December 19, 1975

the davidsonian

Former Cat Star George Weicker - Pete Goodman doing what he does best in last year's baseball action.

Parker observes from stands
Cat Grapplers crush Bears;

Early bouts decide match

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer ©

Last Friday night the Davidson wrestling team began its regular season for the first time in forty years without Coach
Charlie Parker on the bench.

With Coach Parker watching from the stands, though, the Wildcat Grapplers put together a string of five consecutive victories to
build an insurmountable 27-5 lead over the Livingstone College Bears, who were unable to catch up and ended up losing
to the Wildcats 27-19.

The Cats started the match with a 6-0 lead as Ted Mumby won by forfeit in the 118-pound class. In
the 126-pound bout, Brian Jacobs lost the decision to a wrestler who pinned him in last year’s Davidson-Livingstone contest.

Jacobs was the last Davidson wrestler to lose until the 177-pound class. Glenn Ballard began the string of victories with
a 5-3 decision, and freshman Pat Dulany added three more points to the scoreboard with his 11-6 triumph.

In the 150-pound bout, Mark Scandling pinned his opponent early in the third period; this pin was worth six team
points and put the Cats out in front 18-5.

Bob Price, wrestling after only a week of practice, hung on to win his match 9-6. Senior Ralph Holloway, who
was winning by points in the 167-pound match, was given the contest when his opponent was forced to default due
to severe leg cramps. This victory secured the match for the Wildcats, for even with three matches still to be
wrestled there was not any way the Cats could lose.

Rader pleased

Rader was “extremely pleased with the performance of his lower and middle weight wrestlers” and he felt “the strength of
the team was indicated by the fact that the match was won after only seven bouts.”

Livingstone took the final three matches of the evening as Scott Phillips, Ray Berberick, and Jack Summe were all defeated
by their Bear opponents. Rader was not too upset with his upper weight men because, as he said, “Livingstone was
strongest in their upper weights;” he added, though, that “he hoped for some improvement by his big men in upcoming
matches.”

The Grapplers now face a one-month layoff over the Christmas break. Their next match is not until January 17, when
they must face VMI, Elon, and The Citadel in a four-way meet.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

Former star Weicker returns from majors

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

Former Davidson College standout athlete George Weicker returned to his alma mater this past weekend to visit old friends and
teammates after finishing his first term of graduate school in education at Johns Hopkins University.

Weicker was a two-sport star last year for the Wildcats, playing linebacker in football and making First Team Coaches All-America
as designated hitter in baseball, and is currently playing in the Cincinnati Reds’ farm system after signing as a free
agent following graduation last spring.

The credentials that earned Weicker his All-American berth were outstanding: .452 batting average—2nd in the NCAA, 10 home runs, 44
runs batted in, MVP for Davidson and MVP in the Southern Conference.

Strangely he was not drafted by a major league team. “I was a little surprised,” he mused, “but all I
wanted was a chance to play professional ball and I got it. I was just glad to sign as a
free agent, although a big bonus would have been nice.”

Sights set on majors

During his visit, Weicker indicated that his career in professional baseball has gotten off to a fine start; he reported
to the Reds’ Class A rookie league team in Billings, Montana in June 1975, and left in August having finished
the season with a .311 batting average, tops for his team, and had 7 home runs, 50 runs batted in,
and a Pioneer League record of 24 doubles.

His home run total placed him second among all league players, and his .311 batting average put him in sixth
place. He was also named Most Valuable Player for his team.

As a result of his strong performance, Weicker will report to Cincinnati’s spring training camp in Tampa, Florida the first
week in March. Before he goes, however, he will spend six weeks at Davidson working out with Palmer Meunch’s Wildcat
baseball team. “I am doing this primarily to get in top shape before I report, but I also hope to
coach a little and help out the hitters.”

When asked about the level of competition in professional baseball, Weicker stated, “I really was not overly impressed or awed
by the players I played with or against. The pitching was somewhat better than I had seen in college, and
there were some talented individuals, but I surely did not feel outclassed.”

Most Valuable Player

It is obvious when talking with “Quasar,” as he is called by his former teammates, that his sights are set
on the major leagues. He is patient about the future, however, and he appears willing to work his way up
through the minor league system.

“I hope to be playing with the Reds’ number one A division team this coming summer and then with their
AAA team the next year,” he added.

“There are a lot of good young players in the minor leagues, and I may just have to wait for
my chance. The whole system is geared to weeding out people who don’t want it badly enough. We will just
have to see what happens.”

THE SHOP
Authorized Dealer
RCA Service and Sales

MOORESVILLE

Come Browse
and
Our Campus Dress-Ups
and Jeans

Only 6 miles north
