May 2, 1975 The Davidsonian Seven

“Anything Goes” Effervescent Cast

By FRANCIS TOWNSEND
Staff Writer

Last night, an effervescent cast offered a sparkling first night performance of Cole Porter's musical comedy, "Anything Goes." The show, first produced in 1934, relies on the traditional theme of mistaken identity for its comic effect. Billy Crocker (Steve Pharr), in order to foil the marriage of Hope Harcourt (Jeanie Hall), an old girlfriend and true love, with Sir Evelyn Oakleigh (James Freed), accompanies the pair on a trip (on the S.S. American) to England where they are to be married.

Public Enemy Number 1

To gain admittance to the ship he obtains a ticket and passport from Moonface Martin (Hal McCoy) and Bonnie (Marian Stanley). Little does he know that the ticket and passport belong to public enemy number 1, Snake-eyes Johnson. Reno Sweeny, manager of a group of chorus girls "the Angels," helps "Snake-eyes" in his scheme, and becomes attracted to Sir Evelyn Oakleigh. As the plot unravels itself, through the machinations of Moonface and Reno, the marriage between Sir Evelyn and Hope is called off. Finally, Billy and Hope, Reno and Sir Evelyn are married as the last scene ends.

Surprising Performances

The play offers surprises both from the veterans and the newcomers of the Davidson stage. As always, Patsy Arnold’s acting combines moxie with an element of ingeniousness, although as Reno the ingenue is well concealed. Playing the role which Ethel Merman originated in 1934, Patsy shows in songs like "Blow, Gabriel, Blow," that she too can belt out a song.

Playing one of the lead roles along with Patsy, Steve Pharr, although a newcomer to the Davidson stage, delivers a skillfully resolved performance as Billy Crocker. In songs such as "All Through the Night," sung with Jeannie Hall, Pharr shows himself to be a fine singer as well as actor. In both songs he exhibits an unanticipatedly high degree of effortless control.

Two other surprises in the show are Jim Freed and Marian Stanley who excel as character types in the play—as the naive Englishman, Sir Evelyn Oakleigh, and the floozyish Bonnie. Miss Stanley also shows considerable ability as a dancer in a number such as "Heaven Hop." Hal McCoy, who plays opposite her as Moonface, delivers his traditionally superbly timed and angular performance, and gives an equally well-done rendition of "Be Like the Bluebird."

Great Scenes

As a whole, the musical comes off smoothly. Jim Freed and Joseph Gardner’s versatile set account for a lot of the smoothness as well as Linda Mallonee and Nancy Gardner’s choreography and staging of the musical scenes. However, at times there seemed to be difficulties with the numbers sung by the whole chorus, which was often hardly heard above the already pianissimo orchestra, or just downright unintelligible. This is the major fault which shouldbe corrected. In some respects, the success of the musical was surprising, while in other areas, it was anticipated. Many observers have long held that director Rupert Barber’s talent lies in his ability to deal effectively with the larger units of dramatic function, primarily the scene. Dr. Barber especially has the capacity to abstract from a scene its value and meaning as a self-contained unit. Thus, he often uses visual, kinetic, and other principles within its own limits.

A musical success
This technique can be unfortunate since it sometimes tends to obscure nuances of detail and fragment the overall structure of a play. Yet in musical comedy, where the plot structure is episodic and a sense of the spectacular is demanded, Dr. Barber’s special qualities as a director are ideal. In ‘Anything Goes’ this is evident. The musical is a glittering array of brilliantly performed scenes punctuated by show-stopping production numbers. Yet, as hinted above, for other reasons, the show’s success came as a surprise. Because of several considerations, the musical may be one of the hardest theatrical genres. Virtually all the performers must be able to sing and dance as well as act, and generally need to be acrobatic as well. In a school as small as Davidson, where a student production has such limited resources, it is amazing that talent and enthusiasm were found in the necessary amounts to make the production of ‘Anything Goes’ possible. For this reason alone, the dedication and determination of all involved should be applauded.

In addition, it came to the attention of this critic that the show was produced entirely through the resources of the Drama department. In other words, whether because of lack of invitation or lack of willingness, no department musical assistance was involved. For whatever reason, this is a sad thing in a show which is essentially made of 36 singers and eleven instrumental musicians.

Cooperation
Were it not for the kind assistance of Mr. Michael Pittard, choral director at North Mecklenburg High School, the show would evidently have been without a director. At any rate, in a college community as small as Davidson, any ambitious artistic effort cannot merely be for the community, but it must be the community. So, when the Drama department undertakes to produce a large-scale musical comedy, it seems to me that no one in any camp should object to the Music department offering some needed manpower. If the chorus and wind ensemble set aside Handel and Mozart for a month or two in order to indulge in a little Cole Porter, no harm could come of it, and the experience could be rewarding for all.

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE DRAMA DEPARTMENT announces its FABULOUS spring musical excursion on the SS AMERICAN

Box 26576
Charlotte 28213

BE A STOCKBROKER
Have your own office & sales force
Make $26,880 per year
Write for FREE BROCHURE with full details
Frank DeFelice, Ph.D., Inc.
Business & Liberal Arts Majors