March 13, 1975  
The Davidsonian

Seven  
(Photo by Pete Goodman)

Spring Is Here

Relief pitcher Joe Duncan hurled in the first game of the Cats' doubleheader against the University of Connecticut. Davidson lost both games, the first 10-1, the second 9-1.

Team Falls Twice In Double Header  
By BILL LLOYD  
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Baseball team extended its losing streak to 4 Tuesday with a doubleheader defeat to the University of Connecticut. The scores were 10-1 and 9-1 respectively. The Wildcats have been forced to play in poor weather for their first four games, the first being a doubleheader against Marietta College last Saturday.

“Of course I am disappointed, but with our personnel I am still optimistic for a winning season,” commented first-year Wildcat baseball coach Junior Wade.

In Davidson’s first loss to Marietta, the losing pitchers were sophomore Tim Barr and junior Joel Tew. Connecticut came into Tuesday’s game with a strong showing in a double-header win over Washington and Lee University with scores of 16-0 and 4-0. Connecticut was well-coached and was impressive at the plate. They are one of the top-ranked teams in their conference.

Several Wildcats made good showings against Connecticut despite the generally lackluster play of Davidson. The Cats hope to capitalize on this when they face Appalachian on Monday. Sophomore Jim Yearwood contributed a home run down the left field line late in the first game to provide the Cats' only run. In the second game of the doubleheader, freshman third baseman Dale Horner scored on senior George Weicker’s double to provide that game’s only Wildcat score.

Several other players have shown that Davidson is still a viable opponent in the conference. Among them are senior catcher Mark Rodgeman, senior shortstop Gary Pomeroy, and Weicker. “Weicker has shown that he has the good stick and it looks like he is starting to connect,” stated one Wildcat player.

Pitching seems to be the position that could make or break Davidson’s chances for a successful season. Tew, seniors Dwight Plemmons and Joe Duncan, and Barr all show promise. Defensively, the Cats were plagued with errors which hopefully can be corrected as the season continues.

Davidson’s problems did not end with Connecticut’s hitting and the foul weather. During the game, someone slid into the locker room and after rifling through the players’ wallets, made off with an undetermined amount of cash.

C-III Takes B League Title  
By CAPTAIN AMERICA and YOUNGBUCK

This week’s IMAC column is brought to you courtesy of the Kingdom of Ferdinia, that tiny isolated island off beautiful Lake Norman located close enough to the eighth wonder of the ancient world, the port city of Moorseville.

Wrapping up last winter’s IMAC Events: basketball tournament action is the only thing we have to report, as many minor events (i.e. handball, paddleball, ping-pong, etc.) were not completed as of the end of the term. Wrestling, that fantastic mass of murky flesh which orgasmically holds for 3 days, was not held due to lack of the all-powerful gym-god’s time.

Anyway, in the secondary B league tourney where all is supposed to be for fun, mixed-up (oh sure guys!) C-III won the whole ball of toilet paper as they crushed the Tennis Bums, another A league team, in the finale.

Bowie’s law: Any team that has 2 guys or more that can dunk...will never be allowed in B league. I take it that one of those things for C-III was not a guy then on C-III? Anyway, congrats for nothing except a fast one. The Bums finished second, showing once again player-coach Jeff (Golden-Wheels) Frank’s inability to get his team up for the big one. Ummm, definitely symbolism there, Wheels.

In the awe-inspiring A league tourney, I Felta Thi took a hard-fought decision on Feb. 23 to defeat the Gozinyas 69-62. The Gozinyas made it a winner-take-all affair as they whipped the This 62-52 that very afternoon. The This were kept in the game by Ken Schmader until the end when they pulled away with help from Kirk Combe and an outstanding effort by Larry Urbon. The Gozinyas finished second, led by All-everything the Stick and Mike Whalen, while Chris Young showed when he is hot no one in IMAC can stop him. Taking third in the tourney were the Tribe, led by Chico and The Man (Rodgeman, that is). Fourth place went to the Delts, who had one of their best teams in recent years, led by the strong inside play of Mark Wilfley.

C.A.&Y.B.’s squad includes Schmader and Combe from the Thi’s, Peyton Prospere of SAE number 1, Marty Williamson and Mike Whalen of the Gozinyas, Joan Sanchez and Mark Rodgeman of the Indians, and Wilfley of Delt number 1. Compliments are in order for Bowie (Bryan Andrews) for a well-run tourney and season, despite the hassle for gym-time and decent referees.

Chip Stone
Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

All-tourney IFT Wins B-ball Immortality should be commended for his help in reffing, but Jesus, how the hell can you find the guy to commend him? Spring will bring us warmth, brew, and softball along with minor events. But lo, beware professors bearing false gifts ’cause it ain’t nothing but a trick. Well, writing this over break was o.k. ’cause for those of you who ain’t never seen it, this place ain’t half bad when you ain’t got to deal with the turkies over in god-awful Chambers. (Note the affected grammatical ineptness, calculated to show deeply-rooted disdain and hostility with regards to aforementioned turkies). So stay out of there as much as you can, and things will not be so rotten. Make the beach and attend ABC Wide World of Sports coverage of the Ferdina Invitational Frisbee diving championships held this spring. See your favorites Oslo Bjorn, Ivan Yakanoff, and other outstanding professionals. Admission is that you find this place. Until our paths cross in the stars (Dr. P. this is for you), blow it out your shorts and may Conan wreak havoc upon extended studies forever. (Ed. note: Amen.)

Holiday See Rink
Ridge Avenue
Concord, N.C.
PHONE 782-9028

Saturday 2-5 P.M.
7-10 P.M.
2-5 P.M.
7-10 P.M.

JOIN OUR SKATING CLASSES NOW! Call 7-10 P.M. to ENROLL.