April 10, 1975

The Davidsonian

Three

Freshmen admissions dictate changes in housing policies

Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White is anticipating a freshmen class of 110 women and 257 men next year as opposed to the planned 92 women and 270 men in the Class of ’79. White informed Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls of the change Good Friday evening. As a result of the deviation from the projected male/female ratio, Nicholls has proposed several plans for on-campus housing next year.

One floor in Sentelle Dormitory will go to upperclass women and one upperclass women’s floor in Little Dormitory will be used for freshmen women next year, according to Nicholls. “I would like it better if I didn’t have to make anyone move out of his room, particularly the rising seniors in Sentelle, but there is no alternative that I can see,” said Nicholls. “If we hadn’t had the increase in freshmen women, I wouldn’t have had to use fourth floor Sentelle.”

Ten women will be housed in the basement of Carnegie Building, 49 will be housed on fourth floor Belk, and 29 on fourth floor Sentelle. The remainder will live on one of three upper floors in Little Dormitory, the freshmen women’s Watts Dormitory, or in off-campus housing.

The housing situation is tight again this year, and Nicholls predicted an equal amount of confusion next year as students attempt to find housing. “There are still places available off campus. However, except for women, I have quit encouraging them to make arrangements off campus,” said Nicholls. She indicated that not everyone who had requested an on-campus room had received one. “I couldn’t operate if everyone who wanted a room got one in April. I expect about the same number as last year to be without rooms,” said Nicholls. “But no matter how tight it seems to be, I always have empty beds left in the fall. Whoever or whatever is up there watching over Davidson seems to take care of that,” Nicholls added.

“A few women will not get room assignments this spring. They’re going to be treated just like the males. I’m playing it a lot closer to the chest this year,” said Nicholls. “The best situation for a girl living off campus is to rent a room in someone’s house. This is a more practical arrangement for a girl than for a male, but the people in the town don’t seem to want girls. I think that’s just because for so many years we’ve been so male-student oriented,” Nicholls said.

The housing director expects no changes in the composition of Duke and Belk Dormitories. “We have two prime pieces of real estate on this campus, Duke Dormitory and fourth floor Belk,” Nicholls continued. “Since the majority of the campus is male, I think they should have Duke. With the girls in Belk, I think it’s the only way to do it from the standpoint of equity,” Nicholls said.

Freshmen males will occupy all of Cannon and all but the basement of Richardson, according to Nicholls.

ROTC calls for student help in blood drive

The Red Cross Bloodmobile will make its annual spring visit to the Davidson community on Thursday, April 24, according to Captain William L. De Vaughn of the Davidson College ROTC Department and Bob Corlew, student coordinator of the drive.

“Giving blood takes a little time and we will be more than happy to accommodate those persons on tight schedules to assure that they are processed as quickly as possible,” said De Vaughn.

The Red Cross requires Davidson to provide 435 pints of blood each year in order to maintain blanket coverage for the college community. In the fall we were able to exceed our quota of 218 pints, receiving 243. “Our fall drive was the most successful single day blood drive ever at Davidson,” said De Vaughn. De Vaughn expressed hope that more people not affiliated with the college would participate in the drive this spring. “We had a large number in the fall, but not as many as we would like,” he said.

The drive will be held in Chambers Building from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. “The quota for this drive is 192 pints. This is lower than in previous years because our fall drive was so successful,” Corlew said.

The Red Cross provides free blood coverage to all persons who donate blood, and to their immediate families, for one year after donation. This drive is sponsored by the local chapter.of Scabbard and Blade, the national military honor society.

College Union reschedules Spring Frolics
Havens highlights program

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. Features Editor

Richie Havens will be featured on Saturday night, April 26, in Love Auditorium during Spring Frolics, according to Russ Kushigian, Asst. Director of the Union. Don McLean will perform in concert on Friday night, April 25, the Union spokesman said. The Kinks, a British rock group, will not be performing here during Spring Frolics as previously reported.

“The Kinks’ whole show and equipment won’t fit into Love Auditorium. We had assumed their show would fit, before further investigation,” Kushigian said. “We really need student support because of the nature of the groups,” said Marc Menchel, social council chairman for the Union. “Without student support we would have to go out into the Mecklenburg community,” he added. “We also want student help in putting up these shows,” he said.

The Union will sponsor a dance following the Havens concert with ‘Appleton’ as the band. “Lady Sings the Blues” will be shown after McLean’s performance on Friday night. Saturday afternoon, a beer blast will be held on the soccer field. A band, “The Catalinas,” will play during these festivities. “Long rolls of paper and paint will be supplied by the Union for a ‘graffiti session’ at the beer blast,” said Pat Hudson, co-curricular council chairman for the Union.

“I predict that weekend will be one of the best Spring Frolics since I’ve been here,” said Hudson.

Senate returns funding for counseling program

By MARK GERGEN
Copy Editor

The SGA Senate passed a resolution 15-0-1 returning $2000 given to the Senate by the college plus $1000 more to hire Dr. Meredith Hall for a day of counseling. “The other $1000 comes from an anonymous gift the Senate received for counseling.” The resolution was tabled last week.

The Senate also approved the new campus tax allocations 15-0-2. Bo Hunter stated that 6,000 dollars had to be trimmed from the budget, but no organization got less than they felt they could function with.

In other actions, Bob Husbands reported on the Educational Policy Committee and Hunter reported on the recommendation of the Year-Round Calendar Committee. The committee report recommends that the college not go to year-round operations, but it did suggest looking into other possibilities. George Reedy and Rick Roylance were absent. It was the second meeting Reedy has missed, and the first at which Roylance was not present.

Union finances off

(Continued from page 1)

“Better organized now, we are interested in starting a system of cosigning checks and authorization slips,” commented Wassen. “I am sure the system of cosigning checks would work well if students who are authorized to sign checks act responsibly. For sure, under such a system, the students would have ample opportunity to make themselves fully aware of how much money was leaving the Union account and for what purpose checks were being written,” Davidson said.

Although several members of the Union Board criticize Smith for being away from Davidson too often, Wassen feels that “Shaw’s travels are an extension of his position. In his position as president of the ACU-I, I feel his travels and the contacts he has developed have contributed greatly to our Union programming. The latter part of last year and much of this year have been full of long trips and much traveling for Shaw. I don’t really anticipate this will continue since his responsibilities in the ACU-I will be declining considerably in several weeks,” said Davidson. “I surely look forward to the day when Shaw steps down as president of the ACU-I. You know he’s gone on a two-week trip—right during the main period of planning for Spring Frolics,” remarked one Union Board member.

The Communications Department Art Contest entries must be in by April 25. The prize is $50 for the best sketch of a campus scene appropriate to use on next year’s college Christmas card. Stop by the Communications Office (135 Chambers) if you have any questions.