the davidsonian

October 31, 1975

—10

Schmader to assist

Janaro assumes position as new girls’ cage coach

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

Mrs. Rosa Lee Janaro, the wife of Wildcat assistant football coach Phillip Janaro, has been named head coach of the Davidson girls’ basketball team.

Mrs. Janaro has had no coaching experience, but played for a couple of years at the Philadelphia College of the Bible.

Last year the team was coached by three Davidson students, Joe Duncan, Ken Schmader, and Charlie Slagle, but under the rules of the North Carolina Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women, the head coach must not be a student.

The Wildcattes were almost put on probation at the end of last season, but were spared under the condition that a non-student coach be hired.

Schmader, who will help the team again this year, expressed displeasure with the handling of the situation by Dr. Thomas Cartmill, the Athletic Director.

“Dr. Cartmill told me last spring that he had several candidates in mind, and that a coach would be hired shortly after the end of school,” said Schmader.

“When I returned to Davidson this year, no one had been hired yet. He said he was still looking into some possibilities.” About three weeks later, Cartmill admitted to Schmader that he had no one in mind. “He asked for my suggestions,” said Schmader.

Mrs. Janaro was hired shortly thereafter. Schmader will handle the technical aspects of coaching, since he is familiar with the team and its offensive and defensive patterns from last year, but Mrs. Janaro made it clear that she is the boss.

“I’ll be in complete charge,” she said. “Ken will run the drills at practice, but under my supervision. We do not want any more trouble from the NCAIAW.”

The girls will officially begin practicing on November 10, the earliest starting date under NCAIAW rules. Schmader sees that as an advantage for schools on a semester schedule.

“Those schools will miss only a few days for Thanksgiving,” he said, “but we can practice only a week before exams come up, followed by a week vacation. That leaves us less than a week after we return to prepare for our first game.”

The girls will be sharing gym time with IMAC and the boys’ team, which has already begun workouts. The guys will use the floor in the afternoons, while IMAC has reserved the nighttime slots.

The girls, therefore, will practice from 5:00 to 7:00 PM each weekday.

By VIC McMILLAN
Staff Writer

Davidson Rugby Football Club was dealt another defeat this weekend by the Hampden-Sydney ruggers.

The teams were well-matched, with Hampden-Sydney outlasting the ’Cats for a 10-6 victory.

The first try put Davidson ahead, as Mike Stick touched it down for the ’Cats. John Lovett pounded through the Hampden-Sydney defense leading to that score.

But Hampden-Sydney came back to tie the game at 6-6 before the first half ended.

WOODSHED

1105 NORTH MAIN STREET

LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT

MOORESVILLE

HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8-9

DRAFT $.15

WEDNESDAY

WED NITE IS BEER NITE~ COVER $1.00

DRAFT $.25 CANS $.35

THURSDAY

COVER $1.00

FRIDAY

COVER $2.00 (LADIES FREE)

SATURDAY

COVER $2.50

“Catchow”: Wildcat defenders snare a Hampden-Sydney running back in last Saturday’s game.

Ruggers drop 10-6 decision, Begin 3-game home stand

Another try early in the second half put Hampden-Sydney ahead to stay.

Davidson missed several opportunities to score late in the game, largely due to injury and fatigue. Most notably, Mark Connors, Southern Conference 440-yard champion, raced 50 yards before being dragged down just short of the try line.

Defensively the ’Cats played soundly with Lovett and Paul Henschen excelling at the wing forward positions.

Three home games await the Davidson ruggers after a long road season. Wake Forest University, Camp Lejeune, and UNC-Chapel Hill will meet the ’Cats in Davidson the final three weekends of the term.

Booters lose

(continued from page 9)

Barringer, “but I kicked it poorly. It just happened to go in.”

Belmont Abbey tied the game quickly. Perz stopped a shot but could not hold on, and the rebound was booted in. The first half ended with the score 1-1.

Blackwood got the Cats off quickly in the second half as he placed a perfect shot into the corner of the net, with a beautiful assist from Joe Duncan.

About midway through the period, Belmont Abbey scored when a wing got by the Davidson defense, caught Perz off balance and slipped a shot by him. Another breakaway gave Belmont Abbey a 3-2 lead.

Patton tied it up for the Cats when he headed in a corner kick, but a defensive lapse cost the Cats the game. The ball was in front of the Davidson goal and Perz hesitated before going after it, just long enough to have it blooped over his head.

“Our mental errors were the difference in the game,” said Barringer. “We played very well, but a few mistakes cost us.”

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.