March 27, 1975

The Davidsonian

Seven

Cat runners race to first season win

By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

Davidson finished with 69 points to edge High Point’s 67 total. Wake Forest came in 3rd with 56.

Appalachian’s depth spelled the difference in the opening meet on Saturday. They took 10 firsts and 16 seconds in the
19 events, while Davidson grabbed 9 firsts but fell short.

The Davidson track team opened its 1975 season this past week with two home meets in four days. The Wildcats
fell to a strong Appalachian team, 99 to 64, on Saturday, but came back on Tuesday to win a triangular
meet with High Point and Wake Forest.

Splish-splash — Pete Goodman

John Stanfield, leading the pack, sets the pace for Buck Farrow, just clearing the steeplechase hurdle.

The Prelaw Committee will be publishing a Prelaw Handbook for Davidson students this summer, and the position of editor is
available. Requirements: junior or senior student who plans to enter law school and has interests in a legal career; ability
to write well; reside in or near Davidson for a portion of the summer. The job is expected to take
approximately six weeks but may be handled as a part-time job during the entire summer. Honorarium of $500 will be
paid.

Apply in writing by April 1, 1975 to Professor R. L. Avinger. Application should be a written statement, not to
exceed one typewritten double-spaced page, in which the applicant’s writing ability, interests, and other relevant capabilities are demonstrated. This should
be a unique opportunity for the serious prelaw or law student.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north

The field events were the backbone of Davidson’s strength in the meet, providing 36 points in eight events, while only
28 points accrued from the 11 running events.

Reggie Harding was Davidson’s only double winner, taking both the long and triple jumps. Woody Van Meter won the pole
vault, while Eppa Rixey jumped 6’4” to capture the high jump.

Jeff Diller and Allen Schaberg carried the load in the weight events, with Diller winning the hammer and placing 2nd
in the shot. Schaberg took 2nd in the discus and 3rd in both the shot and hammer.

Mark Connors won the 440 in 50.3 seconds and placed 2nd in the 220. He also anchored the winning mile
relay team which came from behind to win in Dick Bechner’s second leg.

Bechner also won the 880 in 1:58.5, while Greg Love, despite only three days of practice, took the high hurdles
in 14.9 seconds.

On Tuesday it was again Davidson’s performance in the field events which led the way. In fact, over half of
their points were scored in just two events, with new school records being set in each.

Van Meter cleared 14’3” in the pole vault to better his old mark of 14’. Davidson also took 3rd and
4th in that event. Rixey broke his own record in the high jump with a leap of 6’5½” to lead
a 1-2-3 sweep there.

John Stanfield won the javelin and placed 2nd in the high jump, while Harding took a second and third in
the long and triple jumps.

In the seven field events, Davidson outscored High Point and Wake Forest 35-15-27, but managed only 34 points in the
11 running events to High Point’s 52 and Wake Forest’s 27.

Buck Farrow recorded his first Davidson win in the steeplechase, after “Bozo” Bill Cole had performed a swan dive into
the water jump on the first lap.

Connors took first in both the 100 and 220, and brought home the baton in the mile relay for a
2nd place finish which sealed the meet victory.

Davidson travels to Richmond Saturday for a meet on their new $250,000 track. Richmond has 5 assistant track coaches, which
gives some indication of the stiff competition the Cats must face. On Thursday, the team again hits the road for
a meet with Catawba and Campbell Colleges.

Authorized Dealer Service and Sales

173 W. Main Street MOORESVILLE

The

Friday, March 28 8 & 10:30 P.M.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

Timothy Bottoms

Paper Chase

$1.00

If sometimes you think your bank has passed you by, or you never hear from them except for a monthly
statement, then it's time to make your move to Piedmont Bank. We offer the full range of services you expect,
but we add that personal touch you can't find in larger banks. Make Piedmont Bank your bank... at Piedmont Bank
and Trust Company.
