Twelve

The Davidsonian

March 20, 1975

Davidson Levels Purdue, 5-3

Behind Monsoon’s Lead

By the Flesheaters,
C.A. and Kung
Staff Writers

Greg Dunn burst onto the tennis scene last week, vanquishing Shane, the Wonder Dog, in a tough three-setter, using his deft drop shot on the damp courts to take the number nine position of the ladder. Shane, when asked about how the match went, replied, “He cheated.”

Meanwhile on the upper courts, Master Mentor Jeff Frank commented on Dunn’s immediate adaptation to his second (skeptics doubt this) sport this year, saying, “He may be big, but he makes up for it with his exceptional stupidity.”

Speaking of low intelligence factors, Poindexter “Chip” Bondurant is currently playing number two for the Cats. When asked to explain how he alleviated his manifestly formidable transmundane tennis opponents, Poindie said, “What? You mean who took the Cruex?”

Amidst the March monsoons, while Dunn was defeating the Golden Retriever in his challenge match, the Cats took on the Purdue Boilermakers in a best of nine scuba diving contest. John Mitchell, suffering from a case of the bends, went under for good in straight sets.

Brian Cooper, representing Davidson in his first intercollegiate match, weathered the storm and his opponents’ legs and won easily at the number five spot. Stewart Boswell, teaming with Grady “the Grinch” Barnhill, took it on the chin at number two doubles. The ever-eloquent Boswell exclaimed as he shook hands with his opponents, “I could hit a bull’s ass with a sack of wheat!”

The deluge continued, as the Rochester and Swarthmore teams were disposed of by hungry barracudas on the upper courts.

Captain Quinby, that walking gelatinous spheroid (as a result of frequent soirees at Hattie’s with court jester, Edward Patten), was disgruntled over the numerous bellyfaults called against him. In response to inquiries concerning his goals for the season, the Gelatinous One belched emphatically, “I want to be just like Coach Frank. You know what I mean—fat.”

Saturday morning the team piloted into Charlotte for their first doubleheader. The Cats herded the Golden Bulls of J.C. Smith, 9-0 as Bondurant took on the responsibility of the Number One Position and won in a long, three-set struggle. Kung rolled at number two.

Boswell, playing singles in this match, rose to the occasion, coming at the net frequently using penetrating volleys and climaxing the match on a thunderous overhead.

For the second half of the Saturday Special, the Netters visited the UNC-C 49ers. After playing their hearts out for the Davidson cause, the scoreboard read Davidson 8, Barnhill 1. The Grinch growled incessantly, but to no avail, as some said his racket was two sizes too small that day.

During the two-day break between matches, the Cats returned to the practice courts to play with the Prince and prepare for the International Push-Up Championships to be held in Petaluma, California. The entire team failed in its attempt to defeat Cooper in a combination tag team push-up and jump-rope contest. Shane indignantly demanded a rematch with C.A. Up-one. Skip, skip.

Massivbuttocks sufficiently psyched the ferocious Cats for the tough match with the Virginia Tech Gobblers. Captain Quinby and Poindie both came from behind to win in their singles. Hollywood John, at number three, reached into the deepest regions of his posterior chambers to hit passing shots never before executed.

Poindie and Captain Kung ruffled a few Gobbler feathers in the doubles, as Coop laid the only golden egg. Ron Ely look-alike, Steve Holman, relying on his innate savage instincts, proved too aggressive for his opponent.

Holman explained to the vacant rows of bleacher seats that his success can be attributed to “my body of tomorrow, today.”

The Grinch scowled and grumbled his way to victory at the number four spot. Explaining the reason for his success, the Grinch snarled, “Nice guys finish last.”

Up-two. Skip, skip.

Tommy came out to practice today. Yawn.

The team members would like to extend their appreciation to the stray dog who showed up for the matches against Purdue and VPI. Keep doing it, dogs. We need all the support we can get. So lay off, Crosswhite.

All joking aside. No, you can stay here, Jeff. Give us the inside scoop on the season so far.

“We’re very pleased with our 4-0 record at this point, especially with three freshmen in the top six. Now, I’d like to focus on the most important factor of our program. Me. Jeff Frank. I was born in a small, rural village—”

“Thanks, Jeff. Later, fuzzball fans.”

Big Discounts!
Save up to $3.00!

Records

(Photo by Pete Goodman)
Crossed Sticks

Whatever you want, we've got

ARMY—NAVY STORE

Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
170 N. Main Mooresville, N.C.
Nat E. Smith Ph. 664-5118

Top artists!
Major labels!

Hundreds of records! Classics included!

Many, many selections in this special purchase.

Sale Starts

Thursday, March 20
Student Store

DON’T MISS THIS SALE!

Come early for best selection!