Eight The Davidsonian January 9, 1975

C.A. & Y.B.: Seek Out Spiritual Peace
By C.A. & Y.B.

Elephants, Pintos, and other wet dreams, eh Connors? California ’75 or how I learned to love Coors: Two all-beef patties,
special sauce, lettuce, cheese, pickles, onions on a sesame seed bun... Got it. And for those of you who think
this place is bad, visit Provo, Utah. People get arrested for driving under the influence of Coca-Cola. Loose women kiss
their husbands on New Year’s Eve. Nelson says Santa doesn’t have any kids because he comes only once a year.
Honestly, Brigham Young makes Davidson seem like excitement plus. BYU is even more intolerant than Davidson. Rumor has it that
they won’t even let blacks be janitors. Do it, Mormons. Turkeys come in all sizes and shapes. So much for
Provo, it's a sick place. We move on to the home of the Wandering Jew, L.A., city of the stars,
don’t you wish that you could be there, too? One if by land, a few by air, and Y.B. on
a corner in Winslow, Arizona with Big Macs on his mind. There is also a car coming through the Arizona
fruit inspection center carrying the world’s largest apple and the ‘Human Beachball.’ The apple made it through but the cops
kept Chris Young and Gopsill.

Rifle Team Takes Sixth Place In Seven-Way Tournament
By GLENN BALLARD
Asst. Managing Editor

The Davidson College Rifle Team shot off to a slow start this season, losing two of their first three matches
in addition to a disappointing sixth-place tournament showing. In the first match of the season, which began in early December,
Davidson participated in a tri-meet with teams from the University of Richmond and William and Mary. The shooting of the
five-man Davidson team “shocked and disappointed” Coach Abel White of the ROTC Department when they hit only a total of
1180 target points out of a possible 1500. This resulted in a loss to both Richmond and William and Mary
by the point spread of 46 and 88 respectively. Nevertheless, White commented confidently that “the team should be shooting in
the 1260’s. They know their potential but they’re just not shooting it; but I’m sure we'll come up soon.”

Women’s B-ball
By DAVID KITCHIN & CLIFF GARDINER
Staff Writers

After dropping the season opener to Furman before a home crowd Dec. 6, the Wildcattes have posted two consecutive road
victories. A Dec. 11 win over Wingate preceded a close victory over Catawba, Dec. 17. Donna Sherrill and Beth Tanner
have shouldered Davidson’s offensive responsibilities, as both have shot well over 50 percent from the floor in the first three
contests. Tanner is a consistent outside threat while Sherrill has proved effective at varied ranges. As a team, Davidson has
connected on 40 percent of their field goal attempts and 46 percent of their free throw shots. Sophomore Katherine Morton,
despite being the shortest starter on Davidson’s front line, has proved to be the team’s premier rebounder, pulling down just
under 10 every game. Davidson will attempt to extend their winning streak to three Friday in Johnston Gymnasium against the
women of Appalachian State.

Indeed, the team did come up twenty points to an even 1200 score on trouncing North Carolina A and T,
who was only able to pull 1108 target points in their dual match on December 14. Several individual members of
the Rifle Team have been plagued by injuries this year. White feels that may have been a serious factor in
the early season competition. One experienced marksman, Craig Crosswhite, tore some ligaments in his leg which will put him out
for some time. Another member of the team, Clark McChesney, came down with a lingering virus which will keep him
out of action until after Christmas. Two members of the team were put out by that common ailment, chronic cases
of bad grades. Despite the many injuries, the team has been able to adjust adequately, and it is well balanced
with solid efforts from every member of the group of top shooters. The top five shooters include senior Bob Anders
with a 250-point average out of a possible 300 along with junior Pete Goodman, who has been shooting in the
same 250-point range, followed by junior Dallas Kirkendall at 245 and Tom Miller at 243. Sophomore Curt Goho is a
regular, and he rounds out the current five-man team. Tom Miller is a strong new addition to the team according
to White, “he is improving at a rapid rate and should be one of the best marksmen on the team
by the end of the year.” The tournament was a large affair with seven teams competing.for the championship which was
won by Appalachian State, one of the top rifle teams in the country. The Davidson team shot a combined score
of 1208, which is their best effort of the year, but they still only managed to place sixth in overall
scoring. In the early two-way meet with Furman, Davidson shot a satisfying 1206, just two points behind their seasonal high,
in taking an easy win.

170 N. Main Nat E. Smith
Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans

PIZZA - LASAGNE - RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI - CHICKEN CACCIATORE
Mooresville, N.C. Ph. 664-5118

for two days quarantine claiming they were the biggest fruits they had ever seen. Where are you San Juan Banana?
He’s getting married, peeled so to speak as he’s going to raise teeny Chiquitas. By the way, what color is
an orange, library rats? L.A. is a big freeway, put a hundred down and buy a car. We spent some
time on the Ventura Freeway trying to remember the words. C.A. continues to travel around the country turning unknown forwards
into All-Americans. Young Buck claims the Albuquerque McDonald's cause the runs. This one just off the wires: Cosmo Cougar (stop)
Wild D. Catt (stop) Is Cosmo really a girl? Only Conners knows for sure. Young Buck almost lost in Disneyland,
the directors kept figuring he was either Dopey, Sleepy, or both.

The basketball team keeps dealing with ch-ch-ch-changes. “We’re from Davidson College.” “Where’s that?” “North Carolina.” “Where’s that?” There is a
place called Wildcat Heaven in the back of the station wagon. Take a six of Coors back there with you
and those mileage signs just fly past. Purgatory in the Pinto for those who haven’t been to confession lately. Dumb
as an oyster and they know nothing. Ralph Drollinger plans to have a movie career after he graduates. He’s going
to be a stand-in for Godzilla. Meanwhile, Dave Myers plans on doing acne commercials forever. This guy is a walking
Stridex failure. His scholarship is sponsored by Clearasil. He got in an ice pick fight and someone gave him an
ice pick. Notice the bitterness on C.A.’s part. If he ever sees this, Wetzel wrote it. C.A. to Witz. What
is that palm print doing on the top of the board? Witz? Witz?? C.A.’s autobiography’s title: I Puke in Pauley.
Nobody foreguards Dave Myers, that last guy who did hasn’t eaten since. Please Winston don’t show this to Mr. Myers
please.

Up the oil-slicked coast to Santa Barbara to play the Gauchos. The what? Areba? High school gym, queer male cheerleader
in hot pants and female cheerleaders that do so many splits they stick to the floor. Brickey drop kicks a
table, some clown yells “that’s state property,” and the table sails wide to the left. Pack up the gear; our
cheerleaders were outstanding, better than watching usual dip, they got standing O’s. Bender still crushing Gulf Oil, he does their
income tax, Jesus!? Forty-eight hours straight on the road: did good weather until N.C. where it started to get crappy
again. Let’s turn around and go back. The cops surround our ass at the P.O. while Chris is kissing the
birth of Christian tenure. Never could believe that garbage. We leave you with the immortal words of Ronald McDonald “You
deserve a break today.” Blow that out your sesame seed buns.

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Prescriptions Filled
206 N. Main
Glasses Repaired
Glasses Adjusted

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach
and New Bern. 28th season. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities (including skindiving and golf
course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who
are LOOKING FOR MORE than “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 10-August 22. We seek highly qualified
(ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer good
salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of
a letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of camp program in
which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.
