November 14, 1975

The Davidsonian

Women criticize Cartmill claim slow athletic buildup

By JAMIE KOLODITCH
Staff Writer

Davidson College Director of Athletics Thomas A. Cartmill denies charges that the athletic department has been dragging its feet in building the women’s athletic program. The major controversy concerns the women’s basketball program. Members of the women’s basketball squad have complained that the athletic department made little effort to find a suitable coach for the coed squad.

“We asked Mr. Cartmill to find us a coach immediately after the state tournament last year, and were assured that they would do their best.”

Rosa Lee Janaro was appointed last week as temporary head coach of the girls’ basketball team. She has played college basketball, but she has had no coaching experience. The players question the wisdom of this temporary appointment.

“This (the temporary appointment) means that the team will have played under four different coaches in four years. It seems wrong to have to adjust to a coach now, only to have to adjust to a new coach next year, especially since we now have a winning team.”

Cartmill explained that it was a matter of expediency. “It was necessary to find a temporary coach in order to satisfy the requirements of the women’s athletic association. We could not hire a permanent coach because the administration had not programmed one for the purpose.

“We did our best to find a suitable coach. We had located a highly qualified temporary coach during the summer, but she was then offered a permanent position at another institution.”

Cartmill realized the girls’ concern at having a different coaching arrangement every year, but pointed out that hiring is a prerogative of the administration. “No one wants a full-time coach as much as I do. We have done everything possible in this regard.”

As to practicing time for the team, Cartmill said that the women’s team had second priority in gym time.

In regard to the women’s athletic program as a whole, Mr. Cartmill feels that everything possible is being done to build a sound program.

“A lot of times people don’t realize that we want these things as much as the students. The budget for women’s basketball has been quadrupled from that of last year, and the tennis budget has been doubled.

“In addition, we have acquired the equipment for the establishment of a field hockey team, which is now at the club level.”

The appropriations for the building of the women’s program hinge on student interest in such matters. An appropriation cannot be made until such appropriation has been requested by the department involved.

Patricia Drake, head of women’s athletics, expressed satisfaction with the responsiveness of the athletic department to the needs and desires of the coeds.

Annual Fund
(Continued from page 1)

“It is difficult to do a fund each year in this fashion without sounding repetitious. In raising money for something new like the Little Library you can focus attention and excitement on the facility. But before we have even raised the Annual Fund money, the college has already budgeted and spent the money.

“I interviewed a great number of people for this position since last May,” continued Williams, “and Tom was one of the youngest ones. I found that he has an unusual dedication and commitment to the college. He can write clearly and concisely and is a very orderly type person. He designed and implemented a central purchasing system for the city of Lenoir. He knows how to deal with people and can speak well.”

Speaking on the jump in this year’s Annual Fund goal, Bernhardt said, “I think it’s a very realistic goal and I don’t see any problems in reaching and hopefully exceeding it. It’s just a matter

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL
1/4 POUND SWISS BURGER - LETTUCE & TOMATO
FRENCH FRIES
SMALL PEPSI
$1.00
FRIDAY NOV. 14 - THURSDAY NOV. 20of long hours and saying the right things to the right people. "I think it’s important that Zack Long and I make all of the alumni feel that they are a part of this campus. So much of Davidson’s reputation is based on what alumni have done. This year I want to put special emphasis on the recent grads, say within the last ten years. I also want to work with seniors so that instead of thinking of us as just wanting money from them when they leave, they can still feel that they are a part of the school. I know that I scoffed at the Update when I was a student, but as an alumni it is something you look forward to reading—cover to cover. In it are the names you recognize, the places you remember. It’s a very important part of alumni relations."

Exam procedure

The college calendar calls for exams to be taken Nov. 21, 22, 24, 25. Not all professors use the self-scheduled procedures described here, so each student should determine definitely the exam arrangements for each course. If self-scheduled procedures are used then the following instructions apply.

The examination envelopes turned in earlier in the week will be available to you during each examination session on Nov. 21, 22, 24, 25. You do not need to specify in advance when you will write a particular exam. Go to Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions and ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student’s name. The yellow-bordered card will be detached and retained by the examination staff. Go to any classroom in Chambers Building and write the exam; please note that room 310 in Chambers is to be used exclusively by students authorized by the professor to use tables, charts, etc. The envelope, with red-bordered card still attached and containing the questions and your answers, may be returned to the examination center as early as 9:45 for the morning and 2:45 for the afternoon and must be returned before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning and 5:15 for the afternoon. The honor pledge must be signed at the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The yellow-bordered card, now receipted by the examination center, will be given to you; hold that card until a grade for the course is received; in case of any irregularity it is your evidence that you turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials.

The college will continue to use the Student Instruction Report as an instrument of course evaluation. You will receive one from each of your professors. Please complete it and remember that you must turn it in when you get your exam envelope at the Examination Center in Chambers Banquet Hall (or at the Registrar’s Office if you have a professor-administered exam). In the past, a good many evaluations have been invalid because of inadequate course identification. To aid this, you are requested to see to it that full identification of department, course number, and section are entered on the upper right corner of each sheet. Professor’s name and student’s name are not needed.

Registrar Richard C. Burts said, "Our continuing concern for the Honor System and the attendant strains on it occasioned by self-scheduled exams justify our soliciting continuing student support for the Honor System."

COUNSELING
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS