April 3, 1975 The Davidsonian Seven

Rheinberger organizes intense sounds

By CARL SCHWARTZ Staff Writer

Josef Gabriel Rheinberger (1839-1901) was one of the more prolific composers of the nineteenth century. He was a native of
Liechtenstein and spent most of his life teaching at the conservatory in Munich where his many students included Horatio Parker,
a well-known if not terribly outstanding American composer. Rheinberger’s music has enjoyed some popularity, mostly in Europe. His twenty Organ
Sonatas were the craze during the early part of this century and are still occasionally heard today. There have been
many judgments made about this composer’s music; right now the scales are tipped against him due to the general anti-romantic
sentiment in music circles prevalent for the last quarter of a century or so. There can be no doubt that
he is overshadowed by his famous contemporaries, Brahms and Wagner. His music is far less intense and shares the easy-going
sounds native to southern Germany so typical of Johann Strauss.

Rheinberger was capable of one thing that eluded his contemporaries: he understood the organ well enough to join its forces
with the orchestra. While both are allowed to shine out in individual splendor, they complement each other perfectly. Only a
handful of composers have been able to achieve this: Haydn who created the classical Organ Concerto, Mozart who perfected it,
Rheinberger who adapted it to romantic ends, and in the twentieth century, Joseph Jongen whose Symphonic Concertante has been hailed
as a masterpiece by many.

E. Power Biggs, the Columbia Symphony and conductor Maurice Peress have joined forces in a new Columbia recording (M-32297) featuring
both of Rheinberger’s concerti, one in F major for Organ, String Orchestra and Horns (Opus 137, 1884) and the other
in G minor adding trumpets and tympani to the orchestral forces (Opus 177, 1894). The works are built in a
traditional fashion, with a serious but energetic introductory movement. A gentle Andante which builds to a fortissimo and dies away
again serves as an elegant second movement and the final movements, both marked “con moto”, polish off the pieces with
gusto. The themes, while contrasting, always have a lyrical quality and vital energy that reminds me of the music of
Edward Elgar; indeed, it has been pointed out that Elgar’s Enigma Variations used a similar theme to one in the
first movement of the G minor concerto.

Happenings this week

Thursday, April 3
all day
Davidson National Stowe Galleries

8 & 10:30 p.m.
Pop Film: “Executive Action”
A hypothetical portrait of a conspiracy behind the JFK killing, with Robert Ryan and Burt Lancaster.

Friday, April 4
all day
Gil Harrison on campus

8 p.m.
Catholic Mass
Lingle Chapel

8 p.m.
Evening with... Martin & Morrison Rms.
The Stereo People

Saturday, April 5
7 p.m.
Community Dance
Davidson Community Center

Sunday, April 6
4 p.m.
Piano Recital: Michael Mahla
Hodson Hall

10 p.m.
Davidsonian staff meeting
Union

Monday, April 7
3:30 p.m.
Film: “The Man Who Shot Liberty Valence”
Love Auditorium
This John Ford western opens a series of free films to be shown in conjunction with this week’s visit of
“Village Voice” film critic Andrew Sarris.

8 p.m.
Film: “Young Mr. Lincoln”
Love Auditorium

Tuesday, April 8
7 p.m.
Worship Service
DCPC
Representatives from Koinonia Farm will discuss their unique community.

8:15 p.m.
Student Recital
Hodson Hall

Wednesday, April 9
10 a.m.
Film: “Grand Illusion”
Love Auditorium

2 p.m.
Film: “Rules of the Game”
Love Auditorium

7 p.m.
Drama Workshop: “The Apollo of Bellac”
Banquet Hall
Directed by GeofArapian “The Martyrdom of Peter Ohey” directed by Joe McMillan

The handling of the musical material is effective, the harmonies colorful but not overbearing, and there is ample counterpoint for
interest. The orchestration is thin in texture; there is no Brahmsian mush here. The organ is allowed to be an
organ instead of a one-man orchestra, which it is not.

The performances are effective enough; Biggs’s playing is musical and sometimes outstanding. His registration varies from tolerable to awful, but
the organ is at fault most of the time. It is not only clear but downright shrill in the choruses.
The conductor seems unable to coordinate the organ and individual groups of instruments very well. This does not become serious
until critical moments in the music when everything falls apart. This is understandable in that this orchestra is not a
group that regularly works together, but the result is not musically acceptable. At least the music “comes off.”

The recorded sound is decent if not impressive, and the surfaces are quiet. This recording is a noble effort on
the part of Columbia, Biggs, and Peress to revive Rheinberger’s music, and until a tighter performance is recorded, this is
the only one available.

McPartland to play jazz piano in Raleigh’s Stewart Theatre

Jazz pianist Marian McPartland will play in the North Carolina State University Stewart Theatre in a four-day jazz festival through
April 5 at 8 p.m. This residency is made possible by a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts.

McPartland came of age when pianistic giants Earl Hines, Fats Waller, Art Tatum, and Bud Powell were at the heights
of their careers. In the past five years, she has moved beyond their influence into her own special realm of
emotional, romantic, and highly inventive keyboard style. Her explorations of harmony and counterpoint, a steady beat that sets the outer
limits for the song, and the improvisation of new musical phrases result in a round dimension of jazz swing.

The McPartland Trio will play with the N.C. State University Stage Band Friday. The trio plays Saturday evening with Paul
Montgomery.

Metrolina Flea Market

Antique collectors and other shoppers will have the opportunity to browse and buy all weekend at the Metrolina Fairgrounds for
the Metrolina Flea Market. The fair lasts from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday and Sunday.

The Beach Boys to play

The Beach Boys, with their blend of old and new rock 'n' roll, are at the Charlotte Coliseum Sunday, April
6, at 8 p.m. The group has remained popular through a number of changes, having made successful evolutions from 1960’s
beach music, racing themes, to love ballads.

Mint Museum paintings

The Mint Museum of Art opens a new exhibition on Sunday, “The Landscape and the Nude.”

John Denver

John Denver will play in concert at the Charlotte Coliseum on Monday at 8 p.m. Denver’s brand of music, the
rock-ballad, has won this artist popularity throughout the country.

Alice Cooper

In the near future, Alice Cooper will bring his group to the Charlotte Coliseum. His April 12 performance, “Welcome to
my Nightmare,” will be televised nationally.

“I wish I could do some but I’m just one person. Do you really accept that?”
