January 16, 1975

The Davidsonian

Five Extern Program Encourages Off-Campus Student Learning

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Extern program recently initiated by the Office of Experiential Programs is only partially filled, according to Director Ken Wood. Extern will provide Davidson students the opportunity to work with college alumni during the spring break in fields students may be interested in pursuing.

“We now have 16 applicants, and the program can handle 20, so we are still accepting applicants,” Wood said.

The Extern program is similar to one which is now in operation at Swarthmore College. “It is hoped that a program such as this will enable students to focus their interests and begin to direct them toward vocational goals,” Wood said.

The candidates for the program will fill out applications expressing their vocational interests and geographical preferences. These, in turn, will be reviewed by Wood and Director of Alumni Affairs Howard Arbuckle. “We are just beginning to tap one of our most important resources here at Davidson, that of the alumni,” said Wood.

Once the Extern program is defined, a particular alumnus will be contacted by letter or the school’s Watts line concerning working to develop an internship opportunity. Yet Experiential Learning Office internships are by no means limited to the Extern program, according to Wood.

“One program called the Tampa Term was inspired by work done over the summer by Davidsonian Editor Mark Deaton. It will involve five students spending spring term in a rented house in Tampa, Fla.,” explained Wood. The students will be in the Ybor City area, a predominantly Spanish-speaking section, and will be working on a wide range of programs including health, education, and welfare. According to Wood, “the students will be working all day and come together at night to share their experiences.” They will be spending time doing a study of the human dimensions of a city in an effort to find possible ways to meet the city dwellers' needs.

Another program entitled the Atlanta-Appalachian Plunge Program will involve 12 students and one member of the faculty. According to Wood, “This group will spend time on campus until May 19, researching various aspects of human problems at the two geographical areas. At the end of this research period, the student will be immersed into the stream of human problems and with the aid of a professor and his research, he will make inquiries into possible solutions,” explained Wood.

Wood expressed disappointment that more students had not taken advantage of the program. “The main purpose of this office is to offer students who may be in a cloistered academic setting the opportunities to come to grips with real-world needs, problems, and issues,” explained Wood. “Unfortunately,” Wood continued, “Davidson students appear interested but seem reluctant to act on these interests. Many students are too tied up with academic concerns to accept the legitimacy of some of the experiential programs,” continued Wood.

At present, approximately 50 students are involved in individual programs. Some are now working at a children’s home in Barium Springs. “One individual is taking winter term and working at a child care center in Washington, D.C.,” stated Wood.

Recently, a graduate intern from UNCC came to Davidson to work a few days in the area of “Career and Life Planning.” Such a program will help students clarify life goals and employment interests. Wood hopes to see the Extern program expand to make job placement and internships more accessible to students and especially to increase communication with Davidson alumni.

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Davidson College speakers captured four of seven first places and the team trophy at the Catawba College Individual Events Tournament in Salisbury, January 10-11. Lenoir-Rhyne was second in team standings, while Bob Jones University took third.

Rick Roylance, a junior, took first in the television commentary category. Hal McCoy, also a junior, won solo division acting, in which senior Carroll Ensley also made the finals. In duet division, Ensley teamed up with Geof Arapian, another senior, to win with a piece from “Boys in the Band.” Senior Tony Martin was a finalist in the oral interpretation category, while Randy Sherrill and Rick Roylance made the finals in humorous and persuasive speaking, respectively.

Coaches Jean Cornell and Rupert Barber are very pleased with theSpeakers’ showing at Catawba and throughout the season, especially in impromptu speaking, in which a speaker is given seven minutes to prepare and deliver a speech. The coaches hope to have Harvard and Princeton debaters come to Davidson this spring, and to hold a major speaking tournament sometime next year, which will include both debate and individual events. Davidson debaters take on Wake Forest here today.

Trustee Committees Serve Davidson
(Continued from page 3)

Eight board members are elected from nominations by the Alumni Association and the current senior class. All of these nominations must be alumni of the college.

Florida Presbyteries
Two trustees are elected by and from the Florida Presbyteries of Everglades and Sewanee. These are the only Florida Presbyteries represented. “Way back—probably in the early days of the Presbyterian Church U.S., Florida used to be affiliated with Davidson, but now its presbyteries support Florida Presbyterian College. Two presbyteries have decided to go with dual support of both Fla. Presbyterian and Davidson. Georgia and South Carolina Presbyteries support Presbyterian College in Clinton, South Carolina; and South Carolina also maintains relations with Queens College,” said Hall.

“There exist some non-voting members of the board, called Ex-Officio Members. One of these is always the President of the National Alumni. Currently, Blaine Kelly is the President of National Alumni. The other Ex-Officio member is the Honorable Sam Ervin III. Occupationally, the at-large trustees are a law school professor, a civic worker, the president of Union Theological Seminary, a physician, the executive director of the Presbyterian Foundation Inc., the president of Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Co., and a retired executive of Proctor & Gamble.

The Executive Committee
The board is made up of one Executive Committee, and ten standing committees. Each committee has a chairman, a vice-chairman, committee members, and an administrative liaison. The Executive Committee is chaired by the board chairman. This committee, made up of the chairmen of the other ten committees, meets separately from the rest of the board to discuss and approve various board activities.

Standing Committees
The ten standing committees include Athletics and Physical Education, Building and Grounds, Development, Education, Finance and Management, Religious Policy, Student Life and Health, Honorary Degrees, Nominating, and Resolutions Committees. The entirety of college policy in these areas is defined in trustee meetings.

Religious Policy
In the realm of religious policy, Davidson said, “The school is a part of the church and therefore the trustees have a responsibility to try to make certain that the ultimate responsibility is discharged. My committee has played a part in the current program involving the College Church with the campus. It is our hope that Rush Otey has a large amount of functioning support in and through the college church. In this way, the Church will play a youthful part in serving the student body,” said Davidson.

Christians Tenured
“For example, during discussions involving tenure, the committee met many times with faculty committees and with students. It was our concern as to how, within the framework of the College Charter, the relationship might be made to provide for each of these groups.”

The continued existence of Davidson College is a primary point of discussion for trustees. Money must be had to run the school.

Perpetual Fund Drive
“The prime thing we have to worry about is that we have a lot of money to raise. Inflation is tapering off, and there is indeed a tabling or plateau trend in the economy but it is at a higher plateau than we have ever seen it. Operating costs have doubled. We try to think of how to handle this in terms of holding down tuition. The private institution is becoming a smaller and smaller part of American college education. We have to compete with state institutions supported by taxes for students. The future right now looks like a perpetual fund drive,” said White.

Monetary Rewards
There are no monetary rewards for Davidson College Trustees. Although the college freely pays for their transportation, most trustees either refuse to submit expense account reports or they give the money back to the school after each year.

“I find lots of rewards to being a trustee. First, there's a happy association with the institution. There’s a happy association with persons interested in that institution. It is a reward to think about the degree to which you feel you’ve made some contribution. I find it rewarding to think about the role of a Christian liberal arts college and being affiliated with that college,” said Hall.