April 17, 1975 The Davidsonian

Five Meredith Hall at home

A § life. We get angry and blame the bad agents and think of them as all bad. If we see a hero we try to maintain that person as all good. Therefore, ‘Godless communists are evil and the Free world holds forth for good. Until a few years ago it was hard to think of the United States as having bad or immoral motivations. People over forty grew up in a culture that confirmed the U.S.A. as the good guy and our enemies as ugly and degenerate. Today the horror of Vietnam is so clear and it forces complex emotions within some of us. Few of us devalue people and yet we are not standing by our ally. In not continuing to support South Vietnam we are forced to say we have made a mistake. This was not a small mistake but a gross incomprehensible mistake. Most of us avoid the complexity of feeling national pain. No nation, perhaps especially the United States, likes to admit mistakes.

Chuck Harmon

Would you come back? The only clue was that she looked like someone my little brother would date—probably pizza and an R-rated movie. However, if we do not face the fact that we made such a terrible error we will be doomed to committing similar tragedies. Most of us will seek to blunt the ugliness of the situation. Some will say, “So what?” Another group will blame everyone from Harry Truman to Richard Nixon. But little wisdom will be obtained from placing a screen of any type before our eyes at this time. Many formally educated verbal individuals will tell why it happens and why we feel as we do now. But it would appear far better to know what is happening than to sterilize it with intellectualisms. This seems to be an appropriate time to feel national pain. But I guess if I hadn’t been told that she was a prospective student I wouldn’t have noticed her age. Strange, being a senior in high school seems an awfully long time ago—I’ll start to feel old and suffer nostalgic neuralgia if I’m not careful. The question which immediately confronts one—or I should say immediately confronted me as if I have learned anything about human nature it is that nothing immediately confronts everyone—in fact, most people seem to escape life’s delightful journey without having been confronted at all, but that is another subject entirely—in such an encounter is, “if I had it all to do over again, would I come to school here?”

However, although I invite critical

Hats typify library personalities

The dedicated employees of the E.H. Little Library circulation desk don’t give green stamps, though we often aid in the brownie point game. Yet there are still those who think we give green stamps, tap dance, hold hoop rolling contests—anything but look up books for students. Those students who use the circulation desk fall into three camps:
1) Those in the know. They wear white hats.
2) Those in the unknow. They look pitiful, clutch their syllabus and cast a hopeful eye at the time clock, which can’t help them. Often their hat is in the process of falling off.
3) The silent, surly type. They have no ability to vocalize, a tendency to slam book cards around and threaten to beat the desk person if their book is out. Right. They wear black hats.

I think it is about time to educate the public in the art of the reserve desk. There actually are third term students who have never touched the reserve desk catalogue, as well as one glorious incompetent who wanted a book but didn’t know the title, author, call number, or even the color of the book. The following list of do’s and don’ts should be helpful.

1) Don’t say, “I want that book I’m supposed to read.” It’s not helpful. To your right as you face the desk is a card catalogue. Use it. Write down all the numbers (yes, even the little ones) and hand it to the desk person. Even if the desk person is in your class, don’t say, “I want that book we’re supposed to read.” It makes him feel guilty for not studying.
2) Never interrupt two employees discussing the vagrancies of IMAC referees. Everyone needs their fun.
3) Avoid holding conventions in front of the reserve desk. It makes the time clock nervous, the desk person seem lazy, and sometimes hinders fellow students from reaching the desk.
4) Don’t saunter up and say, “I want vertical file 4+.” Identify your professor or you might be surprised and receive, “A Critical Study of African Swamp Grass, In the Eyes of a Poetry Critic, an Economist and a Beach Bum.”
5) If your book is not in the card catalogue, it is not on reserve. The library employees gave up eating reserve cards a long time ago.
6) Don’t hand a desk person a list of books to find “just to see if they’re on reserve.” No one appreciates sadism.
7) Never tempt the wit of a desk person too far, such as saying, “Can I have the Holy Roman Empire?” You leave yourself wide open.
8) If your professor consistently puts too few copies of an assignment on reserve, it is not the desk person’s fault. Please delete all expletives.
9) Yes, we give change for bills under one hundred, and the Xerox will also give you change for dimes and quarters.
10) Never be too afraid to ask questions. We may look important, but we’re actually just like you.

Thank you for shopping E.H. Little!

If anyone cares, I did not mean to call Harvard a lesbian of the American regime. I actually wrote, “The last bastion of the ancient...”Regime.’”’ Between pen and printer, many perversions can occur. As and creative responses to such a query, I find it a peculiarly preposterous question. Of course, I would. All my friends are here, my life has been shaped—good or bad—by this place, and my perceptions and attitudes have been so molded by Davidsoniana—whatever the hell that is—that it seems absurd to speculate about the alteration of relatively recent reality.

Unfortunately, having allowed simple, innocent musing to metamorphosize into serious reflection, I found myself confronted—I seem to do that a lot lately—with a larger question, and beckoned by some strange journalistic urge to pursue the matter.

Role of alumni

One of the things that this place prides itself on is the role that its alumni play in recruiting new students. Consequently, as if to instill the practice early on, the admissions office has in the past encouraged the student body to spend their vacations searching out local prospective innocents and giving them the hard sell—or frank opinion, if you prefer. Thus, the dual experience of meeting just such a prospective student right here on campus, and the stark realization that, God and the Religion department willing, I will in fact soon be an “alumnus,” causes me to ask myself if I should, or would, recommend this place to anybody.

My mind drifts back. Actually, I wasn’t very nervous. After all, I had had a year of college already, so this shouldn’t be such an intimidating place. Yet suave and sophisticated as I tried to be, confident in the knowledge that a transfer was an entirely different creature than a would-be freshperson (actually they were freshmen in those days), it was a truly unique experience to visit this place. That war of nerves that one fights to try and not appear to be a visitor, but to blend in when one is so conspicuous—a condition which I must admit I have observed with great glee from the other side since that time—was in my case ended not by a blunder on my part, but by the fact that an accompanying friend had the presence of mind to carry a catalogue about the campus. The battle lost, we were actually approached by some members of that...

See ’22, page 7

Publication crisis reveals deeper issue

To the Editor:

Your article entitled “Perish and Publish: The dilemma of college publications” may have shed light on more than just the problems of Buck Lawrimore and Company. The article actually revealed the problem in the Davidson College administration with the exception of one man, Academic Vice President John Bevan. For some reason, Dr. Bevan doesn’t have the problem that the rest of the administration seems to have—not telling it like it is. Whether the issue be the guest house, or the yearbook, the students never get an accurate and completely honest answer from the administration.

In the article to which I am referring, Dr. Bevan said, “The Update is a P.R. piece designed to place Davidson in the best light.” I do not agree with Dr. Bevan that the Update should do this, but I respect and appreciate his honest evaluation of the paper. What drives me “up the wall” is that Buck Lawrimore can say “I don’t see the Update as a ‘good news only’ publication, but fortunately, most of what we’ve had to print is good news.” Can Mr. Lawrimore be serious? If he is, then he must be incompetent, and I can assure students from my dealings with the administration that those who are incompetent are far and few between. No, Mr. Lawrimore is far from incompetent because the Update masterfully does what it’s supposed to do and that is to present the calm while the storm is raging.

For example, while our alumni were delighted to read that Davidson was number one in art in the Update, I seriously doubt that many alumni or students realize that Herb Jackson has rightfully threatened to close the show next year unless he receives better facilities in 1976.

The point of this letter is not to chastise Earl Lawrimore, but rather to point out that the administration need not present less than the whole truth. Students are mature enough to accept unpopular decisions. No one can accept less than the whole truth. If the administration wants the Update to be the school propaganda tabloid, if they resent nudity in the yearbook, and if they want to make the Carnegie Building into the guest house again, then so be it. But just do what Dr. Bevan does and tell us.

THANKS!

Marc Menchel, ’77

Davidson College

To the Editor:

In regard to a recent article in which Mr. Augustus Succop cast most despicable (and unfounded) aspersions upon the honor of the Eumenean Society, to wit: “No one is proud to be a member of the Eumenean Society,” I wish to take issue.

Not only do I take great pride in my membership, I feel quite confident in stating that I speak for the remainder of the society as well. I might add that we have no need of formal regalia in order to ensure feelings of maturity and intellectual ability, and furthermore, we are not so unsure of our identity as to be forced to discriminate against a quite respectable, and, if we may believe representatives of the admissions office, intellectually superior segment of the Davidson community.

On behalf of the Society, I welcome any reply.

William A. Beasley, ’76

Sergeant at Arms

Eumenean Society

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 350 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.