Fourteen The Davidsonian January 16, 1975

Worst Column Ever Hits New Depths

IMAC REPORT

with LEONA BUCKY

CAPTAIN AMERICA

B League Enhances Spiritual Musing

By FRANK STIEFEL
Asst. Sports Editor

After two years of frustration and severe bodily pain, I have hung up my flashy satin shorts and left the
realm of A League basketball for a no-cut, guaranteed play contract with a B League team. Pride did not hold
up my decision very long, but then it rarely does. Somehow, I just could not relate to some monster trying
to tattoo Spalding on my forehead. In A League ball, you are always meeting some deranged pre-med who is going
to shower you with elbows or clean your clock on a breakaway. It just is not really much fun unless
you are willing to take the ‘Bo Brickels Oath of Dedication.” Alas, dedication was never one of my stronger attributes.

Although I am still feeling my way around the league, I like what I see. Warm-up is like a study
in alternated states of consciousness. Airballs outnumber swishes. And the outfits are a challenge. Some of Groucho’s best suits, not
to mention Harpo’s; Zeppo could never have competed in this league. When tap-off time arrives with half the players already
having nicotine fits, it always takes a couple of minutes of argument to get everyone headed in the right direction.
Inevitably, the player who retrieves the ball still hesitates, trying to decide if he has an easy breakaway or if
it is somehow possible that everyone else is heading the right way.

After about three minutes of 30-yard sprints, everybody finally gets it together and realizes how insane all this unnecessary running
is. So the game evolves into a cherry-picking contest, or for you less learned, basket-hanging. The unfortunate athletic disease known
as hustle thwarted this life-saving tactic in A League play. Most of their players were warming up for the nightly
metal-throwing contest. A visit to the weight room should be required for graduation. It really is impressive.

My last game proved just how valuable basket-hanging can be. Early in the first half, I suffered a severe ankle
sprain trying to perform the difficult task of turning around. Here I was, a useless cripple and as usual, we
only had five players. However, in B League, you merely have to look at the opposition to realize how easily
this problem can be circumvented. As it was, the closest any of their players got to me was to the
shirt tail of my X-large Davidson jersey as I drove in for twelve unmolested lay-ups. What a rush. I have
not scored 26 points since I played myNine-year-old neighbor one-on-one. B League is the frustrated jock’s paradise. Dismay. You don’t
see us telling Dr. Rogerson how to teach Spanish, do you? Anyway, this is an IMAC column, and despite the
lack of games due to the usual lack of gym time, Bowie Andrews managed to get in a few biggies
since Christmas, if you can call a B-league game a biggie. But we don’t mess with B-league anymore, so you
B players (we use the word loosely), go complain to Wetzel and the Beach.

In A league action, before Christmas nothing happened as many games got canceled because of the annual pre-Christmas bun break
by a lot of professors on their hapless students. And to top it all off, there were only two, yes,
two A league games played after Christmas. IFT, undefeated after four games, blew out the Ragmen 44-43 behind Schmader’s 17
points while Larry Hibon chipped in with 18 points for the Ragmen. Coach Kirk Combe criticized the inept “let ’em
play” refereeing. Thank you, Kirk.

Until we meet again, remember the great wisdom of the young B.T. If God had wanted people to be library
rats, he would have made the whole world like D.C. The only other contest saw the young Possums hurt C-III
69-35 as Mike Peskosky popped in 30 points to continue as one of the loop's leading scorers. C-III really reeks,
but a guy named Blinkhorn (no relation to Eason) scored 20 points.

Well, seeing how we have to have this column in today, and there were only two games of intramural consequence
played this last week, we ain’t got a whole lot to write about. So we ought to quit while the
article is short and bad instead of letting it get long and bad, right? Maybe yes, maybe no.

Ah ha, more news: the IMAC swim meet was held the other night, and we don’t have any results yet,
but at least there were no reports of some young library rat drowning doing the breaststroke. There isn’t anything funny
about the swim meet, so we’re gonna hang it up now, possibly our worst column and, without a doubt, our
shortest. Boy, are we lucky God ain’t stupid, eh?

Justice for Farmworkers. Boycott Gallo wines.

TREY ETRE PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7, — Wed. 9 - 12, — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N.C. 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries
Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies
Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans
Only 6 miles north in Mooresville

Serving boys and girls ages 7-16, CAMP THUNDERBIRD
Counselor Opportunities
Excellent summer careers for men and women who are interested in serving them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development.
Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop to his or her fullest
potential should apply. Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an A.C.A. accredited camp member, specializing in
water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics,
tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in an excellent program. For
further information, write or call G. William Climer Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).
