Eight The Davidsonian January 23, 1975

Comanche Speaks For First Americans

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

“My grandfather was an Eagle medicine man and could cure us of colds and bronchial ailments while my grandmother was the first Comanche converted into Christianity,” said Woodrow Wilson Fellow and lecturer, Mrs. LaDonna Harris. “Surprisingly there was no conflict in their relationship, for Comanches are tolerant and respect others’ beliefs. My grandfather drove us to church and waited outside for us. When we returned, he said Peyote chants and sang songs.”

A native Comanche and wife to Sen. Fred Harris of Oklahoma, Mrs. Harris is President and Director of Americans for Indian Opportunity, a ten-year-old non-profit service organization, and she is on the board of the National Organization for Women. “Americans for Indian Opportunity is made up of a board of 32 people and is staffed by seven, including a few token non-Indians,” she stated.

Mrs. Harris’ heritage is evident in her high cheekbones, black hair, and brown skin. As she spoke she fingered a necklace made of Abalone shells which she explained were once traded among Indian tribes all the way inland to North Dakota. “Our organization is presently working on projects which will help our Indian communities learn to use natural resources without exploiting them or losing Indian culture,” she said. “For example: a Montana reservation is getting into strip mining. We’re trying to see how the community can receive the economic advantage without destroying the culture by bringing in international lawyers (some who helped with rising African nations), Indian legal groups, and people who can help with techniques,” she said.

As a remedy to Indian unemployment, Mrs. Harris cited the advantages of redirecting public service to better use of natural resources. “Several Indian communities have gone into business for themselves. The businesses are developed and owned by the community as a whole so everyone benefits and not just one wealthy owner,” Mrs. Harris explained. “The business is complementary to the culture of the community. A coastal community has been very successful in aquaculture by cultivating seaweed, oyster beds, and salmon, and their culture remains the same,” she said.

Although Mrs. Harris is an activist in the women’s movement, she spends most of her time working with the Indian movement. “I don’t see the women’s movement as necessarily separate from the Indian movement, but I feel my energies are better used within the Indian community,” she said. “There are many women activists. Because of the lack of American natives, I feel I am needed there,” she added.

As the wife of a Presidential candidate, Mrs. Harris has a unique perspective on the intersection of politics and social issues. 

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

“Fiddler on the Roof” is playing in Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte on Friday, Jan. 24th. It moves to Raleigh and the Stewart Theatre at N.C. State on the 25th. The production is by a national touring group, starring Bob Carroll as Tevye, the stout Russian Jew who holds direct talks with God and suffers through pogroms, pride, and the marriages of his daughters. Tickets to the performances—2 and 8 p.m.—at State are $8.00. For reservations call 737-3105 in Raleigh.

“Godspell” opens at Furman University in Greenville on Jan. 30 in the Theatre ’75 Playhouse. The production is by the Furman Theatre Guild—their second musical in five years. Jimmy David plays Christ. David is a drama major at Furman.

February 1, the City Center Acting Company presents Goldsmith’s “She Stoops To Conquer” at N.C. State. Between shy suitors, stolen jewels, and the antics of Tony Lumpkin—a character who’s both catalyst and comic—this should be good for lots of laughs. Tickets are $4.00, and reservations are suggested.

Music-wise, “Grand Funk Railroad” comes to the Charlotte Coliseum on February 2. “Rufus” plays at Rock Hill, South Carolina on the first, and the band “Hydra” performs at Clemson Jan. 31. On a lower level, Ry Cooder plays at “The Pier” in Raleigh on the 26th; John Hartford and “Hickory Wind” follow him together from the 27th through the 29th. Ronnie Milsap is in Charlotte on the 25th, and Don Williams performs in Asheville on the 21st, then moves to other locations.to Greensboro on the 22nd. The Stewart Theatre at N.C. State hosts the "Memphis Blues Caravan" at 8 p.m. on Jan. 29 and 30. Composed of Blues talent from Memphis—Furry Lewis, Bukka White, Piano Red, and others—this band plays pieces that span all of blues history. Billed as "a lively and entertaining documentary of an important musical heritage," this show promises to be definitely worth seeing. Tickets are $5.00; call for reservations.

There is a classical scene in Charlotte, and on the 31st of January and the 2nd of February, the Charlotte Opera Association produces "The Marriage of Figaro" in Ovens Auditorium. It will be sung in English and stars John Seabury as Figaro with Carol Wilcox playing Susanna, Figaro’s lover. The conductor is Charles Rosekrans and direction is by James Lucas. Tickets are sold at the box office, or you can call 372-9664 for reservations. Wear your black tie.

LaDonna Harris, candidate, Mrs. Harris is faced with the possibility of becoming the First Lady. "I don’t see that I would have to be less active in my present work if I became First Lady. I’d like to think that there would be some changes I would make in the White House, but I haven’t really refined my thoughts on that," she said. "My heroine has always been Eleanor Roosevelt. I liked the beautification programs of Mrs. Johnson and the warmth of Mrs. Ford impresses me."

Sen. and Mrs. Harris have lived in Washington, D.C. for ten years. "There is a lot of prestige in Washington as the wife of a senator," she said. "I was asked by Sargent Shriver to testify for the O.E.O. before the White House Committee, and I was the first congressional wife to testify before any hearing committee in history."

Mrs. Harris and her husband are quite concerned over Indian health conditions and hospitals, which are funded and run by the federal government. "Indian health is the poorest in the nation and something should be done about it," she said. "Our country is first in defense and 17th in deaths at birth. Instead of building a B-14 Bomber, we should train paramedics."

She seeks to find Indians who want to go into the medical profession. "I’m not sure why this is. It may be the result of some psychological trauma experienced at an Indian hospital where the conditions are so poor. It may be that our schools are weak in the science area. I don’t know what it is, but I want to find out."

Mrs. Harris said that some professional schools have installed programs that make the Indians want to go to their own communities and work. "My daughter went through such a program where she attends law school. She wants to work in an Indian community."

Mrs. Harris and her husband considered writing a book on the poor health of Indian communities. "Indians still have little resistance to the European diseases that were brought to this country by settlers. Indians have little immunity to tuberculosis and this is a big problem. I once thought of writing a book about this," she said. "Somehow the disease would always precede the settlers by about a week. Smallpox was a horrible threat to Indian communities when settlers first arrived. Just as Oklahoma was opened to land settlers, there was a great smallpox epidemic," she added.

"My grandfather, an Eagle medicine man, was able to cure colds. You know they say 70% of all illnesses are psychosomatic. Well, I suppose it’s just a matter of faith. At one hospital an Indian demanded to have a medicine man there and a doctor said no," she stated. "The Indian was the son of an influential man so the medicine man was brought to the hospital," according to Mrs. Harris.

Mrs. Harris has two daughters and a son. "My daughters are both very strong Comanches as well as strong feminists," she said. "One of my daughters has blonde hair and blue eyes and people are always amazed to find that she is our daughter and a Comanche. We corrected our children in Comanche so that they would not be embarrassed in front of other people. The Comanches never physically punish their children but praise them," she added.

Mrs. Harris’ eldest daughter Kathryn is a law student at Stanford University, while Byron, her son, is 16 and Laura, her other daughter, is 12 years old. Mrs. Harris said that her favorite phrase in Comanche can be used as a greeting. "Comanche is not a written language, but some people spell it out phonetically," she said. The phrase, she said, "sounded something like this: ‘Zon on nisicat da punits.’ It means ‘it makes me feel so very good to see you,’" she smiled.

Students prepare a sign for the Davidson basketball game with The Citadel.