The Davidsonian
July 4, 1976

Rescue workers take a break during the search for missing Honors College Students lost in the rapids. (Photo by Kirkstein)

SCRAPING THE BOTTOM

Burts Announces Dual Births Of Closely Linked Grandsons
By DR. SEUSS
Staff Writer

Registrar and Mrs. Richard C. Burts Jr. announced the births of their fourth and fifth grandchildren Wednesday. “I’m so thrilled.
This is just what we’ve wanted,” said Mrs. Burts. “The twins look just like us.”

The Burts Siamese twins were tied at the hands. The registrar expressed dismay at the joining of the twins. “Separating
twins tied at the hands is no major surgical feat,” said Burts, “but the Burts family have traditionally been plagued
with the inability to loosen our little pinkies.”

The children were born at 1 a.m. “The worst things always happen after midnight,” said Burts.

The deadline for students turning in their congratulations forms is Feb. 21, at 5 p.m. in the Registrar’s office. “All
forms must be ready for the computer to process when the baby is christened,” said Burts. Students protested that this
gave them too little time to consult with their advisors, but Burts said he was unable to allow for an
extension. “My hands are tied,” said Burts. “The baby had been delayed an extra week while the forms were being
prepared for distribution, but my daughter agreed to the inconvenience to give students the option of more time. Certainly professors
can stand the slight time changes and adjust their schedules to meet with their advisees.”

Due to the money crunch caused by the tuition freeze, the traditional pink and blue striped computer card forms have
been scrapped. The form below must be cut out and filled in.

Name

The directions are: Read these instructions carefully. There are substantial differences from previous forms. First, indicate your congratulations for the
Burts in order of preference. Put a 1 in the box by your first choice. Put a 2 in the
box by your...

Honors Students Canoe Rocky River With Hennis As River Pilot
By GERALD TERHORST
Staff Writer

Students and faculty from the Center for Honors Study took a brown-water canoe trip up the Rocky River yesterday to
find the major sources of pollution, according to Professor of Biology David C. Grant. “We took samples all along the
way to determine what life does exist in the stream,” Grant said. “We found none.”

The group began paddling 50 yards below Laundry Creek and disembarked in the center of Mooresville. Several students remarked that
it would have been easier to paddle downstream, but Dean of the Center for Honors Studies Earl R. MacCormac disagreed.
“Our research was pretty conclusive that the Rocky flowed downstream,” said MacCormac. “I figured we'd better head upstream if we
were going to find out where the dirty water was coming from. Besides, it’s time honors students stopped getting down
in the mouth about hard work and began using primary sources,” MacCormac said.

The group was encouraged by college efforts to clean up the stream. The group had high praise for Director of
the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze’s solution for the laundry effluent. “The college is doing its part to clean up
the river by dumping in all the soap suds from the laundry,” said Grant. “I got to take a bubble
bath,” said Nancy Petrowski, one of the students along for the ride.

River navigator H. L. Hennis steered the group safely through the laundry effluent. “It was the only place along the
whole river that was high tide,” said Hennis. “Fortunately, I know this stretch of the river well, so I kept
us away from all the bars,” Hennis said. “I read all about it in a book.”

After six hours of paddling, the group had advanced ten yards against the tremendous current. The group decided to stop
for an honors center lunch at one o'clock. Hennis had eaten all the ham, so the rest of the group
had to settle for tuna fish sandwiches. After the lunch and a talk by little Charlie Shepherd in Hindi about
Indian canoeing, the group proceeded. The canoe speed was much faster as all the students began paddling in the same
direction.

No signs of life were spotted by the group until they paddled the canoes into the Mooresville Waste Treatment Plant
settling pond. “I got us through the rapids all right,” said Hennis, “but those activated sludge stirrer-uppers digested all our
paddles.” The canoes capsized near the chlorinators. “I've never had such a bad reception in my life,” said MacCormac, coming
up for aeration. “We were treated like —- (excrement deleted).”

Several students familiar with the social aspects of the honors center disagreed. (See HONORS, page 12)Second choice. Put a 3
in the box by your third choice. Second, indicate your congratulations for the Burts' grandchildren. Put a 1 in the
box by your first choice. Put a 2 in the box by your second choice. Put a 3 in the
box by your third choice. Third, get your advisor’s approval. Advisors and students are warned to be careful of their
ranking of choices. Changes will not be permitted after the forms are turned in until the regular drop/add period. Fourth,
turn the completed and properly signed form into the Registrar’s office during the normal office hours of 11 a.m. to
12 noon. A friend may substitute. Use form below:

I _____ congratulate _____ am pleased for ____ don’t care about
I _____ congratulate _____ am pleased for ____ don’t care about

Student’s signature

Registrar and Mrs. R. Clyde Burts Jr. recommend birth control for recommend Davidson for the Burts’ new grandsons

Advisor’s signature

Student Expires In Infirmary Following Week-Long Illness
By RANDOLPH HEARST

Dean of Students Will H. Terry announced Wednesday that the first Davidson student had died while undergoing treatment at the
college infirmary. According to Terry, senior Craig Crosswhite succumbed to a case of chronic rabies early Wednesday morning. He was

The Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Editor: LEON VENABLE
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Contributors this week: Fessor Leonard, Fortunate C. McDole, Johnston Jim, Jeremiah Johnson, Masters and Johnson, Topo Gigio, Mike Tanner, Bobby
Baker, Grim’s Baker, Studa Baker, Patty Hearst, Jim Martin, Morganna, Peter Stuart Ney, Bob Mosketti, Anopheles Mosquito, Buck Lawrimore, Wister
Jackson, Wallace Twombly, Telly Savalas, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, Eva Braun, Eva Spencer, Euripides, Eumenides, E.H. Little, and Jerry Mathers as
the Beaver.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

“We haven't found out yet who was the guilty mutt. But then, there doesn’t seem to be so many of
them around here as there used to be,” said Terry.

Dorothy Sherrill, R.N., Superintendent of the infirmary, was distressed and confused. “Craig came in last week complaining of severe pains
in his left leg. We told him to take two aspirin and get plenty of sleep,” she explained. Sherrill then
made Crosswhite an appointment to come back in for a check-up in six months, but he returned the next night
with ‘a bodacious toothache’ and extreme nausea. “Then we figured it must be bad,” Sherrill continued. “They usually don't come
two days in a row unless it’s real bad, you know? Anyway, we kept on feedin’ him those aspirin and
making him sleep, and it looked like he was gonna pull through. But I guess not.”

Crosswhite is survived by an uncle in Winesburg, Ohio, and about half of his freshman class.

“Sure, I remember the first time I saw Craig,” recalled a former hall mate, Jerry Mathers. “We were meeting with
our hall counselors for the first time and in walks this little guy with red hair. But that wasn’t Crosswhite.
Anyway, a few other guys wandered in—right? And finally this dumpy kid with glasses... turned out to be a real
weirdo. That wasn’t him either. Well, I’m sure Crosswhite must have been there somewhere,” Mathers explained.

Another hall student from Crosswhite’s freshman hall remembers the “really far-out games he used to think up. One was sorta
like soccer with a bowling ball. And I think we used to play Frisbee with metal garbage can lids. Wow!
Say, have you got a match? One of the strangest things,” he continued, “was the time he bought a crossbow.
Shot that thing clean through the fire door in the middle of the hall, can you believe it? Yeah, that
was about the time we lost one of the first off our hall. Wow!”

Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan said, “I remember Craig Crosshairs. He was a good ol’ boy. Really
high caliber, I’d say.”

Registrar Richard C. Burts Jr. explained, “I’m sorry, my legs are tied.”

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. said, “Who’s Craig Crossbow?”

Crosswhite was not available for comment.
