March 27, 1975

The Davidsonian

Five Davis steps over musical boundaries

By ERNEST GLENN
Contributing Editor

Albums Reviewed:
THRUST - Herbie Hancock
GET DOWN WITH IT - Miles Davis
MYSTERIOUS TRAVELLER - Weather Report

These three albums typify the eclecticism of modern jazz. Many of the musicians on these records have played in the
various bands of Miles Davis, and with other musicians. And in the cases of these most recent releases of these
very popular jazz groups, the teacher takes a back seat to his pupils.

With Thrust, Herbie Hancock has put out another record that can compete with the rock and soul market. Head Hunters,
his earlier success, established Hancock as one of the top musicians reaching large audiences with jazz.

Hancock is not as showy with his armada of electric keyboard instruments as on Head Hunters, and the album benefits
from this fact. The strongest performance on the record comes from Bennie Maupin on the saxophone. He is featured in
several solos, where he accomplishes a masterful blend of post-Coltrane technique while keeping in line with Hancock’s soul beat. Hancock
himself has learned to use the electric instruments more lyrically, no longer using the record for a show-piece of his
ability to change dials. But at times the record still sounds like an exhibition of bloops, whines, and burps. Side
one of the record is the stronger, featuring Maupin on long solos in Spank-a-Lee and Butterfly. Hancock’s keyboards furnish rhythm
and texture but little melodic line. He does not blend acoustic with electric piano like Chick Corea has done. When
he played in the old Miles Davis band, Hancock used the acoustic piano. His talent in this field has been
abandoned, at least temporarily, to other fine musicians like Corea and McCoy Tyner.

Joe Zawinul, founder and keyboardist for Weather Report, also rose to fame through the ranks of the Miles Davis career.
Zawinul and saxophonist Wayne Shorter both played on Davis’ album Bitches Brew, one of the first of the experimental jazz
records. Weather Report’s latest album, Mysterious Traveller, redirects the avant-garde back to rock-oriented sounds. And does it very successfully. Nubian
Sundance and the title song use atonality and multiple rhythms along with an overriding continuity of beat to make these
songs danceable while avoiding triteness. This album uses the individual textures of each instrument better than Hancock. Blackthorn Rose blends
the solo beauty of Shorter’s sax with Zawinul on acoustic piano to produce a softness hard to find in most
of the new jazz. As in Thrust, Weather has combined the solo characteristic of jazz with the ensemble performance of
rock.

Miles Davis needs to learn from those he has taught in the past. His new album carries the atonality and
arhythm of Bitches Brew to its absurd end. Most of the record lacks any type of continuity for the listener
to grasp. One song on the double album, Honkey Tonk, sets up a background beat with the guitar, forming a
basis for Miles’ threadlike trumpet solo. But the rest of the songs on the record are not so successful. Miles
plays the organ on this album as well, but exhibits little talent at this instrument. Songs like He Loved Him
Madly consist of nothing more than two or three chords sustained for minutes at a time. The unfortunate thing about
this record is that Davis plays the trumpet very seldom. And when he does, the sound is only an anemic
echo of the horn on Bitches Brew. Herbie Hancock plays on this album, as do Keith Jarrett and John McLaughlin.
The massing of such talents destroys their individual skills in this instance. Miles needs to learn from his pupils and
get back to basics.

Tuesday, April 1
2 p.m. Baseball: Hamilton vs. Davidson
3 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Pfeiffer vs. Davidson
7 p.m. Catholic Mass: Lingle Chapel
8 p.m. Poetry Circuit: Rathskellar
9 p.m. Open End: Morrison Room

Wednesday, April 2
Terry Bonnette, from the Va.-N.C. office of CROP, discusses the reasons for Friday’s fast.
All day - Congressman Jim Martin on campus
2 p.m. Tennis: Howard vs. Davidson

Friday, March 28
2 p.m. Baseball: Williams vs. Davidson
8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: Love Auditorium
8 p.m. Drama Workshop: Banquet Hall
“Paper Chase” Coward’s “Overruled” and Shaw’s “Hands Across the Sea”

In the Christopher Miles film of Jean Genet’s brilliant poetic one-act play “The Maids,” some things are clearly labeled reality—the
scenes involving Monsieur and the actions of the maids, Solange and Claire, when they are down from their fantasy perches—and
others are clearly labeled fantasy or sham—Solange and Claire’s ceremonies and Vivian Merchant’s Madame. Miles and his collaborators lend their
romantic approval to the fantasy scenes and say to hell with the reality. In casting actresses rather than actors as
the maids and interpreting the “sisters” as lesbians rather than as male lovers, Miles—and Minos Volanakis, who directed the stage
production from which the film...Derives-subordinate Genet’s appearance-reality theme in favor of his statements on maid and mistress love and hate
and good and evil. I dare say these are enough themes to keep any mortal play on its feet. “The
Maids,” like some of Shakespeare’s plays, is strong enough to sustain many different interpretations, and the Miles-Volakis interpretation fits over
it with a minimum of chafing. Genet’s understanding of the male homosexual psyche seems less profound when applied to the
female homosexual psyche, but male roles can be very exciting for the females.

Think of Martha in “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” Genet’s statement in reality—that it isn’t really all that real—is no
weak thing in need of being hidden away in a closet, but with Glenda Jackson in the cast, the play
more than gains in aesthetic conviction what it loses in existentialism. “The Maids” provides the occasion for Jackson’s second great
screen performance. Like the first, her Nina in Ken Russell’s “The Music Lovers,” her Solange is an uneven accomplishment. It
starts off disgracefully as Jackson indulges in an orgy of horribly uncontrolled overacting, twisting her face like a gargoyle and
popping her eyes. At the beginning of the film, she is bearable only when her character has been knocked down
from its fantasy perch or when it is shading back and forth on borderlines between fantasy and reality. She is
very impressive in these more restrained moments, dramatically evoking, sometimes without any dialogue, a characterization of a woman whose soul
has festered long ago. One understands how Solange has spent her life up until the time span of the film,
what she does between the moments when we see her, what will come of her later, that she seldom goes
outside, that she couldn’t care less for children, that she is a lesbian, that she masturbates a great deal, that
her favorite emotions are lust, envy, and spite. One feels almost as though one knew what she ate for supper
at night. Jackson’s Solange is like a tragic characterization stepped whole from the pages of Faulkner. One shot of her
face, as she holds it in this film, is enough to speak a tome. She plays the devil, the quintessence
of evil, yet she manages in “The Maids” to bring a touching vulnerability to the role. During the long monologue
at the end, when Solange is swept up in her fantasies more strongly than before and triumphantly exults in being
what she is not, Jackson’s performance attains true greatness. Her performance is like a fluid, understated ballet in which the
movements of her body are accompanied by the cannonade of her voice and the two work together to suggest vast
depths of emotion. There are maleness, magic, demonic possession, and the Devil in her delivery and not a trace of
the gargoyle. Jackson is a great formalist, but her form in this scene is subdued to her content. It is
the content that sweeps her performance along, as it was dominantly the content that swept Jason Robards through his long
monologue in “A Moon for the Misbegotten”—the only instance I can recall of a monologue delivered as well as this
one. Jackson’s performance did to me what all great art—whether melodramatic, serious, or comic—does to me when it is also
greatly affective (some great art is just plain boring, but that is another matter). Her performance made me cry. As
I left the theater afterward, I was still gasping for breath and swallowing down sobs. Jackson’s Solange does not have
the opportunity to interact with a major mise-en-scène, as her Nina did, but Miles’ direction is fine and subtle if
rather weak. He made the mistake of showing Monsieur and the outside world of Paris—both only alluded to in the
play—and they come off seeming like parts of another movie, albeit an intriguing one. Like Miles’ “The Virgin and the
Gypsy,” “The Maids” is lusciously appointed. The former movie, along with Losey’s “The Go-Between” and Russell’s “Women in Love” and
“The Music Lovers,” is one of the most beautiful expressions there are of that quality in film which is uniquely
British. Miles has lost the quality in “The Maids” and finds no adequate substitute—his direction is often no more than
a technical exercise—but he still has a vibrant sense of color. Douglas Slocombe, cinematographer whose major work includes “The Music
Lovers” and Polanski’s “The Fearless Vampire Killers,” who is perfectly capable of a disaster, as “The Great Gatsby” amply illustrates,
returns to top form in “The Maids.” His interweaving of pastel, velvet, and plastic colors is very daring and a
smashing success. Miles’ recurring use of mirrors is reminiscent of his water imagery in “The Virgin and the Gypsy” although
not half so beautiful, and he has failed to keep the bedroom, the main setting of the movie, from sometimes
seeming claustrophobic, but in other ways he has matured as a director. There are a few scattered rhythmical moments in
his mise-en-scène and a couple of scenes that are almost alive as cinema. There were none of either in “The
Virgin and the Gypsy.”

By JOE McMILLAN
