Two The Davidsonian January 30, 1975

Plans Being Finalized Spring Drama Blooms

The Davidson College Drama Department will present “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead” Wednesday, Feb. 5 through Saturday, Feb. 8 in Hodson Hall. Directed by Professor of Speech and Drama Joseph Gardner, “Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead” features Paul Schliefer as Rosencrantz, Hal McCoy as Guildenstern, and Frazier Marsh as The Player. Written by English modern dramatist Tom Stoppard, the play focuses upon two minor characters in Shakespeare’s “Hamlet.”

“Whatever else it is, it is a comedy. My intention was comic, and if the play had not turned out funny, I would have considered that I had failed,” Stoppard said. Gardner indicated his intention of highlighting the comic element in the play. “Stoppard’s techniques blend together to create a fascinating evening of humor, style, and thought. We are working hard to bring out all the humor in this terribly funny play.”

Curtain time for the Wednesday student opening is 7:30 p.m., with subsequent performances the following three nights beginning at 8:15 p.m.

Admissions Policies Maintain Homogeneous Student Groups

By ANDREW LAMAS Executive Editor

(Ed. Note: This is the final installment of a two-part series dealing with admissions and financial aid policies at Davidson College.)

As a result of the college’s admissions policy, the Davidson student body is highly homogeneous, according to Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. Over 60 percent of the student body have parents who earn more than $20,000 annually. Better than 14 percent earn $50,000 or more yearly. Less than 7 percent earn fewer than $10,000 every year.

“It is obvious that Davidson caters to a group of financially elite,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. Bevan indicated that Davidson would be unable to admit students from low-income families if the college policy concerning admissions were altered. He argued that Davidson is able to offer grants of substantial aid to some students because a large percentage of Davidson students require no financial aid whatsoever.

“Only about 28 percent of the students here receive financial aid monies from Davidson,” remarked an administration official. Working as a consultant for the Ford Foundation last year, Bevan reviewed the financial aid and admissions policies of about 180 colleges and universities. “I observed that the schools where 60 percent or more of the students’ parents earned over $20,000 that the number of applicants had not been declining over the past few years. Yet, where less than 60 percent earn $20,000, the schools were losing applicants--the number of applicants was declining,” said Bevan.

This seems to indicate, said Bevan, that a college admissions staff must recruit its

New College Union To Open Next Year

By MATTHEW COVINGTON News Editor

The new College Union will probably not open until next year, although the plans are not fully finalized. This decision is one of several made by a new Union Board that took office this month.

“We can get over there this year but the sacrifice would be heavy. Our use of the new Union would be incomplete and ineffective,” said College Union Director C. Shaw Smith. “We’d be without a clubroom or a snack bar this year. We’d rather not do it if it means a half-operation,” said Smith.

The affirmation of plans and policies at this time is caused by a partial finalization of plans for the Union as a building. This process of finalization includes the hiring of an interior decorator, Nancy Templeman of J.C. Pease Co.

“We are getting to the fun part in planning the Union. At first it was difficult because we had to decide which rooms we wanted and what we wanted them for. Now we’ve gotten into fun things like the color pattern. We will have rust, blue, brown, and orange in the clubroom. In the day it will be bright and sparkly. At night it will be deep and rich,” said Smith.

“These colors are versatile, and so is the whole clubroom,” said Union Board President Richard Wassen. “We want the clubroom to be flexible and it will be. We’ll have a balcony, a dance floor, and a bar serving draft beer. We’re going all out on the clubroom and it’s going tobe well done,” continued Wassen. “We expect to have a small library in the lounge and a game room, but we need students to help plan these before we move,” said Wassen.

Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FAIRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Another decision made by the new Union Board is to continue the practice of charging students for tickets to concerts. This seemed to work well over Mid-Winters, a fact that seemed to encourage the board. The ability to have two major, well-known acts in one weekend is attributable partly to the healthy allowance of funds to the Union by the College. Tickets were sold to these concerts, however, to help pay for the entertainment.

“It’s a matter of arithmetic, the revenue pays for a part of the show. We took in $950 for Weisberg and about $2500 for Brubeck. This paid half of our expenses for bringing them here,” said Assistant Director of the Union Rush. “A lot of us who are paying 1 or 2 dollars to see a first-rate concert don’t realize that we would be paying 2 or 3 times as much in Charlotte,” said Smith.

A lot of students also don’t realize that the Union currently has enough money in reserve to pay for Mid-Winters without it costing the students anything. “The Union currently has enough money to have financed both the Weisberg and Brubeck concerts in its till. The things we did for Mid-Winters could have come right out of the till, but it would have stymied our program in the future. If we can pay $1000-$3000 for (See UNION, page 6) students with this 60 percent figure in mind.”

Some Davidson administrators posit that Davidson must remain a regional school if it is to keep its enrollment at an acceptable rate. Over 70 percent of the Davidson student body is drawn from five southern states: North Carolina, Georgia, Virginia, South Carolina, and Florida. “We visit only a very few states for recruitment purposes outside of the southeast,” confirmed another member of the admissions staff. “We do draw some students from Pennsylvania and Ohio. And, we do or have done some recruiting in these areas.”

“This leads me to believe that if we do more recruiting outside the southeast that we will receive more applicants from other regions. Yes, I believe we can recruit more people from outside of the southeast,” said the staff member. “Davidson is not a heterogeneous place, it’s a pretty homogeneous place, and this may not be good.”

Bevan also commented on the regional base of Davidson College. “A lot of schools are going to stand or fall on their admissions. Coupled with the endowment, tuition is the most important source of income for a college. Davidson is a regional school. We recognize that. Yet more and more we have been getting students from outside the Southeast. We must continue to maintain a strong regional base but also reach out beyond the region. With college admissions declining across the nation, there are going to be people reaching into our region that haven’t done so before. So, we’re going to have to strengthen our regional base and search for good students from other areas,” said Bevan.

A student committee on admissions was formed in December of 1974 under the leadership of sophomore Karl Goodhouse. “We met only twice and I’ve had to turn over the committee to Bo Baskin.” Assistant Directors of Admissions Larry J. Barr and Duff Bruce have expressed interest in the student committee on admissions and financial aid. “We met a few times but mainly for organizational purposes. I see it (the work of the committee) as taking away some of the mystery that surrounds admissions procedures,” said Barr.