October 10, 1975

The Davidsonian

By-laws bring students to their knees...

By BILL BOND
Associate Editor

Late one night this summer, I sat down in front of the TV set with a glass of cold milk,
some el cheapo cookies, and a fairly fried mind to watch the Reverend Ike tell me about prayer. “Never kneel
when you pray!” he exclaimed to his faithful viewers, or at that time of night, just me. “When you pray,
you get what you put yourself in a position to receive. When you kneel the only thing you are in
a position to receive is a kick in the ass.”

Theologically that is probably as sound as the last paper you wrote for the religion class you had to take
to graduate, but there is a smidgen of common sense to it all. You do get what you put yourself
in a position to receive most of the time. This is something that one should realize before graduating and going
out into the “real world.” Luckily for us all, Davidson College may be preparing to teach this to us, in
terms of what rights students will be guaranteed.

Some time ago, a constitution was passed by students with a Bill of Rights which stated which rights and obligations
would be placed upon students. This has not been passed by the faculty, nor by the Board of Trustees. The
reason is simple: fear. This is easily seen by looking at the two major issues before the Governance Committee of
the Board of Trustees, which is in the process of squaring its by-laws with the proposed constitution.

The first issue is the right to censor student publications sponsored by the College. The second issue is the right
of the President of the College to suspend any activity, subject to affirmation by the Board of Trustees. As the
Governance Committee has yet to come out with any proposals concerning censorship, let's look now at the second issue.

As the by-laws stand now, President Spencer has the right to suspend for an undetermined length of time any activity
which he feels might not be in the interests of the College. Any activity, whether sponsored by an official or
unofficial group composed of students or faculty members. The only restraint upon this power is that his action is subject
to approval by the Board of Trustees.

To give you an example of what this means, suppose the Open End committee decides to bring in a radical
member of the Charlotte School Board to speak, or the K.A.’s decide to hold a party that would have done
any Roman emperor proud. The President of the College could suspend the event until the Board of Trustees could vote
on the issue. It would be possible, then, to hold up the event until the end of the year when
it would be too late to be held.

Wednesday, the Governance Committee proposed an amendment which would for the first time curtail this power. The amendment states that
the President could suspend an event only seven days, subject to Board approval. This is a step in the right
direction, and I frankly think that the committee deserves praise for taking this first step. I emphasize, however, the word
first.

First of all, why is such a power given? “Why, to protect the school’s reputation!” replies Joe Trustee, and this
is a fine answer, for the school basically sells its reputation to prospective students. Still, consider with me for a
moment the situation. According to the members’ of the Governance Committee memories, the power has never been used, would be
used only in extreme situations, and, in fact, would probably never be used.

Second, if an event is a one-time possibility, a suspension is simply six days too long.

Third, a gut response. When have students or faculty groups, either official or spontaneous, ever shown themselves to be untrustworthy?
If no instance can be given, such a rule is somewhat a slap in the face.

Frankly, I am very bothered by the rule. One reason is that I am a big believer in Ralph Gleason’s
First Rule: no matter how paranoid you are, they are doing more than you think. The fact that the power
is being limited may make it easier to rationalize.its use at a later date, an event that would be distressing
if not outright intolerable. The main reason, however, is that it again shows that First Chambers still sees Davidson students
as children who must be watched over and protected from outsiders and themselves. To accept this attitude is to agree
to that outlook; to become America’s new niggers, to use Dick Gregory’s words; to kneel down so that we are
in a position to be kicked. Of course, I am not suggesting that this is probable. Still, as one member
of the Governance Committee suggested Wednesday, we have to assume that the people to be dealt with are malevolent, and
we have to protect ourselves. This can be done simply. The night of October 16 at 9:30 P.M. in the
Morrison Room of the Student Union, the Board of Trustees will be at a reception. Go and start off the
Homecoming weekend right with an action that might guarantee you the freedom to have any event in the future you
wish at future Homecomings by going to tell the Board that you are against (or, horrors, for) the rule as
it stands now and in the compromise form. It might be fun to meet Dean Rusk, et al., and give
them a chance to tell you why you can/can’t be trusted. It may also be important to you that you
are dealt with by the College as a trusted, standing up, adult.

Oblong program confines players

Knights expresses pet peeves with misplaced college priorities

To the Editor:

As we all should know, there are various residence hall regulations in effect at this college. As we all should
know, they are all strictly enforced. (There is also an Easter Bunny).

Letters

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

One of the things prohibited in residence halls is pets. I have sinned. I have kept a pet in my
room. Now Big Brother has spoken. I have until Monday to rid my room of this menace to public health
and safety, or I will be brought before the Student Hearing Committee. I guess it would be fairly easy to
find a place for my dog off campus. But I’m not sure if this is what I should do. Maybe
there is a larger question of college priorities involved.

This year the school has decided to crack down on the terrible problem of mangy and sexually perverted pets on
campus. A decision made without any student input. Yet, what about college renting of “substandard” housing? What about possible discriminatory
practices in regard to policies which cover employee hiring and advancement? What about probable ‘unethical’ policies of the Wildcat basketball
program? (If we can talk of ethics in regards to our administration). What about the college’s refusal to get a
qualified coach for the women’s basketball team, and to allow the formation of a women’s field hockey team? Would it
be safe to assume they are not going all out to conform with Title IX, requiring appropriate funds for both
male and female athletics. What priority has been given to these items?

During the Vietnam conflict, people were jailed for burning scraps of paper, and decorated for burning human bodies with napalm.
I’m not claiming that these two issues are related directly, but I do think they both reflect the amount of
value which is held for people, and the absurdity under which the system operates. Like our national administration, Davidson closes
its eyes to policies which degrade and oppress fellow humans, and cracks down on minor matters. We too have our
doubletalk and even an official college church and college publication to praise us.

Why am I writing this? Who the hell knows. Maybe I’m releasing my pent-up frustrations. Maybe I think it all
really matters. Maybe I’m trying to get my name in the paper. I’ll probably buckle under to the system anyway.
But perhaps it will cause a few people to think (without their teachers’ permission). Perhaps college priorities will be changed.
Perhaps there really is an Easter Bunny.

Jim Knights ’75
Davidson College
