February 6, 1975
The Davidsonian

By CHUCK HARMON
Associate Editor

“A man is never a Christian; he is only becoming one.”
—Martin Luther

“There is no such thing as a Christian college, only Christians in college.”
—Alexander J. McKelway

“Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian faith, it (the
college) sees Jesus Christ as the central fact in history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.”

Any discussion of Davidson as a “Christian, church-related” college must, and indeed always does, begin with these words from the
college’s statement of purpose. But what do they mean? How does that amorphous Christian commitment affect the life of the
college? Certainly, a lot of ink has been spilled over this tired issue. But that is because it is such
a greasy item, perhaps intentionally so, in order that those responsible for its implications might themselves maintain a rather slippery
posture in regard to its implementation. Yet surely if the college takes these words seriously—and any glance into the massive
file of notes and memoranda on the subject in recent years will amply demonstrate that it does—somehow you must be
affected. How is it then that this nebulous concept of a Christian college determines who is here both in terms
of students and staff and what goes on during their stay? How is Christian commitment to be interpreted? What conflicts
does it produce, either potential or real? Finally, who cares?

Students are by virtue of their roles, temporary fixtures in the life of the college. They come and go with
the passage of time. But amidst all of this transience, the faculty is forever. Professors loom over the elm-spotted landscape
much like the chambermaids, once here, always. Permanence, security, tenure, ay, there’s the rub! Tenure is the magic word and
here lies the focus of the issue of Christian commitment from an angle of the faculty.

“It is natural and desirable that the educational service of a church-related college should be carried forward from one generation
to another by persons committed to the faith of its founders.” So reads the most recent statement of the Board
of Trustees in regard to the tenure issue. It goes on to say, “The Christian commitment from the church-related college
is reflected not only in its corporate policies, programs, and stewardship of resources, but most especially in the Christian commitment
of the individuals who make up the community, particularly its officers and tenured faculty members.”

This is all well and good, and in fact, the trustees are to be commended for their proposed relaxation of
the requirement in this respect that, “in view of the fact that the Christian community has always had a place
for the reverent seeker, the trustees may in special circumstances grant tenure to a person who respects the Christian tradition
without commitment to all its tenets.” Yet though this is a welcome change long hoped for by many members of
the college community, the trustees refuse to set quantitative guidelines for such instances, citing only the “extraordinary circumstances” which might
bring about such an appointment, and stating that “such cases will necessarily be rare.”

The crucial issue in regard to tenure still seems to be the basic responsibility the college has of securing faculty
members who will strengthen the college intellectually, morally, and spiritually. The trustees’ statement continues, “The president shall be responsible to
the trustees for being certain that each person employed as a member of the Faculty and Staff, at the time
of his or her appointment, is prepared conscientiously to uphold and seek to increase its effectiveness as a church-related college.”
The question which confronts one in examination of the tenure issue is whether or not it indeed facilitates the effectiveness
of the institution as a “church-related college.” The great disadvantage of the tenure system, as everyone is willing to admit,
is that here, like any other place, it has the tendency to harbor incompetence in its officials. What can be
done about the (See CHURCH, page 8) that the entire faculty be composed of Christians.

Faith Without Work
Bartonus Questions Humane Instincts

By R. DAVID KAYLOR
Professor of Religion

“As a college committed to the historic Christian faith..., Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts, of
disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.” I have
always liked that statement, and am proud (though not overweeningly so, mind you!) to be a small part of an
institution with such an exalted ideal. Therefore, when asked to write an essay on the meaning of our “Christian commitment,”
I was glad to oblige. Davidson’sChristian commitment - (Expletive deleted) it! Just when I had my thoughts all organized, and
was on the verge of writing about our institutional hopes and goals--about the way we care about persons, the way
we are open to the truth, the way we are free from any limitations upon our learning, the way we
are a worshipping community, the way we choose for faculty members men and women who are not only competent but
also committed, and other good ideas like those--my friend James Barfonus interrupted the flow of my thoughts with an impertinent
question: “How can you talk about the Christian commitment of an institution which admittedly ‘caters to a group of financially
elite,’ whose primary function is to serve as a staging ground for the offspring of the affluent on their way
to greater affluence? I thought Jesus said something about ministering to the poor, the outcast, the ag Do you have
any of those around y ad ; . Fortunately I looked out the window of my carpeted and well-lit office
and saw one of that type walking across campus; but unfortunately, just as I pointed him out to James a
security officer pointed him off the campus. Deprived of my example of our Christian concern, I resorted to reason. “James,”
I said, “you just don’t understand the practical problems we face in deciding how we can best express our commitment.
I wish we could do more for the less fortunate, but I do want a job, and not only that,
I need a more adequate salary than I have now. The poor can’t support me, where the financially elite will
let some of it trickle down to me. A college can’t survive as a social service organization, can it?”

“And just think of the good I can do, pricking the consciences of the affluent as they pass through, prodding
them, reluctant though they may be, in a more liberal, humanitarian direction. Why, one of them might even be inspired
by our Christian influence to do an expose on slum housing! You certainly can’t accuse us of being in the
business for the money; we are not getting rich while we help dispense the degrees which become stepping stones on
the way to lives of humanitarian service. Even if I can’t afford to minister directly to the poor, etc., I
can help to educate the future physicians and lawyers who will sacrificially give their lives to eradicating the diseases and
injustices to which the poor are subject; and think of the future businessmen who will be motivated by their liberal
education to give themselves to raising the standard of living for the poor, and the future ministers who will preach
from the pulpits of their tall-steepled churches! When we are faced with such limitless opportunities as that, how could we
afford to exhaust ourselves trying to deal with the poor?

“Imagine what would happen if in a rash of do-goodism we started running after the poor and outcast and neglected
our noble task of training the future leaders of state and church. Think of what might happen to our country
without our graduates in congress, in government, and in the decision-making positions of the churches; why, our political, economic and
religious institutions might cease having as their primary concern the well-being of all, including the downtrodden. Not only that, our
college would not survive. It has been stated on good authority that unless at least 60 percent of our students
come from homes having above $20,000 incomes, we cannot survive. You must not forget how dependent Davidson College is upon
the present social structure nor must you forget how the survival of that social structure and its humanitarian ideals is
dependent upon colleges like Davidson. We have to begin with that fundamental relationship, and only then can we begin to
talk meaningfully about any other implications of Christian commitment. Anyway, do you think the poor would properly appreciate our skills
and our learning? Why throw our pearls before swine? Besides, we do let a poor guy in once in a
while, and even give him a scholarship if he shows enough promise of being like us.”

I wasn’t nearly finished with my logical explanation of the realities confronting a first-class educational institution with a Christian commitment
when my friend James Barfonus said “bullshit” and went out muttering something about ‘faith without works.’ Oh, well, good riddance.
Now I can get back to my dissertation on Christian commitment. One of the primary ways in which the Christian
commitment of Davidson College expresses itself is in its concern for the well-being of persons.

Whatever you want, we've got
ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C. Ph. 664-5118
