December 12, 1975

The Davidsonian

CUFFE Four Contest SGA

By STEPHEN BELL
Senior News Editor

Students will elect a new SGA vice-president next week from the following four: Steve Cuffe, Joe Logan, Marc Menchel, and
Carol Watkins.

The SGA By-Laws recognize two primary responsibilities of the SGA vice-president: chairman of the Resident Hall Association and vice-president of
the SGA Senate.

Sophomore Steve Cuffe commented on the first of these roles, “The main responsibility of the RHA is to make sure
their money is spent in the best way. The RHA should find out student opinion beforehand. Right now they’re talking
of buying kitchen facilities. Personally, I think that’s a good idea.”

Cuffe is in the midst of his term as Belk dormitory senator. Said Cuffe of the vice-president’s role in the
Senate, “I would be first of all an advisor to the president. Secondly, I would try to assist the president
in whatever he decides. Problems of unity in the Senate would only hinder the progress of the Senate.”

Junior Joe Logan emphasized the vice-president’s duties on the RHA. “I’m the only one of the candidates who has been
on the RHA before,” he said. “I really think we should have kitchen facilities for the dorms. Our dorms aren’t
nearly as well equipped as those at other schools. Another thing I would work for would be a hostel in
the Ney Room at Rusk House. And I think the RHA can make some impact on the college housing policy.
Next year, when the dorm limit is reached, will definitely be crucial.”

Logan served as a dorm senator from Belk last year, but he is the only one of the four candidates
not currently in the Senate. “Steve, Carol, and Marc are all in the Senate now. If they win they’ll be
resigning their seats as dorm senators. To many people this would be OK, but I don’t think it would be
that responsible.”

Concerning the vice-president’s duties in the Senate, Logan said, “So much emphasis is put on the vice-president as chairman of
the RHA. In the Senate I would work for things concerned with the RHA and student life.”

Junior Marc Menchel has served in the Senate for three months, and says of outgoing Vice-President Lynne Keener’s performance in
the office, “Lynne had to reorganize the RHA. This is what was needed to be done, and this is what
she did by revising the RHA By-Laws. But now the job doesn’t need to be so administrative. I would like
the RHA to be a service to students, to help people plan parties: not just giving away money, but a
more active, creative RHA.”

Hearing (Continued from page 4)

consider myself qualified for such a post. I could, like some candidates, add a string of platitudes, but I do
not choose to do so.”

Jeff Metzel—“I am not running on the basis of any specific issues. The office is not of that nature. In
such a position, one judges solely on the basis of prudence and sound reasoning. I run, therefore, only on my
desire to help and the ability to judge fairly.”

Sam Weir—“Our community at Davidson is unique in that it assumes a much greater degree of responsibility and freedom (on
its constituents) than most other communities. It is out of a deep sense of this responsibility that I seek membership
on the Student Hearing Committee.”

Class of ’79

Paul Bradley—“I am seeking this office because I feel that the Hearing Committee is an important part...of the Honor System
at Davidson. The Committee... determines the path which the Honor Code will follow.” Bill Barnett—“I feel that the Honor System
and Code of Responsibility is asked to make.”

LOGAN Menchel gave strongest emphasis to the role of the vice-president in the Senate. “The most valuable thing a vice-president
can do is to assist the president in formulating policy. This should happen, not at the Tuesday Senate meetings, but
at the Senate Executive Committee meetings.

“The central problem is communication. It is the job of the vice-president to communicate with students and to help the
president communicate with the students.”

Like Menchel, Junior Carol Watkins has served in the Senate since September. She has chaired the Staff of Life task
committee and is organizing a poll of all students on laundry and security issues. Watkins appraised Keener’s performance on the
RHA. “I think she’s done well in that the meetings are more regular now. But I would tackle some more
of the big issues.

“The main issue is the kitchen facilities for every dorm. This would save people a lot of money. And I’d
push for more fire security in the dorm rooms; they need to have rope ladders.”

Watkins said of the vice-president’s role in the Senate, “I wouldn’t be so much an assistant to the president. I
have many ideas of my own. I would keep my personal autonomy pretty much.”

Committee candidates are integral and important facets of life here at D.C., and I would like to do my part
to uphold these traditions and ensure their proper function.” Alex Bass—“I feel that as a student I have an obligation
to take an active part, or at least to have a voice, in student government... I feel that I can
fulfill the duties of this office to the best of my abilities.”

Russell Folger—“I am running because I am interested in the Code of Responsibility and its implications for students, and in
seeing that those who are tried are done so fairly before an impartial board.”

Doug Horn—“I feel the responsibility of the Hearing Committee is to act as a jury during a trial, and more
importantly, to promote respect for and understanding of the Honor Code among Davidson students.”

Bob McQuade—“I think the Code of Responsibility is one of the most important aspects of life at Davidson and I
believe the job of enforcing this code requires a great deal of responsibility and effort which I am willing to
give.”

Maria Patterson—“Basically (I am seeking this office) because I feel I am well qualified for the job and could serve
the campus if elected to this office.”

Steve Porter—“I think that the Honor System is one of the greatest things about Davidson and I would like to
be involved with it and help see that it is maintained.”

Steve Sellers—“The Hearing Committee is a very important group of students and needs competent members. I feel that I could
fill one of these positions and perform the required duties.”

Warren Soule—“I am seeking office to afford the Class of 1979: a representative with prior experience in SGA affairs; a
participant in the process which governs the college; and a representative sensitive to student wishes and opinions.”

Jamie Watt—“The Student Hearing Committee requires responsibility and maturity from its members and I believe I have both of these
qualities. To be able to use these characteristics would be one way for me to get involved in the judiciary
system at Davidson.”
