December 12, 1975

The Davidsonian

Cagers Drop Opening Contests

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College girls’ basketball team opened its schedule this week with losses to Clemson and Pfeiffer. On Saturday, the
team traveled to Clemson and dropped a heartbreaking 55-51 decision.

“It was a very even match,” said assistant coach Ken Schmader. “The lead went back and forth, and we just
happened to be on the wrong end at the final buzzer.” Renee Soos led the Wildkittens with 16 points, and
Donna Sherrill added 14.

“We were disappointed with the outcome,” commented Schmader, “but we looked good considering we had only been back practicing for
a week. Our full-court press looked good,” he added. “That is what kept us in the game.”

On Wednesday evening, the girls from Pfeiffer invaded Johnston Gym and handed the Kittens a 67-50 loss. Pfeiffer started quickly,
jumping out to an 8-4 lead after two minutes. With 12 minutes left in the half, Pfeiffer was ahead 16-12,
but Davidson spurted to take their only lead at 18-16. Pfeiffer quickly went back on top 20-18, and with 6:30
remaining in the half, they had stretched the lead to 26-20. Sherrill cut that in half with a three-point play.
But Pfeiffer scored three straight baskets to take a nine-point lead with four minutes to go.

The teams traded baskets until the half, with Nancy Matheny’s buzzer basket making the halftime score 36-29. The second half
was all downhill for the Kittens. Pfeiffer opened up a 13-point lead with only four minutes gone in the half,
capitalizing on a number of fast-break opportunities and Davidson turnovers. At the 12-minute mark, the score was 50-35. The Kittens
were unable to muster an offense against Pfeiffer’s tight man-to-man defense, and Pfeiffer was able to control the backboards. Davidson
was often limited to one shot while Pfeiffer managed a number of second and third efforts. With only minutes left
in the game, Pfeiffer opened up a 20-point lead, at 64-44, and coasted in with a 67-50 victory.

“We did not play well,” said Schmader. “We were not working the ball in well, and we were not setting
picks.” Schmader did give credit to Pfeiffer for a fine performance. “Pfeiffer runs.”

Washburn Sets 2 School Marks

Tankers Crush Pfeiffer, Diving Facilities Removed

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s swimming team opened its season with a lopsided 77-33 victory over Pfeiffer College, despite forfeiting 16 points for not
having diving facilities. Sophomore Jonathan Washburn and Freshman Tim Bode led the team, winning two events apiece. Washburn’s performance was
particularly impressive as he set school records in both the 200-yard Individual Medley and the 200-yard Breaststroke. Bode, swimming long-distance
events, won the 500- and 1000-yard Freestyle events while Skip Barkley, John Frederick, and Sophomore Marshall Brown also picked up
first-place finishes.

Coach Pat Drake was pleased with her team’s initial performance and feels that individual times will continue to improve as
Davidson faces tougher competition. “Jonathan Washburn broke two school records in the first meet and I believe that he’ll continue
to break records in nearly all of the meets. Tim Bode is...”a fine distance swimmer of the calibre of John
Scholer, who we lost to graduation last year, and will probably be even better,” she noted.

Despite these bright spots, the Davidson swimming program will be hampered this year by the removal of the school’s diving
board. As a result, the swimming team will automatically forfeit 16 points to nearly all of this season’s opponents. Safety
considerations dictated the removal of the facility. “Last year we had several kids hit the rafters and several others hit
the bottom of the pool. We decided to remove the board this year before someone got seriously hurt,” Drake explained.

Davidson totally dominated Pfeiffer despite the forfeited points. But Drake feels that against some of the team’s other opponents those
points could be an important factor. A few teams, however, such as UNC-Asheville and The Citadel, (See SWIMMERS, page 18)

Davidson’s rifle team opened its season with a win over North Carolina A&T last Saturday, by a score of 1137
to 1106. Ben Simms posted the highest standing score of the meet and led both teams with a 261 total.
Simms barely missed 15 perfect bull-eyes. Davidson’s Tom Miller was second man in the meet, shooting the meet’s highest prone
and kneeling scores, but fell off in his standing score to record a 249. Other Wildcat riflemen were Junior Curt
Goho, placing fourth in the meet with a 233, Junior Bob Shoulders with a 198, and Junior Rob Mitchell with
a 196. Freshmen Kathrine Whitney’s 191 and Andrew MacDonald’s 186 were not counted in the team total. A number of
other shooters, including three-year Team Captain Pete Goodman, were unable to make the meet in Greensboro.

“The Rifle Team is young this year,” according to Coach Jerry Flanigan, with only four returning lettermen. “Although the match
was uneventful in relation to individual accomplishment, it marked the beginning of a truly eventful year, a winning season,” concluded
Flanigan. The Rifle Team's next match will be after Christmas, against Georgia Tech in Atlanta on January 10.

the ball well, and they played 40 minutes of good basketball,” he said. Renee Soos had to leave the game
in the second half after being knocked unconscious in a fall to the floor. She was taken to the infirmary,
but there was no word on her condition. “I think seeing Renee down upset the team,” said Schmader, “but I
am not using that as an excuse. We were just outplayed.”

Davidson committed 38 turnovers to Pfeiffer’s 24, and were outrebounded 56-42. Pfeiffer’s Kim Dudney led all scorers with 26 points,
and pulled down a game-high 19 rebounds. Donna Sherrill led the Cattes with 22 points and 10 rebounds. Beth Tanner
and Nancy Matheny each chipped in 10 points for the Cattes. The girls’ next contest will be against Catawba in
Johnston Gym, on Monday night at 6:30.

— Jonathan Washburn

starts toward a school record.

—Irv Wilson

you can’t find in larger

ouch that helps make

k for people. So if you

etting the best of you,

st of your bank...at Pied-

BANK

int, then it’s

k at Piedmont
