The Davidsonian
January 30, 1975

Corea Explores Keyboard Versatility
By ERNEST F. GLENN
Staff Writer

Chick Corea’s music is a cross-section of contemporary jazz. On the albums reviewed here, Corea shows himself as uniquely versatile
in the varieties of modern music often labeled jazz for lack of a better term. Corea’s evolution as a keyboard
player can be traced in the chronological order of the records.

“Inner Space” is a recently released album of songs recorded in the late sixties. This date becomes evident in the
styles of the pieces. John Coltrane’s influence appears strongly in an entire record of the two-disc set. “Litha” and “Tones
for Joan’s Bones” feature swinging sax solos from Joe Farrell, running up and down the scales like Coltrane did so
often. Brushes on the snare keep these songs easy, enjoyable listening. Corea’s piano primarily supplies rhythmic backup for the long
sax solos but also branches out into excursions of broad chords and long runs. The second LP in the “Inner
Space” set consists of chamber music. Corea exhibits another facet of his piano skill in these very soft, complex pieces.

By BOB ENRIGHT
Staff Writer

We now present as a special to all you freshmen, the Insider’s Guide to Self-Selection as a helpful afterthought following
the big event. Special thanks go out to all those who contributed the following write-ups.

PHI DELTA THETA—Although Phi Delta Theta is more oriented toward social activities, the food is still good. Recently two new
cooks were hired, and big ideas for new servings are indicated by the improved fare offered. Monday through Friday both
hot lunch and dinner are served. Only lunch is served on Saturday. Sunday’s lunch is the week’s biggest meal, usually
featuring ham, roast beef, or barbecued chicken. Sunday dinner is a cold-cut/leftover affair, often turning out to be much better
than expected. A continental breakfast is served at the 10:00 hour every Monday through Friday morning.

FANNIE AND MABLE—Fannie and Mable, for whom the house was named, have been preparing the best meals on the court
for nearly thirty years. The house is composed of a diverse and yet closely-knit section of the student body. The
close relationships between the members can be attributed in part to the comparatively small size of the house. Each freshman
is allowed multiple options concerning social affiliations, that of being a member of Fannie and Mable, the Phi Gamma Delta
national fraternity; however, the social interaction between the two groups is as prevalent as each group individually.

PIKA—The rumor states that this house eats faster than any other on the court. This is very true as plates
are passed out faster than you can say “hamburger.” Even though the food passes in and out, there is always
enough left over on the third or fourth time around. One main reason for Pika’s famed “fast meals” is probably
because of the quality of the food. All of the houses on the court boast of having the best food,
but Pika certainly rates the top. For the people who wish to relax before and after a meal, this house
is noted for its variety of card games (hearts, spades, and bridge). Pika is also enhanced by a new stereo
system, a new rug, and a nice basement which contains a color TV, bar, and pool table. Pika is also
very socially active when it comes to parties. One neglected point about Pika is that there is no pressure or
hassle on rushing nationals. Whether a member is national or not, the Pika house is a good place for eating
and entertainment.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON—Meals Monday through Friday at the SAE house are centered around moderate lunches and plentiful dinners. On weekends,
Saturday lunch and Sunday lunch and dinner are served. The Sunday lunch is without a doubt the most prized meal
the SAE boarder claims. As far as price is concerned, the economical-minded freshman should also note that the SAE house
is competitive with every other house on the court. In conclusion, the SAE house strives for well-balanced meals at the
lowest price possible.

KAPPA ALPHA—Kappa Alpha is a home for gracious living and fine Southern hospitality. This tradition is upheld with a Sunday
lunch fit for a gentleman and his date. Kappa Alpha not only offers the usual three meals a day but
continental breakfast during the mid-morning break. Although the meals are good, Kappa Alpha is mainly oriented towards excellent social life,
and the social budget is often used to complement the usual fare with occasional cookouts—steaks, hot dogs, hamburgers, oysters, and/or
broiled chicken. For those worried about the money, KA has a competitive board fee with more opportunities for one’s social
life.

Melodic Piano contains a subtle blending of the tones of these instruments. This album itself reveals the diverse threads of
the jazz world today, from traditional freewheeling improvising to tight interplay and structure among a group of instruments. Another double
LP set featuring Corea among others is “Circle,” a concert recorded in Paris. In these records, the music has expanded
into far-out experiments with multiple rhythms and atonality. David Holland plays his usual outstanding bass and takes several long solos.
Anthony Braxton plays like Coltrane and Ornette Coleman in some of the very avant-garde pieces like “Lookout Farm” and “Toy
Room.” “Circle” shows improvisational jazz at its best in both the pieces themselves and the fact that it is a
live performance. Standard procedure on the songs, like “Song for the Newborn” and “Duet,” is to establish an easy, recognizable
melody and then expand it to the outer reaches of coherence both rhythmically and melodically.reed instruments, again echoing melodically, then
return to the original tune. It offers the close-knit relationship of friends and a strong national fraternity membership.

EMANON - Emanon is without a doubt an amazing phenomenon, for it has a complementary mixture of low board and
bon nourriture. The food is more than the average connoisseur would expect from such a truly Davidson group of students
(what’s that?). The cooks are the friendly people down at Emanon; everyone else is too busy playing bridge or discussing
irrelevant topics to jump on newcomers when they arrive. Except for once last term when dinner was for breakfast and
breakfast was for dinner, the meals are well planned and there’s almost always plenty. Actually, Emanon might be called Noname
for there is a diverse group there, and there is no way to generalize the atmosphere, except perhaps that it
is magnificently adequate.

ATO - A meal at ATO is the kind of dining experience that produces ascetics eager to explore the opportunities
offered by fasting. The best way to prepare for lunch is by not eating breakfast, hoping that despite the lack
of any other motivation, the primal drive of hunger will spur you on. The anguished claim of the anemic lunch
bell sends the masses rumbling into the dining room, where they square off with hamburgers, hot dogs, soup, casseroles, or
train wrecks (?-ed.). The only delight is a Turkish one, which is occasionally heard over the speaker despite vigorous protest.
Supper is a slightly more substantial meal which retains one feature which the Fordian economy has stolen from lunch: dessert.
This austerity is also reflected in unsweetened tea and the tasteless packets of surrogate sugar. Other features of the zeroic
cuisine are Friday night lasagna, crunchy peanut butter, and the omnipresent bean casserole. Sunday night gives one a harrowing sense
of déjà vu, as the understandably neglected dishes of the past week return to haunt the clientele. All in all,
there is never a dull moment in the culinary world of ATO, as the usual edible entities are doled out
to inflict pleasure and pain.

PAX - The brothers of Rho Alpha Chi are no more. PAX finally went officially co-ed last term (thanks to
Tricia and Van) and there is a hoped-for increase in female membership in prospect for next year. The food at
PAX has been consistently good, and the hierarchy is always open to meal suggestions, including steak dinners on big weekends
(but without the steak). The house features a continental breakfast at 10:10 a.m. The members of PAX, though not associated
with national fraternities, are close-knit and friendly, and consistently have strong intramural representation. Featuring such teams as the Loveable Dwarfs,
the Zees, and Rumpa-Titty-Boon-Bah (with Thompkins “Dr. T” Foster). There is widespread participation. The house also features pool tournaments once
per term, Risk tournaments on occasion, and poker tournaments whenever Slagle and Ellison can find enough turkeys to play.

ETC - ETC was founded last year by a group of Independents for Independents. A coed house, most of its
members are sophomores. The membership is versatile, however, and ranges from independents to fraternity members, “jocks” to “flys.” Etcetera combines
a diverse social life with some of the best food in the Court—only Fanny and Mabel’s can compare.

NEXT WEEK - Who Knows? The recording is excellent; the crowd adds to the freshness and detracts nothing from the
performance. Most recently, Corea has released three records with his new group Return To Forever. Sharply contrasting with his earlier
work, these LPs provide good examples of the new “jazz-rock.” Highly electrified, “Where Have I Known You Before” and “Hymn
of the Seventh Galaxy” feature Corea on not only the piano but also the electric piano, clavinet, organ, harpsichord, synthesizers,
and gongs. Corea makes the electric piano sound like a real instrument, not just a regular piano underwater. His amazing
solos on songs like “Captain Señor Mouse,” and the rhythmic complexities of songs like “Space Circus,” maintain the flavor of
jazz. Mystic, oriental, and cosmic titles occur most often on these two LPs. Vulcan Worlds, Earth Juice, The Shadow of
Lo, and Theme to the Mothership typify the airy, sometimes nebulous moods of the songs. Jazz purists can make a
good case for accusing Corea of selling out to the rock market in these records. But to paraphrase Dave Brubeck,
it’s hard to condemn someone for his music when he is putting his soul into it, simply because the music
doesn’t conform to some label. On these later albums, Corea mixes soft electric and acoustic sounds with the loud. And
in his concerts, he devotes as much time to “educating his audience” with complete jazz, as Brubeck said, as he
does to pleasing them with electric sound. Any of the records show Corea as a keyboard performer of the highest
class. At least the electric instruments are in the hands of someone skilled in the piano itself. And men like
Corea will give the synthesizers a character they have not known in the hands of less competent musicians.

Happenings
By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

February 1, the City Center Acting Company presents Goldsmith’s SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER at N.C. State’s Stewart Theatre. Shy suitors,
stolen jewels, and the antics of Tony Lumpkin—a character both comic and catalyst—should make this worth lots of laughs. Tickets
are $4.00; call 737-3105 in Raleigh for reservations.

On the music scene, ‘Grand Funk Railroad’ plays at the Carolina Coliseum in Columbia, S.C. on Jan. 31. They come
to the Charlotte Coliseum Feb. 2. Jacob Rardin and John McCormack will play in Clemson January 31, as will the
band “Hydra.” “Rufus” plays at Rock Hill, South Carolina on the first. The Royal Lipizzan Stallion Show will be at
The Citadel in Charleston the first and second of February.
