November 14, 1975

the davidsonian

Ship Ahoy: Davidson sailors practice for the Championships to be held at Lake Norman this weekend.

-Leon Venable

Tankers eye good season despite lost diving facilities

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

The eleven-member Davidson College swimming team is now going through pre-season practice under coach Pat Drake. Drake expects this season
to be a successful one, and looks forward to improved times and an improvement on last year’s 3-9 record.

“There’s one holdup, though,” she said. “Our diving facilities have been taken away, which means we forfeit sixteen points a
meet under NCAA scoring.”

She has written the teams against which the Cats will be competing, requesting they compete with Davidson on a swimming
basis only.

“That’s up to them, however,” she said. “If they don’t want to just swim us, we can’t do anything about
it.”

This year’s team has lost distance record-holder John Scholler to graduation, but Drake expects freshman Tim Bodie to equal Scholler’s
times and sophomore Mike Knowles to add distance depth.

In the sprints, junior John MacArthur and freshman John Fredrick should be a successful pair, backed by sophomore Tom Horn.
MacArthur will also help out in the backstroke, complementing Skip Bradley, a freshman who will swim the individual medley as
well.

Drake expects sophomore John Washburn to do well in the individual medley and break both his breaststroke records. Freshman breaststroker
Ken Noorwood shows potential while sophomore Marshall Brown and junior Ron Owens should be point-getters in the butterfly.

Drake expects a “good, exciting season.” Discounting the automatic sixteen-point deficit, Davidson swimmers may be able to win six of
their twelve meets. Teams which the Cats will compete well against include Emory, The Citadel, Pfeiffer, UNC Asheville, Augusta College,
and possibly Appalachian.

“I’d like to make our schedule realistic,” said Drake, “and I think I’m getting there.”

JV team in limbo, lack of interest cited

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

Davidson College may not have a junior varsity basketball program this year.

“No firm decision has been made,” said head basketball coach Bo Brickels. “But the way things look now, I would
guess there will be no JV.”

A final decision must be made shortly, so that the opposing teams can be notified in the event the program
is dropped, according to Brickels.

The decision will be made jointly by Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill, Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch, and Brickels; with final
approval by Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.

Brickels cited three primary reasons for doing away with the team: lack of interest, a mediocre schedule, and little benefit
for the varsity program.

“There was very little initial interest,” said Brickels. “It may have been our fault for not advertising well enough, but
we had only eight or nine players out the first week. If twenty guys had shown up, the question would
have never come up.”

The athletic department had decided to drop the program when a group of eleven interested students asked them to reconsider
their decision.

“Right now we are in a state of limbo,” Brickels commented. “One possible reason for the lack of interest is
the absence of ‘name’ schools on the schedule.”

“The JV schedule is not very good,” said Brickels, “because no one in the Southern Conference has a junior varsity
program this year. In previous years we could count on at least Furman and East Carolina having teams.”

Other schools which usually play Davidson but have likewise dropped their JV programs include Wake Forest, Duke, UNC-C.

“That leaves North Carolina as the only big school on our schedule,” said Brickels. “We have had to resort to
scheduling home-and-home contests with junior colleges, when, before, we never had to bother with traveling to them.”

Brickels sees IMAC as a competitor of the junior varsity.

“With intramurals becoming so competitive,” he noted, “a number of players who would normally be on the JV are choosing
to play in IMAC instead.”

Brickels is undecided about the junior varsity program. He would not mind fielding a team, but foresees little benefit for
the varsity.

“Obviously I would like to have the program or else the games never would have been scheduled,” he added. “Other
factors entering into the decision are expense and gym time. We will save money without having the team,” noted Brickels.
“But that is not very important.”

“However, since we have to share the gym with the girls’ team and the student body, I am not sure
if it is right to ask for one or two more hours of floor time a couple of days each
week.”

“My main problem,” he added, “is that I do not know how the students feel.”

the WORLD FAMOUS

pen Ritchen

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS

375-1449
518 W. MOREHEAD

NEW... BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
The Marx Brothers in

ANIMAL CRACKERS

Friday, Nov. 14
8 & 10:30 P.M.
Love
$1.00

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
