’ The Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.” 
--Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

FOUR APRIL 17, 1975

Give them a chance

The plight of the hourly-paid employee at Davidson College is severe. Many of those who serve as custodians, general helpers/groundsmen, and maintenance-utility men have a weekly take-home pay of under $95. Most must hold down a second job at night in order to help make ends meet at home. They have all but survived on scanty wages and benefits for years.

Also, many employees accuse the administration of discriminatory hiring procedures. While this claim has not been substantiated, it is true that there are no blacks in the three highest hourly-paid positions: maintenance mechanic/carpenter, maintenance electrician, and office-clerical. In any case, it is obvious that the administration has no institutional devices (e.g., a regular promotion plan or an on-the-job training program) which would, at the very least, provide college employees some insurance against discrimination in promotion and development.

The college administration has made some progress in extending various benefits to the hourly-paid staff, yet, as one employee remarked, “We appreciate the benefits, but what good are they if we don’t know how to use them.” We feel it is the administration’s responsibility to fully inform, periodically if necessary, all employees of the benefits to which they are entitled.

Furthermore, we feel that the members of the College community must quickly reorder their budget priorities and extend to the hourly-paid staff higher wage rates which, as one custodian offered, “would give us, the workers, not so much the ability to improve ourselves, but the chance to save our children from a life like ours.” They deserve that chance.

Quips replace Cranks

With over half the student activities fees allocated by the Campus Tax Council going to student publications, we feel that students should reexamine the forms and functions of the Quips and Cranks and The Wildcat Handbook.

The Quips and Cranks is intended to be an informative record of a school year, presented artistically and reflecting the opinions and attitudes of the editor. Yet the informative content of a yearbook, pictures identifying administrators, faculty, staff, and students, are published one year after that material is up-to-date. If the yearbook is to be relatively functional, such information should appear at the beginning of the current school year, not the following year.

As an artistic presentation, a pictorial essay, the yearbook is perhaps the least economical and least suited for such a function. Hard-bound volumes ordered from yearbook companies traditionally arrive late after lengthy and costly production delays, and the format of a yearbook may be one of the most antagonistic to artistic presentation. The yearbook thus serves only as a delight to the alumni office, as a college public relations vehicle, as an advocate for the nostalgia market. And if this be the case, perhaps the administration should compile the material and finance the publication. We doubt seriously that a yearbook serves as an acceptable medium for the functions demanded of it.

Placing the informative content of the yearbook in The Wildcat Handbook, published at the beginning of the school year, seems to us the best alternative. The Wildcat Handbook would serve as a student handbook rather than as one primarily for freshmen. The Quips and Cranks could then be a soft-bound, magazine-style pictorial essay published annually, emphasizing quality photography and graphic design. We feel that such proposals deserve consideration by the students who pay for these publications, and we therefore urge the SGA Senate to hold a campus-wide referendum concerning the futures of student publications.

In no way would we suggest the restructuring of the 1975-76 yearbook for which Editor Randy Hunter has already begun plans and has already received a budget. However, we feel that for the following year, some effort must be made to publish more meaningful student media in forms that can communicate their functions.

Letters to the Editor

Inconsistencies plague coed athletic program

To the Editor:

The intent of this letter is to merely show some very confusing situations that exist at Davidson involving the Davidson women’s athletic program. Options for women athletes are slim but successful here, and their low-key programs allow for much more aesthetic satisfaction than, say, the men’s football or basketball programs, which are not sports anymore but businesses, or as coaches like to put it, “part of the game of life.” (Nice, eh?) Women’s intercollegiate programs exist in basketball and tennis, and female participation is allowed in swimming. Ms. Drake handlesAll the women coaching duties in addition to the swimming head job, while there are a grand total of 16 coaches to handle the weight of the men’s program. In any event, the preceding was a very simple outline of the opportunities available to 184 women students on campus. What actually needs to be related here is a very sad incident that involves no sex discrimination principles of any kind, but a simple “read the fine print,” ‘sleight of hand” play executed by Davidson College.

On Feb. 18, 1975, the Davidson Women’s B-Ball team traveled to play Furman in S.C. As is a custom, Davidson pays students 10¢ a mile to drive their cars to games where mass transportation is not feasible. The exact agreement between the school, coaches, and student-athletes who perform this service is (or was) highly nebulous and thought to be by many just a verbal thing, i.e. “Drive your car and we will pay you, etc.” On the trip home from Furman, Rene Soos, a woman basketball player who drove her car, had engine trouble, and the car had to be towed from around Spartanburg to Charlotte. A few days later it was revealed that the cost of repairing the car would be $1300 for a new engine.

After getting tossed around in the usual sea of red tape, about a week after spring break, we were told that Davidson College has for 12 years had only an agreement to pay mileage money to students who drive their cars. No way Davidson could pay this bill; “Our hands are clean,” they said. So Rene Soos has a $1300 bill and no car, and being a married college student doesn’t exactly find itself conducive to having a quick $1300 lying around for a rainy day. After a letter to Sam Spencer, half the bill is going to be paid, which makes everybody happy, right? Oh sure. I just don’t see how D.C. can expect students to carry their athletic programs around without backing them up in cases like this.

I also know that almost all the players who have dealt with this driving situation were not aware of the athletic department’s so-called limits of responsibility, nor are many of the coaches who are supposed to have seen this memo each year. It’s a good thing indeed. Tell me why anyone should drive their own car for a Davidson athletic contest. There is no reason.

Joe Duncan, ’75
Davidson College

To the Editor:

The article in the April 10 edition of The Davidsonian regarding Union finances and Mr. Smith’s traveling expenditures requires, I believe, some further clarification. While Mr. Smith’s use of Union funds to meet his travel expenses has contributed to the confusion as to the exact state of Union finances, other factors have also contributed to this confusion. The financial accounting system in the past has itself been unclear and never completely worked out. A clear system was never devised partially due to a lack of student initiative and interest. The fact that a viable system was never worked out can also be attributed to the failure of the Union administrative staff to realize the need for a workable system.

In addition, some of the many problems involved in budgeting and accounting have discouraged staff and students alike. Thus, the cause of the confusion of the Union’s finances extends beyond Smith’s use of Union funds to cover his travel expenditures and involves so many factors that it is impossible to blame any one person or group for the problems we have encountered. It is the responsibility, however, of all persons involved to work towards solving the confusion. Since students have finally shown an interest in setting up a viable system, the Union administrative staff has welcomed the move and responded with an effort to carry out their responsibilities in organizing the finances. I have no doubt that all inconsistencies and questionable procedures will be discontinued. Mr. Smith has agreed to set up a separate travel account, and students have made a genuine effort towards structuring an accounting system which will eliminate any questions about its function and reliability. Mr. Currie and Mr. Davidson have agreed also to help us in understanding and dealing with many of the problems involved in forming an accounting system. I wish to thank all those involved for their efforts in working towards a solution.

Richard Wassen, ’76
Union Board President
Davidson College