Two aaa The Davidsonian \ March 20, 1975

Davidson ‘Null And Void’ For Blacks
BSC Seeks Student Recognition

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

“We try to get the college to recognize that we are on the campus and that we have different needs,”
said Marian Perkins, president of the Black Student Coalition. “Our tastes run very different from most activities sponsored by the
Union,” she said.

This is a problem the BSC is trying to overcome this week by sponsoring black-oriented films, the Broadway production of
“The River Niger,” Saturday’s concert by Ripple, and the following party in Chamber’s basement.

Before this week, however, there has been very little publicized of the BSC’s activities. “Hopefully we will take a more
active part in the Davidson community in the future,” said Pat Hudson, BSC treasurer and College Union co-curricular chairman. “We
have given Halloween parties with day care children the past two years. Also, the concert by ‘Ripple’ and the party
will be open to all students and the Davidson community for free,” he said.

The BSC has not planned many social activities for the group itself. “We’ve had one party—a birthday party,” said Ralph
Holloway, a BSC member. “That was good in that it got all of us together. Unfortunately, we don’t have many
coeds, and I didn’t get a chance to dance enough,” he said.

The group’s relatively low profile stems from a variety of reasons. “Davidson College is null and void for black people,”
Hudson said. “There is nothing to keep a black person here on the weekends, so there is no great school
spirit. Because of that, it’s hard to get a great deal of work done with the BSC,” he said. “Right
now more is being done by the BSC than I’ve seen done in my two years here,” he said.

“We try to make life a little bit easier for the black student,” said Perkins. “The BSC functions basically as
a gathering through weekly meetings,” she said. “The BSC is a necessary function. It’s neat to know the people in
the group. We are from so many different backgrounds. The main thing that makes us a group is that we’re
black,” Holloway said.

The BSC is currently involved in a group project. Members are rehearsing for the presentation of “The Happy Ending,” a
play to be produced entirely by the BSC. The group caters to its members as much as possible. “We keep
a spot box with our spots and old textbooks that we can use,” said Perkins.

The BSC is working with some administrative problems, according to Perkins. “We would like to get more black professors and
more black-oriented courses,” she said. “We also work with Larry Barr in admissions and try to get the college to
recruit black students,” she said.

The recruiting does not seem to entail blind optimism about the school. “I tell potential black students exactly what I
think about Davidson,” she said.

Members of the BSC are encouraged to join other extracurricular activities to open doors for the group, according to Perkins.
“We’re striving to get people in other group activities like S.G.A., Union Board, Drama, athletics, and IMAC,” she said. “The
BSC is an extra responsibility that the white student doesn’t have to deal with.”

Even though the BSC is somewhat short of manpower as Davidson College is short of black students, the group continues
to strive for recognition and improvement of the black student experience on campus.black students, the BSC does not want white
membership. “We are trying to get exempt from the part of the SGA constitution which declares all groups must be
open,” said Perkins. “This exemption would be for the white students’ protection. Pat Hudson sees white members as just condescending
liberals,” she said. The BSC seems to feel little responsibility to the campus. “We each contribute to the campus through
individual activities in different organizations,” said Holloway. “I don’t feel any missionary zeal to do something for the school in
the name of the BSC,” he said. The black student has the common school activities as well as the BSC,”
said Hudson. Hudson believes that the BSC’s commitment is to Black students and the Black Davidson community.

New PIRG Officers Organize To Pursue Consumer Interests
By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

The recent PIRG election of board officials will bring changes to the Davidson-N.C. PIRG office. The new officials plan to
concentrate on local issues such as brown lung disease in the textile mills of Kannapolis, Concord, Gastonia, and Belmont with
more gusto than in the past. The selection of Lamas as chairperson, Hedrick as state board representative, Frank Rambo as
secretary, Biff Kirby as treasurer, and John Alexander as publicist occurred at the local PIRG board meeting on March 12.
Everyone on the board has either been on the board or worked on project work, so they are all experienced,”
commented former chairperson Mac McKeithen.

Both State Chairperson Erwin Barron and McKeithen thought that the new board would intensify local priorities. John Hedrick said, “I
think the new people are more interested in local concerns,” Barron stated. However, he was concerned with “What’s frustrating me
is that nobody ever seems to get excited about it,” Barron said. “It’s really frustrating trying to get anything started.”
Particularly of interest in this area is brown lung disease, or byssinosis. This is the top issue of Davidson PIRG,
according to Hedrick. Brown lung disease is caused by excessive inhalation of cotton dust in the textile mills. The predominant
symptom is shortness of breath and it is statistically considered the fifth major occupational hazard in the United States. The
coordinators of the brown lung project are Lamas and Alexander. “We are pushing it as our No. 1 priority,” said
Hedrick. He pointed out that although he recognized the importance of local issues, state projects should not be ignored. “We
can’t focus solely on local issues but a combination since we’re a state organization,” asserted Hedrick. He also sees Davidson
PIRG continuing to help interested students start, pursue, finish, and follow up on those projects of local concern. McKeithen indicated
that financial support was needed. “We need to continue financial support from students,” McKeithen said. PIRG is now getting its
operational funds from an optional $3 added to the student fees collected by the college. Housing is another project of
local interest that is under consideration for the spring term. Both the legislative initiative and prescription drug projects are being
pursued on a state level with local support. A Sunday meeting is set for the state PIRG board when state
officials are elected.

Andy Davidsonian Staff
Production Manager: BILL ELLETT
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Assistant News Editor: ANNE PELFREY
Features Editor: LARRY MIMMS
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, VAN WILLIAMSON
Editor: LEON VENABLE
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCE RABIL, GORDON WIDENHOUSE
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Copy Editors: CAMILLE CATHEY, SABRA FATRES

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to THE DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.
