October 31, 1975

The Davidsonian

Davidson Club Sports Grow Recently

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

Club sports are an integral part of student life on most college campuses, especially those which have limited budgets for
the athletic department. Davidson does not have the sizeable athletic budget of larger schools. The college has also seen an
increase of interest in a wider variety of sports over the last few years. But the athletic department cannot finance
squads in every sport which possesses student interest. As a result, club teams are often formed.

In theory, club sports are student-run, student-funded organizations, making them totally independent of the school’s athletic department. On the Davidson
campus, there are club sports in football, rugby, ice hockey, lacrosse, soccer, women’s field hockey, and sailing, as well as
an outing club.

There is, however, a present controversy concerning whether or not the athletic department should finance club sports, and, if so,
to what extent. This question is especially important in such sports as club football, where the cost of equipment, referees,
and lining the field results in extremely high team dues. Unlike many other schools, Davidson’s club teams will receive aid
in the form of either direct grants or equipment.

Dr. Chip Stone, Director of Physical Education, is assisting in the organization of club sports this year. He hopes to
keep the clubs essentially independent of Davidson’s regular sports program. “We try to provide some funds. But since it is
a student-run organization, we try to stay out of the coaching and administrative aspects of the program,” Stone pointed out.
“Club sports have a place in college and I think we should do everything we can to help them up
to a point. When we start infringing upon their creativity and money-raising campaigns, we should get out.”

In the case of club football, the team receives aid in the form of used equipment. Often there is a
shortage of equipment and the gear may not be of top quality. Junior Tim Sellars, who coaches the club football
team, believes that without administrative support the team would have a difficult time supporting itself. “If we can’t get the
safe equipment we need to suit people out and get them to play, then these people are going to get
disillusioned and not want to play,” Sellars explained. “If this happens over a series of years, the team will start
missing games and other schools will not want to schedule us. It’s a vicious circle.”

It is Stone’s belief, however, that a majority of the schools let their club teams bear all the costs themselves.
When the Davidson athletic department helps financially, they are taking a middle-of-the-road approach to the problem.

“We feel that club sports are valuable and we don’t feel they should bear all the costs,” he said. “Therefore,
we do provide some grants, fields, and equipment.”

Sellars is not sure though that the athletic department could not do more to assist the club sports program. “Maybe
some people are of the opinion that club sports should be funded by the students,” Sellars explained. “Whether or not
that is really feasible is questionable. I think the values of the club programs far outweigh the costs of maybe
a small outlay from the administration.”

The budget for club sports will not be decided until each team has submitted a list of expenditures to Athletic
Director Thom Cartmill. He, along with the other members of the department, will then determine how much money will be
allocated to each club. In the past, the club football team has received as much as $500 a year. One
year they received $4500 worth of equipment. But with the growing number of club sports, those figures will probably be
cut.

Despite the financial questions, the athletic department encourages the organization of new club programs and will attempt to assist in
its organization. If a group decides to form a team, they should find a sponsor, usually one of the coaches
who has an interest in the sport.that particular sport, and present their ideas to the administration. “Certainly there are problems,”
observed Stone. “But club sports are valuable. We recognize we don’t have all the facilities we need. But still, we
encourage any group of people with an interest in a sport to form a club team.”

Booters drop two, Beat The Citadel
By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College soccer team had its record drop to 1-9-1, losing games to Furman and Belmont Abbey. The two
disappointing losses came on the heels of the Cats' only victory and their worst defeat of the season. The Cats
traveled to the Citadel and knocked them off, 2-1. Tommy Blackwood and Dave Patton did the scoring for the Cats.
On the following Wednesday, Appalachian State came in and destroyed Davidson. The Mountaineers dominated the game, winning easily by a
score of 4-0.

This past Saturday the team traveled to Furman and lost a heartbreaker, 3-2. “We played very poorly,” Wildcat player Phil
Barringer commented. “It seemed like we were not up for the game.” Blackwood put the Cats on the board first
as he knocked in a pass from Paul Parker. The Paladins tied it up, scoring from the midst of a
crowd in front of the Davidson goal. But the Cats raced back into the lead by 2-1 at the half,
as Parker headed in a corner kick. Early in the second half, Furman again tied the game on a defensive
blunder by the Cats. Fullback Chuck Fiden tried to get the ball to goalie Bob Perz to clear, but kicked
it poorly, allowing a Paladin to intercept and score. The game was decided in the last few minutes when a
scramble following a Furman indirect kick resulted in a goal for the Paladins. “We played a very sloppy game,” said
one player. “We were just too disorganized. There is no way we should have lost to Furman.”

On Tuesday the Cats entertained Belmont Abbey and dropped a 4-3 decision. Again Davidson jumped off to a quick lead,
scoring on a direct kick by Barringer from about 20 yards to the left of the goal. “I was trying
to cross the ball for a possible head,” said (See BLACKWOOD, page 11) (See BOOTERS, page 11)

Blackwood shines for soccer squad
By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

To the accompaniment of oohs and aahs from the crowd, Tommy Blackwood weaves his way upfield. He is as quick
as a cat, and his feet can maintain incredible control of a soccer ball. As the best player on the
Davidson team, he gets quite a bit of attention from the opposition. “If the Southern Conference coaches know about anyone,
they know about Tommy,” commented teammate Joe Duncan. Indeed they must since he was named to the All-Conference team even
though he played in no conference games. Talent-wise, Blackwood is definitely above average, but it is his knowledge of the
game that really sets him apart. “Tommy knows soccer so well,” commented a teammate, “that he doesn’t have to think
about what he does like the rest of us.” “Tommy didn’t become a really good player until late in his
high school career, and he’s still improving,” said soccer coach Chip Stone. “He is a very quick shooter, but up
until this year he never really had the hard shot.” “But as quickly as he can get a shot off,”
noted a player, “he doesn’t need to kick it hard. It just gives him another weapon.” Blackwood said, “My strength
is my passing game. Everyone else usually says it’s their scoring or speed, so I’ll say it’s my passing game.”
Not that Blackwood lacks either of the other skills. In his Davidson career, he has 15 goals and 18 assists.
“With the ball, Tommy is as fast as anyone,” added Stone. Blackwood has definite pro ambitions. “I know I can
play professional soccer,” he said. “It’s just a matter of being noticed and getting drafted.” Stone agrees. “There is no
doubt that he is good enough. But with our record he probably won’t get the recognition he deserves.” Blackwood was
selected as a pre-season All-American, but Stone discounted its value. “In college soccer, being an All-American does not mean that
much. Being selected to
