the davidsonian te 4 | Capital punishment

By ANNE FICKLEN

In the upcoming bicentennial year, everyone wants to go to Washington, D.C., our nation’s capital where it all started. Actually,
it really all started in Trenton or Philadelphia or New York City or even Plymouth Rock, depending on which bicentennial
minute you saw last. Washington is really a reclaimed swamp and some savvy businessman capitalized on old George by getting
him in a corner and saying, “Ya wanna buy dis nice cheap land, see. Ya drain the water and who's
going to notice a few mosquitoes? Ya get your Frenchy friend Lafont or whatever to put the capital itself on
this nice hill and the taxpayers will make your birthday a holiday for not buying some ritzy, expensive land in
Long Island or in Jersey.”

The Potomac Indians, who were displaced along with the swamp, claim they had always called the hill on which the
Capitol now stands, ‘The Hill From Whence the Hot Air Rises.’ The old swamp, now fondly known as Foggy Bottom
to residents, the hot air hill, and tourism ripoffs combine to make Washington the worst place to be in the
summer. Before air-conditioning, foreign diplomats got hardship pay for surviving Washington summers (tourists come to relax in D.C.? In the
good old summertime).

So, here are some tips to survive your trip to Washington. Your goal is to pass as a resident and
come back alive. The humidity, pollution, and heat are your problems.

1) Avoid blatant stupidity. For example, a female tourist went up to the conductor of the subway between the House
and the Senate complaining, “Okay, we've seen the House of Representatives, and we've seen the Senate, now tell me, where
is the Capitol?” Or the tourist who raved over a print of a woman in the Hirshhorn Museum Shop and
then said, “Tell me, do you have this same print in a man?” Or the man who looked at the
Lincoln Memorial and said, “Is this where the President lives?” Or, Or, Or...

2) Speak properly. Saying, “Where is the little boys’ room at?” or “Them things over there” will make a street
vendor raise the price of a popsicle 40 percent. Besides, the Communists already have enough evidence that the American education
system is falling apart without you adding to it.

3) Residents ask for a bag; tourists ask for a sack.

4) Buy your film before you come, because brother, they’ll steal you blind downtown. Would you believe $2.75 for Magicubes?
If you do get stuck and have to buy film, don’t start a long harangue about how Magicubes are $1.00
back in Sandusky. And please, make sure you know what kind of flash cubes to buy for your camera. Dithering
at the film counter is a dead giveaway. Regular flashcubes are for cameras with round holes, and Magicubes (with the
‘X’ on top) are for square holes.

5) Museums open at ten in the morning. So don’t get up at six and then spend four hours waiting
for the sights to open.

6) Waiting in a White House line is like waiting for Godot. To beat the system, you can get special
tickets from your senator or congressman for an early morning tour, without waiting. So that day you can get up
early because the tour starts at eight. And while you’re in your representative’s office, give him some grief over his
voting record by pretending that you are affiliated with the lobby for the major industry in your state. Say you
are disappointed with him. You might get your tickets faster.

7) Never attack people in the streets and ask directions. Hang on until you can catch a cab—don’t bother asking
a bus driver since by law bus drivers are not allowed to talk on duty, merely snarl.

8) Don’t worry about the fact that almost all the major roads downtown are only boards. This is the work
of the D.C. Metro, which is digging tunnels with spoons under those boards for our budding subway system. While the
boards rattle and shake when a fly alights, don’t get paranoid, only one major road with cars on it has
collapsed so far.

9) Avoid traveling in large groups where you all wear matching uniforms, nametags, or look-alike beanies.

10) At all times cultivate an attitude of faint contempt. In Washington, there are grown men who have spent their
entire life getting enough status to be able to walk past federal security guards with a curt nod of the
head. Take your cue from these men when in Washington. Walk into public monuments and buildings as if you were
thinking, “Structure-wise, the building isn’t bad, that is if you like early mediocre. Maybe I’ll mention it...To Gerald next time
I see him at Burning Tree.

The Davidsonian enhances image with change to modern typography

We hope it is obvious to any reader familiar with past printing history of The Davidsonian that there are some
substantial changes in the typographic style of this issue. Many of the changes, such as the Helvetica Bold nameplate, will
take readers some time to get accustomed to. We have chosen Helvetica Bold for its easy readability, its roundness, and
for the more modern typographic image it lends to this newspaper, one which we feel is more in keeping with
the content. We have also selected a new body type to ensure easier readability of the articles. The Helvetica Bold
replaces the Old English nameplate used on every issue since the first Davidsonian was published in 1915. Sixty years ago,
Old English was the only type style widely available for nameplates, large, bold, and distinct from the other typefaces used
in the newspaper. Today, there are thousands of different type styles more readable than Old English.

The articles on the editorial pages were composed in eight-point type, similar in style to the body copy used last
year. Compare the type to the new nine-point Century Textbook print we have used on the other pages. There is
no question in our minds that our new type is more readable, but we’ve combined in this issue only, the
new and the old to allow our readers to make the comparison themselves. Likewise, our headlines, photograph captions, and editorials
are set in a new typeface, Helios, a style we selected for its smoothness and crispness. We hope these changes
will give our readers a better feeling as they turn the pages of The Davidsonian each week.

Putting the yearbook out of print

The annual crisis concerning the publication of the Davidson College yearbook, Quips and Cranks, has again made its appearance on
campus, despite the disappearance of Editor Ensley and the non-appearance of the book itself. Delayed publication of the yearbook at
Davidson traditionally has had its purpose: the only excitement associated with the yearbook in the recent past has centered around
whether or not the book would ever be printed. It seems a shame to remove all traces of excitement from
a tradition which quietly died seven years ago, but the continued publication of the Quips and Cranks in its traditional
form can no longer be justified. Yearbooks continue to be expensive, non-functional in terms of presenting informative material at the
time it is needed, and counterproductive in terms of format. The yearbook is no longer a tradition; it is a
cliché.

We would suggest that a soft-cover magazine, published twice yearly, would provide a less expensive and more suitable format. An
issue published at the beginning of the fall term, concentrating on the informative function of identifying pictorially administration, faculty, staff,
and students, would provide the pertinent information when it is needed rather than a year-and-a-half late. A second issue published
at the end of spring quarter could concentrate on recording photographically the events of the year with more possibility for
artistic expression and interesting graphic design.

The SGA Senate refused to study the dilemma of the college yearbook last spring, claiming that a study would be
more democratic in fall than in spring. Although doing nothing in the name of democracy reminds us of the yearbook
staff’s argument that organizing the staff hinders creativity, the Senate has expressed some interest in facing the dilemma of continued
support for the yearbook. We urge the SGA Senate to investigate the value of the yearbook in its present form,
discuss alternatives, and conduct a referendum before pre-Christmas elections for an editor for the 1976-77 yearbook. We hope the Senate
will see fit to charter a new student organization to serve the college with more editorial and fiscal responsibility and
allow the present yearbook cliché to die.

As we mentioned earlier, it will take some time before these changes in typography become familiar to all of us.
Yet we feel confident that, after the initial jolt, we will find The Davidsonian easier to read, more modern in
approach, and typographically more consistent with the news of Davidson College in the 1970s than was our typography from the
1920s. Which is precisely why we've changed.

The Davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in the image.” —Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton
Editor

Larry Mimms, Gordon Widenhouse
Managing Editors

Matthew Covington, Andrew Lamas, Leon Venable
Executive Editor, Senior News Editor, Photography Editor

Robert Trawick
Art Director

Jeff Sich
Business Manager

Jim Sitterson
Sports Editor

David Trader
Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00
