the davidsonian: December 12, 1975

C. W. McCall laments, “It’s a long lonesome road in the lifetime of a trucker.”

Creamery cult spreads good news
By CATHY LANDIS
Asst. Features Editor

Davidson students, stuck between Mooresville and Charlotte, suffer with a constant need for new culinary stimulus. It’s time Davidson found
a new direction: Concord. Concord is the home of the Cabarrus Creamery Company, Inc.: the queen of ice cream. Ice
cream is not a new treat for the Davidson student, but the Creamery is. The revelation of this glutton’s paradise
is of more importance than many realize. Everyone has a place that is too good to tell anyone else about.
The Creamery’s quality is so superior that its patrons developed a cult around it. All acquainted with the Creamery were
obligated to tell only one, one person about it per year. But the members of the cult can no longer
control their excitement and have begun to spread their good news of rich, old-fashioned ice cream.

The drive to Concord, twenty minutes of rolling hills and farms, is enough to whet any loyal American’s appetite for
the red, white, blue, and ice cream. Once in Concord, you will pass dairy bars of all persuasions, but temptations
must and can be overcome; the anticipation is only heightened. The Creamery is worth waiting for. Located on Church Street
in an old building characterized by its anemic green exterior and a nondescript interior, the Creamery does not specialize in
atmosphere. They are not fancy; they do not give away colorful balloons.

- Leon Venable

The Joy of Eating

Friday, December 12, 1975
All week: Neon Sculptures by Jerry L. Noe, Stowe Galleries
9 am: Carnegie Mellon School of Industrial Management, Chambers 07
8 & 10:30 pm: Pop Film: “Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice,” Love

Saturday, December 13, 1975
8 am: Graduate Record Exams, Banquet Hall
1 pm: Life/Work Workshop for Seniors, Morrison Room
7:30 pm: Basketball: East Carolina, Greenville, N.C.

Sunday, December 14, 1975
7:30 pm: Christmas Vespers, DCPC

Monday, December 15, 1975
10-11 am: Coffee with Jonathan Kabat-Zinn, Conversation Pit
3-5 pm: Yoga session with Kabat-Zinn, Morrison Room
6 pm: Women’s Basketball: Catawba, Davidson
8-9 pm: Kabat-Zinn, lecture on Bhrama, Morrison Room
8-10 pm: Open House for Students, President’s Home

Tuesday, December 16, 1975
10-11 am: Coffee with Kabat-Zinn, Conversation Pit
12 pm: Share-It-With-Your-Brother-Meal, Banquet Hall
3-5 pm: Yoga session, Kabat-Zinn, Morrison Room
4 pm: Military History Documentary, Green Meeting Room

Film Series
‘Convoy’ places McCall music in country scene
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

C. W. McCall currently owns one of the top country songs in the United States. His song “Convoy” is receiving
radio airplay all over the country and to a variety of musical tastes. As his music becomes more familiar, his
first album “Black Bear Road,” which contains “Convoy,” may enjoy moderate success. McCall plays with his listeners, and his songs
attract interest generally because they are humorous or different, not because they are musically sound. Background information on McCall includes
a description of him on the back cover of “Black Bear Road.” McCall “is not the Rhinestone Cowboy type,” it
reads. “He won’t wear ruffled shirts or sparkly pants.”or make strangely-shaped cakes. But they do serve excellent ice cream. The
cream of their crop are milkshakes. They put a straw in each one because of convention, but any attempt to
use it is an impossible feat. Because of their thickness, a spoon is the more efficient tool with which to
attack these “Thickies.” Milkshakes can be made from any flavor, but the first prize will have to be given to
the peanut butter milkshake. For Davidson students addicted to peanut butter, this Creamery special represents the epitome of what can
be done with pâte de fruit de Georgia.

The outdoors type who would “rather run around in the mountains in a muddy jeep, thinking up songs and chasing
rainbow trout,” it says. Some of the songs that McCall has thought up are included on “Black Bear Road.” All
the songs on this album were written by McCall. Side one includes the title cut, “Black Bear Road.” This song
can be dismissed as comical. At one point McCall’s musical accompaniment gets ahead of him and he has to say,
“Don’t mind that guitar,” in the middle of his song about taking a rough shortcut in an Army jeep. Salvation
for side one is the song “The Silverton.” This song picks up the tempo and is musically a good “train
song.” The chorus on this composition is done by the “puffies,” Sarah Westphal and Carol Rogers. These women are qualified
vocal back-ups and may be heard of in lead vocals soon. A song of some merit is “Lewis and Clark.”
This song is comical but the comedy is less of a burden to the music than in some other compositions.
Fairweather Lewis and Willard Clark are two policemen after “Hippies in Chivvys” in this song.

“The other side” of “Black Bear Road” (it doesn’t have a second side) includes “Convoy.” This is the song that
will sell the album to many people, but it is only McCall’s best novelty song, not his best music. “Headed
for bear on I-One-Oh, a mile out of Shakeytown” a group of trucks form a convoy and continue on across
the country to the East coast. On the way, the convoy collects trucks of all kinds including “eleven long-haired friends
o’ Jesus in a chartreuse Microbus.” “The other side” is not as good as side one and provides nothing that
is musically significant. In one song McCall tells us that: “It’s a long lonesome road in the lifetime of a
trucker.” McCall’s album cover says perhaps prophetically that: “Somehow he gives everyone something to smile about. Or think about. Or
cry about. Something to hold on to. And anyone who can do that these days has to have a little
magic on his side.”

7:30 pm Wrestling: Catawba
7:30 pm Recruitment for Montpellier Program
8 pm Basketball: Georgia Tech
8 pm Communications Group

Wednesday, December 17, 1975
10-11 am Coffee with Kabat-Zinn
4 pm Film: “Goya”
3-5 pm Yoga session

Thursday, December 18, 1975
10 am Humanities 122 Film: “Marat Sade”
10 am Coffee and Cokes
8 pm Pop Film: “My Uncle Antoine”

Salisbury, N.C. Morrison Room
Atlanta, Ga. Balcony, 900 Room
Conversation Pit Honors Center
Morrison Room Love Banquet Hall Love
