April 10, 1975 The Davidsonian

Ku, Phi Society meetings spice early college intellectual life

By STEVE JOHNSON
Asst. Features Editor

The first organizations established by the students of the college were the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary societies back in 1837. For over a decade the members of each society labored to raise the funds for construction of halls commensurate to their influence on the campus. In 1849, the Eumenean Hall was dedicated, and the Philanthropic Hall in the following year.

During the early years of the college, all student government was centered in the Societies. Until 1881, commencement exercises were sponsored by the Societies. Later in the 1800s, the consolidation of the libraries of the two societies formed the Union library. The Societies’ officers controlled campus deportment of their memberships until 1870. In 1853, the Phi Society received a chandelier of great value, a replica of the chandelier under which Napoleon was married.

The meetings of the societies were continuous twice weekly until they were interrupted during the war between the States, and continued thus afterwards until the last couple of decades. During that time, Woodrow Wilson belonged to the Eu Society and was often noted for his irregular deportment.

The object of both Societies was to stimulate excellence and competition in the areas of oration, debating, and literary criticism. According to the Philanthropic society’s preamble in its constitution, they were “confronted with the importance of oral communication in dealing with ourselves and our fellows, thus desiring resource in our literary heritage and requiring constant appraisal of our current situation.”

Here the emphasis is placed both on the past and the present, using it in preparation for the future. Each year awards were given by each Society to its best essayist, debater, and declaimer, and a medal was given jointly by both Societies to the best orator. A publication resulting from the combined work of the two Societies was the Davidson Monthly, which was intended to initiate interest in campus events and literature.

However, interest declined early in the 1960s in both Societies and reached a low with the near extinction of the Eumenean Society in 1972. The Phi Society was having its problems also and tried to revive its membership in 1973 with a series of activities including the presentation of Sen. Sam Ervin as a campus speaker. Since then it has returned to its schedule of regular meetings and speakers.

In 1971, both of the campus literary Societies received recognition by admission of their halls to the National Register of Historic Places.

Participation: Leon Venable

Historical hallmarks

Philanthropic Hall (foreground) and Eumenean Hall (background) were admitted to the National Register of Historic Places in 1971.

‘Non-existent’ rivalry flares in 1970s

By MARK DEATON and LARRY MIMMS

Rivalry between the Eumenean and Philanthropic Societies is almost non-existent now, according to Eu Society President Sally Stow and Phi Society President Gus Succop. But they say so with smirks on their faces.

“There used to be strong rivalry in that members in each society took pride in their group. No one is proud to be in the Eu Society,” Succop maintained. “Eu Society has not shown any ability; they’re not worthy of a debate with us. We are alive, and we’ll debate Eu when they show some signs of being an organization,” he said.

Stow mentioned the changing objectives of the Eu Society as agents which quell the traditionalcompetition. “Eu has changed from a literary society to a group of people with active social concerns. I don’t think that the same kind of traditional rivalry is possible. I don’t see why a Phi Society member could not also be a member of Eu. I just wish the opposite were true.” — Pete Goodman

“There used to be strong rivalry in that members in each society took pride in their group. No one is proud to be in the Eu Society. I would especially like to see women able to become members of the Phi Society, although I don’t know why they’d want to be,” said Stow.

Succop indicated that the Philanthropic Society Constitution would have to be amended to accommodate women. “Phi Society doesn’t feel the need to go coed at this time. We represent one of the last traditions at Davidson. This makes us more unique, and it serves as one of our major drawing cards,” said Succop.

The goals of the Phi Society are consistent with those for which the organization was founded. “We are a literary society. We meet and discuss many topics. We meet in a distinguished manner and have intellectual discussions,” Succop claimed. “We turn off a lot of people by meeting in coats and ties. There’s some formality there, but being a member of the Phi Society is something one should have pride in,” he said.

According to Succop, associating with society members dressed in coat and tie makes him feel more intelligent and sophisticated than he normally feels. The formality observed by Phi members extends to the giving of diplomas printed in Old English. Each member of the Philanthropic Society is required as a senior to give a 15 to 20 minute paper “on anything of research value.” Succop mentioned two papers given recently, “The History of the Davidson Basketball Team” and “The Negro in the South: He’s Losing His Flavor.”

The Philanthropic Society attempts to bring speakers to each of its meetings. United States Information Agency Executive Simon Bourgin, former Senator Frank Harris, and Dave Sentelle have spoken recently.

Stow stressed the difference in the Eu Society. “We’re not just the same, staid, established society. We use the same name, the same building, but our purpose has changed, and we’ve broadened our interests,” she said. “We no longer are just harboring academic intellectualism, but community concerns,” she added.

“I would especially like to see women able to become members of the Phi Society, although I don’t know why they’d want to be.” — Sally Stow, Eumenean Society president

— Gus Succop, Philanthropic Society president

Stow referred to the Eumenean Society “as a clearinghouse”—people bring things they want to promote at Davidson to meetings for the society’s support. The Eu Society, for example, sponsored the recent Good Friday fast and the collection for CROP and world hunger. “We don’t require coats and ties, our meetings and our membership is open, and we do allow women members,” Stow said. “We have a new constitution, so we no longer have fines for things such as spitting on the side of the building. That was in our old constitution.”

Both societies meet once every other week on average. The Philanthropic Society boasts of a membership of approximately 25 whereas the Eumeneans claim approximately 10 active members at present.