October 10, 1975

Flickerball results defy prophecies

By KIRK COMBE and TOMMY BLACKWOOD

As the mellow Carolinas become more deeply embedded into the passions of autumn, it is increasingly evident that there is
really no pattern to flickerball, save the one which seems to have haunted the hollows and fields of play as
far back as these two reporters can scrape back into their memories.

Gail Crumley gets a lesson from Kirk Cameron in the fine points of field hockey.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR EVERY FRIDAY 2 - 6 P.M.
25¢ DRAFT

DANNON YOGURT — ALL FLAVORS 3¢

VEGETARIAN SPECIAL
MUSHROOM SANDWICH - 90¢

That is, the better teams win, the weaker teams get hurt and all others are nebulous masses floating in between.

Two such gaseous forms met in sub-mediocre combat in the guise of Emanon and ATO.

With absolutely no idea of what they were doing, these two armies fought it out on a darkling plane only
to find Emanon victorious 33-7 by no virtue of their own. ATO is pitiful, but proud.

It was a hanger as on another part of the fields of honor the Gnads snubbed PDT #2 (all those
who weren’t good enough for PDT #1) by a 31-12 margin. The Gnads displayed (or exposed) a superior ball handling
ability, as well as a jock-strap-tight defense. They repeatedly sacked the opposing quarterback.

The Gnads show promise of great things to come. They hang together and work well as a team. Their common
and driving goal is to score. And this seems to be their strongest advantage, they are loose.

In an euthanasia match played in the amphitheater of field #1 (and rained on from above by the soccer balls
of the N. C. State match), KA #1 did indescribable things to a team of transfer students (stop a second
and try to imagine that) called Nazgut. The KA traditionally looked good. Their flowing, but by no means out-of-place, hair
and tinsel jerseys left the flicker-mindless Nazgut stunned, 47-0.

‘Parking fine’ Ed

Ed Willingham led the Southerners (what an awful objective) and personally distributed increased parking fines to the losers. The KA’s
were cheered on by two busloads of Salem and Queens things (girls?). Aren’t our coeds good enough? (Sorry, we lost
our heads for a moment.)

The following afternoon Nazgut continued their whatever ways by losing to Cannon II. This they accomplished despite the fact that
there was no reported score of the game nor any refs present. These transfers are amazing indeed. Cannon II, on
a stroke of originality, calls themselves the Cannon Balls. Cute but inappropriate. Art Leahy was unable to play because he
was in study hall.

In another poorly documented game it seems that 4th Richardson defeated Dingo 32-26.

There is, however, a rather large question mark on the scorecard, a couple of names crossed off the space provided
for officials and a torn but taped together card attached to the back of the first card declaring Dingo the
winner 12-7.

More mystery reigns in IMAC Central. Commissioner Bowie claims this matter will be thoroughly investigated and cleared up within the
week. But nobody really cares.

The last contest of the last day of September saw PDT “C” (all those who weren’t good enough for PDT
“2”) beating Chocolate Speedway by a deceptively boring score of 39-27. Even the role quoting of Brian ‘Bowie’ Andrews could
not avert the inevitable. The atmosphere is sullen in IMAC Central.

Joe Banana

The first day of October saw Joe Banana and his Bunch float to an impressive victory over Etc. in a
previously rained-out match. With a high-flying defensive backfield, the men of Etc. seemed unable to pass to anyone but that
mysterious blond defender (who strongly resembles Bjorn Borg) for Joe Banana.

Interception after interception produced score after score as Etc. romped, 51-12. The game ball was awarded to George Loy because
everyone felt sorry for him.

Eric “Maddog” Hendrix also made a fool of himself. The sophomore team called the Whiz Kids were also victorious that
day, defeating the freshman team of 3rd Richardson, 38-7. That shows what a difference a year makes; next season 3rd
Richardson will have developed the motor coordination to write legibly on their roster sheet.

Another experienced team, aptly named Ragmen, undercut more freshman dreams this time whipping those of 1st Richardson by an embarrassing
score of 47-3. All we want to know is how 1st Richardson got three points. We thought all Davidson football
teams opted to go for it on fourth and eighth.

The dying gasps of the Gozinya dynasty of quality athletes was heard as a team called Off Again pounded the
emaciated remnants of what once was by 25-7. The cry of “Gozinya” seems grossly inadequate from this year’s pale imitation.

(See IMAC, page 11)

Friday, Oct. 10

8 & 10:30 P.M.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

WALKABOUT

$1.00

COLUMBIA ARTISTS THEATRICALS presents

By arrangement with the Governors of the ROYAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON, ENGLAND

CROWN

Davidson College Artist Series

Tuesday October 14, 1975

8:15 P.M.

Ticket Information: Call 892-8021 ext. 343

Are You Listening?

Union sponsors name contest

The Coffeehouse Committee of the College Union is sponsoring a contest to come up with a name for the new
listening room.

We would prefer a name that would be distinctive, printable, and bring to mind the concept of the listening room;
a room to present the performing arts in an ideal blend of sound, light, an attentive audience. Please submit all
entries, unlimited, to the information desk of the College Union by Monday, October 10, 1975.

A prize is to be awarded for the winning entry: one pair of Homecoming Concert tickets to see the Nitty
Gritty Dirt Band and John Hartford.
