February 6, 1975 The Davidsonian Eleven

Club Sports Reflect Interest In Informal Competitiveness
By FRANK STIEFEL
Asst. Sports Editor

With the increase in enrollment over the last few years, Davidson's Athletic department has been forced to diversify and expand.
Much of this development has been through student interest in the form of club sports.

(Photo by Pete Goodman)
Two For Davidson
Larry Horowitz hits a jumper against Richmond to beef up an early Cat lead. Jay Powell backs him up among
a crowd of visiting Spiders.

Jimmy the Freek Gozinyas, Top Lists, Richmond. Indiana Drops ECU Odds

The “Freek” has returned from his “trip” to Boston and has been ordered to write a column this week. I’m
sorry I let you down! I know you'd probably rather see Hardees ads in this space. But when you’re hot,
you keep coming with those spreads. I slipped into a state of unconsciousness by hitting the IFT-Six Pack spread. Since
I don’t know when the IMAC All-Star-JV encounter takes place, I’ll go out on a limb early. Contrary to what
Coach Brickles says, I make it All-Stars by 11.

This week the ITT looks like:
(1) Gozinyas
(2) Indians
(3) IFT
(4) SAE #1
(5) Kerwood Derbies
(6) Delt #1
(7) Beetle Leg
(8) Delt #2
(9) Six Pack
(10) R. H.

I know a lot of K.H. Peckweeds are getting excited, thinking this tenth choice is their team. But without a
doubt, that is an R, not a K. This final selection was through a request. (Incidentally, he plays for a
team in Division III—This mystery star will be revealed in next week’s issue.)

Originally, I had intended to pick some IMAC play-off games. But since the first round games frequently pit 6-0 teams
against 0-6 teams, the spreads sometimes run into triple figures, so I think I’ll pass this week. More important later
round games will be covered and predicted next week.

In less important material, the national basketball scene looks like the following according to our eight DIP panelists:
(1) Indiana (8) .......... 80
(2) UCLA ............... 70
(3) Maryland ........... 61
(4) Kentucky ........... 53
(5) N.C. State .......... 47
(6) Louisville ............ 43
(7) Alabama ............ 28
(8) Oregon .............. 18
(9) Arizona St. .......... 11
(10) Notre Dame ....... 9

Honorable Mention: UNC-6, Lasalle, USC-3, Oregon St.-2, New Mexico St.-1, and UNCC-1. (what a joke)

Pollsters: Paul Banta, Alan Edmonds, Bob Enright, John Moon, Mike Russ, Dick Stewart, Cory Young, and Mark Yow.

If you have questions concerning the 10th choice or any one of the insane “honorable” mention selections, see the above.
As you probably have or haven’t noticed, the top six are identical to last week. Really, only the top 1
is important, as one pollster originally put down Indiana followed by nine blanks. This is not as ridiculous as it
seems. Nobody else seems to want it!

It looks like the “Freek’s” foretelling of a very dismal season for Davidson finally hit a peak in the past
East Carolina and Duke games. The ‘Cats finally put their offense together against West Virginia with a 92 point outburst!
However, there is a slight problem. They scored 97! Due to the Richmond game I have sliced my original spreads
to East Carolina over Davidson by 8 and the Cats over VMI by 1.

One of these new clubs is hockey. The team has been able to rent the Concord rink on Thursday nights
for a reasonable fee. According to club organizer, Bob Milks, the team has been getting together since the end of
October, with 12 to 15 players coming out. The range of abilities among the players is large, with some just
learning to skate, and others who have played a great deal. If interest can keep up, Milks hopes to continue
the program into April. So far, things have not gone well in trying to get together some sort of a
schedule. “We had hopes of getting some type of a budget for this year,” said Milks, “but we were told...that
there was no extra money right now. “As long as we don’t have a budget, there is no way to
get enough equipment so that we could play some games against other clubs,” he said. The team, though still in
the developing stage, has a great deal of potential and Milks feels that it can definitely succeed at Davidson.

Another club sport which has been organized this year is lacrosse. The team had planned to start some formal practicing
this week, but the weather has hampered this. Team member Bob Margolis feels there is a great deal of enthusiasm
as to how much the program can be developed. “Mr. Cartmill has been very receptive to the lacrosse program so
far,” said Margolis. “So far we have gotten enough equipment to suit up a team of twenty-five,” he said. As
of right now, there have been about 15 students who have attended the organizational meetings and informal practices. The team
will also get some formal coaching from football’s Coach Miller. “We realize Coach Miller will not be able to devote
his full time to the lacrosse program due to football’s spring practice,” said Margolis, “but his instruction should help greatly.”

As of now, the team has no scheduled games, but the team hopes to get some contests with schools like
Clemson that have similar club programs. Several students feel that after a few years, a good enough team will have
been developed that Davidson could field an NCAA lacrosse team. Although there is no specific playing area for the team,
Margolis said that goals had already been built, and that the team would probably use the lower soccer field. Players
range from beginners to a few who have a great deal of experience, and anyone who is interested is welcome
and should see either Margolis or Coach Miller in the football office.

The addition of these two club sports, along with the established club football and soccer teams, has greatly increased the
possibilities for students to get involved with a sport on a relatively regular basis. The indications seem to be that
the athletic department is quite receptive to any type of program for which students show an interest.

Procter & Gamble Brand Management
It’s One of the Finest Career Opportunities Available Anywhere

Procter & Gamble manufactures more than 50 consumer products, including Crest toothpaste, Duncan Hines cake mixes, Tide detergent, Pampers disposable
diapers, Scope mouthwash, and many others whose names you would recognize just as easily. For each product, there is a
small group, usually just 3 people, who plan, create, and supervise the total consumer marketing effort — including TV advertising
— for that brand. It’s called Brand Management, and it is one of the most challenging and personally rewarding jobs
in our company.

Right now we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors to join us at the beginning level in brand
management. “Innovative,” “proven record of leadership and being able to get things done,” “superior academic achievement,” and “good oral and
written communications skills” are some of the words we use to describe the people we want. We want a “take
charge” person who can assume immediate responsibility, learn quickly, contribute good ideas, and cope with (and even enjoy) constantly changing
situations. To such a person we offer a very bright future. We promote only from within, and only on merit,
and you'll move ahead in marketing management as fast as you show by your work that you're ready for more
responsibility.

If this interests you, and you think you qualify, read the folder on P&G Brand Management that’s in your Placement
Office. Then, if you’re still interested, fill out the Personal Data Sheet that’s also in your Placement Office and send
it to:

Ms. Sandy Moersdorf
The Procter & Gamble Co.
P. O. Box 599— Dept. M
Cincinnati, Ohio 45201

Include both your school and home address and phone numbers. If the Placement Office is out of Data Sheets, just
send us a letter and your resume. We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.
