September 19, 1975

By MICHAEL D. HALL
Staff Writer

[Ed. note: This week begins a five-part Davidsonian series on interesting and out-of-the-way homes of Davidson students. The aim of
the series is to make such places as Novelty, Ohio come alive for readers so that if, in the future,
they are asked if they have ever been to one of these feature towns, the reader can say yes and
fake it from there.

What information there is in these stories may tend toward trivia. The point is that these places have something to
say to people who are not acquainted with them, and people who live there are going to say it.]

Novelty, Ohio sits 30 miles east of Cleveland on route 306 in the northeastern area of the intensely proud Geauga
County and, at the same time, nowhere in particular.

The existence of Novelty is upheld only by those who live there and only while they are in town. When
out of town, “Novelties” will probably tell you that they might admit that they actually live in the towns of
Newbury or Russell.

Novelty, Ohio is actually an unconfirmed geographical point that encompasses the northern half of the Russell township.

Ohio is laid off in the old New England township fashion, meaning that counties are divided into sections or townships
six miles square. Ohio has 16 townships today, after many of the original townships have been conglomerated into places like
Cleveland. With 16 townships, Ohio has only 11 post offices. Persons living in northern Russell or Newbury receive their mail
at the Novelty post office.

Russell and Newbury don’t have post offices. They pick up the mail at Novelty which turns out to be only
a mailing address. So Novelty, Ohio doesn’t exist. An example of oversight, shortsight, or poorsight in the land of Johnny
Appleseed!—Not quite.

The people of Geauga County, historically proud Buckeyes before they even knew that that’s what they were, don’t quite take
the non-existence of Novelty as humorously. Again, these are intensely proud people.

Storytellers in Novelty will tell about some persons from bordering Cuyahoga County who were forced to wade through troughs of
sheep dip before entering Geauga and then repeat loudly three times “You better believe it!” Once in Geauga, they were
welcomed to what local boosters call “The American part of the U.S.”

Novelty’s existence is strongly supported by the Geaugans. They point to the post office and its big plate glass window
which proclaims the words “United States Post Office, Novelty, Ohio, 44072” by means of a poster board sign taped to
the glass.

Bill Klouda of the Klouda Sheet Metal Works is sure Novelty exists. He has painted “Novelty, O.” on the sides
of his sheet metal trucks.

Apparently, Geaugans just want someone to admit that Novelty exists. Like one child fighting another, all the Geaugans want is
their opponents to cry “Uncle.”

A major step toward placehood for Novelty occurred a few years ago when parts of a mastodon jaw were found
in a peat bog in northern Russell. The novelty of the thing, if you will, put Novelty on the map.
(At least the maps of museum curators.) A state road map still makes no mention of the place.

Novelty, Ohio was named, rumor has it, because of the enormous Telling Belle Vernon dairy farm which existed at the
turn of the century. The huge cattle barns and tile silos were considered so odd in 1900, that literally thousands,
most from Cleveland, traveled to see the novelty. Novelty got its name from the tourist attraction. Still, no one knows
exactly who the Telling Belle was.

Novelty has no real industry except Bill Klouda’s metal works, but it is clean and populated by almost twenty-five thousand
people. It doesn’t quite live up to its motto: “A countryside with urban pride,” but it does exist.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Friday, Sept 19
8 & 10:30 PM
