the davidsonian

October 17, 1975

4

Spooky tales lurk inside infirmary

By GIL CUTHBERTSON
Staff Writer

One thing every student dreads is a trip to Preyer Infirmary. Somehow a shadow looms over the place. Stout hearts
quake and fleet knees tremble at the thought of a visit.

This is not due to students’ inborn dislike for shots (or anything having to do with Biology or Chemistry). It
is not due to the traumatic memories of measles and chicken pox (poxes?). The fact is the place just has
an awful reputation. Why?

“Brick walls do not an infirmary make”

To start with, the building itself, known in medical terminology as the Preyer Infirmary, is old. Rumor has it that
old is too loose a term! The medical facilities inside are, for the most part, inadequate and out of date.
If this were not enough, the walls of the waiting room are painted a sickly yellow.

These conditions are known to the administration. In 1974, a committee visited the campus and compiled the ‘Davidson College Self
Study Report.’ One of the recommendations it makes, to be taken seriously, is: “Initiate a program to refurbish the infirmary,
replace all beds, and provide privacy for patients, particularly women, on the second floor.”

Will Terry, Dean of Students, commented on this, “The place has problems, no doubt. We need a dumbwaiter for the
upper floor. We need better beds and equipment. What we really need is a transportation system for injured students.”

Terry was quick to add though, “The infirmary is not General Hospital. Students should realize this. The fact is the
student pays less than $50 in infirmary fees, which is pretty darn low.”

Case #1

Last year, a freshman girl, only five days into the enriching Davidson lifestyle, got quite sick while watching a French
film. After nearly two days in the infirmary, being watched for gastritis (an intestinal infection), she was hustled off to
Charlotte... alone!

No one, not roommate, not hall counselor, not even the financial aid office was told. She said, “I was sent
off in that ambulance, barely awake, and alone except for the two illiterate drivers. I rode to Charlotte clutching a
little slip of paper with the infirmary phone number in my fist. I was all alone for eight hours. Let
me tell you, I was scared.”

She was operated on that very night for appendicitis (close to gastritis) and her family was at last reached. This
case may seem shocking and even cruel and this doesn't happen but once in a blue moon. Yet it did
happen and there was really no excuse.

-Laura Moses

Case #2

While playing basketball last year, a boy was injured and entered a state of shock. No doctor was ever contacted
to inquire on the boy’s condition; the doctor couldn’t be disturbed with such matters. Too much trouble, and an intrusion
on free time. I’m sure you can understand that.

Case #3

A freshman girl looked for several days for a doctor. This being during winter term it is not surprising she
couldn't find one. It seems every time she went to the infirmary, during announced sick call hours, there was no
doctor there. Well, she finally found one and today is the picture of health. The point is, however, that the
doctors weren’t there when they were supposed to be.

“Complaint Box”

This problem of doctor absenteeism has been a big point of complaint in the past among students. (Do doctors follow
the 25 percent cut rule?) Also, the difficulties with emergency calls have been rather sticky. Several nasty letters of complaint
have been found in the infirmary P.O. box. Every now and then one will catch a comment like, “The attitude
over there is lousy,” or “No feelings of concern,” or maybe “That guy was sarcastic.”

Terry said, “This absenteeism thing has been a problem but I think it will get better. You see, the ideal
set-up would be to have a doctor just for the college. A college physician would be here all the time.
But we don't so we make do. Doctors have contracts, too, but that’s a different story. You can’t pin them
down. Contracts are always nebulous. If we could start, as we would like to, a 5-year improvement program, things would
be better.”

A new complaint, arising within the last few years, is the question of adequate care for women students. For instance,
there is virtually no information available on birth control matters. This fact was mentioned in the self-study report. As far
as anyone knows, there is no gynecologist on call. This means that often the women can't use their own infirmary.
They have to go elsewhere.

“The sun also rises”

The sun hasn't set yet. There is one bright spot, one ray of hope, one bowl, no cup, of cherries
left... the nurses. No one can say they aren't just as nice as they can be. There is an air
of sincerity and concern for the student about them. Mrs. Sherfill will tell you all about the big flu epidemic
in '57 if you ask her, “We had to send a lot of people home. They were sick in the
rooms, in the halls, everywhere.” She will also bring you more salt for your pork chop if you ask.

The moral? If you get sick, go to the infirmary, (it’s not too bad to lay in bed for a
few days) but if you are injured, anytime besides 1-3 P.M., don’t bother.
