the davidsonian

November 14, 1975

Returning grapplers spark outlook for 75-76 season

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

For the past month, the members of the 1975-76 Davidson Wrestling Team have been in the wrestling room preparing for
the upcoming season. Assistant Coach Frank Rader has been directing the team through rigorous preseason drills. Coach Rader has the
nucleus of last year’s team returning, and several freshmen are expected to fill in openings caused by graduation and transfers.

Senior Ralph Holloway will be back this year and will be starting his fourth season in the 167 lb. weight
class. The middle of the lineup will feature third-year veterans Mark Scandling and Bob Price.

The Cats will be well represented in the lower weights, as Brian Jacobs, Pete Hotchkiss, and Glenn Ballard have all
returned. Ex-diver Ted Mumby is expected to fill in at 118 for ex-Davidson student Mike Dosal, who has transferred to
Florida. Freshman Pat Dulany is expected to muscle his way into the starting position in the 142 lb. class.

Coach Rader is anxiously awaiting the end of the gridiron season, so he can fill the upper weight divisions. Freshmen
Scott Phillips, Terrell Rhye, and sophomore Jack Summe are expected to bolster the upper weight classes.

Rader also expects sophomore Roger Brown, junior Kevin “Cleets” Clancy, and frosh Joe Saunders and Pete Johnson to see some
action this year.

Rader has an optimistic outlook for the season. He feels that if he can get the wrestlers out of the
library and onto the mat, this year’s team has the potential to be one of the best wrestling teams of
the past five seasons.

This optimism and the wrestlers will be tested on December 5th when the Cats compete in the Second Annual Catawba
Invitational Tournament.

Girls get in shape for third cage season

By AMANDA HALL
Staff Writer

The Davidson girls’ basketball team began practice Monday in preparation for the opening of their third season of play.

Their first game, slated for December 6, will be played at Clemson.

The girls practically formed the team themselves as freshmen and have been together since then.

“The team maturing together combined with the new blood of the freshmen this year should give us a good season,”
said Ken Schmader, assistant coach.

The returning players, forming the nucleus of the team, include Beth Tanner and Nora McNeil on defense, with Rene Soos
and Nancy Mathey as strong shooters.

Promising fast inside play, starting as center will be Donna Sherril, supported by Catherine Morton and Bonnie Caulkins, both strong
under the board.

“The girls really want to play and are enthusiastic and hustle a lot during practice,” said head coach Mrs. Rosa
Lee Janaro.

The coaches feel that, overall, the team is strong, and should at least equal last year’s seasonal record of 10-7.

“People better come out and watch us,” said Schmader, “because we’re going to have a darn good season.”

Watch that knee: Freshman Tom Jorgenson cuts for the basket.

... Cagers win exhibition

(Continued from page 8)

year’s apathy. “It’s refreshing.”

Davidson’s eagerness and aggressiveness was quite obvious in the Wildcat’s 98-81 exhibition victory over Athletes-In-Action last Saturday. The Wildcats, down
by eight points at half-time, outraced their older rivals by scoring 62 points in an explosive second half offensive show.

John Gerdy led the Wildcats with 30 points hitting on 15 of 22 shots, and Eppa Rixey grabbed 15 rebounds,
scored 14 points and blocked 5 shots to dominate the touring group of former college players.

Davidson shot 57.9 percent for the game and only had six turnovers in the second half after a sloppy first
half in which the Wildcats made 16 turnovers and collected 18 fouls.

Jorgensen tallied 12 assists, and blocked a shot.

Pat Hickert was 6 of 9 from the floor, and had 8 rebounds. Tom Dore was 4-7, with 5 rebounds
and 2 blocked shots, and Marvin Lively, who started and fouled out early in the second half, had 3 steals
and blocked a shot.

Although Brickels was not displeased with the offense in the second half, he did not consider the exhibition to have
been well-played.

“We’ve had five scrimmages during practice and this was our worst,” Brickels commented. “Our transition from offense to defense was
weak and defense was about half a step off most of the time.

“Offensively we passed the ball more in the first half, which gives us a better shot selection, and better offensive
rebounding.”

Buy a bunch of love from

THE FLOWER HIVE

Smith Circle, Cornelius

892-8855
