Che Bauidsonian

“The mission of the modern newspaper is to afflict the comforted and comfort the afflicted.”
--Peter Finley Dunn

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andy Lamas, Executive Editor
Mark Wilensky, Managing Editor

FOUR
January 9, 1975

Pinning Art To The Wall

Davidson College has at its disposal exhibition space in Chambers Banquet Hall for the display of important works of visual
art. To allow the banquet hall to remain unused while locking up the Davidson permanent art collection in drawers of
filing cabinets is nothing more than poor management of our present resources and a hindrance to bringing art into the
life of the Davidson community.

A gallery where sufficient security and space allow major traveling exhibits as well as the Davidson permanent collection to be
displayed is not only desirable, but necessary if Davidson is to continue even its present fine arts programs. The limitations
of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center not only prohibit the exhibition of traveling shows of major works but threaten the
future of the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition--the largest graphics contest in the nation.

The practicality of the project is undeniable. At a time when Davidson is faced with major expenses for renovation of
its chemistry and studio art facilities, the minimal costs involved in remodeling Chambers Banquet Hall are particularly attractive. Since the
banquet hall provides an adequate amount of storage space, the only needed modifications include floor and wall carpeting, adequate lighting
and security, and additional wall paneling. Further, the availability of the new Morrison Room and Club facility in the new
union should provide ample space for all activities now scheduled infrequently in the banquet hall.

At least several alumni of Davidson have expressed interest in making gifts to the Davidson permanent collection if they can
be assured that Davidson will provide proper display conditions. It is folly to alienate our alumni by refusing gifts which
could substantially benefit the college community. Through the work of Herb Jackson and the reputation of the Davidson National, Davidson
has received immense public relations material. We indeed feel that if Davidson is to continue to be promoted so ably,
a commitment to the arts is necessary now.

We urge the administration to begin plans immediately for the remodeling of Chambers Banquet Hall. For Davidson College to allow
its art to remain locked in drawers when ideal space is available for its exhibition depicts only too well the
lack of imagination of a community without art.

EXTERNalizing

The announcement from the Office for Experiential Programs this week indicated that Davidson students will have the opportunity to work
as interns during Spring break in various employment situations through the EXTERN program. The notification came as welcome news to
a campus which has often heard grumblings about the lack of career training opportunities at Davidson.

We feel that this program offers students excellent opportunities to gain acquaintance with particular occupational activities before committing themselves to
lengthy internships. It appears particularly advantageous to students making plans for internships during summers or during a term or more
of the academic year, while also giving exploratory options to those whose plans do not allow for such extensive internships.

We hope that as many students as possible will begin to take advantage of educational experiences away from the Davidson
campus. We are particularly appreciative of the work Ken Wood and Suzie Summers have done this year in experiential programs
and placement, and we anticipate a much broader curriculum in the liberal arts for a large number of students through
their efforts.

Eric Walker

‘Reader’s Digest’ Stimulates Grandpa’s Intellectual Life

A man once told me a parable about his father and “Reader’s Digest.” His father had read the magazine all
his life, but as his eyesight dimmed he could no longer comfortably read the print. Fortunately for the family, they
discovered that, in addition to publishing in ninety-seven aborigine tongues, the magazine issued a special large-print edition.For dim eyes. So
the family settled back into a contented routine. Grandfather chuckled again with doses of laughter, the best medicine. Quotable quotes
flew across the dinner table. Speech once again became more picturesque. But one day Grandfather announced that he didn’t want
“Reader’s Digest” anymore. Despite earnest entreaties, he persisted in his resigned whim. He became listless, deprived of inspiration from reprints
of Dwight Eisenhower’s Inaugural Address. Grandfather abandoned interest in all around him. The family desperately sought remedies. A letter was
dispatched to the editor pleading for an article on Joe’s Arthritic Knuckle. No, Grandfather said, it wasn’t the article on
Vitamin E that had depressed him, and remained silent. A month later Grandfather was dead. The story was related in
a less adorned form, and the moral was that we (a class) should cultivate some catalyst to heighten our interest
in life. It might have worked, but his unfortunate choice of reading material persuaded me that Grandfather was simply bored
to death with a shooting gallery duck display of Most Unforgettable Characters delivering the neighborhood milk for forty-two years while
battling intense lactic acid allergies. “Reader’s Digest” is open for a barrage of cheap shots. But I won’t apologize; it’s
fun. You see, I’m the only one at home who'll be seen looking at any of the three gift subscriptions.
Home now and then, I like to rescue them like a wet whimpering puppy. I’d keep it, but it’s such
a stupid dog. Two unmaskings marked the rough beginning and end of my adolescence. (Three cars driving by the Fox
swerve and screech). The first was the hasty admittal that professional wrestling was staged. The second was that “Reader’s Digest”
might not encompass the journalism of the world after all. A friend, learning of this sputtering smear, told me how
upset he was when “Reader’s Digest” switched the table of contents from the back cover to the front. Can you
imagine the terror if hymns started reading backwards?

A year later his mother broke into print with a prize-winning entry in Drama in Real Life, “How I Handled
My Child’s Trauma.” But how can you honorably slight the impressive box score touted by “Reader’s Digest” is that it
must reflect the tastes of too many people too close all around. It obviously tailors its stuff to sell. Large
print for dim eyes, excellent. Dim subjects for dim minds, look out. But as the same friend said, “If you’re
gonna lean on ‘Reader’s Digest,’ you gotta come down hard.” So hard it is. After all, couldn’t “Reader’s Digest” do
wonders with Davidson? Graduations would come complete with fading young leukemia victims striding across the stage for applauded diplomas; library
shelves reduced to seven rows of rainbow-hued volumes. And newspaper articles would be mercifully cut to bearable lengths by speed-reading
editors gobbling laxatives, and the extra space in the paper would be filled with memorable misprints from the past. Pardon
me, dear ‘Digest,’ but I think your slip is showing.

“Seesaw,” a Broadway musical, will be presented at Stewart Theatre, North Carolina State University on January 12 for two performances
at 3 and 8 p.m. Starring John Raitt and Liz Torres, “Seesaw” is based on Gibson’s famous play, “Two for
the Seesaw.” The Oratorio Singers of Charlotte will present their first subscription concert of the season on Saturday, Jan. 18,
at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium. This 155-member chorus is under the direction of Davidson College Music Department Chairman Donald
Plott.

“I don’t know anything about art galleries. I just know what I don’t like.”
