the davidsonian
December 19, 1975

Cats embarrassed in Atlanta
By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

Sliding quickly into mediocrity, the Davidson Wildcats were defeated Tuesday night by the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech, 85-60. The Wildcats appeared to be uninspired from the very start as they allowed the slow, but steady, Yellow Jackets to jump to an early 10-4 lead in the first five minutes of play. The two teams just traded baskets for the next seven minutes, at which point the young Wildcats decided to take a breather from scoring, and from John Gerdy’s lay-up at 8:27 to Jay Powell’s 15-footer at 2:27 they failed to net a single point. Georgia Tech coasted in with a 38-24 lead at halftime.

The second half brought no relief for the Wildcats. Georgia Tech, which shot 51.9 percent in the first half, did even better in the final twenty minutes, hitting 18 of 29 attempts. At the same time, the Wildcats were successful on only 14 of 32 shots, and although they managed to slice the Yellow Jackets’ lead to ten points at the 12:59 mark, Davidson just could not keep up with their opponents.

The Tech team was led by senior guard Mike Bottorff, who connected on 12 of 14 shots for a game high 24 points. Harry Allen, Jim Wood, and Ray Schnitzer all tallied 12 points, and Bob Davis added 10 for the Yellow Jackets. Wood was the game’s top rebounder with 13. Tech shot 57.1 percent for the game, and out-rebounded the Wildcats, 32-26.

Davidson had only two players, Eppa Rixey and John Gerdy, score in double figures, and they both netted 13 points. Pat Hickert was the high rebounder for Davidson with 8, followed by Rixey with 6. The Wildcats, now 2-4 for the year, travel to Columbus, Ohio, Saturday to face the Ohio State Buckeyes. Tip-off for the game will be at 8:05 EST.

Swimmers triumph
Remain unbeaten
By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s swimming team remained unbeaten with a close 50-45 victory over UNC-Asheville last Thursday. After losing the initial event, Davidson trailed UNC-A throughout the meet and was behind 43-45 going into the final event. At that point Jim Wood, Tim Bode, John Frederick, and Jonathan Washburn combined for an 18-second victory in the 400-yard relay giving the meet to Davidson.

Despite the loss, UNC-A picked up seven first-place finishes in the eleven events; Davidson, though, kept pace by consistently placing in each event. “It was a funny meet because we won on the strength of second and third place finishes,” commented Coach Pat Drake.

Once again Washburn led the team with two individual victories; he also swam the anchor leg of the final relay. In the 200-yard individual medley, Washburn set a new school record going the distance in 2:11.7. John Frederick picked up theOnly other individual Davidson victory as he captured the 100-yard freestyle event while Bode and Wood contributed two second-place finishes apiece. Strategy played an important part in the competition as UNC-A agreed to compete against Davidson strictly on the swimming level and not accept the 16 points that Davidson must forfeit for not having any team members in the diving competition. Those 16 points would have negated Davidson’s final winning margin of five points and given the victory to UNC-A. In addition, UNC-A committed their best swimmers early in the competition while Coach Pat Drake saved her strongest swimmers for the final relay (which proved to be the winning margin). “I knew it would be close and I felt it depended on where she (the UNC-A coach) entered her swimmers,” Drake explained. “By throwing all their good swimmers in the first relay they didn’t have any strong swimmers left for the last event.”

Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year
ARA Services
—Ron Scott

Jimmy the Freak
Freak rates bowl games

Yes, the famous or infamous as this year’s patrons know, Jimmy the Freak has been red out of retirement. Because of my immense success in predicting last year’s bowl games, this year’s will be dealt with equal prognosticating ability. My credentials should be well known school-wide in making spreads on college and pro football games a la Jimmy the Greek. There is at least one important difference, however, between these two “celebrities.” Where the Greek totally abstains from gambling, this seer tries to exploit his expertise to steal “nickels and dimes” away from all students bar none.

Tangerine Bowl, December 20, Miami (Ohio) and South Carolina. This is Miami’s permanent bowl game. They own an invitation to it like that other Ohio team does to the Rose Bowl. Jim Carlen has done a superb job with the Gamecocks and he could get them really psyched for Grantz’ last game. I’ll have to rate this one even.

Liberty Bowl, December 22, Texas A&M and Southern Cal. This minor(?) game could be the second-best bowl game next to the Orange. It’s a classic match-up of Ricky Bell against A&M’s defense, which suddenly became porous against Arkansas. Even though it’s McKay’s last USC game, A&M has to prove they deserve top-five mention. A&M by 6.

Fiesta Bowl, December 26, Arizona State and Nebraska. In mid-season, it looked as though the Cornhuskers might find the #1 rating by season’s end. After a defeat by a great Oklahoma team, they were shoved into this relatively minor game by Bear Bryant. When one is asked to name two unbeaten teams this year, one immediately thinks of Ohio State then will stutter before throwing out something like San Diego State. Believe it or not, Arizona State has not lost. It won’t matter though in this high-scoring contest as Nebraska will show Bear where to go. If one has a chance to watch any bowl game besides the major four, watch this one—there’ll be lots of action. Final will be something like Nebraska 41, Arizona State 35.

Astro-Bluebonnet Bowl, December 27, Texas and Colorado. This is one of the four bowl games in which both teams are rated in the top 10.

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.