April 17, 1975 The Davidsonian Seven | The Davidsonian

Nicoll wins $7000 Watson grant, examines l’Occitan
By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. Features Editor

A young Frenchman of 20, a university student, slashes red paint across a wall in Montpellier. He boldly paints in l’Occitan, a Southern French dialect: Ireland, Vietnam, l’Occitan-- the same combat. He is not afraid of his blatancy, but strolls casually, swinging his bucket of red paint to another section of the wall. There he colors the same words.

There is a quest for partial autonomy for l’Occitan, a region in southern France, that drove this young man to write these slogans. This quest is part of a study planned by Thom Nicoll, winner of a Watson Fellowship. Evidence of ethnic regionalistic movements is not only seen in Montpellier, but other groups, like several areas of France and Scotland, have found it necessary to identify themselves culturally as well as politically, according to Nicoll.

Just why these European minorities have suddenly surged for more political and cultural recognition are some of the questions Nicoll will investigate in his study of French and Scottish minorities. His proposed study won a $7000 Watson Fellows grant.

“I’m basing my study on the ‘fourth world,’ or the small cultural subgroups of a country that have become conscious of themselves. And many have become militant,” Nicoll said. “There are many European minorities doing this, so I will limit my study to three groups—the nationalistic movement in Scotland, the Brittany movement in northern France, and l’Occitania in southern France,” he said.

Bevan investigates Greek nomenclature
By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. Features Editor

“The ancient Greeks had no scientifically consistent terminology for plants. Consequently, one plant can confusingly be called different names throughout various classical texts,” said John Bevan, a recently selected Watson fellowship winner. “There has been a great schism between the study of scientific botany and the classical Greek botany. I’d like to see both studies brought together.”

Bevan’s plan, which won him the approval and $7000 funding of the Watson Fellowship Committee, will attempt to help breach this schism. “I certainly won’t be able to entirely unite the studies,” he smiled. “But in a sense, that is what my study represents,” he added.

Bevan will travel through Greece to carry out his proposed study. “There are several ways to clarify this mess. I plan to use such classical works as that of Theophrastus. He was the first Greek to attempt a scientific essay on plants and he was also a student of Aristotle.” Before the time of Theophrastus, the only records of plant life are medical records, according to Bevan.

“I want to try to catalogue the same plants that Theophrastus and other classical writers have described in their work and clear up some of this confusion,” he said. The classical texts are full of folklore about plants as well as plant description, according to Bevan. “One writer says it is necessary to run around a certain plant three times before picking it,” he laughed.

The Greeks were more concerned with the use of plants and this concern is evident in the plants' names, according to Bevan. “There’s a type of oak tree they named yokes,” he said. “The Minoans differed from the Greeks in that they seem to have thought of plants in a more aesthetic sense. The Minoans lived on Crete around 1500 B.C., but their aesthetic view of plants is evident in the little remaining pottery and art that has been found,” said Bevan.

Even though Greece is one of the richest areas of flowers in the world, the best place to find them is in archaeological excavation sites instead of the bare countryside, according to Bevan. “It’s the sheep that cause the problem. They roam unfenced throughout Greece and they eat flowers,” he smiled. “Consequently, fenced archaeological sites are the best areas to find varied species of flowers,” he added.

Bevan plans to leave for Europe around the first of July. “I want to spend part of the summer at Oxford researching my project,” he said. “Then I plan to start collecting down in the islands. I hope to take advantage of the herbarium at a university in Athens,” he said. Bevan plans to return to the U.S. around July 1976. “I guess I’d better get back and look into grad schools,” he said.

Nicoll will center his study on the language and literature of these areas as it relates to the politics involved. “The most important problem is language. L’Occitan wants to keep its own language in the schools,” he said. “I will study past and present literature written in these groups.”Ethnic groups are arising in so many areas, the ‘problem’ of unity is almost universal, according to Nicoll. “The problem of the ethnic reach for partial autonomy also ties back to the U.S. For example, the American Indians and the Chicanos,” he said. “This is an important study because it is a universal problem. It will be interesting to see if France will hold together.”

The cause of these group outbursts could stem from a variety of reasons. “One theory holds that the student revolt of ’68 in France led to the outbursts. Another theory is the idea of a United Europe encompassed by involvement in NATO and The Common Market made national loyalties weaker. Some people suspect IRA involvement in Brittany,” he said. “It has been militant there, as a radio and a television station were blown up,” said Nicoll.

“In Scotland, the nationalist party is a legitimate party,” he said. Oil finds off the coast of Scotland gave impetus to the nationalistic cause as they increased economic benefits. Political and cultural ideas surrounding the movements in France will be studied through the languages used by each group. “I hope to learn Italian and German,” he said. “These may help me in understanding the different dialects, but Parisian French will enable me to communicate with the French groups.”

Nicoll took his junior year abroad in Montpellier last year. He plans to leave for Europe in July. “I hope to study in Scotland, for I want to take advantage of the school in St. Andrews, the Institute of Scottish Studies,” he said.

The catalogue remains accurate. Well, all of that is certainly the truth. Charlotte is a town indeed—although an overgrown one at that—and distinguishable from those larger cities by its peculiar lack of culture, nightlife, and intellectual or poetic sensitivities. I say that because I believe it to be true, and I hope that the Davidson alumni who have been so actively engaged in that worthwhile pursuit of keeping that World Football League team in the fair city of Churches, instead of supporting any of those things that their education here should have taught them to admire—if only the institution itself, will read this and be inspired.

You see, when it comes right down to it, I wouldn’t want my college to be supported by such Philistines—you know the ones I am talking about, the ones who think that we shouldn’t have desubsidized football, that fraternities are a great thing, that Cunningham and Martin are adequate facilities since science and art aren’t really either moneymakers or entertaining, etc. I could go on and on, as I sometimes do, but I’d like to save something for future onslaughts on those delightful topics.

STUDENT BODY—“fairly represents the flower of Southern culture and home training.” Now isn’t that a helluva admission. I mean, as proud as I am of being from the South, and as willing as I am to offer a defense when dictated by circumstance; what more repressive influence can you name than that of Southern culture and home training? I’m not speaking of merely the repression of blacks and women, but of free thinking, progress, and the very me, but perhaps Chalmers could explain it.

“To spend the four formative years...among such associates...is an inestimable privilege” indeed, and the resultant warped perspective is one from which we may never recover completely. “Even at Davidson a young man if he will, can find undesirable associates.” Aha! I have finally found where I must fit in. “Let it be distinctly understood that no claim is made (but one is implied) that there are no bad boys at Davidson. The habits and traditions of the college are all in favor of purity (that was pre-coeducation), sobriety (that was before beer licenses for the Union), and gentlemanly conduct (some things o