Eight

February 6, 1975

Branching Out

The Davidsonian

(Photo by Leon Venable)

Snow-laden branches fell on cars in the Cannon-Sentelle parking lot during the Tuesday ice storm.

...- Church Stifles Freedoms

(Continued from page 3)
unfortunate incidents of individuals whose response to job security is a slothful apathy is anybody’s guess. But do the advantages outweigh this disadvantage?

The advantage of tenure as recognized by the faculty is that it provides for freedom of expression — social, political, and economic — by professors without fear of reprisal by higher authorities.

Yet like Jacob laboring in the wilderness those seven long years for his bride, faculty members must earn their right to speak and contribute to the effectiveness of this church-related college.

Is it wise to ask that creative thought be denied expression for that large a part of one’s career if such creativity conflicts with accepted interpretations of exactly what a “church-related college” is?

Returning to the college’s statement of purpose, it says that in the selection of teachers, the college “seeks men and women of genuine spirituality.”

The question then becomes one of definition of that spirituality.

From my perspective it is hoped that the college will forever encourage its professors to speak out, and to take seriously that portion of the statement of purpose which asserts that “Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits to the adventures of the mind. Hence it encourages teachers and students to explore the facts of the universe through the full and dedicated use of their intellectual purpose.”

Davidson must never allow itself to maintain a staff of Christians of “spiritual character,” who constantly defend the status quo in the interest of obtaining tenure.

Author James G. Branscome says of such colleges that, “being a graduate of a Christian college I know firsthand that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, distinguishable about Christian colleges—except their dreary haughtiness.”

College Opens Grey House

(Continued from page 2)

Again this year, the program suffered from a lack of student interest and participation. This factor and the amount of work required by the project have tended to discourage the group, though the group members hope to continue the project in the spring.

Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls believes the program concept was hurt by the lack of competition between different groups; the fact that any group that applied was likely to be accepted was an impediment to the growth of much interest in the concept. She said that the program “has not been unsuccessful” but pointed out that similar programs that have been successful at other colleges have had paid residence advisers who are considered part of the programs. Nicholls and mine were too busy to spend much time working with the programs. Terry said that he would be happy to have a group develop a program residence plan in the future, but for now, the concept is over.

Art Review

Cub Critic Blasts Trite Water Works

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

There comes a time in the life of every young art reviewer when he or she is given the golden opportunity to blast the hell out of what one may call downright bad art.

However, I question whether or not this show (or whatever) of watercolors by Ward Jackson may even be considered art and thus be categorically associated with real art.

Jackson mentions in the prospectus that these works are a release from his “more austere paintings done in the winter months in New York.” I agree.

As far as I can tell, just a release. I think I wish we could see those “more austere paintings” from New York so that we here at Davidson could more fully appreciate Jackson’s release.

I hate to actually deal with the works themselves, but if I must say something, then let me say that at least Jackson’s work is consistent — consistently trite, consistently the same size, consistently poor in handling of the medium, and consistently uninteresting.

If you would like to miss one of the shows in this year’s Davidson Exhibitions, then seriously consider avoiding Cunningham Fine Arts Building until February 20. That should be long enough to miss this one.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north

Super Deals

Call Zach Long right away 892-8021, Ext 222

Fuged in the CHEAPEST way to Europe this Summer

WORLD FAMOUS

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI!

Friday, Feb. 7 8 & 10:30 P.M.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: George C. Scott

Love $1.00

Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30

HATTIE’S Subs — Pizzas — Cold & Hot Sandwiches Imported Beers — Cold Draught

HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.