the davidsonian October 3, 1975

Astronomical paper use demands

A tremendous amount of paper in all forms wafts by us every day. So much of this paper is wasted, that

By ROBERT HUTCHINSON
Staff Writer

There have been numerous debates as to whether or not our lives are ruled by time, but not much thought has ever been given to the thought that paper rules our lives. It’s everywhere - in our rooms, our halls, our johns, our classrooms, our sidewalks - wherever we are, it is.

According to Communications Director Martha Byrd, the college buys 87,000 standard sheets of stationery per year, as well as 24,000 executive size sheets and 6,000 second sheets for both styles. Paper is ordered through several different printers, who buy it by the carton from paper wholesalers. A carton contains as many as 4,000 huge uncut sheets of paper; 25” x 38” is a standard size sheet.

On the average, having only a portion of a carton printed up costs sixty percent more than buying the whole carton. As a small establishment, Davidson rarely has call to buy a whole carton’s worth of paper.

The powers-that-be are keenly sensitive in their purchasing of paper and printing. If only half a carton of paper is needed, saving money may occur by either purchasing a whole carton and having it stored in a printer’s warehouse or by shopping around and buying an already-broken carton.

Saving money took a large step forward this year when one standard letterhead took priority over the seventeen different letterheads that were used by various departments last year.

Interestingly enough, buying recycled paper is neither economic nor advisable. Recycled paper is generally more expensive and its color and consistency varies with each new batch.

Cost of the paper coming through the Communications Office is, to a large extent, incalculable. Different departments place different orders that will eventually be served by different printers. However, a very rough estimate can be made on the cost of departmental stationery.

A typical department will spend about $50 per year on stationery. (For example, the Chemistry Department buys $35 worth of regular letterhead and $16 worth of special letterhead through the Communications Office each year.)

Taking all departments and certain organizations into consideration, about $750 per year is spent for departmental stationery alone. Add this to the requirements of massive-use departments like alumni, to college catalogs, to commencement programs and all kinds of special publications, the problem can actually become frightening.

Slater is becoming increasingly more paperized. This year, they are using a special plastic-type paper. (I’d never heard of it either.) According to Mildred Trull, Ron Scott’s secretary, Slater uses roughly 10,000 napkins per week and about 6,000 cups per week. Total cost for all paper supplies is about $225 per week. Add these up and you come out in the neighborhood of 330,000 napkins and 200,000 cups annually - about $7,500 per year on paper supplies.

The Union has a $1,000 yearly budget for announcement sheets. In addition, they spend $230 for Artist Series brochures, $371 for poster paper, and $171 for Union letterhead stationery (these are last year’s figures). Each year, probably $2,000 comes out of the Union for paper.

Grover Meetze and the Physical Plant boys buy 252 cases of toilet paper (100 rolls per case) and 485 cases of paper towels (10 packages per case) per year. The cost of these supplies is about $10,500.

A final important consideration is the Xerox and mimeograph paper. On the average, there are about 43,000 Xeroxed copies made per month and about 120,000 mimeographed copies.

Copying paper costs $2.96 per thousand sheets (we’ve got a special deal). That’s approximately $500 per month or $5,000 per year spent on copying paper (exclusive of Xerox and mimeograph printing costs).

All told, probably $35,000 is spent each year for paper and paper supplies. Add in the laundry, student supplies, and various incalculable others, the total is probably close to $75,000. That’s a lot of paper!

When everything is considered the College probably spends as much as $75,000 a year for paper.

There is much consideration of costs and conservation on the administration/buying level. Citations of savings within the Communications Office have already been made.

The burden of responsibility for conservation lies not on the buyers, but on the faculty and student body. Excesses are evident. A stack of last fall’s popular film schedule is easily spotted in the Union. A perfunctory glance in the snack bar reveals strewn napkins. From time to time, the trees are “decorated” with toilet paper. By granting the veracity of conservationist/environmentalist concerns for cost and supply of paper, perhaps conscious restraints are in order.