February 20, 1975 The Davidsonian Five

Letters To The Editor

Entrepreneurs

To the Editor:

Thursday morning at 2 a.m. Addison and I boarded the train for Andorra. It was 5 a.m. in the second-class waiting room in Perpignan with a businessman who thought we were nuts talking and laughing, and a beautiful dark-skinned dark-haired woman with a child, who boarded the same connection to Latour-Carol but got off a stop earlier in Font-Frede. By 9 a.m. we were eating bread and butter and warming up with hot chocolate at the “Gare Internationale” in Latour. No busses to Andorra. So we walked the 14 kms. to town only to find that the nearest ski station is 13 kms. away. Still thinking of getting to Andorra somehow, we began walking to Spain. Some ways down a Pyrenees farm road we encountered the Spanish border control: two men in a hut. One of them wanted to see my bag. After a brief inspection revealed only a book of Rimbaud’s poetry, a French-English dictionary, a flannel shirt, white socks, and an alarm clock, the nice man calculated shrewdly that Addison and I were no grave threats to the dictatorship, and let us pass. So, about noon, at the end of our 5 km. jaunt, we found that haven of havens: Puigcerda. If we take the 1 a.m. bus to Andorra, we can’t get out until next morning. Back to Latour. We cross the border once again. I walk around the right side of the border barrier--having come in on the same side, entering a leftist, I walk out of Spain a rightist. France has had a great influence on me. We stop and sit on the other side. The snow-capped mountains surround us, and a stream dominates the atmosphere with its rushing. Along the tracks to the “Gare Internationale.” There is a train leaving for the Port Puymorens ski station at 2. By 3:30 I am on the slopes (for $6). The mountain gives me a hard time and I am going to be late if I try to ski the rest of the way down.

So I catch a bus with 50 egotistical 8-year-olds who ski like Killy (and know it), back to the telesiege. Quick hitch to the ski station Gare and Addison’s waiting for me. He has seen the ski patrol and wondered why I am late. But the 6:00 train is made. The three hours to Toulouse is like a drugged eternity of dead dozing. By midnight we are back in Montpellier at le Yam’s eating Steak-Frites. Tomorrow morning-Rimbaud, “Illuminations!” It has been a day “d’Ivresse.” “Nous savons donner notre vie tout entiere tous les jours.” Come JYA! There are many methods.

Jonathan Monroe ’76
Montpelier, France

To the Editor:

I wish to clarify a statement which I made that appeared in the February 6 Davidsonian. In my report to the SGA Senate concerning Psychological Counseling I stated that Dr. Workman had seen only seven people this term.

Meredith Hall
Torque Increase

I have been an Elder in the First Church of the Automobile for some time but seldom have I seen such concern for the state of the nation and the world as was evident in our last meeting. Now, my church has always believed in tolerance. Witness the fact that we have allowed the horse to exist long after the automobile took its place. We have even refrained from collisions with those little cars (cars with less than a 350 cubic inch engine displacement). While we tolerate these moral midgets we see a weakening in the moral fiber of the country. In the days of moral fervor we watched with deep satisfaction the replacement of national monuments with parking lots. Of course today’s weaklings may disagree, but there has been nothing more moving to me than to view the communal parking of several hundred cars knowing each one has at least 400 cubic inches under the hood. These are dark days, who would have thought America would have stood for reduction in speed limits. The only ray of hope is that most drivers ignore such tyranny. This has always been a country of principle. There are some things more dear than life itself. What is man without an opportunity for 500 pounds of torque under his foot? We as a people have always risen when attacked. Now our most precious treasure is endangered. We must rally to the cause. It is a great comfort to us that Henry Kissinger is a man of such strong moral fiber. Driving in a 472 cubic inch automobile has helped him remember his pioneer instincts. We would hate to come to war with the Arab states. But remember oil is thicker than blood! The Elders have voted to put out bumper stickers saying: “Honk if you love Torque.”

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.

Letter To The Editor

Rats Monopolizethe Editor:

Hello there! I’m one of those deprived fellows who lives off campus. I have no complaints, mind you. It was my choice where I live, and I certainly prefer it that way. You know, I’ll admit I’m somewhat of a country boy, a little red around the neck and all, but where I come from the people seem to have a good deal of consideration for one another. Seeing as how it’s such a ruckus for me to be scootin’ back and forth to the library all the time with my books, I generally do most of my studying at home. But as usually happens, once or twice per term even I must depend on E.H. Little and his vast amount of bound knowledge in order to write a paper. So I gather up my things, strap on my wings and head over to the library to be a fly. The trouble is that when I get there, there seems to be no place for me to light. I mean the carrels are all cluttered with garbage—not people but garbage. So as a rule I end up spreading out at a table with three or four other people, two of whom invariably know each other and insist on carrying on a conversation.

Now I’ve walked around the library and observed. It seems to me that many students are leaving books in the carrels just to reserve their places there and even though they may not be working at the time, their carrel will be available when something comes up and they need it. Please don’t get me wrong. I understand that there is often a need to take over a carrel for a few days or even for a week maybe, but I’m convinced there are students who do this for a whole term. Personally, I think that would be great if there were just twelve hundred carrels in the library, but there are not. Now, having hopefully made things clearer, I see just two solutions to the problem: 1) that the college buy more of those little study-desks for us to use (and I think we all realize the absurdity of that solution) 2) for those guilty persons to alleviate the problem by vacating the premises. (In other words, pack up your sterno stoves, roll up your sleeping bags and get out). I got some wood to chop.

Jack Greer, ’75
Davidson College

Hot Spots, Hot Pots, and Big Daddy’s
By BOB ENRIGHT And MARK YOW

One of the new and few additions to the coveted catalog of culinary hot-spots in the Davidson locale is a restaurant known as Big Daddy’s, located west of Mooresville on Lake Norman. Formerly known as the Chesapeake Oyster Bar, an eatery whose neglected appearance long evinced a desire on my part to stop there, Big Daddy’s is one of several chain restaurants of the same name in the Carolinas. Though never having been to such spots of legendary lore as Calabash, Morehead City, or Nags Head (just give me a chance), I would have to say that the fare at Big Daddy’s is the most palatable of its kind in this part of the state. It’s also one place where you’ll wait in line for thirty minutes if you don’t have reservations. How many places in Mooresville can boast that? It at least makes you think there’s something worth waiting for.

Fortunately for us, we were ushered past countless customers who preceded us in line, and led to a secluded corner table from which our eyes attacked the menu. Obviously, those Davidson ID’s did the trick, a note to Messrs. Jung of the House of Jung. If you haven’t already figured it out, the specialty at Big Daddy’s is seafood, and lots of it. A word of warning: it is not your typical all-you-can-eat-for-$2.25 southern-fried fish camp. Big Daddy’s caters to more exclusive tastes offering such delicacies as deviled crab, quahogs (stuffed clams), oysters in various forms (fried, raw, or in cocktails, the kind you eat), and key lime pie which was the best imitation of the real thing I’ve had for 50¢ (maybe it even was the real thing). The menu is quite extensive, and with a slip of the finger, expensive, too. Prices range from about $3.50 up (though you’d best figure on about double that). Nobody went away hungry. The food was quite good, right down to the ever-present fries and slaw. Finally, thanks to the presence of John Guthrie and several others, it ranked as the first and only time all year we’ve encountered fellow Davidson students on a Saturday outing. You just can’t keep a good thing quiet.