September 26, 1975

The Davidsonian

Ruggers drop match but show improvement

By VIC MCMILLAN
Staff Writer

A tremendous improvement from an earlier loss to Greensboro has given the Davidson Rugby Club an optimistic lift for the
remainder of the season, despite a 24-12 loss to tough N.C. State.

.. « policy
(Continued from page 11)

basketball courts, an indoor-outdoor pool, squash courts, and a dance studio.

“When it comes into being, the new facility would be completely co-educational,” Cartmill stated.

The area of women’s athletics was brought up at the meeting.

“I think it’s time we should be going in a more formal direction in the area of women's athletics at
Davidson,” Cartmill stated.

“Right now there’s a strong possibility that a full-time women’s staff could be added next year,” Cartmill continued before pointing
out that although the timing of such a move would be appropriate, it would be dependent on the budget allocated
to the department.

In the immediate future, Cartmill expressed the hope that a field hockey team would be formed this fall on a
club basis. If participation and enthusiasm are significant, Cartmill felt that the sport might be moved to the intercollegiate level
next year.

In summarizing the results of the meeting, Cartmill felt that the most productive asset was the foundation that was laid
for communication between the components of the athletic program at Davidson.

“It was a disseminating of information,” Cartmill commented. “All sides had their say.”

The meeting was the first of its kind since Cartmill took over the post of Athletic Director nearly two years
ago, and he felt that in the future other meetings of this nature would be a welcome addition to the
formulation and review of athletic policies at Davidson.

“A meeting like this held once a year would be a real asset to the program at Davidson,” Cartmill concluded.

Support the YW/YMCA

The no-substitution rule, imposed by the newly-formed Carolina Rugby Football Union, caused the loss of Paul Henschen and Ronnie Benfield
to the Cats in the first half. This made a significant contribution to the defeat.

Forced to play with two fewer men for most of the game, the Davidson club still managed some bright moments.

Following a well-placed punt by Bruce Wallis, Mike Stick drove through several Wolfpack defenders before lateralling to freshman standout Bucky
Banks for the first Davidson try.

Again the Wildcats scored as Wilbur Swaim slashed through the Wolfpack scrum.

Bob Schermer returned to last year’s form, making both field goal attempts following the tries.

Wayne Cross escorts new trainers Mary Hredesky, Janice Snyder, and Leea Pittenger off the field after ministering to the gridiron
wounded.

Big Discounts! Save up to $3.00!

Records

Top artists!

STUDENT STORE

Come early for best selection!
