Williams sees faculty program void
By SCOTT REID
Senior News Editor

There is no formal “faculty development program” at Davidson College at this time, although Vice President for Development Craven Williams and others would like to see one put together as soon as possible.

Williams, who is quick to point out that he is not an expert on developing the teaching skills of faculty members, devoted a section of the Internal Case Statement to “faculty development.” (The Internal Case Statement is the 75-page document which is the preliminary outline of the College’s goals for development by 1987. Williams is its primary author.)

In outlining “a planned and systematic program of faculty development,” Williams lists five activities which could be included. The first is an “In-Service Training for New Teachers.” Second is a program by which classroom presentations by professors could be video-taped and reviewed by the professors themselves.

The third proposal calls for funding of faculty research and experimentation into the nature and means for improving teaching methods. “Funds are necessary to allow faculty members to try new approaches whereby students might learn easier or better,” explains the Internal Case Statement.

Williams’ fourth proposal suggests that “at least one symposium a year” should be conducted “which focuses on the role of the college professor, the state of undergraduate education” and related subjects. Outside experts would conduct much of the symposium and provide consultation for individual professors.

A Mentorship Training Program is the fifth proposal. Its purpose would be to develop and improve “skills in human relationships” primarily between faculty and students. It would raise such questions as: “What kind of relationships with students will promote development and growth?” and “What kind of gestures reflect understanding and instill trust in faculty-student relationships?”

Finally, the Case Statement noted that the intellectual growth of individual faculty members outside of the classroom is currently promoted through the sabbatical leave program, and special workshops, meetings, and seminars. As it is set up now, the sabbatical program provides full pay for a faculty member to leave the college for one term after every six years he or she spends here.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Frontis Johnston said, “I wish we had longer sabbaticals than one term at full pay. Yet to replace a (See FACULTY, page 11)

---

DAVIDSON POLICE DEPT.
PRECINCT NO. 2

Precinct 2: Lieutenant Jackie Laura Moses Hughes stands beside sign of security.

---

Dean’s office establishes assault reporting procedure
By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Four members of the college administration met recently to establish procedures to be followed in the event of an assault or theft on campus. According to Assistant Dean of Students Mary Lou Dietler, she, Captain Hughes of the Security Department, Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, and Dean of Students Will H. Terry met primarily to consider procedures to follow in the event of rape or assault on campus. The group also discussed procedures to be followed if a theft occurs.

---

YMCA’s own officers blame others for disorganization
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

The Davidson YM/YWCA has recently come under attack from its own officers who charge that the YMCA is disorganized. These officers admit to missing meetings or not knowing when they are held.but somehow place the blame on others for the YMCA’s demise. Much of the blame for the disorganization and demise of the YMCA belongs with the makeup of Davidson College students. At least that seems to be the consensus of opinion of many YMCA officers. Whatever the reason, disorganization has taken its toll on YMCA programs. The Step Tutor Program is funded by the YMCA and attracted more than 85 students last year to help grammar school children in the area after school. According to YMCA Vice President Karl Goodhouse, however, the Step Tutor Program “would like very much to be out from under the jurisdiction of the Y.” The YMCA is still in the process of buying an old Southern Seaboard Railroad depot. So far, the YMCA has spent approximately $4000 toward this purchase. Another $2000 remains to be paid, yet the YMCA, in the words of Treasurer John Jones, gets “a speaker to come talk to us in the depot maybe twice a month and sponsors a lunch there once a week. The decision to acquire the depot was made 6 or 7 years ago. If I were starting over again I might look hard to determine if it was worth the money. The thought among preceding YMCA cabinets has been that it is worth the money,” continued Jones. The original plans for the depot were never consummated. It was to be a place that would provide recreation for grammar school students. This responsibility has now been taken over by the town of (See YMCA, page 3)

YMCA Depot: The YM/YWCA $15,000 depot stands empty and unused.

Theft occurs or if a suspicious person is seen on campus. “In the event of a rape or assault, the police should be called immediately. I cannot stress this enough,” said Dietler. “After calling the police, the person should go straight to the college infirmary.” According to Dietler, the police will notify either her or Terry. “One of us will meet the student at the infirmary,” she said. “It is important that someone meet the individual and make sure everything is all right. The person should have someone to talk to. Also, either Dean Terry or I will contact the student’s parents if necessary. Sometimes a situation like this will upset the parent more than the student,” said Dietler. The group stressed that a description of the attacker should be given to the police. Besides such details as age, hair color, eye color, height, weight, and build, a description should include any distinguishing marks or characteristics. “Watch for scars, tattoos, eye glasses, a limp, and so forth,” said Dietler. “These details are especially helpful to the police. Also try and see if the attacker uses a car. Remember such things (about the car) as color, year, make, body style, and license number if possible. Tell these things to the police,” she said. The group emphasized that thefts, suspicious persons on campus, or suspicious incidents should be reported to the police immediately. According to Dietler, the Security Department has installed six emergency phones on campus. One phone is in the first-floor lobby of Dana Science Building and a second is in the elevator in the library. The other four are on each of the four floors of Watts Dormitory. “These phones should be used only in an emergency, as they are direct lines to the police department,” said Dietler.