December 19, 1975

The Davidsonian

"Aftersunrise" Shumaker

By BARBARA PAYNE
Staff Writer

The works of Rita Shumaker, on display in the Union Gallery through Dec. 19, contain blatant statements on the oppressions of womanhood. Symbols of fertility and of the woman’s reproductive tract are prevalent throughout the exhibit. Shumaker’s painting "Metamorphosis" depicts a woman who is seemingly attempting some heavenward transpiration, with arms outstretched and eyes turned toward the sky. At her sides hang two large, dark brown ovaries which appear to be acting as weights. The remainder of the painting is bright yellow and green.

"Tsis", a photographic essay, carries the obvious connotations of fertility. Shumaker uses the contour of the egg frequently; it is found in her paintings "Crack in the Cosmic Egg," "Thoth," and in two of her batik wall-hangings. "Herself" depicts a woman in front of several triangular structures. These triangles could very well symbolize the hearth and the home, and Shumaker places woman in her "proper and fitting" place.

Almost all of the paintings in the exhibit deal with some aspect of womanhood, the only exception being "Reflections," which focuses on phallic symbolization. There is an interesting change of approach to this painting as Shumaker utilizes a highly geometric design, contrasting the more fluid style in the remainder of her works.

Shumaker’s faces have little individual character and hence seem to be universally identifiable. Faces often appear in threes, each face overlapping another and no face being totally definable. Her painting "Autumn Journeyman" could be the saga of any man’s journey. Shumaker gives her subject a face of no description—yet that face remains the focal point through the use of color and contrast of shape.

The painting entitled "Thoth" is particularly intriguing. An Egyptian deity, Thoth was the eldest son of the sun-god Re. According to Egyptian mythology, Thoth was the god of wisdom and writing.

Eyes of bridge world focus toward forthcoming Davidson tournament

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Executive Editor

Beginning in January, Davidson College students may find themselves playing cards for money. The stakes are $200, $100, and $50 scholarships, and the game is duplicate bridge. The American Contract Bridge League is sponsoring a bridge tournament at Davidson College and at Queens College. The goal is to increase awareness and interest in bridge on college campuses across the country.

"The ACBL is sponsoring our tournament as an experiment. We are the only college who, along with Queens, will have a tournament like this. The eyes of the bridge world will be on us. If the tournament is successful and a lot of students participate, then the ACBL might sponsor other tournaments and will certainly increase the prize money in the future," said Junior Mike Russ, who is coordinating the tournament.

Russ hopes to have 15 tables of bridge involved in each session. This would involve having 60 decks of cards on hand because in duplicate bridge, everyone plays the same hand. "We will need about 60 decks of cards and the various scoreboards so that we can be official. Bill Woodson, the president of the Charlotte chapter of the ACBL, is going to provide us these things," said Russ.

Woodson is the man who devised the idea of having the tournament.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A bridge tournament in the colleges. “Mr. Woodson is a special man. He has made all of this possible for us. The only thing the school will have to buy is refreshments. The Union games committee is doing that for us,” said Russ. Interest in bridge at Davidson is high. “A lot of people play before dinner down at the houses here,” said Russ. “We have had five or six tables for tournaments over in the Honors center once a week all Fall term. I think these people are the hard-core bridge players, but I also believe that a lot more people will show up to play for money,” continued Russ. The tournament begins on January ninth and will continue until February. To qualify for prizes, a player must play at least six hands and no more than nine. He can only have the same partner for four hands. “You have to be versatile to win. There are a lot of good bridge players at Davidson and I hope they can come out because the whole bridge world will be looking at us,” concluded Russ.

-Leon Venable

Thoth symbolizes womanhood folklore. Thoth would appear in human form with the head of an ibis when issuing proclamations or when performing some sacred task. Shumaker portrays the birth of Thoth—of the split eggshell (he was born an ibis) and his moon-identity. He holds a transparent moon-like disc under each arm (again, perhaps depicting a woman’s ovaries) and his broad feather headdress is representative of the fallopian tubes. The painting on the whole looks somewhat like a sixth-grade sex-education chart. Shumaker frequently employs the technique of emphasizing her subject by painting it in white or grey and by setting it against a dark or brightly colored background. In “Mist Rise After Rain,” she sets a solidified grey mist against a bright blue background—an interesting interpretation of such a nondescript, shapeless mass. Bilateral symmetry is common to all of Shumaker’s work and is particularly noticeable in her wall hangings. Her color schemes are varied, ranging from the offensive to the delightfully subtle. Symbolism is the main key to understanding Shumaker’s ideas, mythological symbolism being often used. Suggestions of literary symbolism can be found in “After Sunrise.” The prominent place of a rose in the painting could be analogous to Yeats’ rose, the image of life, of perfection, and of eternal beauty. Generally speaking, Shumaker takes an eclectic approach. She works both in acrylics and watercolors, in batik, macrame, and weaving, and does a great deal of photography. Her watercolor technique, however, seems to carry the greatest amount of personal expression. The macrame-weaving combinations (the “Abandoned Cage” and “Last Year’s Nest”) are stereotypes and hence rather ineffective as artistic statements. Shumaker’s wall hangings successfully employ an interesting combination of quilting and batik, showing a good understanding of design and textural effect. Her efforts in photography should probably remain classified as efforts; ideas are not exemplified as well as those in her paintings. Shumaker’s acrylic technique is good, but in some cases reverts to a watercolor style, not fully realizing the potential of acrylics. In these paintings, she works with a “stroke” effect—a very abrupt, interrupted application of paint to the canvas.