May 9, 1975

The Davidsonian

The Silver Fox lures more bait

Emotionalism pervades CBS analyses

To the Editor:

On the subject of the unconditional surrender of the government of South Vietnam to the Viet Cong, the CBS special, “Vietnam, A War That is Finished,” gave an emotionally overpowering history of the conflict. The main points in the CBS assessment were that the essentially progressive communist forces had finally achieved the defeat of the American puppet-government and the deserved humiliation of us evil Americans, and that deliberately intransigent, evil leadership had gulled the public into supporting an evil war. Walter Cronkite then appealed to Americans to “end the recriminations” and face the future of American foreign policy. This would be the role of the self-deprecating Saint George in a world of polite but fire-breathing red and pink dragons (China, Russia, etc.). It seems probable that this will be the hope of the majority before long.

Widely held opinion

This seems unfortunate. A widely held opinion of this kind would lock America into a foreign policy very likely to be self-defeating on two counts. A self-defeating policy would mean that instead of ending the emotional myopia that has characterized our foreign policy, the Vietnam War would cause the renewal of the myopia on a new, popular, and grand scale. A grim side-effect of the propagation of this opinion will be domestic political conflict as futile and unacceptable as the military conflict of the 1960s. First, the emotional blaming of Presidents for this nation’s Vietnam wounds will hardly “end the recriminations.” Second, the simplistic view of history as a contest between good guys and bad guys would be continued.

Simplistic view

Is it not our simplistic view of history that has gotten us into the quagmire of Southeast Asia in the first place? By it we assumed that the Ky and Thieu regimes desired Western-style liberal democracy (virtue) whereas the Viet Cong advocated totalitarianism (sin). Such simple formulae disregard the myriad social, economic, and organizational imperatives of a successful democratic state. The failure to allow for the difference between Far Eastern and Western world views has also been a feature of our assessment of the Vietnam situation. The failure of this assessment is obvious. Will the same studied naivete in the assessment of our own position ensure a better future?

This tendency to shroud foreign policy in emotionalism can be seen in some examples from our glorious past. In 1776 the signers of the Declaration of Independence accused King George III of malevolent tyranny. It has taken the 20th century to grant Mad George his humanity. His present reputation is that of a stubborn, though somewhat undiscerning defender of the rights of Parliament and the British Constitution. During World War II, the British and American governments missed a chance to get rid of Hitler and install a civilized, albeit conservative military government in Germany instead of the Nazis. The reason: all Germans were evil and untrustworthy, and the offer from conservative Germans was obviously a trick.

In attacking the simplistic view, we must indict those who hold it most faithfully: the public—ourselves! We in Davidson, as a thinking community, have little excuse for adopting the easy explanation. We must certainly make value judgments as to the conduct and effect of the war. But to concentrate on making condemnations of individuals is to miss an important lesson of the twentieth century. History is not a contest between the elect and the damned. An adequate assessment of our involvement in Vietnam must wait for the passage of time. The evidence simply is not all in. The extraordinarily complex subject of balance-of-power politics in the 1960s cannot be analyzed until their effects of the 1970s are known. It may even be that some benefits from that tragic war may yet be discovered or created.

One judgment we can make. Foreign aidmust in the future be in such a form as will contribute to the social welfare of the poor in underdeveloped nations. Not only is this a widely acceptable direction for guiding our policy; it also would prevent us from "losing" to weaker opponents. Until more evidence is available, we cannot expect CBS to give accurate analyses at such short notice. When done with such emotionalism, such works of art are terribly divisive politically. The conflict between Angels and Devils goes on in Heaven. Attempts to transport it to Earth have been brutal and fatal to too much of Vietnam. Will we allow it to do the same to our political community?

Biff Kirby '76
Davidson College

Wicker lauds young, drunk, twenty

To the Editor:

Ale, man, ale’s the stuff to drink
For fellows whom it hurts to think:
Look into the pewter pot
To see the world as the world’s not.
A.E. Housman

I'm writing regarding the unsigned article, "Aleing Campus Suffers Emerging Alcohol Ethic," which appeared on page 4 of the May 2 Davidsonian. It seems that the anonymous author (Ed. note: Anne Ficklen) would be in agreement with Housman. The author accuses Davidson of having created a "beer ethic" and enshrining "it just as snugly as the statement of purpose." In addition, we students are charged with acting "like fools, helped ably by the copious quantities of free beer" during Spring Frolics weekend.

I'm not convinced that a beer ethic exists at Davidson or that anyone acted like fools. Please, whoever wrote that article, don’t try to deny anyone the expression of youthful exuberance. Thomas Wolfe in 1935 wrote about being in college, twenty and drunk like this:

And victory, joy, wild hope, and swelling certitude and tenderness surged through the conduits of our blood as we heard that drunken cry, and triumph, glory, proud belief was resting like chrism around us as we heard that cry, and turned our eyes then to the moon-drunk skies of Boston, knowing only that we were young, and drunk, and twenty, and that the power of mighty poetry was within us, and the glory of the great earth lay before us--because we were young and drunk and twenty, and could never die!

I would gladly trade my liver to be able to share Wolfe’s experience. The anonymous author’s smug satisfaction upon learning of the tragic end of Hattie’s is about as tasteful as telling dirty jokes about the deceased at a funeral.

Bruce Wicker '76
Davidson College

To the Editor:

While serving on the Goals Committee I heard many people express the opinion that our College Union needed more money to improve its social programs. I have a suggestion for obtaining some additional money for the Union.

Each year the Union program budget increases by an amount equal to what the college would have to spend to subsidize the operation of its post office contract station in the Union basement. Since the salaries for the college postal workers will increase every year, the bonus to the Union program will increase yearly. The money will be spent wisely to improve the Union program rather than wasted on a post office as a device to get students to come to the Union.

By sending the college mail through the downtown post office we will continue to have our mail handled by professional post office employees in a centralized location with a high volume of business that will permit the maximum postal service for both the college and the Town of Davidson. As space is required in the downtown post office, the college can extend the building and increase the rent to the U.S. Postal Service accordingly. In a few years the rent would repay the capital investment. Then we would have an income-producing rather than an income-consuming property. I can even envision a Union program so effective that it will require the south basement for future expansion.

J.N. Burnett
Professor of Chemistry
Davidson College