Vol. LXV, No. THREE

The Davidsonian
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Davidson College

Students exhibit apathetic response in SGA elections

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Staff Writer

Less than half the student body voted in the recent elections of SGA dorm senators and residence hall council (RHC) members. The September elections have never drawn tremendous voter interest, and according to some SGA officials, they felt that the entire process this year was quieter than ever before. One senatorial position went uncontested, and there were only three RHC races. No one filed for the RHC posts in the other five dormitories. Personal campaigning was not extensive, and publicity posters were scarce. Many students admitted they did not vote because they had not seen or heard of the candidates.

With only 30 minutes left before the filing deadline, no names had been submitted for Cannon senator, so junior hall counselor Marc Menchel filed and was elected. The Watts senatorial race drew the largest turnout, as 70 percent of the freshman girls voted. The race went into a run-off, with Joanne Hull winning.

Sophomore Tenley Shewmake was elected senator for Little. Carol Watkins canvassed door-to-door for votes in Sentelle, and her efforts won her the race there. Guy DeCenzo was the sole candidate from Richardson. Steve Cuffe, Charlie Strange, and Greg Kunkleman were elected by the Belk residents. Ed Sibley won a run-off race to become senator for Duke. In another run-off, Chuck Weber and Victor McMillan were selected off-campus senators.

The results of the three RHC races were as follows: Dean Copple was the winner in Sentelle; Holt Foushee, Curt Goho, and Kim Kepchar were chosen from Belk, and the students in other college-owned facilities picked Mark Yow. The SGA Senate will appoint members to the RHC positions not filled in the elections. These appointees and the election winners will serve through this academic year.

Poll bearers: Students vote for dorm senators and residence hall members.
-Robert Trawick

Williams foresees financial pressure

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

The next few years will bring Davidson College a new look, according to Vice President for Development, Craven Williams. The Office of Development, in conjunction with the Board of Trustees, is currently planning further physical and financial development of the college.

“Developmental offices,” said Williams, “are often incorrectly considered synonymous with fund-raising. I prefer to define our purpose as the development of understanding of the institution on the part of various publics.” This, he feels, may be done through publications and meetings with alumni and interested outside parties such as foundations or corporations. Williams’ goal is to disseminate a knowledge of the ways and means of Davidson which will aid in participation in it. As a result of the Office’s efforts, he hopes to gather an amount of active support for the college. “Once you’ve developed an understanding,” he commented, “you can acquire support through means other people can do.”

Admissions are one means of support. Some 1500 applicants were received for this year’s freshman class, from which 336 students were accepted. “But as costs increase we're going to need a...Pool of about 2000 applicants who'll pay the price we'll be asking and yet be academic enough to maintain the standards of the college.” Experiential programs provide openings for assistance from various sources, notably the 55 alumni chapters across the country. “In order to plan for experiential programs in certain fields we need friends who can offer things, especially in metropolitan areas.” Support is also necessary in order to implement the plans the Goals Committee proposed last spring—college improvements to take place over the next 12 years. “This year,” said Williams, “the Goals Committee enjoyed the luxury of meeting and planning without major financial worries.” By 1987 the Committee feels it should be able to expand the endowment to the extent which academic programs, faculty development, financial aid, and international education should require. Improvement of the physical plant will also begin, with priority given to the chemistry facilities, Art department, and future student housing, which will be planned with an eye on conversion into leaseable apartments should enrollment drop drastically. New athletic facilities are also being considered, especially on the IMAC level.

Senate report
Frustrated Union chairman
By STEPHEN BELL
Staff Writer

In a speech to the SGA Senate, Marc Menchel announced his resignation as Chairman of the Social Council of the College Union, and asked that the Senate reorganize the Union Board. In accounting for his frustrations in working with the Union, Menchel was sharply critical of Union Director C. Shaw Smith and Union President Richard Wassen. Menchel charged that under their leadership, “the Union is in need of Union by-laws,” and said that he is in the process of drafting some now. Smith was not present at the meeting. The SGA Senate does have some jurisdiction over the structures of the Union, but voted to refer the issue of new Union by-laws to one of its committees to determine the extent of that jurisdiction. Both Menchel and Wassen recommended to the Senate that Robert Meyer be appointed to replace Menchel on the Union Board. The Senate accepted Meyer’s nomination unanimously.

“All this is a long-term project,” said Williams, who cautions that the realization of these plans is dependent upon the economic stability of the nation. The college endowment gives the projects a tinge of reality, he feels, because it frees Davidson from a dependence on student enrollment, which could fluctuate drastically from year to year. Of the overall financial condition of Davidson College, Williams commented: “Davidson is not in a crisis. A crisis supposes a state of affairs beyond control. The only things that can happen after one are undesirable, for instance, a fall in academic standards or being forced to join the state system. Davidson has avoided crisis because of the prophetic planning of the Trustees and administration, who operated cautiously during the boom (See Williams, page 3).

Tuesday night, Kay Jackson was appointed to the faculty committee on extended studies. The newly elected senators were sworn in and appointed to new positions for Preyer. The issue was referred to committee.