The Davidsonian Cure-All: Davidson Infirmary Tends to Students
- Laura Moses

Goodhouse, Kimmel Initiate Seminar in Human Sexuality
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Staff Writer

“The Pill has permitted the divorce of sex and pregnancy. Today’s youth must learn to deal with both the freedoms
and responsibilities of a ‘new intimacy’,” said Biology Professor Don Kimmel, faculty organizer of Davidson’s Seminar in Human Sexuality. “We
hope the Seminar will generate informed discussion among the students concerning this topic as well as other changing attitudes of
sexuality in our society.”

Junior Karl Goodhouse has worked to initiate the Human Sexuality program. He believes “that the seminar is an innovative concept
in education at Davidson. When I came here as a freshman,” Goodhouse continued, “there was no program.”

Physicians Probe Infirmary, Terry Hopes for Upgrading
By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

The faculty Counseling and Guidance Committee met recently to discuss problems with the present set-up of Preyer Infirmary. Dean of
Students Will H. Terry, chairman of the committee, said that the committee discussed an evaluation of the infirmary which was
made this past summer.

“At the request of the Trustee Committee on Student Health and Life, three doctors who are Davidson alumni evaluated the
infirmary. They gave the college a report on the status of the infirmary in such areas as services provided, condition
of the facilities, and so forth,” said Terry.

Terry indicated that he was not at liberty to disclose the results of the evaluation at this time. However, Terry
did comment on what the Counseling and Guidance Committee had discussed. “The committee is appraising the present situation at the
infirmary to see if changes need to be made,” he said.

The “present situation” at the infirmary includes a full-time staff of three registered nurses, plus a staff of four part-time
doctors. The nurses conduct one sick call per day and the doctors conduct one sick call per day. One doctor
is on call at all times.

Another study of Preyer Infirmary was made in conjunction with the Self-Study done by the college in 1974. The college
conducts such a self-study every ten years in accordance with a requirement of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools.
The 1974 study made two recommendations for improvement of student health services.

One recommendation was “that the Student Health Services provide students appropriate information about birth control matters.” Terry elaborated on official
college policy in this area, which says that birth control is a matter entirely between doctor and patient and is
not the college’s business. “I do want students to have all the medications and information which they need, including information
on birth control. The problem at this time seems to be in the time required to distribute birth control information.
The doctors do not spend time to distribute this information,” said Terry.

Terry commented on the possibility of the infirmary actually dispensing birth control devices. “Eventually this might be handled at the
infirmary on a prescription basis. A doctor at the infirmary might write a prescription for some sort of birth control
which the student could have filled in town or possibly at the infirmary,” said Terry, and added that students pay
for their own medication prescriptions no matter where the prescription is filled.

Terry continued by saying that he feels the Human Sexuality course is an integral part of any infirmary-developed birth control
information program.

The second recommendation on student health made in the 1974 Self-Study is “that the infirmary be refurbished, replacing the beds
and providing more privacy on the second floor ward.” The Counseling and Guidance Committee discussed refurbishing the infirmary.and agreed that
changes need to be made in the physical furnishings of the infirmary.

Dealing with the important topic of human sexuality, I wanted to get involved in something, so I began talking to
some people—Will Terry, Diane Stone, and a number of professors—about my interest in such an undertaking.” Goodhouse found an eager
partner in Professor Kimmel. “Actually,” said Kimmel, “in the late summer of 1973, the faculty had discussed and informally proposed
a human sexuality course.

“Many of us were fearful and unsure about the effect of coeducation. We thought that this course might lead the
way in coping with the transition. But no one followed up on the proposal, and nothing had been initiated when
Karl came to me. In the spring of 1974, Goodhouse and Phil Safriet (with Kimmel’s help) began research for an
Extended Studies paper on human sexuality. After traveling to and studying other institutions with sexuality programs, digging into numerous books,
and examining other references, the team had compiled a detailed syllabus for a course in human sexuality.

“The next fall,” Goodhouse related, “Professor Kimmel, Dean Terry, and I worked further on details of the course. We sought
a diverse group of instructors to teach it, and soon had gathered four professors and three counselors to conduct the
program.

“We invited a number of speakers to the campus for a two-day Symposium on Human Sexuality, and the student reaction
was so good that, encouraged, we proceeded onward.” The Seminar in Human Sexuality was introduced as an Extended Studies course
this fall. Kimmel said the curriculum calls for “the examination of biological, psychological, philosophical, sociological, ethical, and religious aspects of
human sexuality.

“With this background, the students are challenged to analyze the factual information and determine their own attitudes and values. Lectures,
twice weekly, are conducted by Professors Kimmel, Kelton, Koller, and Young.”

“We deal with very broad topics,” said Kimmel. “Psychosexual development, the family unit and its changing function, religious and ethical
ramifications of today’s sexuality, and the role of man and woman at the present are just a few of the
points of discussion.”

The most innovative facet of the seminar is the small group discussions, led by Dr. Hall, Dr. Dockery, and Rev.
Otey. During the informal exchanges within these groups, students are encouraged to share ideas and experiences pertaining to human sexuality.
By testing ideas with one another, the students can better develop realistic personal attitudes about sex.

Currie tightens (Continued from page 1)

“Currie’s tightening up on the reins will mean that things will not be replaced unless they absolutely have to be,”
said Neikirk.

Neikirk has formed a new four-member budget committee on the PCC to consider the proposals made by himself and Currie
on the new money-allowance system. They have not met as of this date.

The presence of the new College Union building and the union’s expanded social program has already created some social event
scheduling conflicts between the Union and the houses on Patterson Court. For this reason, the PCC and the Union are
now going to make a new effort at coordinating their activities. Every two or three weeks throughout the year, a
Union Board member will be present at a PCC meeting. The PCC members will then plan their parties and other
events with the full knowledge of what the Union is doing, and vice-versa.

As Richard Wassen, President of the Union, recently explained, “We are pushing for the ‘total program’ concept where all Union
and PCC activities are coordinated. The problem now is establishing a line of communication between the two groups where one
has never existed before.”
