the davidsonian
December 12, 1975

Media benefits justify risks
(Continued from page 10)

The publisher guarantees its editor freedom to operate without prior restraint, i.e., censorship. This is a document dealing with student media, not simply college media, and the whole issue of freedom of expression centers on the guarantee that student editors are granted editorial freedom. If student editors are not guaranteed editorial freedom, the publications are not student publications, and the student media section can be dropped from the College Constitution.

“Giving up rights” implies that the delegation of editorial responsibilities to student editors signifies to Spencer an impossible granting of freedoms to a constituency outside the college. Spencer apparently does not recognize students as a part of the college under the jurisdiction of the Board of Trustees, or he is simply maintaining that students are not worthy of being accorded freedom of expression in student media. Neither stance is one of which the college community can be proud.

‘Press’ and ‘media’
However, the McKelway paradigm for the relationship between student publications and Davidson College is likewise inadequate in regard to the student press (currently The Davidsonian is the only publication of the four SGA-chartered student media which claims the title of “student press”). His paradigm represents exactly half of the relationship. Here the issue cannot be reduced to a publisher-paper paradigm; the issues involved in guaranteeing freedom of the press go far beyond allowing student editors to select works for a literary magazine, write an introductory handbook for freshmen, or choose pictures of campus life for yearbook nostalgia lovers.

The college relationship to the press is not only one of publisher to publication, but one of “government” guaranteeing the right to disseminate news and comment to a student fourth estate. The question remains whether the college will guarantee to students, taught here to deal critically with academic issues, the right to report the news and critically evaluate the educational experience, the institution, the community, and any other subject in the realm of ideas. Will the college guarantee on paper adherence to its “professed” ideal of freedom of the press? We prefer to think of Davidson as a community willing to take risks to maintain its ideals rather than a community complacent in maintaining a mediocre existence through harboring the status quo. And we believe that the role of a free press is precisely one of building community through pointing to its ideals—combatting non-evaluative stagnation.

Mocking academic freedom
Compromising for anything less than a statement of guaranteed freedom of the press is nothing but a compromise of the Davidson community and a mockery of academic freedom. The December 3 draft makes provision for a student communications advisory board (SCAB), invested by the Board of Trustees “with the responsibility for review and guaranteeing responsible editorial freedom and non-interference with the expression of ideas.” The establishment of SCAB is probably a judicious move. However, more important is a statement of the rights and responsibilities invested by the Board of Trustees to the editors of the student media. No matter how many boards, agencies, or advisory groups the publisher designates as its agents, there is no escaping entrusting editorial freedom to student editors. The December 3 draft lacks such a statement maintaining the responsibility and accountability of editors for theirpublications. Just as the document fails to assert the right, it fails to assert the responsibility.

Libel court

Our third major objection to the December 3 draft concerns the confusion of terminology, particularly in regard to libel. If the authors of this document are to deal realistically with libel, they must first consult a dictionary and a basic text on the subject. All drafts to date of the media section of Article XII refer to libel as if it were a defenseless publication rather than one requiring a defense. "Avoidance of libel" means avoidance of critical evaluation, libel being defined generally as published statements which identify a person to any reader and which tend to make the reader think worse of the person identified.

Of publisher delegating editorial responsibilities to student editors

The objection is not simply one of semantics. The authors must recognize that SCAB holds a more important function than an advisory one; it is identified as the court where charges are delivered against publications and where editors must defend them. In any supporting document which identifies the composition of the board, we must be aware that a lawyer with knowledge of libel may be needed to judiciate for the advisory board. The SCAB is rightly delegated the responsibility of removal of editors as an ultimate sanction, but only "for proper and stated cause" which is not stated in the document. The implication that cause consists of an editor allowing publication of indefensible libel or indecency, however, is not in our opinion sufficiently stringent.

In recognizing the unique relationship of the press to this community, i.e., the press holds a captive audience of students who have no choice but to pay for the newspaper through Student Activities Fees, we feel that the community should be allowed to remove an editor for suppressing freedom of expression.

Personal soap boxes

Student editors are not granted the right to use student publications as personal soap boxes. Editors should be accountable to charges that they, through refusing to publish letters to the editor or signed columns of opinion differing from the editors’ views, are not providing the forum for community expression intended by the Board of Trustees as publisher. If the purpose of a free press is to promulgate ideas in the academic community, an editor must be free from prior restraint to develop his editorial policy, and must likewise ensure that he protects the rights of others to express ideas. We feel that this further delineates the responsibility of the press and reduces the risk of grossly unrepresentative editorial staffs dominating media. This is not an attempt to eliminate risks, but one to ensure that the risks involved in guaranteeing responsible editorial freedom have the maximum benefit to the community.

In this, our final editorial of the 1975 Davidsonian editorship, we strongly urge the college to abandon its hesitance in stating its principles in regard to student media, unequivocally stating in Article XII of the College Constitution, "Davidson College guarantees freedom of the press and freedom of expression in SGA-chartered publications in its delegation as publisher of editorial responsibility to student editors."

FACULTY MEETINGS

