September 26, 1975

The Davidsonian

Americans eat callously as 20 percent of the world starves

C.R.O.P. support

By BILL BOND

As it slowly sinks in that this is my last year at this cubbyhole, I find myself nostalgically reflecting upon
the people and experiences I have been lucky enough to taste. Once cursed times that are still better, Jeff Allender’s
hat, the Wimpire. The other night I continued this mood while sitting at a table in the activities fair at
the Union watching this year’s freshmen with unabashed curiosity to see where their interests lay. The table I sat behind
represented, among other organizations, the Eu Society and C.R.O.P., the organization which attempts to feed the world’s hungry. Pleasantly surprising
was the fact that most who stopped at the table were more familiar with C.R.O.P. from the publicity of Davidson's
fast for the organization last spring as reported in the Update than with the Eu (or Phi) Society.

According to the last newsletter sent out by C.R.O.P.’s regional director, Terry Bonnette, the Davidson effort netted $915.85. While not
the largest amount raised for the organization in North Carolina last spring, it was the largest amount raised by a
fast. According to Campus Minister Rush Otey, the publicity for the fast raised community awareness enough that a love offering
for the world’s hungry totaled “thousands,” a substantial increase over past efforts at Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC). With this
amount added to the campus effort, our total was third in the state.

It is not only good but important that this work was done and that other such programs should be planned
and successfully carried out at Davidson. If we are to be called the “cream of Southern youth” or whatever First
Chamber's blurb for parents is this year, we must begin facing the stark reality that our world, foreign and domestic,
is in the process of actively allowing people to starve. That many of the world’s population simply do without the
food necessary to live normal lives is well-known but perhaps not really understood. Twenty percent of the world’s population of
3.2 billion is starving, dying from lack of food. Sixty percent of the world is malnourished, meaning that children are
growing up physically underdeveloped and mentally dull, leading to a greater number of poorly educated adults in the world 20
years hence.

Two years ago, the people in the underdeveloped nations were paying 80 percent of their incomes for food. Consider this
in light of last year's tripling of the price of food. Even in America, a recent Senate study showed that
in low-income areas of the U.S., one of every three cans of pet food is purchased for human consumption by
the elderly and poor who cannot afford other protein products. Still, Americans callously eat 112 pounds of meat per person
(opposed to 55 pounds in 1940), meat that is produced at 8 pounds of grain for every pound of meat
marketed by cattlemen. We, as a nation, use 3 million tons of fertilizer on lawns, golf courses, and cemeteries, an
amount that could produce 30 million tons of food in developing countries (10 million tons of cereal would be required
to add a mere 250 calories a day to the diet of 400 million people). We 250 million Americans eat
enough to feed 1.5 billion Chinese adequately, according to Jean Mayer of Harvard; yet, little concern is shown in this
country.

The U.S. ranks 14th among 16 development assistance countries (aid measured as a percentage of GNP). Less than one percent
of our national budget goes for development assistance and our Food for Peace package has dropped from 9 million tons
in 1962 to 3 million in 1974; however, the U.S. controls a greater percentage of the world’s grain than the
Arab countries do of the world’s oil supplies.

Davidson's response as a school and a community to this need should be deep concern channeled into action. For those
interested in political work in this area of need, contact and help Bread for the World, 602 East Ninth Street,
N.Y., N.Y. 10009. For the rest of us, ample opportunity to work exists on campus. Reb Mooty planned and carried
out an effective campus fast with the help of Otey and the many man-hours supplied by the Eu Society members
last spring. Contact these people if you wish to actively work to feed hungry people. Give the money you save
by doing without when future fasts are held. Participate in Share-It with Your Brother meals, if they can be organized.

Freshmen, any upperclassman will tell you how easy it is to be involved only with your academic and social life
here in this hole in the countryside. Time, however, is not suspended, and the need is increasing. Each student should
examine himself and herself as to what their moral obligation is to those whode without because they have to and
act accordingly. It is not so much a matter of time as of commitment. Davidson defeats Kuralt’s optimism.

By RICHARD BOYCE

I'm not exactly sure what I expected from Charles Kuralt. I'm not positive I expected anything. I’m not exactly sure
what I got from Charles Kuralt. I'm not positive I got anything. Perhaps, I should explain.

After chili, beer, and a few Walter Cronkite jokes, Charles tackled a somewhat more pertinent, though by no means less
shallow, subject area which we might label: “The Attitudes of Today's American,” subtitle: “Patriotism on the Upswing.” To heighten our
appreciation for ourselves, Charlie gave us a brief glimpse of UNC in the 50's. This is a rough paraphrase, “Students
then were extremely self-centered. Things beyond themselves and their future careers were of little, if any, concern. The average student
had no opinions on current trends, the only such trend of any moment to him being his trend toward success.”

“Oh, naughty, naughty,” sighed the audience.

“But,” interrupted Mr. Kuralt, lifting us out of the doldrums of 50's materialism, “Today is a new day!”

“Hallelujah!”

With the audience firmly in his grip, Charles smothered us in self-adulation. “Today's students care for nothing more than others.
We shovel walks for old men. We will spend 25 hours per day relieving the poor and rejected. We not
only have opinions, but opinions we are willing to fight and sacrifice for!”

“Hurrah!”

“America is still alive... You may go in peace.”

--An elderly gentleman is neatly trampled in the post-program stampede to the library...

Mr. Kuralt was somehow amiss. If not wrong in his analysis of America, he was at least mistaken in applying
that generality to a particular in Northern Mecklenburg Co. It is unusual that Kuralt used the 50’s as a contrast;
the argument has been quite more effective in the reverse. Self-centeredness has reached new heights of glory. The majority of
the doors in Belk are closed and will remain so. People, running off the future, have surrendered to a new
brand of materialism. The student body is 150 percent Pre-Med and 50 percent Eco. Fraternities and beer are booming. Bop
and beach are the only sound around. Newspaper subscriptions are plummeting. The freak has passed from a rare commodity to
the list of endangered species. “Rap Sessions,” corny as they sound, are non-existent. Communication is non-existent, unless seared it leads
to a spot. The “Revolution” is truly dead! The almighty GPA of success has reared its head and, behold, the
people have listened.

Such allegations may sound bitter. They may certainly suffer from exaggeration. But, the reason, I'm afraid, is obvious. This is
a trend which not only involves, but apparently molds, me. I am immediately involved.

I must admit college was a shock for me. It shattered many illusions. At first I pinned the apathy of
the student body toward current events on the concurrent demise of Vietnam and Richard Nixon. We had no one to
reform. Oil, CIA, brown lung, and Vepco make such an argument untenable. A group of friends wanted to organize a
leftist student party. The plans were squelched by a simple question, “If you had a choice of studying for tomorrow's
midterm, getting blasted, or organizing a rally, which would you choose?” So be it.

Once again, I realize this reeks of hyperbole. Relations established at Davidson may be some of the most challenging, and
even, rewarding ones I will experience. I have some close friends and see the possibility for extension. But, a loss
of realism through exaggeration is, I believe, legit, if the point is made. I have felt a loss at Davidson.
I feel I missed something that happened five, six or seven years ago. Perhaps this is romanticizing a past era
to my own needs, but a new year is starting and an old rut is deepening. The freshmen have already
pulled all-nighters.

I hope I'm not preaching. I hope I'm not entirely misunderstood. I'm afraid, true to form, I don't expect much
change. But, I, at least, would hope for a heightened awareness of the legitimacy of one’s motives and aspirations. Selfishness
is a way of life, but glossing it over with other names is, to me, cheap and unfair. Doctors save
a hell of a lot of lives. But, why or what for? I realize that present success is the only
ticket to future influence, but it’s easy to get caught up in an endless chain of required successes, being ultimately
unable to distinguish their goal. John Lennon has a song entitled, “It's Hard.” Its moral: “You've gotta live. You've gotta
love. You've gotta be somebody. You've gotta shove.” Let's hope the only part of this song applicable to Davidson's “way
of life” this year will be the title. I don’t want an easy life at Davidson. Hardship is necessary and
helpful, but only if directed toward the right purposes.
