September 19, 1975

ROSEGARDEN: - Robert Trawick
Frontis Johnson browses in his garden retreat.

Union views alternatives to TV screen
By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

Whether or not the Davidson College Student Union will be able to acquire a Videobeam Projection Color Television is still in doubt. “I think it would be wonderful to have,” said Union Director C. Shaw Smith. “The question is where the money for it will come from.”

The Projection TV, originally planned as a gift from the Class of 1975 to the College, has gone up in price since its acquisition was first proposed. The originally projected price, in the neighborhood of $3,000, was to have been provided in part by the Class of '75, which has so far raised $1470. $750 were to be taken from the Union budget and a $750 loan from the College. Now, with a price increase of $1,000 over the summer, there is question as to whether the machine can be bought at all.

Smith suggested several money-making alternatives. “Someone might give us a thousand dollars, which we don’t see on the horizon. We could charge for viewing, say $.25, $.50 or a dollar; or an organization, say the Student Government or ATO, could attempt a collection from students. A thousand students, a thousand dollars. Or we could take another $1,000 from next year’s Union budget, which would be difficult.”

Problems behind buying the Projection TV lie in the fact that the company which manufactures the machine was not informed of any specific intention of buying one. “I frankly thought the students had talked with the makers,” said Smith. “If they had ordered it when we could have had it at the old price we could have grabbed it.” Smith has tried several times to bargain with the company, aided by President of the College Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., with no success. Both Smith and President of the Union Richard Wassen are enthusiastic about the machine.

Thanks! Delivery to 10 days. for your patience during the “Book Rush.” Reorders are being phoned in depends on the publisher and the carrier. Should arrive in a week.

DENT STORE

Johnston accepts position despite obituary headlines
By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

In early August the Charlotte Observer paid its respects to Dr. Frontis W. Johnston by announcing his appointment to the position of Vice-President of Academic Affairs on its Obituary page. “I learned later that one lady here in Davidson has asked four people in town what was the cause of my death. Apparently the woman just glanced at my photograph on the Obituary page without reading the accompanying article explaining my appointment—not my death,” Johnston explained.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. visited Johnston at his home on August 3 to ask him if he would accept the position of academic dean. “My reaction to the President’s offer was very simply this: I wish this situation had never arisen. I finally accepted the offer for two reasons. One, I was forTwelve years in here (Johnston served as Dean of the Faculty from 1958-1970) and, two, at my age everyone knows that this is only an interim appointment,” Johnston remarked. Johnston will continue to teach at least one American history course each term of the current academic year. “I regret that my teaching duties will be slightly reduced. I don’t mean I’m going to be unhappy in this new position. Neither will I dislike what I can do in this office; I only regret missing out on some of those activities which would otherwise be available to me—like meeting the new students.”

Johnston has scheduled the first Educational Policy Committee (EPC) meeting of the current academic year for this afternoon. “I'm surely not going to launch any widespread college reforms, but I’m not going to be any stop-gap either. The EPC has some old business left from last Spring which needs to be reviewed. That will be our first order of business.”

Official college administrative posts are not foreign to Johnston. Besides serving as Kenan Professor of History and Dean of the Faculty, Johnston was Acting President of the college from July to September of 1968 and Dean of the Honors College. Describing Johnston in his new role, Spencer remarked: “His superb gifts as a teacher, his eloquence, his authority and good humor when presiding at meetings, his keen mind, his ability to work with people, make him a unique leader at Davidson. His contributions to the college over the years are immeasurable, and we are fortunate that he is now willing to undertake another highly important service for the college.”

Johnston graduated with an A.B. from Davidson College in 1930 and received his Ph.D. in History from Yale University in 1938. During 1974-75 Johnston was moderator of the Presbyterian, U.S. Synod of North Carolina. He has also been a lecturer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) National Academy for every session since 1949.

NORTH CAROLINA RESIDENTS

If you have not completed the official application for a North Carolina Legislative Tuition Grant and received up to $200 credit for it on your tuition, please stop by Chambers 106 and complete an application immediately.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030