October 3, 1975

The Davidsonian

“Miss Alice Chase,” a wood-engraving by artist Henry Wolf (American 1852-1916), will be at Davidson on Oct. 8 with other Old Masters prints for a special one-day showing by Lakeside Studio.

Coming Distractions

Friday, October 3, 1975:

All Week: Paintings and Related Works, Hodson Hall
Gordon Mahy

8 & 10:30 p.m.: Pop Film: “Harry and Tonto,” Love Auditorium

8 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Morrison Room

10 p.m.: Coffeehouse: Hull and Roche, 900 Room

Saturday, October 4, 1975:

8 a.m.: Dental Aptitude Test, Banquet Hall

10 a.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Conference Room

2 p.m.: Football: Guilford College vs. Davidson

10 p.m.: Coffeehouse: Hull and Roche, 900 Room

Sunday, October 5, 1975:

3 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Morrison Room

7 p.m.: Catholic Mass, Lingle Chapel

Monday, October 6, 1975:

8 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Morrison Room

Tuesday, October 7, 1975:

Questions & Answers with Dr. Spencer, Morrison Room

4 p.m.: Soccer: Campbell vs. DCPC

5 p.m.: Worship Service

7 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Morrison Room

8 p.m.: Transcendental Meditation, Morrison Room

10 p.m.: Concert: Howard Hanger

Wednesday, October 8, 1975:

3 p.m.: Demonstration: Howard Hanger Trio, 900 Room

4 p.m.: Films: “Bernstein On Beethoven: Ode to Joy and Family of Man,” Honors College

8 & 10 p.m.: Jazz: Howard Hanger Trio, 900 Room

Thursday, October 9, 1975:

10 a.m.: Coffee and Cokes, Banquet Hall

All day: Billiards Expert: Paul Gurney, Morrison Room

8 & 10 p.m.: Film: “Big Squeeze (Food and Population),” Hodson Hall

Discussion Group on Violence, Conference Room

Pablo Releases Art Tatum

By ERNEST GLENN
Associate Editor

The Art Tatum archives have finally been expanded to a number of volumes which is proportionate to the greatness of the jazz artist. For too long the selection has been slim and the recordings poor.

But Pablo Records has released a set called The Tatum Group Masterpieces, consisting of several records exhibiting the talent of Tatum on the piano and featuring many other jazz greats.

Two of the records feature alto saxophonist Benny Carter in quartet with Tatum. These records contain traditional blues like “Blues in C” and numbers that were becoming classics like “S’Wonderful” and “A Foggy Day” by George and Ira Gershwin.

Ben Webster joins Tatum on one of the other albums. He maintains a smooth sound on the tenor sax as Tatum lets loose on some of his amazing improvisations. Outstanding cuts on this record include Cole Porter’s “Night and Day” and William Rogers’ “Have You Met Miss Jones?”

One of the most interesting in this masterpiece collection is the record which teams Buddy DeFranco with Tatum. DeFranco rose to greatness on the clarinet when the heyday of that instrument had just passed.

The big bands were fading out to be replaced in popularity by bebop. But DeFranco reigned for ten years as the premier clarinetist. He and Tatum play more Gershwin and other old favorites like “This Can’t Be Love” and “Makin’ Whoopee.”

Another album matches Tatum with the superb trumpet of Roy Eldridge. Eldridge played with many groups including the Duke Ellington orchestra. He and Tatum play Ellington’s “In a Sentimental Mood” as well as more Cole Porter and “You Took Advantage of Me,” a song Tatum masterfully plays on the solo album put out by Capitol.

Finally, there are the trio albums - Tatum on piano backed by drums and bass. Red Callender plays bass and Jo Jones the drums as Tatum astonishes with his skill that begins to make things sound simple they are executed so smoothly.

Any of these new albums is worthy of being added to a jazz collection. The sound is actual stereo, and is very clear, much more so than the sound on some of the other Tatum recordings. The combos are small enough to feature each musician and the individual tone of his instrument.

The mood conveyed on all of these albums is one of confident relaxation, perhaps a smoke-filled studio and shirtsleeves. All the songs were recorded in the early fifties.

With the release of this library of Tatum’s music, perhaps he will grow in popularity and more people will come to appreciate him as one of the greatest pianists in jazz.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary