January 30, 1975 The Davidsonian

Three Davidson Notes

Holland Wins Prize For Creative Fiction

Professor of English Gill Holland recently won the Yukio Mishima Memorial Award for Short Fiction. The award is presented by St. Andrew’s Review, a literary journal.

GILL HOLLAND

The award was for “Fru Lang-Nilsen’s Painting.”

“I was delighted to receive the award,” said Holland. “At first I thought it was a trick that Professor Winkler was playing on me since the award was on my birthday. I realized it couldn’t be when the check slipped out of the envelope,” Holland said.

The judge was Reynolds Price, novelist in residence at Duke University. Both Holland and Professor J. S. Winkler have poetry in the last issue of The Cold Mountain Review, another literary journal.

Governance Documents

Copies of the minutes of the Governance Committee meetings and the documents under deliberation are open to the college community, according to Assistant to the President Jerry C. Godbehere. The documents are in the reserve room of the E.H. Little Library, filed under “Governance Documents.”

The Miscellany

The Miscellany is now accepting submissions in poetry, fiction, and non-fiction prose. “We would especially like Davidson students to submit their work,” said Miscellany Co-editor Ernest Glenn. “We are opening the areas of photography and art to students and faculty. Small prints, drawings, and photographs can be submitted to our regular box,” said Glenn.

Entries should be addressed to either Ernest Glenn or Co-editor Wayne Gulledge, P.O. Box 696, Davidson, N.C. 28036.

YM/YWCA Football

Davidson students join Davidson Elementary gridders for a game of touch football.

Varied YMCA Plans Depend

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD Staff Writer

The Davidson YM/YWCA coordinates programs ranging from afternoon recreation activities for elementary school children to a weekly lunch for senior citizens. Focal points for YM/YWCA activity are the Depot, Ada Jenkins School, and the college campus. The varied programs the YM/YWCA offers depend largely on the interest and creativity of Davidson students, according to YM/YWCA President Sue Cunningham.

Present activities include a variety of programs at Ada Jenkins School, scouting programs, STEP ‘tutoring’, and a Thursday lunch-discussion hour for Davidson students, faculty, and administrators. Cunningham said that plans are being made for a coffee house for junior high school youth, an information-emergency center in Grey Union, and Town Day which is scheduled for early May.

“More of a variety of people are working with the Y now, and we'd like to reach even more,” she explained. “Activities centered in Ada Jenkins School include the afternoon recreation program, the Schoolhouse of the Arts, and plans for a street academy that will be available for students.”

Senate Resolution

By MARK GERGEN Staff Writer

The Senate passed a resolution unanimously calling for night exams at the Tuesday meeting. Senator Bo Baskin presented a report discussing changes and problems with the food service on campus. The night exam resolution was proposed by Senator Martin Eakes as a compromise to the resolution passed last year, which the Educational Policy Committee tabled.

A major argument cited by the faculty in not approving this measure last year was the inability of professors to be available should a student taking an exam need to consult with the professor. The new resolution calls for night exams on the second and third days of the exam period. “This will give the professors four exam periods to discover any faults in their exam necessitating their presence,” said Eakes. Eakes added that Mrs. Kimmel, who runs the exams, favors a night exam trial. In an all-campus SGA poll last year, 92 percent of the student body also said that they would like to have the option to take an exam at night.Resolution was unanimous. Baskin presented a report covering changes in the food service and recommending voluntary participation. “There is an intensification of problems due to a lack of competition. Even if there was competition in town, the compulsory payment system would make it economically unfeasible for a student to eat anywhere but Slater,” Baskin said. Baskin explained that the system of payment in advance creates a negative incentive as it pays Slater to provide poor service. “No one is the villain in this. Ron Scott is trying to provide the best service possible. We’re all to blame: the college, Slater, and the students.” Baskin pointed out that Scott’s profit margin for this year is only 0.8 percent. For this reason, there is a certain amount of justification in the proposal to increase cost and limit the period of use for tickets from seven to seven, according to Baskin. The problem with this is that presently many students cannot use all their tickets; decreasing the period of use will make them worth even less than their presently depressed price, Baskin added. “The current plan should be maintained but the compulsory payment plan should be jettisoned,” he concluded.

Senator Rick Roylance gave a report on the new College Union stating they are now at the stage where they are decorating the interior. Roylance also added, “All the suggestions made by the administrators are considered positive improvements.” In other action, Tom Jonas was appointed to fill the open off-campus chair. Karl Goodhouse was placed on the Counseling and Guidance Committee, and Carol Watkins and Bill Reid were placed on the Student Life Committee. Absent from the meeting were John Guthrie and Joe Logan.

Interested Student Support who have been suspended from North Mecklenburg High School. The YM/YWCA needs volunteers to help plan and supervise afternoon recreation from 2:00 to 4:30 once a week. Sophomores Bob Earnest and John Swanson are directing the afternoon recreation program, and students who would like to help should get in touch with them, Cunningham advised. The Schoolhouse of the Arts teaches music, arts, and crafts to a wide age group, and Director Nancy Hazel has asked the YM/YWCA to provide students that will help teachers in these classes. Also, Cunningham emphasized the need for students to do maintenance work at Ada Jenkins. Recently, the community center at Ada Jenkins was approved as a street academy for students who have been suspended from North Mecklenburg High School. When the street academy is opened, the facility will be used constantly, and Cunningham anticipates that tutors will be needed. She also hopes that more students will become involved with the program for senior citizens. “I foresee qualified students going over and taking blood pressure and just talking with these people,” Cunningham explained. The YM/YWCA is coordinating plans for Town Day with the bicentennial celebration of Mecklenburg County. The celebration will commemorate the 200th anniversary of the county’s charter. About 25 to 30 people have been showing up at the Thursday lunch-discussion hour (1:00) at the Depot. “It’s sort of like brainstorming,” explained Cunningham. “We talk about things and think about new ideas.”

Sophomores John Allen Tucker and Mark Yow are learning the ropes of the STEP program and will co-direct it after Senior Kenneth Ehler leaves this year. “There’s not much emphasis on teaching kids stuff unless they have a problem and want help,” Tucker commented. “What I’ve done so far this year is mess around with them,” he added. Once a week Tucker and about 60 other STEP volunteers play basketball, swim, and do (See YMCA, page 12).