Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

the davidsonian December 19, 1975

Students respond liver epistles brew controversy Jackson offers friendly disagreement

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

To the Editor:

Because I have no reason to believe that anything but a healthy mutual respect exists between us, and because I
believe you too understand that the exchange of conflicting ideas and opinions is not to be taken as implicative of
personal enmity, but rather that such exchange leads to more precise thinking, and even to truth, if one is able
to believe that there is such a thing: because of these two considerations I am venturing

Devils, writing, and baseball

To the Editor:

“An apology for the Devil: It must be remembered that we have only heard one side of the case. God
has written all the books.”

My initial reaction to Mr. Oliver’s letter of Dec. 12 was one of amazement. The composition, disregarding the content for
a moment if possible, stands as an unimpressive reflection on a gentleman who obviously has a poor control of the
English language and a painfully apparent lack of style. The repetitious usage of the word “typical,” a distracting profusion of
tiresome clichés, i.e. “swept under the rug,” “ego trip,” “that kind of nonsense,” “heart breakers,” “Aren’t as cool,” inappropriate modifiers
used to denote quantity i.e. “pretty disgusting,” and collective terms which fail to identify the subject in question i.e. “pitiful
bunch” (of what, Mr. Oliver, shoes? Baseball bats?) are characteristic of slovenly communication skills which do not elucidate the issue
but merely detract from it. Perhaps a therapeutic course in the basic writing skills under the direction of Dr. Frank
Bliss could prove useful for Mr. Oliver and hopefully remedy his problems with self-expression.

After deciphering the content of Mr. Oliver’s garbled note, I was impressed by Mr. Oliver’s superciliousness. A 19th-century author has
a most apt response for this situation: “The advantage of doing one’s praising for oneself is that one can lay
it on so thick and exactly in the right places.” (Samuel Butler)

As a member of the Class of '77, I have been provided with ample opportunity to observe Mr. Oliver’s preoccupation
with the alleged detriments of coeducation. I regard this hobby, to use a kind term, as peculiar. Mr. Oliver considered,
applied to, was accepted at, and chose to attend Davidson College with the knowledge that it was coeducational. (I doubt
the Admissions Committee used Machiavellian tactics to obscure this fact.) Davidson College professes to be a liberated institution and the
women of D.C. have taken the opportunities which the college has provided in every discipline and activity. We have done
as well or excelled in comparison to our male counterparts and we do not feel the need to remind the
student body of this fact in every other issue of The Davidsonian. Mr. Oliver, you seem to belong to Mr.
Noel Coward’s school of thought, “he who fights and runs away will live to fight another day.” To you Mr.
Oliver--put up or shut up.

Nancy Petrowski '77 Davidson College

Short and sour

To the Editor:

It would seem from Mr. Oliver’s latest diatribe concerning coeducation at Davidson that Mr. Oliver is the one on an
“ego trip.” Please Hilton, roll over and play dead before we get sick.

Phil Caine Davidson College, ’78

An irrefutable proof(?)

To the Editor:

Hilton Oliver is a fraud. He constantly criticizes the women students at Davidson and advocates that the college return to
its all-male status. But it is comforting to know that we no longer need to pay any attention to this
constant babbling, which has found notoriety in this letter column and on various walls throughout the campus. Mr. Oliver, in
responding to the letter from the debate team (Nov. 28), declined to accept the offer for a public debate because
he felt the letter merited no response. His rationale was that the letter was written by a coed who was
afraid to sign her name. He is in error. Mark Gergen and I will not deny the charge of being
morons, letting it stand on its own merits. As for being women afraid to sign our names, that is absurd
on two counts. First, it is an insult to the female sex to group us in that category, although we
might be appealing to Mr. Oliver in some strange way. Second, neither of us are afraid to sign our names,
especially when we offer him a forum from which to express his original opinions. The Davidson community should be informed
that Mr. Oliver was fully aware of the authorship of that letter, prior to the writing of hisResponse. That fact,
combined with his refusal by default to debate the issue of co-education at Davidson with me, serves as clear, undisputable,
and irrefutable proof that Hilton Oliver is indeed a fraud who advocates absurd positions merely to attract attention. May his
wandering pen find peace in the lonely halls of Chambers.

Gordon Widenhouse
Debate Team Captain
Davidson College, ’76

To disagree with what you wrote in your last letter to the editor. Far from believing the girls in Davidson
to be “a true detriment to the campus,” I am quite grateful that they are here; for (if I may
risk the sentimental) I think that having girls on campus adds a touch of home to the place. Furthermore, whether
I am grateful for their presence or not, there is still the fact that they have as good reason to
be here as I. Learning, you remember, is not the sort of thing that is restricted by nature to men
alone, as childbearing is restricted to women. Probably, Davidson girls have come here for much the same reason that you
and I have—because they consider Davidson to provide a good atmosphere for studying.

At this point, no doubt, you will respond, “Yes, but if the girls came here to study, then why on
earth do they spend all their time chattering in the library, or watching the World Series on TV?” To this
I would reply first, “What were you doing wasting time over a baseball game anyway?” and second, “Have you never
noticed that sometimes even boys too chatter in the library, often among themselves, with not a girl to be seen?”

But all this is not really to the point of what I intended to say. Nor are your comments about
the unreasonableness of the girls' demands to the college, nor is that ridiculous notion of yours that most girls here
care only about seeing boys and being seen by them. As to that last, though, certainly that fault is as
common among men as it is among women. A handsome boy is just as likely to flaunt his beauty as
a pretty girl is to flaunt hers. Let’s you and me just be glad that we weren’t born graced with
any rare external beauty that we might be tempted to employ toward our own low intents.

But all this is to the side. What I really mean to say is what I have heard simple people
say before, as they gave thought to what was to cold, intellectual climes of colleges and universities: that if in
all our learning we never learn how to get along with one another, then all our learning adds up to
nothing. That’s the truth, you know.

So what if the attitudes of the girls here are, as you say, presumptuous (not that they are, of course)?
The attitude expressed in your last letter is vindictive, and that is worse. And if in saying that “Most of
the coeds here are on an ego trip anyway,” you mean to imply that somehow you have had the excellent
fortune to have been exempt from that deepest of all human faults, i.e. selfishness, then I suggest that you look
again at yourself. You might at least be as critical of yourself as of others.

In closing, I hope that this letter will be the occasion of no ill-feeling between us. And Hilton, I wouldn’t
dream of trying to persuade you to modify your opinions merely in order to please the populace; but at least
you could soften your bludgeon with a little charity and some common sense. And as long as you do that,
I will always be:

Don Jackson, '77
Davidson College

If you must react as you have, Hilton, you shouldn’t use The Davidsonian to advertise your emotional weakness. Your letters
are entertaining and amusing but enough is enough. If you have to view your environment through this frosted glass, at
least you could confine your opinions to the limits of your academic fantasyland.

Carlton Cooke
Davidson College, '77

LETTERS. The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed.
We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday
night will ordinarily be printed that week.
