Ten jaw. Tren aetie: Wye Teeome5 Ree sews red » debs --Ben Simms ROMA; Jay Coward fearlessly Wilmington wimp. plunges
into the dislodging of a hall and stopping a side the possible UNC-AWE advantage before the Cat cause could be
questioned, The Davidsonian May 2, 1975

Ruggers crush UNC-W, 36-0 to culminate growing season
By BILL KELLY
Staff Writer

Good running and nearly flawless scrum play gained Davidson's Rugby team its best victory of the season, 36-0, over UNC-Wilmington.
The hard-hitting scrum kept the ball away from the UNC backs in the rucks, and big Sheldon Parker dominated the
line outs. The scrum consisted of props Jeff Morrow and Jud Cuttino, second row Carlton Cooke and Mark Armstrong, hooker
Jay Coward, and was backed up by Sheldon Parker at back. They displayed excellent coordination, repeatedly running over the UNC
scrum. Tom McKenzie played his usual bloodthirsty defense, stopping at nothing, rules included, in an all-out effort to crush bones,
tear flesh, and maim the opposing ball carrier.

The scoring began with Jay Coward picking up a loose ball and diving over the try line for a score.
Bob Schermer kicked the conversion.

Cat trackers set new records, Connors wins S.C. 440 title
By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team had one of its most impressive performances of the past few years last weekend in the
conference meet at William and Mary. The Wildcats broke five school records in the two days of competition and more
than tripled their point total of a year ago. William and Mary won the title for the tenth straight year,
with East Carolina, Furman, and Appalachian following. The next four teams were bunched together, as Richmond scored 35, VMI and
Citadel 32, and Davidson 27½.

Senior captain Mark Connors became Davidson’s first Southern Conference champion since 1971, winning the 440 in a school record 48.6.
Woody Van Meter broke his own record in the pole vault for the third time this year, going 14’6” to
tie for third place. Bob Lautensack also bettered his old mark in the steeplechase, taking fifth with a time of
9:55.7. Senior Greg Love closed out his career with a fourth place finish in the high hurdles at 15.1 seconds.
Jeff Diller heaved the hammer 123’11” to grab another fourth for Davidson. His throw broke his old school record by
1”. Freshman Jarry Taylor took sixth in that event.

Consistent performers John Stanfield and Allen Schaberg rounded out the scoring for Davidson. Stanfield went 6’2” to tie for fifth
in the high jump, while Schaberg took sixth in the discus with a throw of 135’10”. Sophomore Coty Pickney bettered
Coach Sterling Martin’s 3-mile record by 10 seconds, clocking 14:56.8 en route to a 32:06 in the 6-mile. He was
just off the record he set earlier this year in the Davidson Relays. A total of 9 school records in
the 20 track and field events were tied or broken this season.

The 10 seniors who graduate from this year’s squad accounted for almost half of the team points scored during the
season. Leading scorer Connors will be replaced in the sprints next year by Steve Justus, Dave Moore, James Douglas, and
Harry Albert. Vacancies in the high hurdles left by seniors Love...and Bob Trumbo will be filled by Gary Danciger and
Dave Keller, while steeplechaser Lautensack and Buck Farrow will leave the water jump to Bill Cole. John Lewis and Bob
Morrison will return in the pole vault, taking up the slack left by Van Meter’s absence. Distance runners Ricky Bell
and Lube Deal will be replaced by Pinckney, and freshmen Dick Boehner, Bill McClemment, Jay Silver, and Zack Murrell. Tom
Soos will leave his javelin to Stanfield, Kier Cutler, and Mike Pappas, while the loss of Reggie Harding leaves a
void in the long and triple jumps. The strength of next year’s team should lie in the weight events and
high jump. Juniors Diller and Schaberg along with freshman Taylor return in the shot, discus, and hammer. The high jump
trio of Stanfield, Steve Trusgnich, and Eppa Rixey will also be back next year.

Schermer kicked well all afternoon, hitting three extra point attempts and two field goals. The backs, Peter Alford, Vic McMillan,
Big Al Williams, Chris Young, Peyton Prospere, Chip Crawford, and Bob Schermer complemented the five scrum plays with precision passing
and quick moves which left Wilmington in confusion for most of the match. Prospere scored on a good run a
few minutes later. Coward’s skillful kicking at the fullback position kept the ball out of Davidson territory most of the
time and ruthless hitting by the scrum turned back the few goal line challenges missed by the scrum. Davidson hammered
at Wilmington’s goal constantly. McMillan scored but the play was annulled due to a penalty. Cooke picked up a loose
ball a few yards out but was snowed under as he dove for the goal line. Marty Williamson also displayed
good inside-running. A breakaway by the backs enabled Cuttino to score in the second half off of a pass from
McMillan. Tom McKenzie later grappled over for a score in a one-man effort from about 20 yards out. Jeff Morrow’s
open field power running moved the ball well for Davidson. Morrow usually carries his opponents with him if he can’t
run over them. Al Williams also exemplified the freight train offense with his ability to run over or spin off
of defenders. The Davidson team finally approached their potential: mental mistakes were few and coordination was good.

Several players are potential all-conference choices including Rodgman, Pomaroy, and Weicker. According to Coach Wade, “Weicker may have a good
shot at All-American.” Davidson hopes for revenge against Lenoir-Rhyne when they meet here for the last regular season game on
May 1.
