Vol. LXIV, No. Twenty-five Published Weekly By Davidson College Students Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036, The Davidsonian | April 24, 1975

Campus crime drops 60 percent
Precinct Two thwarts criminal activity

BY SABRA FAIRES

Since the establishment of Precinct #2 on the Davidson campus in January 1974, the crime rate at Davidson College has dropped significantly. “For the calendar year 1973, there were 74 reported larcenies and 5 assaults compared to 27 larcenies and 2 assaults in 1974—a better than 60% decrease,” stated Grover C. Meetze Jr., Director of The Physical Plant. Meetze’s figures were taken from a report given to him by Lt. Hughes, officer in charge of the campus precinct. “These figures do not reveal the entire story,” added Hughes, “for in 1973 there were more thefts involving over $100 worth of goods than this past year.”

Precinct #2

Precinct #2 is part of the campus security system Davidson initiated several years ago. This system basically involves the use of town police as campus police and the operation of the campus precinct. It was designed in cooperation with the SGA and was approved by the Senate’s unanimous vote.

“Our security system is designed to overcome the problem of town police versus campus police that hampered us in the past and is seen on other campuses,” said Meetze. “With this arrangement, there are no jurisdictional problems, and the Davidson police force is always available for support if we need it.

“The idea of the campus cop is psychologically old-fashioned,” continued Meetze. “Social patterns have undergone a tremendous change in recent years; students at Davidson today are more like citizens of the community. If they need the police, all they have to do is call.”

Hughes pointed out that the same rules apply to student rooms and dorms as citizens’ homes. “We cannot go into the dorms unless asked. Many students have the idea that we work to discover drug violations, but,” he emphasized, “this is not true. Our only purpose here is to protect the students.”

Open campus with controls

“This is an open campus, but some control is necessary,” Hughes continued. “We have the option of asking people what they are doing here, and we can ask them to leave if they don’t belong here.”

A major advantage of the new system is the instant attention students can command 24 hours a day by dialing 5131. No time is wasted searching for the campus policeman. Meetze sees other advantages in the positive exposure to police the students receive, the uniting of campus and community, and the flexibility of the system. “Further restrictions should be unnecessary because of the system’s flexibility,” he commented.

Davidson College has a contract with the town of Davidson that enlists the cooperation of the Davidson police.

$40,000 annually

“The College pays the town of Davidson approximately $40,000 a year for their services. This includes payment of the officers, upkeep of the campus precinct, and money spent on patrol cars, uniforms, equipment, and further education of the officers, among other things,” said Meetze.

Five Davidson police officers work on campus under the direction of Lt. Hughes. “There are four full-time men on the force, including myself,” stated Hughes, “as well as two part-time. All of these men are licensed and certified by the state of N.C. They have at least the 165 hours training required for certification plus 40 hours advanced training.

“From 3 a.m. to 6 p.m. there is an officer on campus and another readily available, though not necessarily on campus. From 6 p.m. until 3 a.m. there are two officers on duty, either walking around campus or patrolling the campus in a car.”

Handsticks at night

The equipment these officers wear is not specified by Davidson College. Hughes stated, “Most officers wear only a gun and handcuffs in the day, as I do, and add a handstick at night.”

In addition to the six officers from the town force, the College has its own campus cop, “Cop Sherrill.” He is directly on the College’s payroll and, according to Meetze, serves “an indispensable security role.” His main duty is coordinating security with campus activities, but he also helps patrol the campus.

Another innovation of the new campus security system is the emergency phones.on each floor of Watts dorm. “Those phones connect directly to the station and have been used three times for actual events, one of which resulted in apprehension. It only takes a matter of minutes for an officer to reach the dorm when a call is received,” said Hughes.

Abuse of phones
“The phones are an effective security measure and should not be treated lightly,” he continued. “We have had a problem with abuse of the phones. Dean Will Terry has been sent to the dorm several times to investigate this.”

Included in Hughes’ responsibilities is issuing I.D.’s to students, and vehicle and bicycle registration. Next year Hughes plans to issue I.D.’s to the families of faculty members as well as students. Giving parking tickets is the responsibility of the Physical Plant Office, but this aspect of security is handled by students.

A recent security measure not initiated by Meetze is the installation of the card-lock doors on Watts dorm and the screens on the first floor windows of the dorm. “Security made no recommendations concerning the card-lock doors. We received a request from the Dean’s office to install the doors and the name of the company that Duke purchased their card-lock doors from,” stated Meetze. “The locks and doors for Watts cost approximately $900,” he continued.

The decision to install the doors was made at a meeting of Dean of Students Will H. Terry, Assistant to the Dean Diane Stone, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Meetze, Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, and Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicolls in the summer of 1974. “This decision was a joint one,” stated Stone. “Security has been a natural consideration since women first came. It was thought for a while that a free system might work, but because of the (See SECURITY, page 3) Grover C. Meetze, and Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Robert J. Stephenson.

“If an employee ever does have to see Mr. Meetze, he has the assurance that I won’t tell his supervisor that he called,” continued the administrator. “This type of thing doesn’t happen too often, but it does happen.”

Unskilled college workers fear conferences with administration
By ANDREW LAMAS Executive Editor

“I might as well say it: you know, the help around here is just afraid to go see Mr. Meetze or Stephenson when we have got problems or troubles,” said one black hourly-paid employee of Davidson College. Several other members of the custodial staff and grounds crew complain that they are discouraged by their supervisors from speaking with Director of the Physical Plant Stephenson.

“I make sure that my supervisor doesn’t find out,” remarked one employee. “But usually, I just don’t go see them (Meetze and Stephenson). If it’s a really pressing problem, though, I might give them (Meetze and Stephenson) a phone call at their home after work. Just so the supervisor doesn’t find out, we will talk,” continued that employee.

This employee’s statement was verified by an administrative official who preferred to remain anonymous. “I know by personal experience that employees are intimidated sometimes for one reason or another by one or two of the supervisors,” said the administrative official. “They (the hourly-paid employees) have called me at home at night about matters as uncontroversial as explaining a certain benefit or asking why a paycheck failed to reach them. When an employee like this calls me at night, he always makes me give him my assurance that I won’t tell his supervisor that he called,” continued the administrator. “This type of thing doesn’t happen too often, but it does happen.

“It makes you wonder how many other unresolved matters that the employees need help or guidance on go unattended because the employees won’t come to me and talk,” said the administrator.

According to another administrator, “People don’t mind complaining. The employees come in and complain to us and to the supervisors. I believe the morale among the workers themselves and between them and their supervisors is very high. I attribute this to the fact that when there’s a job to be done, like the work done this past weekend to get ready for the alumni, we all pitch in and help.”

Meetze addressed himself to the various comments that appeared in the April 17 issue of The Davidsonian article, “College pays workers poverty wages.” “To say that we don’t have a job training program here is (See WORKERS, page 3)