The Davidsonian
May 9, 1975

Canterbury — Laura Moses guilty of holding the whip
Racial overtones

By STEVE CANTERBURY

The Editor—hair and eyes both uncombed, a Bloody Mary on his breath—invites me to spout off about the “Evolution of Davidson.” And I think to myself, ‘Mark! Mark! Any Humanities student knows that “evolution of Davidson” is a Darwinism, that a place like Davidson (being essentially unbiological) cannot possibly experience evolution; that Davidson College cannot even approach modified evolution, bouncing along some key tightrope from the peak of Ur-education to the peak of the Uber universitat.” So I reply to Deaton, shyly, “Sure.” But I know that a third-term senior is the least knowledgeable person on the subject of Davidson. He’s been essentially out of the place for a year thinking about things that never quite came up the previous three years—like the rest of his life. Thus nothing I say can carry too much seriousness; it has the weight of Will Terry’s hairs.

To start—after such exercise of vital wit—the meat of my column—being a student only a month from...

linger as time heals wounds, changes little

By REGGIE HARDING

There are hundreds of colleges and universities in the United States and thousands of colleges. It has become the in thing to go on to some sort of post-secondary school education. Different people look for different experiences once they leave high school, and these aspirations can usually be accommodated somewhere if one looks hard enough. For me, all I wanted was to attend a small college with good academics. Originally I had wanted to go into engineering, but decided not to in favor of a liberal arts education with law school or business school as a rather fuzzy goal.

Entering college was no problem for me. I had done well in high school, placed well on standardized tests, and had done well in extracurricular activities. Also, being a minority student made me a hot item, so I could have gone anywhere. My first choices were Washington University in St. Louis and Johns Hopkins, but after they turned out to be too expensive I began to look at Davidson, a small school with good academics, and less expensive than my other choices. I approached the situation a little bit differently than most. I felt that I could handle any situation in which I was placed, so I did not do a hell of a lot of checking up on Davidson—in fact, I did not even visit. I knew how many blacks were here, but I thought that if they were true to the commitment alluded to in their letters, the situation would improve.

My first year at Davidson was a rude awakening to my ability to cope. I had been in a minority situation all of my life, so that in itself was no problem. In a recent job interview, the interviewer remarked that I caused more problems for the people around me than I felt myself. I did have some problems though. After my glide through high school, the competition literally left me behind academically. I had almost gone to the Air Force Academy, so the lack of women should have been no shock to me, but I somehow think that I would have had as much contact with women there as I had at Davidson that first year. As I said before, being outnumbered 1000 to 14 presented no real problems for me, but I was fascinated by how my presence affected others, namely the Davidson Police Department. My I.D. became a passport to enter a foreign country. “Yes sir, why am I here?” — “I go to school here, sir, my friends will vouch for me!” “You still want to see my I.D., yes sir!” Instances such as this happened more than once, but we were told that as soon as we began to be recognized things would be okay. Time can heal a lot of wounds, but time does not necessarily change things. On my very first day back on campus my sophomore year I was given a police escort; later that year I was told to leave the premises; and in the first term of this year I was followed up to my room by two policemen one night. Black step tutor kids have had a history of being stopped while white town kids have been relatively free to roam. A committee was set up then to study the problem, but essentially nothing was done.

One must wonder about Davidson College and its commitment when extravaganzas like the Roasting of Chalmers Davidson are held. I do not object to honoring Dr. Davidson himself, for he has done a great deal in his long tenure at Davidson; it is the atmosphere in which it was done. There were some very out-of-taste comments made which had racial overtones. Sure, we all come from different backgrounds, but there is a certain place for certain things. Everyone got uptight about the streakers and language in the Quips and Cranks, but what was the meaning behind the “Whafo you plez?” Quite a bit more understanding and communication is needed among students as well as administrators, but understanding will not solve the housing problem in Davidson; positive action is needed, not only in this area, but other issues on campus as well. Everyone laments about student apathy, but I remember how unapathetic everyone was when the issue was co-education my freshman year. Are the long-range goals of the college any less important?

What is important about Davidson? I have formed some rather gratifying personal relationships with students as well as others in the Davidson community. I imagine that Davidson is unique in presenting an environment where a little more intimacy can develop. The opportunity is also here at Davidson to follow through with some things which are out of the norm. For example, the best...The year that I have ever had was spent in Africa last year, and I am very grateful for Davidson giving me the opportunity to do this. An exchange program has been set up with some black universities, primarily with the black student in mind, but any student can take advantage of this opportunity. I do not think that many students realize the wealth of opportunities here outside of the classroom. The best play on Broadway last year was brought to Davidson, yet our 1200-seat auditorium was not filled. How often do you hear of schools of this size presenting quality entertainment such as this or Pulitzer Prize-winning poets and other notables such as Sam Ervin and Leon Jaworski? My stay at Davidson and the experiences I have had have been a big part of me in a very formative period of my life. It can be said that reflection is easy, but it is not so easy to reflect and move toward the future in a positive direction. This is the challenge of Davidson today...

Students face major adjustments, fewer major changes lie ahead. Graduation is much like being a man dying of thirst who reached a poisoned pool and drinks in agonized, bitter glee. It is especially such a feeling for one like myself, who has been very interested and involved in many various aspects of campus life. Davidson has changed much in four years; if we go back another four years, we find that the school has actually metamorphosed. But now the time for change is over. The students of the next eight years are faced instead with adjustment. Necessarily quickly Davidson has left its all-male, all-white, all-American, all-Presbyterian, all-sober, all-virginal state. This is not to say that the place has become a sort of souring inferno. Yet it has become in its quiet, ever-dignified manner a sort of madhouse of morality and mental confusion. Canterbury talking about morality? I don’t use that term in the Cotton Mather, George Wallace sense. Instead, I am stressing the value of a new lifestyle Davidson now offers its students. No longer are the students herded to chapel, drilled in ROTC, or given similar herdings of women sent to them like beef to be slaughtered. No longer is white capitalism, male domination, and Presbyterianism accepted as the norm. Now, out of necessity, students must come up with their own conclusions about their own lifestyles. Rules won’t stop liquor or, for that matter, marijuana. Distance won’t stop heterosexuality. Omnipresence won’t stop deviation from John Calvin and Robert E. Lee. We’ve been given a simple freedom—how to live. Yet daily I see my peers forget life, wandering in an academic maze, limping in their parents’ footsteps afraid of the dark wood that surrounds the path. Blindly accepting the faith of the parents in a rather frivolous show of Christianity, clearly accepting the capitalistic oppression of the papa’s business methods while the third world screams is not a way to the self. While people play guitars for Jesus and chart the cash they’ll make by 1980 (often in the same sitting!), a janitor outside silently scrubbing the rich mess makes his $2.50 per hour, and a teenager in Appalachia steals false eyelashes to make herself more beautiful. But Davidsonian Hansel, but Gretel you’ve dropped crumbs of bread and the birds will leave you helplessly lost. You must learn to find your own way. You must realize the dirt you trod upon to realize who you are. The biggest issue in the next five years will be coeducation. Not how to get it (or them as the case may well be) but how to live with women as fellow students. Davidson’s too often referred to as a school founded in 1837 for men which recently started admitting women to attract better male students. The co-ed is not the co-ed here; she is an under-ed. How easy it is to bring in a Queen’s slave auction (we’ve always done it); how easy it is to bring in mixers from Salem, Winthrop, Queens and wherever. “But we need variety,” the men protest. So women, bring in a busload of Belmont Abbey men, all dressed in the latest style, all perfectly toileted, all ready for action. Herd them in. Make them throw one shoe into a pile and then all the girls dash for it—mouths agape—to find a sort of silver slipper. Boy, that’s equality. Or men, adjust. There is no radical change involved here. Just a gradual getting together. And while adjustments are made to define individual lives here on campus, awareness of the rest of the world both at large and locally will hopefully grow. If a person is to truly become knowledgeable of the “self,” he must show some concern to oppression that he himself might easily, though inadvertently, be a part of. “When I call Davidson a failure, I call myself one.”

My space is ending. I apologize that this column wasn’t full of my charming wit. I apologize to my old friends and foes who expected me to say something like “let’s burn the damn place down and start over again” or “the Davidson student has grown from Charlie Brown and Michael Doonesbury to Steve Canyon and Mary Worth.” I didn’t use a single “fuck” or “bullshit.” I don’t say these things because I don’t genuinely believe them. Stop to reflect: all the students came as successes. We were all our fathers’, our teachers’, our townspeople’s darlings. Some of us leave as failures. And a bitterness at failing could cause a lashing out at the school. I—unfortunately in the latter category—have been guilty of holding the whip often unnecessarily. But my “obscene” poem said: “It occurs to me that I am Davidson./ I am talking to myself again.” When I call Davidson a failure, I call myself one. If I wane for its success, then my failings are not so.