Women: Success vs. Femininity
By CATHY LANDIS
Staff Writer

In the November 1969 issue of Psychology Today, there is a report on Matina Horner’s Ph.D. thesis on women’s fear
of success. “A bright woman is caught in a double bind. In achievement-oriented situations, she worries not only about failure
but also about success.” Based upon tests run on 90 women and 88 men from the University of Michigan, she
found that the women get higher “test-anxiety” scores than the men did, that the women scored higher on tests when
they were alone than they did in competition, and that many students viewed intellectual achievement as a loss of femininity.
In other words, she found that more women feared success than did men.

At the risk of oversimplifying, the women in our society have been taught to fear success. Society has assigned a
role to women, in most cases, inferior to that of men. A successful woman, essentially, must break away from that
role. Total rebellion is frightening, and most women prefer to compromise.

Does this problem exist at Davidson? The very fact that there are women at Davidson indicates some evidence that the
women here have not only already succeeded but plan to continue their success. Yet the higher the education of a
woman, the more cause she has for the fear of success, for her possibility of attainment is greater. “The girls
in my sample who feared success also tended to have high intellectual ability and histories of academic success,” Horner reported.

Why do they do it? Fear of success leading to the abandonment of goals occurs in part because of societal
expectations about the female role. Women want to conform to the standard by which society determines socially acceptable women. What
is this standard? When asked about the way in which they perceive femininity, many girls responded with definitions such as,
“Femininity is acting like a lady.” “Not being overly aggressive.” “Being treated like a woman by a man.” “The whole
way of presenting yourself.” “The first thing that I think of is the stereotype.” “The first thing I think of
is a guy’s viewpoint.”

These women view femininity as an outside quality that can be determined and judged by how a woman presents herself.
This view conforms to what Sandra and Daryl Bem point out in their article, “Homogenizing the American Woman.” A test
done in 1970 by Broverman, Broverman, Clarkson, Rosenkrantz, and Vogel exposed the double standard of mental health in our society.
For a woman to be considered sane and thus “normal,” she had to be “more submissive, less aggressive, less competitive,
more excitable, more susceptible to hurt feelings, more emotional, more conceited about her appearance, less objective, more antagonistic about math
and science.” Said Erica Jong, author of Fear of Flying, “Being a woman means, unfortunately, believing a lot of male
definitions.”

In a poll of Davidson women, 88 percent feel that they are feminine. Yet many define femininity as being more
submissive than men. It is difficult to strive for success when being submissive. (See QUESTIONING page 4)

The Davidsonian
LXIV, No. EIGHT
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
November 14, 1975

Jackson unleashed: Dr. Robert Jackson resigned as Davidson College Professor of Music. Jackson plays trumpet for the Charlotte Symphony.

By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

The Council on Social Organizations met to clarify a recent suggestion concerning fraternity and eating house membership invitations Wednesday. At
a previous meeting, Dave Mayberry, head of the Council, proposed that Patterson Court houses give “bids” to freshmen for membership.
Mayberry explained at the meeting that the original proposal, “never made into a motion,” was intended only as a way
to “give the Phi Gams an even break” in the process of self-selection. As the system is now set up,
the Gams, an off-campus fraternity, have to wait until the night before self-selection.To issue written bids. Bernhardt accepts position as
Annual Fund director

By SCOTT REID
Staff Writer

Thomas M. Bernhardt, Davidson graduate of the class of '74, will be the college’s new director of the Annual Fund
beginning Monday, November 17. Bernhardt replaces Howard Arbuckle who vacated the position earlier this year.

Bernhardt comes to Davidson after having spent the past year and a half working for his hometown of Lenoir, North
Carolina as an intern, purchasing agent, assistant finance director, and administrative assistant to the city manager.

The Annual Fund is the primary means by which Davidson alumni and parents support the yearly running of the college.
Traditionally, it has provided six percent of that budget’s funding each year. Last year’s Fund had a goal of $300,000
which it exceeded by $15,000. The '76-'77 annual budget has been increased by ten percent over this year. The Annual
Fund’s goal has been increased a corresponding amount to $350,000 for next year.

“It took us the last three years to reach our $300,000 goal,” said Vice President for Development Craven E. Williams.
“To go to $350,000 this year is going to be a very big challenge for Tom who is new to
this business. (See ANNUAL page 3)

BERNHARDT

Dave Kitchins, representing the house, explained that they were “trying to get along with the council.” He cited a reluctance
to push the issue, but that the present system placed the Gams at a disadvantage.

In reference to his proposal, Mayberry explained that he and Jeff Neikirk, president of the Patterson Court Council, decided to
wait to discuss the matter with Dean of Students, Will H. Terry. “Word got around that we were trying to
bring back the old fraternity system while Will was out of town. This just wasn’t true,” said Neikirk.

Gary Barnes of PAX moved that “the Fijis will be allowed to make written bids starting December 7th,” and that
Patterson Court operate on the present system of encouragement to freshmen. John MacArthur of Emanon suggested that this motion be
changed to allow for “verbal invitations” by Court houses starting on December 7th. He also stipulated that this proposal be
“reconsidered in the spring to set a date for next year.”

Tentative approval

This motion was given tentative approval by the Council, subject to a later vote to be made after representatives take
a house vote if they so desire.

After the meeting, Mayberry and Neikirk commented on the confusion which ensued after last week’s meeting. “It got blown way
out of proportion. Written bids for Patterson Court houses were never proposed. I think the word ‘bid’ confused people,” Neikirk
said.

Mayberry emphasized: “My original suggestion is essentially the same thing as what we passed tonight. This won’t allow on-campus houses
to do anything new, but merely sets a standard date for the entire court and the Gams to encourage freshmen,”
said Mayberry.

Both expressed confidence that this ruling would in no way change the process of self-selection. “Representatives of the national headquarters
of the fraternities come down here about twice a year, and they’re really impressed with our system,” said Neikirk, although
it is not the normal process for fraternities.

SPE not member

Commenting on the status of the Sigma Phi Epsilon (SPE) house, an off-campus fraternity now not a member of the
Council of Social Organizations, Neikirk said: “It’s open for them to come back at any time, if they want to.”

Terry also offered some comments on the proposal and subsequent uproar. “I think it’s unfortunate that it was all blown
out of proportion. A full discussion on bids would be very useful.” Terry pointed out that even had written bids
for Patterson Court been proposed, they could not be brought back except by a change in self-selection policy by the
trustees of the college. He expressed satisfaction with the present system of encouragement without written invitations. “It would be unfair
to the freshmen to change strategies at this point,” Terry said.
