May 14, 1953

The Davidsonian

nine

(Photo by Daguerre)

Dea Booth struggles to the edge of a pile from the vicious attack by Carol Folger on referee Jeff Frank
during the Augusta game.

Let me consider well upon what plane I will condescend to communicate with you this blessed week. Simple parable, revealing
allegory, or through a burning bush?

You think of me as a rather inept Sports Editor, gifted but erratic at best. Ah, I am indeed all
of that and so much more. Sports to me are merely a diversion, a panacea for you unthinking, insensible slugs.

I see you lounging in the lobbies on a Sunday afternoon watching football. You dull your brains with narcotic cathode
rays, then you burn yourselves out over twisting lines of print.

But not me! I have seen through this fatal trap, and I know where Truth lies. And I, in a
benevolence as infinite as my wisdom, I lower myself to your level in these, my attempts at aiding you in
perhaps seeing. I hope, perhaps all too vainly, that maybe there is someone, somewhere who is an equal, someone who
is worthy of comprehending the full glory of what I have to say.

And so I sit here, writing a few vague allusions to football or b-ball to satisfy the title of this
dipshit job, hoping that someone will be raised out of the slime that is mainstream Davidson by this, my public
forum.

If you are out there; won’t you please, please get in touch with me? Take me away from this stultifying
task, this moronic collection of fools. I deserve far better than this, and you do too.

Together we can make it. Let me know, okay?

“QUIPS AND CRANKS”

Revised Standard Version

Now Available in the Union During Exams And Spring Break

The Davidson women’s basketball team has been placed on athletic probation by the NCAA Infractions Committee due to an incident
involving freshman guard Carol Folger. The stiff penalty, stemming from an episode in the Wildcattes’ contest with Augusta College, January
10 in Johnston Gym, also bans the Cattes from any post-season tournament play this season.

The Committee’s decision, released February 12, came as a result of a complaint filed by referee Jeffrey Frank.

Late in the second half of the contest with Augusta College, Coach Joe Duncan sent Folger into the game to
“get in the way” of the opponent’s fast-breaking guards. Folger, concentrating so intently on the game plan, neglected to check
in at the scorer’s table. Referee Frank, with what Coach Ken Schmader termed a “gleeful look in his eye,” slapped
a technical foul on the diminutive redhead.

She was quoted as saying, “But...” at which time Frank charged her with a second technical foul. Folger stared in
disbelief at her teammates, then burst into tears and administered a vicious driving kick to the groin of the astonished
referee. As Frank slumped to his knees, the errant cager bolted off the court and out of the gym.

As trainers from both benches worked to revive the prone Frank, yet another altercation broke out on the court. Davidson
guard “B.T.” Tanner apparently went temporarily berserk and blurted out loudly, “COS .%1*¢!”

Interpreting Tanner’s enthusiasm as provocation, the crazed Augusta College bench rushed en force on the Davidson women. A ghastly battle
ensued.

After order was finally restored through the combined efforts of the coaches and Cop Sherrill, Davidson trainer Pat MacLeod attended
to the injuries of the injured Cattes. Sophomore front-liner Nancy Matheny dislocated her right index finger in attempting to gouge
out the eyeball of an A.C. player. Dea Booth also injured her knee trying to run out of the gym
with the game ball.

Frank, still recuperating in Preyer Infirmary, allowed Women’s Athletic Director, Pam Drake to speak for him.

“I am really ashamed of our girls,” said Drake. “They deserve anything they get from the NCAA. I’m sorry about
what they did to Jeff. We all ought to send him a card or some cookies or something.”

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION

Davidson College

presents

MARCH 3-8

BAHAMAS

SIGHTSEEING IN FREEPORT IS MORE THAN JUST SEEING

It’s the casinos, native shows and restaurants....it’s shopping in the Duty-Free markets....it’s snorkeling, sailing, tennis or horseback riding on the
beach....

Freeport's Oceanus Beach and Bay resort hotel

YOUR FREEPORT VACATION INCLUDES:

* Roundtrip Transportation via scheduled carrier
* Meals & Beverages served in flight
* Hotel Accommodation
* Roundtrip transfers
* All Baggage Handling
* Hotel tax
* Personalized registration upon arrival

TRIPLE $309 +$6.00 dept. tax

Please send me my FREE Europe Guide

Enclosed is my deposit for my trip to Freeport ($50.00)

CONTACT:
Brad Swalwell or Joe Logan
892-8021 x 380
SGA Office in the Union
10:00-11:00 A.M. daily

Places Wild Cattes on Probation

After order was finally restored through the combined efforts of the coaches and Cop Sherrill, Davidson trainer Pat MacLeod attended
to the injuries of the injured Cattes. Sophomore front-liner Nancy Matheny dislocated her right index finger in attempting to gouge
out the eyeball of an A.C. player. Dea Booth also injured her knee trying to run out of the gym
with the game ball.

Frank, still recuperating in Preyer Infirmary, allowed Women’s Athletic Director, Pam Drake to speak for him.

“I am really ashamed of our girls,” said Drake. “They deserve anything they get from the NCAA. I’m sorry about
what they did to Jeff. We all ought to send him a card or some cookies or something.”
