ten The Davidsonian June 16, 1904

ALL-Star MOVE

All-Star Chris Young dribbles past Jerry Stallworth and Mark Sumwalt during the annual Turkey Day Classic.

Cats Sign 7'4” Iowa

This is your roving reporter once again for The Davidsonian covering the latest expeditions of Coach Bo Brickles on his recruiting journeys. The date is April 1, 1975, and the place is a farm in Council Bluffs, Iowa, where Bo is talking to Samuel P. Gune, a 7’4” - 260-pound standout center for his Eli Whitney High Harvesters. We’ll listen in on this stimulating conversation:

BB: “Sam, our coaching staff has been watching you for the past few years and we feel that with your statistics of 35 points and 23 rebounds per game, you could bring Davidson into the national basketball scene again.”

SPG: “Again, Mr. Brickles, when was the last time? See, we don’t get no papers out here on this here farm.”

BB: “We were nationally ranked during the days of Mike Malloy. Surely you’ve heard of him.”

SPG: “Yeah, isn’t he the guy who got cut from the Carolina Cougars of the minor leagues for being 40 pounds overweight?”

BB: “Yes, but that’s not important. Back to the original subject matter. My three assistants and I feel that next year with our 5-guard offense we need a ‘big man’ to turn us around and enable us to win the Southern Conference tournament.”

SPG: “Is that the one with Southern Mississippi, Southern Baptist, and Georgia Southern in it?”

BB: “No, we play the powerhouses of The Citadel, Appalachian, and VMI.”

SPG: “Well, what was your record last year?”

BB: “We play a great schedule which includes UCLA, N.C. State, and Notre Dame.”

SPG: “That means I’ll get to see Adrian Dantley play, but you haven’t answered my question—What was your record last year?”

BB: “Not only can you see A.D. play, you’ll be playing against him!”

SPG: “You mean I get to start my freshman year?”

BB: “Well, we can’t make any promises, as we do have a great program we’re proud of. You see, first we start you off with a couple of years of JV ball and after you’ve developed the basic skills we move you up to much stiffer competition in a league called IMAC.”

SPG: “I do know that one, the International Miners and Coal workers. Ya see, I have this buddy in West Virginia.”

BB: “No, no, no! This is an intramural group where you can play against such world legends as Chico, Rodge, Stick, and YB.”

SPG: “Wowee! It sure sounds great. But, I’d like to know a little about you Bo.”

BB: “You mean you haven’t seen my #1 bestseller of a book entitled Winning is Easy.”

SPG: “No, I haven’t. Ya see, the country store is 5 miles away and it only carries comic books!”

BB: “Well, if you ever get a chance to go into the big city, look for my sequel soon to be released called Take Him Out When He’s Hot.”

SPG: “Hold on just a second. I think I hear my pa coming in. I’m sure he’ll have a couple of questions to ask you. (Pa enters room) Pa, I’d like you to meet Bo Brickles, the head coach at Davidson College.”

Mr. G: “Hey there. Isn’t that school in the heart of the Pocono Mountains in Pennsylvania?”

BB: “No, we’re located in North Carolina, only 15 miles from the vivacious city of Charlotte. We have an excellent academic record and also are trying to establish an excellent basketball program. That’s why we’re trying to sign Sam here.”

Mr. G: “I don’t know if my son’s got enough smarts to enter there at Dickinson.”

BB: “Davidson! Incidentally, what were your SAT board scores, Sam?”

SPG: “I think it was 720.”

BB: “On which, verbal or math?”

SPG: “No, you’ve got it all wrong, 720 was the combined score.”

BB: “Don’t worry. We'll see what we can do.”

Mr. G: “What about the social life at Davidson?”

BB: “Well, we have a great new library. Sam can even have his own carrel.”

Mr. G: “My boy don’t want to be involved with no girls!! Please, sir, answer my question—What about the social life?”

BB: “We have, without a doubt, one of the best economic departments in the South.”

SPG: “C’mon Dad. It sounds like a swell place and this here man is real nice. Let me go there.”

Mr. G: “Well, it’s up to you.”

SPG: “Great Mr. Brickles, where do I sign?”

BB: “Right here next to this line.”

So, here endeth the continuing saga of Bo and his staff’s quest for the “big man.” After Bo had left Council Bluffs...

Infamous Dr. Q Meets Abbo As Derelict Duo Hallucinate

When we last left our heroes, namely us, they were in the Dread Abbo’s office. Abbo’s office had the only light on campus, and Abbo was about to reveal a startling secret to the Derelict Duo.

“Well, brothel-breathed fools, guess what I have in store for you?” Abbo smirked.

“You’re gonna tell me who Stan Boskovitch is?” exclaimed C.A. in wondrous glee.

“No, I’m going to make it so no one can escape Humes. Dick Smith and Young Buck will look like geniuses for only taking four years of Humes. I can teach Humes forever.”and was on his way back to the Piedmont area, I asked Sam about his signing and he said, “Well, I have already talked with Mr. Wooden and officially signed with UCLA. I was just fooling around with this Brickles guy.” As Samuel P. Gune whistles as he walks back to his barn where he shoots through a peach basket all day long, this reporter has only one thing to say to Coach Bo Brickles, who is carrying a worthless letter-of-intent: APRIL FOOLS!

“Oh, .. in-., “And here is the instrument of my plan.” Saying that, Abbo pulled a piece of paper from his desk. “I call it my Doomsday final. Not even Prof. Langford could pass this one, Turkies.” Our heads whirled to the sound from our left as a morose little head popped out of an otherwise innocent-looking black box and uttered an acknowledging “S’all right”? Abbo replied, “S’all right, amigo.”

C.A.’s computer-like mind spun as he posed the inevitable, “What in the name of Rah Rah junior is that”? “That’s Langford,” said Abbo. Y.B. retorted, “Guess he doesn’t do a whole lot of guest lecturing anymore, huh Abbo. No hand gestures either, eh”? “You insolent flunkie,” raged Abbo. “I made him what he is today.” “Yeah, he’s probably real high on being a black box. I’ve always wanted to be one too,” snorted C.A. “You seek to deceive me,” cried Abbo, “but it’s much too late.”

“With this single sheet of paper, I can flunk pre-law, pre-med and other liberal arts students forever without any question at all. Here, look for yourself, lackies.” A hideous roar emerged from this obviously possessed man as he handed a black sheet of paper to this pair of weiners. Evil pervaded from its very surface. On it was written in blood-stained colors the following:

Read and answer the following questions carefully in any manner you wish, for you cannot answer them no way, no how, and in no time. Time limit: eternity without end.

1. Where does God live?
   A) What is his P.O. Box?
   B) Bonus: give His zip code--5 points.

2. Who is buried in the tomb of the unknown soldier?
   A) Name his father and second cousin twice removed.
   B) (Hint) It is not Stan Boskovitch.

3. Identify the following with a sentence fragment:
   A) Gnorg, Gnorg, Spurfle
   B) Verlitosis and the 3 symptoms

“Boy, C looks pretty tough,” said C.A. “Yeah,” acknowledged Y.B. “I’ve seen it before on one of Puss’s spots. Look at the next question,” he said trembling.

4. What did Hollywood say?
   “I thought he was dead,” said Kors.

5. What is, and if so, why?

And at the bottom of the test was written: I pledge that I have cheated on this test. “Of course I never accept an unpledged test,” chortled Abbo. “Better than that, there are only 50 possible points, and I grade on a scale of 100,” he screamed. At this Abbo laughed so hysterically that he nearly fell over. Seeing his chance, light-fingered Young Buck stuffed the test in his shirt and exclaimed, “Feets don’t fail me now,” and hotfooted for the door. Abbo pressed a button, and when Y.B. got to the door and opened it, directly in front of him was “Stan Boskovitch, by God,” exclaimed C.A. “No, not Stan Boskovitch,” said the person who looked like Stan Boskovitch. “It’s me, Dave Myers.” Saying that, Boskovitch ripped off his mask and stood revealed as Dave Myers, armed with an icepick.

“Fools, I knew you would try something,” said Abbo. “Yeah, I been waiting ever since I read about being in an icepick fight without an icepick,” said Myers as he advanced menacingly. Showing that their minds work together, our two semi-mongoloid cowards pointed to each other and exclaimed, “He wrote it, he wrote it.” Myers advanced crying out a nearly unintelligible sound, “Yum, yum, eat ’em up.” Meanwhile, Abbo was closing in from behind with the four-foot screws with our names on them. “This is cookies, C.A.,” uttered Y.B. “Gnahgnahgnahgnahgnah,” moaned C.A. ala Three Stooges. “Oh please help us, Mr. Wizard. I'll never cut another class,” screamed Y.B. “Man you are desperate,” noticed C.A.

Suddenly, a flash of lightning, the roar of thunder, a mighty hi ho divine intervention and Dr. Q himself appeared in Abbo’s office. The Q threw a tube of Clearasil on the floor, and Myers dove on it. Dr. Q then said, “Frazzle Dee, Frazzle dumb, time for this one to go home.” The room turned into a swirling vortex. The last thing we heard was Abbo muttering, “Curses, foiled again.” Dr. Q just laughed, and when we awoke, it was 11:30. Young Buck had slept through the Geach again. “C.A., I had the weirdest dream last night.” “Don’t say it, Y.B. I had a weird one too.” It was then we noticed torn up bits of black paper lying ’round the room. It rang a bell (“Ding”). “Ain’t no way,” said C.A. “Yeah,” nodded Y.B. “We got to take it a little easier from now on. We may never get out of here,” the intrepid one declaimed. “Yeah,” muttered C.A., “we gonna die trying.” One of these days, we gonna blow Davidson out of our shorts.

“but Drive In And Use Davidson's Only Automatic Outside Carwash Only $2.00 Including Tires CASHION’S GULF SERVICE S. Main Street