today it is probably the best new literature review in the country.

“We want to immediately improve the quality of the copy submitted as much as is possible,” added Crawford. “We want to do more advertising for manuscripts and make the magazine’s contests more of a campus event. For example, we would like to make the awards in a ceremony, as much as that is economically feasible. We would also like to increase the number of subscriptions held by faculty, alumni, and administration members,” noted Armstrong. “Also, between Chip and I, we know a lot of people on the Eastern Seaboard who like to write. We would notify them of the magazine’s contests so that they could let their friends know about them.”

Wayne Gulledge is an incumbent co-editor of The Miscellany. He feels that his past and present experiences allow him to realize the potential and problems of the magazine.

“When I came into The Miscellany I found our contest notifications were going out to about 400 institutions, but the responses were very few,” said Gulledge. “I purchased a new mailing list of an additional 500 names and have rented out the old list to a New York firm so as to make the magazine more self-sufficient. I’m considering setting up a Miscellany contest just for Davidson College students. In the past, we have received more submissions from people outside of Davidson than from people here. I’ve tried to get more students to submit materials. I’ve notified the English Department of our deadlines and specifically went to the creative writing professor last year to get him to tell his classes about them. I think The Miscellany should continue to go to all of the students. I think enough of them read it to make it worthwhile,” concluded Gulledge.

Cabinet resurrects YMCA, plans Christmas gift fund

By MARK DEATON
Editor

The new YM/YWCA cabinet, before being officially approved by the Elections Council, has initiated plans for the 1975 Christmas Gift fund, to be collected next week. An unopposed slate of John McArthur, president, Mark Scandling, vice president, Katherine Morton, treasurer, and Marcee Morris, secretary are directing the fund drive as their first duties as YM/YWCA officers. They expressed hopes of raising a minimum of $2500 for the Davidson Day Care Center. The four promised a more active and enthusiastic Davidson Y than that of the past year.

“I was so hacked with all the complaints I heard about the Y, that I just had to run,” said Morton. “It’s going to be a learning process, but we’re backed by enthusiasm and a touch of idealism,” she said. “We’re even more enthusiastic than we look.”Just “that we've got so much to learn about running the Y,” Morton maintained. “Let’s face it, the Y has been pretty much dead this year,” said McArthur. “The four of us wanted to run as a team to bring more unified leadership to the Y this year, but we’re going to get input from a lot more than just us four.” McArthur outlined plans for a weekend retreat shortly after Christmas “to delineate the purposes, goals, and roles the Y can and should play on campus.” The cabinet expressed hopes of many persons interested in the Y attending. “We need to do a lot of work on the programs the Y has now or those we have recently had, but I see some new ideas coming out of the retreat,” said McArthur.

“I just can’t believe students aren’t reading it.” Dave Skibbens is presently The Miscellany's Business Manager. He thinks the main problem with The Miscellany at Davidson today is that it does not receive enough publicity. “A lot of people here are not aware when the magazine is holding its contests,” Skibbens pointed out. “By making people aware of The Miscellany through publicity in The Davidsonian and over WDAV, not only will we get more submissions, but students will also be more interested in reading it.

“I don’t feel The Miscellany at present is exercising the full potential available to it. We have virtually no help on the magazine at this time. I think there should be a concerted and accelerated effort to make students aware that there are unique possibilities here in producing a literary magazine. I have made an effort to find out who is reading the magazine now. I would like to see us send out subscription blanks to students where if they filled out their name they would get a copy. It would be, in effect, a poll of our readership. The money saved by printing copies only for those who want them could be reallocated for other student activities,” said Skibbens.

Running for co-editorship positions are Tricia Tommerdahl and Lillian Gascoigne. They see a place for prints and photographs as well as poems and stories in The Miscellany. “I think that The Miscellany should continue to be distributed to all of the students since they pay for it,” said Gascoigne, who worked on Inklings (the freshman literary magazine), edits The Davidsonian’s “Inside Art” and works on the Union’s Poetry Committee. “And when prints and photographs are included in it, people who don’t enjoy poetry will look at them.”

“Two years ago when I did some work for The Miscellany,” recalled Tommerdahl, “I noticed that there isn’t a lot of student participation. I think we could solicit in a more obvious way. Maybe we could advertise in The Davidsonian or run an article or something. I think there’s a lot of stuff around people could submit. We could use The Davidsonian’s typesetter and save money,” Gascoigne indicated. “We have always enjoyed poetry and we think that it is a needed way for people to express themselves. The Miscellany is a real opportunity for people to share their feelings with others.”