Two The Davidsonian March 13, 1975

Change In Exchange Program Emphasizes Traveling Abroad

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

Davidson College has participated in a student exchange program with seven colleges in Virginia. At the end of this school
year, however, Davidson will modify its part in the exchange substantially. Vice-President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan cited two
major reasons for the change. Coeducation at Davidson has limited the number of women transfer students the college can enroll.
“What we're faced with is keeping girls who will be here for four years out and letting one-year transfers in,”
Bevan explained.

Difficulty in transferring grades and in evaluating courses students take at the other schools has also been a problem, according
to Bevan. Sometimes a student will take an insufficient number of courses to equal a year’s work at Davidson, and
sometimes the transcripts arrive almost a month late at Davidson. “We’ve had more than a few headaches with transferring credits
back here,” Bevan concluded.

After this year, Davidson will exchange students in international study programs with students from the seven other colleges. For instance,
Davidson students will be able to participate in Hollins’ study in Spain program, and Hollins’ students can enroll at Marburg
or Montpelier through the Davidson programs. Sweetbriar, another participant in the exchange program, has an outstanding Junior Year Abroad program,
according to Bevan. He said that Sweetbriar’s Paris program is recognized across the United States. “It’s the most famous JYA
program in the country, and Sweetbriar has been running it for a number of years,” Bevan said.

The vice-president admitted that economics is a factor in the modification of the Eight College Exchange Program. The number of
students from Davidson participating in the program has dwindled over the past few years, and almost all the students went
to Hollins for the creative writing and film classes, ignoring the other schools. “We’re having trouble trying to keep our
German and French programs afloat,” Bevan explained. He added that other colleges in the exchange program are having similar problems.
Hollins, for instance, is running into difficulties with its Spanish program, according to Bevan. He hopes to revitalize these international
study opportunities through the modification of the Eight College Exchange Program.

Eight women from schools in the exchange program presently attend Davidson. Six are from Mary Baldwin, while one comes from
Randolph-Macon Women’s College and one from Hollins. One exchange student felt that Davidson is making a mistake in withdrawing from
the regular program. “I think people around here could learn a lot by going to other schools, as far as
majors are concerned.” She said that the psychology program at Hollins is stronger than the one at Davidson and that
the sociology program at Randolph-Macon also is better. “I feel like the approach to academics is more traditional here; too
much is spoon-fed and then given back to the professor,” she remarked.

The exchange student said that Davidson students working at other schools for a year may learn to apply his or
her learning more completely. The student indicated that being in a women’s school for two years before coming to Davidson
helped her gain a confidence that the women at Davidson seem to lack. Women at Davidson seem to be intimidated
in class to a certain extent, according to this student. The exchange student has enjoyed being at Davidson, she said.
“Davidson is larger, and I am not as pampered here. I feel more independent socially here,” she concluded.

Other colleges participating in the Eight College Exchange Program include Hampden-Sydney and Washington and Lee.

Dr. Walter Meeks
French Professor Meeks Dies At 49

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

Dr. William Elmore Meeks Jr., a Davidson professor of French, died Friday morning of undetermined causes. He was 49 years
old. After becoming ill Friday morning, Meeks was taken to a hospital in Charlotte where he died. Meeks suffered from
diabetes and a heart condition, but it is not yet known whether these difficulties contributed to his death. A post-mortem
spinal tap revealed blood in Meeks’ spinal column.

The funeral was held Monday at 2 p.m. in the Davidson United Methodist Church. The funeral was heavily attended by
Meeks’ students and particularly those who went to Montpellier, France, to study while he was director of the college’s program
there. Meeks became a professor at Davidson in 1962 where he contributed significantly to the French department and worked to
encourage student participation in international study programs.

‘The River Niger’ Flows To Davidson

By ANNE PELFREY
Asst. News Editor

A touring Broadway cast will appear in Love Auditorium this Wednesday at 8 p.m. to present the “River Niger,” aplay
about a black family’s life and struggles in Harlem. The play has won over 20 awards including the 1974 Tony
for Best Play. “Davidson is the first to present the play in this area and that makes us a kind
of leader in the area,” said Russell Kushigian, Assistant Director of the College Union. “Bringing this play here is part
of bringing the best of the performing arts to Davidson,” he said. The Black Student Coalition under the leadership of
Reggie Harding played a large part in bringing the play to Davidson. “I heard about this play and thought it
would be a great thing for this campus. So I convinced Frazier Marsh and C. Shaw Smith of the play’s
value,” said Harding. “This is a very good play—the best being from Broadway—and it’s black-oriented,” he said. “I don’t think
it’s good just because it’s black-oriented, but that’s an extra plus,” he added. Joseph A. Walker, who wrote the play,
also directs the touring company for the play. Walker and his wife Dorothy have managed to form and maintain their
own acting company. About his troupe, Walker said: “We wanted to train them before they become bewildered and ruined by
the Broadway success syndrome.” Walker shows his love of the drama when he says, “the stage is where it’s at.
The stage will always be the place for great language, for the gift of words. The theater is poetry.” The
comedy-drama of the Harlem black family is set in contemporary times. “This is a very warm, human drama,” said Kushigian.
Tickets are available at the Union for $3, $4, and $5.

P. E. Changes

The physical education requirements as they now stand, are accurately described on page 31 of the 1974-75 Davidson College Catalogue,
according to Director of Physical Education Chip Stone. Each student is required to “demonstrate or attain proficiency in one team
sport and in four individual or dual sports.” The following changes are pending before the faculty:

1. The proficiency tests will be eliminated from the team sports altogether. All one has to do is participate and
credit will be given. The idea behind this is that each student should experience a team situation.
2. The proficiency tests for the individual or dual sports will be held only at certain times during each term,
say the first two weeks. A student may take the test at the start of the term. If he passes
the test, he will be given credit for that sport. Otherwise, he can then elect to take the class. Again,
all he has to do is participate in the class to receive credit. No proficiency tests will be required of
students taking the class.
3. A student may elect to take two team sports and three individual or dual sports, or one and four.
4. The clause that a student must meet the P.E. requirements by the beginning of his junior year will be
dropped altogether. It was never intended for this to be strictly enforced. It was just to discourage students from putting
off all requirements until the last minute.
5. Intramurals will count for credit. Cheerleaders and pep band members will also receive a P.E. credit.

PIRG (Continued from page 1)

said Hedrick. He also said that the Davidson chapter of PIRG is trying to locate diseased workers and put them
in touch with the people who can grant them compensation. “We will have difficulties with the Brown Lung project, however,
because some mill owners deny the existence of disease,” stated Hedrick. Prescription drugs and returnable bottle and can legislation are
but a couple of research areas that Davidson-N.C. PIRG will pursue in the coming months.
