Recruit Signed As Strategy Redone
By CHUCK KENNON
Sports Editor

The 1975 Davidson College football team was strengthened by the signing of blue-chip recruit Sid Osborne. Coach Ed Farrell stated last week that Osborne, a native of Atlanta, had definitely decided to come to Davidson. Osborne is 6’2”, weighs 190 pounds, and played quarterback for three years at Atlanta Northside. During these three years, Northside was 28-1. Osborne lettered every year and has been named to the All Metro-Team and the All-City team. He is ranked among the top 2% of high school athletes in America and is a member of the Prep All-American Squad.

Farrell explained that Osborne “appears to have all the physical and mental qualities we're looking for. He is a very impressive passer and an excellent all-around athlete. Osborne is a good leader, an attribute that’s essential for a quarterback.” During his senior year, Osborne completed 54 of 101 attempted passes for 1200 yards. In addition, he rushed for 250 yards. Farrell said, “He greatly helps our quarterback situation. Sophomore Gary Overstreet has a recurring shoulder injury that makes him questionable for next year. That leaves us with only two experienced quarterbacks, freshman Joel Golmont and junior Mike Hall. So with Osborne, we now have more depth.”

Next fall, the Wildcats will be operating from an entirely new offense. Farrell said, “We’ll be playing from the Wing T offense. Notre Dame and the University of Delaware use it and both teams have considerable success. We wanted to use it last fall but were only able to implement some of its aspects. For instance, in the last two games we passed for over 6 touchdowns but only threw around 20 passes in each game. It employs the off-action pass and it is very efficient. There is room for deception if this formation is used right,” Farrell explained. He added, “This allows us to balance our attack with running as well as passing and Osborne should fit in well, as he is more than just a thrower.”

Osborne comes from an athletically inclined family. His father, Larry Osborne Jr., played baseball for the old Detroit Tigers and Washington Senators. His grandfather pitched for the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Cubs. The third-generation star also excels at baseball, and Farrell indicated that Osborne will also play that sport at Davidson.

Farrell concluded by announcing that the football staff will conduct a free football clinic the morning of Saturday, March 29, to be followed by a scrimmage that marks the end of spring training. “At this clinic, we will show some new thinking and strategy in both our offense and defense.” Continued Farrell, “We will use overhead projectors in the morning, and the scrimmage will put our plans into action. We hope students and everyone else will feel welcome to come and watch us.”

WORLD FAMOUS
Kitchen Goodness
PIZZA - LASAGNE - RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS
596-0256
HWY 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD

Team Leads Cats To First Win, Diamonders Sport 1-4 Record
By Bill Lloyd
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats defeated Appalachian Monday in their first conference win of the season by an impressive 5-1 margin. “It was an important win and the team played a great game both offensively and defensively,” commented Davidson baseball coach Junior Wade. The first two runs came in the second inning.As a result of smart base running by senior catcher Mark Rodgeman, the Cats played well in the field, having only 2 errors. “Our pitching was excellent for this game. Joel Tew pitched well for us, giving up only three hits,” added Wade. Tew also threw an impressive nine strikeouts. The Wildcats scored their last 3 runs when senior first baseman George Weiker slammed a 365-foot homer to bring in Dale Horner and Gary Pomaroy. It seems that the Cats are finally starting to put things together, and if the same standard of play keeps up, the Cats will be tough as the season continues. “I am real pleased with the attitude and spirit shown by the team, especially after coming back from four losses,” said Coach Wade. The Cats are 1-4 at this point; however, they are 1-0 in the all-important conference standings.

The Wildcats were scheduled to play Guilford Wednesday, but the game was postponed until next Monday. Wade is optimistic for a win over Guilford. Guilford is a tough team, and the Cats will have to play up to their potential. 

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
- Prescriptions Filled
- Glasses Repaired
- Glasses Adjusted
- Sunglasses

The Cats play Indiana University from Pennsylvania here Thursday at 3 and East Carolina Saturday at 1:30. The team hopes for a big crowd for the East Carolina game as they are defending conference champs. “We are finally doing the things that we have to do to win. We have the personnel; it's just a matter of getting it together,” concluded Coach Wade.

206 N. Main Ph. 663-3942 Mooresville

Procter & Gamble Brand Management
It’s One of the Finest Career Opportunities Available Anywhere

Procter & Gamble manufactures more than 50 consumer products, including Crest toothpaste, Duncan Hines cake mixes, Tide detergent, Pampers disposable diapers, Scope mouthwash, and many others whose names you would recognize just as easily. For each product, there is a small group, usually just 3 people, who plan, create, and supervise the total consumer marketing effort — including TV advertising — for that brand. It’s called Brand Management, and it is one of the most challenging and personally rewarding jobs in our company.

Right now, we're looking for a few highly qualified college seniors to join us at the beginning level in brand management. “Innovative,” “proven record of leadership and being able to get things done,” “superior academic achievement,” and “good oral and written communications skills” are some of the words we use to describe the people we want. We want a “take charge” person who can assume immediate responsibility, learn quickly, contribute good ideas, and cope with (and even enjoy) constantly changing situations. To such a person, we offer a very bright future. We promote only from within, and only on merit, and you'll move ahead in marketing management as fast as you show by your work that you're ready for more responsibility.

If this interests you, and you think you qualify, read the folder on P&G Brand Management that’s in your Placement Office. Then, if you're still interested, fill out the Personal Data Sheet that’s also in your Placement Office and send it to:

Ms. Sandy Moersdorf
The Procter & Gamble Co.
P. O. Box 599— Dept. M
Cincinnati, Ohio 45201

Include both your school and home address and phone numbers. If the Placement Office is out of Data Sheets, just send us a letter and your resume. We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.