May 2, 1975 The Davidsonian

Five at / Gus Succop

Veredith Hall at home

Like most aspiring young scholars, I was deeply saddened to see Hatties lying in the charcoaled ruins of a successful arson. Hatties was to the thirsty Davidson student as Berlin was to Jesse Owens, and now that the tap has been tapped and bought for the last time, where does the erudite guzzler go on Thursday nights? Hatties, or Hattis (long i, please), positioned itself into almost everyone’s schedule. I've known some who considered the pilgrimage on Thursday night as a fourth course. Hatties let her hair down to Davidson men for years, and when she changed hands, the new owner, Larry, showed and displayed the same hospitality, enhanced by a remodeling job. But now, God rest her soul, Hatties has become just another Piedmont social legend, like fraternities. Her pinball machines, bathrooms (7), pool table, and jukebox all lie asphyxiated. There will be no more Thursday night getaways from E.H., no more innocent gooses in a crowd of I don’t know how many, no more losing count of your date or pitchers drunk, no more acceptable Friday morning 9:00 a.m. excuses, and no more having your car towed from an ecumenical fairground parking lot. Someone, I guess, had a gripe with someone connected with Hatties. Someone was too sensitive to take the insults, the incidentals, the pejorative kidding.

Revelation shows course of the future

I had a dream the other day. I was down in my wine cellar gazing at the stars on the label of some vintage cognac when a delegation knocked on my door. Now in my dream, I am 86 years old and it takes me a while to get up the stairs. My wife had seated the educators in the library.

“Old man, we are ready for you. We want you to teach that course on the future.”

“But I proposed that course decades ago in the 1970s.”

“Well, we had to be sure you knew what you were talking about.”

I accepted and they left. Then I went over to that oldest part of my home which then was pushing toward the beginning of its fourth century. In an old desk, I found a course outline written on legal paper with a ballpoint.

“This is a course on the future but since you live today your first concern will be how do you get your grade. The Final Exam will be worth 100 percent of your grade.

“Our discussions will cover many areas and will get increasingly difficult. Among the topics to be discussed are: Investigating plant communism and the philosophy of plants, Can existence be inter-dimensional, Concerns related to suicide when it is the only way to die, How do we reduce our faith in rationality by 25%, why most Christians underestimate Christ’s intelligence or would the insights in the sermon on the mount have been had by anyone with an I.Q. of 42, who are ‘they,’ who am I, how many feelings do I have at one time?

“The Final Exam will be made up of three questions, you will supply the three questions. No answers are necessary. The easier the questions can be answered the less valuable will the questions be.”

There was more but my eyes went to the responses, written at the bottom, from the universities and colleges to whom I had submitted my proposal.

“We do not accept proposals which are not typed.”

“We are studying your proposal and will contact you in the near future.”

“We are sorry to reject your course. Our goals are to develop intelligent, well-rounded individuals—you have perhaps confused wisdom with intelligence.”

“Under your cloak of academic credentials lies a mystic. Mysticism leaves flat spots on well-rounded people.”

My dream revealed one thing I had not thought about occurring in the future. The people in the dream had no legs. They were so well-rounded they just rolled along. You know, I think I could have predicted that with a closer look at the 1970s.

Hatties’ fire emblazons memories

And who really buys this round? Well, Larry will financially, but every Davidson student who went to Hatties, regardless of the day or hour, to share in something will buy it. But that’s just the shortcomings of alcohol, not Hatties. There will be, as time moves on, other “Hatties.” And as long as the Anchor Grill watches its step, the F.A.C. will keep bombing those trains with beer cans. Most of our cozy getaways are being pillaged. Davidson is unique; it has its own “domino theory.” I wish, just wish, that a Davidson student had burned Hatties, because then, with the note he would have left, we could pose the immortal question: “Why did you do it?” Some endobiotic slob will be cooling his heels on Thursday night with a mug of beer (sorry about that!). My suggestion is a combination of Harry Truman and an old Salem commercial: “You can take the Davidson student out of Hatties, but you can’t take Hatties out of the Davidson student.” See you all in front of Hatties, six-pack in hand, on Thursday night. Why ruin a tradition, much less a foreign policy?”

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.Integrity shortage burdens leadership

This period of time is one of shortages. There seems to have been a shortage of everything from toilet paper to sugar. Davidson College has not been spared, either. We have a housing shortage, a shortage of eating facilities, of gym time, and of money to provide badly needed new educational facilities. More critically, this college has one additional shortage: one of leadership integrity. In the past weeks, this shortage has become abundantly clear.

Take the Goals Committee, for example. The trustees presented the college community with a much-needed committee formed to set college priorities for the next ten years. Immediately, the appointments to the Committee ensured that the Committee would have no independent role whatsoever. Sam Spencer, Craven Williams, Will Terry, Grover Meetze, Jack Bevan, and Warner Hall were participating members of the committee. Silent committee members Mark Deaton and John Munce were appointed. These people, by view of position, have automatic input into any decisions made at Davidson. Why then put them on the committee? Simple. Calling the in-crowd a committee, especially a trustee-faculty-administration-student committee, lent credence to whatever actions these people were planning to take. With Spencer and Hall dominating the committee, no chance was provided for real discussion. The weight of the boss’ statement tends to dominate that of the workers’. That’s exactly what happened.

First, Spencer gave the committee the royal shaft. The members spent an entire meeting discussing the Carnegie Building. Spencer knew all the time that a unilateral decision of his had already turned the building into a guest house. He sat mute. When faculty representative Kaylor complained at the next meeting, Spencer was his usual patronizing self. “No Dave,” he explained, “there won’t be another situation like this one. From now on all such decisions will go through the Goals Committee.” No explanation as to why he’d wasted the committee’s time, other than “the decision needed to be made immediately” was given.

Unrealistic charge

Dr. Spencer, why weren’t you honest with the committee? Why not have the integrity to tell the truth from the start? Why make a behind-the-back decision and then fail to present it to the group analyzing the situation you just decided?

At last week’s Open End, Craven Williams explained that it wasn’t the members’ fault that the Committee hadn’t functioned in an intelligent manner. He explained that the Committee had to follow the trustee charge, even though the members realized the charge was an unrealistic one.

Integrity

Craven is a decent man in an indecent situation. He was trying to be honest and explain why the committee hadn’t worked. But he’d go no further. I explained to him that the Goals Committee is still a committee, and in fact, the members could take its report wherever they felt it should go. Craven backed off. Neither he nor anyone else at the Open End was willing to take the step and say “we are supposed to set goals, let’s do it the right way, not the Trustee way.” That kind of integrity wasn’t voiced.

Needless to say, this abdication of responsibility of the Goals Committee upset me no little bit. I was walking towards Chambers with the Mench, expressing my displeasure loudly, as is my cussed practice.

Spencer

“It’s all Spencer, Mench,” I explained. “People like Craven are afraid to think for themselves. The Cravens and the Bob Stephensons show up and take the rap, while he is in the background. Everyone is afraid to think or act independently for fear that Spencer will lower the boom. And Spencer would lower the boom...”

At that time I saw a look of terror come to Mench’s face. I looked to the left, and there, not ten feet away, in white shorts and an orange tennis shirt, leaving the library with his son, was the subject of my tirade.

“Mench, there he is,” I yelled. “Dr. Spencer, could you please stop and talk a minute,” I said.

Now as anyone who’s ever been caught talking behind someone’s back can attest, I was embarrassed. Not for what I’d said, to the contrary; I’ve expressed these views often in public. I just felt that I should talk to his face, not his back. So I lowered my voice and explained my position.

“Dr. Spencer,” I began, “I really hope you’ll go over to the Open End. The Goals Committee is saying that it has given up, and questions are being asked that only you can answer. People are becoming upset.”

Leadership crisis

“Oh yeah?” Spencer questioned.

“Yes,” I continued. “It’s a really bad situation. The students were told that this committee was an important one and are now being told it is a farce. I really feel that you need to be there.”

“Well, that’s too bad,” Spencer said. He turned on his heel and walked straight to his white-fenced house, not far from the scene of the Open End.

It is too bad. Our leadership is not at all responsive to anyone but themselves. There’s nowhere else to go, either. The Trustees explain that they are rarely on campus and depend on Spencer to keep them posted. How many employees give their boss a bad report on themselves? Sam Spencer is a lot of things, but dumb he is not. It’s a vicious circle, with the students trapped inside.

Presbyterian Presidents

The Board of Trustees requires that the President of the College be an active member of the Presbyterian Church.