April 17, 1975

The Davidsonian

Eleven Take that Leap

Photo by Pete Goodman

Freshman Grady Barnhill returns a volley from a Pfeiffer College foe. The Cats hosted Pfeiffer on Tuesday and took a 9-0 nonconference victory. This gave the Cats a two-game winning streak.

LP's yield to SPE’s

(Continued from page 9)

tightest, with three teams battling it out. The up-and-coming freshmen, the Bongs (R-III) lead this division, although they have yet to play the Beavers or the Delts “A” (Ah, the wonders of scheduling). The Beavers, led by hard-hitting Steve Fabian and the pitching of tall, distinguished Bob (Miles) Beard, downed the Delts, 8-3, but the Delts came bouncing back behind the shutout pitching of Scott Logan, 10-0 over Cannon II.

Spoilers highlighted the volleyball action, as the SPE’s slipped by the undermanned SIF’s 16-14, 15-13 as the much-maligned Ed Yeaton arose as a force to be reckoned with, and the SPE’s were able to minimize the damage done by the spikes of Dunn and Duncan, the best front-line pair on campus. The SIF’s loss enabled Moody Emanon Z to gain sole possession of first place in Division III, if only for a short while. Emanon Z looked impressive in their three-game match victory over the SPE’s earlier this week. The other previously undefeated Emanon team fell easily to a surprisingly strong PDT “3” team. The Emanon paper tigers’ loss enabled the Kerwood Derbies to roll into first place in Division II, a position they should keep until the season ends next week. The Bongs, showing a definite liking for spring sports, remained atop Division I, and IFT continued loosening up for the playoffs by treating the...

IMAC facilities hurt:

(Continued from page 10)

the South. But what about the facilities that these teams need to operate on the level to which they seem to be striving? And what about the rest of the student body in need of exercise to break the tension which this school so easily creates? Granted, money is tight and housing is in bad shape, but I just do not see how Davidson College can intensify their intercollegiate sports and still be fair to the student body when all they have is an antiquated Johnston Gym. However, with the varsity, J.V., and girls having practice and games, and P.E. courses going on, about the only time possible to shoot some hoops is one night a week during your IMAC game. The basketball court is not the only area that is getting congested. With racquetball, squash, and handball becoming more popular, more students are asking directions for the indoor courts, only to find that there are only three of them. Last year the tennis team stayed on their courts. Now, with the tennis program greatly expanded, they find themselves forced to demand priority on courts that used to be exclusively for students. What used to be one of Davidson’s strongest facilities is rapidly shrinking. What can be done? The only addition that’s been made to the gym has been extra offices. And when you look at other student relaxation areas, like our torn Union, one cannot but feel that the administration is not going out of its way to care for the students’ human needs. A new gym might be an impossible hope for the near future, but I think it’s time for the student body to see what’s going on. They must demand that their needs be met, and not just be put off in favor of expansion in student enrollment.

Winning streak extended

Netters crush two opponents as tournament looms ahead

By GORDON WIDENHOUSE

Contributing Editor

Rick Quinby smothered Carl Wright 6-1, 6-0, in the number one singles and the Davidson Wildcats rolled to a 9-0 smashing of Pfeiffer Tuesday afternoon in a nonconference tennis battle. The Cats extended their winning string to two matches, having whipped High Point by a score of 6-3 on Monday. Prior to this week, the Davidson squad had experienced rugged terrain in Greenville, S.C. as they were soundly thrashed 9-0 by the Furman Paladins. Commenting...On the conference loss, head coach Jeff Frank said, "It was really a strange match in that neither team played particularly good tennis. It was one of those games where points are lost by a player instead of being won by the opposition." He went on to say that the team had worked on some strategic methods which he felt would aid them when they face Appalachian on Thursday afternoon in Boone. "One thing which we have to do is be patient and wait for the opening before we try to put the passing shot in," explained the former Davidson player. "I think that we still have an outside shot in the conference tournament. But we are certainly going to have to mature and gain some more experience."

Frank has been concerned over the course of the season that playing so many freshmen and inexperienced players in the two singles spots would be a problem. Now he feels that everyone is beginning to come into their own, as far as this season is concerned. "We have been playing five freshmen regularly and now they are maturing," Frank added. "This is certainly a mental boost as we move toward the tournament."

The win over Pfeiffer was certainly a big boost for the Cats after the Furman setback, especially with the Mountaineers, rated as the top team in the conference. "I think the win came at the right time and I hope we can keep up the steam as we move into the final week of play," said Frank.

The other winners against Pfeiffer included Chip Bondurant at the second singles as he stopped Richard Hartley 6-2, 6-2. John Mitchell won in the third singles, beating Gary Peterson, 6-1, 6-0. Stuart Boswell had an easy time at the fourth slot, clobbering John Gaye, 6-1, 6-1. Brian Cooper took the fifth singles with a 6-3, 6-1 win over Steve Brown, as Steve Johnson topped John Malcolm 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, at number six to complete the sweep for the singles.

In doubles action, Greg Dunn teamed with Mitchell to grab the victory at the number one slot by a score of 7-6, 6-3 over Hartley and Wright. Steve Holan and Cooper combined for the victory in the next spot over Brown and Gaye, 6-0, 6-1, while Charlie Slagle and Johnson ended the slaughter with a 6-1, 6-3 victory over Peterson and Malcolm.

The Cats now stand at 10-7 on the year with a match tomorrow against VMI at home. They will conclude the season, except for the conference tournament, with a home match on Monday against South Carolina and a final conference battle at The Citadel on Wednesday. The Bulldogs will also host the conference tourney, which will begin on Thursday, April 24.

Frank still maintains some optimism for the tournament, especially considering that it will be played on clay courts. "Right now we would probably be rated as tied for third with Richmond and William and Mary," Frank commented. "But a couple of years ago we were the top-rated team and everyone gunned for us. I guess the tables are turned, and it will be up to us."

---

Wimps of Wooton (an appropriately named team) to a loss. The Pika volleyball team is faring better than its softball counterpart by being only four games back.

Now, for all you economics students, Dr. Nelson missed a writ last week in Eco 102. The writ deals with Modern Economics. Question: What area has the worst depression in the U.S.? Answer: Watts

---

TENNIS

Last Monday, April 21 vs. South Carolina. Conference tournament begins April 24 at The Citadel. Home match.