the davidsonian

October 3, 1975

——

Horn finishes first for Cats

Cross country takes third, seasonal record dips to 3-2

By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

The Davidson cross country team finished third in a four-way mini-conference meet held here last Saturday morning.

Richmond edged Appalachian for first, with Davidson in third, four points ahead of East Carolina. Scoring the meet as duals, the results were the same. The Wildcats trailed Richmond 16-42 and Appalachian 17-39, while beating ECU 26-29. The meet left Davidson 2-3 for the season.

“That’s the first time we’ve ever beaten ECU,” Coach Sterling Martin commented.

“It was our first race of the year at six miles, and I thought the team did pretty well,” he added.

Freshman Doug Horn finished first for the Wildcats, placing eighth overall in 33:25. “Horn ran exceptionally well,” said Martin. “He looked strong the whole way,” added one of the runners.

Coty Pinckney was next for Davidson, running 34:19 for 14th place overall. Fred Borch was right behind, sprinting to the finish just one second off Pinckney. John Barksdale and Zack Murrell rounded out the ‘Cats’ top five, with respective times of 34:29 and 35:02.

The times did not compare well with those from past meets. Pinckney’s time was more than two minutes over his best from last year, while the fifth man on last year’s team ran 34:17, 45 seconds ahead of Murrell’s pace.

“I think we may be stronger as a team this year, at least in the first five places,” Martin commented. “But we’re definitely weaker in depth. Our sixth man was almost two minutes behind our fifth,” he explained.

The same men have finished in the top five for Davidson in all four meets thus far. Senior co-captain Bill Cole finished sixth in the last meet, and should be challenging for a scoring spot in the next several weeks, according to Martin.

The Wildcats travel to Laurinburg this weekend for an eight-team meet which includes Pembroke, Campbell, Lynchburg, and host St. Andrews. “Pembroke is a powerhouse, and Lynchburg could be tough,” Martin noted.

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

The Davidson club football team opened its season with a hard-fought 22-6 loss to UNC last Friday evening at Chapel Hill.

As usual, the Cats matched sporadic offense with aggressive defense, ending with a losing combination.

The Tar Heels struck early on a 65-yard scoring drive late in the first quarter, as the more experienced team managed to wear down and capitalize on a relatively inexperienced defensive line.

The Cat defense redeemed itself later by blocking a punt and rookie senior Alan Duncan scooped the ball up for Davidson’s lone tally.

Quarterback Mark Firth had an admirable performance, while spending much of the first half on the Astro Turf. Running backs Bob Bishop and Phil Oblinger started with quick bursts. But gradually the UNC defense slowed them with aggressive line play.

The defense missed seniors George Loy and fiercesome Chris (Krisna) Perkins, who were absent due to trouble. Despite the efforts of the Tar Heel coaching staff, the two were able to get in the last three series of the game, but had no effect on the game’s outcome.

Cats drop pair

(Continued from page 8)

Heels for the first period and most of the second, but with less than three minutes left, North Carolina finally pushed one into the net.

“We played a fine game against a very tough team,” said Stone, “and I think we were mentally down for the N.C. State game.”

In the State game on Monday, the Wildcats could muster very little offense, losing 2-0. As usual, the defense turned in a sterling performance.

Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service

The game was scoreless most of the way, with neither team looking particularly impressive on offense.

Stone was understandably disappointed with the team’s performance, but expressed optimism for the future.

“We've played some very tough teams, but that’s what we wanted to do,” he said. “All of the games could have gone either way. I am glad we have a week to reorganize before our next game.”

The ‘Cats will entertain Campbell College on Tuesday.

Down court — a4

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Prescriptions Filled 206 N. Main

AAAM - 7:30 PM MON-WED. Glasses Repaired
VAAM - 1:00 AM THU-SAT. Glasses Adjusted Ph. 663-3942
12 NOON - 10:00 PM SUNDAY Sunglasses Mooresville