Four The Davidsonian April 24, 1975

Guides freely

By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

Each week of the school year, prospective students come to Davidson to be interviewed by the admissions staff and to look around the campus. Davidson students serve as tour guides for these prospective students and their parents. To an extent, the applicants’ first impression of Davidson is seen through these hosts' and hostesses' eyes.

What do the guides stress as they show guests around campus? How do they answer potentially sensitive questions that the students or their parents may ask? How do the guides fit into the scheme of admissions at Davidson? Three Davidson students who work as guides and/or hosts and hostesses related their answers to these questions. The following interviews with Junior Bob Hoag, Sophomore Dana English, and Freshman Sam Weir indicate the wide variety of perspectives a prospective student and his parents may gain from a day at Davidson.

Bob Hoag:
Hoag works as a volunteer for the admissions office and has about one guide assignment per week. The tour begins usually after the student has been interviewed by someone from the admissions staff and lasts between 35 and 40 minutes.

Informal view
Hoag begins by showing the student and his parents the buildings on campus—educational facilities and dorms. “I try to give an informal view of the whole thing. If a student has a special interest, I concentrate longer on this,” he said. For instance, if a student is interested in Davidson’s pre-med program, Hoag spends some extra time showing him the laboratory facilities and other things that might interest him particularly.

The parents usually are the most inquisitive. “Parents ask most of the questions; most of my stuff is directed toward the parents. Students ask questions like how much they’ll have to study,” Hoag commented. Although the parents and students ask a variety of questions, many of them deal with the social situation on campus. Status of fraternities, weekend activities, and the proximity of shopping centers are common questions.

Controversial questions
Sometimes, however, a controversial question arises. Hoag commented, “Parents may see an issue in The Davidsonian such as tenure and ask about it. Most of the time I’ll state the issue, but I don’t dwell too long on my opinion. About 90 percent of the time they ask my opinion about the issue.”

Other subjects that come up during the tours concern the chemistry facilities, religious life at Davidson, and the use of drugs by students. Hoag admits that the chemistry building is not the “most desirable in the world.” However, he feels the number of pre-med applicants accepted in graduate schools shows that Davidson’s facilities must be of good quality. Also, he tells students that the chemistry facilities are a top priority concern of the administration. Hoag cautions that chemistry students are overcrowded, but he thinks that the staggered lab periods and the availability of professors help ease the overcrowding somewhat.

Church ties
“Because Davidson was founded and is supported in part by the Presbyterian church, a common question concerns the status of church ties to the school. Hoag tells them, “The religious aspect is here if you want it, but it’s certainly not forced.”

Parents often ask about drugs on campus. Hoag reminds them that drugs are a part of the world and that Davidson has its share. “It’s here, but you have to look for it to find it,” he remarked. Hoag tells guests that most drugs are confined to pot, although he has seen some students popping pills. He tells them that only about 10 percent of the student body partakes.

Southern students
According to Hoag, most of the prospective students he sees come from the Southern and Mid-Atlantic states. “I can’t remember anyone from north of Maryland,” he said.

Dana English:
“I like it a lot if the student will talk to me more than the parents will,” commented English. She worked for the admissions office as a volunteer during fall and winter terms this year. “I try to address most of my answers to the student even if the parents ask the questions,” she added.

English tries to give a background to her guests. “I love the history of the college,” she said. English usually begins her tour at the quadrangle of the old campus and makes a special effort to point out the literary buildings.

Frank about inadequacies
“I’m pretty frank about what I don’t like or what is not adequate,” English remarked. Some subjects she makes a point to mention to parents and prospective students concern the status of co-education, Union facilities, housing, and academics. “There aren’t too many questions I don’t feel free to discuss,” she added.

English tells students that, although Davidson has made the transition to coeducation smoothly, the physical education facilities for women are not adequate. Her tour does not include the Union. “It’s not representative of where the students go on campus,” she commented. English explains why she thinks the Union is not adequate for students’ needs and tells the prospective students about improvements being made.Made in the new Union.

Inner world
In order to let students and parents see the inner world of Davidson as well as academic facilities, English takes the guests into the dorm and shows them a couple of rooms, including her own. Also, she tries to let them meet a professor or two. When students ask about social life on campus, English describes a typical weekend and lets the guests talk with some men as well as women students. She explains, “The campus is pretty fraternity-oriented and pretty informal. There are lots of activities for freshmen, but you have to work at getting to know upperclassmen.”

Academic pressure
Concerning academic pressure, English tells the students, “There is a lot of pressure. I say that most people around here don’t take the whole weekend off, especially in the fall or winter terms.” 

“I get many questions about religious life on campus. I tell them I think the church has a lot of service-type activities for people to get in.” At this time, English sees the church as more of a driving social force than the YMCA, but she admits that this is changing.

Issues
She is displeased with the administration’s handling of the housing situation on campus. English said that she points out to students and their parents that the College has not made any efforts to stabilize the enrollment even though opportunities for increased housing have not been made. “Professors are really accessible. I feel like there’s a lot of interpersonal relationships between students and faculty members,” English remarked.

Sam Weir
Weir takes students and their parents to lunch for the admissions office. Sometimes they have had tours around campus, but other times he just gives them a quick tour before lunch. “I try to show students that Davidson is made up of real people and is not just a catalogue. I emphasize the friendliness on campus,” Weir commented. He stresses the honor code and its relation to unlocked rooms, coed dorms, tests, and self-scheduled exams. Also, Weir makes a point to mention the size of the College and how this affects social relationships.

Prospective students never mentioned their admissions interviews or applications to Hoag, English, or Weir. All three guides praised the admissions office. They said that the staff told them at the beginning of the year not to be overcritical or overenthusiastic either—rather, they should be honest with the students and their parents.

YM/YWCA founds coordinating forum
By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

YM/YWCA President Susan Cunningham has begun organizing the Inter-Organizational Forum to deal with the problems caused by the myriad student organizations on campus. The organization will consist of two representatives each from the Black Student Coalition, The Davidsonian, the Patterson Court Council, the SGA Senate, the College Union, and the YM/YWCA. Cunningham feels that this will benefit Davidson students by solving problems which arise when responsibility for organizing and funding student projects and activities becomes blurred due to the large number of student organizations.

“The Forum would be an organization of organizations,” said Cunningham. “It will be a discussion group where the leaders of student organizations at Davidson get together to assess each other’s problems. The Forum will help groups work together to solve problems and accomplish goals.”

The Forum will meet weekly to coordinate the various projects which different groups have going on campus, and possibly take over some of the funding of the projects. Cunningham cited three examples of situations in which such an organization of organizations would be helpful. When Ron Scott was making his decisions about the changes on food services for the rest of the year (price increases, closing Rusk House, etc.), he could have come to the Forum to get student views and ideas on his proposed changes. Any administrator who wanted a range of student ideas on a problem could come to the Forum for information, instead of going first to the YM/YWCA, then to the SGA, and then to the Union. Finally, since the Forum has representatives from Patterson Court Council, the group could eliminate scheduling conflicts which arise when the Union and fraternities plan activities for the same night.

Donations requested for Schoolhouse Fair
The Children’s Schoolhouse Attic Sale and Fair will be held between 9 a.m. and ? p.m. on Saturday, May 3, on the Davidson Village Green. Students wishing to rid themselves of any usable clothing, books, records, plants, or household goods are invited to donate them to the rummage sale. Donations should be made at Dr. Ligo’s office in the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. If pickup service from dorm or apartment is necessary, call Nancy Hazel at 892-1379. Proceeds from the sale and fair will go to the Children’s Schoolhouse, a multi-age, parent cooperative preschool in Cornelius. The fair will also include a baked goods sale, a raffle, prizes for which include Carowinds tickets, a dinner for two at Gus’ Forty-Niner, and gift certificates from local shops—a children’s fun fair, and refreshments. UNC-C commercial art students will be offering some of their work for sale.