Eight The Davidsonian March 13, 1975

Jimmy the Freek

Cincy Reds Lead Boys of Spring

From a 10-day vacation in Florida, this baseball picker feels he has a good spring training angle on the upcoming
baseball season. This is not to say that I spent my whole break going from camp to camp. However, I
do know that two Davidson sports nuts named Paul Banta and Alan Edmonds did precisely that, and their comments and
insights help comprise this particular article:

NL EAST

Philadelphia Phillies—Any team that won’t trade Alan Bannister for Dick Allen deserves last place in management. However, if the Phillies'
infield is as strong as last year and the pitching isn’t too much of a question mark, then they have
our vote for first place. With Allen, it’s a shoo-in.

Pittsburgh Pirates—AE comments, “They look a little too fat and too slow for me. Willie Stargell hit the fried chicken
hard in the off-season!” The Pirates are one of the weakest teams up the middle, but they can hit the
hell out of the ball. Regardless of whether Steve Blass hits 22 batters in exhibitions, they’re a solid second.

St. Louis Cardinals—Put third for lack of interest and lack of team.

New York Mets—Any team that attempts to field Joe Torre, John Milner, and Dave Kingman at once can’t be that
sane. Realizing their situation, they quit practice early every day. Fourth.

Montreal Expos—The only positive thing is that they will definitely lose at a slower rate than the team below. Fifth.

Chicago Cubs—Phil Wrigley runs this club just like his gum company—chewed up and spit out. They’ll be lucky to win
60 games. Dead last.

NL WEST

Cincinnati Reds—Position by position, we give them the edge over L.A. This team appears real loose and has the best
team up the middle in the majors with Bench, Concepcion, Morgan, and Geronimo. Bench’s hitting could be affected by his
writer’s cramp he acquired in the winter by writing bad checks and other autographs. A close first.

Los Angeles Dodgers—Holdouts and injuries make their pitching suspect as is their infield defense. Also appear loose and confident but
predicted for second. If pitching comes around, watch out Cincy.

Atlanta Braves—If they get a good year out of Darrell Evans and pick up a decent pitcher for Dick Allen,
while the rest of the staff stays consistent, we see the Braves as a longshot for the division title. A
BIG IF; but a competitive third.

Houston Astros—PB, a long-time Astro fan, picks them here at fourth but wishes they were last after viewing them at
Cocoa. Checked for pistols as they entered, they were impressed with Cesar Cedeno, who is well-armed in more ways than
one. The most over-rated 81-81 team in baseball. Picked a disappointing fourth.

San Francisco Giants—They have improved their defense by putting a stack of $100,000 at third in place of Dave Kingman.
Hopefully, a few thousand will come see them finish fifth this year.

San Diego Padres—The other teams in this division “deserve a break today,” and this is it. We hope the Padre
outfielders don’t strain their eyes following the golden arches of opposition home runs. Fans get

(Photo by Pete Goodman)

Roll Over, Jimmy Connors

Rick Quinby beat Fritz Valentine of Purdue 6-3, 6-7 in the number one singles match. Davidson then went on to
win the overall contest by a score of 5-3. Rain canceled Wednesday's match with Rochester.their own version of the “Big
Mac” (Willie McCovey), but that’s about all.

Sixth.

NL Pennant—Reds over L.A. and Philly
NL Average—Ralph Garr over Pete Rose.
NL Home Runs—Dick Allen if he plays; if not Johnny Bench.
NL Wins—Seaver in a big comeback.
NL Strikeouts—Steve Carlton edges out over Seaver.

AL EAST

New York Yankees—Deep in pitching all the way to Whitey Ford. “Catfish” hustling for his money and the other players
want some too. He brought a communicable disease with him from the A’s—winning. Yanks as loose and confident as Reds
and Dodgers. Pinstripes all the way in the East.

Baltimore Orioles—Fairly solid, but too bad in the same division with N.Y. Lee May needs a super year if the
Birds are to be close. We see them 5-10 games back in second.

Boston Red Sox—Because they have traded so much with the Cardinals of late, the earlier comments on the Redbirds hold
here too. Put in the first division because of pick by Hilton Oliver. Third.

Milwaukee Brewers—Only Hank Aaron saves this team from oblivion. No more 18-year-old shortstops. A dull fourth.

Cleveland Indians—Best DH’s in the league with Frank Robinson, John Ellis, and Oscar “Bush” Gamble. No matter how bad they
play, they'll still finish above Detroit. Fifth.

Detroit Tigers—I bet you didn’t think there would ever be a team like the ’62 Mets. This team might make
it into double figures in the win column because of the presence of Joe Coleman. A triple-figure loser for sure.
Lucky to finish the season. Boring and by far the worst team in baseball. Hoping for LeFlore to steal, but
only on basepaths. A good match for Davidson and solid 1-5 shot for last.

AL WEST

Oakland Athletics—This team has real problems—finding a place for Billy Williams to play. Lacking stopper due to exit of the
fish. Bando should go undefeated in the heavyweight ranks with Bill North rated as a tough middleweight. Undoubtedly, still the
class of baseball. Solid first.

Texas Rangers—Billy Martin has to pull another miracle for them to stay close. All the players had great years and
will be hard to repeat. Because of lack of competition placed second.

Minnesota Twins—Believe it or not, these guys had a winning record last year. Even with Carew and Blyleven, they are
a good cure for insomnia. Third.

Kansas City Royals, California Angels, and Chicago White Sox—Inseparable! The Three Stooges of Major League Baseball. Eliminated from baseball completely
if it weren’t for Amos Otis, Nolan Ryan, and Wilbur Wood. Your choice as a field entry for fourth, fifth,
and sixth.

AL Pennant—Oakland over New York
AL Average—Rod Carew with no competition
AL Home Runs—Reggie Jackson over Bobby Bonds
AL RBI’s—Ditto
AL Wins—Hunter over Ferguson Jenkins
AL Strikeouts—If you can’t pick this category, you shouldn’t be reading this column!

WORLD SERIES (Yes already)—Oakland over the Reds in 5 games.
