February 12, 1975
The Davidsonian

My Answer - By Rush Otey Dean of Students

I have heard through the campus grapevine that you’re doing some funny things with water these days. But I’m not
interested in that. What I really want to know, Rush, is whether you’re planning to move in next door to
Diane Stone next year. Come on, give, Rush. Are you going to be our next dean?

Many students have asked me why I have accepted the position as Dean of Students next year. Although I realize
this must be puzzling to some of you, especially you, Will, it really was not at all a hasty action.
Although God just let me in on it yesterday, he informed me that he has been predestining this for quite
some time. He led me out of seminary to come up through the farm system here for deans. I understand
Will is going to be offered a new position. I have no idea what position that will be, but I
understand Dean Burts is considering spending a lot of time with his two new grandsons as a matter of course.
There may be an opening somewhere around drop/add time. I’m tired of being cooped up in the church playing second
guitar to John Rogers, anyway. I’m really looking forward to something that’s a bit more secular. My new office is
a bit small, but I think I can make it comfortable. I still haven’t figured out where I’m going to
put my pulpit though.

Patterson Axes Master Race, Uncle Jerry Lauds President

To the Editor:

During World War II, I knew a Volkswagen repairman who, no matter what the subject was, would inevitably end up
talking about Gott and heroes. It seemed he knew Him and His political party. One day the battery commander told
him to talk about camaraderie on the Toyota assembly line. He knew about economy in speaking as well as economy
in small cars. His lecture only took a few minutes, and the major portion of his presentation was spoken in
tongues, with half wit and audacity, a modicum of poor taste, and even a moderate sprinkling of name dropping. Most
of the people weren't taken in by his gibberish, preferring to believe in the divine spark plug within us all
rather than in the champion Nazi plug.

Those were the days when a man in Germany had to be a linguist and preferably free of Semitic compassion
if he wanted to be regarded as a superhuman intellectual of the past.

Jimmie Olson

Claxton, Kennedy In ’76

I responded to a call from the Editor-in-chief. I found him sleeping in a file cabinet, third drawer from the
bottom.

“You sent for me, Chief?”

“Yeah, Everside. We are planning a big issue and want a political interview. They say that Stoop Claxton, the Senator
from the District of Columbia, will talk to anyone. I’m thinking of sending you. Can you handle it?”

“Chief, I’ve handled them all.”

“Listen, Everside, you’ve been with the paper longer than anyone. I’ve heard of five-year men, but you’re ridiculous. How do
you stay in?”

“Well, Dr. Spencer and I were pen-pals at Sandhurst.”

“I didn’t know Dr. Spencer went to Sandhurst.”

“We Sandies don’t like to brag. Sir, I appreciate the assignment.”

Then he pulled a Jung’s Chinese Laundry slip from his pocket and ripped off the part that said “press.”

“Here, put this in your hat brim. Go get them fella.”

He put a paternal hand on my nose and pushed me backwards through the door. I picked myself up, ran
down the stairs, jumped on my Schwinn, and was at the Hub in 10 seconds. I had Ralph give me
a Greyhound ticket for Washington.

Once on the Greyhound, the thrill of the story was on me. This was probably the biggest since Will Terry
was christened. Of course, there were the old days, riding on the running boards of an ambulance. Boy, the first
couple of months after they stopped putting running boards on ambulances was rough on my shins. But that’s life without
a change? Now I was going to meet a biggie, Senator Stoop Claxton.

Senator Stoop Claxton stood in his office. The scene was impressive even to this seasoned reporter. On one wall, there
was a 30-foot mural of the Boeing Aircraft Plant. On another wall was a list of questions from General Curtis
LeMay. In the center of the room was a 90-foot tall bomb. On its side was written: “Ruskies adopt a
humanitarian attitude toward Jews or else.”

The Senator spoke first. “Ah, yes, you’re the reporter from The Davidsonian. My able staff has given me data on
your paper, most impressive. When may I expect an endorsement for my unannounced candidacy?”

“Well, that depends on how you answer some of the questions I have for you. Are you ready?”

“Senator, some people believe we have as much right to dictate Russian treatment of Jews as they do our treatment
of Indians. How do you feel about that?”

“Well, the American people are dedicated to seeing all human beings fairly treated.”

“Yes... is that all you have to say?”

“You can quote me. Anything else?”

“Senator, since you have blitzed détente, perhaps it would be better to choose another area of discussion. Tell me, why
did you vote on the Health Bill to limit the amounts of all vitamins sold without prescription except Vitamin B-172?”

“The American people need B-1. It will be the backbone of our defense. Itwill employ half the nation’s workforce just
to build one. That’s important in these times of drastic economic difficulty.”

“Senator, you have said ‘George Wallace, Rabbi Korff, Norman Vincent Peale, Ted Kennedy, Mamie Eisenhower, and Alice Cooper would all
be worth your consideration as a Vice Presidential running mate. Some people think you are using this as a device
to round up support for your candidacy. Is this true?”

“Nothing of the sort. Say, have you ever thought of your name becoming a household word?”

“Uh, well, Senator.”

“Thanks for coming. Appreciate the endorsement.”

That was that. I made a few other visits around the Capitol picking valuable information and went back to the
intellectual center of North Cornelius. I raced up to the office, pulled open the file drawer and shouted, “I’ve got
it, Chief, the scoop of the year. Besides that, I’ve uncovered that Jack Bevan is a CIA plant and that
his real name is Toshiro Mifune.”

—cannot hold.

LETTERG

As we know, that was four score amnesties and seven moratoriums ago. Today Germany is desolate because all those people
have flocked to small liberal arts colleges to teach their native language. The new generation is a little younger, a
little wiser. Different as these generations might be at first glance, you can get a lot of mileage out of
trite comparisons. At any rate, the major thing they have in common is that they believe they have all the
answers in their small economy minds to the questions they find along the road of life. Thus it does not
surprise me that doctor noster imposter Wruck has a solution for the fear and loathing in the Davidson disintegration society.
And nobody except Germans could be so shortsighted (not to mention people at the other three corners of this flat
earth who’ve never heard of the Luftwaffe or seen a swastika). No, Dr. Wruck, if you want to show little
folk the yellow brick road, mention the Good Book, and that is not “Mein Kampf.” Good riddance, non-lughead wrench your
neck detestari, e.p. thorn in my side, sad intelli geri.

Earnest Patterson
Professor of Economics
Marburg of the South

To the Editor:

I was truly embarrassed to be caught with my pants down by the Quips & Cranks’ photographer. I have been
filled with regrets and deep-seated emotions, but I hope you will excuse one whose hindsight has always been better than
his foresight. As everyone can see, I have come clean and the bullshit has stopped.

Eric Walker

To the Editor:

This letter is written in response to the last three years of the Davidsonian. The pictures are terrible. Don’t any
of you idiots have any sense of art? Thursday upon Thursday I have been deluged with enough of the stuff
to cause violent indigestion. Those basketball pictures, for instance: why don’t the players ever smile? I’m sure that if your
photographer tried, he could get them to cooperate. Perhaps it would help if he met them before the game with
a tube of Crest.

Thinking of basketball brings something else to mind. None of you people realize that some pictures just don’t make it
as you crop them. As an example, you clowns would probably make a pic of the Empire State Building a
horizontal. On a different plane, I bet you would even run a picture of a bulldozer in the middle of
a football field as a vertical. In conclusion, maybe the whole thing is beyond hope. Your best bet might be
to get rid of those lousy photographers, especially the guy who doesn’t know better than to take horizontal basketball pictures.

Snake, ’76
Davidson College

Pensive Poets Write Rhapsodies In Blue

Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered weak and weary I sought a theme and sought for it in
vain. Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day out of the hills of Habersham? The fog comes on little
cat feet. It is an Ancient Mariner. Midway along the journey of our life on the shore of the wide
world I stand alone and think. The sea is calm tonight. Flood tide below me I see you face to
face. I shall wear the bottom of my trousers rolled. (Some say the earth will end in fire. The world
is too much with us.) Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold. Two roads diverged in a yellow wood. Whose
woods these are I think I know. Little Lamb, who made thee? Let us go then you and I. I
measure time by how a body sways. I placed a jar in Tennessee. I am a little world made cunningly.
Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker. I taste a liquor never brewed. Brought death into the world and all
our woe. Hence vain deluding joys. Miniver coughed and called it fate and kept on drinking. Go, for they call
you, shepherd, from the hill. Do not go gentle into that good night. Arms and the man I sing. If
winter comes can spring be far behind? In Xanadu did Kubla Khan when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom’d.

Letters

We reject the childish, incoherent bits of garbage that you have previously submitted as “Letters to the Editor.” We reserve
the right to publish only those letters published previously in literary journals. All letters must be typed, preferably in blank
verse or Homeric epics. Letters criticizing The Davidsonian will not be published. Keep your rag letters to yourself.
