January 30, 1975

The Davidsonian

Eleven Swimming Team Creates Bright Future

By BILL LLOYD
Staff Writer

“With a lot of hard work and recruiting I am confident that Davidson will be able to compete successfully in the Southern Conference,” said first-year swimming coach Pat Drake. Drake, who spent five years at the University of South Carolina doing undergraduate and graduate work, is no stranger to athletics. “Although the woman’s athletic program at USC was not very well developed I did play a lot of tennis, volleyball, and of course swim,” said Drake.

A native of Greenville, South Carolina, Drake gained her coaching experience at Potsdam State College in Potsdam, New York before taking over the swimming program at Davidson. Commenting on this year’s team Drake explained, “There have already been improvements in several of the swimmer’s times over some of their times last year. Hopefully this trend will continue.”

Davidson’s swimming team was split at 2-2 going into the meet against UNC-Asheville Tuesday. Aiding Miss Drake is diving coach Dave Mosure, coaching Davidson’s two capable divers Ted Mumby and Eric Vernon. “Our divers were responsible for our win over Augusta College last week, especially sophomore Ted Mumby,” said Drake. “Ted works out hard every day on the board and we expect a lot out of him,” added Drake.

Coach Drake was most optimistic about Davidson’s future, especially in view of several outstanding freshmen swimmers. “Freshman Jonathan Washburn has improved 12 seconds on his breaststroke and 13 seconds on his individual medley,” said Drake. “We are also pleased with the performances of freshman Marshal Brown who swims the butterfly and Mike Knowles who is an excellent freestyler,” Drake said.

There are 19 members on the team which according to Drake is relatively large for a school the size of Davidson. The two girl members of the swimming team are Kathryn Bridges and Susan Reid. According to Drake, “The girls are still improving, but they do swim in competition with the boys and there is a psychological element involved.” Some of the experienced upperclassmen form the core of the team.

“If Davidson is going to keep up with the other Southern Conference teams, the program will have to be intensified. Recruiting, though there are no scholarships, is already being stepped up,” said Coach Pat Drake.

Areas of specialization include regeneration, neurocytology, sensory neurophysiology, female reproductive biology, control of vertebrate morphogenesis, hormonal control of electrolytes, and compensatory growth mechanisms. Non-Federal monies for stipend and research support of qualified applicants are available. Applications requesting financial aid must be received by March 15, 1975. The department seeks to fill open positions in the program. Write to:

Robert A. Finch, Ph.D.
Dept A
Departmental Graduate Advisor
Department of Anatomy
Bowman Gray School of Medicine
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27103

Biomedical Research and Education

The Department of Anatomy of the Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake Forest University offers graduate training leading to the Ph.D. and to career opportunities in teaching and research in the Biomedical Sciences.

“Everyone loves a lover! Show your loved ones you care with Hallmark cards and gifts for Valentine's Day, Friday, Feb. 14: They'll love you for it.”strongest part of the team. “Senior John Scholler is our most effective distance swimmer. We rely on him for the sprint events,” explained Coach Drake. “It is going to take a lot of work to compete with some of the teams that we are going up against for the remainder of the season,” Drake said. Davidson will swim against Furman, VMI, Appalachian State, Georgia Southern, and Duke. Drake added, “Junior Jack Doscher swims a good backstroke and he has recently started to improve on his time.”

The swimming team practices six days a week, two hours a day. “I think we will have our best chances against Furman while Georgia Southern and Duke will be our toughest meets,” predicted Drake. “Performances thus far this season have been up and down, with Doscher and Washburn as well as divers Mumby and Vernon performing most consistently,” reflected Drake.

Davidson competed against Georgia Tech and Emory over the Mid-Winters weekend. Davidson got their hoped-for decisive win over Emory but was unable to defeat the excellent Tech team. “If Davidson is going to keep up with the other Southern Conference teams, the swimming program will have to be intensified. Recruiting, though there are no scholarships, is already being stepped up and several good swimmers are now being sought,” explained Drake.

Drake is pleased with the interest that has been shown in swimming both as a team sport and for pleasure. “Several faculty members and their wives swim frequently. It really is good exercise,” said Drake.

Not all swimmers on the team have had a great deal of swimming experience. “Such members as Ralph Taylor, Cal Morton, and Steve Barnes had not swum competitively until they came to college,” observed Drake.

In her first year as a coach at Davidson, Drake has had full cooperation from the athletic department. “People have been really helpful to me here; they’ve given me everything that I have asked for,” added Drake. “I am enjoying coaching here at Davidson.”

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
137 N. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036

HATTIE’S
Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD
Counselor Opportunities - Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop to his or her fullest potential should apply. Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an A.C.A. accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in an excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 264, Clover, S.C. 29710.