January 23, 1975

(Photo by Goodman)

Donna Sherrill shoots from the top of the key as Renee Soos moves toward the basket.

Matmen Overturned by W&L

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The wrestling team saw its dual meet record slip to 1-2 last weekend. The wrestlers dropped a 29-13 decision to
the Washington and Lee Generals.

Both teams were evenly matched, for the teams mainly consisted of underclassmen. Out of the twenty wrestlers that suited up,
only four were upperclassmen.

Mike Dosal did not get untracked until the third period of his 118 lb. bout. Dosal finished strong but still
lost an 8-4 decision. Brian Jacobs started fast and finished early in his match. Jacobs pinned his opponent in the
third period.

Glenn Ballard jumped out to a 4-0 lead in his match at 134, but then his experienced foe came back
to take a 7-6 decision for the contest.

Captain Bob Jacobs ran his season’s record to 5-1 with a superior decision in the 142 lb. class. Jacobs won
13-3 and this was good for 4 team points. Davidson now led 10-6 in the match.

In the 150 lb. weight class, Mark Scandling picked up a 15-6 decision. This win upped Scandling’s record to 6-0.

Bob Price wrestled an undefeated W&L wrestler in the 158 lb. class. Price stayed even until the third period when
his opponent pulled away for an 8-2 decision.

Ralph Holloway lost a 13-6 decision in the 167 lb. match. W&L now closed to within two points of Davidson.
The team score was 13-11.

Mike Smith wrestled for Davidson in the 177 lb. match against W&L’s captain. Mike was pinned, and W&L took the
lead in the match.

Bob Bennet was pinned in the 190 lb. match and the match was over, for Davidson’s heavyweight Jack Summe was
out with the flu and the Wildcats had to forfeit at heavyweight.

The wrestling team will spend its Midwinters weekend in the confines of VMI. The team travels to Lexington to wrestle
VMI, The Citadel, and Lynchburg College on Saturday afternoon.

Need Money?

The Davidsonian needs typists to set copy on our offset press computer. We pay $2.00 an hour, and the hours
are fairly flexible. Apply at The Davidsonian offices, upstairs in the College Union.

Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
206 N. Main
Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville

- Prescriptions Filled
- Glasses Repaired
- Glasses Adjusted
- Sunglasses

The Davidsonian

By DAVE KITCHIN and CLIFF GARDINER
Staff Writers

After having their four-game winning streak snapped Jan. 17 by Anderson Junior College, the Davidson Wildkittens rebounded for two home
basketball victories.

A close win over N.C. State on Jan. 20 preceded a Jan. 22 victory over Wake Forest’s women’s team.

Anderson Junior College, which has long emphasized women’s sports, demolished the Wildkittens 81-54.

Coaches Joe Duncan and Charlie Slagle were quick to commend the Davidson women for their play on the Anderson team’s
home court. But, as one of the Anderson players best summed up the situation, “We are a buzzsaw of a
good team.”

Anderson was the national championship women’s team among junior colleges last year. The Davidson women were leading Anderson at an
early point in the game, when guard Renee Soos was removed from the action because of a mouth injury and
forward Nancy Matheny was benched due to foul trouble.

Davidson pulled ahead of N.C. State late in that encounter for a 64-59 win. The contest, marked by numerous lead
changes, was conspicuously physical.

One N.C. State player remarked that Davidson was one of the roughest teams that they have ever played.

A grinning Charlie Slagle praised his team highly after their 70-62 defeat of Wake Forest Wednesday night.

“We showed a lot of guts coming back to win the way we did. I think Nora McNeill’s ball-handling was
especially effective in bringing us out of our first-half slump.”

Duncan echoed Slagle’s praise of McNeill and also pointed out that Katherine Morton, who had 15 rebounds, played an integral
role in denying Wake Forest the victory.

Renee Soos led all scorers with 20 points.

Davidson has been plagued with injuries and illness for the last two games.

In addition to Renee Soos’ mouth injury, Nancy Matheny dislocated a finger while throwing the ball up in the air
and attempting a behind-the-back catch before a practice session.

Dea Booth is suffering from tendonitis in her knee, while several other players are recuperating from the flu.

The next contest for the Wildkittens will be in Johnston Gym Jan. 27, when they will oppose Catawba College.

Wildcats Sign New Jersey Standout

Davidson basketball coach Bo Brickels has announced the recruitment of New Jersey standout John Gerdy, a signing that promises to
bolster the Wildcats’ program in the future.

Gerdy, a 6-4 guard for Passaic Valley High in Little Falls, N.J., is averaging 34.2 points and his team is
9-0. He has been a starter for Passaic since his freshman year.

CURE “TERM PAPER FRIGHT” - ERRORITE™

AT YOUR CAMPUS STORE
