the Davidsonian  
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036  
Vol. LXV, No. ONE  
September 19, 1975  

Delmar expresses doubts about yearbook publication  
By BRAD SWALWELL  
Staff Writer  

The 1974-75 edition of the Davidson College yearbook, Quips and Cranks, is not scheduled for distribution anytime in the near future, according to a spokesman for the Delmar Printing Company. The spokesman for the Delmar Company, which prints Quips and Cranks, stated that the company had not received very much of the yearbook material. 

“What we have is a very insignificant portion of the material for the annual,” said the Delmar official. The company spokesman said that the company had not contacted the yearbook editor Carroll Ensley about the missing material. However, College Business Manager Robert Currie was contacted by the printing company. 

“Delmar will let me know when the rest of the material arrives,” said Currie. Currie wrote Ensley, a 1975 Davidson graduate, a letter during the summer. Ensley did not respond to Currie’s letter. 

Peter Goodman, staff photographer for Quips and Cranks, who still has many pictures in his possession for the missing volume, explained the problem. “Carroll (Ensley) had a lot of ideas for the yearbook, but he wanted to keep the production of the book flexible. He felt that structuring the production would kill some of the creativity of the yearbook.” 

“To keep the production process flexible, Carroll did not appoint a photography editor. He also delayed the appointment of editors for the various sections of the book, such as faculty, students, sports, and so forth, until he had assessed the creativity of each of his staff members,” continued Goodman. “Consequently, with all the flexibility, combined with the Davidson students’ apathy, nobody did anything,” said Goodman. 

Goodman went on to outline some of the problems the yearbook staff encountered last year. Some of the editors of the various sections did not know until the second or third week in March how many pages their particular section would have. “The photography assignments were not made until the second week in April. For months before I could not find out anything about what kind of pictures Carroll wanted. All of a sudden, I got my assignment and he wanted them within three days,” Goodman said. 

Goodman attempted to telephone Ensley this summer to tell him that the pictures were ready, only to find that Ensley had moved. “I mailed him a Special Delivery letter at his new Washington address.” He never answered, so I assumed that the address I had was wrong. “Rather than send all my pictures to an uncertain address, I kept them until this fall,” said Goodman. 

Goodman outlined the procedures he would follow this fall to get the pictures to Ensley. Within the week, Goodman will get his pictures to Frazier Marsh, who has been in contact with Ensley. Marsh will get the material to Ensley. 

The spokesman for the Delmar Printing Company would not speculate as to how long it would take to get the yearbook ready for delivery once they had all the material. Ensley was not available for comment. 

-Robert Trawick  

HALLUCINATION: Camera captures fleeting glimpse of unpublished '74-’75 annual.  

Roving Kuralt raves on small towns  
By GORDON WIDENHOUSE  
Managing Editor  

“Eating in America is a problem. Eating well in America is a stupendous problem. This is because the people in America are more interested ineating quickly than in eating well. “So besides having our normal course of chili and beer, we join everybody else and have our share of Big Macs,” commented CBS correspondent Charles Kuralt during his visit to the Davidson College campus Tuesday and Wednesday. And if anyone ought to know about the eating habits of small-town America, or any of their other habits for that matter, it would be this 41-year-old newsman who gave up a desk and regular workday for an old travel van and numerous hours on the road. -Vance Polley

EYE ON AMERICA: Charles Kuralt tells student journalists how to thumb a ride onto the road of a broadcasting career.

Kuralt entertained a Love Auditorium audience with stories and opinions about the heartland of America...the people who live in small towns and on the back roads. Unlike most reporters who hunt down headline stories, Kuralt looks for the simple aspects of American life. From his observations, Kuralt has come to believe that America is growing in its conception and actualization of goodness and humanity. He feels that the nation’s sense of justice is stronger than ever before.

The Wilmington, N.C. native declined to expound on the subjects typically associated with well-known journalists - such as Watergate, the economic crisis, and the like. And in his amusing way, he claimed no authority from which to make such comments, since he “missed most of the big news events of recent years” because he was located in some obscure village working on an “On the Road” segment.

But there is more to Charles Kuralt than simply his amiable personality which enabled him to become the first and most famous roving correspondent surveying the grassroots of the country. He is, in his own right, a highly skilled and capable reporter and journalist. His long career began during his college years at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he was editor of the Daily Tar Heel. “I found myself dropping courses so that I could spend more time on the Tar Heel...until I found that by the spring term of my senior year, I had dropped them all,” he reminisced.

Following his graduation, Kuralt remained in the Old North State, taking a position with the Charlotte News. There, at the age of 22, his “People” column won him a major writing award, which led to a job with CBS News. He moved up the CBS hierarchy, rising to the position of Latin American correspondent. Speaking of his two years at that post, Kuralt noted that it was a cutthroat situation. Every day, he said, you are wondering if that guy from NBC is getting an interview with the President of Brazil while you are still in bed sleeping or following through what turns out to be a dead lead.

But Kuralt continued to excel and soon became the CBS Los Angeles Bureau Chief, supervising news coverage of nine western states. Eight years ago, however, the stocky newsman was granted permission (after his second request) to begin a three-month trial project that turned out to be the beginning of the “On the Road” series. As he noted with a grin, “The time period got extended somewhere along the way.” The present van which the crew occupies is only two years old, although it has over 115,000 miles to its credit.

(See KURALT, page 12)