Ten The Davidsonian May 15, 1975

Schweitzer explores music of spheres
By CARL SCHWARTZ
Staff Writer

“There is no essence of being, but only infinite being in infinite manifestations. Only an infinitely small part of infinite being comes within my range. The rest of it passes me by, like distant ships to which I make signals they do not understand.

“But by devoting myself to that which comes within my sphere of influence and needs me, I make spiritual inward devotions to infinite being a reality, and thereby give my own poor existence meaning and richness. The river has found its sea.”

Philosopher, theologian, medical missionary, biographer, and Nobel Peace Prize winner, Albert Schweitzer (1875-1965) was also a brilliant musicologist and organist.

In addition to many essays on music and organ building, Schweitzer wrote a biography of Johann Sebastian Bach and recorded a considerable quantity of his organ music. It was through his writing, recording, and performing that Schweitzer financed his mission hospital in Africa. Columbia Records has re-released some of his Bach recordings on its Odyssey label (Mono 32-26-0003). The organ used is located at the Parish Church of Gunsbach in Alsace-Lorraine and was rebuilt under Schweitzer’s direction.

The Bach works featured on this recording are: The Preludes in C-Major (BWV 531) and D-Major (BWV 532), the Fugue in A-Minor (BWV 543), the Canzona in D-Minor (BWV 588), the Toccata, Adagio, and Fugue in C-Major (BWV 564), and the Fantasy and Fugue in G-Minor (BWV 542). In addition to these purely instrumental works, the recording includes the Chorale-Prelude on “I call to thee, Lord Jesus Christ” (BWV 639), “O Man, thy grievous sin bemoan” (BWV 622), “Praise be to thee, Jesus Christ” (BWV 604), “My heart is ever yearning” (BWV 727), and “Now Come Saviour of the Gentiles” (BWV 659). Bach’s last composition, written on his deathbed: the not as slow as they seem. The sound of the organ is at fault here, much too much reverberation was recorded and the resulting sound is muddy. Aside from this problem, the playing comes across as straightforward, neatly phrased, and filled with understanding.

There are problems in the interpretation: and the organ registration is Romantic French, Schweitzer’s phrasing, particularly in the A-Minor Fugue, is ludicrous at times, but does not reach his playing at all. Therefore, any potential listener needs to be warned; these performances are not Baroque in style, and dashing in tempo, but rather cautious readings, filled with awe for Bach’s genius, and animated by a sincere if often misguided musical feeling. This is a chance to hear the playing of the great Albert Schweitzer so often referred to by modern performers as if their style of playing were identical to his, thereby justifying their practices. I believe any such claim will be discredited in light of this recording. Schweitzer’s playing is an unforgettable listening experience, and a strange one too.

C.A. & Y.B.

Crazy dream recaps 4 infamous years

Ladies and gentlemen, we have graciously been allowed this space for what we will call our last flush. For those of you who have seen the light, merely nod your head and laugh; for you who have not heard the cries of warning, sorry; try to listen as we relate the following. We both had the strangest dream last night... September 6th, 1971, a day of infamy. It was fall (it usually is in September). We were nowhere and did not know it. Purpose: to be oriented. Why: Why not? Place: a southern plantation lawn looking at the others in our cruise ship; a special deal on a one-way, four years (five for YB) voyage. Destination: oblivion without end (how fatalistic).

Dealing Coachy things

Terry Holland in my dorm, dealing coachy things, what’s a “Bo”? Who’s the funny-looking kid with short arms? Who cares, he looks lost too. Hall counselors... oh boy this is going to be a hell of a fun fun camp. Where’s the Lake Campus? Across the tracks. Oh, okay. What do you mean there are no girls here?... Queens?... 20 miles away? We got a Mixer. Saturday? A mixer? Ruff! Ruff! down, Spot, down. They’re gonna lower the rope. Panic in Detroit on 150 girls' faces. I can’t believe this... who are these girls? Man, I gotta do something. Does anybody know Dixie Labelle? We’re gonna take our shoes off? I do gotta do something. Maybe put on a red, white, and blue outfit and look for honor code violations? Dan Rhodes does look like Abe Lincoln. Hello, I’m Rah Rah Friars and I can say in 2 hours what anybody else can say in 5 minutes. YB finds out the truth about Humes. Let’s go to Winthrop... The Barn, an accurate name. Phil Latio and the Staten Island Fairies. YB tells Abbo to sit on it and rotate. (Thanks Matheny).

Crazy endeavors

Meanwhile, YB gets Dear Buck letters, CA tactfully plays “Oh Lonesome Me” to console him! YBappears St. Patrick's Day to aid CA in his crazy endeavors. Mice Lai. Calley Tweedy convicted. Arnold K. Moose eulogized by Che. Jones, Tweedy, and Lazaros try for Triple Ripple. All three learn death hurts real quick. Laz’s room becomes a fallout disaster from tossed cookies. Winthrop mixer... Che... do you always carry your underwear in your pants’ pockets? Well, YB says “later DC.” Goodbye was sad but you know he loved it. One way out and gotta take it. CA is gonna go down under to play hoops. Bring me a Koala etc. Olivia Newton-John says the tricky YB (gets nei); What-A-Lynn. Where we gonna live? Says us. I don’t know but we gotta make room for the W.B., my wife says CA. OK pervert, you got it, we’ll take you to What-A-Lynn. Arggh. Gnort Gnort. Summer finally wooshes us off. They say it gets easier after sophomore year. OK, who is they, damn it? YB returns no bread, gotta play the games. You mean you’re still in Humes? (Insane laughter). 3rd Belk now with Rodge. Witz, Wetzel, Dwight, and others. A zoo man! Becomes Winthrop North very ill. CA varsity, YB plays “kick-a-touchdown.” Witz in love. Oh man, if you’re gonna lock the door, Sid, do something in there. Water Bed!! New ways to instant relief. Phone bills? Water fights with broken bones, backstabbing (CA cheats), a general water wetness. New rush, Rolling Rock bottles against dorm hall. Lex Veazy has Hawaiian disease started. YB teases fish with water gun. CA diagnoses artificially induced paranoia in fish tank. Dope? YB meets Max the Axe. CA says I will return to Catholicism if I can go to Notre Dame. Final score: Max 10--YB 0. No contest. YB calls for rematch. Summer: CA poly sci, YB English out of convenience. Metz-eco (rat), Sid-eco (nuts). Year 3. You're still in Humes? Oh yeah. The curse struck for 3 out of 3 with CA. How can you do this to me CA? I’ve heard it all before. No questions please. Duke dorm across from. Dupont heir kidnapping for ransom considered but unuh. CA still humming Notre Dame fight song. Grims runs starting to erode intestines. Funny looking faces and all. Wetzel’s head says “Exit stage left.” Lloyd Batts “lives in Silver. What a lemon Pinto arrives...what a lemon. Wisco runs: try to pick date of return. Wetzel turns down collect call from YB. YB threatens revenge on Max. What are those things in skirts? What’s a skirt? Girls Basketball? Ahh come on Ann give me a break. You’ll do what to me if I don’t?...alright. Jimi Hendrix lives in Bruno. Falcon as Jaegger. Pinball, YB takes apart machines. Machines rape him in return. Ho Krishna and the Fireman on a weird, weird night. Thursday night at Hatties becomes an institution. Beachball making socks in Mooresville. Beating the Cock’s, quite a rush. Year IV. Sometimes I feel so uninspired. New football coach infects athletic dept with M.T. disease--spreads extremely fast. Thursday night study for T-Bird parties. CA becomes manic depressive while YB plays coach with Schmode and Beach. Pinto sees Hollywood Blvd. More coeds. Are you sure they go here? What language do they speak? Wet, monsoons, bleah. Spring: “In the shuffling madness of the locomotive breath runs the all-time loser headlong to his death.” --Jethro Tull. The parties start, Hatties outrageous. The Spring rolls faster every week, the weather improving. Quasar goes berserk. Giving the right fielder shit. Golden wheels and his nut squad. Phardinia. Rays, Lays, and Jays, Max Vol., Max Rays, Max. Twenty-seven kegs. Tunes. “No it won’t slow down.” Beer. Everyone and his brother throws a party. Hatties goes down in flames. Yet the Spring keeps rolling. Rays. Frolics and twenty-seven kegs, beer ball. The Browns vs. the Gozinyas. Stripper on the roof of Duke? Free beer again. Rays. Hey...it’s almost over. No really. I got to split. CA? play some ball or be a law student (a what?). Wetzel? only he knows for sure. YB? ain’t no telling but it won’t be good. Through: finished...finally. Reflections? Naaaa, I don’t think so. Can’t look back on the mistakes or the good things y’know. Just ain’t too practical. Gotta be unstuck in time, so it goes is the only way. To leave? a pleasure. YB takes the road with a piece of paper. CA wishes he didn’t get his. That’s over, isn’t it? “If we shadows have offended, Think but this and all is mended, That you have but slumbered here, While these visions did appear, And this weak and idle theme, No more yielding but a dream.” ~Shakes. May you always match.

Commencement 1975
Davidson College
Saturday, May 24
6:00 p.m. Baccalaureate Service, DCPC. Thomas A. Langford Jr., Dean, Duke Divinity School preaching.
7:00 p.m. Supper, Richardson Plaza. Hosts: President and Mrs. Spencer.
8:30 p.m. Concert, Love Auditorium. Male Chorus performs.

Sunday, May 25
10:15 a.m. Commencement Service, Front Campus.