Twelve SST The Davidsonian April 3, 1975

Class investigates cigarette producers

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The average American, 18 years old or older, smokes 4,155 cigarettes per year. This and many other facts were uncovered in a case study of the cigarette industry by the Industrial Organization class, under the leadership of Economics Professor Robert Avinger, last term. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the structure, conduct, and performance of the industry. The major emphasis was placed on R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. which produces Winston, Salem, and Vantage cigarettes.

The group spent a day in Winston-Salem talking with various executives, and touring the Whitaker Park plant, R.J. Reynolds’ largest facility. RJR Tobacco Company is currently the largest tobacco company in the U.S. and third or fourth in the world. “Our goal is to sell more cigarettes than any other company. And we are getting there,” said Company President William Hobbs.

RJR Tobacco compiled $2.8 billion in gross sales in 1974. Hobbs met with the Davidson group and explained the corporate structure of R.J. Reynolds Industries, of which the tobacco company is just a subsidiary.

Cancer scare

The diversification into industries other than tobacco came just recently as a result of the cancer scare. The cigarette producers were afraid that consumption might drop off, so they expanded into other areas.

Hobbs cited the tax on cigarettes as the major problem in the industry. The federal excise tax is less than a dime per pack, but many state and local taxes account for over half of the price of cigarettes. Another problem is the frequent publication of studies linking cigarette smoking with various diseases. Hobbs insisted that almost all of the allegations were totally untrue, being based on “shaded statistics and sloppy research.” One example cited was the statement, “100,000 doctors have given up smoking.” That figure came from a government-sponsored mail survey of 5,000 doctors. After several follow-ups, the survey people heard from only a third of their sample of 5,000, and of those, a third said they were ex-smokers. The researchers multiplied the whole U.S. doctor population of about 300,000 by a third, and claimed 100,000 had quit smoking, according to Hobbs.

“Apparently the officials at Reynolds are not concerned about any connection between smoking and disease,” said one Davidson participant. “Almost all the executives smoke non-filter cigarettes, and free cigarettes are provided for all employees during lunches and breaks. Everyone who takes a tour of the plant is allowed at least one free pack of cigarettes.”

Hobbs mentioned two of R.J. Reynolds’ inventions, the most important of which is their patented “puffing” technique. When tobacco is cured, the cells shrink to about half their normal size. The puffing process puffs up the cells to their original size, resulting in a large saving in the tobacco purchasing. This is especially important since most of the actual cost of a cigarette is the tobacco itself.cost of tobacco. Reynolds’ extensive research department, which discovered this process, is also concerned with discovering what tobacco is and what it does when it burns.

1500 compounds
Over 1500 compounds have been found in tobacco, and many more in its smoke. Should it become necessary to remove a compound, Reynolds wants to know the most efficient way. One executive said, “The future corporate success or failure depends on the research department.”

In addition to research, advertising is a very important part of the cigarette industry. The people at Reynolds said that advertising is the only means of competition in the industry. Every cigarette producer would benefit if all were to cut back on advertising, but no producer will cut back for fear that the others will not follow. Reynolds spent well over $100 million on advertising in 1973. Their top brands, Winston, Salem, and Vantage, received most of this. A great deal of money has recently been put into a new advertising campaign for Winston in an attempt to regain the number one spot taken over by Marlboro at the beginning of this year.

Most of the advertising is image-creating rather than informative. The idea is to relate a brand to a certain image, such as the Marlboro man or the Winchester man. Reynolds’ newest brand, More, is a good example. The advertising program is to relate More to today’s individual, who desires more flavor, more puffs. The tobacco is wrapped in brown paper, giving it the appearance of a little cigar, and the cigarette is 120 mm long.

Although Reynolds is experimenting with several new tobacco products, the officials absolutely denied any research into the development of a marijuana product in anticipation of legalization. They have not researched marijuana because it currently is still illegal. No comment was given on the possibilities if marijuana were legalized.

Avinger’s class investigated the production plant after discussing the financial posture of RJR with Hobbs and other top corporate officers.

Clean production
“The production plant was immaculate, inside and out. The preconception of most people that the cigarette industry is filthy and sooty is false. The wooden floor in the production room shone like a basketball court. There was a certain aroma about the place, the concentrated stench of tobacco,” said one student in the project. “The production lines are extremely efficient. Each line has built-in testing stations, and every cigarette which fails to meet certain standards is ejected from the line, like a machine gun bullet, into a waiting barrel,” he added.

These barrels are then taken to the recycling department where everything that can still be used is removed and returned to the production line. The remainder, along with the parts of the tobacco leaf which cannot be used in cigarettes, is made into paper.

After the educational visit to RJR Headquarters, the students wrote a three-part, 100-page report on various economic facets of the R.J. Reynolds Company.

Smoking Interview
Williams Hibbs, president of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco, discusses economic strategy with Dr. Robert Avinger as students look on.