May 9, 1975 The Davidsonian Nine

Gordon Widenhouse

Recruiting seeks new heights with Dore

(Ed. Note: The following is an analysis of Davidson’s recruiting year in basketball. It deals with the feelings of head coach Bo Brickels on the total effort of the staff in recruiting and what he thinks has been gained as far as the future is concerned.)

“There is something I want to say right off the bat,” Brickels said in an afternoon interview Wednesday. “Before we signed the big kid, we had gotten four awfully good ball players. We were hesitant to sound too excited because if we had missed out on the big man, everyone would have said, ‘Well, we still don’t have the big kid so we are still no better off than before.’”

“Now I do not agree with that. But we just didn’t want to start that kind of talk before we knew we had the big guy.” Then Brickels commented with something that he has probably been wanting to say for a long, long time. “Now I can say to everybody, ‘We've got the big man,’” he indicated with a sly grin. “That’s what everyone has been telling me we needed, that’s what everyone has been complaining about and asking about. And now we have one.”

Indeed, the Cats now have the big man. And a good one at that. Tom Dore, a 7-2 giant from East Leyden High School in Illinois, brings to Davidson what so many apologists for the basketball program here have said was all that it needed. But Brickels does not want to cloud the picture. “Now we can afford to come on strong about the first four players we signed,” he noted. “We just didn’t want to go and get too excited before we got the big man. Now we can. And we have really got something to be excited about.” That may be the understatement of the year.

Brickels explained the efforts and tactics that went into the signing of these five stars who seem to fit together on paper like they were designed to play together. “Jim (Laranaga), Harry (Krohn) and James (Brown) did a super job of selling Davidson to the kids,” said Brickels. “We didn’t have to make rash promises to any of these guys. We just told them they would get an opportunity to play.

“It is also a credit to Jim, Harry and James that they sold this program. We had to convince everyone that we were going to win and win soon. That can be difficult coming off a 7-19 season. But they did it.” Brickels also noted that Johnathan Rhyne, the manager of the basketball team, was instrumental in the recruiting success of the Cats this season. “What he did was tremendous,” praised the silver-haired mentor. “He entertained every kid that visited. That is so important. A good example of how much he meant in getting these guys is that the minute Dore signed, he called Johnathan here in Davidson. He was the first person Tom called. Now that is saying something.”

The Cats appear to have put it all together this year. Brickels passes the credit out to his coaches and his manager. But to underestimate the enthusiasm that Brickels himself put into the recruiting would be unfair.

A New Attitude: Let’s Win

Brickels talked about the attitude that the recruits have. Needless to say, he is enthusiastic there also. “These five guys are going to rejuvenate our program,” he said. “They are really psyched up about playing basketball here and winning.”

Once again, Brickels put forth an example. The coaches called the four early signees when Dore made his final decision. “Art (Leahy, 6-4 guard from California) went wild and said that they were going to do it next year. John (Gerdy, 6-4 guard from New Jersey) was out lifting weights and running, but his father talked for 30 minutes about how they were going to do it next year.”Afraid that someone who should be playing a forward has to play center. “Pat (Hickert, 6-7 forward from Florida) went through the ceiling, he was so excited. And Jim (Rice, 6-5 forward from Ohio) said everything was set for next year. What more can a coach ask for? These guys are ready to work hard. The quality is there and we are going to be able to do it. I would like to see us mature next season. We have another rough non-conference schedule, with many games on the road early. But by the season’s end, we should be ready to roll and put things together.”

The Players: Material to Build With

Dore is, of course, what the Cats have apparently needed. He towers over the opposition and Brickels describes him as “a hard worker with good hands and a player who rebounds very well and has an extremely good outlet pass.” Dore had a 21-point scoring average this season, along with 14 rebounds. He has been over 40 points twice and has those statistics despite facing stalls from the opposition in ten of 29 games.

Gerdy is the excellent shooter. He has the potential to be a big scorer for the Cats and is called “competitive and a good passer” by Brickels. He averaged around eight assists per game, along with his 20-plus points.

Leahy has the conviction that he cannot be stopped. According to Brickels, that is a very important asset. “He can penetrate and get the points for us. That’s what you have to do to win.”

Rice is the example of consistency. He averaged 14 points and 14 rebounds every game in what is termed the “toughest high school loop in Ohio.” He is an excellent defensive player who gets the job done.

Finally, Hickert is a great offensive rebounder. Brickels noted that he “just has a knack for getting his hands on the ball.” He also called Hickert a “Bobby Jones-type player.”

What to Expect: A Miracle

The preceding motto glares the observer in the face from the desk in Brickels’ office. This January, the coaches got together with the names of 15 recruits and circled the six they wanted. Five of them signed. That is nothing short of a miracle. “We lost one guy we really wanted, but we got the other five,” mused Brickels. “We even let some very good ball players go who wanted to come here because we had the five we felt could do the job for us. That is a good position to be in.”

Brickels has a list of 30 or so high school standouts. Of the 30, no more than two (if even that many) went to the same school, except five. They all signed with the Cats. That is a good omen for the future. The Cats have come through what might be the best recruiting year ever. Of course, that cannot be determined until some performances have been seen. But on paper at least, the five future freshmen who will don basketball jerseys for the Wildcats next season should blend with the returning veterans to provide the Cats with the attitude, the capability, and the performance that is needed to transform a losing program back into a winning one.

Leave your account open during the summer-- A dollar will do. When you have no activity, there is no charge-- Regardless of balance. Save time on your return in September-- Activate your account simply with a deposit. Your remaining personalized checks will be good-- No need to buy new ones. Carry your Piedmont Bank Master Charge Card with you this summer. Apply now if you don’t have one.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER F.D.I.C.