Fourteen | The Davidsonian April 24, 1975

IMAC SIF’s.

By PAUL BANTA and ALAN EDMONDS
Staff Writers

Amid much rumor and speculation, IMAC President Bryan Andrews resigned today following the announcement of the loss of IMAC field #5 to the “Coux Rouge” insurgents (official name of the Davidson townies). The loss of this key field sounded the death knell for the much-maligned Andrews regime.

Andrews’ resignation comes a little more than two years after the signing of the Cornelius Peace Accord. This peace accord, which was signed in January 1973 by Bo Phillips, representing the SGA, and Tim Maulden, representing the Coux Rouge, called for the withdrawal of all SGA forces from the IMAC fields and for a ceasefire between the IMAC and townies’ forces. This agreement was attacked by SGA hawks who proclaimed that it did nothing but remove SGA forces from the fields without establishing a just and lasting peace. The doves countered by saying that an agreement between the opposing forces could not be imposed by the SGA, but would have to be worked out by the IMAC officials and the Coux Rouge themselves.

The agreement had no chance for success as both sides violated it immediately. The Coux Rouge gained the upper hand, but only in the past few weeks have they been able to exert themselves and win a total victory. As it became evident to IMAC head Andrews that his supply lines were over-extended, he ordered an evacuation of IMAC forces from fields #2 and #4, as they were considered to be the least valuable. However, the planned orderly withdrawal soon became a rout. Horrified SGA members watched on TV as IMAC referees fought their way onto official IMAC golf carts, in place of the men and women refugees for whom the carts were intended.

This action sparked debate in the SGA Senate as to who lost IMAC. The Hawks, led by Tony Snow, claimed that the SGA had abandoned IMAC, “and if only the SGA had fulfilled IMAC requests for money and equipment, they would still be in non-townie hands.” Snow also contends, “Since we abandoned IMAC, we will have trouble meeting our other commitments. I foresee increased townie pressure upon the laundry.”

Dana English, speaking for the Senate doves, countered, “Increased allocations for IMAC would be useless at this point. IMAC officials abandoned tens of dollars worth of equipment on the lost fields. We have no assurance that any equipment allocated to IMAC at this time will not end up in townie hands, just as previous equipment has. As far as other SGA commitments, I never liked the laundry anyway.”

Matters turned for the worse later in the week as field #3 fell to the insurgents because of Andrews’ administrative blunders. An irate IMAC official threw a bat through Andrews’ office window earlier in the week, in a demonstration of frustration over botched IMAC policies, before surrendering himself and his equipment over to the townies.Coux Rouge forces. Andrews’ resignation was hastened by this display of embitteredness.

The Church of Conservation Invites You To Be An ORDAINED MINISTER And Acquire The Rank DOCTOR OF NATUREPEDICS

Our fast-growing church is actively seeking environment-conscious new ministers who believe what we believe: Man should exist in harmony with nature. We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Benefits for ministers are:
1. Car Emblem I.D.
2. Reduced rates from many hotels, motels, restaurants, car rental agencies, etc. Our directory lists over 1,000 prestige establishments extending an automatic cash discount.
3. Perform marriages, baptisms, funerals, and all other ministerial functions.
4. Start your own church and apply for exemption from Property and other taxes.

Enclose a free-will donation for the minister's credentials and pocket license. Your ordination is recognized in all 50 states and most foreign countries.

Church of Conservation, Box 375, Mary and Pocket Esther, Florida 32569.

IFT, Bongs all suffer defeats

Structure could be only a matter of weeks or even days. Now for the ‘happy’ news. In contrast to those IMAC losers, the rest of this column is devoted to the IMAC winners. The IMAC roll call of undefeated teams was diminished by many this week. Emanon Z lost to the Staten Island Fairies in a thriller, 15-11; 14-16, 6-15. Emanon, depending on good teamwork, just fell short to the more-poised SIF’s, and their loss creates a three-way tie in Division III, with the Spe’s being the other leader. IFT softball also left the ranks of the perfect, as did KA #1. IFT lost a 2-1 game to Chakras, and the KA’s lost to the SAE’s. The Beavers, by bouncing the Bongs, 4-3, became the only undefeated softball team, and removed the Bongs from that status. The Bongs rebounded by dropping PDT #1, 2-0, and thus sending the Delts to third place. Volleyball still has several teams with unmarred records. IFT continues to waltz through their “competition.” The unsung Kerwood Derbies, led by Alan Duncan and Brian Coffey, are gaining momentum just in time for the tourney. The freshmen Bongs are still bouncing along and Phi Gamms have undoubtedly backed into their perfect record. A special note: the field #1, the gym, and the IMAC clinic remained spotless by office under IMAC control. The defeating the Zoo, 15-5, 10-15, 15-5. —Pete Goodman

The fall of field #5 leaves only

PARKS REXALL DRUGS
Hours: 9 - 7. — Wed. 9 - 12. — Sun. 9:30 - 10:30
Phone 892-0208
Davidson, N. C. 131 N. Main St.
Complete Prescription Service - Sundries - Toiletries - Cosmetics — Russell Stover Candies

PEREGRINE HOUSE PRESENTS
John Kuentzel
8:00 - 10:00
Light folk music
Sunday night come and enjoy!

The advertisements you read each week in The Davidsonian meet our standards for fair and ethical presentation of quality products and services. Support our advertisers. Tell them you saw their ad in The Davidsonian.

Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
Ext. Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
HATTIE'S HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.