March 13, 1975

The Davidsonian Reflects Juror's Tastes

National Features 164 Graphics

By VINCE RABIL
Contributing Editor

The Fourth Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition will open for exhibit this Sunday, March 16th, from 2 to 6 p.m. in Cunningham Fine Arts Building. The youthful age of a show of this type is a comment upon the recent coming of age of printmaking and drawing as self-sufficient, respectable mediums, and their acceptance into the pantheon of "proper" forms of fine art.

In pre-photography days, printmaking was used by artists to reproduce paintings, to illustrate texts, and to advertise. Only during this century has printmaking been regarded as a fine art in its own right, with its own peculiar potentialities and qualities. Drawing, along with printmaking, was for many years held to be one of the "secondary" arts. It was traditionally esteemed as little more than preliminary work in preparation for painting or sculpture. The great drawings of the past have been viewed in this light only until recently. Drawings by the old masters have been "rediscovered" in the sense that they are now seen to be highly personal expressions of the individual artist and his own calligraphic style, which provides us with insights into the artist’s perception of his environment: emotionally, spatially, and structurally.

In response to the recent trends of modern art to become increasingly more conscious of the unique possibilities of particular media, and the growing demand by the viewing public for fine, original works of art at a low cost, printmaking and drawing today have achieved new status among the visual arts. Thus, printmaking may be said to represent the "democratization" of art today; and, the new status of drawing may be symbolic of our broader, more tolerant view of what "is" fine art.

Drawing and printmaking are characteristic, communicative media of our mass industrial age in which conception, design, blueprint, planning, and advertisement or "presentation" involve large amounts of society’s creative resources and attention. It can only be expected that artists should utilize these media which are so commonly used in modern, social industry and so well suited to current market conditions.

While painting has long been the domain of the monied upper classes, printmaking and drawing have now achieved emancipation and full rights as fine art in response to the demands and tastes of the middle-class societies of today. Prints and drawings are thus the investment art of the middle class par excellence. In the Davidson National, we can expect to see the present state of these arts as they are used by artists who stretch them to the limits of graphic integrity to create not only completely new visual realities, but also to reflect their own literary concerns with life today and the issues and crises of our mass culture.

Indeed, the commonality of themes pouring in from across the country, and the dominant literary theme of doom and destruction that characterized many entries, seems to prove that the common experience of these artists is a mass experience of which we are also a part. In addition to the mass social experience of these artists, it is also apparent that they face common aesthetic experiences as they come to grips with the visual problems of these media.Generally, and the various printing processes and drawing materials particularly, the 161 works selected from nearly 2,500 entries by the juror, Judith Goldman, are those works which, in her opinion, met the challenges of the media and format most successfully. It may be pointed out that over one-third of the works selected were drawings, which is a greater number of drawings than has ever been selected for the Davidson National. Ms. Goldman, who is the managing editor of Art News magazine and an experienced connoisseur of prints and drawings, feels that color and abstraction do not work as well in small formats as black and white, representational, and figurative designs. This determination by Goldman could be the source of great frustration to those artists who have developed highly sophisticated and personal styles which may be solely about color or abstract pattern. The implications of this critical observation, if Ms. Goldman’s tastes concerning small formats become widely held, are that some artists must either change their styles or not be able to translate their visual conceptions into small-scale prints and drawings that will, according to Goldman, “hold together graphically.”

Goldman’s tastes come down hard on the use of photographs in printmaking, which she feels have been used only by artists such as Rauschenberg with some success in prints. Although she admitted that she is attracted to the seductive quality of photographs at first sight, Goldman said that due to the highly personal demands of prints, the direct use of photographs “seems to fall flat” after a while, and according to her, seems to be so many “images in search of ideas.” In the interest of iconographic coherency, Goldman prefers “works influenced by the camera, but seen with the eye and rendered with the hand.” Goldman’s views on the use of photographs in printmaking are a very interesting development in the current criticism of prints for the reason that the influence of the photograph has figured so strongly in previous Davidson Nationals, and other jurors have been unable to assess the use of photographs in such a coherent manner. Perhaps Ms. Goldman has at last been able to give us an idea of the limits to which the use of the photograph can be taken in the intimate world of prints.

The role of Judith Goldman as juror in this competition is of central concern to the full appreciation of the show. Indeed, the now common usage of one juror rather than a panel of jurors in competitions such as this one has added a whole new dimension to juried exhibitions. It could be said that this show as a whole will be as much about Judith Goldman and her particular tastes as it is about the art itself. Be that as it may, whatever Goldman’s tastes, we can be assured that they are very experienced and sophisticated (she has observed: “Good art is almost never flashy.”), and that due to the reputation of this show which has attracted so much good work, we will be seeing prints and drawings of high quality which have been produced by the nation’s leading artists. Herb Jackson, the show’s director, has stated that this is a wonderful opportunity for us at Davidson to see and to invest in some of the best prints and drawings being created in the United States today.