April 17, 1975

"If you were to take the edge off the critical aspect of the Davidsonian, it would not be worth the paper it’s printed on." 
- Vice President for Academic Affairs Sin M. Bevan.

The dilemma of college publications
By MARK DEATON
Editor

(Ed. note: This is the second installment in a two-part series concerning college publications.)

"The main problem with the Davidsonian is that it’s boring," said Joe Earle, a former Davidsonian sports editor, now completing his master's in journalism at Columbia University. For many, there is little argument against extending that statement to include all campus publications. Despite such a claim, student publications are fairly widely read, according to a recent survey, with over 95 percent at least glancing briefly at a few articles in the Davidsonian or perusing once the Quips and Cranks. The Wildcat Handbook, although read by less than half of the student body, is read by almost all freshmen; The Miscellany has a considerably smaller audience.

These four student publications receive budgets of approximately three-fifths of the monies allocated by The Campus Tax Council. They may supplement their budgets with sales of advertisements, subscriptions, and patronages. There was not an advertisement in the 1973-74 Quips and Cranks nor one patron listed. The Miscellany followed suit in advertisements, although they do receive an annual grant from the North Carolina Council for the Arts. 1973-74 Quips and Cranks Editor Jeff George proposed last year the abolition of the Davidsonian, and the other three publications, encouraging the SGA to combine the functions.

Spencer names new assistant, Love to replace Godbehere
By John Wood
Staff Writer

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. chose senior Rick Love as the assistant to the president for next year. The decision was announced on April 8, one week later than expected, after "careful deliberation." Love will succeed present Assistant to the President Jerry Godbehere. The Assistant's duties will include clerical work for the president and his secretary and work as a liaison between students and several committees of the Board of Trustees. Other responsibilities include preparations for convocation and meetings and showing college guests around campus.

Both Godbehere and Love emphasized the role as liaison between students and the President. The office is "to let him (the president) know what the students are thinking," Godbehere commented. He added that he thought students could talk with the assistant and then be more relaxed before seeing Spencer. "The important part of it is the link between students and the President," Love asserted, "I see just as much of a responsibility to the students as to the President."

Love, an English major, is presently considering a career in college administration and so finds this educational experience as relevant support to his future goals. "The best aspect is that in the

ROTC out
The Red Cross Bloodmobile will make its annual spring visit to the Davidson community on Thursday, April 24, according to Captain William L. De Vaughn of the Davidson College ROTC Department and Bob Corlew, student coordinator of the drive.

"Giving blood is the most important thing you can do for your community," said De Vaughn. De Vaughn expressed hope that more people not affiliated with the college would participate in the drive this spring. "We had a large number in the fall, but not as many as we would like," he said. The drive will be held in the Campers Banquet Hall from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.

"The quota for this drive is 192 pints. This is lower than in previous years because our fall drive was so successful," Corlew said. "The Red Cross requires Davidson to provide 435 pints of blood each year in order to maintain blanket coverage for the college community. In the fall we were able to exceed our quota of 218 pints, receiving 243."

"Our fall drive was the most successful single-day blood drive ever at Davidson," said De Vaughn. "The Red Cross provides free blood coverage to all persons who donate blood, and to their immediate families, for one year after donation."

This drive is sponsored by the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, the national military honor society.President’s office you’ll come in contact with every other office,’ and so get a greater feel for college administration in general,” Love stated. Love had at one time considered law as a career. Love also feels a strong commitment to Davidson College. It is this commitment that is one of the factors that influenced his desire for the job. “I think Jerry’s done a good job,” said Love. He sees what Godbehere has done as a good model. “It (the job) is a good source of cheap labor,” commented Godbehere in reference to his position, “but the psychic benefit is great.” Godbehere cited the link between students and the President and clerical work in the President’s office as two major responsibilities.

George maintained that there is not a sufficient amount of news occurring at Davidson to justify the reporting function of the Davidsonian. He is correct in his assertion that there is generally not sufficient news or pertinent interest in any one week to fill even three tabloid pages. There, the Davidsonian attempts to define campus issues through investigative reports, analyses, and its pages of editorials and opinions. To publish monthly and comment editorially on events that occurred three to four weeks previous eliminates to a great extent the editorial potency of a newspaper. Negative comment on past issues after decisions have been made can hardly be regarded as valuable or fair. The editorial pages would to a great extent be reduced to a public relations page or a scandal-gripe sheet. “If you were to take the edge off the critical aspect of the Davidsonian, it would not be worth the paper it’s printed on,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. The concentration of power within one editorial board is another aspect of George’s proposal that is not particularly appealing. However, the informative functions of The Wildcat Handbook and The Quips and Cranks do overlap considerably. If the Wildcat Handbook, published at the beginning of each year, were made a student handbook rather than the freshman handbook, the pertinent information such as pictures identifying faculty, staff, students, and administration, would reach students at a time when such information would be useful and up-to-date. Such material is presently published in the annual over a year after it has informative value. “I think that idea has a lot of merit,” said 1975-76 Quips and Cranks Editor Randy Hunter. “I think you would have to elevate the Wildcat Handbook. I don’t think it’s the kind of book now that people keep around for ten years. “I would like to do an annual that was completely artistic and not have to take 30 pages for factual information. You’d just have to avoid being bland in the handbook,” said Hunter. If student publications are to continue to demand such a large proportion of the student activities fee, they must be more functional, more economical in their production, and editors and staff should demonstrate to the Campus Tax Council that they are seeking to supplement their allocations through the solicitation of advertisements, subscriptions, and patrons.

Rick Love

Seniors donate tube to Union

By BILL ELLETT
Associate Editor

A videobeam projection television will be installed in the new college union as the senior class gift of the Class of 1975, according to Class President Bob Corlew. This television has a 4½ x 5½ foot screen. The picture is projected onto it from a console which is placed several feet back from the screen. “This gift affords to us the opportunity to show that we feel the union plays a very important role in the lives of college students. “It will be an expression of our desire that future students have better social facilities than we have had in the cramped Carnegie building,” said Corlew. The cost of the television itself is $2795 installed. Any additional contributions will go toward the purchase of a videotape unit ($1700) or videotapes ($20 each). These tapes would permit such programs as “Ascent of Man,” “Civilization,” and “Alistair Cooke’s America” to be recorded for future showings. The members of the senior class will be asked to contribute $15 each to the gift fund, according to Corlew. Other ideas considered by the committee included making the first contribution to the proposed new field house, giving a $3000 stand to the library for its portrait of E.H. Little, giving the college a “significant” major work of art, and constructing new trophy cases for the debate team.