Eight The Davidsonian April 3, 1975

Pitching propels Wildcats to 2 wins

By Bill Lloyd
Staff Writer

After a slow start, the Wildcat Baseball team boosted its record to 9-6 with a 5-2 win over Furman University on Monday. The Cats are now 4-1 in the Southern Conference with only one loss to The Citadel.

“It was a tough game yesterday, but our big bats came through when we needed them and Joel Tew pitched an outstanding game,” commented Wildcat baseball coach Junior Wade.

Last Wednesday, The Citadel came to Davidson and got off to a quick lead in the early going. A late-inning Davidson comeback did not prove to be enough as the Cats dropped their first conference game 6-4. The Citadel played well, but Davidson’s personnel looked more experienced in the losing effort.

Thursday’s game was a double-header against California State from Pennsylvania. Sophomore Tim Barr pitched the first game, which the Cats won 3-0.

Slide, man, slide. —Pete Goodman

Bill Todd slides into home on a wild pitch in the second inning of the Hamilton game last Tuesday. Sophomore Jim Nichols hit a double to bring in two of the runs, and freshman third baseman Dale Horner singled in the third run of the game. In the second game of the double-header, sophomore Tim Peck pitched an impressive nine strikeouts to win the game 3-2.

“We looked tough both defensively and offensively in this win,” added Wade. Dale Horner hit an inside-the-park home run to start the scoring for the Cats. With the score tied 2-2 in the bottom of the seventh inning, the Wildcats loaded the bases on Stone’s double and walks to Gary Pomaroy and George Weicker. Senior catcher Mark Rodgeman then picked up his third hit of the game by drilling a shot over the left fielder’s head to knock in the winning run.

First baseman Weicker and designated hitter Jim Nichols were impressive at the plate in the double win. Friday brought a game against Williams College, which resulted in a 14-2 crush by the Wildcats. Everyone hit well, especially Weicker and Nichols, who were 3 for 5 at the plate. Junior Mike Hall pitched the game, and Davidson’s pitching depth is looking better as the season continues.

Monday’s action had the Cats traveling to Furman University to win another important conference game 5-2. Junior Joel Tew pitched well and increased his record to 3-1 in the conference and 3-2 overall. According to Wade, “Tew’s pitching was just fantastic. At one point, Furman had the bases loaded, but Joel managed to pitch himself out of the tight situation. That pretty well ended it for Furman right there.”

Furman’s pitching resulted in several walks for the Wildcats. Ever-consistent slugger Weicker hit a home run and was 3 for 4 at the plate. Weicker has hit 4 home runs in 5 conference games. Junior outfielder EdWillingham contributed a two-run double off the left field wall to contribute to the win over the Paladins. This week the Wildcats face Hamilton College, New York State University, and Wake Forest here.

Sports this week:

College Campus Representative Needed to sell Brand Name Stereo Components to Students at lowest prices. High Commission, NO Investment required. Serious Inquiries ONLY! FAD COMPONENTS, INC. 20 Passaic Ave. Fairfield, New Jersey 07006 Jerry Diamond 201-227-6814

Unitea Farm Workers of America (AFL-CIO) April 3 4:45 p.m. Track: Campbell P.O. Box 62 Campbell Keene, Ca. 93531

April 3 2 p.m. Tennis: UNC

April 3-5 New York State Church of Conservation invites you to be an ORDAINED MINISTER and acquire the rank of DOCTOR of NATUREPEDICS. Good Pay, New Opportunities, Career Training, Regular Promotions. We are actively calling for gracious new ministers who believe what we believe: Man should exist in harmony with nature. We are a non-structured faith, undenominational, with no traditional doctrine or dogma. Benefits for ministers are:
1. Free credentials and certificate.
2. Reduced rates from many hotels, car rental agencies, etc.
3. Our directory lists over 1,000 prestige establishments extending on automobiles, funerals, and other services.
4. Start your own church and apply for exemption from property and other taxes.

April 4 2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Home Radcliffe
April 4 2:45 p.m. Tennis: Richmond
April 4 3 p.m. Baseball: Home Wake Forest
April 5 1 p.m. Tennis: William & Mary
April 5 TBA Baseball: Appalachian
April 7 1:30 p.m. Baseball: Home William & Mary (2)
April 7-8 Charlotte, N.C. Collegiate Golf Championships: Charlotte, Forrest Pawtucket GC
April 7 2 p.m. Tennis: Home Presbyterian
April 7 3:30 p.m. Tennis: Home
April 7 Baseball: Citadel
April 7 4 p.m. Tennis: Home Atlantic Christian
April 10 3 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Home Davidson

EARN $45 FOR ONE WEEKEND PER MONTH, AND TRAIN FOR A REWARDING CAREER IN THE TECHNICAL SKILL OF YOUR CHOICE. GETTING INVOLVED BECAUSE AMERICA NEEDS US. FOR MORE INFORMATION (No Obligation) CLIP AND MAIL TO: ARMY RESERVE OPPORTUNITIES, 4001 WEST DEVON AVE. RM. 106, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60646

NAME:
ADDRESS:
CITY:
STATE:

IT PAYS TO GO TO MEETINGS

Visit the First Union National.