December 12, 1975

The Davidsonian

Cost of dialo (Continued from page 11)

E. H. LITLE - Raita’. > 9) 5 Viner wibiig ig SITTIN Pugtte- “7S Barns 13—

Library remains Campus cynosure

By BILL LINK
Associate Editor

The Davidson E. H. Little Library, for some, represents an escape from a dank, oppressive dormitory room; for others, an intellectual weight room, where dreams of a high G.P.A. are realized. However, the library acts for everybody as the vortex of the academic and social life of Davidson. One way or another, we all end up there at least once during the day. If we don’t, perhaps we should, or so our consciences tell us.

Unfortunately, this last solution would unduly punish the other occupants of the dormitory.

On a more serious note, I offer the hypothesis that our inability to internalize these externalities by better enforcement of property rights varies directly with the size of the community. Mutual respect is encouraged when communication within a group is open and honest. As group size increases (through increased enrollments as well as movements towards a more open campus), communication is hindered and the enforcement of property rights neglected. In short, in a “do your own thing” society the rights of others to such common property resources as air, water, or wall space are infringed; and the gap between private and social costs is widened. It follows that a “brother's keeper” lifestyle does have some economic rationale.

If this analysis is correct and a lack of communication within our community encourages the misuse of property, then an obvious question asks why is there too little communication. Our understanding of this problem may be increased by applying the concepts of demand and supply. The demand for communication is derived from (1) its entertainment value; (2) information benefits, including understanding; and (3) its value as an instrument for acquiring goods and services such as better grades. But, like lunch, communication is not a free good.

The costs are (1) the opportunities given up when time is expended on communicating; (2) the increase in the probability of revealing ignorance; and (3) unfortunate labels (brown-nosing or grade-grubbing) attached to individuals by their peers. Efforts to communicate should respond positively to an increase in perceived benefits (the first three items mentioned above) or to a decrease in perceived costs (the last three items mentioned). But perceived benefits may understate actual benefits, and anticipated costs may exceed actual costs. These biases will indeed make for too little communication among students, between student and professor, and among faculty members themselves. (For purposes of analysis it is assumed that administrators are incidental).

Our attempts to increase the demand for communication or to reduce its costs and our efforts to correct these biases between perceptions and reality may prove consequential. The most important benefit may be a reduction in campus pollution through a narrowing of the gap between private and social costs.

Postscript: Communication implies exchange and is not a one-way transaction. Nevertheless, a recent statement in this paper decried professors’ lowly efforts to communicate through warmed-over casseroles at the old home places. Although there are some, I suspect that many students have never bothered to respond to these efforts by even small gestures such as inviting a professor over to the dorm (read “home” in studentese) for a chat or a coke perhaps, or to an eating club or the Union, or for a walk to the post office, or by doing anything at all. Could it be that these students perceive the costs of using time in this way as too high relative to the benefits received?

(Continued from page 11)

On Tuesday, December 16, volunteers will...

The Center must raise $15,000—$7,000 each year to maintain and improve itself. Specifically, it needs money for outdoor equipment, more aid scholarships, and building repairs. Some of this money the Y hopes to collect from the students.

Despite the Day Care Center’s proximity, surely 90 percent of the student body has never seen the building, much less its work. How can one expect a response to such a “distant” cause? Yet, the Y has put their finger on both a sore spot and a center of potential. The students at Davidson, despite fashionable moanings, are not in financial straits. If they are, it is usually a matter of choice, not necessity. I would be the last person to rest any argument on the so-called “Christmas spirit.” Frankly, Christmas as it is practiced, represents many of the things I most resent. I am also extremely distrustful of the motives of most...‘‘Giving.’’ Charity as a conscience soother for lack of ‘real’ involvement does indeed seem cheap. But, just like money, giving is not ‘‘bad’’ in itself. On the contrary, directed toward productive ends, it represents a huge amount of potential good. Over the next week, the Y is attempting to ‘‘sell’’ its concern. Kids from the center will share in the Thursday coffee, the Thursday lunch group will organize solicitors, announcements will be made in canvass upperclassmen/women, eating clubs, faculty, and staff. Freshman halls will compete for the largest contributions. The total will then be posted in Chambers and the Union and announced on WDAV. The 1975 Xmas fund is the first project of the new set of officers in the Y. They obviously have an uphill fight. Sneering at its disorganization, students feel comfortable in ignoring its failure. Never tracing any negative effects to their own lack of concern, most students regard such projects as “The Depot” as bureaucratic blunders. Financial charity is certainly no end in itself. There are other ‘‘powers’’ latent in the Davidson student body which are ignored for various and equally trifling reasons. Yet, a show of concern toward the 1975 Xmas fund can only be seen as a step in the right direction. The new officers in the Y are asking for an approval of their enthusiasm, some signal that, if informed, people can change. An outright condemnation of material comfort would be foolish. That new pair of top-siders may certainly serve its purpose. But, a little somewhat unselfish giving can hardly do harm. Though we may deny it, there is ‘‘power’’ among the student body, some in forms equally as valuable though slightly less tangible than money. We can certainly use the one. This is also a challenge to tap the other. Local churches and tours of the center will be given.

Little Library stands in the center of Davidson life partly by a process of elimination. Where can the Davidson student, after all, spend his time? He or she can sit in a dormitory room twiddling his or her thumbs, or maybe even reading or writing (perhaps even in an extra-academic sense). But this becomes depressing to anyone: dormitories are impersonal (if you have seen one you have seen them all, as the adage runs), and claustrophobic. Where, then, can the student go? The gym is one popular outlet: frustration, or even a growing beer stomach can all be worked away. This can only be done, though, at the risk of being trampled by scores of other athletic students, not to mention irate and possessive coaches. The natural place for Davidson students to go is the Union. There the student can gulp down beer at forty cents a go, play pool, pinball, and fussball, or munch the best ARA can offer at not-so-reasonable prices. The Union, though, sadly enough is a none too busy place on weeknights and many weekends. Eventually, our sad student, facing mounting work (done or undone) ends up in the library. Here is a place where—if you avoid the 7:00 pm rush hour—you may visit with all your friends, and communally experience the pressures and toils of tests and term papers.

This library-centered attitude has had many bad consequences. Unfortunately, the Union (remember our new Union) has been neglected. When it receives the attention it deserves, the Davidson student applies the same zeal to it that he does to the library. When not grade hunting, students can be hell-raising—and by most indications, we are quite good at both. Unfortunately, also, the library is not what it should be. It is not a sacred avatar of ideals of learning; it is not a temple where a half million books are housed. Instead, to many, the library is a place where work is done—mechanically, unpleasantly—completely oblivious of the books surrounding them. The library to many is a factory where they toil daily, where tables, chairs, and carrels are available, and where stacks of books provide a bit of privacy (and some comfort from those awesome ceilings).

Where, then, does this leave the Davidson student? At the first opportunity, that is on ‘‘big’’ weekends, or maybe ‘‘small’’ weekends (the distinction oftentimes eludes me), students may march away from the library, and try to forget about it for a few days. But Sunday night comes too quickly, and we are back to where we started. The point of all this is not to discourage work in the library, but quite the contrary: the library should not be abhorred. Perhaps what we need is a healthier approach to it and to the other aspects of academic and social life that Davidson offers, a change that would shift and diffuse the center of life away from the library.