“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.” --Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Mark Wilensky
Executive Editor, Managing Editor

FOUR
JANUARY 23, 1975

Goal Reaching

Although we support President Spencer’s move to establish a goals committee to help determine priorities for the college, we recognize
that our first priority is fund raising. Until we have a commitment from the president of the college to seek
more actively outside funds for Davidson, a goals committee is no more than a paper lion.

In a memo to certain faculty and staff members, the president has attempted to pit groups seeking art facilities against
groups seeking improved chemistry facilities. If this is a maneuver to discredit one priority for the sake of the other,
we don’t buy it. There is no reason that an institution such as Davidson should deprive the community of either
of these two structures or many of the other facilities and programs ranking high on our priority list.

President Spencer maintains that every act he performs is one of fund raising. While we appreciate his cognizance that public
relations is a vital aspect of his position, we agree with the Self-Study report assertion that at least half of
those public relations acts include applying for grants and soliciting new money for Davidson.

We stand solidly behind Vice President for Development Craven Williams and his entire staff in their work to solicit funds.
We further support plans to increase the size of our present development staff. At a time when the national economic
picture is not particularly conducive to fund raising, we must make Annual Fund Director James McFarland’s assertion, “Sometimes adversity brings
out the best in Davidson,” the reality of our finance campaign. Yet we recognize that the leading role in soliciting
new funds centers in the office of the president. We call upon Dr. Spencer to increase his personal commitment and
activity in this area. His proposal for establishment of a goals committee is sound and much appreciated, but the question
as to whether this committee will have the teeth of a lion or the worth of tear-drenched toilet tissue depends
solely on his direction of a financial program that leaves this committee options. We have no place for a paper
lion; we need an aggressive animal with teeth.

By Our Own Admission

What justifications are provided for the policies which Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White executes? White is
not sure how much money will be needed to fund the 1975-76 financial aid program. Yet, he is sure that
a significant number of substantial need applicants will not be admitted in the Class of ’79. Dr. Spencer states that
a financial aid program can operate in one of two ways. It can attempt to meet the full need of
a limited number of students or the partial need of a greater number. How has Davidson made this decision?

In many U.S. colleges, the financial aid and admissions offices are manned by different staffs. At Davidson, admissions decisions are
not made until the Parents’ Confidential Statement of income is also analyzed.

According to our college administrators, the structure of any financial aid program is grounded on various value assumptions. We need
to know what these assumptions are. No responsible evaluation of admissions and financial aid policies can be made until the
relevant issues are openly discussed.

Unresolved Issues Face Senate After Semi-Successful Year

The past year has witnessed a large number of students contributing a vast amount of time toward many student government
endeavors. I personally have relied to a great extent on persons outside the structure of the Senate, because I have
frequently found that other people have had strong convictions and greater energies, especially in the areas of academic reform, campus
planning, and community problems. Looking back on the year, I must question the wisdom of that decision a bit, because
I now see a Senate which has not realized its fullest potential and which is losing its identity. This is
one area where I challenge the new SGA President to do a better job. We have, however, accomplished a good
deal during the past year—much of obvious import and some not so apparent. Considering the fact that the students and
the Senate possess little real “power,” I am pleased with what has been done. We have made major strides (hiring
a clinical psychologist, an honor campaign with the Hearing Committee, approval for beer sales on campus, a new registration process,
new plans for the Grey Union, long range calendar plans, a new proposal for the physical education requirement, and continued
support for the Departmental Advisory Committees) as well as lesser victories (this year’s calendar change, 5¢ Xeroxing, car pooling to
the airport).

We have brought to campus the President of the National Student Association and the Executive Director of the National Student
Lobby. We have affiliated Davidson with both of these organizations. We have contributed a colossal amount of time, energy, and
vigorous discussion into Davidson’s Institutional Self-Study and into a complete overhauling of the By-laws which...govern the Student Government Association. The
Senate has transcended its political mold by financially supporting the activities of the Outing Club, the APO Bookstore, the Davidson
Christian Fellowship, the YM/WCA Youth Center, the Cheerleading Squad, and the Debate Team. But the year has been far from
utopian for student efforts. We failed to obtain an optional laundry fee. We failed to see any new student housing,
erected or intended. The drop-add period is still only 6 days long and there is no means for a student
to eradicate an “F” from his transcript. Night exams have been tabled, the Centrex telephone system remains unresolved, and no
visible progress has resulted from our cries to improve housing in the community of Davidson.

The single major area of activity during the past year which I consider to be most important is our efforts
to delineate student rights at this college. The controversy over the yearbook this fall and the enactment of the “Buckley
Amendment” regarding the release of student records have pinpointed a question first raised by the reorganization of our campus governance
structure over the past 4 years, and that is: What rights, responsibilities, and privileges do the students of Davidson College
possess— inherently, legally, and granted by the college— and how can we guarantee the future protection of these rights? Since
October there has been vigorous discussion in this area and we are attempting to delineate the rights and responsibilities in
a Student Bill of Rights. We must unite to see this statement approved by the end of the academic year
in a document accepted by the faculty, administration, and Trustees. That day will be historic for students and one which
we must witness.

The saddest thing to me about the past year is that we have been unable to get the college as
a whole to realize that the Davidson of 1970 will not serve the Davidson of 1980. It has been a
full two and a half years since Davidson committed itself to coeducation and a student enrollment increased by 500. Yet
since that time we have constructed no new student housing; no new chemistry, biology, or fine arts facilities; minuscule additions
to the gymnasium; and we have suffered the 24 years with a painfully deficient college union building. I’m afraid that
this is an all too apt example of an occurrence which is all too frequent: namely, the students are being
made to suffer for the lack of administrative planning. We are the ones whose social life has been curtailed. We
are the ones studying in antiquated science facilities. And we are the ones cramped for housing space. I can only
temper my dismay with bitterness, because we as students have been urging and planning for campus expansion since 1972, and
the Administration has been dragging its feet.

The realizations that Patterson Court has outgrown its boundaries and that the future of the Davidson National Print and Drawing
Competition (the nation’s largest!) is in jeopardy, both due to inadequate facilities, are further testimony to the unthinking inaction on
the part of some college officials. Our only recourse as students is to become more unified in our efforts, more
persuasive in our argumentation, and more firm in our convictions. We must be persistent in obtaining information, logical in assimilating
it, and resolute in our pressing for much-needed change. As the least unified and most vulnerable of all the constituent
groups of the college, we students must exert even greater efforts to ensure that our opinions are heard and incorporated
in college policy. If we are not able to commit our time and our energies in a large-scale way, we
will not be able to hold our own ground.

I do not want to end on too sour a note, and I also want to issue a public thanks
to the individuals who most helped me during the past year: So to Brad Swalwell, Bo Hunter, Steve Canterbury, Sara
Penland, John Munce, Hansford Epes, Rick Roylance, Jerry Godbehere, Grover Meetze, and Jack Bevan, thank you. 1974 was possible for
me with your help.
