November 7, 1975

The Davidsonian

Writing experience fulfills urge to answer back

By DAVID RICHARDSON
Associate Editor

There are many lesser-known personal pursuits of the Davidson College student. One of the less recognized, lesser understood, and least
attempted is, unfortunately, the experience of writing. To many students, the term “writing” easily conjures images of long hours, black
instant coffee, sleepless nights, and broken deadlines. In short, unwanted and tedious delirium of effort. Perhaps even another classic liberal
perversion, as if there aren't enough. Wait. There’s more. Davidson may bang you into chiseling away on all-night term papers,
but Davidson bangs you into just about everything, so that’s nothing new. The amount of personal frustration, anxiety, and breakdown
at this school is overwhelming—allowing for seasonal adjustment, of course. This, hopefully, begets much overt critical response and covert re-evaluation.
But what too few people have discovered is that a traumatic college experience can spawn creative expression—in the form of
writing.

Some of the best people I know and admire on this campus write because something hurts—a hurt inside, outside, or
both. And the reason I consider them the best people is because they’ve found a creative outlet, a transcendent solution
to the mess they find themselves in here, time after time. Writing doesn't mean term papers. It means letters, stories,
poems, plays, diaries—even graffiti. There are countless opportunities to begin, and even more to continue. And written expression doesn’t have
to be limited to private closets of smeared notebook paper. Various extensions of the Davidson system beg for contribution: The
Davidsonian (with emphasis), The Miscellany, Inside Art, Quips and Cranks, the poetry circuit, the drama department, tutorials. If this isn’t
enough, grab your favorite professor, classmate, girl/boyfriend and appeal for a reading. Use them all, particularly the English department. They’re
paid to be there, and if they insist upon telling you that they don’t have the time, say that because
of them you didn’t have time to write—but you did. Answer back to Davidson. Put it down on paper. Take
the worst they can give and use it to your fullest advantage: write. Express yourself in terms of your situation
here—good and bad. It doesn’t really matter whether you're a hard-core pre-med, a callous businessman, or a pretentious English major.
What does matter is that you experience some form of creative expression between the time you filled out your Davidson
College application form, and the time you pledge your last exam.

Gloom befalls two ill-fated students

By ANNE FICKLEN
Features Editor

It was another bluster and gale rattling out ill-fitting casements and adding to the stinking mud and stagnant pools of
water in the ruts of tractors outside our lone window. Maybe it was the organ dirges playing in the background,
or the collection of crazed student stories I was reading to my roommate; plots where an ill-fated European studies too
long, refuses to admit he has brain fever and is forced to grapple head-on with evil, but somehow there was
gloom in the air. Looming above me was our loft, a depressing pile of darkened boards where my roommate’s disembodied
voice lived. “My sentence,” she screamed, “It’s crawling up my leg, it’s wrap-

Golden begins boycott of all Warner Brothers discs

To the Editor:

This Monday evening, WDAV joined with the over 700 member stations of the Intercollegiate Broadcasting System in the boycott of
Warner Brothers’ records. During the first three weeks in November, IBS member stations will refrain from the air-playing of any
recording on the Warner Brothers or Reprise labels. This boycott is the system’s response to the termination of promotional services
to all but the largest college radio stations. It is only through this service that we have been ableTo keep
up to date with the new releases on the Warner Brothers-Reprise labels, we are asking members of the college community
to help us have this vital service restored. If you have the time, we request you write to Warner Brothers
Records at the following address:

Warner Bros. Records
ATTN: Gary Davis
3300 Warner Blvd.
Burbank, Calif. 91505

Your help in this matter would free our limited funds to be used for the improvement of our broadcasting.

Jack Golden ’77
WDAV Station Manager
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

“It’s five paragraphs and growing!” Beating it off with a red pencil, I felt the loft swaying. “Nonsense,” I said
to myself. “It’s just the creak of hanging plants.” Then the paper clips started. For weeks above us, someone had
been dropping five-pound paper clips over his floor at five-minute intervals. “It’s the clips!” came the voice from above. “Nonsense,”
I stated firmly. “Just some heavy fairy dust, or someone playing with jacks.” “Baloney, they’d have to have metal—” the
voice was drowned out by an incessant thud on the wall next to my bed, which almost managed to drown
out the stereo seeping in from some undisclosed location and the perpetual dribble-thump of the basketball outside our window. “The
vibrations are shaking the loft, I feel it tottering, my light is wiggling!” “Nonsense,” I replied, “you’re imagining again. Still
believe you heard noises from the basement last night? Still taking notes in the shape of coffins? Are you going
to go down to the laundry again and ask for clean shrouds?”

“Quick, hear the banging?” she cried as the pipes went into their nightly castanet show. “And the door, it’s been
rattling constantly for the past ten minutes!” All this was impossible to deny, the noises had built up to a
frenzied peak—the thud on my wall, the basketball, the giant paper clips, the pipes’ prowess on the castanets, the jangling
of an unanswered phone, and the incessant rattling of the door which increased in fervor as doors slammed along the
hall and we heard the plunk of cokes coming out of the machine. I felt a rattle, as if the
whole dorm was slipping into the mud. “Nonsense,” I stated again feebly. “It’s only atmospheric pressure in the hall—” I
stopped short. All this noise, it had to mean something, there was something astir and it was malevolent. The stories
I had been reading to my roommate came back to mind. Here was the clue. Outside, lurking somewhere in this
creaking dorm, an evil spirit lay in wait. I looked again and saw the loft was swaying in earnest, and
suddenly I knew what had to be done. We had escaped so far, but we were finally being driven to
desperate measures.

“Quick,” I cried. “Grab your books, find your note cards, snatch a jar of coffee and put on your shoes.
There is destruction in this room tonight.” “But where to?” cried my roommate frantically. “Not, not to—oh, now I know
there is evil in the world.” “Yes, off your bed and get dressed. We must go to the library.” It
was a grim flight, loaded down, fleeing from the comforts of home. We turned back and saw our loft slide
out the window into the stinking construction mess, and heard the sudden blare of a stereo, accompanied by a strangely
frightening, triumphant laugh. We looked at each other silently. “Dare we ever return?” my companion asked. “Perhaps,” I said levelly.
“But not until after exams.”
