the davidsonian | December 12, 1975

Matthew Covington makes no attempt to hide the enjoyment of being unopposed for The Davidsonian editorship. Covington will organize the
paper around a new staff.
-Leon Venable

College to retain laundry services
Senate questions
By STEPHEN BELL
Senior News Editor

At the SGA Senate meeting Tuesday night, Senator Carol Watkins presented the final plans for a school-wide poll on laundry
and security issues. In studying an investigation of the laundry undertaken in the Senate two years ago, Watkins discovered that
some promised policy changes were not going to be put into effect.

Parking fee refunds
All Davidson students who received $10 parking fines last term may obtain $5 refunded from their fines by filing a
claim in the SGA office between 9 am Monday, December 15, and 5 pm Friday, December 19. Even those students
who have yet to pay their $10 fines should file a claim for a refund at the SGA office.

“It turns out they aren’t going to phase out the laundry,” said Watkins, “despite what Currie (College Business Manager Robert
Currie) told us two years ago.” SGA President John Munce is supporting Watkins in her effort to poll student opinion
on the laundry. Munce said, “We're going to pick up on this, trying to get the student point-of-view and trying
to resolve this once and for all.”

The poll will also deal with some security issues. “In this we are trying to find out what our exact
feelings are on this and what we are willing to give up to get better security,” explained Munce.

In other business at the meeting Tuesday night, Munce reported that Director of Athletics Thomas Cartmill would like to see
a committee of students work to foster better communication between students and the Athletic Department. The Senate had no objection,
and an athletic grievance committee is now being organized.

At the Senate meeting on the previous Thursday (December 4), Andrew Lamas reported that the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee had
accepted the SGA Senate’s recommendation on ‘Incom-

DRAFT $.25
WOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHED
THURSDAY COVER $1.00
FRIDAY COVER $2.00 (LADIES FREE)
SATURDAY COVER $2.50
LIVE MUSIC WED THRU SAT
HSGOOMG3HSGOOMGSHSGOOMd3HSGOOMO3H
WOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHEDWOODSHED
1105 NORTH MAIN STREET MOORESVILLE
HAPPY HOUR EVERY NITE FROM 8 - 9
DRAFT $.15 WEDNESDAY
WED NITE IS BEER NITE - COVER $1.00
CANS $.35
SCOOMGSHSCOOMGSHSCOOMGSHSGOOMGSHSGOOMGSHSA

Covington accepts editor's position without competition
By MARK DEATON
Editor-in-Chief

Matthew Covington will officially take over the editorship of The Davidsonian in January. He is unopposed in the current campus-wide
election. Covington has been on the staff of the campus paper for two years, serving as assistant managing editor, assistant
news editor, and news editor. He is now executive editor of the publication.

Covington plans several changes in The Davidsonian but particularly hopes to organize the production of the paper. “I am in
the enviable position of having a brand new staff. Because no one has been with the paper long, we hopefully
have no bad habits. What we lack in experience is surely made up in exuberance. We are going to be
just fine,” said Covington.

“I have already increased the size of the production staff, which means that we will have more people in the
print shop each week to lay the paper out. There will be a sharp delineation of what each person is
to do, and even more importantly, when he is to do it,” continued Covington.

According to Covington, the increase in staff size will itself lead to organization. “We are going to have to be
pretty sharp about what we are doing because otherwise there is a chance that we would be falling all over
ourselves,” said Covington.

Another goal for the new staff of The Davidsonian will be to take the paper to the Davidson student body.
Covington feels that some students who would like to work with the paper do not because they don’t know that
the paper is open to them. “Because we have meetingsComplete grade policy. According to Lamas, one of the student representatives
on the EPC, the deadline for submission of final grades to change "Incomplete" will not be changed after all. Also,
at the meeting of December 4, Marc Menchel reported on the procedures he has worked out for refunds on old
$10 parking tickets.

"And people who work for us regularly have titled positions, a lot of students think The Davidsonian is a closed
group," said Covington. "The Davidson student is an opinionated beast. The Davidsonian has always wanted to be a forum for
Davidson opinion. I hope anyone will feel free to write or simply to come by the office and talk about
what is on his mind. We are anything but a closed organization," continued Covington.

Evaluating the paper technically, Covington feels confident that The Davidsonian can be improved. "Because we changed printers this year and
because we have our own type-setting machines, The Davidsonian looks very good. I believe that my special contribution will be
improving what the paper prints. By organizing strict deadlines for copy and setting up a reliable paste-up schedule, The Davidsonian
will be able to improve itself immensely in the areas of writing, campus coverage, and typographical error," said Covington. "We
should also have a better time producing the paper if responsibilities are set because the paper we put out will
be first rate and we will be functioning efficiently," Covington added.

"For too long The Davidsonian has been some sort of a thing that had to be wrestled to the ground
and hog-tied each week. I believe we will straighten this out and make the paper better by accepting more responsible
control over it," Covington concluded.

---

College Union awaits monies for completion of new building

By LARRY MIMMS
Managing Editor

"All of the money allocated for Union renovation has been spent. This is why we have not put the final
touches on the building," said Director of College Union C. Shaw Smith. "I have a list of 43 minor building
improvements. Most of these building improvements are incidental yet important things that give flavor to the building and make it
livable," said Smith.

Smith and Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze Jr. will meet with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. before Christmas
to discuss obtaining college funding. Smith expressed optimism about chances for obtaining college moneys. "We realize that money is tight,
but I don’t believe the college fathers are going to let us dangle," said Smith.

A student photographic darkroom, office rooms for Quips and Cranks, The Miscellany, and other student publications, and a multi-purpose recreational
room have not been constructed due to lack of funds. Smith hopes to install a specially-designed sound system and permanent
lighting in the 900 Room. Directional signs, a central directory of rooms, and a calendar display showing location and date
of events occurring months in the future are planned for Union Lobby areas. Tables, lamps, tack boards, magazine racks, and
colorful banners will be added to selected Union rooms when the budget allows, according to Smith.

"With these improvements, students will want to spend more time here. We hope to have more things for a person
to do on his own, watch TV, talk and lounge comfortably, read magazines, activities that aren’t programmed," said Smith. "We
also hope to be able to have community meetings and programs at the College Union. The community is welcome here,"
he said.
