September 26, 1975

The Davidsonian

A JAR: Pens and pencils overflow
-Robert Trawick

Secretarial cup. Rares Maidens seek enlightened work handbook, job posting

By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

The Chambermaids, a local group of secretaries, clerks, and stenographers, have presented the college administration with a set of three
proposals concerning the posting of jobs and other conditions of employment. The organization was formed in January 1975, in order
to establish an official line of communication between its members and the college administration. Although the Chambermaids do not represent
all members of the secretarial and clerical staffs, the organization has been able to gather almost universal support among its
peers concerning three basic issues.

Higher parking fine levied, Traffic Court remains liberal

By RUSS MARTIN
Staff Writer

Parking fines have gone up this year from five to ten dollars for on-campus violations. Restrictions on parking have also
been changed, and as many students are finding out every day, they are being enforced. Allan Malcolm, working under the
SGA through the Security Committee, issued 50 tickets in one morning during the first few days of school. However, the
number of tickets issued is declining drastically (from eight to ten daily) as students become familiar with the regulations.

“Ten dollars for a parking fine is a rip-off,” said college Cashier Sally Washam, but as Traffic Court member Zach
Long said, “No one has to worry about a fine if he follows the rules.” The reason for the increased
fine is not to take in more money, according to Long. “The higher you raise the fine, the lower your
revenue is, because there are not as many violations,” he maintained. A five dollar fine in past years did not
seem to deter students from parking in service entrances, on the grass, and in fire lanes, resulting in inconvenience, damage
to college property, and safety hazards, according to Patrolman O.S. Carter. The Security Committee gave the recommendation to the college
to increase the fines and set new restrictions last spring. The new policy took effect with the start of this
school year, but it was not approved by the SGA Senate until Tuesday night, Sept. 15. Those who received tickets
within the six days before the SGA Senate approved the new parking policy will be charged under the new policy,
according to Long.

Parking on the grass (anywhere not paved or graveled), parking near dumpsters, or in any other areas marked off by
yellow lines, is illegal. Other areas have been designated “no parking” areas with new signs. Parking stickers must be obtained
within 48 hours of the arrival of a motor vehicle on campus. If a car is ticketed within that period,
students can take the matter to traffic court, which meets in room 121 Chambers on first and third Tuesdays. “I
think you can say this is a fairly liberal traffic court as far as letting people off who have a
legitimate excuse,” Long said.

During this past summer, officers of the Chambermaids submitted to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. a letter requesting the
administration to set employment guidelines concerning job openings. “We asked the president to require department heads and the personnel office
to work together in making sure that when there is a job opening, the opening should be made public information
to everyone at Davidson. This should be done by placing a written notice announcing the employment opportunity on the designated
bulletin board on the first floor of Chambers,” explained one secretary. Spencer and Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson approved the
Chambermaids’ request and such procedures concerning job posting are now official personnel policies. The Chambermaids’ action was prompted in part
by several past administrative actions which involved offering employment to staff personnel without previously posting information concerning the job.Vacancies. Presently,
the secretaries have no manual or employment handbook which they may consult in order to gain information concerning salaries, benefits,
job descriptions, requirements for promotion, or qualifications for merit pay increases. “As it now stands, we really have no official
statement concerning the terms or conditions of our employment. In addition to including wage definitions in the handbook, it should
also contain information concerning job descriptions—so that responsibilities match pay scales. Some secretaries, clerks, and stenographers have more responsibilities than
others but get paid less in wages,” remarked a secretary.

The Chambermaids requested last spring that Stephenson begin working on compiling a handbook for all hourly-paid staff members. As of
today, work on the handbook has not begun. Stephenson explains the delay: “Because of a reduction in secretarial personnel in
this office (personnel office), we were unable to start on the handbook as we would have liked to have done.
But I’ve talked to Dr. Spencer and he’s agreed to put some part-time assistance in this office.” Stephenson assured this
reporter that work on the handbook would begin within the next two months, or by Monday, November 24, 1975. In
addition, Stephenson stated that the handbook would be completed by the beginning of Spring Term, or by March 8, 1976.
The Personnel Director also remarked that the handbook should include information concerning job descriptions, wage scales, and benefits. Several secretaries
agreed that the job categories are at present “so confused and jumbled” that a complete (See Secretaries, page 15).

Watts engineers WDAV broadcast
By MARK GERGAN
Staff Writer

WDAV returned to the air this fall with a new director, Jack Golden, and in some confusion over whether or
not the station would be able to broadcast at all. The difficulty arose from the requirement that a 10 Watt
station must have a chief engineer with a first or second class license. Don Smith, who graduated last year, previously
had been chief engineer. “The test to get a license is pretty complex,” stated Golden, “so we felt that it
would be better to go outside of ourselves to get a new chief engineer.” Some difficulty was experienced in finding
an engineer, and up until 5:00 the first night of Freshman Orientation there was no engineer. “Ed Stanton of WHIP
in Mooresville agreed to do it for a week, so we were able to go on the air. But this
would only have been until last Saturday night,” added Golden. “Finally Jeff Watts, who works for WIST, agreed to do
it for $1,000 for a nine-month period.” Golden went on to comment that Watts' duties primarily consist of signing his
name to the broadcast sheet and adjusting the transmitter every two or three months. “All we really need is his
name,” added Golden. The money will come from appropriations and would normally have gone for new equipment.

Golden discovered that he was the new director of WDAV this summer, after he found out that the previous director
Mark Wilensky would be unable to continue in that position. In a letter to the staff and the Board of
Directors of the station, Wilensky stated that he would be unable to resume his position this fall because of work
in the Davidson Legal Aid Society. Golden stated, “Mark was careful in setting up the organization so it wouldn’t depend
on one person. Losing Mark makes it hard, but the radio station will get by.” Changes planned for this year
are Omnibus, increased news coverage, and hopefully trying to get more community listeners. Omnibus is really a news wrap-up, with
major campus and community news from that week, and mention of upcoming events.
