September 26, 1975

The Davidsonian

Booters Edged By Cavs, Face Tar Heels Tomorrow

By DAVE WILEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson soccer team traveled to Virginia only to return home on the short end of a 3-1 score. Coach
Chip Stone cited the soggy field as the main factor in the loss. “The wet field definitely limited our ball
control game,” he said, “but we should be able to perform under any conditions.” Stone added that Virginia did a
good job of “forcing us out of our game.”

The Wildcats dominated the action most of the way. The Cats netted the game’s initial goal about twenty minutes into
the first half. Davidson’s Paul Schleifer scored about five minutes later to tie the score. The Cats were in charge
the rest of the half, but trailed 2-1 at the intermission on what Stone called “a helluva play by the
referee.” With about two minutes left in the half, Virginia had a corner kick. Just as the ball was kicked,
the substitution horn sounded. All the Davidson players stopped, but a Cavalier headed the ball into the net. After a
considerable debate, the goal was allowed. “So instead of going into the second half with the momentum and a tied
score, we were behind and mentally down,” noted Stone.

The Cats were in control again during much of the second half but could not put the ball into the
net. When Virginia scored with less than ten minutes to go, the Cats were virtually doomed. Stone labeled the defensive
efforts of Gary Dancigar and Phil Barringer outstanding and also credited goalie Bob Perz with a fine performance. “We made
three mistakes and they capitalized on them,” he commented. “And they took the middle of the field away from us,
Tommy Blackwood (center forward) was not even a factor in the game.”

The Cats will try once more to get into the win column tomorrow in a home contest against the University
of North Carolina.

Starting the break: Tom Blackwood gets a play started for the ’Cats in a 11 -Pete Goodman

Athletic Heads Discuss New Policy

By JIM SITTERSON
Sports Editor

For the first time in two years, representatives of the administration, faculty, trustees, athletic department, and Wildcat Club met last
week to discuss Davidson's athletic program. “It was a roundtable type of discussion which dealt with two basic areas,” said
Athletic Director Thom Cartmill. “We discussed the progress made in...

Young Buck to go

Duncan Winds Up Athletic Career

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Staff Writer

As versatile in sports as he is talented, Joe Duncan’s career in Davidson athletics would be difficult to surpass. Duncan
has accumulated a total of 11 letters in soccer, football, baseball, and basketball as well as being a perennial standout
in IMAC competition. Probably best known for his kicking abilities in football, the senior booted a 52-yard field goal last
year against Hampden-Sydney, setting a school record.

Not content with just participating in sports, he has co-authored an IMAC sports column for The Davidsonian over the past
three years, as well as coached the girls’ basketball team in its initial two seasons. Spending so much time in
athletics, Duncan has a special insight in the area of sports at Davidson. On the subject of de-emphasizing the football
program, he feels that it was a good move that will benefit the entire Davidson sports program. “This places more
emphasis on the minor sports and Davidson has a great future in things like golf and baseball---sports that other schools
don't throw their whole budget into,” Duncan pointed out.

Davidson's high academic standards can pose serious problems when trying to recruit top-notch athletes in both football and basketball and
Duncan believes that steps should be taken to remedy this situation. “I think that Davidson is pretty good about taking
people who have something to offer besides high SATs,” he stated. “But lowering the academic standards for athletes is necessary
to compete successfully in football and...basketball.” When not playing sports, Duncan is coaching them. And he led the girls' basketball
team to the state playoffs last year. The school was warned, however, that coaches could not be undergraduates and that
Davidson was in violation of the rules. As of yet, a new coach has not been named for the girls'
team. Duncan is understandably upset by the school's inaction. “This is a bitter point with me because the school is
doing a good job of sloughing the matter off right now,” Duncan stated. “Practice starts in less than a month
and they don’t even have a coach yet. The girls are excellent players and besides, they're hot dogs just like
everyone else. They like to play in front of people.”

When Duncan completes his academic career and leaves Davidson at the end of this quarter, he plans to take a
shot at pro football as a kicking specialist. But even after he has departed, the legend of “Young Buck” will
remain with the students. “Captain America and Y.B.” co-authored the IMAC sports column in The Davidsonian for three years, which
was an extremely popular Davidson institution. Duncan's former roommate, Gregg Dunn, became Captain America after a particularly disheartening freshman mixer
with Queens, which prompted him to put on a costume resembling that of the comic book hero Captain America. Later
in the year, Duncan's freshman hall decreed that he become C.A.’s helper—Young Buck. “They dressed me up in a black
wet suit with a cape and a baseball bat,” Duncan recalls. “C.A. would dictate the punishment and I would beat
the offenders with my bat.” C.A. is gone and Y.B. will leave after fall break, but not before making one
final prediction on the championship of A-league basketball. “It’s gonna be the SAF’s and the THI’s all the way,” the
flamer exclaimed.

PONDERING THE FUTURE: Joe Duncan appears content in his superhero role. The entire athletic program at Davidson was examined with
an eye towards the future. At the last meeting of this nature, the football program was radically changed. The school
decided to drop out of contention for the Southern Conference championship, scholarships on a need basis were established, and a
more competitive schedule in line with these changes was agreed upon. “We've got another year to go before we can
come to any definite conclusions about these changes,” Cartmill said. With a new program and a new coach, Cartmill felt
that it would not be fair to pass any judgment upon football without giving the program several years to become
settled.

The possibility of elevating one of Davidson’s minor sports to a major sport status was brought up, according to Cartmill.
“We discussed the feasibility of making golf or tennis a major sport,” Cartmill admitted. “All of our opponents in these
sports provide scholarships while we don’t. So if we were to emphasize another sport it would logically be in one
of these areas, especially tennis where we have such a good facility.” Cartmill said that the meeting also recognized the
need for a new athletic facility in the future, but that nothing was formally organized in that direction. Although there
is a definite need for a new athletic facility at Davidson, it must take a back seat at least until
the problem of student housing has been taken care of. “I think it is important that we should start some
formal planning in this direction though,” Cartmill stated. By formal planning, Cartmill meant that a list of necessary facilities and
the spaces needed to house them should be drawn up. The stress in any new athletic facility will be placed
on, “recreational needs of the student body,” he said. Cartmill felt that any new facility should include more (See POLICY,
page 13).
