February 20, 1975

Three THE Davidsonian

Inventory Shows 304 Missing Books

By JOHN WOOD
Staff Writer

304 books are missing from the E.H. Little Library that have not been checked out and may cost the library at least $4,080 to replace. This figure is a result of the 1974 library inventory. A conservative estimate of about $12 per volume is figured by the library staff.

“We are one of the few colleges that take a full inventory every year,” reminded Library Director Chalmers G. Davidson. He added that the inventory program was aggressive and that shelves were checked at least three times for missing books before the end of the inventory.

“Those few students involved in these losses should go to Harvard where the library checks meticulously those leaving,” said Davidson. “It’s a privilege for students at Davidson; if we have to watch like a big university, they might as well go to a big university.”

“25 or so may show up over the next couple of years,” according to Davidson. “We have even received some books anonymously in the mail.” A few missing books could be classified as collectors items.

Exam Procedure

The college calendar calls for exams to be taken February 24, 25, 26, 27. Not all professors use the self-scheduled procedures described here, so each student should determine definitely the exam arrangements for each course. If self-scheduled procedures are used, then the following instructions apply.

The examination envelopes turned in earlier in the week will be available to you during each examination session on February 24, 25, 26, 27. You do not need to specify in advance when you will write a particular exam. Go to Chambers Banquet Hall between 8:40 and 9:15 for morning sessions and 1:40 and 2:15 for afternoon sessions and ask for the envelope containing the exam you want to take at that time. The envelopes will be arranged alphabetically by the student’s name. The yellow-bordered card will be detached and retained by the examination staff.

Go to any classroom in Chambers Building and write the exam; please note that room 310 in Chambers is to be used exclusively by students authorized by the professor to use tables, charts, etc. The envelope, with red-bordered card still attached and containing the questions and your answers, may be returned to the examination center as early as 9:45 for the morning and 2:45 for the afternoon and must be returned before the deadline of 12:15 for the morning and 5:15 for the afternoon. The honor pledge must be signed at the examination center table as you turn in the exam envelope. The yellow-bordered card, now receipted by the examination center, will be given to you; hold that card until a grade for the course is received; in case of any irregularity, it is your evidence that you turned in the exam envelope containing exam materials.

The college will continue to use the Student Instruction Report as an instrument of course evaluation. You will receive one from each of your professors. Please complete it and remember that you must turn it in when you get your exam envelope at the Examination Center in Chambers Banquet Hall (or at the Registrar’s Office if you have a professor-administered exam). In the past, a good many evaluations have been invalid because of inadequate course identification. To aid this, you are requested to see to it that full identification of department, course number, and section are entered on the upper right corner of each sheet. Professor’s name and student’s name are not needed.

Registrar Richard C. Burts said, “Our continuing concern for the Honor System and the attendant strains on it occasioned by self-scheduled exams justify our soliciting continuing student support for the Honor System.”

Whatever you want, we’ve got

ARMY—NAVY STORE
Boots - Hunting and Fishing Supplies
Jeans and Work Clothes - War Surplus
Camping Equipment
Bell Bottom Jeans
Mooresville, N.C.
Ph. 664-5118
170 N. Main
Nat E. Smithsuch as The Works of President Edwards by Jonathan Edwards, vols. 1-4 and Les Rougon-Marquart by E. Zola, vols. 1-4 would cost $150 and $60, respectively, to replace. The former was an 1844 publication. Many of these rare books are finely bound and difficult to replace, according to the library staff. Of the periodicals, The Southern Literary Messenger, vol. 33, July-December 1861, is missing. “It would cost $50 to $75, if you could get the singular volume at all,” said Assistant Director Leland M. Park. During the 1972-73 school year 451 volumes were missing; in 1971-72, 360 were lost. “Students should be praised for the reduction in losses, but it’s still pretty bad,” asserted Davidson.

Burts Grandson
Registrar and Mrs. Richard C. Burts Jr. announced the birth of their third grandson last week. The baby was named Wade. He was born Feb. 10 in Greenville, S.C. weighing 7 lb. 6 oz.

Ten Students Prepare For Spring In Spain
By CHARLIE SHEPHERD
Staff Writer

On March 14th, ten Davidson students and Professor of Spanish Lois A. Kemp will gather in Madrid and begin Davidson’s first Spring term in Spain program. For the first 16 days, the group will tour several Spanish cities by train, and will participate in two major fiestas. “We’re going to take in two fiestas,” Kemp said. “The Falle Fiesta in Valencia will have bull fights, fireworks, a flower festival, and the competition for the best falle.” A falle is a large cardboard and wood figure; Kemp said that these figures sometimes are two or three stories high.

Kemp lived in Spain for three years, later spent four summers there and returned around Christmas in 1973, to begin setting up the Spain term abroad program for Davidson. She looks forward to the term as a challenging and rewarding experience for the students. The program has been approved on a temporary basis by the faculty, and will be re-evaluated after this year. Kemp hopes to alternate a term in Spain each year with a term in Latin America. “This program is for the non-major in Spanish,” she emphasized. Students majoring in Spanish are encouraged to take a year abroad.

Students going to Spain next term are Sophomores Bradley Davis, Michael Dosal, Mark Rabil, and Brian White. Freshmen are Richard Fay, Thomas Johnson, Richard Rauck, David Swain, and Robert Wallis. Junior Richard Williams also is going. In April the group will settle in Madrid, each student living with a Spanish family, and will begin three courses taught by Kemp and Professor Moises Garcia Ruiz. The courses deal with language, contemporary culture, and theater, and classes will be held in a small ecumenical seminary above a Presbyterian church.

For the language course, the students will concentrate on daily newspapers and on magazines. The contemporary culture class will study the Spaniard—the education system, home and family life, sports and leisure, and religious life. The course in theater involves reading contemporary plays and attending about one performance a week. During the traveling segment of the term, the students will study interviewing techniques and will begin interviewing some of the people they meet. The interviewing will continue throughout the term, and Kemp hopes that it will give the group a wide view of life in Spain.

The group has been meeting at Kemp’s home for several Sunday evenings in preparation for the term in Spain. Several students will be working on extended studies projects during the term, and projects range from studies of paintings and Moorish architecture to a math research project. Reasons for going on the Spain term abroad varied. Sophomore Mark Rabil commented, “I just see it as a good opportunity to become fluent in a language without being a language major—to get an education in spite of school.”

PIZZA - LASAGNE - RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
other dishes

Friday, Feb. 21
8 & 10:30 P.M.
D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Cybil Shepherd
The Last Picture Show
Ben Johnson
Love
$1.00