Eight The Davidsonian

The film directors who best exemplify the spirit of our age are Kenneth Anger, Michelangelo Antonioni, Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Jean-Luc Godard, Dusan Makaveyev, Ken Russell, and Paul Morrissey before he started trying to go Hollywood. Implicit throughout their works is an instinctive recognition that the way films were once made is exactly the way they can no longer be made, that a director who bores an audience with his good taste is a traitor both to himself and to that audience, and that the only useful purpose the old rules can serve is to remind directors of the techniques they had best not try to revive.

Like the romantic poets of the last century, these men are driven to express visions that could not be found except flickeringly in the art of their media which surrounded them in their youth. The recent works of, say, Bunuel, Fellini, and Wilder—and, one might add, the complete works of Bogdanovich—are of lesser importance because they fail to vibrate with any urgent sense of mission or exploration. These artists do not throw themselves into their works so completely as Morrissey, Russell, et al., and the result is that there simply is not as much in their works—not as much of what is important in art—intensity, perhaps, or the anguish of talent bursting forth, or the expression of human feeling—whatever.

The films of Makaveyev, Godard, and the rest affect us on certain levels even more profoundly than such classics as "Ivan the Terrible, Part I" and "Casablanca" because they speak directly to and of our condition. They will not address themselves with equal eloquence to all generations, but I suspect they will always have an edge over the films made by those directors of our age who lack the strength to incorporate what’s going on both within and without themselves into the texture of their art.

And what, pray tell, may be this “spirit of our age” (Heaven help me, but I really think we have one)? I might set down some exorbitantly melodramatic pronouncements at this point but will restrain myself for once. Quite frankly, I’ve never stuck my head outside theater doors for long enough to have accumulated any legitimate impressions on the subject. But I have noticed certain tendencies in the films of our time which distinguish them from those of other periods—tendencies which receive dazzling if not always brilliant consummations with Fassbinder, Antonioni, and the others.

Oh well, it all has to do with existentialism, man’s feeling that he needs to perceive things directly but cannot. “The psychic dislocation of modern sensibility.” The volcanic romanticism of Anger and Russell gives stylistic expression to despair over our situation, whereas the stoicism of Antonioni and Fassbinder seems to indicate acceptance, and the youthful joie de vivre of Makaveyev celebration even.

These directors make films exactly as most “critics”—John Simon, pack leader—think they should not be made. Casual viewers—again, most “critics”—take their movies for wondrously inept because on one level, the surface level, many are intentional travesties, and this is the only level the many are able to see, and even this they misinterpret.

With “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore”—note the negation in the title—Martin Scorsese steps more firmly into this hallowed group than he had managed heretofore. “Boxcar Bertha” hardly promised at all, but there was one moment in “Mean Streets” that promised mightily—a pyrotechnic camera swirl through a restaurant, one of the more precisely defined camera moments I’ve ever run across. “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore” isn’t altogether the miracle we had reason to hope for from Scorsese. It begins brilliantly with the eight-year-old Alice—in a barnyard luminously steeped in red, accompanied by a constantly roaring camera—singing and declaring herself a better vocalist than Alice Faye. As she spreads her arms and runs up the porch steps into her house, her voice vibrates on the soundtrack until it resembles a jet roar, and the image collapses to a pinpoint. Suddenly, the full width of the screen (exact dimensions variable at the discretion of your local theater manager) springs to life with the camera having a grand time among wind-machine tousled treetops in present-day New Mexico. However, by the time the camera has alighted outside the grown-up Alice’s window, the best part of the movie has passed. The whole is done up in erratic anti-rhythms, and the color scheme remains about as tacky as could be hoped for, but very little of what follows can begin to measure up to the baroque, pop-art grandeur of that opening. Scorsese’s rebellion is only partial: he seems still to subscribe to the old wives’ tale that most of a movie should be “subdued”—which usually amounts to an excuse.For dull and uninspired—so the climaxes will have something to contrast against. In this, and considering the razzle-dazzle nature of his talents, Scorsese would do well to follow the illustrious example set by Russell, who shows us that every scene can be a full-blooded climax in its own right, and that when the time comes for a real climax all bedlam can be loosed on the audience. Another problem with the film is that Scorsese more interprets than dynamites Robert Getchell’s screenplay, and dynamite is sorely needed. True, Scorsese splatters his personality all over the film, and his interpretation, for what it’s worth, is damned imaginative, but the screenplay is still a cute bundle of fantasizing, the kind of thing an artist like Scorsese shouldn’t have to waste his time on. Much of the film is comedy, not absurdist, camp, or surrealist comedy, just simple slapstick a la “Young Frankenstein,” the kind of comedy that generally doesn’t amount to much even when it’s nicely executed, as that in “Alice Doesn’t Live Here Anymore” doubtless is. In all likelihood, Scorsese should have plunged brazenly ahead making the film as he thought best, instructing the actors to think of other things as they delivered their lines (as Morrissey has sometimes done) and giving the screenplay absolutely no quarter. An approach more ‘dislocated’ than that would be difficult to imagine.

Dear Heart, we live in a cynical decadent age, an age of what is usually called form for form’s sake but it is really form because man happens to like form. If there is one rule for today’s cinema, it is that form must have expansiveness and freedom, and “content really doesn’t make that much difference,” since hopefully form serves both functions. Think of Ingmar Bergman, chugging away at his “content” in the traditional sense of the word and coming up with disaster after disaster. “The Touch,” his only successful movie in recent years, is also the one which least seems to wear its “content” on its chest as though that “content” were a medal of honor—or worse. The closest thing to an exception to all I have been saying which I can muster at the moment is the career of Satyajit Ray. But Ray’s films emerge from the mire of a national cinema which has developed along radically different lines from that of the rest of the world. His films seem a part of something other than an intrinsic exception. Just as the energy in our cinema comes from those filmmakers who are out to shatter prevailing conventions, so that in the Indian cinema comes from Ray and his fellow realists. The major difference, for the purposes of our present discussion, is that they are struggling against different systems.

By JOE McMILLAN
May 9, 1975

United States, the place Urbaniak thinks any contemporary European musician should set as his goal. “Atma” is the first American release of the group, though they have put out a dozen successful records in Europe. The album is a finely recorded trip into European jazz. All of the songs are very polished, providing smooth listening if losing some air of informality and improvisation. Side one features the violin of Urbaniak. His electric instrument often sounds like the violin of the Mahavishnu Orchestra, yet not so thin. Nor is his playing drowned out by the blare of any other over-amplified backups.

“Mazurka”
The first song on the record is “Mazurka,” and the title describes the atmosphere of a peasant dance or folk tune. Urbaniak’s violin sounds like a slightly modified Bartok, with a touch of Vassar Clements. This song draws from the European roots as American jazz uses the old spiritual and blues traditions. Other songs on this side use the electric violin more. The thin whine of these songs is the weakest part of the record. But even these are better than similar songs often done by Mahavishnu. Urbaniak has not apparently found Krishna yet, so his electric numbers are not so inane.

Second to Urbaniak
Helping to make these cuts as good as they are is the percussion of Czeslaw Bartkowski. He is second to Urbaniak in prominence on this side of the record. His drumming is fiercely fast yet unobtrusive, coming out only when necessary. The second side of the album presents Urbaniak’s wife in vocal accompaniment. Her “singing” is one of the truly innovative additions to modern jazz. Singing in the style Cathy Berberian made famous, Ms. Dudziak screams, caws, gurgles, and coos her way gloriously through this side of the disc.

Array of Sounds
In addition to her own vocal contortions, Dudziak’s voice is sometimes electrically modified to add the array of sounds. On parts of “Kama” her voice merely accompanies the melodic line of the violin. This song almost sounds like Sergio Mendes, except for the screeching violin. But on the last three cuts of the record, collectively titled “Atma,” she puts on a show of almost every sound imaginable. She also has a solo LP out.

Fusion experience
Urbaniak was scheduled to appear in Davidson last Sunday, but due to the illness of his wife they were not able to come. They played to sell-out crowds upon arriving in New York last year. The album shows that “Fusion” offers a new experience in modern jazz, drawing influences from both the European folk traditions and numerous strands of American music.