Four The Davidsonian May 15, 1975

Most well-known in field
Smith sparks college union association

By BRAD SWALWELL
Staff Writer

Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith has recently finished his term of office as President of the Association
of College Unions—International. According to an association publication, the purpose of the association “...is to provide an opportunity for unions
to join in studying and improving their organizations, services, programs, facilities, and personnel and to assist in the development of
new college unions.” The association (founded in 1914) views the union as a center for all members of the college
community: students, faculty, administration, alumni, and guests. To the association, “the union is part of the educational program of the
college” and tries to “serve as a unifying force in the life of the college.” Davidson’s union is just one
of over 800 member unions from such countries as the United States, Canada, Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Taiwan,
the Philippines, and Puerto Rico.

Smith has served the association in many capacities. He has served on numerous (too numerous to list) panels and committees.
He served as Host Director for the 1959 Conference of the association and gave the keynote address at the 1967
Conference in Philadelphia.

Butts Whiting Award

In 1972, the association awarded Smith its highest award—the Butts Whiting Award. Smith is one of only 7 recipients of
the award, and having received it before he was elected president of the association, is the only person to receive
the award without being president first. Smith was elected President of the association in 1973 and took over the chair
of the association in April, 1974. He will now continue to serve on the executive board of the association for
another one year as immediate past president.

Smith’s duties as president are stated only as “carrying on the business of the association.” This brief, simple statement of
duties, however, is very misleading. Smith has worked extremely hard this last year in his position as president. Smith (in
his capacity as president) has attended many conferences during this past year, held in such places as: Greensboro, Kearney, Nebraska;
Texas A & M; Oregon; Denver; Philadelphia; Terra Haute, Indiana; and San Luis Obispo, California. He has participated in the
dedication of college unions at East Carolina, Toledo, and California State University at Los Angeles.

Naturally, Smith’s duties have kept him away from the college a great deal of the time. Both Smith and the
college knew this when Smith accepted the post. “I never thought I would be president of the association, simply because
I didn’t have enough time, considering my duties here at Davidson,” commented Smith.

Top-notch assistant

“But the college has supported me beautifully in this venture. First of all, they brought in a top-notch assistant director
in Russ Kushigian. Russ is an experienced union programmer, so I could afford to be away from Davidson.

“Secondly, the college did not cut the secretarial help here at the union when the Placement department was moved to
Chambers. I still have two secretaries. The correspondence I do for the association could not have gotten done with just
one secretary.”

Smith served the association well as its president according to many in the association. This reporter conducted phone interviews with
several of Smith’s colleagues in the association. Howard Henry, director of the Union at the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, said “I have never met a man as dedicated as Shaw Smith is to the college union cause.
Shaw constantly reflected this dedication during his year as president.”

Paying lip service

Marilyn Lipsius, an association colleague of Smith’s and a professional entertainment manager in New York, commented: “If any person connected
with the business end of entertainment wants to talk to a solid, reliable, knowledgeable person in the college union field,
the first name they think of is C. Shaw Smith.”

“The right program creates a House of Serendipity. That is, people should discover things at the Union which they did
not mean to discover...” —C. Shaw SmithSmith.” Chester Berry, executive secretary of the association at the association offices in Stanford,
California, said: “Shaw’s unique qualities served the association very well during his year as president. He worked himself nearly to
exhaustion, visiting 14 of our 15 regions during the year.”

“Shaw is fiscally a very responsible person; this probably comes from his experiences in a small college where dollars are
hard to come by. He insists on getting the most for the union’s money: Shaw feels an ethical responsibility for
how the union’s money is spent.”

Berry also commented about the personal qualities which Shaw brought to the association.

Personableness

“Shaw is a very personal fellow. He really personalized the association. He saw to it that people were taken care
of, even if it wasn’t the most efficient thing for the association to do. Shaw cares about people.”

This personableness of Smith’s can be seen in his views and ideas on unions and their purpose. “There are three
main components of a union,” stated Shaw. “The first is atmosphere. The building and what’s inside the building must communicate
with people. It must say something; it must say, ‘This is a different kind of place. Come in and be
yourself,’” said Smith.

“The second component is activities, or what kind of speakers, shows, programs, and activities the union offers. We have the
greatest opportunity in the union to help improve student-faculty relationships.

House of Serendipity

“The right program creates a House of Serendipity. That is, people should discover things at the union which they did
not mean to discover, simply because there is so much in the union. For example, we come to the union
for a cup of coffee, but notice a painting which excites our minds and hearts. That’s serendipity.

“The third component is attitude. The union is for the student; it is to help the student. The basic hope
that we hold as first priority is to help students discover what is most important to themselves personally. The complex
and varied backgrounds and interests of our people are brought together to make a people union.”

Smith feels that the people are the most important part of the union. He remarked at the association’s 1974 Conference:
“We want to do such great things and we plan to do them, but somehow other things which are important
too, but maybe not as important as they seem, keep getting in the way. We want to help the student,
but we have to build the building first. Our priorities are hazy. We are going to do more for students
just as soon as... well, right after we’ve... later, yeah, later.”

Smith’s term as president of the association has not been without benefits for Davidson: it has undoubtedly helped put the
name of Davidson College in front of people. “Without a doubt he (Smith) is the most well-known person in the
field,” commented Assistant Director of the Union Russ Kushigian.

Lipsius also commented that “Shaw’s contributions to the entertainment industry via the college are immeasurable. The sophistication of Davidson College
in regards to entertainment is due in large measure to Shaw Smith.”

During his years with the association, Smith set up the Coffee House Circuit. This is an association of college unions
set up to introduce new talent on a shoe-string budget. The performers make a name through repeated performances at such
things as Davidson’s Hungry Hof. Performers like Don McLean, Brewer and Shipley, John Denver, and McKendree Spring were at one
time part of the Coffee House Circuit.

Smith also helped organize the National Entertainment Conference. This is a huge group of people: there are almost 800 member
unions, plus many entertainers. The group is set up to help college unions with programming by learning how to deal
with professional entertainers. The conference does block bookings of acts for many schools. “The purpose of the NEC is to
help us get good acts, to get them cheaply through block booking, and to help us make sure the acts
show up,” said Smith.

Haughty...
—Laura Moses

Personable...
—Laura Moses

Reflective...
—Laura Moses
