The Davidsonian, February 20, 1975 (Photo by Pete Goodman)

Caught In The Act
Hard-driving Tom Verlin is avenged as the referee calls a foul on a hapless Furman Paladin. In action last night, Wake Forest edged the Cats in a late rally, 78-69.

Jimmy the Freek
Indiana Tops National Poll

The Freek has returned from his trip to Council Bluffs, Iowa and requests his readers to return to the final paragraph of the February 6 issue of The Davidsonian. For those of you who don’t save back issues, it said East Carolina by 8 and Davidson by 1. Regardless of how bad I missed the JV game, this foreteller is on a super ego trip. (It always seems like I’m on a trip!) Incidentally, the morning following the ALL-STAR game, I found the following sign on my door— “11 points?” Rumor has leaked out that Bo Brickles was responsible for this. I don’t blame him; it’s only normal to relish the rare victories when you can!

It looks like the IMAC season has finally wound down, with the 4 teams in the winners bracket being the same top 4 in my most recent ITT. There will not be an ITT this week as I would have to dip down deep into B league for a few of the teams. For those who are still wondering about the mystery star, it is none other than Reggie “give me the ball” Harding. (No Reggie, I refuse to rate the Delphi Bureau, no matter how many times you beat ETC!)

Although I built the Gozinyas up all season, they were momentarily dethroned by IFT. However, these two teams should come down to a best of three battle ending this Sunday. Not to be prejudiced, I make all of the following IFT-Gozinya games even.

Since this is the last major basketball issue, I thought I might give you my post-season selections of: All ACC—Lucas, Brown, Thompson, Fleischer, and Rollins (It’s nice to have a (S)MIOWUA a yc cis os 76 (Q)INIGEStatess 07. 0555 51 (S)yAlabamat..25 532 ...5 49 (GIRENWICKYs. O26. 4814 CU) MEOUISVAIEN 5 855 wi 33 (8) Marquette.......... 2314 CO)PATIZONASt. 3). foie 12 LOUSOR eo ee, ans 11

Can you believe one guy had the audacity to put a tie down? As if he had such an in-depth view of both teams and couldn’t see any difference whatsoever! Our honorable mention list is also expanding where we can almost find 20 decent(?) teams in this country: Notre Dame-6, Clemson, Oregon-4, UNC-2, Arizona-2, Lasalle-1, Tennessee-1, Nevada at Las Vegas-1, and Pan American-1.

Due to the importance of our panel celebrities, they ask that their full names not be given. Instead, a highly complicated code will be used and can only be figured out by Math 23, 143, or 144 students: JBP-BAEBEPHJMMRDSCY (Hint: Go back to last week’s issue and match up the initials with the names.—This is also restricted to those with a GPA over 1.82)

There’s not much to say on Davidson basketball, except where are you Sam Gune when we need you? As you can probably tell, I am sick of basketball and also hard up for material. Therefore, I look forward to the next issue in the spring when I will release my famous pre-season baseball predictions. The inside dope has it that due to lack of competition, Bowie Kuhn will cancel the upcoming season and declare the Oakland A’s world champs until USC and Arizona St. are admitted to the American League West. That’s all the dope you can have until then.

Ruggers Seek Blood
By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

The jolly voices of the Davidson Rugby Club were heard echoing in the halls after last Sunday’s intersquad match. Last Sunday, the rain slowed the game down, but made it quite interesting. The previously clean jerseys became filthy with mud until nobody knew who was on what team. The white jerseyed team (blackened by the mud) defeated the black jerseyed team (further blackened by the mud) in a close match.the "sevens" match. The manifestation of a physical stress "overflow" was exhibited by running back David Swaine. Big Al William, often described by the team as being more "surefooted" than a mule, sparked the winning side with his two tries. Mike Stich scored the last try of the game for the winning side. The black jerseyed side scored once during the game, but his identity is unknown and remains obscured in the mud. Frank Fields, Mike Naslund, Carlton Cooke, and Jeff Clark displayed excellent inside hitting while Victor McMillan, Bruce Wallis, and Bob Sthermer represented the running speed of the team. The rugby clubs in England, which Davidson’s club is modeled after, represent "true art expressed through sport." Professional rugby in England, a touchy subject over there, is looked down upon and considered an exploitation of the game. This game is often viewed by participants as "the last of the true sports" because here in America, it has not been overtaken by business yet. Hobbes said that all men are basically competitive. Rugby can be used to properly channel and direct competitiveness into "true art" sport. The not only unorganized, but also disorganized close-knit group of individuals (ruggers) are the manifestation of real sport, for sport was intended for pleasure, not business. Petus Gerit supports this idea in his realistic book, "The Tower Dallas Forty." "Modern man no longer feels, he merely reacts; creativity has been replaced by conformity; life has lost its spontaneity; we are being manipulated by our machines; the individual is dead." The moral of this contradictory message is that rugby transcends the "business" corruption of sports and spiritually purges the individual whose physical, mental, and "moral" expression in the game approaches the "true art" form of sport. After the last rugby party in the fall, Cooke stated that the club was "childish and lewd." "If one isn’t able to comprehend the intrinsic, existential significance of rugby now, you never will," Confucius replied. Boycott Gallo wines.

Authorized Dealer Service and Sales
MOORESVILLE
Mitchem Opticians
Fast & Accurate Service
Bill Mitchem, Licensed Optician
Prescriptions Filled
Glasses Repaired
206 N. Main Ph. 663-3942
Mooresville

Happy Hour — Thurs. 7 - 9:30
HATTIE’S
Subs--Pizzas--Cold & Hot Sandwiches
Imported Beers--Cold Draught
HAPPY HOUR — 7 - 9 Tues. - Fri.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD
Counselor Opportunities

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop to his or her fullest potential should apply. Camp Thunderbird, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an A.C.A. accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white water canoeing, and tripping are extras in an excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C., 29710 (803-831-2121).

Applicants wanted - need good background in playing and teaching. Salary averaging $150-$200 per week. Call (703) 548-2064.