The Davidsonian April 10, 1975

Eve washes, ventilators, and fire extinguishers but no money

Chemistry facilities defy

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

The Martin Chemistry Building, and all the buildings on the Davidson College campus, are in violation of federal safety regulations, according to Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze Jr. Meetze explained that a group of laws regarding safety in business called the OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) laws have recently been modified to include college campuses. The chemistry facility does not meet the standards that these laws describe.

Chairman of the Chemistry Department Nicholas Burnett submitted a report describing the deficiencies of the chemistry building on Feb. 2, 1973. In response to this study and to the OSHA laws, the Davidson College Goals Committee has named the renovation and possible replacement of the chemistry facilities as a very high priority item in the further development of the college. Rather than prompting quick administrative action, the decision of the Goals Committee has been received calmly. "We've been over in that building since 1940 and it is in better shape now as far as eye washes, ventilators, and fire extinguishers than ever," said Meetze.

The improvements that have been made toward safety in the chemistry building include a fire door on the chemical storage room and new ground plugs on all electrical outlets. The fire door is one that the college has had for some time and was moved to the storage room on Burnett's request. The new grounding on outlets was paid for with the Chemistry Department's own funds. "We have done what we could to meet the law with the amount of funds we have. If we were inspected now by OSHA officials, we would do all right," said Meetze.

It is not customary for departments of the school to pay for improvements of their own facilities out of the money that the college allocates them, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Any permanent solution to the problems of the chemistry building will require additional funding.

Debate still brews on the status of illegally stored chemicals and other violations of OSHA laws in the Martin Chemistry Building as administrators stall solutions.

College expands counseling service, accepts expenses for entire program

By BILL BARNES
Copy Editor

Davidson College has approved a school-funded five-day-per-week counseling program beginning in September 1975, according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry. The program will be staffed by College Psychologist Amelia Dockery and Doctors W. Gatewood Workman and Meredith Hall. The present three-day-a-week program will be extended next school year to five days through an extension of the services of Hall through a second day each week, to be financed through college funds. Dockery will add a second day to her schedule in September. The SGA Senate will no longer allocate funds from its budget for psychological services.

Terry was enthusiastic about the decision to extend counseling. He indicated, however, that the counseling service should not be seen as a distinct department, but as an integrated part of the college, whose purpose is "to enable people to feel they can clarify their problems and to assure them they're O.K." "This is not to professionalize counseling for all students," he continued. "If we over-specialize we will create an atmosphere we do not have and do not want here."

Hall, SGA President John Munce, and Karl Goodhouse concurred with Dean Terry. Hall indicated that though he agreed with the idea of having five days of available counseling service per week, there was definitely a line to be drawn between a service and becoming a separate, and hence slightly cut-and-dried department. Hall asserted that there is definitely a need for counseling.

Davidsonian Staff

News Editor: MATTHEW COVINGTON
Sports Editor: CHUCK KENNON
Assistant Features Editors: STEVE JOHNSON, ANNE PELFREY, VAN WILLIAMSON
Photography Editor: LEON VENABLE
Assistant Production Manager: WILLIAM KENNON
Typists: SABRA FAIRES, PEGGY JETTON, CARRIE WILSON
Contributors: Scott Buell, Russell Carter, Bob Enright
Copy Editors: BILL BARNES, MARK GERGEN
Staff Artists: KEVIN BRODE, PAUL MITCHELL, PATTI SMISSON, BETH WIER
Associate Editors: DON BENSON, BILL ELLETT, ANNE FICKLEN, CHUCK HARMON, THOM NICOLL, GUS SUCCOP, ERIC WALKER, MARK WILENSKY
Business Manager: JEFF SICH
Advertising Manager: DAVID TRADER
Circulation Managers: RICKY BELL, JEFF NEIKIRK
Contributing Editors: BRUCE CORSER, JOE DUNCAN, GREG DUNN, LILLIAN GASCOIGNE, BOB HOWELL, JOE MCMILLAN, VINCERABIL GORDON WIDENHOUSE Cliff Gardner, Ernest Glenn, Pete Goodman, Dave Kitchen, John Lemmon, Bill Lloyd, Laura Moses, Mark Postove, Mike Russ, Carl Schwartz, Charlie Shepherd, Mike Sneed, Frank Stiefel, Carol Watkins, John Wood, and Mark Yow. Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

At Davidson, “People are lonely in this atmosphere,” he said. “They aren’t covered with wisdom but with intellect, and the closeness and competition at Davidson tends to make people seem more asinine than they are. It is this problem of loneliness that Hall wishes to alleviate, through increased contact with the student body via both individual and group discussion. He sees himself and the program as a sounding board where people’s emotional concerns can be taken care of. Dean Terry would ‘like to see Davidson able to work with special problems that develop on campus, for instance individual and group interrelations.’ He would like to ‘really talk about academic pressure and aim at helping the students handle it and anxiety so that one can get his psyche in gear.’

“I hope counseling will improve the quality of life at Davidson,” continued Terry. “The counselors are an important ingredient as they can relate to the students and still, through their professional status, relate to the faculty and administration.” Meredith Hall probably has the last word. “I don’t know what’s going to happen here,” he said. “You can’t blame Davidson College for everything because some of the problems here are part of Piedmont culture, American culture, and world culture. The trouble and frustration with loneliness here is that it looks like you can overcome it.”

OSHA laws department involves a great deal of money. At the present time, possible sources for this money are not interested in giving it to Davidson, according to Spencer. The administration has applied for a Seely G. Mudd Foundation grant and for money from the National Science Foundation (NSF). Both sources rejected the college. “The estimated costs for a renovation of the Martin Building is $450,000. Another route we might take is an allocation of $30,000 to begin an expansion of the big lecture room over there. The money would have to come from the outside,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan. “There is a commitment now to renovate or replace that building in a given period of time,” continued Bevan. “We have gone twice to NSF. They are not giving out any money to build buildings anymore. Five or six years ago, things like dorms, unions, etc., you could get money that was still available. Now the spigots have been turned off,” he said.

The administration now awaits the decision by the Goals Committee concerning the ordering of Davidson College priority needs. The Goals Committee will report its recommendations to the Trustees in May. “If Chemistry is given top priority status by the Goals Committee, it will be the first time that we have been officially recognized as a top priority need,” said Chemistry Professor Burnett. “I have no prediction one way or the other as to what the Goals Committee will decide on the Chemistry building,” Burnett added. Burnett, who is a member of the Goals Committee, stated that the committee has seen very little data in its work. “We can’t order things until some more data is available. We do not even know what the enrollment will be in the next couple of years,” said Burnett. “How can we decide whether we need more housing, or a larger Chemistry facility without knowledge of this fact?”

History Lesson
A harsh system of discipline prevailed during Davidson College’s first twenty years. This helped produce a student riot in 1855, followed by a reduction in the student body that year from 75 to 31.

The principal function of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College was the conduct of examinations until 1874.

Almost half of the Davidson College endowment was lost during the Civil War through the collapse of state and Confederate securities in which most of it was invested, and by the enforced repudiation of those which remained because of the provisions of the 14th amendment.