the davidsonian October 3, 1975

Red Ernie: Dr. E. F. Patterson traveled to Red China on a trip sponsored by the Guardian, a New York
Leftist newspaper. In a speech Tuesday, Patterson said about his knowledge of China, “I’m not an expert; I was there
too long.”

Union explores multifaceted entertainment programming
By KATHY MCLENDON
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Union, newly housed in an attractive and multi-purposed facility, promises to “come into its own as an
integral part of the campus” in the 1975-76 year, according to Union Board President Richard Wassen. Wassen and College Union
Director C. Shaw Smith foresee an extensive program of both formal and informal activities sponsored by the Union.

Smith explained that the normal or planned programs include both social and cultural offerings, such as the film series, coffeehouses,
lectures, concerts, and drama presentations. The new Union lends itself especially to informal programs which were severely limited in the
Old Carnegie building. Smith plans meetings for such diverse special-interest groups as pipe-smokers, tea drinkers, and diamond lovers. He emphasized,
“We're trying to get people who have special interests to share them.”

The most informal aspect of the Union is student-initiated activity. Smith spoke of only a few of the many opportunities
in the Union, including the game room, the snack bar, places to dance and to read, and in the future,
facilities for listening to records.

PIRG investigates local textile mills
By LYMAN COLLINS
Staff Writer

“We are aware that brown lung constitutes a major health hazard and that’s why Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) is
committed to organizing textile workers to fight the spread of this disease,” observed Davidson PIRG spokesman, Andy Lamas.

Brown lung, known as byssinosis in medical circles, is a disease contracted by textile workers in cotton mills. Caused by
frequent inhalation of cotton dust fibers, it results in chronic lung obstruction. Davidson PIRG began working on brown lung this
past spring term and discovered little progress had been made in that area. It was then decided to adopt brown
lung as the major project for the 1975-76 school year.

Six letters from area textile workers suffering from the disease have been received so far. This number compares favorably with
last term when only one letter was received; however, twenty-five letters are needed before the state Health Department will send
a team of doctors to help draw the line on the disease. Persons interested in working with PIRG on brown
lung should contact Andy Lamas or attend the PIRG meetings every Monday in the Union at 9:00 P.M.

PIRG has not yet decided what its next major project will be; however, Monday they are going to choose between
various sex discrimination projects, a voter registration drive, a consumer watch, investigation of the Buckley amendment at Davidson, or a
watchdog survey of ARA Slater Food Service. Target areas include textile mills in the Kannapolis-Concord vicinity. “We plan to distribute
about 25,000 pieces of literature by the end of the term,” commented Lamas. Another short-range aim is to contact doctors
in the area in order to solicit their support in fighting the disease. PIRG also hopes to increase public knowledge
of brown lung, and thereby increase public pressure for action on the mills.

“Our first concern,” continued Lamas, “is to decrease the dust levels inside the mills. Then we hope to encourage the
mills to identify those workers who have the disease and to pay them workmen’s compensation.” Long-range plans include an effort
to organize an area Brown Lung Association. The Association could be influential in helping to get the problem diagnosed by
area doctors.

Students are encouraged to use the Union as a meeting place and to bring their own ideas, either as “fun
or as an extension of the class,” according to Smith. One example of the many varied functions of the Union
is the Gallery Committee, headed by Jayne Reich. The lobby area of the Union will serve as a gallery. Reich
plans to distribute the art rental collection (artwork availableFor students to rent), to invite traveling art shows, and to have
shows of local artists. Davidson student artists may arrange a show through this committee. The Artists’ Series is a significant
part of the Union’s cultural program for the year. The 1975-76 season presents the Royal Shakespeare Company (October 14), the
Fiesta Folklorico (January 21), the Ars Antiqua de Paris (March 19), and the Branko Krsmanovich Chorus (March 29). Wassen was
enthusiastic about this year’s selection: “I’m excited because of the fantastic range—the countries and the art forms. Each will be
unique. They are all excellent.”

The three big weekends of the school year are the focus of the Union social calendar. Homecoming, October 17-19, features
John Hartford and the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band. Other plans are indefinite. Wassen indicated that Homecoming will follow the typical
format because the Union staff is still adjusting to the new building.

Williams (Continued from page 1)

Years of the 1960s. It’s due to them we're operating at maximum capacity now,” he continued. “But we are in
a situation which may produce a certain financial stress created by a lack of sufficient funds to perform at the
level we have set ourselves as an objective. Our worry is not existence, as it would be in a crisis.
We want to be able to maintain our status as a highly sought-after liberal arts college. The definition of a
college’s financial condition does not hinge solely on its operating in the black.”

Davidson students will be involved in these projects, according to Williams, who spoke to SGA President John Munce about the
possibility of placing students on developmental committees. These would deal with National and North Carolina foundations and corporations, leadership gifts,
alumni associations, and estate planning.

In addition to long-range plans, Williams has had to attend to short-term worries.

Menchel blasts Smith, Wassen
By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Chairman of the Social Council Marc Menchel criticized Union director C. Shaw Smith in an address before the SGA Senate
Tuesday. Menchel had resigned his Union position on September 17, 1975, because of other time-consuming obligations, but primarily because of
personal conflicts in the Union.

“Shaw seldom had a word of praise for what I and assistant director Russ Kushigan did... Shaw from the time
I was elected until the end of Spring term did no work for the Union directly. He spent his time
working mostly for the Association of College Unions International (ACU-I)... (Mr. Smith served last year as president of ACU-I). All
Shaw did for me as I saw it was criticize me with no other suggestions,” said Menchel. “I regard him
as an extremely intelligent person with many innovative ideas. Shaw simply seemed to me to lack sensitivity and motivation to
assist me in what I was trying to do at the Union.”

Menchel blasted Union President Richard Wassen for being ineffective and inactive. “I keep up with people, make assignments, anything to
help get the job done.” Wassen also explained that Mr. Smith had commitments to the ACU-I which had to be
met.

“This is one of the reasons Russ was hired, to help Shaw out,” said Wassen. Bob Mayer, previous chairman of
the coffeehouse, was recommended by Menchel to be his replacement. “Bob is doing a fine job, an excellent job,” Wassen
commented.

Menchel praised the work of two individuals. “Russ Kushigan and Bill Roland, the technical director, did all the work as
far as administration in the Union. Both people worked selflessly for the Union. They put in at least 60 hours
a week, sometimes more.”

“Certainly the difficulty I had in working with Richard and Shaw was due in some measure to my own shortcomings.
I cannot help but feel that I have let those people who elected me down, however, I hope they appreciate
my position,” said Menchel.

Menchel was elected chairman of the Social Council in December 1974. The Social Council is responsible for many concerts, coffee
houses, dances, and entertainment for big weekends.
