September 26, 1975

The Davidsonian

Monty Python’s Flying Circus

By JOHN KIRK
Staff Writer

Monty Python’s Flying Circus was one aspect of English culture which I felt quite confident I would not miss when I left those hallowed shores a fortnight or so ago. It now seems as though I am not going to be allowed to forget it—so to save having to repeat myself in the months to come, I hereby present my U.S. cousins with all the information they need to know about M.P.F.C. And for those of you who enjoy reading between the lines, there is the added bonus of my own value judgment of the show.

Monty Python’s Flying Circus was first screened on British T.V. four (or perhaps five) years ago. This first television series was such a resounding success that before too long, in keeping with the famous Ukrainian proverb “If it moves, sell it,” there appeared a film (not, incidentally, “Monty Python and the Holy Grail,” more of which later), two books, and something like four record albums. There were also some more T.V. shows, most of which were repeated. In the best tradition of sound business sense, the maximum possible mileage was extracted from a minimal amount of product.

As the sociologists among you might well expect, an overdose of such proportions was bound to have unfortunate repercussions, the most lamentable of which was the creation of a type who may perhaps best be identified as a “Python Freak” (hereafter referred to as a P.F.). The P.F. (for whom I suppose we should all be sorry) had absorbed so much Monty Python that he became unable to hold a conversation without drawing very heavily on its expressions. There is nothing unusual about this—it has always been common for the catchphrases of comedians to pass into popular usage, but what was unusual here was the extreme to which this tendency was taken. For the most important duty of the card-carrying P.F. was to repeat verbatim entire sketches. On his own, the P.F. was relatively harmless, but when he teamed up with some fellow P.F.’s (for this was an essentially gregarious activity), he began to scale new heights of obnoxiousness. (To give you some further indication of the type of person who became a P.F., research has shown that Cheech and Chong sketches often formed part of his repertoire.)

Monty Python was not such a new form of humor as many of its devotees perhaps thought it to be (although it admittedly made a welcome change from the insipid situation comedies which occupy most of the air-time allotted to “light entertainment”), being derived for the most part from the tradition of the University Revue (most of the Monty Python crew having had a University education)—it also relied fairly heavily on the characteristically ‘absurd’ comedies of the playwright N. F. Simpson and on the humor of the legendary Goons (Peter Sellers, Spike Milligan, and Harry Secombe), who genuinely were a new development in British comedy. Within this framework, there was a rather juvenile element of gratuitous vulgarity which came to the fore whenever the scriptwriters were low on ideas. Then there was also a tendency for the shows to become increasingly esoteric (one instance of...This which immediately springs to mind was a skit on T.V. quiz programs where the contestants had to summarize Proust—so much so that one was often left with the impression that the meaning of much of the humor was restricted to the members of the crew themselves. At its worst, Monty Python was a rather titillatory show in that it always carefully skirted the edges of bad taste, wanting to take things a little farther but not ever daring to. It is significant that in America, Monty Python is catching on, as it were, in reverse order, in that interest stems mainly from the team’s most recent project, “Monty Python and the Holy Grail.” As far as I was concerned, this was a very disappointing film, being an alternation of very good and very mediocre sequences. The failings of this film seem to be symptomatic of the way in which each successive T.V. series has shown a deterioration from its predecessor—quite simply there were not enough ideas to fill out a full-length film. Then there was the problem of the ending—and while I am fully aware of the fact that it is true of the very nature of the grail search that it is never successful, this serves as no excuse for the fact that the way in which the film was brought to a close was very much a case of taking the easy way out—the lack of a satisfying conclusion meaning that it tended to peter out. All this must sound very patronizing—as indeed it is—the English expatriate assuming that the series is somehow his own property and then trying to dictate what he feels should be your reaction to it. I also think it should be pointed out that when I went to see the film I was fairly determined to remain unimpressed, but I hope my readers will understand the circumstances which have led to my initial enthusiasm for Monty Python being blunted. What is refreshing to me, though, is the American approach to the Monty Python phenomenon—very simply, people are seeing something which amuses them and they are laughing at it (I hope readers will take note of this penetrating insight into the very essence of humor). This comes as a marked contrast to English reaction to the latest T.V. series. I watched these programs in a University T.V. lounge with about fifty other people (and as the P.F.’s began to stamp their feet out of time with the signature tune of the first show I knew that it was going to be a harrowing experience)—and while my obstinate refusal to be amused may seem rather narrow-minded, the opposite reaction is profoundly irritating—i.e. where two or three (or fifty) people are gathered together and are determined to laugh at something, then you can be certain that they will make themselves laugh. This latter reaction can only be described as small-minded.

KUBRICK FILM FESTIVAL
STARTS FRIDAY SEPT. 26
Dr. Strangelove
2001: A Space Odyssey
$1.00 off regular admission with this coupon.