It's a Lions Club den now

Currie, Scott plan to reopen Rusk

By LYMAN COLLINS
Staff Writer

Business Manager Robert Currie and ARA Slater Director Ron Scott are working on plans for reopening Rusk House next year.
Last year, Rusk served along with Richards and Bailey Houses as cafeterias for students using Slater Food Service. Rusk was
a buffeteria allowing students to eat as much as they wanted for a fixed price. Scott made the decision to
close Rusk last spring.

Now Rusk is used as what President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. termed as “a specialty house.” He pointed out
that Rusk was used for the football training table last term, by visiting speakers on campus, and on Parents’ Weekend
for the Parents’ Council Breakfast. The house is also the meeting place for the Davidson Lion’s Club, a civic organization.
“Last year the Club had been meeting out at the lake but approached us about meeting in Rusk, and of
course the college was more than glad to throw a little business Slater’s way,” commented Currie. “By catering to other
groups Slater is able to keep down the cost of meal tickets to the students,” concluded Currie.

Next year Slater is hoping to instigate a “super-maxi plan” that would consist of twenty meals per week. This plan
could coincide with a year-round training table for athletes that is now being discussed with Athletic Director Tom Cartmill. “We
might have a problem with the super-maxi during football season since the team practically fills up the entire room, but
we might be able to squeeze in about fifty more people,” said Scott. The possibility of turning Rusk into another
eating club to alleviate crowded conditions on Patterson is a remote possibility. “We simply need the space ourselves now. Rusk
is cited three to four times a week and we’re in there almost every day for items stored there,” commented
Scott.

At one time the possibility of Slater setting up an eating club in Rusk was discussed. “It would take about
seventy to eighty people to start a club, and there simply doesn’t seem to be enough interest,” concluded Scott. Scott
also said that the two off-campus fraternities, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta, had approached him about Slater catering
to them in Rusk, but he indicated that was unlikely. “With unlimited seconds, many ‘heavy eaters’ frequented the house, and
it simply wasn’t profitable to continue operating it at such a bargain price,” said Scott.

Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036
the davidsonian
Vol. LXV, No. ELEVEN
December 19, 1975

Professors discuss tenure; Express differing opinions

By BILL BARNES
Senior News Editor

The conferral of academic tenure upon a professor “requires evidence of demonstrated professional competence, service to the academic community, and
commitment to the welfare of the College,” according to the Davidson College Constitution. Its purpose, said Dean of the Honors
Center Earl R. MacCormac, “is to provide a position from which a professor may, with ‘impunity’, voice controversial and/or unpopular
views within his or her field of competence.”

Tenure also, according to its critics, tends to “lock-in” a college faculty, restricting the circulation of professors within the college
and university system and the entrance of “new blood” into a school’s faculty. In some cases, its conferral also precedes
a decline in the academic standards of professors who, once their tenure is established, begin to take less and less
care in their position.

“To understand anyone’s position on tenure requires a knowledge of the basic controversy,” said Professor of Spanish Lois A. Kemp.
“The problem is partly one of mobility, partly one of a loss of distinctiveness in a college whose faculty is
to an extent frozen in place by tenure.

“Look at it this way,” she continued. “The whole teaching profession has undergone some basic changes. Up until about ten
years ago there was a lot of faculty mobility; faculty turnover might be ten or 15 percent per year. People
would change jobs with better offers being offered and not that many stayed any one place long enough to get
tenure.

“What’s happening now with the economic difficulties and the fact that professors are being paid better, and as the size
of the job market has shrunk people no longer move. We are moving towardsan immobile faculty. People are getting tenure
at a younger age and they’re going to be at whatever school gave it to them for 30 years and
more.” Kemp received tenure from Davidson College last spring but does not favor it as an unconditional policy. The “locking-in”
of professors into tenured posts can cause a college to lose any distinctiveness it derives from the continued influx of
new talent. “You need new blood in a college,” said Kemp, “and with a locked-in faculty you aren’t going to
get it. It should not be an unconditional policy and the faculty’s credentials should be subject to review as much
after tenure is given as before.”

Regarding the allegation that the conferral of tenure results in a decline in professorial excellence, Kemp said: “If a student
had been here two years and proven himself adequate and were guaranteed a passing grade for the remainder of his
stay at Davidson, what would happen? In some cases, there would be a definite loss of incentive, but in many
others, the students would continue to do the same work they had been doing before and better. The same applies
to professors.”

Dean of the Honors Center Earl MacCormac holds that tenure is a valid and viable system. “It provides an atmosphere
of freedom which would not otherwise exist,” he said, “in which professors are freed from having to worry about their
jobs if they voice unpopular views.” MacCormac suggests that tenure be given, not on the present seven-year plan, but on
the basis of a ten-year stay at the College, with evaluations after each of two five-year periods and re-evaluation once
tenure is conferred. As of now, the College Constitution says that tenure cannot be repealed once given unless in cases
of “mental incapacity, professional incompetence, or extreme moral turpitude.”

Both he and Kemp suggest that post-conferral evaluations be made by teams of outside observers who should be made familiar
with the college and its purposes. This practice, though somewhat costly, has been instituted with success at Allegheny College in
Pennsylvania. The bringing in of outside and impartial observers would aid in the clarification of the terms “professional competence” and
“extreme moral turpitude,” as well as structure the process of conferral of tenure so that it can be known when
and how a professor is being evaluated. Neither Kemp nor MacCormac know exactly how they were evaluated. “I was given
tenure after ten years and have a letter to prove it,” said MacCormac.

MacCormac, (See MACCORMAC, page 2)

College continues laundry business with mandatory fee
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Staff Writer

“Two years ago, we were interested in terminating operation of the College-owned laundry. This proposal has now been rejected,” said
Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. One important condition stands in the way. “Before the College laundry was closed,
we wanted insurance that some similar service would be available to Davidson students. No commercial laundry was then or since
has been willing to locate in the Davidson area. Because no one else will operate a laundry, the College must,”
said Spencer.

All Davidson students must pay a mandatory fee to the laundry. Some have protested, insisting that they can do their
own for less money. Those who are dissatisfied want to see the laundry fee made voluntary. Spencer points out that
“the flat fee is necessary, for the laundry must have a guaranteed operating income or it will become a financial
burden on the College. The choice is not between a voluntary or a non-voluntary laundry, rather the choice is between
our present set-up or no laundry at all,” said Spencer.

Mrs. Francis Beaver, 31-year employee and now director of the Davidson laundry, participated in a feasibility study of the operation
two years ago. “If the College terminated laundry service and no commercial laundry was available to replace it, coin-operated washers
and driers would be needed to meet the students’ needs,” said Beaver. Beaver sees almost endless disadvantages in making 1250
students dependent upon coin-operated machines, and administration officials agree with her. “Even now our laundry has (See CURRIE, page 4)

Ceasing Publication
With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication in 1975. Publication will resume January 15, 1976.
