the davidsonian

December 5, 1975

Movin’ on: Davidson’s rugby squad advanced to the quarter-finals in a recent tournament

By VIC McMILLAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rugby Football Club reached the quarter-finals of consolation play in the Washington Sevens Rugby Tournament over the Thanksgiving
break.

One of the largest tournaments in the country, the Washington Sevens features 52 teams with seven players on each side
rather than 15 of orthodox rugby.

Two Maryland teams proved to be the Wildcats’ demise as Davidson compiled a 2-2 tournament record. Facing the University of
Maryland in its first contest, Davidson was downed 22-0 as most of the Wildcats played sevens rugby for the first
time.

But Davidson came back in the consolation bracket to defeat Madison College of Virginia 17-6. Three big plays insured victory
for the Wildcats in that contest.

John Lovett pushed through the Madison defenses for the first score. Then David Swaim crushed a Madison rally with another
try.

The victory was iced with a 54-yard jaunt by Mark Connors and a field goal by Swaim.

Camp Lejeune’s Marines were the next Davidson victims. Following excellent dribbling by Davidson alumnus Dave Brudzinski, Reverend Hamilton scooped up
the ball and raced 32 yards for a score.

But Davidson’s tenuous lead was repeatedly threatened by the Marine’s offense. It took a tenacious Davidson defense led by Mark
Armstrong and Carlton Cooke to repel a Marine advance which nearly reached the Davidson goal.

The game ended in a 6-0 Davidson victory.

Davidson was finally eliminated by Mob, a team of University of Maryland alumni. Swaim slashed through for a try, but
it was not enough as the Wildcats were beaten 19-6.

Wiley wins annual ROTC turkey shoot

By GIL CUTHBERTSON
Staff Writer

Senior Dave Wiley, an amateur sharpshooter, walked away with first place in the annual ROTC Turkey Shoot recently. Wiley hit
for 22 out of 25 points to win the coveted first place. The prize for his efforts is 2 steak
dinners in Concord.

“I guess I was lucky,” Wiley said, “Because I just went in and shot. There was no scope to sight
with and no practice shots were allowed.

“This is the first time I’ve shot a gun since last year. Heck, I just aimed and pulled the trigger.”

Wiley added, “I used to hunt a lot back home and I guess that helped, but you know, this is
the first turkey shoot I’ve been in where the prize wasn’t a turkey.”

This year’s shoot was set up a little different than in previous years by the Scabbard and Blade. Shooters got
5 shots at 5 different targets with 5 points for each. A perfect score would then be 25. Rifles used
were .22’s. The shoot was held on the 50-foot ROTC range.

Dick Boehner and Rick Miller tied for second with scores of 21. Carolyn Simpson outshot the rest of the coeds
to take the women’s first. For the faculty, it was Dr. Avinger and Zack Long capturing the honors.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL

6 oz RIB EYE STEAK
FRENCH FRIES
TOSSED SALAD
& ROLL

— $2.25
FRIDAY DEC. 5 - THURSDAY DEC. 11

New Navy Scholarship

Provides full scholarship for Jr. and Sr. years ... tuition, books, educational fees. Plus ... $100 a month living expenses.

To qualify, you must have completed a minimum of one semester each of college physics and integral calculus or two
semesters of integral calculus with a C average or better.

Depending on your interest, you can select aviation, line, or Supply and look forward to four years or a career
in one of these exciting fields.

For more information, write or call collect:

LT. John Gordon
Pinewood Bldg.
P.O. Box 18568
Raleigh, NC 27609

(919) 872-2547

Phone

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina

663-3030
