Twelve The Davidsonian May 2, 1975

Ligo restores Milton Cowan log cabin

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
News Editor

A large, rough-hewn oak cabin sits on its new cinderblock foundation three miles from the college down Grey Road. It
is a patriarch among houses in the area, being one of the finest and best-preserved examples of handmade log cabins
in the state. The cabin is called The Milton Cowan house by the people around Beaver Creek Dam, where the
cabin was built and remained until 1974. But Milton Cowan was the house’s second owner. The builder and first owner
of the house was William Cowan, a gunsmith who acquired the 183 acres of land on which the house originally
stood in 1800.

Cowan's wife

The house was probably built in 1803 or 1804 for Cowan’s wife. The couple were its first inhabitants and lived
there until Cowan’s death in 1845. The house now belongs to Professor of Art Larry L. Ligo, who is restoring
it, expecting to live there when the work is completed. Ligo’s interest in restoring a cabin of this type began
in 1973 when Ligo and Tom Hatley (then a senior) were looking at cabins in the area. They thought that
the college might like to sponsor a program to restore a log cabin. The college was not able to do
this, although several people in the area offered to give the college such a cabin. Ligo decided to buy a
cabin himself and attempt to restore it as much as he could with only the help of Davidson students. Students
who helped were those who volunteered or those involved in a special extended studies program, making the house their project.

Dairy farm

Ligo found his cabin on a dairy farm in Mt. Ulla, North Carolina, belonging to Mr. T.S. and J.L. Hoffner.
The Hoffners were using the cabin as a storage shed. The two-story house has three rooms downstairs and one large
room above. The cabin is constructed from red oak logs that are a foot thick. These logs, the originals with
the structure, are still free from decay, owing to the fact that the cabin was set on pilings about 10
inches off the ground, away from termites and moisture.

“The cabin, when we found it, was covered with paneling. The inside was covered with sheetrock, and the cabin had
a false ceiling about a foot lower than the real ceiling,” said junior Dan Thorpe, a student who helped with
the restoration and wrote a history of the cabin.

--Scott Buell

“We had to do our work in layers, stripping off the paneling and sheetrock. The only way we could estimate
the age of the structure was to look at the nails and saw-tooth marks in the wood. We found three
distinct layers. One was from the 1940s, the second from 1840 when we think improvements were made on the original
cabin, and the third dating back to 1804 when the cabin was actually built,” said Thorpe.

After the job of cleaning the cabin was finished, the group of students with Ligo could decide what was missing
from the house. It appeared to be missing a porch that it once had and, according to Thorpe, there were
some unidentified holes over the windows in the house. “Some historians of architecture in Winston-Salem were able to identify the
holes as remnants of a type of siding called pent eves,” said Thorpe. “These were the last example of this
form.”of architecture found in North Carolina. They disappeared about 1770, mysteriously reappearing on this cabin in 1803. No one knows
why. "Pent eves or pent roofs are small shed roofs attached to the upper walls of a log building to
keep rain from striking the otherwise unprotected walls and washing away the daubing," continued Thorpe. "They were generally about two
feet long, angled away from the wall approximately 45 degrees and were found on walls that did not have a
full porch to protect them," said Thorpe. The pent roofs on the Cowan house extended along the entire east wall,
which was the front of the house. They began about on a level with the second floor and sloped down
from there. "The pent roofs remained on the house until a tenant took them down in 1935. We talked to
that man and he confirmed that the authorities in Winston Salem were correct in thinking that the holes in the
wall meant pent roofs. The man said that he had to take the roofs off because they were insect-ridden," Thorpe
added.

Removed roof

The actual process of disassembling the cabin so that it could be moved was an exercise in patience and care.
The roof was removed including the rafters—all in one piece, and the chimney was taken down. This was the most
difficult portion of the work of moving the house. "When we took the chimney down, we started at the top
and took it down brick by brick, first with paint because that was more permanent and easier to see and
then with magic marker on tape which we stuck to each brick. We took pictures at each course of stacked
brick. When we got it all down, we put it in the living room. Then a professional had to move
it to Davidson."

Reconstruction

Once in Davidson, the reconstruction began. A professional mason was hired to rebuild the chimney according to specifications and the
photographs from the Beaver Creek Dam site. "We had to rebuild the roof in a different style, with more insulation.
Ligo intends to live in the house, but he wants to have the modern conveniences. We got the rafters for
the roof especially cut so that they would bear the same sort of saw marks as the originals," said Thorpe.
"We had quite a job deciding how to rebuild in a way that would hide the modern conveniences. We cheated
in some places, the daubing between the logs, for instance, is colored cement," Thorpe smiled. "We found one of the
original windows upstairs in the house and were able to get a mill to copy the frame for us. Winston
Salem blew us some window glass authentic to 1840," said Thorpe.

The cabin now sits on its "permanent site," where Ligo plans to fully reconstruct it and move in when it
is finished.

Blueprints

Blueprints have been drawn up for the additions that Ligo wishes to make, including an entirely new structure to surround
the cabin on three sides. "I think Ligo wants to combine the old and the new in his home. This
will be where the talent and imagination of the project will come into play," said senior John M. Bevan Jr.
who currently lives in the house. Bevan is living in rather spartan conditions acting as a caretaker for the house.
He has a kitchen with water but must use an outhouse. There is no central heating so Bevan must cut
and split his own logs to burn in the large fireplace.
