the davidsonian October 17, 1975

Grading professors
Confrontations weed out teachers
By DAVID RICHARDSON

There are many shadows flirting in the background of the Davidson College scene. One of the most important, perplexing, and
ill-defined is the Davidson professor. Few students comprehend the individual composition and nature of each professor confronted at the opposite
end of the classroom; fewer still are willing to try. Too many faculty members are remembered solely for the injuries
incurred against the ingenuous in the great war of the GPA. Too many more are revered as awesome figureheads, despite
their excessive pedantics, didactic to the end.

Why don’t we know our professors: our teachers, our pedants, our pedagogues? Within the faculty lies our only real chance
to know the Davidson system, for better or worse. These professors illustrate the assets and liabilities of Davidson in as
many as five shows a week, one hour a day. Each teacher directly or indirectly offers a personal interpretation of
this school in his method and delivery: his very appearance in the classroom. But appearances are not enough. We must
finally come to know that which the professor has to offer on a personal, human basis. Outside the classroom ideas
flow, criticism flies, the teacher communicates rather than informs.

Screen gems: Video-beam gleam
The College Union Board is currently considering the purchase of a Video-beam projector and screen, a glorified wide-screen television set
costing approximately $4300. The projector, designated by the Class of '75 as the Senior Class gift, would cost the College
Union about $2600 above the monies donated by last year’s seniors. This weekend, the television system was on display in
the union lounge, and response by World Series fans watching on the big screen was generally enthusiastic. However, any new
gimmick has its initial appeal.

Although the Video-beam system would be a nice addition to the new union facility, we cannot justify the cost for
such a contraption. The availability of such an apparatus would be limited as it necessitates operation by the College Union
Tech Crew. And unless the major networks improve their quality of programming rapidly, the Union would be a long time
getting $4300 worth out of television. More important, the College Union exists to offer the kind of programming, co-curricular and
social, which members of this community cannot avail themselves of elsewhere. We strongly suggest that the union leave television programming
to the houses on Patterson Court and the dormitory lounges, saving its all-too-precious budget to offer more of the unique
entertainment opportunities (such as the Royal Shakespeare Company performance) which the Union alone can offer the campus. Gimmicks such as
large television screens are a welcome addition only when they are donated—completely donated; to spend programming money for television is
folly.

the davidsonian
“The meaning of the message is the message that it produces in the image.” —Kenneth Boulding

Editor
Business Manager
Managing Editors
Executive Editor
Senior News Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor
Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C., 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00

Here we may see just what there is to learn, to emulate within the Davidson context. Inside Chambers we see
too often what not to learn, or at least what to avoid. A prime example of the need for individual
student-faculty communication is Davidson’s freshman advisor program. Seldom more than a travesty of human relations—something akin to the situation existing
between you and your most distant uncle—this program more often than not serves to launch the unwary student into a
nightmare of academic terrors. The busy advisor lacks the time and energy to help define a student’s inchoate college pursuits.
But, as if to make up for it, he is obliged to sponsor bi-yearly “casual” dinner occasions, repairing suffering relations
with Mom’s best casserole and peach ice cream. Truly, southern hospitality at its worst extreme.After the first year of trauma,
the dazed student may be lucky enough to be rescued by some member of the faculty through the medium of
shared interest—academic or otherwise. These instances are far too rare, however, to offer general relief. A distraught student may well
find himself at the end of his rope by graduation—a social misfit, warped from butting his head too often against
the administrative machine, narrow-minded from identifying his professors with the dusty old blackboards of Chambers. Ideally, the Davidson student would
seek not only to associate himself personally with a worthwhile spectrum of teachers, but to determine which members of the
faculty—especially within the range of his major—are worthy of a critical confrontation. This means, of course, that not all the
professors here are omniscient, diligent souls committed to the pursuit of truth and higher learning. In short, some may seem
idiots, or merely, to choose a gentler phrase, bad teachers. Again, don’t be satisfied with appearances. Restrain yourself from calling
them idiots in the asylum of your dormitory room; instead, prove them idiots in class, seminar, tutorial, or over cold
beer—anywhere, as long as you confront them face to face. Although drastic, it is a sure-fire way to tap the
best in previously reticent professors, to discover something beneficial in the most unlikely of sources, and naturally enough, to determine
who the real idiots are, if any. Davidson College owns a motley collection of Angry Young Men and Indifferent Old
Men on its faculty staff. Entrusted to this rather unstable means are four years of your thinking lives. Make them
realize it. As they grade you, grade them. Utilize their minds, ideas. Demand from them as much as you can
possibly handle. And most important of all, take advantage of a valuable personal relationship outside four class walls with the
teaching men and women who can, and are willing to offer you something of their lives.

Bogdown Student tells fable of animal school
By ANNE FICKLEN
Staff Writer

As it’s getting on towards the midterm bogdowns, I think it’s about time for an ever-popular animal fable, where animals
do all sorts of symbolic things and the reader gets to create his own interpretation. After discarding “Watership Down” and
“Bambi Goes Hawaiian in Beach Blanket Bingo,” I’ve settled on “The Fable of the Animal School,” written by Charles Nauss.
It is presented in the original, because the last time I tried to paraphrase a half-hour television show, my monologue
ran for three hours and my listeners had to resort to No-Doz.

“The Fable of the Animal School”

Once upon a time, the animals decided they must do something heroic to meet the problems of a “new world,”
so they organized a school. They adapted an activity curriculum consisting of running, climbing, swimming, and flying, and to make
it easier to administer, all the animals took all the same subjects.

The duck was excellent in swimming, better in fact than his instructor. He made passing grades in flying, but he
was very poor in running. Since he was slow in running, he had to stay after school and drop swimming
to practice running. This was kept up until his web feet were badly worn and he was only average in
swimming. But average was acceptable in school, so nobody worried about that except the duck.

The rabbit started at the top of his class in running, but had a nervous breakdown because of so much
makeup work in swimming.

The squirrel was excellent in climbing until he developed frustration in the flying class, where his teacher made him start
from the ground up instead of from the treetop down. He also developed charley horses from overexertion and then got
a “C” in climbing and a “D” in running.

The eagle was a problem child and was disciplined severely. In the climbing class he beat all the others to
the top of the tree, but insisted on using his own way to get there.

At the end of the year, the queer abnormal eel that could swim exceedingly well, and also run, climb, and
fly a little, had the highest average and was valedictorian.

As my fifty minutes are up, you can go off now to register for winter term, and I'll leave you
with Mr. Nauss’ last words: “Does this fable have a moral?”
