September 19, 1975

Beer is here: Davidson goes underground with Taverne night spot

By ROBBY HUTCHINSON
Staff Writer

It ain't Davidson. The Taverne (the Club, the Lounge—whatever you want to call it) defies reason. After the Union’s three-year
stint in Siberia, the change is almost unbelievable. Due mainly to the architectural skill of Grover Meetze and the diligent
work of the Union staff, the Taverne has been well-received. The first audiences were large and enthusiastic. After only a
week of operation, the reaction is surprisingly not one of awe and caution that so often accompanies a new birth,
but one of receiving a long-lost friend. The atmosphere is relaxed and familiar.

Not only was the audience response decidedly positive, but the performers’ reactions were too. Madeline Brown expressed her satisfaction with
the set-up. "It’s a nice atmosphere," she said. "Other student unions don't have it." Robert Mayer, Chairman of the Coffee
House Committee (which coordinates many of the shows) is very enthusiastic about the future of the Taverne. He sees his
part as helping to create a professional atmosphere "all the way around." "We should be able to establish a truly
professional atmosphere in the Taverne," he said. "With performers we have succeeded beyond hopes, now it is up to the
students and those of us at the Union. This isn't Hattie’s," he said. "Here the students have the responsibility—in keeping
it clean and enjoyable."

Student responsibility weighs heavily, especially with regard to the newly acquired beer license. Ron Scott, director of ARA Slater Services,
said, "I feel it is the students’ responsibility to honor and respect the privilege of being able to consume malt
beverages on campus." According to Scott, the Taverne must maintain certain rules in order to preserve its license. Among the
rules:
1) No one under 18 can consume any alcoholic beverage in the Taverne. This includes any individual purchase or consumption
of a friend's purchase.
2) Admittance to the Taverne is limited to DC students, faculty, staff, and their guests (guests must be 18 or
over). Davidson students under 18 will be admitted only with the understanding that they honor a "code of ethics" not
to consume any alcoholic beverage in the Taverne.
3) No brown bagging is permitted; you can’t bring beer, wine, or liquor into the Taverne.
4) Beer cannot be taken out of the Taverne.
5) As proprietor, ARA has the right to refuse admittance to people already intoxicated or who would cause a disturbance.

Mr. Scott noted that while it is the moral obligation of the students and faculty to preserve the privilege, the
final responsibility lies with ARA. The success of the proverbial wine, women, and song part of it is already proven,
but according to Union Board President Richard Wassen, it is but the tip of the iceberg. Wassen calls the club
"a multi-use room." He notes that during the year, the Taverne will host (in addition to musical performances) drama, theatre,
lectures, club meetings, panels, and discussion groups. He also expressed a hope that the Taverne could house a discotheque as
often as student interest merits it. College Union Director C. Shaw Smith echoed this sentiment. "It is first a happy
gathering place—a well of friendship development—but look at all these wonderful things we can have in addition." He suggests that
this room is not one just for show.but a room which lends itself to any number of activities which in
years past were scattered in many different parts of the old union. It’s not just for beer-drinkers--it’s for everyone; it
not only looks nice but you can use it too!

Kuralt produces Bicentennial story (continued from page 1)

The project underway now encompasses a trip to each of the 50 states during the coming year, shooting a segment
of a key historical event from each. The series, “On the Road to '76,” is for the national bicentennial celebration.
CBS will combine all of the 50 segments into one special presentation for July 4, 1976, which Kuralt describes as
“one big, gaudy, bicentennial history of the United States.”

Kuralt is, of course, a newsman at heart. When asked what other type of employment he would like to be
engaged in, he responded, “I can’t imagine myself in any other line of work. This business is just in my
blood.” He did, however, admit some fascination with the legal profession, commenting that he watches “a lot of lawyers.”

“All reporters watch lawyers,” he said, “probably saying, ‘Gosh, I can do that.’”

Although he remains intrigued and happy with the profession to which he has dedicated so many years, Kuralt does not
attempt to lure people into the field. In fact, he contends that no one should get into journalism if they
do not like to work under great pressure and tension. “There are always more deadlines to meet,” he advised, with
the hint of many personal examples flowing through his mind.

Despite his obvious command of the “On the Road” series, Kuralt does not see the finished product before it is
aired, as all the editing is done in New York. But he is almost never surprised by the result, because,
“I do all the editing in my head while I write the script.”

Aside from giving an insight into his own type of reporting, the CBS correspondent told of the inner workings of
the nightly news, or as he would say, the “Cronkite News.” But the man generally spoke of the little people
who seldom make the news, most of whom probably never would were it not for the handful of reporters who
travel the backroads looking for the human interest stories.

Kuralt also postulated that the “idea of hick and hick town doesn’t exist any more in America.” His experiences with
the common man have convinced him that they are truly the backbone of a democratic society and should be treated
as such. He did advise that anyone who wanted to travel the states should take a long time in which
to do it and to, above all, travel slowly and talk to the people along the way.

Claiming that there is no longer a silent majority, Kuralt said that most people would gladly talk about any subject,
as long as someone took the time to stop and chat with them. He concluded by issuing one warning for
the prospective traveler, when traveling and talking with the small-town people. “The ultimate test of a country town’s friendliness is
when the local fishermen tell you where the best nearby fishing hole is.” And when you have consumed as much
chili and beer as the crewmen “On the Road” have, some fresh fish is mighty fine.
