She Davidsonian

“The meaning of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”
— Kenneth Boulding

Mark Deaton, Editor
Andrew Lamas, Executive Editor
Larry Mimms, Managing Editor

SIX MAY 15, 1975

Student orientation for the Board of Trustees

The candidacy of graduating senior and former SGA President Blain Butner for a position on the Board of Trustees is
cause to reexamine the composition of the present Davidson College Board. At present, various members of the trustees are elected
by the supporting presbyteries, the Alumni Association, and the trustees themselves. The composition of the board reflects the interests of
these groups. Unfortunately, there is no provision for student membership on the board.

The individual members of the present board have directed many of their talents toward Davidson. Virtually all are leaders in
business, education, church, or community. However, we remain uneasy at the minimal contact the majority of the trustees have with
the campus community. The most recent graduate of Davidson serving on the board was last a student here over 15
years ago. No member of the board has witnessed as a student the very fundamental changes in academics, athletics, and
social life which have occurred on campus in recent years. With the great majority of the information communicated to the
trustees coming from the administration, a student perspective on life at Davidson and student evaluation of the current programs can
be all too easily overlooked.

Although the trustees have been for the most part fairly responsive to students, we feel that communication there would be
better facilitated if there were a place on the Board of Trustees for younger members who have very recently graduated
from Davidson. As Davidson continues to face major decisions in the areas of campus planning, student life, and academic programming,
the Board of Trustees needs to be as fully informed as possible about contemporary Davidson. We believe that a graduating
student would be an asset to the Board of Trustees in dealing with these areas of concern in the 1970s.
We further believe that Blain Butner would serve the Board with enthusiasm and dedication. His tenure as Student Body President,
his service on the Trustee Governance Committee, his chairing of the Self-Study Committee of Students, and a variety of other
activities certainly substantiate his interest in and his concern for Davidson. We believe that the capable leadership he has exhibited
as a student is indicative of the service he would continue to provide as a trustee. We wholeheartedly support his
candidacy.

LIFE AT DAVIDSON

She Davidsonian

In which I take my parting shot at my Constant Nemesis

Commendable (Note to monsters: First move, the ankle.) lunge for the clock, Alarm sounds, Wildcat males gain upper hand. Wildcat
position is, at present, hopeless, another Meredith Hall at home.

Pragmatism obstructs vision for tomorrow

Pragmatism is the watchword of today’s politicians. Even those who detest Richard Nixon seem thoroughly impressed with the virtue of
“being realistic and practical.” This seems to me to be another situation where human beings do not accurately grasp a
process they appreciate and wish to imitate. The 1940s and 1950s abounded with pragmatic leaders. Menlike General George Marshall and
Sam Rayburn were able to get things done. They helped lead the country through very trying times. In doing so,
they were admired by men like Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon. But it is not true that Sam Rayburn and
Franklin Roosevelt were born pragmatists. They were not always more concerned with how you get something passed rather than what.
A subtle change has come. Lyndon Johnson made his reputation in the United States Senate as a "can do" leader.
Richard Nixon seems to have never developed a steady self-image or set of ideals. Leadership became a rather narrow enterprise
with him. He was pragmatic to the point of blindness. Many politicians decry the style of the last years of
leadership. But they maintain pride in their pragmatism. My fear is that they are too concerned with today to have
vision for tomorrow. They do not seem to sense that pragmatism must be fueled and directed from the energy of
idealism. Today's imitators of pragmatic politics see the beauty and necessity of being realistic but they have not harnessed this
approach to the dreams that stirred men like Rayburn, Jefferson, and Truman. Our befuddlement over Vietnam seems to demonstrate this.
We supported and efficiently (U.S. style) developed an army to fight against people who believed in what they were fighting
for.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.

The South Vietnamese were fighting against something and the Viet Cong for something. Our present brand of pragmatism does not
have the flavor of being for something. Sam Rayburn’s pragmatism grew from the life experience of a very sensitive idealistic
person. It was a style that was individual, not imitative.

Letter to the Editor

Mafia thanks hapless victims

To the Editor:

We, the members of the Pie Mafia, would like to cordially thank the following individuals, who by their patience and
good humor helped to raise approximately $150 for CARE to be used in relief of world hunger:
- Bob Hoag
- Steve Boyd
- Chris Manglesdorf
- Ruth Brown
- Bill Kehr
- Phil Caine
- Bill Vaughn
- Steve Pharr
- Dave Skibbens
- Professor Sam Maloney

Of course, we also appreciate the individuals and groups of individuals who took out and paid for contracts on these
unfortunate souls.

‘The Don’
Davidson College

Letter to the Editor

Canterbury wins Phi distinction

To the Editor:

At the request of the recipient, the Philanthropic Literary Society of Davidson College would like to publicly announce that Steven
D. Canterbury has been awarded the 1975 Arthur Crumbly Jackson “Flaming——” Award. The Philanthropic Society humbly apologizes to Mr. Canterbury
for failing to provide tangible recognition of this award. The Society would suggest that Mr. Canterbury employs the use of
a pair of scissors to eviscerate the essence of this pronouncement and to satisfy his quest for notoriety.

William L. Smith Jr. '76
President, Philanthropic Society
Davidson College
