April 24, 1975

The Davidsonian

Thirteen Netters finish season at 7-2, Face tourney on Citadel clay

By GORDON WIDENHO
Contributing Editor

The Davidson Wildcats finished their regular tennis season with a 7-2 win over the Citadel Bulldogs Wednesday afternoon in Charleston,
S.C., to enter the conference tournament on a good note.

The tournament, which is being played on the Bulldogs’ home courts, got underway Thursday, with Appalachian going in as the
favored team to capture their second straight Southern Conference crown. A question mark for the tourney is the status of
Mountaineer standout Keith Richardson. The veteran performer recently turned an ankle against UNC-Charlotte, ending his winning string at 99 successive
matches. Richardson will play in the tourney, but appears to be hampered somewhat by the injury. Of further significance is
the fact that John Garratty, the number two player for the Apps, turned an ankle in pre-tournament practice at the
Citadel late Wednesday. He will also play, but may not be performing at top level for the event.

Davidson head coach Jeff Frank has had optimistic ideas about the season-ending finale. His most important rationale is that the
tourney will be played on clay, the type of surface which Davidson uses for their home matches. Appalachian and several
other conference schools compete primarily on hard courts, which should put them at a disadvantage this weekend.

Frank was also pleased with the tournament seedings, which were finalized by the annual drawing held on Wednesday. The Davidson
Wildcats received favorable seedings in several categories. Mike Barnhill, Stuart Boswell, and Steve Holman fill the fourth, fifth, and sixth
singles spots in that order. The top doubles team of Quinby and Boswell is seeded sixth, which is one of
the tougher seedings for the Cats. Bondurant and Barnhill are ranked fourth at the second doubles. The best seeding came
at the third doubles where Mitchell and Greg Dunn are seeded second.

Frank felt that the seedings were exceptionally good, noting that the Cats are in particularly good shape at the fourth,
fifth, and sixth singles and the second doubles. About the third doubles, Frank mentioned that this was the best chance
the Cats had for a first-place finish, although the chances at other spots are not disastrous.

"Another thing of importance is that Furman and Appalachian are set to hit each other in several key semifinal matches.
If they can knock each other off in a couple of places, then we are certainly going to be in
the thick of things." Frank was quick to emphasize that the Cats received very good draws a year ago and
relaxed in the first round, which proved very costly. "I warned the boys about this and I think they are
mentally ready to play," Frank pointed out, adding, "and I know they are ready physically."

Quinby got things started off right against the number one singles pairings. Chip Bondurant was fourth in the second singles
and John Mitchell was sixth at number three.the Bulldogs by taking a come-from-behind win over Mike Martin in the number
one singles. After dropping the first set, the Davidson senior came roaring back to capture the victory by a score
of 5-7, 6-4, 6-1. Bondurant came through in the second singles position with ease as he waltzed by Tommy Bunch
6-3, 6-1. Sandy Haltiwanger snapped the Cat string in the singles as he took the number three match from Mitchell,
6-4, 6-4. Barnhill topped Jon Foshee, 6-2, 7-5; Boswell nailed Mal Atkins, 6-3, 6-1; and Holman bopped Bill Ohlandt, 6-1,
6-1 in the fourth, fifth and sixth slots respectively. Doubles activity started off poorly for the Cats as they lost
the two position with Martin and Bunch teaming for a 6-7, 6-3, 7-5 win over Quinby and Boswell. But Bondurant
and Barnhill demolished Haltiwanger and Foshee by a score of 6-1, 6-2 in the second doubles. Dunn joined Holman to
climax the match for Davidson as they trounced Ohlandt and Atkins in the third doubles slot by a score of
6-2, 6-4. Frank was pleased with the team’s performance in the victory. He felt that even in the losing efforts,
the players played good, solid tennis and appeared ready for the tournament. Earlier in the week the Cats had taken
an 8-1 drumming at the hands of South Carolina. In that match on Monday, Brian Cooper was the only winner
for Davidson as he bested Mason Legard, 7-5, 6-4. The loss came after the Davidson squad had ripped VMI by
a score of 9-0 on Saturday. —Pete Goodman

Nice Service
Becca Stimson returns the ball in her lead-off match against South Carolina last Wednesday. She won 6-4, 3-6, 7-5 and
the Cattes took a strong 9-0 victory.

Authorized Dealer Service and Sales
MOORESVILLE - The God we worship doesn't ask us to help one another. He demands it.

252 N. Main Street
BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

Lenoir Rhyne 2 p.m.
VMI Mooresville Home 12 noon
Davidson A vs. Davidson 1:30 p.m.
UNC-CH vs. Wilmington 3 p.m.
Consolations 3 p.m.
Tournament Final

April Best Gainata Home
Schlitz Draft Beer Hours:
Wednesday, April 30
Pitcher Mon.-Thurs. 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
Thursday Regular—$2.50 Friday: 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
3 p.m. Baseball: Home Students—$2.00 Sat: 10:30 a.m.-8 p.m.
