the davidsonian

December 12, 1975

9

Gerdy guns in 18

Cats lose to Redmen, Battle ECU tomorrow

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcat Basketball team, like Colgate and Manhattan before them, fell to perennial New York power St. John’s, Saturday,
91-79.

The win upped the Redmen’s record to 3-0, and left the Wildcats at 1-2.

The experienced St. John’s team, coached by Lou Carnesecca, took advantage of numerous Davidson mistakes right from the start and
never trailed.

The Redmen rushed off to an 8-0 lead in the first three minutes. For most of the first half, they
dominated the young Wildcats, with outside shooting and offensive rebounding.

It was not until the 5:34 mark in the first half that the Wildcats showed that they too had come
to play. They outscored the Redmen 13-4, making the tally at half-time 38-32 in favor of St. John’s.

The second half started out much like the first, with St. John’s moving out to a 47-34 lead in the
first few minutes due to several Davidson turnovers.

Neither team missed many shots in the final 20 minutes, but the Wildcats’ unsure ball-handling prevented Davidson from making the
game close.

St. John’s slowly put the victory in their pocket. With just 2:47 left, they led 86-66. Davidson managed a late
rally that succeeded in tightening the final score, but could not close the gap completely.

The Redmen shot 56 percent for the game and had five players in double figures.

George Johnson led the scoring with 20 points, hitting 9 of his 13 shots. He also had 10 rebounds to
be the game leader in that department.

Glen Williams, who was 7 for 10 in the first half, finished with 18 points, while Beaver Smith and Cecil
Rellford had 14 each.

Davidson finished the game shooting 55.2 percent, connecting on 20 of 29 attempts in the second half. The Wildcats, however,
committed 28 turnovers.

John Gerdy led Davidson scorers for the third game straight by sinking 9 of 15 shots for 18 points.

Marvin Lively and Pat Hickert also scored in double figures for the Wildcats, with 14 and 10 respectively.

Coach Bo Brickels’ Wildcats, slowly gaining experience, face Baylor Thursday in Charlotte.

They hit the road again to face Southern Conference rival East Carolina, Saturday in Greenville, and non-conference foe Georgia Tech,
Tuesday in Atlanta.

-Pete Goodman

Jim Rice shoots over short St. John’s guard.

Dulany, Phillips sparkle in recent wrestling tourney

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Last weekend’s Catawba Invitational Wrestling Tournament was a showcase for two Davidson freshmen, Pat Dulany and Scott Phillips.

Dulany and Phillips were the only Davidson wrestlers to place in the tourney. Dulany brought home the third place trophy
in the 142 lb. weight class, while Phillips captured the fourth place spot in the 177 lb. class.

Both of these freshmen had exceptional wrestling careers in their high school days. Dulany learned his wrestling skills in Maryland,
and as a senior he placed second in the National Prep School Tournament.

Scott Phillips and Sophomore Glenn Ballard were on the same high school team in Texas. Phillips placed second in the
state as a junior, and his senior year he won the championship. They both continued their winning ways last weekend.

Dulany and Phillips followed different paths to their place finishes. In the first round Dulany upset the top-seeded wrestler in
the 142 lb. class by the score of 5-2, and in the second round he triumphed 11-4. Dulany’s third match
of the day was a bitter overtime defeat.

Dulany lost to the eventual champion in a close match in which neither wrestler could successfully move against the other.
Dulany is anxiously awaiting the dual meet with Campbell College so he can avenge his defeat. After his loss, Dulany
had to win two more matches to capture third place.

Phillips’ performance was quite remarkable considering he only had two days of practice before the tournament. Although not in the
best of shape to wrestle five matches in one day, he still managed to win three matches. One of Phillips’
wins was an impressive 23-second pin.

(See GRAPPLERS, page 19)

Swimmers

(Continued from page 18)

del, have agreed to compete against Davidson only on the swimming level, improving the team’s chances somewhat. Last season Davidson
finished 3-9 and Drake sees little chance for a winning season this year. But over the past year she has
brought a new look to the swimming program as she has created a much more rigid training schedule.

“I lost quite a few people from last year’s squad because I decided it was going to be a fair
program. If I set up requirements, then everybody was going to have to meet them. I’m more satisfied with the
team I’ve got now,” she said.

In addition, Drake has started a recruiting program to help attract top high school swimmers to Davidson. Although the recruiting
is low key, she has a list of several prospects for next year’s team.

“I believe all we need is about four big guns in our program and we could be much more competitive,”
Drake pointed out.
