January 16, 1975
The Davidsonian

Seven
Mark Deaton

A very touching story from a Davidson student has reached my eyes and ears, and I feel obligated to share
it with you:

“You should have been there, Lance,” I said while sitting on the toilet on the first floor of the Little
Library. “Really, the game was great. Some guy from the other team mistook Larry Horowitz’s head for the basketball, and
got a traveling charge put on him.”

I could hear Lance, in the next stall, flipping the pages of the G.R.E. sample booklet. “Oh yea, did he
return the favor?” Lance mumbled.

“No,” I called out, “he just kept on playing like a good Christian and never blinked an eye-lash. In the
end, victory was ours, and the good guys were victorious.”

Lance hadn’t been to a game in five years, ever since he mistook a basketball game at the coliseum for
a boat show during his second sophomore year. After we finished up in the men’s room, I armed Lance up
to the smoking lounge. I could see he wanted to talk about it.

“How come you don’t attend the basketball games, Lance?”

“Oh, I just have so much work. I’m taking, you know, two courses, and besides, my girlfriend calls on Saturday
nights around 8:30 p.m.” Lance lit up the wrong end of his Winston. It was evident that he felt guilty
about missing the St. John’s game. I tried to comfort him.

“You know, Lance, your girl could call you on Sunday. Besides, she lives in Watts. And you could study Saturday
afternoon instead of Saturday night. Don’t you want to cheer your team on to victory?” I knew I had a
full mental press on Lance now. He squirmed in his seat.

“Yea, I do,” Lance began. “But if I go I’d look stupid cheering. I’m not one to stand up and
quote ‘rip ‘em up, tear ‘em up’ and all that bullshit.” Lance’s eyes were filling up.

Davidsonian Re-Examines Role

This issue of The Davidsonian will reach more readers than any other single issue printed in the past. More than
4000 alumni, parents, and other friends of Davidson will receive a free copy. The reason for such a move surpasses
the very real motives of increasing subscription revenues and keeping more readers informed about current news and opinions at Davidson.
The reason lies at the basis of the editorial policy which the new Davidsonian staff will be implementing during the
next year. It is an idea reflected in Kenneth Boulding’s statement which appears above the editorial column this week—“The meaning
of a message is the change which it produces in the image.”

Just as The Davidsonian will re-examine the potential of its current verbal/visual presentation to affect the community, we must also
reach more people concerned with Davidson if we are to be promoters of change in the message Davidson presents. Davidson
has ridden on its “Princeton of the South” image for many years, but we have gotten virtually all the mileage
we can from that comparative relationship. In terms of student SAT points earned before arrival at Davidson and in terms
of faculty credentials accumulated before coming to Davidson, the comparison is not totally incommensurable. Yet in terms of the effect
we have on each other in this community and the effect Davidson has on others outside of its immediate community,
the comparison with Princeton is simply not valid.

Davidson advertises its sense of community as a major drawing card to prospective students. Yet perceptive seniors write that they
are only now, after three years at Davidson, beginning to recognize that sense of community. We have forfeited our ability
to affect this community, and we schedule our lives to keep it from affecting us. We have imposed superficial standards
upon ourselves to create an artificial community. Whimperings of great academic pressure here are not juxtaposed with publications of innovative
student work. We have exerted pressure on ourselves to learn the same facts that previous students learned, but we have
not placed pressure on ourselves to do creative work. Faculty tenure has been a more prevalent topic of conversation than
the innovative research tenure allows professors to pursue. And our Princeton “publish or perish” standards break down when we ask
where the Davidson printing press is located. I’m afraid our printing press is at the Princeton of the North as
are our Paul Rudolph dormitories, art gallery, chemistry facilities, fine arts building, and athletic field houses. Our public relations department
claims we are a leader in education, but closer examination reveals that this claim cannot be supported.

Yet the editorial policy of The Davidsonian for the upcoming year is one which will constantly scrutinize our ability to
affect Davidson to make Davidson effective. We hope we will not simply motivate “a willingness to contemplate what is happening,”
but a willingness to make news at Davidson through an examination of our present image and what that image could
be. The editors view The Davidsonian as providing a forum for opinion and criticism; we hope to serve as a
gadfly to this community. Andy Lamas, Mark Wilensky, and I have taken the responsibility of providing the major editorial thrust
of The Davidsonian. Yet we also offer guest columns to anyone whoseImage of Davidson differs from ours, and we would
be pleased to see our Letters to the Editor column filled weekly. Davidson is not Princeton, nor should it try
to be. Yet in terms of the effect Davidson has outside this community and the effect we should be having
on each other within this community, the "Princeton of the South" image serves as a challenge. And until this community
demands more of itself, we must recognize that the walls of the Princeton of the South are not only devoid
of ivy, but that few members of this community are cultivating it.

Ghandi Deserves Vote As Person Of Century

Three quarters of the century gone. By any account, it has been one of the more talked about centuries. In
this old house which saw the 18th and 19th centuries, one would hope to develop a perspective. But the place
communicates with me in subtle ways and a sense of perspective is not always easily obtained by a human. Churchill
said something like "15 years is beyond memory for most and 50 years is antiquity."

It is fitting that I should mention Churchill because he is often the nominee for the person of the century.
Of course, others might declare for Chairman Mao. Some say Albert Einstein. Ford’s star may have been dimmed by pollution
and other side effects. Some die-hards will vote for Evel Knievel. Albert Schweitzer, Franklin Roosevelt, Werner Von Braun, King Faisal,
and Martin Luther King Jr. would have some support.

It is obvious that few women in the first 75 years have gotten much public responsibility. Of course, the real
person of the century is me and I hope that you are your own nominee. However, if one public figure
shines above all others to me, if one person’s contribution and potential effect for all of us has been most
evident to me, I could only nominate Mohandas Gandhi. This modern-day purveyor of non-violence, the example of the means justifying
the end, the obtainer of independence without war, this was the Mahatma.

If someone wrote a novel portraying the lifestyle of Gandhi and listed his accomplishments, it would be regarded as totally
unrealistic. I pray he has not lived in vain. Gandhi communicated with intuition. He was his own life and cared
about all. He was human, he made errors, and he was a good father to his own. But he was
a remarkable man. If you come to know of him, you might consider him the other Person of the Century.

Tearful Lance Regrets Absence At St. John’s

With tears, I could see that my counseling had taken effect. He saw how important he was to the team’s
success. He had that repentant, sheepish look on his face. Lance looked out the window from where he sat, and
then got up and strolled around the room shaking his head.

“Lighting that cigarette the wrong way really messed my eyes up. Wow, that smarts. Have you ever done that, Mel?”

“I don’t smoke, Lance.”

Lance crushed his butt out and wiped his tears from his eyes.

“Lance, listen. Next week, we play South Carolina. You can ride in with me and Hildegard, O.K.? She won’t mind,
and you can ride up front with her. She’s a safe driver.”

Lance looked grateful but managed to get out, “No Mel. I'd rather, if I did go, ride the bus, or
go in with my friends. We like to do a few numbers before things like that. No offense. You understand.”

“Sure, sure Lance,” I said victoriously.

Lance got up and left the smoking lounge, laughing and saying my name over and over again. He saw I
was right and he was thanking me again and again. His laughter was a sign of a new spirit in
Lance’s old mind. Lance finally saw how much the team needed him.

The Davidson student is not apathetic. The poor turnout at the St. John’s game was due to an earthquake in
the basement of the squash court. Luckily no one was playing at the time it occurred. I know that all
Davidson students love and possess school spirit. All they need is a little counseling, like I gave Lance. So my
friends—if you know of someone who has, so to speak, missed the bus, take him into your car and drive
him to the game yourself. School spirit is essential. Everyone has it, and the team needs it. Don’t be a
Lance, but if you feel it overpowering you, don’t panic. You too may receive counseling. Before each home basketball game
at the coliseum, I will be behind the Davidson bench near that historic spot where Bo Brickels’ jacket landed. Until
then, see you there, and peace!

The author of the above gem is Melvin Morshmirer, Belk-704, of Tora-Tora, New Jersey. Thanks, Mel, for sharing it with
us. Next week, Mel drives the South Carolina team to Charlotte.

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters must be received in The Davidsonian’s offices by Sunday night
to be printed.
