240

Cats defeat Abbey in dual rugby play

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rugby Club managed to overcome a 6-4 halftime deficit and fought to a 10-6 win over Belmont Abbey this past Sunday at Belmont.

Davidson jumped off to a quick lead as Wilbourne Swaim broke open for a 20-yard try. Belmont came roaring back, however, and with a series of good kicks gained excellent field position.

Despite the efforts of Mike Robinson, Tim Wilkins, and field Captain Bucky Banks, Belmont eventually scored. A successful conversion kick suddenly made it 6-4.

During the remainder of the first half, Davidson was constantly on the attack and had ample opportunities to score, but squandered them away with penalties, poor passing, and lackluster hooking in the scrum.

The second half saw more inspired play on Davidson's part. Jeff Morrow won practically every lineout, Wilkins made a couple of try-stopping open field tackles, and Chip Crawford broke loose for some long runs to set up Swaim’s second try of the afternoon.

Davidson's scrum asserted itself well throughout the afternoon, and good pursuit coupled with gang-tackling tactics helped stave off a late Belmont rally.

During the second game of the afternoon, Davidson finally got untracked and won handily, 24-0.

They managed to score practically at will, all the while maintaining a tenacious defense. Crawford and Swaim scored two tries each, while Joe Craig and Rusty Holt each got one.

The Ruggers take on always-tough Wake Forest in a home match, this Sunday at 2:00 PM. Spectators are urged to attend, as they try to up their record to 3-1.

October 15, 1976

A LITTLE TOO LATE. D. C. Augustine tries to retrieve the ball for the Cats during the Davidson-Duke match Wednesday.

Soccer team avenges road losses then drops 2-1 decision to Wake

By CARTER TODD and TED JONES

Davidson's soccer squad lost an early 1-0 lead and went on to lose 2-1 to the Duke Blue Devils here Wednesday afternoon. The Cats’ goal came from scrappy Dave Patton and the team managed to hold Duke scoreless until late in the first period. Davidson then missed an open shot and within a minute the Devils had tied it up on striker Bill Huntley’s goal. The only scoring in the second half was another Devil goal, this one also by Bill Huntley.

The Cats’ starting goalie, Bob Perz, did not see action because of an injured leg and freshman Doug Schuessler played in his place. The Blue Devils goalie also was injured and left the game with muscle spasms in his back.

Davidson Coach Chip Stone felt there was no reason the Wildcats shouldn’t have won. He noted that they missed a total of four shots on an open goal.

The Wildcats opened their home schedule against UNC-Charlotte after five straight losses on the road. The team seemed to take out its frustrations on the hapless 49ers, as freshmen Pete Sluiter and Scott Wall, Co-Captain Gordon Maner, Spanish exchange student Andrez Perez and strikers Dave Patton and Paul Schliefer all scored for Davidson. The Cats took 48 shots on goal to just five for UNC-C. Davidson then confronted a highly regarded South Carolina squad in a violent, hard-fought match. Four yellow cards (warnings) were issued by the referees, including one to Coach Chip Stone and another to Co-Captain Gordon Maner. Dave Patton was thrown out of the contest after an argument over a penalty called late in the second half. Although South Carolina took twice as many shots as Davidson, a collapsing, loose defense prevented USC’s “long-pass-and-shoot” strategy to materialize. Good hustling play by goalies Bob Perz and Doug Schuessler earned them their second straight shutout.

A brilliant sliding save was made by fullback and Co-Captain Paul Parker on a shot, blocked by the charging Schuessler but appeared to be rolling in. In defeating South Carolina, Davidson handed them only their second loss, lowering their record to 9-2. Dave Patton scored the only goal.

Monday afternoon, back home at Davidson, the soccer team took on East Carolina University. Davidson scored early during a skirmish in front of the goal in which freshman Mark Noel tipped in a rebound from a Dave Patton shot blocked by the goalie. The Wildcats appeared to dominate the game, though once again the outstanding play of Perz, Schuessler, and Parker prevented many ECU opportunities.

Davidson appeared to have the game won when a controversial hands ball penalty was called on Paul Parker of Davidson in the penalty area as an erratic shot struck his arm from behind. Davidson’s argument that it was done unintentionally fell on deaf ears, and ECU scored the ensuing penalty kick. The game ended in a tie after two overtime periods.

Davidson’s heavy schedule continues, playing Furman at Greenville October 15, and Appalachian State at Davidson October 20. The Wildcats now stand 2-5-1 on the season.

Your Gift Headquarters

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503