the davidsonian

November 5, 1976

Dittman assumes V-P post
By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

New Vice President for Development Dwayne Dittman will be responsible for coordinating all the efforts by everyone concerned for Davidson
to advance the college through the understanding and support of alumni, staff, and others. Dittman joined the Davidson College staff,
replacing former Vice President Craven E. Williams who became President of Gardner-Webb College last August.

Dittman describes his job as “coordinating all the efforts by everyone concerned for Davidson to advance the college through the
understanding and support of alumni, make people who aren’t sympathetic believe that there are good things going on here is
my job,” he said. He will also be responsible for the staff working on the 35 million dollar fund-raising project,
coordinating the efforts of everyone concerned.

Another angle besides fund-raising is helping students find jobs. “My job is putting people together, not all fund-raising. I could
help a senior get a job and help an alumnus find a bright student to employ,” he said.

He came to Davidson because he felt the four major areas of his job were important, but he has no
concrete plans to involve the student body at present. “I think students can help in many ways, in little ways,”
he said, citing as an example, “when someone gives an endowment and a student writes him and thanks him for
it.”

Dittman believes there are two benefits in using students as fund-raisers: “One, the most obvious, is to raise money,” he
said. The second is that people outside the college will notice that students are involved, and will improve their opinion
and sympathy for Davidson.

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Cashier killed in auto mishap

Mrs. Betty D. Washam, a clerk in the Comptroller's Office, died in an auto accident last Saturday, October 30, on
Highway 115 just outside of Davidson. Mrs. Washam, a Huntersville resident, came to Davidson in March of 1971; she had
worked in the Comptroller’s Office as cashier and general clerk ever since. Surviving are her husband and four children.

Reflecting on Mrs. Washam, Director of Personnel Robert Stephenson said, “She had a very even disposition and was a consistently
pleasant person. She seemed to be always in a jovial mood.” Stephenson lamented her death as a great loss to
the Davidson community.

According to reports, Mrs. Washam was driving when her car was struck by a speeding automobile which crossed the center
line into her lane. The driver of the other vehicle, 30-year-old Kenneth Sherry of Charlotte, was also killed.

In just 3 seconds a cigarette makes your heart beat faster, shoots your blood pressure up, replaces oxygen in your
blood with carbon monoxide, and leaves cancer-causing chemicals to spread through your body. All this happens with every cigarette you
smoke. As the cigarettes add up, the damage adds up. Because it's the cumulative effects of smoking—adding this cigarette to
all the cigarettes you ever smoked—that causes the trouble. And tell that to your dog, too.

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE

This Space Contributed as a Public Service

Sharing the world’s foodstuffs equitably. To dramatize the need of some nations for food and to solicit donations, CROP will
hold a fast on November 11 at Davidson and a World Food Day fast on April 21. Those participating in
these fasts are requested to not eat during the fast days and to donate the money they would normally spend
on food for that day to starvation areas around the world to help alleviate the desperate conditions, mainly through the
introduction of farming equipment to rural areas,” said Davidson CROP fast organizer Joyce Stahmann.

These are the countries with the majority of the world’s population. [Continued from page 1]Action by staying after class to
ask questions or drop by their offices.” Members of the group emphasize that when compared to other schools, the quality
of student-faculty interaction is very good at Davidson, but **Just Us** in the 900 room Fri. and Sat. 10:30 and
11:30.

The per capita GNP is equivalent to $140. The fourth world has a population of about one billion, roughly one
quarter.

Dwayne Dittman, parents, friends of the college, aspects of a well-rounded person or institution are present here: the intellectual, physical,
spiritual, and social.

“Everybody that cares about Davidson.” “I had always heard of Davidson's reputation. Davidson is a great college; everything I looked
at spoke of quality—the academic program, the faculty, and much more,” Dittman said. He is responsible for directing the alumni
and parents programs, the Church relations program, and all college-related publications not handled by students or the Communications Office. He
believes student involvement can be beneficial to fund-raising.

CROP, (the Christian Rural Overseas Program), dedicates itself to American consumed an average of 2,000 pounds of grain, most of
it indirectly in the form of meat. The average Asian had only 400 pounds of grain to eat last year,
most of it directly in the form of rice. Stahmann suggests that CROP does more than simply attempt to alleviate
hunger in the world. According to her, CROP deals also with all the problems of world hunger, including population problems.
“Surveys show that birth rates do not decline until basic social needs have been satisfied, including an assured food supply
and at least rudimentary health services,” said Stahmann. “People naturally want offspring to survive them; if they live in a
situation where food is scarce and where children die of disease, starvation, or malnutrition, they will feel that they must
have as many children as possible in order to assure themselves that some will survive. Future-oriented hunger relief must go
hand-in-hand with family planning programs or people will not utilize family planning,” added Stahmann.

CROP sends most of its resources and money to fourth-world countries. Davidson CROP has also offered weekly share-it-with-your-neighbor meals on
Tuesdays in Chambers Banquet Hall to further solicit funds so that CROP may do its work.

Student-faculty rapport that there is always room for improvement. Dr. Max Polley, a member of the group, feels that the
desire to improve faculty-student relations is an ongoing process. “I think that every generation of students senses a need for
closer ties with the faculty. It’s very good to get students and faculty who share common interests together, but we
must remember that both students and professors often engage in hobbies as a means of temporarily escaping from Davidson and,
if that is the case, their privacy should be respected. I doubt that informal academic gatherings would be of much
interest since the pressure here is a result of assigned academic work.” Polley also feels that faculty relations are weakest
with the sophomore class. “We really pull out the stops with the freshmen each year and juniors and seniors are
in close contact with their major departments, but the sophomores are left out.” He went on to express regret that
large activities such as student-faculty golf and tennis tournaments and fish fries fell out of favor in the 1960s. “This
type of gathering was ideal for relating to each other as individuals and I'd like to see a return to
it.”
