The Davidsonian, October 1, 1976

Ford leads Carter in campus survey

By KEVIN WHITE

To cover this election, the Davidsonian will conduct a series of bi-monthly polls aimed at discovering the influencing factors of this election. These are the results of the first poll, dealing solely with President Ford.

President Ford controls a formidable lead over his Democratic challenger Jimmy Carter in a survey conducted prior to the Presidential debate of September 23. Asked for whom they would vote if the election were held today, 53 percent said they would vote for Ford, 40 percent would vote for Carter, 4 percent were split between Lester Maddox and Eugene McCarthy, and the remaining 6 percent were undecided.

In analyzing President Ford’s support among the student body, 65 percent felt more closely associated with the Republican Party, 16 percent considered themselves Democratic, and 19 percent claimed to be Independents. These figures, when compared to the analysis of Carter's support in the student body, show a clear distinction between Ford and Carter's political bases. 83 percent of Carter supporters were Democrats, 4 percent were Republicans, and 13 percent were Independents. Ford attracts more Independent and Democratic voters than Carter does Independent and Republican voters. Carter’s support is predominantly Democratic, while Ford naturally draws much support from the Republican ranks in addition to 35 percent from other parties.

44 percent of the students said they felt more closely associated with the Democratic Party. Davidson students are conscientious voters: 91 percent said they had plans to vote in November.

This first poll of Campaign '76 concentrated on the various strengths and weaknesses associated with President Ford's candidacy. Asked to rate Ford on a scale of one to five, with five being the highest rating, Ford received the highest rating in restoring trust in the White House. Ford was rated the lowest in his relations with Congress.

One of Ford’s possible weak points is his association with former President Nixon, ranging from Ford’s domestic and foreign policies to his pardon of Nixon. 61 percent agreed that Ford’s administration was a continuation of Nixon’s basic policies. 57 percent agree with the pardon, 77 percent felt the pardon was not an issue in this campaign, but 53 percent said they did not think it would be unfair if Carter brought the pardon up as a campaign issue.

An overwhelming 81 percent felt Ford should not bear the political responsibility for Watergate. Thus, the Nixon association and the pardon seem to be negligible factors in the voters’ minds, as indicated by Ford’s 13 percent margin over Carter.

Following are the individual results for other questions on the questionnaire. The results were calculated from a total of 455 returned questionnaires.

First in a series of surveys:

1. Do you think Ford’s campaign strategy is wise?
   Yes 66 percent
   No 34 percent

2. Will the debates be the deciding factor in this campaign?
   Yes 60 percent
   No 40 percent

On rating President Ford:
1. Restoration of trust in White House
2. Leadership ability
3. Handling of

---

900 ROOM SPECIAL
FREE Mini Cheese Tray With Purchase Of Favorite Beverage By The Pitcher
Thurs. Oct. 7, — 8-11 pm

---

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841inflation Handling of unemployment Relations with Congress Percent 18 47 41 19 39 30 47 17 2 4 19 9 24 15 27 5 19

PIRG initiates new study, emphasizes penal reforms

Finding alternatives to being locked up and deprived of social interaction, a pursuit that has captured the attention of Davidson students for many years, has now become a project for the Davidson Chapter of NC PIRG (North Carolina Public Interest Research Group). The prisoners PIRG will concern itself with are not persons in the North Carolina State Prison System. PIRG has begun a study which will culminate in recommendations for state-wide prison reform. Minister to Students Rush Otey and Professor of Sociology Robert D. Ruth are assisting PIRG in organizing the prisoners in the Huntersville unit for several years. Ruth regularly holds a seminar on social and criminal issues in the spring term at Davidson.

NC PIRG State Chairperson and Davidson Senior John Hedrick hopes to receive wide support from other interested students at Davidson. “We seem to have struck a nerve in the students with these issues,” said Hedrick. “Never before have we had this many people attend an organizational meeting like we had September 20.” Hedrick suggested that the turnout of Davidson students had been so great that he would push to make prison reform a state-wide PIRG project.

Monday, Davidson PIRG members and interested others heard from Jeff Campbell, an ex-convict and director of ECHO, a group of released prisoners. Campbell suggested some of the prison reforms that were necessary in North Carolina. He particularly pointed to overcrowding of the state’s prisons as a problem to be solved. “There is always the bureaucracy of the system that is very hard to deal with,” advised Campbell. “There are numerous roadblocks to education now in the system, only 900 felons. The others are there due to public apathy. People speak of ‘our roads’ or ‘our state parks’ but never of ‘our prisons’,” said Campbell.

If the prisons of North Carolina do not receive much interest from the state’s citizenry, the prisons do receive a large number of the state’s citizens inside their gates. North Carolina has the largest per capita prison population in the United States. “There are 13,600 people in the North Carolina System. There is only space for 10,200,” said Campbell. “We are criminalizing so many people in this state, it is about time for somebody to become aware of the situations,” he continued.

Campbell advised against the building of more prisons. His contention is that proposals for new prison space come from politicians seeking to run on “Law and Order tickets.” The election of such politicians will only add to the problem of criminalizing non-criminals, according to Campbell. “Of the 13,600 prisoners, there are many who have been incarcerated for driving without a license, or missing an alimony payment,” said Campbell.

One system of education for prisoners that is now in use is the Street Academy. The Street Academy is a school in Charlotte for juvenile delinquents and others who are not able to fit into a regular school system. PIRG will have some suggestions for continuing and expanding the Street Academy idea so that it may include the state's prisoners.