October 15, 1976

Students invent reliefs for frustration

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

Combatting frustration may well be the most frustrating work one can do. Time-consuming, mentally aggravating, and physically exhausting, the war
against frustration, however, because it is important, continues to occupy much of the Davidson student's efforts. Each individual at Davidson
has his own particular set of frustrations and usually a set of partially satisfying reliefs. A senior English major, for
example, writes to vent his spleen. Another senior said, “I got so depressed last Sunday that I ate five packs
of M & M’s.”

Davidson has various facilities for help in relieving frustrations. The athletic facilities are the places for physically taking out frustrations
by such activities as playing basketball, running around the track, or any other physical exertion. “Running really helps me clear
my head,” said one student. At times the overcrowded gym can be a source of frustration all its own, so
some students prefer to relax at the Union. Union director C. Shaw Smith observed, “We can offer a valuable partial
answer, if we (students and union staff) can make it work.” “It’s not Hattie’s, but the 900 Room is nice,”
said one student. Another person observed, “The Union would be better if it was 200 miles away from campus.” “I
think,” said one senior, “it’s a neat place and could be great if more people participated. It would be nice,
for example, to go over at ten o’clock every morning and read your mail and see people.”

Housed in the basement of the Union building is another place to take your frustrations. The counseling center, with a
staff of psychologists, is readily available to all students. Dr. Meredith Hall expressed doubts about having such a “center.” “It’s
a nice facility, but it’s too formal in many respects,” he said. “I would prefer a more relaxed situation.” A
student also responded along these lines when questioned about the value of the counseling center. “The idea is basically good,
but by the time anyone gets it into their head to go it’s too late. It’s a last resort because
society has led us to believe getting this type of help is a sign of weakness and it’s hard to
overcome that stigma,” she said.

Many students feel that one of the most viable ways of dealing with the frustrations of Davidson life is to
leave for a while. “Going abroad or otherwise leaving Davidson for a term or a year can really help you
out of your rut,” said one senior. Another student added, “You get so stifled here. During a term away you
can break out and be your own person. Going abroad was the best thing I’ve done in my whole career
at Davidson.”

Meanwhile, there are many unique ways of relieving frustrations that ingenious Davidson students have come up with. The more common
pastimes people mentioned were running, eating, sleeping, eating ice, and goofing off by talking to people. One student said, “I
turn on Mott the Hoople or the Stones.”

[Continued from page 1]

...renovation needed, updating planned

In each of the dorms, after the planned-for kitchen in Little is completed, the program could screech to a halt.
“We would have to displace students to install more cooking areas, and without additional housing, removing dorm rooms is impossible,”
said Currie. The handbook states that “Richardson and Little are air-conditioned, and further air-conditioning is planned.” College President Samuel R.
Spencer Jr. clarified the discrepancy. “We have no plans to air-condition any more dorms,” said Spencer.

As Director of the Physical Plant, Meetze is also in charge of planning future construction on campus. “I don’t try
to make policy in my position. Of course, I have my opinions and ideas, but I learned long ago not
to become involved in policy disputes. I’m not sure whether we lead in planning for the future or simply react
to student demands. Ideally, we look for ideas from everyone at the College and then anticipate what the needs will
be. Meetze is certain of his future responsibilities to upkeep dorms: “My task is to maintain the dorms and their
mechanical systems as they are.”They may not be perfect now, but we will not allow anything to go downhill,” he
concluded. “Very loud and yell a lot. It helps but it doesn’t relieve all the tension.” One junior’s approach was
different. “I go in my room, clean up, and listen to Jackson Browne and cry,” she said. A senior added,
“I like to throw things, especially rocks.” A former resident of Cannon basement mentioned that the shower room on that
hall can be turned into a steam bath. “We used to get four or five people and a bottle of
Johnny Walker and go in there and sweat and talk our problems out. It was great!” he observed. One sophomore
expressed his favorite relaxation as piano playing. “I like to find the most secluded piano possible. Just playing takes my
mind off everything,” he said. Another student observed that, “Any kind of weird, bizarre behavior relieves the tension.” Problems of
frustration are obviously not unique to Davidson College. The Davidson experience seems to be good for some and difficult for
others. “It’s a question of trying to balance the tensions,” explained a student. “You should enjoy your studies, but not
become obsessed with them. You just have to learn what you want and how to get what you want from
life.”

Statement of Student Rights questioned at Open End.
By CHUCK KENNON Managing Editor

Wednesday night’s Open End on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities, Article XII of the College Constitution, raised several
questions concerning the document. Ten students were present at the discussion on the eve of the student referendum on Draft
13 of Article XII. This document defines “some of the formal relationships between students and other groups within the college,”
according to its preamble. SGA President Bo Baskin introduced the subject by giving a brief history of the College Constitution
and Article XII issues. “We took twelve drafts to the faculty and they were shot down, primarily because they said
the documents defined an adversary relationship between the students and the faculty,” Baskin stated. He continued, “Last spring the faculty
said it would pass it in principle if the ‘contentious language’ was removed.” Over the summer the draft was rewritten,
and in September the Trustee Governance Subcommittee on Article XII met and accepted the new draft.

The discussion at the Open End was primarily centered around two topics: the extent to which the Article as it
stands was watered down, and the relative values of the election results and faculty interpretation of them. The sparse audience
was somewhat unresponsive and much of the discussion was conducted by Baskin, Marshall, and Davidsonian editor Matthew Covington. Covington expressed
a belief that the document was “watered down and hard to translate into reality.” “My concern is for the mechanics
of implementing the statement and the responsibility for implementation.” He stated that implementation is not provided for in the document
itself but in the College Registry, which is incomplete. Covington added that he felt terms such as “due process” and
“appropriate channels” fail to supply sufficient protection under all circumstances. Baskin pointed out that it should be kept in mind
that Article XII is a “Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities,” not a “Student Statement of Rights and Responsibilities.” Students
work with faculty and staff representatives in all phases of the governance operation.

Concerning the question of the fate of the document following the election, Baskin said that, “If it is voted down
and it went to the faculty again I doubt we could get anything better.” Another possibility was raised by Covington,
who said that the faculty could be shown that students objected to the weakening of the article and registered this
displeasure by rejecting the document. He proposed fostering student interest in this issue and if the statement were rejected more
interest be shown by the student body in the drawing up of a new and possibly firmer article.

900 ROOM SPECIAL
Shrimp Cocktail Only $1
Thursday, Oct. 21 — 8-11 pm
