the davidsonian

February 13, 1976

BABS PATTON shoots from the top of the key in Wednesday night’s game against North Carolina State. - Goodman

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

6oz. Rib Eye Steak
French Fries
Tossed Salad
$2.00

FRIDAY, FEB. 13 - THURSDAY, FEB. 19

Pfieffer, State drop Cats

lack of scholarships blamed

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson's women’s basketball team lost a pair of decisions to Pfieffer and North Carolina State during the week, dropping their season record to 4-9.

N.C. State, ranked number one in the state, completely dominated the smaller Lady Cats in rebounding and used strong shooting performances to win easily 91-62.

Donna Sherrill had an excellent night for Davidson as she connected 12 out of 19 shots from the floor and hit five of six free throws for 29 points.

She also led the team with seven rebounds, seeing over 37 minutes of playing time.

Assistant Coach Ken Schmaeder was very pleased with Sherrill’s effort and feels that she is the key to the team.

“Donna Sherrill is figuratively and literally the center of our team. She plays very hard and very solid basketball,” he noted.

No other Davidson players scored in double figures but Beth Tanner had eight points and Cindy Morrison five. Nora McNeill, Renee Soos, Nancy Matheny, Kat Morton, and Babs Patton all added four points apiece for Davidson.

N.C. State was led by Christy Earnhardt with 22 points and 14 rebounds and by Susan Yow who had 18 points and 15 rebounds.

State shot 49.3 percent against Davidson's 41 percent and out-rebounded the Lady Cats 64-29.

“We got totally out-rebounded and that really hurt us. They've got a very talented team but I don’t think they are the number one team in the state,” Schmaeder commented.

Earlier in the week Davidson lost to Pfeiffer for the second time this season. Pfeiffer used steady play and took advantage of a poor Davidson second half to win comfortably 67-56.

Schmaeder felt the girls played much better than in the first meeting of the two teams and was encouraged by the improvement the team showed.

“It was another one of those games where we played relatively well in the first half and not so well in the second half. They just slowly edged ahead and broke our backs with about ten minutes left in the game,” he said.

Both Pfeiffer and State are scholarship teams, the type of team that have handed the non-scholarship Davidson team a 4-9 record this season.

As a private school, Davidson is not required by Title IX to give scholarships and Schmaeder feels that this will make ever winning at Davidson difficult.

“We will not be able to compete with the better teams unless we also get scholarships and it’s that simple,” he said.

Track Cats end season 1-1

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

The Wildcat track team ended its regular indoor season 1-1 in a three-way meet in Lynchburg, Va., Saturday.

Davidson carried only an eleven-man team to the Wake Field House. The team defeated Campbell College 55-36, but was beaten by Lynchburg College 86-55 in the contest.

Field events proved to be the Cats’ undoing, as by the time the track events began the score was 48-12 in favor of Lynchburg.

Lynchburg swept the pole vault and took three places in the 35-lb. weight throw, the shot put, and the long jump.

Davidson’s only victories in these events were a first and a third place for Milt McCurdy in the shot and 35-lb. weight, and a second for John Stanfield in the high jump and a third for Carl McPhail in the triple jump.

Distance events saved the day for the Wildcats, who took firsts in all individual races above 440 yards. Mark Postove won the 600-yard run with a time of 1:18.7. Senior Fred Borch won the mile run at 4:26.8, with freshman Doug Horne a close second.

Horne took the 1000-yard run a little later, and teammate Ed Anderson won the 880 with a time of 2:08.5. Borch claimed another victory in the two mile run at 9:43.9, and John Barksdale followed in third place.

In shorter distances, Carl McPhail led the 60-yard high hurdle field at 8.0 seconds, and Steve Justus took second in the 440-yard run.

Davidson did not field teams for the 440 or mile relay, but a team of Horne, Justus, Anderson, and Borch finished far ahead of Lynchburg and Campbell in the 2-mile relay at a time of 8:40.

The track Cats’ next action will be the Southern Conference Indoor Meet at VMI February 20-21, and they will host Lynchburg in their first outdoor meet March 18.