April 16, 1976

Women take first
Runners grab fifth spot in Relays

By DAVE KELLE
Features Editor

Three school records and a number of strong performances boosted the Davidson trackmen to a fifth-place finish in the 17th
Annual Davidson Relays here Saturday, several places higher than expected.

In the women’s division of that same contest, the small Wildcat women’s team overcame a team from Lynchburg and individuals
from Duke and Lenoir-Rhyne to take first place.

The largest Relays yet, the meet was won by the team from Carson-Newman, who ended up way ahead of the
other 20 teams competing. Also, with one of the strongest fields yet, the meet saw twelve new Relays records set.

Leading the Davidson school records was Jarry Taylor’s hammer throw of 142’4½”, which also took first in that event. Carl
McPhail’s third-place time of :53.8 in the 440-yard intermediate hurdles was the second school record, eclipsing the old mark by
1.1 seconds. John Stanfield was the final Wildcat record-setter, his leap of 6’8” bettering his previous record of 6’6”; however,
even though he and David Ware from West Georgia both jumped 6’8” and no higher, Stanfield lost first place by
total missed jumps.

Other standout Davidson performances were John Lewis’ second place in the pole vault, Doug Horn’s second in the steeplechase, Coty
Pinckney’s fourth in the six-mile, and Jeff Diller’s fourth in the hammer.

Some of the more outstanding Relays records set were Appalachian’s Louis Blunt’s time of 29:09.7 in the six-mile, the Citadel’s
Brian Ruff’s javelin throw of 225’7”, and Western Carolina’s Eugene Collins’ 24’2” long jump. Surprises in the meet came when
Georgia State’s Robbie Short, Relays record holder in the high hurdles, false-started, and when High Point’s Pearlee Shaw edged ASU’s
Inky Clary in the intermediate hurdles.

In the women’s events, the Davidson team was led by four first-place performances: Nancy Brown’s 5:53.9 mile-run, Beth Tanner’s 14’7½”
long jump, Nora McNiell’s :13.1 100-yard dash, and the 880-yard relay victory of McNiell, Tanner, Brenda Boyle, and Becca Stimson.

Track coach Sterling Martin was very pleased with his team’s performance in the meet: “I had expected to finish anywhere
from seventh to tenth,” he said; “All the guys really came through.” Martin also expressed pleasure with the way the
meet turned out. “I really want to thank all of the students, faculty, and staff who helped us; without them,
the meet never would have gone so smoothly,” he said. Martin added that he also wanted to “thank the Wildcat
Club for their help in renting equipment.”

The meet was run with the aid of a photo-finish electronic timer rented from Duke University. According to Martin, “the
Accu-Track helped us considerably in taking times and judging finishes; although we did have a bit of trouble with it
at first.”

The Wildcats’ next meet will be this Thursday when they travel to Boone for a dual-meet with Appalachian State.
