April 23, 1976

the davidsonian

Finish year 20-6-1

Netters clinch regular season title

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s tennis team smashed and volleyed their way to the Southern Conference regular season title with convincing victories over East
Carolina and Richmond.

Davidson went into the matches with a 5-0 conference slate and needed a pair of victories to win the title
outright. The Wildcats left little to chance as they destroyed the hapless Pirates 9-0 and then crushed a potentially powerful
Richmond squad 6-3.

Entering the East Carolina match with nine straight decisions, the Wildcats took little time in dispatching the Pirates.

Chip Bondurant defeated Tom Durfee 6-1, 6-0 in the number one singles match and Steve Holman shut out Bob Neff
6-0, 6-0 in the fourth singles.

Bondurant and Stewart Boswell lost the only set of the day for Davidson but rallied to win the number one
doubles match 6-4, 5-7, 6-1.

In the rest of the singles competition, Mike Barnhill and John Mitchell both routed their opponents 6-3, 6-1 while Brian
Cooper and John Trout took the numbers five and six matches 6-1, 6-1 and 6-2, 6-2 respectively.

Upcoming sports

24 The Citadel 1:00
26 at The Citadel 7:30

Rugby

25 at Wofford 2:00

Women’s Tennis

23, 24 State Tournament at UNC-CH 2:00
26 Salem 2:00
29 at Appalachian 2:00

Women’s J.V. Tennis

26 at Presbyterian 2:00

at Charlotte Latin

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
SPAGHETTI
BEERS
CHOICE WINES
315-1449
185 W. MOREHEAD ST.

Head coach Jeff Frank was pleased that his squad avoided a letdown after edging powerful Appalachian State 5-4 on Wednesday.

“The Furman Coach had warned me that they were unorthodox but that they could be tough so we took extra
precautions against regarding them lightly,” Frank explained.

“Our kids all got ahead of them quickly and just never let their opponents get started.”

Davidson’s decisive victory over East Carolina set the stage for Saturday’s climactic match with Richmond.

After losing the first and second singles competition, the Wildcats showed good depth by sweeping the third through sixth matches.
Mitchell’s pivotal 7-5, 7-5 victory over Gary Stern provided Davidson with a 4-2 advantage going into the doubles instead of
a 3-3 deadlock.

Andy White and Barnhill clinched the Wildcats' first tennis title since 1973 with a victory in the second doubles match.
Holman and Steve Johnson wrapped up the scoring with a win in the number three doubles to remain undefeated in
conference play.

“We expected extremely tough matches in the first two singles and first doubles and that’s exactly what happened. It’s almost
as if they had three points before the match started,” noted Frank.

Davidson’s eleven match winning streak came to an abrupt halt on Monday when they dropped a 9-0 decision to South
Carolina. The match was closer than the score indicates as many of the Wildcats fell just short of victory.

UNCC was the last match of the year and Coach Frank used his entire squad in a 9-0 breather. The
match was played on hard courts in preparation for the Southern Conference tournament to be held in Richmond next week.

Davidson finished the year with a 20-6-1 record and will now be practicing on hard courts for a week before
leaving for Richmond.

Mom’s Special Day!

Remember your mom with a Hallmark card and gift.

The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

BRIAN COOPER demonstrates the style it takes to reach a 20-6-1 season record in a solid return.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL
Ice Cold Watermelon
35¢ a Slice

Tuesday Lunch and Dinner
Richards and Bailey Houses

ALSO
10” Coke
Only 10¢!

All Day Tuesday - Snack Bar
