March 26, 1976

The Davidsonian

Straw Vote Results

Davidson College students, faculty, and staff participated in a mock primary Friday, March 19.

DEMOCRAT
Student | Faculty | Town Resident
Carter 151 45.1 percent | 10 31.3 percent | 7 46.7 percent
Harris 19 5.7 | 7 21.9 | 1 6.7
Jackson 16 4.8 | 0 0 | 0 0
Udall 108 32.1 | 12 37.5 | 4 26.7
Wallace 18 5.4 | 1 3.1 | 0 0
No P. 7 2.1 | 1 3.1 | 3 20.3

REPUBLICAN
Ford 129 78.7 | 3 60 | 5 83
Reagan 22 13.4 | 0 0 | 1 17
No P. 4 2.4 | 1 20 | 0 0

National faces funding gap
[Continued from page 1]

However, there was nothing that this group of people could do. Jackson mentioned that he had only one offer for
support of the National and that it had come from a member of the Board of Visitors who did not
know that the National was going to end. Like Spencer, Jackson was unable to offer any solutions to the problem
of saving the National. In fact, Jackson questioned whether a problem really exists. He suggested that the small response from
SGA officers might be indicative that the show will not really be missed. "It seems as though a new fieldhouse
is a larger priority than a new art facility is. And who's to say that it shouldn’t be?" said Jackson.

The Student Government Association Spring elections will be held this coming Tuesday, March 30, according to SGA Elections Council Chairman
George Reedy. Filing for the five offices to be elected closed this past Tuesday. The offices are: Campus and Religious
Life Council, Defense Advisor, Review Board, Student Conduct Council, and Student Solicitor. However, only one person - CHARLIE STRANGE, Bob
Hus- each filed for Defense Advisor and for Student Solicitor.

The Campus and Religious Life Council was set up under the college constitution. The council advises the college president on
matters suggested by the council’s title. Three people filed for the council. Students will pick two candidates from the field
of Phil Caine, Benita Franklin, and Bob Morrison.

The Review Board is a board set up under the Code of Responsibility. Any student convicted of an honor violation
by the dean of students or by the hearing committee may appeal the conviction to the Review Board.

The Student Conduct Council is another council which deals with the Code of Responsibility. Essentially, the council is the legislative
body that proposes changes in the code.

Small grease fire smokes out Delts
By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

A small fire occurred last Friday when a pot of grease blazed up at the Phi Delta Theta house on
Patterson Court. According to house member Jeff Neikirk, the fire started when a large pot of cooking oil was accidentally
left on "high." At first, the grease just smoked, but it went unnoticed for some time as the smoke remained
only in the kitchen. When the smoke was detected, Neikirk and others made their way into the kitchen where they
were driven out because of the thick smoke. Neikirk wrapped his face, grabbed the pot with a wet cloth, and
started outside, at which point the grease burst into flames. Neikirk managed to get the pot outside where a fireman
met him and extinguished the blaze. "I want to commend the Davidson Fire Department," said Neikirk. "After Jay (Kopel) called
them, they were here in under five minutes." No damage was reported in the house.

Forty-niners grab Charlotte publicity
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

The University of North Carolina at Charlotte has, as they say, captured the hearts, imaginations, and just possibly the pocketbooks
of Charlotte. The largest city...In the Carolinas, Davidson College has long been a stronghold of fans, but evidence suggests that
is no longer true. In the Charlotte Observer on Monday, there was a souvenir pullout section dealing with the success
of the UNCC basketball team in the National Invitational Tournament. UNCC finished second. This section was heavily advertised. One ad
indicated what might be a widespread feeling in Charlotte: "UNCC, you're on the ball...you’ve scored with us! The 49ers are
first in the hearts of Charlotteans, and we salute you for your accomplishment." A feature box in the section offered
instructions on "How To Donate To UNCC." WBT-TV, a large Charlotte television station, presented a special about UNCC during prime
time Tuesday, pre-empting a regular network show. Needless to say, Davidson College received no mention.

Larry Tarleton, Executive Sports Editor of the Charlotte Observer and the person responsible for the Observer Souvenir section, suggested that
Charlotte fans have indeed switched support from Davidson to UNCC. "The big thing is that UNCC is a winner right
now and Davidson is not. The Charlotte audience has no loyalties for a losing team," said Tarleton. "Ten years ago,
when Davidson was winning, Charlotte was with Davidson. Right now, UNCC is the town favorite because they are winners. People
are not going out to see a 5-21 team," he said. Tarleton admitted that he was a false authority on
the subject of Charlotte allegiance but added that neither the 49ers nor the Wildcats could fill the coliseum during the
past basketball season. He believes this situation has changed. "I expect if UNCC played there now, they would sell the
place out," he said.

Senate declares war on apathy, airs informative first newsletter
By ED REES
Staff Writer

In action Tuesday night designed to combat what it views as the apathy that currently grips Davidson students, the Senate
Communications Committee aired its first SGA Newsletter for approval. The Newsletter, to be published bi-weekly, is intended to inform students
of present issues and corresponding Senate activities and to aid persons seeking chances for involvement.

In a move concurrent with the Newsletter’s purpose, the Senators will be canvassing hall-to-hall within the next few weeks for
opinions and constructive criticisms. The Senate hopes these two measures will increase both the Senate’s effectiveness as a representative body
and student participation on campus.

Completing other business, the Senate approved four persons to standing Faculty committees. Van Williamson and W. Gene Broadhead were placed
on the Faculty Extended Studies Committee, while Carter Todd and Zack Merle filled slots on the Faculty Committee on Athletics
and Physical Education. Five others were appointed to special Advisory Councils provided for in the College Constitution. Cindy Marrison, Sam
Noland, and Kevin McConnell were posted on the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics. Babette Kissam and Gil Cuthbertson were seated
on the Council dealing with Admissions and Financial Aid.

1976 FALL TERM
Saturday, September 4 - Orientation begins
Wednesday, September 8 - Fall term begins
Tuesday, November 16 - Fall term classes end
Wednesday, November 17 - Fall term examinations begin
Saturday, November 20 - Fall term examinations end

1976-77 WINTER TERM
Monday, November 29 - Winter term begins
Friday, December 17 - Christmas recess begins
Monday, January 3 - Winter term resumes
Friday, February 18 - Winter term classes end
Monday, February 21 - Winter term examinations begin
Thursday, February 24 - Winter term examinations end

1977 SPRING TERM
Monday, March 7 - Spring term begins
Friday, May 13 - Spring term classes end
Saturday, May 14 - Spring term examinations begin
Wednesday, May 18 - Spring term examinations end
Sunday, May 22 - Commencement
