March 12, 1976

the davidsonian

Thi cagers seize A-league, IMAC basketball “raggy”

By the THREE FAIRIES

Quoth Mun Dane, head-honcho-theory maker: “This is my theory, which is mine. Ahem! IMAC basketball is somewhat raggy in the
beginning, very raggy in the middle and outrageously raggy at the end.” Mun Dane has proven once more his sagacity
in such matters of prognostication.

Two of IMAC’s premiere tampon teams, the I Felta Thi’s, led by Chief Ragger Mike Russ, and the Kerwood Derbies,
captained by three-time all-American Jeff Heslop, clashed in the friendly confines of Johnston Gym for the A-league title.

To reach the finals against the unbeaten Thi’s, the Derbies emerged from the losers’ bracket by defeating the stylish SAE’s,
the Kathryn Bridges-led Phi Phenomenon, and out of de Ghetto, onto de court, Maybe Tomorrow.

In Game One, the Derbies were not receiving the usual help from Ragman Russ when Mark “Eddie Haskell” Firth came
through with a clutch technical, boosting the Derbies to a 30-24 halftime lead.

Ken Schmader’s attempt at a flying sit-spin over Cliff Knechtle’s back received only a 5.2 from the Russian judge and
Ken was eliminated from the competition early in the second half.

Behind assist-men Knechtle and Al Duncan, the Derbies coasted to a 67-58 victory. However, in Game Two, after hours of
consultation with Dean Smith and Phil Ford, which forced postponement of the game for four days, the Thi’s reverted to
everybody’s favorite offense, the four corners, and took the title by 47-39.

The Thi’s were spurred by Mitch Kupchak look-alike, Kirk Combe’s 19 points. Jim Stephenson was the unanimous choice for MVP,
silencing the critics who left him off the regular season all-league team.

The B-league finals featured a return to the long-lost days of fraternitydom, pitting perverse PIKA #1 against the well-groomed gentlemen
of SAE #2.

The SAE’s, coming from the loser’s bracket, were a team of A-league caliber had they been willing to break a
sweat and stop worrying with their hair.

In Game One, behind smiling Susan Baynard’s cries of “Go EEEEEE’s!” and Randy Hunter’s ten big ones (all he’s got),
the fashionable ones romped to a 47-36 victory. Several Queenies were attracted by the prospect of the climactic rubber game
of the match.

Alas, the ladies were denied satisfaction, as the PIKA’s penetrated the SAE’s flimsy defenses for the title, winning 46-40.

At a post-game press conference, nurd Rob Canning, without foundation, credited the PIKA victory to the coaching abilities of Ragman
“Bobby Knight” Russ.

Leading PIKA scorer Bill Tucker sampled the thrills of victory and had little comment. The SAE’s may have lost the
game, but gee, Bones, “They sure have great tans!”

This week’s so-ironic-it-hurts highlight was undoubtedly the Davidson Alumni Association (Coaching Division) Reunion at the ACC tournament. We were so
happy when Terry took his pregnant wife to Charlottesville. Also, look for Williams College to send their head coach to
the ACC coaching ranks next year.

We fully expect a multitude of letters in protest of the lack of coverage of the girls’ IMAC tournament. To
this we can only say “Tough nookies, ugh, we mean tough cookies.” And in conclusion, this week’s contest is, “who
is David Kirkman?” Send all suggestions to Box 1296, Davidson, North Carolina. The first person to identify this legendary personality
will win an all-expense-paid weekend for two to Elmhurst, Illinois.

By PETE WEST Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team began their season by competing in a tournament held at Raintree Golf Club in Charlotte under
Coach Tom Scott.

A strong UNC team won the tournament, while Davidson finished eighth out of a field of 16 teams.

Four of Davidson’s competing golfers were freshmen, which, according to Scott, is a true representation of the possibilities that exist
for the future Davidson teams.

Low man for the team was Sollie Foy, a freshman, with two 76’s, giving him a total for the tournament
of 152. Jim Heard, also a freshman, scored a total of 155, with a 73 and an 82, placing second
for the team.

George Wilson, a senior, scored 163, while Joe Davis and Mike Kennedy both scored 172. Randy Hunter had a score
of 178.

“With four freshmen we have a good future ahead of us, but for this season we’re going to get better
and try to do as well as we can,” said Scott. “I look forward to great improvement.”

The remainder of the golf team’s season consists of a match with Catawba, the Furman Invitational, and matches with Hampden-Sydney,
Appalachian State, Lander, and the Southern Conference Tournament.

“We will add a seventh and eighth man for the remainder of the season, Gilbert Cuthbertson and Mike Lanio,” said
Scott. “We’re just anxious to watch the improvement and win the rest of our matches.”

Fly a kite!

We Have All kinds

FANTAZMA
Sky Raper
Sky Spy
Fire Bird
Air Scoop
Sky Dart

THE VILLAGE STORE

Copr. 1950, 1958 United Feature Syndicate, Inc.
