Vol. LXV, No. TWENTY-THREE

Smith seeks new assistant, Goodhouse hopes for pro

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Union Director C. Shaw Smith should announce the appointment of a new Union Assistant Director before the end of this
school year. Smith will recommend candidates for the post to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. The position becomes vacant
as of July 1.

Smith outlined the measures taken to secure a new assistant director. “First, we’ve kept our ears open for anybody interested
-- local or otherwise,” said Smith. “We have had some excellent candidates call about the position, many with varying degrees
of experience,” he continued.

Smith said that, in addition to talking to people who inquire about the vacancy, an active search for an assistant
director is being conducted. “We have actively interviewed some candidates at conferences -- the Association of College Unions-International (A.C.U.-I.) conference
in Kansas City. There has been some searching among alumni who might be possibilities, whether they are in union programming
or other kinds of jobs which give a base of qualifications in filling this position, which is one involving an
understanding and appreciation of human communication,” said Smith.

At various times in the past, the assistant directorship has been filled both by Davidson graduates and professional union programmers.
Smith said he did not know which type of individual would be hired to fill the present vacancy. “The fact
that we have used many Davidson graduates in the past means that there has been some success with it --
this is a possibility,” he said. “We do see a larger programming opportunity than perhaps we have ever had and
we also see a wonderful response on the part of students and faculty to enlarge programming.

“We're looking hard at professionals in the field and anybody else who’s qualified,” said Smith.

Union President Karl E. Goodhouse expressed a definite preference for a professional union programmer in the assistant director’s position. “I
strongly believe that we must have a professional from outside Davidson in that position,” he said. Goodhouse indicated that in
the past the lack of a strong, centrally-located union had not mandated a professional.

[see GOODHOUSE, page 2]

the davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
April 16, 1976.

C. SHAW SMITH: looking for somebody to help out around the union. -Irv Wilson

Study results correlated, show satisfied students

By MATTHEW COVINGTON

A study of the course evaluation forms circulated after fall term this year shows that Davidson students are satisfied with
the way in which they are being taught. The returned forms have been correlated by computer and show that Davidson
students generally are satisfied with their professors. The point of dissatisfaction seems to be that professors are slow to return
work to students.

1583 responses were received and one third of the courses offered fall term were evaluated. The questionnaire consisted of 14
questions, each asking a question and requesting that the student answer by circling one of six numbers. This meant that
the student could rank the effectiveness of his teacher, the work involved in the course, and the course itself on
a one-to-six scale, one indicating a favorable response, six a negative.

When asked how effective the professors were in lectures, students generally rated their teachers favorably. The largest number of students
gave their professors a two on a scale where one means “very effective.” Students overwhelmingly rated the quality of class
discussions as “very effective.” Assignments were overwhelmingly rated as worthwhile for class understanding. Tests were seen as reflecting the important
aspects of the course by most students.but responses were spread between “yes” and “no.” The largest number of students said
they spent “eight to nine hours a week” on assignments for each course. There was a nearly perfect curve of
answers to this question, however, with as many students spending “zero to four hours a week” as “14 plus.” Freshmen
studied more than any other class, and seniors least. Professors were described as “open-minded,” “flexible,” “organized,” “concerned,” “enthusiastic,” “accessible,” “personable,”
and “trusting.” Students rated professors evenly between being “challenging” and “discouraging” with most responses tending toward “challenging.” Most students were
taking the courses they responded to in order to fulfill an area requirement. Most students “strongly recommend” the courses they
took.

Faculty to examine student rights
By BILL BARNES
News Editor

The Trustees of Davidson College referred the proposed Article Twelve of the College Constitution to the Faculty of the College
for evaluation at their February meeting. The faculty has voted to form a committee for the purpose of acquiring a
“representative faculty opinion,” according to Professor of German Hansford M. Epes, Jr. The faculty committee is chaired by Professor of
English J. Gill Holland, and includes Professor of Math R. Bruce Jackson, Professor of Sociology Norman B. Koller, Professor of
English Charles E. Lloyd, and Professor of Religion Daniel D. Rhodes.

Holland indicated that he felt privately that the document was “unclear and some of the spirit of the document smacks
too much of adversary legislation.” “It sounds like it’s becoming the students versus the rest of the college,” said Holland,
“when we should all be going in the same direction.” Holland intends to rework the document somewhat and present it
to the faculty committee as an alternate proposal. He added that his reworking of the document is being undertaken on
his own and that it would definitely not represent an effort by the full faculty committee. “A lot of it
is just confusing,” said Holland. “I’d like to see exactly what (others) have in mind. As it stands it’s not
too clear.” Holland intends to consult SGA President Bo Baskin about the document.

The original statement of rights appeared as a portion of the SGA By-laws by the Trustees of the College, on
the grounds that such an encompassing legislation belonged in the College Constitution. The issue was referred to the College Governance
Committee, which created a subcommittee made up of three students, two faculty members, and two members of the administration. This
committee “started working from the National Statement of Student Rights endorsed by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), the
National Students Association (NSA), and the Association of American Colleges (AAC),” said Epes. The committee proposed a draft which was
rejected by the Governance Committee in the Spring of 1975. A new draft was reported out in November of 1976,
and this document is the one presently under consideration.

Chairman of the Governance Subcommittee on the Statement of Rights John W. Munce feels that the purpose of the present
faculty subcommittee is “to save the faculty a tedious debate. The committee is supposed to paste up and cut up
faculty opinion into a cohesive report that the faculty can then vote on.” Munce does not view the purpose of
the faculty committee as including changing the document. “Unless they can show the subcommittee that there are overwhelming reasons to
change, there will be no further work on the document,” he said. “We’re going to ask for a vote on
the original document submitted to the faculty by the governance committee. That’s what we asked for, that’s what we’re waiting
for.” Munce indicated that it was his understanding that the document would be submitted to the students for approval by
referendum at the end of this month.
