—12 The Davidsonian February 13, 1976

Open letter to students ... Media rights contradict model

[Continued from page 4]

the respective publications. No students, I think, favor the unbridled license on the part of student editors to publish libelous, pornographic, or undocumented information. However, within the parameters of responsible journalism, it is imperative that the duly selected student editors have the final authority over the editorial policy and content of the publications. Is this too much to ask?

The Model Bill of Students’ Rights at Colleges and Universities in North Carolina addresses this issue straightforwardly. It says (Section 25) that “The student media shall be free of censorship. The editors and/or managers of the student media shall not be subject to disciplinary action by the institution because of student, faculty, administration, alumni, or community disapproval of editorial policy or content.” Although Davidson has never adopted this statement, can it be that we are a complete 180 degrees away from the consensus reached by the framers of the Model Bill of Rights? I shudder to think that we could be so far off the mark.

Compromise has been a large part of the drafting of Davidson’s Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities. To anyone who cares to compare Draft #1 with the present draft, this is obvious. As one who participated significantly in the first ten months of this evolution, I believe that the students have given in significantly, much more so than have the other constituent groups. I also believe that the compromising on the part of students has reached its ethical limit. To submit further is not to compromise—it is to capitulate. I do not believe in recognizing student rights which are restricted by abundant qualifiers. For, in my mind, qualified rights cease to be rights. Such submission grates on my personal ethics.

In June, 1971, the Carnegie Commission on Higher Education issued a report on the rights and responsibilities of college students. Among other findings, the report states the following: All members of the campus have other responsibilities and rights based upon the nature of the educational process and the requirements of the search for truth and its free presentation... Institutional censorship and individual or group intolerance of the opinions of others are inconsistent with this freedom.

I, too, believe that such limitations are inconsistent with the concept of higher education, and especially with the ideals surrounding “the quest for truth” which Davidson College so strongly espouses. The implications of the adoption of such qualified statements of rights and responsibilities are not insignificant. If the Davidson studentry does not reject the severely limiting proposals which are now being considered, their acceptance will spell the emasculation of student rights for a long time to come. Approval of the document with such language is tantamount to relinquishing the basis of student rights altogether.

I have said earlier that the adoption of a statement of student rights and responsibilities agreed to by all constituent groups of the college is of primary importance. It is crucial to reach understandings on these areas of fundamental significance. However, I also assert that I do not believe in qualifying rights to the point that they cease to be rights. Some can accept this approach; I cannot. I strongly believe in the desirability of a Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities.and I have expended much energy toward that end. However, before I could accept a statement in which students are accorded only the facade of rights, I would rather see the adoption of no statement at all. Perhaps the College is unwilling to accept statements such as I have forwarded; I, similarly, find myself unable to accept theirs. My overriding principles rule me and I do not plan to change. When it becomes evident that real rights are not to be accorded, the only alternative is to reject the facade and let the exercise of adopting a written statement die of natural causes. If you are still with me through this discourse and if you concur with the premises I maintain, then confront John Munce, Bo Baskin, and Peyton Marshall and be counted as the fate of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities is decided. In the words of a time-worn cliché which never held more truth, “Stick up for your rights.” If you fail to do so, you can blame no one but yourselves.

Blain Butner ’75
Washington, D.C.
Friday, February 13, 1976

Catesby Jones
Saturday, February 14, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
2 pm Basketball: William and Mary
7:30 pm Wrestling: Hampden-Sydney
TBA Coffeehouse: Kathy Black and Catesby Jones

Sunday, February 15, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
8 pm Interorganizational Forum Meeting
9 pm Two Plays by William Butler Yeats

Monday, February 16, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
All Day Symposium on “Death and Dying”
7:30 pm Panel Discussion: “Death and Dying, Three Perspectives”

Tuesday, February 17, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
12 pm Share-It-With-Your-Brother Meal
4 pm Military History Documentary Film Series
7 pm Worship Service
7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Safety Course

Wednesday, February 18, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
3:30 pm Swimming: Emory
7:30 pm Wrestling: Washington and Lee
8 pm Pop Film: Monty Python’s “And Now for Something Completely Different”
TBA Coffeehouse: Kathy Black and Hampden-Sydney, Va.

Thursday, February 19, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
All Day Swimming: Southern Conference Tournament, Richmond, Virginia
10 am Coffee and Cokes
10:50 am Humanities 122 Film: “Voyage to Enchanted Isles”
7 pm Psychology Club Meeting
7 pm Wrestling: College of Charleston

Friday, February 20, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
All Day Swimming: Southern Conference Tournament, Richmond, Virginia
10 am Interorganizational Forum Meeting
5:55 pm Women’s Basketball: Wake Forest, Winston-Salem, N.C.
8 pm Basketball: Wake Forest, Winston-Salem, N.C.