| October 1, 1976

The Davidsonian play with the feeling and emphasis of a single jazz soloist. In addition, Henderson uses the old West African pattern of call-and-response, setting off one section against another—rolling saxes versus crisp brass. Finally, Vol. II, Side Two, contains the most notable song of the concert, Sing, Sing, Sing. Written in a minor key and featuring Gene Krupa on drums, it is simply the best recording of the best song in Goodman’s books. The crowd applauds loudly as they recognize the familiar “jungle drum” tom-tom-tomming of Krupa, and the song, twelve minutes in its entirety, gets underway. Another burst of applause comes at the point where the 78 rpm commercial recording would have ended, but Krupa keeps on drumming and the band continues.

The Fletcher Henderson song, Christopher Columbus, appears, but the melody is hardly recognizable and in a minor key. Babe Russin takes a solo on tenor sax, as the piano and trumpets back him up with some choice background work. Harry James plays the next solo, his best during the concert. Throughout, he shows tremendously nimble fingering and demonstrates his excellent range; his normally syrupy, oppressive vibrato is pleasingly toned down. Next is Goodman, and his solo demonstrates the full range of his talents; clearly, he is the best jazz clarinetist ever. After the applause dies down, Krupa cuts way down on dynamics and Jess Stacey commences with some of the most original piano playing of the evening. Haunting and beautiful in a minor key, it is a wonderful contrast to the previous wide-open, “killer diller” solos. Then comes the finale, with Krupa opening up, the trumpets screaming, and Goodman, barely audible, high above the entire band.

Historically, the Benny Goodman Carnegie Hall Jazz Concert provides a valuable insight into the development of the jazz idiom in the late 1930s, when the spontaneity and excitement of a live performance were captured on records all too infrequently. Altogether, the concert ranks among the best jazz works ever recorded and is a must for the library of any serious jazz buff, however far removed his tastes may be from “that refined Dixieland which is Swing.”

She is open every day from 11 am until 9 pm, except on Saturdays and Sundays when she opens at 12:30 pm and 3:30 pm, respectively. The other “homemade” emporium is in Concord and is called the Cabarrus Creamery. The Creamery’s set-up is a bit more commercial than Spoon’s, but the ice cream, though not full of Mrs. Spoon’s T.L.C., is still made in the back and is still quite good. These folks have about 25 flavors of ice cream to offer, plus a wide assortment of banana splits, huge sundaes, and the like. Their specialty, however, in most folks’ opinions, is their peanut butter milkshake, a concoction which sounds revolting at first but which is, in this reporter’s opinion, magnifique. Not too sweet, the shake has atouch of salt which, along with the peanut bits (they use crunchy peanut butter), makes for a truly unique dessert experience. Now for the hard part—getting there. First, go to Concord on NC 78; turn left on the four-lane road where 73 dead-ends, cross the bridge and take the first right by a car lot. Drive for about a mile and a half, past Hardee’s and the neon, past the graveyard, and on your right across from Troutman’s BBQ will be the Creamery, a rather ’40s-looking green building most likely with a number of cars out front. Hours are 8 am to 9 pm on weekdays and 8 am to 10 pm Saturdays and Sundays.

In Charlotte, in Eastland Mall, is an establishment which, if you’ve ever visited, you either love or hate: it’s called Farrell’s, and it specializes in atmosphere (“Fun”, “a good time”, etc.) and, to a lesser degree, ice cream. Ice cream dressed up, ice cream on cake, great, heaping mounds of several flavors of ice cream in tubs are on the menu, as well as burgers and the like. The ice cream is good but expensive, and the Farrell’s visit should really be reserved for a hall get-together or the like rather than for hard-core ice cream eating. It’s a lot of fun if you’re in the mood, though, and it’s worth a visit if you’re in Charlotte.

Also in Charlotte are four Baskin-Robbins, four Mayberry’s, a Dipper Dan, two Howard Johnson’s, et al., scattered about here and there. If you’re desperate there is also a Mayberry’s on I-77 in a mall just this side of Statesville. If you’re in your dorm and without long-ride transportation, the 7-11 has Sealtest and Breyer’s in half-gallons, and if you’re really desperate, Dairy Queen and Bantam Chef have that soft-serve substitute I mentioned earlier. By all means, though, save that stuff for hard times, ’cause you can sure do a lot better if you're willing.

Friday, October 1, 1976
10 am Dance Class
10 am Open End with Raymond Johnson
2 pm Chess Club
8 pm Performance: Raymond Johnson

Saturday, October 2, 1976
11 am Cross Country: St. Andrews
1:30 pm Master Class: Raymond Johnson
2 pm Soccer: William and Mary
2 pm Rugby: Columbia
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: “Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz”

Sunday, October 3, 1976
2 pm Soccer: VMI
5 pm Life/Work Planning
6:30 pm DCF

Monday, October 4, 1976
NC PIRG Women’s Issues 7 pm
10 pm

Tuesday, October 5, 1976
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer
12:30 pm CROP Meal
7 pm Worship Service

Wednesday, October 6, 1976
10 am Lakeside Press Exhibition
4 pm Honors Center Film: “The Huddled Masses”
8 pm Fine Film: “Death in Venice”

Thursday, October 7, 1976
10 am Coffee and Cokes
3 pm Women’s Field Hockey: Pfeiffer
4 pm Council on Campus and Religious Life
10 pm Disco Bandwagon - Irv Wilson

Banquet Hall
Conversation Pit
Conference Room
Love Auditorium
Davidson
Love Auditorium
Williamsburg, Va.
Love
Lexington, Va.
Morrison Room
TV Lounge
Conference Room
306 Woodland St.
Conversation Pit
Banquet Hall
DCPC
Fine Arts Bldg.
Honors Center
Love Auditorium
Banquet Hall
Davidson
Conference Room
900 Room

Cheese & Wine
Gifts
Smith Circle, Cornelius
892-7800