April 2, 1976

the davidsonian

5

Letters to the Editor

Outside classroom termed frivolous

To the Editor:

I overheard a conversation between two janitors that pushed me to do a little thinking on my own. Went like this: “What’re they spendin’ money on shit like this outdoor classroom when they should be worrying 'bout things like housing?”

Good question, damn good question.

He was referring to housing in town, not here at school. Somehow he had the notion that fulfilling basic human needs held a higher precedence than a cosmetic outdoor classroom. Somehow he seems to make sense.

We already have a little memorial park tucked away on campus (and I bet half the faculty and students don’t have the slightest idea where it is) and lawns aplenty; why the need for a classroom, a superfluous classroom outdoors? The very idea of a “formal” classroom outdoors is repulsive to me. Maybe the Senior Class Gift Committee is hoping for structured spontaneity. The majority of the campus knows how to sit on their cans and a few tables and chairs wouldn’t change things much. Sure it would be nice, if it were used. An electron microscope, an expanded art gallery, a placement service; they’d be nice, too, and they might even be used.

I’m not saying that any of these things are possible with a $2,500 Senior class gift, but it seems like something a little less frivolous would be possible. But then of course you can’t put a plaque on an open lawn or a housing program...

Kevin Shelly ’77
Davidson College

Truck ditching childish

To the Editor:

“Jesus, lookit that thing go!”

“Yea, we really gave her a run!”

So what? So what if a bunch of drunken pledges can push a milk truck into a ditch. What does it prove? That they’re all Charles Atlas? That they have the intelligence of Jethro of “The Beverly Hillbillies”? That they “wanna’ play truck”?

I suppose that if we all thought along the same lines, we could solve all of our problems. We could simply all get drunk, take over a missile complex, and attack the Soviet Union. Yep...blew the hell outta’ ‘em! Not that the Russians are our problem--but the act would satisfy our child-like egos.

Maybe that’s what it amounts to--how much of the child-like desire for destruction we allow out into the open. I don’t know, but one thing is clear: Mickey Mouse never got drunk to my knowledge, and the Lone Ranger never hit anyone without some sort of reason. But, then again, I suppose if you hate yellow trucks and you think cows are the spite of life, you have to do something about it. How else could you wake up refreshed and satisfied with a deed well done?

Lee Grogan, ‘77
Davidson College

Decimals & dates

To the Editor:

How can an institution emphasize the importance of grades, more than by computing the GPA to four decimal places?

Since they are so important, the administration of such an institution shouldn’t squabble over a mere one day for reading before exams. It might even mean the difference between 3.7942 and 3.7946.

Victor M. McMillan, '77
Davidson College

Aw man, I'll kill ya...
American youth is dead.

Peace

Hippies... Yippies... Freaks
Dylan...

Grass... Love

But I've found something new...

Where did it all go?

War...
Panthers... Pollution... Ho Chi Minh

Beach Boys, Booze, Grease!
Fraternities, Phone Booths, Goldfish!

Ronald Reagan, Sock Hops, Pre-Med!

The Draft... Acid... Woodstock
Hard Rock... SDS... Free schools

Nixon... all of it gone...

I feel empty inside.

I've been reborn.

('D LIKE TO TAKE A COURSE OUTSIDE
MY MAJOR, JUST TO LEARN SOMETHING,
NOT A COURSE WHERE ALL THE
MAJORS ARE FIGHTING IT
OUT FOR GRADES, AND
NOT A CRIP COURSE
YOU TAKE FOR AN
EASY TERM AND
REA REQUIREMENTS.)

WHY DIDN'T YOU
TELL ME EARLIER
THAT YOU WANTED
TO TRANSFER?

To the Editor:

I would appreciate if you would remove such as is found in the March 19 issue of the Davidsonian. I am referring, of course, to the disgusting article of the IMAC softball season. The Davidsonian is no place for such demented wit. Those who enjoy reading this kind of material can find plenty of it in the men’s room in the basement of the library. I hope in the future the editor would consider the common decency of his readers and not allow such offensive material to be printed.

William F. Umhau '79
Davidson College

To the Editor:

Millions of people suffer from hunger and malnutrition (460 million, according to CROP). But even if there was only one, I would believe that I had an obligation to do whatever I could to help that one person. If you do not agree, read another article, the rest of this one does not apply to you.

There are a great many worthy causes asking for money today. But it seems to me that if a person is not assured the right to enough of the proper food necessary for his/her survival, there is no point worrying about contracting cancer, getting an education, lobbying for gun control, etc.

I honestly cannot imagine what it is like to be really hungry or malnourished. I suspect we are all lucky enough to be able to make that claim. But for the millions that are not, we can help. Someone will soon be asking you to pledge some money to help fight hunger. Ten to twelve of us will be fasting April 8, which is World Food Day. If you care, please support us.

Bob Mooty, '76
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.