April 16, 1976

Lady netters add four quick wins

By MARY AMOS
Staff Writer

In tennis action, the girls’ Varsity Tennis team added four straight wins to their record last week by defeating Carolina, Salem, Pfeiffer, and USC.

The girls’ team began their winning streak by defeating UNC-Chapel Hill 6-3 Tuesday. Davidson collected four victories in the singles matches.

Number one player, Kirk Cameron, defeated her opponent 6-4, 7-6. Becca Stimson lost her first set 4-6, yet rallied to take the second set 7-6, and the third 6-4.

Dea Booth, the number three seed, and Andrea Murphy, playing number six, also won their matches.

In the doubles, Murphy and Stimson won their number one doubles match; as did the number two team of Booth and Sue McAvoy.

Coach Pat Drake is very pleased with the performance of the team. “They were somewhat worried about Chapel Hill, but once the match began, the team gained confidence, and proved they could beat a well-reputed team,” she said.

The team traveled to Salem Thursday and ran over the opposing team 9-0.

The team experienced little difficulty against Pfeiffer College Friday, downing the girls 8-1. Davidson won all the singles matches, although there were several games which were carried to three sets.

Nancy Brown, number four seed, won her first set 6-4, lost her second 3-6, yet had a strong comeback in the third set to win 6-0.

Stimson, number two player, remained undefeated in singles action this year as she whipped her opponent 6-4, 6-0. Number four player, McAvoy, won her first set 6-3, and after a tiebreaker, took the second set 7-6. Brown, playing number five, and Murphy, number six, also contributed singles wins.

Davidson’s only win in doubles action came from the number one team of Cameron and Stimson.

"The girls are gaining momentum with each match. I just hope they can keep themselves sharp for the State tournament next week in Chapel Hill,” said Drake in summing up the week’s win.

The team will meet Wake Forest on April 19, and will travel to Chapel Hill for the State Tournament April 22 and last through April 24.

Record falls to 8-17

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Baseball team dropped two of three games last week to Wake Forest and William and Mary. Their overall record is now 8-17.

Lack of consistency has plagued the Cats throughout the season, and Coach Palmer Muench cites this as part of the reason for losses to Wake Forest and William and Mary.

The Cats outhit the Demon Deacons of Wake Forest last Thursday, yet only produced one run.

The Deacons used their hits more effectively, and scored six runs. Senior hurler Joel Tew was saddled with the loss which dropped his season record to 2-6. Tew’s sub-par performance this year has puzzled both Muench and him.

Although the Cats have a poor overall record, they have played well in conference games. The team traveled to Williamsburg last weekend with a 4-4 conference record.

After losing the first game of a doubleheader with the William and Mary Indians 4-0, the Cats bounced back to win the second game 8-2, and they returned to Davidson still at the .500 level.

Mike Hall, the team’s most consistent pitcher this season, pitched well against the Indians according to Muench, but he received no support from his hitters.

The Cat batters managed only three hits, and advanced only one runner past second base in the entire game.

The Cats’ bats boomed early in the second game, however, and after one inning Davidson led 4-0.

Stan Brown rapped three hits, and drove in three runs to run his team-leading RBI total to 15.

Freshman Ron Cannon pitched a no-hitter for five innings before faltering slightly in the sixth inning and allowing two runs.

The Wildcats will play N.C. State in Charlotte at Griffith Stadium Friday at 1:30 pm.

POEMS WANTED

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS is compiling a book of poems. If you have written a poem and would like our selection committee to consider it for publication, send your poem and a self-addressed stamped envelope to:

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS
614 - 1st Union Bldg.
Winston Salem, N.C. 27101