January 30, 1976

the davidsonian

9

Duke, South Carolina humble Cats

By PAUL BANTA

Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats, despite brilliant performances by Freshmen Tom Dore and John Gerdy, became the tenth victims of the Duke Blue Devils and their “freedom to run” offense in a 94-79 loss at Durham Tuesday night.

Dore, playing with the aggressiveness that he started to show in the second half of the South Carolina game, did everything well against the talented Duke squad. He hit on 11 of 14 shots, did not miss any of his free throw attempts, and grabbed 16 rebounds before fouling out in the last seconds with 27 points.

When Dore was not scoring, Gerdy was: he added 23 points of his own to the Davidson total. In addition to their offensive showings, both Dore and Gerdy played fine games defensively.

Dore held Duke’s Willie Hodge, who came into the contest owning an 18 points a game average, to only 12, and he blocked two Blue Devil shots. Gerdy, playing against Duke’s freshman star and last week’s ACC rookie-of-the-week Jim Spanarkel, forced Spanarkel into committing four fouls and thus limiting him to only 27 minutes of playing time.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats’ all-out efforts could not stop Duke’s balanced attack led by Junior guard Tate Armstrong and Junior forward Mark Crow. Armstrong banged in 24 points while Crow had 16.

As a team, Duke shot 57.5 percent and was credited with 26 assists and 21 steals. Davidson, playing a poor floor game, shot only 44.6 percent as a team and committed 32 turnovers.

As a note of interest, Dore’s scoring and rebounding totals were seasonal highs for the Wildcats, and his 16 rebounds tied the Cameron Indoor Stadium record for the most rebounds by a Duke opponent.

The South Carolina Gamecocks used their powerful frontline of Alex English, Nate Davis, and Bob Mathias to build a solid ten-point advantage and then let their running offense clinch the match in the game’s last seven minutes to defeat the Wildcats 84-70 in last Saturday’s regionally televised game in Charlotte.

The Gamecock trio’s efforts were helped by Davidson center Eppa Rixey’s early foul trouble that limited him to only 16 minutes of playing time and left only Freshman Tom Dore to anchor the Wildcat defense.

The abilities of Davis and English were apparent from the very beginning. Davis, bringing back memories of David Thompson, spent some time in the rafters pulling down the Wildcats’ first missed shot, and his fellow forward English also came out jumping and shooting, scoring half of the 16 points of his team’s early 16-8 lead. Senior guard Mike Dunleavy complimented his teammates’ inside game with a hot-hand from the outside. Only the long-range bombing of John Gerdy and Tom Jorgensen plus the 13 Gamecock fouls kept the Wildcats within striking distance in the first half.

The second half offered no relief for the Wildcats as the Gamecocks continued to stay a few steps ahead of the young Davidson cagers. With Rixey seeing limited action because of foul trouble, the burden of stopping English and South Carolina’s inside game fell upon the slim shoulders of Tom Dore. Dore’s response to that challenge proved to be one of the few bright spots in the Wildcats’ afternoon.

Although English added 14 second-half points, he was no longer able to score at will as he had done in the opening half. Dore countered his opponent’s offensive efforts by netting four baskets and forcing him to commit three fouls.

Unfortunately, Dore and teammates could not manage to catch up with their southern rivals, who finally got their running game going and moved out to a 74-56 lead on an Alex English lay-up with just 3:40 left in the contest. The Wildcats narrowed that margin slightly to set the final score.

[See CAGERS, page 11]

-Pete Goodman

Proofs of class pictures taken Jan. 12, 13, and 14 will be available for selection Thursday and Friday, Feb. 5 and 6 in the Morrison Room.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS: Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina's nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach and New Bern. 29th season. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities (including skin-diving and golf course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who are LOOKING FOR MORE THAN “just another summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 8—August 20. We seek highly qualified (ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), dedicated and enthusiastic staff members with exemplary character and offer good salaries, room and board, plus the opportunity of sharing in a meaningful and purposeful experience. Quick answer upon receipt of a letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of camp program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.