November 5, 1976

The Davidsonian

SGA sponsors dormitory visitation

By KEVIN SHELLY
Senior News Editor

The newly instituted visitation program sponsored by the Student Government Association (SGA) has been an overwhelming success in the initial stages of implementation. The only problem thus far is that the unexpected quantity of positive responses has caught the SGA unprepared, but they are expected to work out this minor problem soon.

The program was worked out by Steve Cuffe, SGA Vice-President, with aid from SGA President Bo Baskin; it is aimed at trying to establish a broader base and more direct contact between Senators and the students they represent. The procedure works on a three-week cycle. The first week each Senator is supplied with a list of forty students that he contacts and solicits suggestions from about the college. Next, the complaints are funneled into the SGA through sixteen subject areas ranging from athletics to the catch-all miscellaneous category. 

The third week each Senator gets back to the student with whatever action has been taken on their proposal. This procedure should occur two to three times a term in the future. The average response rate according to Cuffe is five to ten per Senator. Jim Clark, Duke Dormitory Senator, has received well beyond this and explained, “I was surprised because this is primarily an upperclassman dorm and I thought they’d believe that nothing would come of this—at least not for them.” He went on to say, “There is an appreciation that the program has been instituted at all.” Asked why he has received such a strong response, Clark said, “I just stare at them a while and they take me seriously.” Clark went on to say that by leaving the gripe sheets with the students they responded more freely and personally than they would have with him present.

Swine flu shots available soon

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Have you been coughing and vomiting? Have you felt congested? Are you experiencing muscular aches and general discomfort? Don’t panic! You only have the infamous swine flu, similar in its symptoms to influenza. But before you call it quits and pack up your books for that big classroom in the sky, read on.

In response to an outbreak of the so-called “Swine Flu” epidemic this year, the Federal Government has distributed $135 million nationwide to provide a swine flu vaccination to all those who want it. In addition, individual states and counties have contributed money, doctors, and shots. At present, the vaccination is voluntary, and is being provided systematically only to the elderly (60 and over) and the chronically ill, according to the Mecklenburg County Board of Health. The next group that will be vaccinated on a nationwide basis will be those between 24 and 60 years of age.

These vaccinations are being administered by physicians and public health clinics. The Federal Health, Education, and Welfare office had originally hoped to have the first series of shots distributed by January 15, 1977, but has recently moved that projected date back to pre-Christmas, 1976. While Davidson College is not providing the swine flu vaccination, Mecklenburg County plans to distribute the free vaccination through public health clinics, according to the College Infirmary. In the meantime, if those typewriter keys are appearing blurry, see yourfamily physician. They could discuss whatever they wanted and had time to mull over the problems before stating them. The areas that Clark recurrently griped about were curriculum. The most repeated complaint was with admissions policies that keep the male-female ratio disproportionate and the low racial ratio. The large response seems to fulfill Cuffe’s aim which is “to get students thinking and involved in the activities that affect them.” SORRY, but SGA visitation doesn’t include those in the Infirmary.

Admissions organizes plan for student recruiters
By CATHY LANDIS
Executive Editor

Believing students to be the best Public Relations personnel Davidson has, the Admissions Office is organizing a program utilizing student recruiters; initiated by Babette Kissam, the group will contact prospective students during their vacations. The student recruiting program will help to alleviate the coverage problem which the Admissions Office has faced in the past. The office cannot contact all the high schools where students might be interested. The current 380 freshmen, for example, represent 294 high schools. Dr. Spencer remarked, “There is no way to get around 800 high schools in a given year.”

Student recruiting is not a new idea. In the past, student recruiting consisted of volunteers calling prospective students whose names were placed on a computer print-out. Kissam offered to expand the program into what she calls a “tightly-organized system.” Chairmen will be assigned to specific areas. They will not only call prospective students, but will also see high school guidance counselors. Recruiters will also be an influential reference for prospective students. Students they recommend will be placed on the mailing list.

Student recruiters can also help the Admissions Office with what they call the “yield problem.” Recruits can contact prospective students after they have been accepted to answer any questions they might have before they make their final decision. Kissam says the program has a three-fold aim: to achieve geographic diversity, to encourage more minority students, and to recruit more exceptionally qualified students. Dr. Spencer says at one time the student body consisted primarily of North and South Carolina residents. Now 25 percent of the student body comes from outside the south. “We’ve welcomed the change, but we have not manipulated it. In other words, the Admissions Office has not accepted poorer students from areas outside of the south in order to achieve geographical diversity.” Spencer goes on to point out that now a diverse student body does not necessarily come from diverse geographical backgrounds. “A student from Chicago may not be any different than one from North Carolina.”

...ROTC remains deterrent
[Continued from page 1]

with their required afternoon lab hours. And the afternoon ROTC drill of previous years also remains as a “psychological deterrent” to afternoon classes, according to Burts. Resulting from departmental preferences and these “anachronisms” from the past, 9 am and 11 am classes are by far the most popular among faculty and students alike, presenting a scheduling difficulty for which Burts sees no enactable solution.

START NOV. 19 FOR DEC. 4 LSAT
12-Student Average Class Size
5 Specialist Instructors
18 Class Hours

FOR COMPLETE SCHEDULE INFORMATION AND OUR FREE BROCHURE, CALL THIS TOLL-FREE NUMBER TO LEAVE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS:
800-243-4767
AMITY TESTING INSTITUTE

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS