The Davidsonian
November 5, 1976

Jackson’s Nonliteral Experience in Art
By JAYNE REICH
Staff Writer

Herb Jackson treats a show of his works somewhat like a novel in which the pieces, like chapters, should be
sensed together as well as individually. His recent prints, drawings, and paintings are being shown through December 4 at Dryden
Galleries in Charlotte. It is well worth the effort to see them for the impact they make as a whole;
the show itself is a work of art.

Herb prefers to call his work nonliteral as they do not require any judgmental analysis. They simply call for personal
absorption of the way in which he has chosen to arrange his media. I find the variety of experiences that
I can derive from his works enhanced by their subtle complexity. For instance, in the series of most recent paintings
(including "Egyptian Spirit") an overall covering of pumice creates most of the movement on the large canvases. However, the rich
tonal underpainting and occasional appearance of line allow them to be appreciated from any distance and in part.

Most of the textured paintings I found more exciting viewed at closer range except for "Thalassa" and "Crosscurrents" which have
larger areas of contrast. Also "Mombasa"—a diptych painted most recently with emphasis on linear form. I found a more restful
piece to look at with no sacrifice to depth or impact of its parts.

Herb says he takes discoveries he makes from his paintings to his drawings and vice versa. I find I want
to return to his drawings again and again because of the combinations of airbrush, craypas, watercolor, and pencil. Line and
shading are combined almost mystically in the prints as well, even though the colors in some of the etchings seem
less personal.

A visit to Dryden Galleries is a chance to come closer to understanding developments in the awareness of the artist.
Herb describes the series as composed of transitional pieces in which he is looking for new elements, holding on to
others. In the ones he calls breakthroughs he discovers something totally new to be in turn explored and possibly carried
on into another series.

Go to the show prepared to look the way you listen to music. Lie down, nose up to a painting.
I hear that the gallery keeper will even...

By PAT HICKERT
Staff Writer

If the name Frank Bliss was mentioned to a typical Davidson student, he would probably think of the man at
the head of an English class. But Dr. Bliss is equally at home behind a camera, as anyone can readily
see after viewing his exhibit of prints currently hanging in the Union lobby.

He first came into contact with photography when his children were young. As any proud parent would, he desired to
record the youth of his children, but he quickly passed this “picture taking” stage; now he makes photographs. The difference
between taking pictures and making photographs is important to him. Dr. Bliss is no longer a passive recorder, now he
actively edits and selects not just what he will photograph, but how it will appear in the final print. By
doing this he puts his own personality into the photograph.

Dr. Bliss’ favorite medium is the black and white print, although some color work does appear in the Union exhibit.
A self-proclaimed realist, Dr. Bliss often photographs texture and objects, and the way light affects them. Dr. Bliss says, “I
love light.” The conflict (or the harmony) of light and shadow is a dominant theme in his work. Often, he
walks around his subject several times searching for just the right angle that will produce the effect he is striving
for.

Sometimes his photographs require some effort on the part of the viewer to realize just what he is looking at.
For instance, one print in the collection appears to be just an empty sidewalk. Only after looking at it for
a while does he realize that across the sidewalk is the shadow of a cross. For Bliss, photography is a
close-up art. The pattern or texture of a small section of bark may be as fascinating as the entire tree.
Many times the answer to the question: What is it? is less important than the play of light upon a
surface. It is important to him that he is not so overwhelmed by the magnitude of the forest that he
misses the beauty of a single tree.

The portrait is another favorite of Dr. Bliss’. The same sharpness and contrast that appear in his other work people
to remove their masks so one can photograph the person underneath is often a trying task. Frank Bliss portrays sharp
and contrasted.Change the lighting if you ask. Z Pirzio-Biroli visits Monday. The subject of European economic integration and its effect
on the Third World will be examined by Dr. Corrado Pirzio-Biroli, who will speak at Davidson College on Monday. He
is a representative of the Commission of the European Communities, the organization working for a “United States of Europe.” He
has spent the last five years examining the political ramifications of centralized government and economic planning. At present, he is
principal administrator in the basic planning division of the Commission’s Development.

At 10 am in Chambers Banquet Hall, he will speak on the topic “Europe and the Developing World—The Gap Between
Rich and Poor.” Pirzio-Biroli is fluent in five languages besides his native Italian. He studied at the University of Rome,
where he earned his doctorate in economics and business administration. He then attended the Institute of Social Studies (ISS) at
The Hague, Netherlands, receiving further degrees in economic planning and industrial development programming. He then served on the staff of
the ISS and as an economic advisor to Sudan. He joined the staff of the Commission in 1971 and led
an official tour of China in 1975.

Bliss makes his photographs clear. By ANN GARNER, Staff Writer. Year after year, Will Terry continues to amaze the Davidson
students—from the lowliest of freshmen to the most picky of the senior class—with his vast array of culinary feats. After
experiencing various degrees of success in his feeding of the multitudes, Terry has found that his major problem is finding
new ways to prepare green beans and peas, considered to be the only “safe” vegetables when encountering the variety of
likes and dislikes. So, pulled from his sacred files are the following—good not only because of their origin but because
they can be prepared in most dorm rooms.

Hungry students recognize Terry’s gastronomic talents.

Beef Dip
- 8 oz. cream cheese
- 1/2 or 1 cup of sour cream
- 2 tbsp. milk
- 2 tbsp. minced onion
- 1 small jar dried beef

Mix first four ingredients and add the beef which has been shredded. Put into a pie plate and bake for
20 minutes at 350 degrees. Serve warm with crackers. Serves 25.

Chili Con Carne
- 1 1/2 cups canned kidney beans (drained and rinsed)
- 1 large onion chopped
- 1 green pepper chopped
- 1 lb. ground beef
- 3 1/2 cups tomatoes
- 1 1/2 tsp. salt
- Dash pepper and cayenne pepper
- 3 whole cloves
- 1 bay leaf
- 1 or 2 tbsp. chili powder

Brown onion, green pepper, and meat. Add tomatoes and seasonings. Add beans. Simmer for 30 minutes. (It is easy to
cook in a crock pot.) It may be served over spaghetti. Serves 4.

Chocolate Mousse
In blender put:
- 2 eggs
- 1 pkg. semi-sweet chocolate
- 2 tbsp. sugar
- 1/2 tsp. vanilla

Add 1 cup scalded milk and blend for one minute. Pour into coffee cups and place in refrigerator until congealed.
Serve with whipped cream. Serves 6.

Bliss has succeeded here in grand fashion. One photo of a group of Indian children shows the personality of the
children. This photograph, Dr. Bliss’ favorite in the display, was taken at St. Crispin’s Orphanage in Poona, India. These children
are happy, and should one look at the photo for a while, he will find that happiness to be contagious.

Artist Series
The Artist Series will host the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra Wednesday, November 10 at 8:15 pm in Love Auditorium. In
1968, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra became the only full-time and professional chamber orchestra in the United States. It now
employs twenty-five musicians drawn from orchestra backgrounds all over the country.

Under Music Director Dennis Russell Davies, who came to the orchestra in 1972, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra has attained
national and international recognition as one of the best small orchestras in the world. Its audiences in the metropolitan area
of Minneapolis and Saint Paul have increased dramatically.

The Chamber Orchestra’s repertoire covers some 400 years of music from Baroque composers such as Bach, Telemann, and Handel, through
the classical compositions of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. Special emphasis is placed on twentieth-century composition and works by American composers,
making the full repertoire cover the broad range of rarely-heard classical-to-contemporary music for full orchestra or smaller ensembles.

From part-time beginnings, the SPCO’s season has grown to forty weeks a year, with four series of concerts: Capital, Perspectives,
Great Composers, and Baroque. In each of the cities, the orchestra performs a series of concerts and provides educational services
at all levels, elementary through college. Now in its ninth season, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra continues to offer the
wide range of music and services which have made it one of the pre-eminent orchestras in the United States.
