February 6, 1976

The Davidsonian

Brewing Disillusion

[Continued from page 4]

Studying moving from social stigma to academic vogue. People running scared. Big brothers out of jobs. Security. "Yes sir, I
have always wanted to be a doctor." He thought back on his freshman year. What did he remember? Chemistry 31
and 41 were just about gone. Acid and base? Even Humanities was slipping. Gilgamesh, arete, and Plutarch’s Lives. But remember
that herd date to Salem? Remember the "Great Streak"? Remember the South Carolina game? Whatever happened to Steve Morris? How
about Fireman or even Krishna? What did I take Spring term?

An article in a magazine. At the University of Denver, Michael Rock, an economics professor, walked into class one day
near the end of the term and announced that he would auction off grades in the class—for money. The results?
"Although a few students protested, Mr. Rock took in almost $2000, getting an average of $85 for an A, $55
for a B, and $35 for a C. One student, noticing that several others were absent, bought up all the
extra C’s and D’s and tried to sell them for inflated prices. Mr. Rock...took promissory notes from most of the
students, but one gave him $80 in cash. A few students said they destroyed term papers and stopped studying for
final exams after the auction."

"College," he had said, "is essentially four years in which to grow up." His major had changed as many times
as his sheets. His ideas of himself had varied even more. He had felt a need for limited fame. He
had felt a need for immediate service. He had often seen himself through a career. He had often pictured himself
by means of his friends. Occasionally, he felt the thrill of unforeseen discoveries. Occasionally, he had felt the dross of
unmitigated boredom. More often, he had been entirely unsure of what, or if, he felt.

He was now considered an upperclassman. He didn’t feel it. He knew time was slipping by. He refused to believe
it. He felt things were quieter. He knew people were changing. He even thought, at times, he was included. But
most of the time, he truly wondered if he had grown at all. He had a year to go.

[This is, admittedly, neither a definitive statement nor a clear-cut solution. It is also more an amalgamation than a personal
testimony. But this article is meant to raise questions. Perhaps stir up controversy. This is your paper. These editorial pages
are even more so. Why not let yourselves be heard?]

[Specific quotes and some ideas lifted from the article "College: Sis-Boom-Bah-Humbug," Harper’s, Oct., ’75]

Belief and Tenure

[Continued from page 4]

Lukewarm in their religion and the process of erosion followed. Apathy toward religion rather than challenge and debate ensued and
only much later did the hypocrisy become apparent. Exposing the anomaly of having professed believers with only nominal commitments brought
the abolition of religious requirements for tenure.

I believe that religious questions are of supreme importance to modern man, and I yearn for vigorous debate of them
by faculty and students. And this can only occur in a free atmosphere where challenges to religion are voiced by
opponents. The church-related college can legitimately build the institutional structure where these questions are seriously considered. Doctrinal requirements in oaths,
creeds, and professions are the province of a church, not a college. The church-related college is not a church; it
exists as a college dedicated to the education of youth and the pursuit of truth.

Religious restrictions upon tenure can also become a weapon in the hands of administrators to eliminate teachers whom they dislike
from the permanent ranks of their institutions. If some of those who receive tenure in a college with such restrictions
do not fulfill the religious requirements and others with the same beliefs are dismissed, then at least in some cases
of nonrenewal, religion may be a veil for the reasons behind dismissal.

During the last two decades, many colleges, both Protestant and Catholic, have eliminated all such restrictions upon tenure without giving
up their claims to be institutions of higher learning affiliated with ecclesiastical bodies. Many Presbyterian colleges place no religious conditions
upon tenure. Perhaps they believe that any doctrinal qualification upon tenure violates the nature of academic freedom. Or perhaps they
have come to realize that theological assertions rest upon their own merits and need no institutional defense in an arena
of free inquiry.

Those who claim to have found the religious Truth do not fear that their position will be undermined by challenges
from opponents. They believe that their doctrines can stand the test of time through continuous scrutiny. And those who hold
more tenuous beliefs are equally willing to examine alternative positions in their quest for religious understanding.

Davidson College can eliminate its requirement that tenured faculty members be active members of Christian churches without jeopardizing its position
as a church-related college. By doing so, we will affirm that tenure protects academic freedom and not primarily a denominational
set of religious standards. If we wish to pursue the truth, let us do so in a spirit of open
inquiry. Religious questions ought to be debated upon this and every other campus and, related to the Presbyterian Church, this
college can take institutional steps to ensure discussion of these issues.

Davidson has moved in this direction by allowing some tenured faculty members to be exceptions to the religious standard as
"reverent seekers of the truth" instead of qualifying as active members of churches. Let us complete the step with a
full affirmation of academic freedom through unrestricted tenure. Let us also affirm the ecclesiastical relation of the college through vigorous
debate of religious questions, a strong chapel program, a strong counseling program emphasizing the worth of the individual, and through
humane teaching and administration.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

To theEditor: Last week I received a letter from a friend who transferred from Davidson after Fall Term this year,
it being his sophomore year. Most of the letter was a contrast between Davidson and McGill College to which he
transferred. Although he did overplay some of the facts, I felt he made some valid points. I’m not saying I
totally agree or disagree with what he said, but a few of the statements struck home. I hereby submit it
for the Davidson student body and faculty to mull over.

Jarry Taylor ’78
Davidson College

Dear Jarry,

I started yesterday and have finished today’s classes, so I’ve been to all my classes except one. All I can
say is I know I’m going to love it. I don’t know where to begin in the ways it tops
Davidson because in my eyes there’s just so many. I’ll just try to list them as they come to me,
not necessarily in order of importance.

First, the class sizes. Out of the four I’ve been in, two are what you’d have to call large (150)
and the other two are around 50. I’ll tell you, Jarry, that’s the way I like it and I’ll tell
you why. No more brown nosing! With 150 people in a class, you know that no Joe Blow is going
to put up his hand to tell the professor what a wonderful human being he is. But if you have
a serious question, you can go ahead and ask it. I thought because of the number of people it would
be embarrassing, but it’s not because you realize they’re just students like yourself. But you would be amazed how few
questions there are once you get rid of the b.s. The class runs much more smoothly than one at Davidson
where everyone is competing to get on the good side of the teacher.

Next, the campus. Jarry, you really feel like you’re somewhere when you are here. Instead of walking around Chambers all
day staring at the same smiling faces and trying to remember you’re not still in high school, at McGill you
know you’re in a university; you’re constantly meeting new and different people and that makes it exciting. You don’t stumble
out of your loft every morning, throw on the same dirty clothes, stumble down to Richard’s for some powdered eggs
before dragging yourself over to Chambers to listen to some boring professor try to describe medieval history. It’s just not
like that here, Jarry. I can’t explain why, it’s just something you have to experience, but I'll tell you one
thing; anyone that ever said big universities suck never went to Davidson.

Furthermore, there are the advantages of having a library three or four times the size of Davidson’s plus separate libraries
for most of the departments. Also, there is the “plus” of having professors that are in touch with the “Real
World” rather than backwoods teachers who teach out of 40-year-old books they used at Chapel Hill, or brand new ones
they can’t begin to understand. I’m not saying the professors here are more intelligent than the teachers at D.C.; I’m
saying you can’t live in the hillbilly country of North Carolina and comprehend the intricacies of urban affairs or anything
that requires some personal involvement on the student’s or teacher’s part, and of course that includes all the social sciences.
Sure, if you take pre-med at McGill University or Davidson there’s no difference (except the facilities here are far superior)
because a fetal pig is a fetal pig no matter where it’s dissected. But when you attempt to delve into
the human condition, you can’t hope to get any understanding of it when you’re separated from the rest of humanity
with 1200 solid Presbyterians and a hundred ancient teachers, totally segregated from reality and with little or no desire to
get back in touch with it.

McGill and D.C. are worlds apart and the longer I’m away from Davidson the more I realize this. When I
think back at last year and the first part of this one, it astonishes me that I stayed at D.C.
as long as I did. But, I’ll tell you one thing, I thank the Lord (operating under the premise that
there is one) that I got out of there before it was too late. Jarry, for me at least, it
was a total waste of time. Yet, I suppose I would never recognize the advantages of this place if I’d
never been to Davidson. People at D.C. are close-minded, they come to Davidson thinking they know everything, and go through
four years trying to prove it. There’s no hang-up. Right there you have the difference between McGill and Davidson. At
McGill, you’ve got people who came to find out answers, studied, and reached conclusions. At Davidson, there was a bunch
of kids whose faith was based on the Sunday School class they attended when they were five or six, saw
something was missing in their lives and found it in Jesus at an FCA meeting with Bart Starr. And there
you have the difference.

When I was at Davidson I was surrounded by kids who already knew the answers. It mattered little what Freud
or Plato said in the books they read, they didn’t want to learn, they wanted to get good grades on
the next exam. And this had a detrimental effect on me. I got bored and apathetic. The grades didn’t mean
much to me and neither did course content. Well, fortunately, that has all changed; I’m where I should’ve been all
along because you see I don’t know the answers and I want to try to find them out. Oh, I
know I'll never understand everything but at least I’m going to try.

Love y’all,
Keir
