October 1, 1976

FENCING? No, rather it’s a bold defensive lunge during flickerball action this week.

IMAC flickerball play

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

Is it a SPE rush party? A re-enactment of the peanut-popping, teeth-gnashing Carter-Ford debate? A chimpanzee party with a single banana? A Pre-Cambrian Canaanite sacrificial ritual?

No, it’s merely an outburst of flickerball mania that is rampaging throughout the campus, a phenomenon that reduces normal, healthy Davidson students to bumbling idiots.

The first evident outbreak occurred on field #7 as Porky Pig routed SPE #2 18-13.

With thirty seconds remaining, and SPE #2 on top 13-12, Jim “Turkey” Wood turned sideways and propelled a five-yard punt out of bounds to give Porky Pig the ball on the SPE #2 23-yard line. The Pigs squealed in delight as Professor Shi grunted and threw the winning pass on the next play.

Another outbreak was observed as Off Again came on again to bludgeon the Basement Bangers 32-7.

Off Again will most likely have an undefeated season.

The utterly disgusting Doggie Style took on Pika in a battle of the unbeatens. Led by the dynamic Cory Young and Speed Burner “Bowie” Andrews, Doggie Style showed a definite lack of couth as they came out on top, 61-7.

Of course, the perennially putrid Pika team is no stranger to the bottom.

While Gang Bang was busy Wednesday afternoon, PDT #1 thoroughly emulsified them 57-0. Maybe next time Gang Bang will turn their attention to the game, at the risk of losing crowd turnout.

That controversial team of old, the Whizz Kids, once again took advantage of a freshman hall while sputtering past 3rd Richardson 44-38.

Mike Knowles’ brilliant fly patterns (who is Carroll Enssley?) lent respectability to a Whizz Kids offense that will do anything to win.

PDT #3 wilted and set the sun as SAE #1 fried the lifeless willies 52-0. The remnants of PDT #3 can be observed in the invertebrate section of the Biology museum.

Moving on to the lighter side of life, we found only one encounter involving young lasses.

O. Jane Simpson and her electric company, Killer Watts, zapped the inept 6th Watts squad 6-0. Not only did 6th Watts fail to get a first down, their porous defense allowed 500 yards rushing and 300 passing by the rip-roaring, snooter-snorting O. Jane.

So concludes our first enlightening column.

---

Plaza Gift Shop

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

---

Patio Party

For All Meal Card Holders.
On Oct. 6 At 4 pm
You Are Invited To
Richards House
For A Patio Party.
There Will Be Cheese Trays,
Peanuts, Pretzels, Chips & Dip
And Even Some Relish Trays.
Don’t Miss It

---

Upcoming Sports

Cross Country
October 2 11 am St. Andrews

Rugby
October 2 2 pm at Columbia

Soccer
October 2 2 pm at William and Mary
October 3 2 pm at VMI

---

The Return of the All Important VESTED SUIT

Use your Automatic Charge Account

Come See our Selections by Palm Beach

Shirts by Sero and Van Heusen

Shoes by Bostonian and Bass

and Levi Jeans

Come Browse

Union National.
Only 6 miles north—Mooresville.