College stops hall counselor’s pay
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

The college policy of paying Freshman Hall Counselors $100 a term has been discontinued. The money will now be used to finance “other student services” including the Experiential Learning Programs.

The decision to discontinue payment of Hall Counselors came during the time that the Dean of Student’s office was receiving applications for next year’s counseling positions. Those who have applied did so assuming they would be paid.

“The decision had not been made when applications began,” said Dean of Students Will H. Terry, “but I doubt that anyone applied because of the money. Hall counseling is a service job and a student could make more money working somewhere else,” he said.

“I don’t think anybody had gone into the job for the money. The stipend they receive was just thought of as whip cream on top,” said Terry.

The decision stems at least in part to the discovery by college President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. that hall counselors or ‘Junior Advisors’ at Williams College were not being paid.

“They pay hall counselors almost everywhere else and I must confess that when I started the program here I figured we had to pay just like everyone else did,” said Spencer. “Then I found out that Williams College, which is very much like Davidson in every way, did not pay its junior advisors. I said, ‘by golly if they can do it, why can’t we?’”

In the past, the money given to Hall Counselors has provided them with an opportunity to spend some money on hall activities without clearing the expense with the Dean’s office first.

“Next year’s Freshman Advisors Carol Connor and Gary Barnes told me that some of the money was spent for hall activities, and I didn’t know that. They said that they didn’t mind spending a little of their own money because they knew that they were getting paid,” said Terry. “Whenever a hall counselor spends money for his hall, he will still certainly be reimbursed,” he added.

The decision to discontinue payment is designed, according to Spencer, to underscore the importance of volunteer service. “We do the students a disservice if we promote the idea that students should be paid for the things they do,” said Spencer. “One of the main problems in our society is the materialism that enters into everything we do,” he added.

Terry agrees with Spencer that hall counseling is a service job and suggests that Davidson students need to be prepared to do service jobs throughout their lives without payment. “Most Davidson people will be called upon to do many things in the community sheerly from the motive of concern for other people. These jobs

Vol. LXV, No. THIRTEEN
Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036
January 23, 1976

Jackson predicts cessation of Davidson National show
By BILL BARNES
News Editor
and RICK FAY
Staff Writer

The 1976 showing of the Davidson National print exhibit may be the last. Associate Professor of Art Herbert Jackson has indicated that he cannot continue to mount the show without a full-time assistant.

Jackson submitted a written request for an additional faculty member for the art department and a re-evaluation of his position with regard to the National to college president Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. and vice president for academic affairs Frontis W. Johnson before Christmas, 1975. The request was tabled due to lack of funds.

The college administration is presently hoping to convert Chambers Banquet Hall into an art gallery, a project which would, Jackson estimated, cost around $25,000. This and the expiration of the grant funding the Experiential Learning Program have precluded allocation of funds to theHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Art department. Spencer also indicated that he was not willing to involve the college in a long-term commitment to support the National. "I still hope something might be worked out," he said, adding that he was "open to any suggestions." Jackson was not disappointed to hear of Spencer’s decision. "It’s time for it to be over for me," he said. "It’s too much in addition to teaching and painting." The National is known across the United States and was the first exhibition of its kind in the United States. It draws some 2500 entries each year, each of which Jackson catalogues, with student assistance.

END OF AN ERA: Art Professor Herb Jackson predicts this year will be the last year for Davidson National. -Leon Venable

National is Martha Tucker, of the Whitney Museum in New York. The college does not fund the National; Jackson raises money through contributions and entry fees. There is doubt that the town of Davidson would consent to host the National. Mayor Thomas Sadler said that such a proposal would "have to be put before the board" before any action could be taken on it.

Johnson does not feel that the demise of the National will greatly affect the college. "We had a good college before the Davidson National and we'll have a good college without it," he said.

"Will be ones where they will receive no remuneration," said Terry.

COUNTRY ROCK GROUP "Wet Willie" will perform in Love Auditorium on Saturday, January 24, at 8 pm. Admission will be three dollars per person.

Snow wins ’77 senate seat with second class election

By STEPHEN BELL Senior News Editor

Tuesday afternoon, new elections for SGA Senate representatives for the class of 1977 were held. In the new elections, Tony Snow, Lynne Keener, and Joe Logan won seats on the Senate for the class of ’77, and were sworn into office at the Senate meeting that evening. A similar situation with the class of ’78, involving questions of which students had a right to appear on the election ballot, was resolved without the need for a second election. Steve Sparger withdrew his appeal to have his name appear on the ballot, and thus the results of the first election were allowed to stand. D.C. Augustine, Steve Smith, and David Tinkler had won in the January 13 election, and they, too, were sworn into office at the Senate meeting last Tuesday night.

Peyton Marshall, parliamentarian of the Senate, said, "After the mistakes that were made before the first election, any outcome would have been at odds with one or another of the SGA By-laws. But I think this outcome, in terms of the ethical thrust of the by-laws, was optimal." Marshall explained that, to avoid these situations in the future, the by-laws are being revised to establish an adjudicating body to settle constitutional questions, and to specify an election appeals procedure for students. The sign-up process, the source of the problems with the January 13 elections, is also being modified.

Baskin commented, "Considering the mistakes made in the beginning, I think things went as well as they could have. I’m sorry Sabra Faires was put in the position she was in. But all this is behind us now. I think we’ve got a good Senate."

Faires had won a Senate seat in the first, invalidated election, but she lost it to Snow in the second election. A number of other offices were filled Tuesday night. Joe Hartsoe was appointed to replace newly-elected SGA vice-president Steve Cuffe as Belk Dorm senator, Bo Hunter was appointed to chair the Parking and Security Committee, and Patti Phillips was appointed to chair the Building and Grounds Committee.