April 16, 1976 | The Davidsonian

Faculty discovers students' statement, but is it too late?

Evaluations. Students described their teachers as open-minded, flexible, organized, concerned, challenging, clearly understood, enthusiastic, accessible, personable, and trusting. The only fault students consistently found with their professors was that they were slow to return papers.

Ironically, we have written so many articles, columns, and editorials on the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities that for most students the subject is worn out. A standing Davidsonian joke is to tell a writer that he will get a big reaction if he writes about the statement. It isn’t true. The Davidsonian has written about the statement, written in favor of the statement, written against the statement, and asked students to take a closer look at the statement. The college community as a whole has taken our views for what they were worth and with customary boredom gone on with whatever they were doing.

Well, here comes the faculty. The faculty voted at its April sixth meeting to send the Statement of Rights and Responsibilities to committee in order that it might be reviewed. Preliminary indications are that the document may be partially re-written by this faculty committee. The reason for this re-write is that some faculty members feel that the document is antagonistic and that it causes a rift between students and professors. To re-write the statement now is to threaten to keep the trustees from voting on it at all this May, forcing them to wait at least until their next meeting in October.

The Statement of Rights and Responsibilities has been kicked around for almost two years. If the trustees have to wait until October to approve or reject the statement, it will have been exactly two years. Adding to the incomprehensibility of the faculty’s decision is that they have been involved with the document since its earliest hour. A Governance subcommittee consisting of Drs. Bevan, Epes, McKelway, and Dean Terry did the first work on the document a year and a half ago. Students on this committee were Blain Butner, John Hornickle, and John Munce. A college lawyer who was also secretary of the Board of Trustees helped this subcommittee with wording of the Statement. It is hard to imagine that a group made up of faculty, administration, and students could come to a joint agreement on a document that was antagonistic toward the faculty.

Aside from the fact that faculty members were instrumental in drafting the current document, it is also important to note that the Statement of Rights and Responsibilities has been in its present form and published for everyone to see since early March. For over a month the faculty has done nothing. Now, with less than a month before the May trustee meeting, the faculty has thrown the statement into committee. If it doesn’t come out in time, it will be next fall before it can be voted on by the trustees and would therefore not be likely to go into effect until the end of next year. This would mean that no one in the present junior or senior classes and no one who is currently involved with the statement will ever go to school when it is in effect.

One aspect of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities is that much of what it does, or will do, is to state rights and responsibilities that are already tacitly recognized. There is proof that these rights do not cause antagonism now. Look at the results of the fall term course evaluations.

The Davidsonian
Matthew Covington .......... Editor
Gordon Moms ............... Managing Editor
Jim Sisk .................... Business Manager
Mike DeVore ............... Photography Editor
Rita Coto ................... Production Manager
Ben Provisor ............... Editorial Page Editor
Ed Pomeroy ............... News Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ... Features Editors
Eric Vincent ............... Advertising Manager
Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Commend the faculty for taking an active role in studying the statement. We ask, however, that they be advised of the time and the circumstances involved with making any statement operational. The students seem satisfied with the document; a referendum allowing them to formally approve it was planned for the end of this month. The trustees have had the statement in hand since February. The faculty must hurry with their evaluation. They are holding things up, and if they don’t make their decisions quickly, they will be letting everyone down.

By TONY SNOW and BOB WESTMORELAND

The faculty’s recent attempt to stop subsidized basketball is not without precedent. Even during Lefty Drisell’s most successful days, tantrums by academicians. Nevertheless, the concern of Messrs. Polley, Kaylor, Kelton, Wolf et al., seems unwarranted in the face of fact.

Fact: the halcyon days of Lefty Driesell coincided precisely with your academic high-water mark. For instance, in 1966, Davidson College received applications from 1,274 males, accepting 426, or 33 percent of the applicants. Though official statistics for SAT scores were not released that year, Barron’s reported a mean verbal score of 626 for Davidson men and 653 on the math. In other words, in the heyday of basketball prominence, the college boasted a mean SAT composite score of 1,279. Compare these figures with the 1973 admissions picture, where the college accepted 575 of 1,108 applicants (889 males); an acceptance rate of 52 percent. These students boasted average verbal scores of 586 and math scores of 633, a composite of 1,219, 60 points below the figure quoted for 1965. Allowing the statistical maximum of 34 points error (a highly improbable situation indeed), the Class of 1977 flounders 26 points behind their skinheaded ancestors.

Another revealing figure claims that over 20 percent of Davidson’s applicants during the 1960s applied after being contacted by the athletic department. This figure does not include the hundreds of others who would never have heard of Davidson were it not for its successful basketball program. A Sports Illustrated story in 1964 (Dec. 7) opened with this description: “For decades the end product at quiet, leafy old Davidson College has been a species called the Davidson Gentleman—hand-polished Southerners of good manners and great learning. The ivy on Davidson’s walls is the real stuff; the Rhodes people come here looking for scholars (they have found 14, a remarkable figure for a 1,000-man student body); 70 percent of the faculty members are doctors of something or other, and it is the last place where one would expect to find the best basketball team in the country. But there it is: the fastest, fairest band of educated ruffians around, coached by Charles G. (Lefty) Driesell.”

Another drools: “Elegant Davidson College admits no athletic tramps,” a fact which Driesell himself demonstrated convincingly in a letter to the Davidsonian on Oct. 14, 1966. “You may be interested to know that the subsidized basketball players that are in our student body here at Davidson have average College Board scores of 572 verbal, 643 math, for an average total of 1,215. Their average rank in class is 71st out of 434, making them in the top 16.25 percent of their high school class.” Keep in mind that Lefty is referring to the team which was 3rd in the nation. They obviously weren’t mongoloids. Driesell continues: “The five boys in the freshman class... receiving financial aid have average College Board scores of 594 verbal, 631 math, for a total of 1,225. Their average rank in class is 90th out of 450.”

These figures are not only impressive for a team which advanced to the finals of the Eastern regionals (a team which, incidentally, included Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Jerry Kroll, all of whom were drafted by professional basketball teams), but they top the average figures for the past three entering classes, and are at most seven points below the class average for any entering class at Davidson this decade.

The argument that nationally competitive basketball teams drain us of our academic purity can be dismissed as pure dross. Referring to Driesell’s recruiting procedures, Sports Illustrated said, “He knew he had a valuable package to offer—a top-caliber education at Davidson. He learned to use Davidson’s stiff, unrelenting academic requirements to attract brainy athletes and destroy the losing tradition that many on the faculty had grown to prize as a barometer of institutional integrity.” Touche, faculty.