September 24, 1976

the davidsonian

Novice reporters tell IMAC history

By THE KNAVES

Egad friends! The KA’s are holding two-a-day tryouts, the SPE’s have traded their frisbees in on a new pigskin, the SAE’s are busy dumping the sand out of their sneakers, and the freshpersons are bumbling in front of Chambers.

These phenomena can only mean that forthwith, flying, flagrant fumbles will fill fields with forlorn frosh. Flickerball is upon us.

Fron-Fron once told us that history is nothing but the reading and re-reading of old IMAC score cards. Thus, with the kind permission of commissioner Jeff Brown, who is vainly attempting to replace the irreplaceable Bowie Kuhn, we spent the past week researching in the IMAC archives.

What did we discover? There are no archives. Alas, left to our own devices, we pooled our vast intellectual resources, and came up with the history of Flickerball.

Time and space do not permit a complete coverage of the subject.

Therefore, this week we will concentrate on some of the more illustrious figures that once won acclaim on the intramural fields.

One of the most forgettable games ever played at Davidson pitted an administration team led by Registrar Richard Burts against a hapless team of real zeroes.

The outcome of the game was always in doubt. Neither team played above its capabilities. However, in the closing seconds, Dick Burts broke into the open on a long flick, a desperation flick came his way, and unfortunately for the administration, the ball slipped through his hands.

His only excuse to his disappointed teammates: “I’m sorry but my hands were tied.”

Professors have not always been paid well here at Davidson. It has only been in recent years that the need for a professor to hold down a second job has diminished.

One of the most popular of the moonlighting jobs was to referee IMAC flickerball games at two bucks a game. Professor of Philosophy George Abernathy was one of the school’s most respected referees.

Like every other referee, he was never able to complete a game without meeting some trouble from the more obnoxious gross teams on campus.

It is remembered that in one game, there was a heated argument over a touchdown call. The players demanded Abernathy to tell them whether it was a touchdown or not, his classic reply was, “What is is; what is not is not.”

One of the greatest split ends in the history of Davidson football was the elusive and deceptive Carroll Ensley whose pass patterns consistently left the field strewn with athletic supporters.

Ensley, who was editor of the Quips and Cranks when not practicing his flicks, had a natural ability to get lost in a crowd. Tragically, Ensley’s career ended on a down-and-out pattern into the woods of field five and across the state line.

The first recorded injury in flickerball history occurred in the late 1920s. Chalmers Davidson (voted the tailback of the century by the writers of this garbage) revolutionized the game with his legendary “Southern weave.”

This maneuver involved running backwards at full speed which both concealed the ball from the defense and allowed the tailback the option of a quick pitch to a trailing halfback.

On the day of the 1927 Championship game, Chalmers went through his usual pre-game warm-up of a half-dozen well-endowed mint juleps and 47 deep knee bends. Eyewitnesses still claim that they had never seen the weave executed more perfectly—even between plays Chalmers had the weave at work.

However, late in the game on a crucial fourth down play, Chalmers ran his “Southern weave” into a stand of Southern pines. A plaque was later placed on the first tree Chalmers hit and even now in the drier months you can see the indentation made by Chalmers’ head.

In the true American tradition, flickerball has been wracked by its share of scandals. An overzealous freshman in 1939 by the name of Slammin’ Sam Spencer got hold of a playbook from Williams College and tried to use it in the playoffs.

If it’s good enough for Williams, by golly, it’s good enough for Davidson—right Slammer?

Only two years ago, IMAC sports was rocked to its foundations by a sex scandal when a squad called The Sty tried to pass themselves off as a girls’ flickerball team. No doubt about it, some teams will go to any lengths to win.

Flickerball history may even be made this year and if so, these intrepid reporters will be there to cover it. Perhaps the Zeroes will win a game. Maybe the Delts will stay straight for both halves of the game.

Who knows, this column might even be semi-humorous for a change. Only time will tell.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

Oct. 1 The Apprenticeship of Duddy Cravets

Oct. 8 Patton

Oct. 22 Nashville

Oct. 29 TBA

Nov. 5 3 Days of the Condor

Nov. 12 Twelve Chairs

“RATED R. UNDER 17 NOT ADMITTED WITHOUT PARENT. ID’S WILL BE CHECKED.

Plaga Gift Shop

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

CHILDREN BY CHOICE