the davidsonian February 6, 1976

Gergen, Widenhouse capture coaches debate tournament

© The Davidson College Varsity Debate Team captured first place at the Duke University Coaches Tournament last weekend in Durham.

The two-man duo of Gordon Widenhouse, a senior from Valdese, N.C., and Mark Gergen, a sophomore from Frankfurt, Ky., defeated George Washington University in the championship round to take top honors. All of the five judges evaluating the final round voted for Davidson.

“Naturally, we are pleased with the results of this type in any tournament,” explained Widenhouse, the team captain. “But we have not debated since mid-November, so we looked at the Duke tournament as a warm-up for the spring term.”

Twenty-four teams from seven states attended the event. Gergen and Widenhouse defeated William and Mary in the semi-final round to qualify for the championship debate. The team finished with a 5-1 record during the preliminary rounds, which seeded them as the top team when the final eight teams went into the elimination rounds on Sunday.

“The strange thing about the final three rounds was that we debated on the affirmative all three times,” said Widenhouse. “When two schools have not met in a tournament, there is a coin toss and the winner selects which side it wants. We lost two tosses but both schools selected the negative position.”

Widenhouse received the award as the tournament’s top speaker with 148 of 180 possible points. Gergen placed seventh among the 48 speakers.

Other schools which Davidson defeated in the Duke competition include the University of South Carolina, Richmond, South Florida, Carson-Newman College, and another team from William and Mary. In addition, teams from Old Dominion, The Citadel, Virginia Military Institute, Wake Forest, and Duke participated in the tournament.

The purpose of the Duke tournament was to honor the coaches. Because Davidson finished first, Ms. Jean Cornell, the director of the Davidson program, received the award as the top coach of the tournament.

Crawford, Wright win EPC positions

By BRAD SWALWELL Senior News Editor

The Senate adjourned after meeting for two hours last Tuesday night, having moved through only four of 13 items on its agenda.

The first item on the evening’s agenda was the filling of various vacant positions. The first to be filled were two vacant slots on the faculty’s Educational Policy Committee (EPC). The EPC’s involvement in all areas of the curriculum, combined with a pre-meeting letter to students about the openings, account for the unusually high interest among students in serving on the committee. Ten people, including two senators, sought appointment to one of the two positions.

After 90 minutes of questioning candidates and debate, the Senate elected Sam Crawford and Bonnie Wright to the two EPC posts. In winning the appointments, the two freshmen beat out a number of upperclassmen.

The Senate appointed Rick Fay as Student Administrator of the security force. Fay replaces Alan Malcolm as the student who administers the parking ticket system.

Cathy Howard was appointed Little Dorm Senator to fill the vacancy created by Tenley Shewmake’s resignation.

After hearing committee reports and a report on a Senate workshop planned for this weekend, the Senate moved to the fourth item on its agenda. Ed Sibley’s motion to request that the faculty adopt a policy of giving no reviews and having no papers due on the last three days of class, which was made at a previous meeting, was again brought up for debate. The motion, however, became tangled in a web of substitute motions, amendments, and amendments to amendments and was tabled so it could be straightened out for the next Senate meeting.

“I was extremely pleased with the way Gordon...and Mark debated,” Cornell noted. “I think this year has been one of the best for debate at Davidson.” The victory does continue a very successful year for both the Gergen/Widenhouse team and the Davidson program as a whole. Davidson teams have also captured positions in the top three at the Washington and Lee, Johns Hopkins, Appalachian, and Madison tournaments. Gergen and Widenhouse now have a cumulative win-loss record of 31 wins and 12 losses for the season and have advanced into the elimination rounds at four of five tournaments in which they have participated.

SELF-PORTRAIT WITH SPOON, from an exhibition of Richard Stenkrase's work at the Mint Museum of Art in Charlotte.

Wald discusses origins of cosmos, man’s stellar role
By EDDIE POLLOCK
Staff Writer

Harvard University Professor and Nobel Prize recipient George Wald spoke at Davidson this week. Wald, whose list of awards and achievements includes the 1967 Nobel Prize for Medicine, was late in arriving at Davidson because of heavy Northern snows. However, his talks and lectures with students and faculty were not hindered. The 69-year-old professor spoke on a number of topics. Beginning with the universe, Wald noted that we find ourselves in a universe where, if one single property of that universe were altered, life would become impossible, both on this planet and anywhere else. “After all,” said Wald, “our universe is a very special universe.”

Wald went on to comment on various parts which make up the cosmos. “Stars have to die in this universe before organisms can live,” he said, noting how the first generation of stellar life came into being, and how all living things came from stars. “In fact,” said Wald, “stars are like living organisms; they have their own pathology, their own metabolism, and their composition is much like our own.” Wald said that 99 percent of all things throughout the universe are dependent on four principal elements: hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen. These elements formed the basis of the universe as the first generation of stars was forming.

Wald also discussed life on earth and other planets. In order for life to exist, he maintained, two conditions are essential. First, one must have conditions where it is possible for water to be found as a liquid. Then, one must have a planet which is big enough, but not too big, to support an atmosphere. A principal topic of interest throughout Wald’s visit at Davidson was Man and Man’s role in the universe. “We’re not taking very good care of things, not human beings, not of the earth,” said Wald. He revealed some facts about the nuclear arms race. “Hydrogen warheads are being produced in this country at the rate of three per day; we are told that our security lies in Mutual Assured Destruction—MAD. It’s well named.” Wald said that we are the only creatures of our kind in the cosmos. “For just as every living organism is different from itself moment to moment, we are the only human beings in the universe.”

Perhaps most interesting were Wald’s views on his personal religion. “I don’t see any reason to look for a supernatural when we haven’t even begun to scratch the surface of the nature around us.” Wald reads the Bible, however. “Those are my roots,” he said. “Look at Lincoln and his Gettysburg Address; that was King James Bible talk. Our society has lost the love of life that you find in there.” According to Wald, that love is what we desperately need to recover.

FAD COMPONENTS, COLLEGE CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE
Needed to sell Brand Name Stereo Components to Students at lowest prices. Hi Commission, NO Investment required. Serious Inquiries ONLY!
INC. 20 Passaic Ave.
Fairfield, New Jersey 07006
JERRY DIAMOND
201-227-6814