6 The Davidsonian March 26, 1976

Boyce attacks ‘simplistic rhetoric’
By RICHARD BOYCE
Editorial Page Editor

“We have been sold out!” a frizzy-haired student shouts from the back row.
“We have been raped!” bellows a strangely similar figure. “We have been gagged, stifled, extorted, cheated, betrayed, castrated, and....” Anybody want to throw in a few personal epithets?

“What’s all the hubbub?” inquires a glazed student, surfacing momentarily from a nine-month fast in the basement of the library.
“Why don’t you know?” gasps the startled SGA crusader, a hungry look of non-recognition pervading his aging face. “We have just lost our freedom of speech. The administration and their student henchmen have compromised us out of our First Amendment--guaranteed right to say what we please. Ah, we are doomed to oblivion. We are mere mouthpieces in the hands of those who would keep us down. We are mere trumpets at the mouths of those who would destroy us. Mere cymbals in the grasp...”

Cut! This dialogue is ridiculously inane. Non-existent dialogue is far from non-existent. Recently The Davidsonian has boasted a minimum of one by-line per issue having to do with the elusive, but on-going developments in the struggle over the rights of Davidson's student media. Unfortunately, the ensuing articles are, at least, petty instances of name-calling and soapbox rhetoric or, at most, listings of so many committees, sub-committees, letters, dates, votes, etc. that the confused reader quickly learns to skip over all such articles in the future.

It is unfortunate that every such issue must serve as a means of individual glorification. But, it is even more unfortunate that so many students are thereby turned off to a particular issue which should truly be of their concern.

The current clash over who controls student media is a classic example of what sounds good in theory (and is thereby easy to defend to an uninformed public) and what will work (and is thereby difficult to defend to an uninformed public). Of course, a student should possess an outlet for venting his opinions. But what form will this vent take? Who will control its size and, if needed, its filters? Who will pay the money for its installation and continuing maintenance? Who's to blame if it malfunctions and causes someone or something damage?

Difficult issue
That this issue was a difficult one explains why the Governance Committee formed a sub-committee specifically to deal with the question of control. While the tags really never fit, the “liberals” on this committee became those who pushed for unqualified student control of their own publications. The “conservatives,” then, were those who harped on such things as the college’s legal vulnerability concerning publications they funded, but over

Adolescent college
Liken the college to an adolescent, expecting full development soon but spending his/her time at present worrying about complexion problems. As the college grows up toward its sesquicentennial coming of age, it expects to have a new fieldhouse and more importantly a new visual arts center. It is currently concerned with preserving a popular graphics competition, The Davidson National, and with finding a coach to lead the basketball team to prominence. The adolescent college doesn’t yet have a place to hang these trappings but it frets over them nevertheless, confident that someday is not so far away.

The whole college, administration, faculty, staff, students, and friends, is wrapped up in protecting its appearance and in trying to cover up with cosmetics the things that are not there. These things, the new fieldhouse and art facility will come but it takes time because it takes money and money must be raised. The college needs new facilities and, like an adolescent, will not be able to glory in immediate cosmetic improvements until it has some place to put them. Everybody wants to have the largest show of graphics in the country and everyone wants to finish strongly in post-season basketball tournaments. When any portion of the college begins to believe that these goals are the primary ones then the whole college suffers. If full emphasis is placed on cosmetics then there is only lip service left for what must be there underneath.

the davidsonian
Matthew Covington.......... Managing Editor
Richard Boyce................. Editorial Page Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall... News Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis... Sports Editors
David Hood.................... Features Editors
Business Manager
Photography Editor
Production Manager
Advertising Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.which they had no control. The "conservatives" accused the "liberals" of being insensitive to "real world" complications. The "liberals" accused the "conservatives" of couching their desire to maintain "image" in terms such as "legal responsibility for libel." It is a shame that the problem is not as simplistic as such labels tend to imply. It is also a shame that any movement away from such dualities is branded with the label, "compromise."

The problem would be greatly simplified if student publications were owned and operated by the same outfit. This might be achieved in two ways: 1) the publication could serve merely as a mouthpiece for its owner, as is the case with the Davidson Update, or 2) the publication could be independent both in funds and operation, as is the case with the Charlotte Observer.

Unfortunate difficulties

However, both, unfortunately, present difficulties. The first is ineffectual as a vent for criticism. The second remains virtually impossible for a small-scale operation. The middle ground takes a form similar to that of the Davidson student media. The majority of the funds for the support of The Miscellany, The Davidsonian, and Quips and Cranks come, at least immediately, from the college. But, the management of these publications consists of student-elected officers. Such a set-up is dandy, until a libelous statement is made or an offensive organ exposed. Then a question of control arises.

If the college is ruled publisher, due, for example, to its financial support of the publication, it does indeed stand vulnerable to financial loss through fines or damages for libel, pornography, or invasion of privacy. The question then becomes, "Is it possible for the publication to receive funds for its support, but be considered its own publisher?" Such a set-up would avoid the admittedly unrealistic situation of an institution supporting a potentially deleterious organization over which it has absolutely no control.

The only feasible solution, although an admittedly complicated one, appears to be some sort of incorporation of all the student publications. Once incorporated, these organizations could contract deals with the college such as: "You give me X dollars; I'll give you Y papers." The purpose of such an apparently superficial change is that it would transfer any legal blame from college administrator to student corporation. The college could then suffer no damages from the publication’s contents except the perhaps deserved criticisms of its policies. Such "damages," as with any free exchange of ideas, are only harmful if ignored or stifled without consideration.

The problem with this solution is its technical bulk. "Why," the student implores, "can’t we just be free?" The reason the student "can’t just be free" is that "freedom," as any Humanities student knows, is inherently a very complex word. While the individual penning his invectives has more Romantic appeal than the corporation drawing up contracts, the latter has at least a touch of realistic viability.

Cries of surrender

Admittedly, cries of surrender are somewhat justified. Such a set-up is indeed a system of "give." But, it is also one of "take." Davidson College, if it is truly committed to the freedom to which it aspires in its Statement of Purpose, must give up any notion of manipulating publications to maintain a trustee-dictated image. By so doing, it may take on an image of an institution dedicated to protect the basic rights due its members.

Give up

The Davidson student must, in turn, give up any notion of he or she operating completely independently of the private institution which he or she has joined. By so doing, he or she may take on the responsible freedom of completely managing his/her self-directed organizations while recognizing the legal, if not moral impact of his/her actions.

As long as students and faculty alike continue to see the media issue as an opportunity for self-aggrandizement through simplistic rhetoric, then the proposed solution cannot avoid being a surrender or defeat for not one side or the other, but both. As long as the issue is viewed as a power struggle between the establishment-minded administration and the idealistic-minded student body, any solution is doomed to endless thrashing in equally endless committees.

Question of rights

The question of media rights in a private institution is, fortunately, not a matter of either/or. Once one admits both the reality of libel and the possibility of cooperation, the venture can eventually become a matter of both/and. The college needs a medium for exchange and growth. This medium of exchange and growth likewise needs the college for its sustenance. Anybody can throw out a few choice epithets. It takes much more to work out a viable and productive solution.

"Why can’t we be free?" Perhaps, we can. But the path lies not through rhetorical bawling, but consistently conscientious work.