March 12, 1976

the davidsonian

FIRST DOUBLES TEAM Stu Boswell and Chip Bondurant volley during Wednesday’s 8-1 crushing of Purdue.

-Pete Goodman

1.

Netters open season 2-0-1, follow demanding schedule

By BILL HAWK
Staff Writer

The varsity tennis team started its season this week with two big victories, a tie, and a promise of great things to come.

The Cats were scheduled to play six home matches on six consecutive days starting Monday. As all of those who follow tennis can attest, that schedule by itself would be extremely hard on the players without any help from mother nature.

Monday’s match was played under threatening skies and between a few scattered raindrops, but the weather had no apparent effect on the Davidson squad as they served, volleyed, and generally scrambled to a 9-0 victory over West Chester State, a Pennsylvania team.

The Cats demonstrated not only strength, fitness, and skill but poise as four of the matches were carried into and won in the third set.

Tuesday the squad was scheduled to play Purdue but nature intervened in the form of rain to postpone the match till Wednesday morning.

Blue Ribbon

BE:

It takes the best to challenge all the rest.

Pabst. Since 1844. The quality has always come through.

PABST BREWING COMPANY, Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, Ill., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst; Georgia.

The Cats did not shut out Purdue but they came close as Gil Kayton, a freshman playing the number six position, suffered the only loss for the team.

Wednesday afternoon saw the team facing yet another and stronger opponent. In the morning the Cats returned to the court to challenge Indiana State at 2:00 pm after playing Purdue in the morning.

Mike Barnhill, John Mitchel, Gil Kayton, and Brian Cooper played tough singles matches to win at the numbers 2, 3, 5, and 6 positions respectively.

Chip Bondurant lost in two sets at the number 1 position (he had already played six sets of tennis that morning) and Steve Holman lost in the tiebreaker of the third set to finish out the singles.

The Indiana State squad proved to have very strong doubles teams as both their numbers 2 and 3 teams won in two sets to tie the match score at 4-4.

Meanwhile, Chip Bondurant and Stewart Boswell were winning the second set of their doubles match after having dropped the first.

Midway through the third set, the match was finally called because of darkness.

The Indiana State team opted to travel on to Wake Forest Wednesday night rather than stay at Davidson and finish the match in the morning.

The final score of the match was 4-4, leaving the Davidson team with a 2-0-1 record.

Thursday the team plays Swarthmore in a match which Coach Jeff Frank expects to be the toughest of the week. Friday the team will host William and Mary in the first conference match of the season.

Saturday sees the Cats play their sixth and final match of the week against Rochester.

Coach Frank pointed out that the team is a very young team (only one senior and one junior) and will probably show marked improvement as the season progresses.

Individual matches which went into three sets this week might well be won in two if played at a later date, according to Frank.

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”

HOURS:
10 AM-5:30 PM DAILY
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503