May 7, 1976

Letters to the Editor

KA’s defend piety & ‘gracious living’

To the Editor:

I seldom look for a public platform to express my views, but I feel that something very dear to me
is under unjustified attack. I refer to the Kappa Alpha Order. There seems to be a misunderstanding as to what
the KA fraternity stands for, which is causing some animosity. I hope what I have to say will ameliorate the
situation.

The Kappa Alpha Order is founded on the principles of protecting the weak, supporting the righteous, and defending the honor
of ladies, with an ever-conscious sense of piety. These principles, collated in the idea of chivalry, were to be preserved
as the essential aspects of the southern heritage by the founders of the Order in 1865 at Washington College. KA
is a southern fraternity in this sense, but I do not feel that one needs to be a Southerner, or
a KA, to support our ideals.

The KA’s have a national tradition, called Old South, to underline the principles of the Order. In antebellum costume, the
fraternity reemphasizes those ideals of our southern heritage which we wish to perpetuate. In that sense, the event is a
success. Old South is a very elaborate event, appropriate for having fun, and not for accurately reconstructing the unsavory aspects
of the time. The Old South on many campuses is an annual springtime spectacle. It is a week when the
whole community is invited to relive the beauty of another era, and hopefully, when the beauty of the community itself
is enhanced by people conspicuously devoted to chivalry and gracious living.

The Davidsonian would have us believe that the Davidson chapter of Kappa Alpha failed in these goals for its Old
South, and instead, conspicuously degraded fellow students. I hope I am right in believing that the Davidsonian is the only
insensitive party, and that future Old Souths are enjoyed by all.

Tom Wood '76
Davidson College

---

Southern tan

To the Editor:

It is particularly unfortunate that some of the members of the student body lack the natural ability to tan properly
without the assistance of bootblack or mascara. Someone should also inform them of the fact that the strength of the
rays of moonlight are not sufficient to provide the tan either. The proper attire for tanning usually includes wearing acceptable
beachwear rather than briefs. One could catch one’s death, in some places, because of indecent exposure. And besides, if you
are mistaken for being black at the same time, you could be in double jeopardy.

Bernard Holloway '76
Davidson College

P.S. It comes as a surprise to me that real Southern Gentlemen should behave in such a manner anyway!

---

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.

---

Imitation squelches creativity

To the Editor:

Just as I am learning new names and relationships for things at Davidson I am also learning new patterns of
motivation here also. Whereas the former are very rational the latter seems absurd in light of what I learn rationally.
There are some things that motivate me tremendously. I can...easily find time to attend parties, concerts, movies and even protest
schedule changes. Other things are difficult to get motivated for. I just can’t seem to find that one or two
hours a week to go to a Y discussion group, or work in the community center or with the scouts,
or to visit an old person, a prisoner, or a poor kid. Likewise, I find it hard to memorize formulas
or detailed names and facts until test time draws near. It seems to me that there must be some rather
basic reason for such motivational irrationality. The only reason I could come up with was the irrational way in which
we pursue our primary purpose here at Davidson, which is education. It is rare to get much credit for creativity
here because creativity is not often complete without time and group participation in the creative act. As a result, we
almost always learn by perhaps the only other method we can, which is through imitation. Our models to imitate are
professors. Professors lecture and write on the board; students copy and return appropriate information at the appropriate time. Professors spend
much time and effort in preparing and teaching courses; students spend much time in preparing for tests, reading, and memorizing
course material which is usually pre-organized. Professors complain about having to work over Easter; students complain about having to come
back from vacation on Monday. Professors over-schedule their time; so do students. Professors are displeased over pay and benefits; students
are displeased about rising tuition and lack of educational freedom. Professors think profound thoughts about the world; students think profound
thoughts about education. Professors spend thousands of dollars purchasing elaborate homes that fit the American ideal; students spend thousands of
dollars purchasing elaborate entertainment. Imitation seems to lie at the heart of almost everything I have learned and am still
learning here, academically or otherwise. Whether it remains my sole guide for the rest of my life or not depends,
it seems, on what I do and how I direct my life now. Imitation must have been very adaptive for
our hunting-gathering, small group-oriented ancestors, but it is proving terribly maladaptive for us in the modern world. It is true
that some of our models altruistically sacrifice their psyche and even their health in attempting to improve some of the
absurd and unjust situations that are all around; and it is also true that some students sacrifice their future and
careers by leaving Davidson rather than losing their integrity or creativity by following the narrow mandates of the school. Education
needs to replace or at least largely complement simple imitation with something else. Whatever that something else is, it is
going to have to be very basic, highly flexible, and support individual integrity at every level and step of learning.
Unfortunately, there are no models of such a system detailed enough to be imitated, if it could be. It is
going to have to be created.

Wayne B. Jonas '77
Davidson College

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

PIZZA, INC.
First Union National
Davidson
