Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

November 5, 1976 happens. This column was originally intended to discuss the workings of the SGA Senate this year. Rather
than giving a week-by-week account of Senate activities, October events will be presented as a whole. The purpose of the
Student Government Association is serving as a mediator between the students and the college’s faculty and administration, primarily in an
advisory capacity. These people include: President, Bo Baskin; Vice President, Steve Cuffe; Seniors, Tony Snow, Joe Logan, Jim Clark, Carol
Connor, Lynne Keener, Dana English; Juniors, Will Miller, Rick Rauck, David Tinkler, Clark Candler, Phil Caine, Kevin Taylor; Sophomores, Guy
DiCenzo, Bruce Brown, Ralph Yielding, Lynn Langley, Percy Badham, Randy Haynes, Hans Watford, Carter Todd, Sam Crawford; Freshmen, Bob Lapple,
Bill Peeples, John Stiefel, Rob Holson, Taine Alison, Nancy Catron.

Tony Snow and Steve Cuffe are the co-chairmen of the Communications Committee mentioned previously and also deal with WDAV and
The Davidsonian, the two most important institutions on campus. Perhaps the most thrilling episode (if one can call it that)
in the SGA last month was a question-and-answer session with H. Edmunds White, the Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid,
on October 18. Mr. White made an address to rebut and clarify the information presented in The Davidsonian the week
prior to the meeting. He explained that in the previous two school years, the optimum number of students had not
been reached.

Davidson College is designed to be a marketplace for ideas. Toward this goal, it is important that the college provide
its students with a situation in which a number of different ideas can flourish. Much lip service has been paid
to diversifying the student body, to increasing the value of the Davidson Experience by admitting students from many different backgrounds
and with different ideas. The Student Recruiters program to be implemented this Thanksgiving break by the Admissions Office is a
significant step toward realizing a more diverse student body. It correctly identifies a need and provides a system by which
the need can be filled. The question we ask is: As we have perhaps arrived at a method of admitting
more and better students from different backgrounds, are we not now responsible for carefully eying the school we intend to
admit them to?

Davidson College has one black professor. Though having been co-educational for four full years, the college is only beginning to
awaken to the various athletic, medical, and social needs of its women. There has been little significant change in the
last ten years, and almost no change since the end of the Vietnam War. The policy of Christian Tenure, often
maligned but steadfastly held to, protects only those professors who are actively affiliated with a Christian church. The president of
the college is always a Presbyterian. Black Week at Davidson, supposedly a week of presentations dedicated to the preservation of
black culture here, is characteristically a time for blacks who have been successful on lecture tours to white audiences to
make one more stop and say the same things. These elements of the college serve to stifle some of the
possibilities for exchanging ideas. In too many cases the (see POSSIBILITIES, page 6)

---

The Davidsonian
Editor: Matidow Covington
Business Manager: [Name not provided]
Photography Editor: [Name not provided]
Production Manager: [Name not provided]
Editorial Page Editor: Cathy Landis & Dave Keller
Executive Editors: Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall
Sports Editors: [Names not provided]
Assistant News Editors: [Names not provided]
Advertising Manager: [Name not provided]
Circulation Manager: [Name not provided]Weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

The curriculum has undergone very significant changes. The all-new Communications Program is the SGA’s “Consumer Action Group,” treating all students
as consumers of a college education. With a comprehensive fee of $4,390.00, the SGA feels that Davidson students have a
right to their money’s worth, and this new program is designed to help ensure just that. Operating in three-week cycles,
Senators will attempt to visit their constituents once every three weeks, record complaints, refer to standing committees, and return solutions
or suggestions to the students at the end of each three-week period.

Committee Looks For Solutions

The problems facing the four subcommittees are significant. They seek to solve the complications created by the admission of three
hundred additional students per annum. At present, the Housing subcommittee is investigating new sources of off-campus housing while still reserving
sufficient dormitory space for all students who desire a dormitory room. The Eating subcommittee is currently going through various administrative
channels to open Rusk House next year as a Patterson Court eating house. The Athletics committee, chaired by Kevin Taylor
and Bruce Brown, is working in conjunction with the Athletics department to find reasonable solutions to difficulties in Club sports,
gym use, and check-out of athletic equipment.

The Committee for Faculty Evaluation by Students is self-explanatory in title. It seeks to aid the administration in improving and
maintaining the high quality of the Davidson faculty, and it is chaired by Carol Connor and Joe Logan. The Educational
Program Development committee, headed by Dave Tinkler and Phil Caine, is similar to the Faculty Evaluation Committee, only it is
not limited to evaluating instructors. Welcoming suggestions from all students, this committee hopes to work with the faculty for better
classroom experiences and other improvements.

To avoid under-enrollment for the 1976-77 school year, White accepted more men and women than usual, hoping to attain this
year’s optimum number of 110 women and 280 men. Instead, more candidates responded than anticipated. Because they sent in admissions
deposits before or soon after the deadline, they were accepted rather than turned away, resulting in the opening of Julia
Johnson House for freshmen men and the placement of four freshmen women on Second Little. The statement made by Director
of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls that he arbitrarily over-admitted these students because of superior qualifications was claimed to be false.
White made the following statement in response to questioning: 1) the number of students to be admitted annually is determined
by the President and the Board of Trustees, not the Admissions Office; 2) there is some interoffice communication between Admissions
and Housing, but it lacks formal impact; 3) the optimum numbers for this year’s freshman class would have been in
accordance with the number of on-campus housing spaces available; 4) college finances suffer when every available housing unit is not
in use, for tuition inflow is not stable nor is it at a maximum when units are unoccupied; 5) by
expanding from 1000 to 1300 students, the college does not increase net revenue, for college endowment remains fixed and must
be spread thin to cover the needs of additional students.

At the November 1 meeting, the SGA approved the expenditure of approximately $180.00 to purchase new response sheets for the
Communications Program. A motion was carried granting approval to a system of selecting members to the Media Board. A proposal
submitted by Hans Watford and Percy Badham provides for the choosing of the student members who will be represented on
the Board. Finally, the SGA announced publicly this week that it supports the Extended Studies Program, which is currently in
danger of being canceled by the Educational Policy committee headed by Dr. Frontis Johnston. The SGA urges the student body
to support this program, also, as explained in detail in Volume One, Number Two of the SGA Newsletter.
