March 19, 1976

where

are you?

-Leon Venable

Leon Venable

Poetry Fair transcends language

By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

It shouldn’t have worked—but it was a major success. A multi-lingual poetry reading lasting for over three hours on a weeknight, and it went without a hitch. Davidson audiences typically lunge for the door at the first hint of a break, but nearly all of the capacity-plus crowd at the 900 Room stayed last night, and they were definitely rewarded.

The quick movement from times and languages created an air of spontaneity, and, for me, it was the greatest lesson in the universality of artistic expression I’ve ever had. The lesson was beautifully implicit in the program—any attempt at division by time or language would have brought on a stifling feeling which this reading consistently avoided.

A comprehensive review is impossible; all one can hope to do is to remember some highlights of a program which never dragged. One such highlight was Dr. Charles Dockery’s reading of “Satchmo,” a French poem by Guy Tirolien in honor, obviously, of Louis Armstrong. Dockery’s verve and feeling were always evident, and when combined with an original piece by Todd Sahlroot on trumpet, it got the audience excited about a poem most of us couldn’t read. Also accompanying on “Satchmo” (and many other poems) was Jurgen Sottung on guitar. In addition to his varied and skillful work on guitar, his understated reading of Rainer Maria Rilke’s “The Panther” ranked (along with Dr. Charles Lloyd’s medieval Irish readings) as one of the most successful poems of the evening.

A state approaching real suspension of language was reached through Dr. Dirk French’s and Bill Rolland’s Vedic Sanskrit chant. The nice words won't do to describe it. It just plain grabbed you and held you in amazement at the simplicity of melody and intricacy of rhythm. Several of the Japanese readings by Hisako Shingu had the same effect—you had to listen and you wished for even one more verse.

Maybe I just don’t know what I’m talking about, but I couldn’t find serious fault with anything in the program. I would say that short poems which can be emotionally experienced more easily on first hearing succeeded better than longer ones. The extended concentration necessary for listening to longer poems was difficult to maintain when dealing with another language.

This week’s Poetry Fair demonstrated convincingly the belief of organizer and guiding spirit Amelia Dockery: even if we don’t know the literal meaning of a poem, there is much we can sense about it and the reader by giving it a careful, sensitive listening.

Friday, March 19, 1976

10 am Dr. Dayton H. Clewell—Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow
2 pm Open End—Dr. Dayton H. Clewell
3 pm Appointments with Dr. Clewell—Morrison Room
3 pm Tennis: Central Michigan Univ.—Davidson
3:30 pm Demonstration Class for Ars Antigua de Paris—Love Auditorium
4 pm Dr. Dayton H. Clewell—Conversation Pit
8:15 pm Artist Series: Ars Antigua de Paris—Love Auditorium

Saturday, March 20, 1976

1 pm Tennis: Dartmouth—Davidson
1 pm Baseball: East Carolina—Greenville, S.C.
1 pm Track: Lynchburg College—Davidson
2 pm Rugby: Charlotte—Davidson
Sailing: Virginia—Charlottesville, Va.
10:30 pm “Profs in a Night of Song”—900 Room

Sunday, March 21, 1976

2 pm Fifth Annual Davidson National
3 pm College Republicans State Convention and Executive Committee Meeting
6 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Meeting
8 pm Interorganizational Forum Meeting

Monday, March 22, 1976

All Day Fifth Annual Davidson National
All Day Interviews: U.S. Navy
2 pm Tennis: East Stroudsburg
3 pm Baseball: Fairfield
8:15 pm Chamber Music Series: Robert Guralnik—Pianist

Tuesday, March 23, 1976

All Day Fifth Annual Davidson National
All Day Interviews: U.S. Navy
10 am Rabbi Richard Brown speaks on Jewish-Christian Issues
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer
1 pm Track: Wake Forest and High Point
2 pm Tennis: Amherst
2:30 pm Women’s JV Tennis: Charlotte Latin
3 pm Baseball: Fairfield
7 pm Worship Service
7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Safety Course
8 pm Humanities 123 Film: “Over There”

Wednesday, March 24, 1976

All Day Fifth Annual Davidson National
All Day Interviews: U.S. Navy
10 am Interorganizational Forum Meeting
3 pm Baseball: Appalachian State Univ.
4 pm Films: “Festival Japan” and “Kyoto, Ancient Capital of Japan”
8 pm “The Last Laugh”

Thursday, March 25, 1976

All Day Fifth Annual Davidson National
1 pm Golf: Furman Invitational
2 pm Women’s Tennis: Wake Forest