October 1, 1976

the davidsonian

... CONnfide in ice in Marshall's ability

[Continued from page 1]
Bonnie Wright), Marshall will have to take over without any prior experience.

Both Baskin and Crawford expressed confidence that Peyton Marshall will be able to overcome these initial difficulties, saying that Marshall is “extremely bright, well-respected and articulate.”

Marshall labelled educational values “one of my chief interests.” He said that he is “interested in thinking further about them and trying to see some of them put into action at Davidson, where the opportunity to pursue particular academic interests has been vital in the development of some of my ideas.”

The question has been raised, by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Chairman of the EPC, that it may have been inappropriate for the SGA to appoint Marshall to the committee. He pointed out that the EPC By-Laws provide for only one student representative, with the provision that another could be added if the committee decided that was in its best interest.

Baskin responded by saying that he was well aware of this provision in the By-Laws, but that there have always been two students on the committee. “We’re going to presume we can have two and if they want to tell us otherwise that’s fine,” said Baskin.

... Hall explains elements of student frustrations —

[Continued from page 1]

hang on to, but at Davidson people somehow get locked in.”

Another main observation Hall mentioned was the quality of the professor-student relationships. “Students don’t seem to be able to relate to their professors on a personal level. This is very disappointing because Davidson seems like the type of place which could and should be a very close caring community,” said Hall.

Instead, there is a fierce competitive atmosphere. He also expressed his deep disappointment that so many really sensitive people leave Davidson not because they aren’t intelligent enough to do the work but because no one seems to care about them as people.

[Next week: Student views on frustrations]

Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities

1. Preamble. The College is committed to the proposition that the student wishes to learn and must thus be provided with the resources, the guidance, and the freedom to do so. Within this context, all members of the College share responsibility for securing and respecting conditions conducive to the freedom to learn; all must endeavor to exercise the freedoms of the academy with maturity and responsibility. All recognize that members of any institution are subject to its regulations as a condition of membership.

(Continued on page twelve)

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

Aside from the students and Dr. Johnston, there are six faculty members on the committee with rotating three-year terms. Three are elected at large and three are chosen by the individual departments.

The purpose of the EPC, according to Sam Crawford, is “to take up issues from the faculty and the president, evaluate them, and then pass them on to the faculty for their judgment.”

[Continued from page 1]

experiences they have had during their stay in The People’s Republic of China. Dr. Dimond, a medical doctor and professor at the University of Missouri School of Medicine, will speak Tuesday at 10 am on “Medical Education.”

Dr. Dimond will speak Tuesday afternoon on “World Federation with Focus on China.”

Dr. Dimond will speak Tuesday evening on “More than Herbs and Acupuncture: Medicine in China.” The subject of this talk is also the subject for Dimond’s most recent book. It analyzes the turn of a new, modern China on the world scene.

The Dimonds both approach the problem of educating the American people about China from the standpoint that such knowledge is important to

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

U. S. Navy seeks math, physics and science-related majors for specialized Officer Programs. See the U. S. Navy Officer Information Team on campus October 4, 1976 or call collect (919) 872-2547. Interested persons please register with the Placement Office.

LT JOHN GORDON
P. O. Box 18568
Raleigh, NC 27609
(919) 872-2547

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary