March 19, 1976
The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor

D. Peeples lambasts disgusting apathy

To the Editor:

This is a diatribe, pure and simple. I make no pretense of objectivity. It will be full of innuendo, hearsay,
and highly personal judgments. But here goes.

The attitude of the students and faculty toward the recent Energy Symposium was amazing. When several of the most influential
men in the field of energy resources are gathered in open forum, and no more than 100-200 persons show up,
I must admit that we have very successfully recaptured that sterile complacency attributed to the fifties. I have been told
(here’s the innuendo) that not only did many professors not encourage attendance, some actually discouraged it. I find this all
too credible—during the first session of the day several professors sat in the lounge across from Love, engrossed in the
pressing duties of drinking coffee and making idle conversation.

The students (who were hit with a flood of publicity unparalleled this year) passed it up, pleading that they had
too much to do. I'll buy that. It must be true, because I hear it every day from everybody. One
major complaint was that the symposium was “stacked.” So what? One purpose of getting the corporate big shots in open
forum was so that students and faculty could ask some good, tough questions concerning price and availability of fuel, and
get answers from people who are in decision-making positions.

One panel member was the VP in charge of rates for Transco Pipe Line, the sole supplier of gas and
oil to this state. Why weren’t you out there griping? The exec. VP of Duke Power was here. Are you
happy with your electric bills? Doesn’t the thought of a nuclear power reactor within ten miles of here bother you
at all? The head of marketing for Exxon was here. Do you like footing the bill for those slick, self-serving
commercials every time you visit the gas pumps? Later in the day we had Frank Zarb, the man who calls
the shots in Federal energy policy. Are you all that satisfied with government action on energy matters that you didn’t
care to ask questions? Does the thought of oil price deregulation leave you with a good feeling of faith in
the wise benevolence of the big companies? (It may leave you with a cold feeling in the next few winters.)

The absurdity of the stacked complaint overwhelms me. Not only did you have a shot at these people but we
should remember that these are the knowledgeable men. Are we only going to listen to those who will reinforce what
we want to believe? What ever happened to exposure to different ideas?

“Why not postpone the execution, Your Honor... at least until after Spring Frolics...”

Hummel & Goodhouse defend Easter Frolics

To: Phillip Gladden and David Yandle, ’78, c/o Editor:

We are writing in response to your comments about the need for the rescheduling of Spring Frolics weekend, due to
the fact that it has been set for Easter weekend. Allow us to point out several facts which need to
be considered:

First, there was much “soul-searching” done over the moral/religious aspects of scheduling Spring Frolics on Easter, by many people. DC
students don’t seem to realize how much thought and time are put into planning things for you. You did recognize
the reasons that weekend was settled upon (i.e., conflicts on other weekends). Let us point out several things you failed
to recognize, however.

Easter weekend is not a holiday, but rather a reminder for Christians of Christ's sacrifice for their salvation. It seems
to us that to a true Christian, every Sunday would be “Easter,” not just once a year. How could the
true Christian have Spring Frolics on any weekend that has a Sunday, as all obviously do? Once again, we’re not
all atheists here in the Union. We do take Davidson’s “Christian commitment” into mind when we make decisions. Where are
all the letters complaining or questioning classes on Good Friday?

Terry Hummel, ’77
Karl Goodhouse, ’77If our own faculty won’t avail themselves of the people brought in regardless of their views, how can
we expect them to teach with authority and in full knowledge of all sides of the issue? (Sounds a little
like Christian tenure, doesn’t it?) And how can we expect the students to take an interest in the issue when
the faculty doesn’t care? Well, my vitriol is running low, so I’ll wind this down. I honestly appreciate the hard
work and cooperation of the few faculty and students who did participate. (I don’t include everyone in my generalizations.) I
have just one request. After witnessing the disgusting apathy of students and faculty toward one of the most pressing problems
of the decade, I don’t ever want to hear that liberal arts lip service to education crap again.

Steve Peeples '77
Davidson College

Changes in St. Anne’s declared detrimental

To the Editor:

It came to my attention recently at a meeting of the Educational Policy Committee that the St. Anne’s program in
Oxford, England has been dramatically restructured for the coming summer. The changes made, it should be noted, contradicted the consensus
opinion on all counts of the returning Davidson students who participated in the program last summer—myself included. Briefly, the changes
include the withdrawal of the Davidson program from the Exeter lecture series, which is the program of the Oxford International
Summer School, and substituting for it a lecture program designed by Davidson. The second change is that the number of
lectures will be reduced from 60 to 20. The third change is that the period formerly studied, from 1870 to
the present, will be replaced with the study of the Tudor period, that is the 16th and 17th centuries. The
fourth change is that the price of the program will be raised.

I would like to congratulate the Administration on not only wrecking one of the most consistently successful foreign study programs,
both in terms of student participation and evaluation, but also at the same time managing to charge more for services
rendered. Yet I am told that it is not the Administration’s fault but that the changes were initiated by the
Mary Baldwin administrators unilaterally. (Although the program is a joint venture between the two colleges, Davidson usually contributes at least
70 percent of the participants.) While there may be a degree of truth in this, it is also a fact
that the Mary Baldwin people thought they were proceeding with full Davidson support. Now the Administration says that Mary Baldwin
misunderstood and that we simply wanted a “review” of the program. Yet in any case, the whole episode reflects only
a high degree of bureaucratic ineptitude by an administration that cannot even communicate its messages clearly or exercise proper oversight
over such “reviews.”

There is, of course, only one loser in all this and that is the student participant. I would like to
reiterate that all these changes were discussed with the participants in this past summer’s St. Anne’s program upon their return
in the fall. The overwhelming opinion strongly objected to these changes which at the time were mentioned as “other possibilities.”
As a recent participant in the “former” St. Anne’s program, I have chosen to voice as strong a protest to
these changes as possible. (Writing this letter narrowly won out over throwing a box of eggs at the President’s mansion
in a fit of rage.) The Administration says that it cannot do anything about the current summer program because the
arrangements have progressed beyond recall. Yet it can do something about the program after this summer if it chooses to
do so. I urge that the Administration surfaces behind its wall of bureaucratic explanations and self-righteous attitudes, admit that perhaps
someone made a mistake somewhere, and reinstate the St. Anne’s program that for years has been one of Davidson’s most
successful foreign study programs.

Robert H. Husbands ’76
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
