? October 8, 1976

The Davidsonian

To compensate for minority benefit from the experience, it’s efforts, his raising the pool of le‘is also working lacks to visit the Davidson’s name counselors, and very black applicants in as and Georgia. It points out that these responsibilities are not technically institutional except insofar as allowed by the delineation of commitment, concentration on increasing the number of black applicants. The core of the course of action is progressive. The Admissions Office rages of the past that of the blacks more than a whopping 35 more than half were accepted, slightly initially enrolled. This compares with the percentage for all accepted students.

Recruiters’ efforts and hopes seem immediate and viciously reflected in the low number of accepted blacks who recruitment of these is active. Terry concurs that Davidson competes with the likes of a, and Duke for the eminently qualified. The problem seems reduced to an enigma wherein very few blacks and many of those who particularly pleasant. Reasons seem sufficient for prospective black students applying in the first place. Those who do apply and are deciding on Davidson schools where their more congenial one. The situation seems to cause its own black experience at something less than a far deeper than disaffection displays as Kappa unhinged Old anemic attendance Black Week. Indeed, Carter’s obviously in, he feels justified in a symptom and a raise at Davidson an intense feeling of not belonging to the greater whole. This seems largely due to a feeling many blacks have of being used by the College to keep up its appearance as a liberal and progressive institution. Darlene Cunningham believes “Davidson will always be a nice old high-standard school for WASPS. They bring in a few international students; likewise, they bring in a few blacks. They use us and yet they think they’re doing us a great favor.” Although Billy Hutchinson feels one “must accept the situation and work with it,” he believes “the school is following its priorities: it’s an upper-class institution and there just aren’t that many upper-class blacks.” Hudson underscores the utilitarian nature of the College’s relations toward blacks. Says he, “Sometimes I feel like I’m here to educate rather than be educated.”

Many blacks looked hopefully to the community of Davidson as a pool for friends with common interests. Many had their hopes extinguished by what Darlene describes as “a walling out of the community on the part of the College. They’re willing to allow the members of the community to clean the floors but pressure them to stay out otherwise. It’s an identity crisis: there are barriers between us and the community, between us and the students, between us and Davidson College.” One need be no mental giant to realize that the paucity of friends with common interests, the College’s supposed exclusion of such friends, and

By ROGER BROWN
Staff Writer

With sparkling eyes and thoughts of good nutrition, the Davidson student aspires for the ultimate in A.M. dining; disappointingly, he usually settles for Slater. Lest he become despondent from morning monotony, this week’s focus is on suitably satiating establishments for the breakfast set, primarily the two close enough to campus to be practical.

Unpretentiously nestled between the downtown sectors of Davidson and Cornelius is this area’s preeminent morning diner—The Bunn Warmer. Being the result of years of metamorphosis, the modern-day Bunn Warmer evolved from the fertile seed of Albert’s Grill, est. 1957; two ladies, mother and daughter, run it now. In the words of a regular at the “BW” (as it is effectively called), “This place has been here since that lady was her daughter’s age.” The Bunn Warmer is a “home kitchen,” in the words of its proprietors, with more than just good food—the open conversation is nourishment for the soul. Subjects range from mean husbands to political debates. I asked, “What do you talk about when you're here?” Quickly came the reply, “The people who aren’t here.”

The specialty of the grill is thick pancakes. These luscious flapjacks are known for their high syrup absorption coefficient which guarantees satisfaction of a working man’s appetite. Favorites also include scrambled eggs with cheese and the ever-rare liver mush. Toast, jam, and grits are served with the breakfast plates, and of course milk, juice, and coffee are available for those with a high liquid preference. Opening at 6:30 am, the cozy counter-top style stool service furthers the intimacy of your dining experience.The Bunn Warmer is located about fifty yards to the Davidson side and across the street. The feeling of being used by the College should engender something short of ideal adjustment on the part of black students. Add to these factors social opportunities so insufficiently geared to blacks’ interests and tastes that Hudson is moved to declare, “The big problem with being black at Davidson is the social life,” and the picture becomes all the bleaker. Truly, the absence of a sense of belonging many blacks experience is as serious as it is lamentable. Sadly, what is even worse than the feeling of not being a part is the insouciance this feeling and stifled efforts to eliminate it beget. Hudson could recall “no real successes in over three years.” He characterized many blacks’ attitudes by “malaise and apathy... maybe it’s hopelessness.” Darlene also cited “the hopelessness which has arisen from unsuccessful efforts,” and highlighted the tragicomic nature of the situation in saying, “It gets to the point where you can’t let prejudice bother you.” In short, there seems to be among many blacks a feeling of literally doing time at Davidson. Many feel they’ve been admitted to the College to keep up its appearances and then not given the same opportunities for personal growth which white students enjoy. Black students reap as much as possible academically from Davidson as, in theory, all students do. But socially, four years at Davidson is something which must be endured rather than enjoyably experienced. Asked if he would ever return for Homecoming, Hudson says, “It doesn’t seem enough like a home to come home to.”

Token article

If this article has dwelt disproportionately on the negative and thus supposedly more newsworthy aspects of the black experience at Davidson, it must surely be due to a great deal more than this reporter’s vain, if meager, hopes of sensitizing an audience to social injustice. Pat Hudson, who incidentally is “surprised that the Davidsonian’s annual token article on Davidson's token blacks came before Christmas this year,” pours salt on an open wound but highlights a situation in need of remedy when he says, “I think they think we're news.”

Breakfast spots cater to morning hungers

The first, open all night, is the Waffle House, a cozy chain-type place located about one mile to the left of where N.C. 73 dead-ends. The food here is pretty good (ah, those pecan waffles!), and entertainment is available by sitting at the counter and watching the chef whip up omelets. The second Concordian cafe is the Tasty World at the Days Inn. The food is edible, but the decor is exactly like every other Tasty World you've ever been in, including the adjacent gift shop (with Daytona Beach ash trays and Gatlinburg tee-shirts). Of course, Charlotte has numerous opportunities for breakfast (anytime!) and we will not go deeply into these. Mention should be made of Denny’s, a favorite of one cult of students. Many claim that no place in Charlotte attracts a stranger group of people. Perhaps by expanding our definition of breakfast to any morning-time meal, the “peak” hours of Denny’s, 2 to 5 pm, may be included as due for consideration. Ask a cultist how to get there. Lack of opportunities can be no excuse for missing the morning meal. The power is in your hands, the world of breakfast bacons, so go... and keep your sunny side up.

The other area alternative is the Coffee Cup. Being much closer to campus (down the street and to the left from the P.O.), the Coffee Cup has the advantage of convenience over the Bunn Warmer. Pancakes, eggs, and sausage also are available here, but a touch of the humanness is sacrificed to big business. However, the Coffee Cup is by no means sterile; besides, they brew a mean cup of coffee, and the conversation isn’t bad even though it is usually shouted across the room. A little too far away to be placed in the realm of pre-class, post-sun-up breakfast bars are two in Concord.

“HEY SHUTTERBUG, take my picture and I'll break your nose.” -Irv Wilson

Monday, October 11, at 7:00 p.m. Dr. John E. Williams will present a talk on “Sex-trait Stereotypes and their development in Children” to the Psychology Club in Eu Hall.