March 19, 1976

The Davidsonian

Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition

Gerch Tecker

Prizes: $10,000

The Davidson National opens here March 21, possibly for the last time.

-Leon Venable

Wilensky chides Munce, Baskin, Spencer for media compromise

[Continued from page 6]

Three people could not give up, however. John Munce had nothing to show for his SGA presidency. Bo Baskin has seen half of his slip by with the same result. The Trustees specifically charged Sam Spencer with the task of resolving the censorship problem after 1974’s fiasco with Quips and Cranks. Munce, Baskin, Spencer, and Will Terry sat down together to write a new draft. Write they did. No subcommittee, no nothing. It is now circulated by Munce and implied to be the result of the subcommittee’s deliberations. In fact, Munce, Baskin, and Spencer are making a last-ditch attempt to reach the elusive agreement all three need. Munce and Baskin completely surrendered the free press issue. No doubt this version will be passed. Spencer’s enthusiastic recommendation will ensure it. The rumor is that John Munce will run for Trustee after he graduates. Certainly, an agreement ramrodded by Munce will enhance his chances.

The statement doesn’t break any new ground; for the most part, it reaffirms rights clearly protected. The media section is an outrage. There is no binding legal opinion tying the College in as publisher of student publications. These publications must be a reflection of the students and their elected editors. The College serves as a collection agent and nothing more. If the College feels student publications are part of its public relations program, let them fund their own annual as they do the Update. Zach Long and Buck Lawrimore are experts at presenting the Davidson line. Student publications should be just that—student publications. Other colleges have given their students the right of a free press. Can you imagine the Davidson of the North (Princeton) censoring a publication? We need to move some of the dinosaurs on the Board of Trustees and in the administration to the point where they can accept the Davidson student as he really is—different than he was in the past. There simply is no reason for Davidson’s students to accept this statement of rights and responsibilities.

If only Williams College would allow free speech...

Union displays Jackson's exhibit

Davidson College is fortunate to have among its small (but excellent) fine arts faculty Herb Jackson, painter and printmaker. From March 11th to the 24th, the Davidson community is given one valuable opportunity to view Herb as artist as well as professor and head of the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition. Jackson’s exhibit of current color lithographs and intaglios, on display in the Davidson Student Union Gallery, represents his work in extrapolating the genre of abstract expressionism. This modern movement separates art from superficial psychological or philosophical meanings and lets it take its most natural form, that of expressing its media only. Jackson’s work, like all art, is about color, space, texture, intervals, movement, shape, light, and temperature. The test of his art is whether he can hold our attention by using only these qualities without concrete or experience. This show succeeds for the most part. Those prints which I term the most “successful” are the ones which communicate to the viewer the most about these values. One of the layer prints, a muted lilac, grey, and smoke blue composition, conveys space by use of two planes, one which recedes behind and under the other. Its misty, dreamlike treatment of color and soft, cottony surface lit by an interior light make it very tangible as well. This same use of overlapping planes and spaces lit from behind is in a large, dark, navy blue print hanging to the right of the entrance. One of the medium-sized prints is particularly pleasing in this aspect because of the overlap of two.open planes with a solid one, in addition to an energetic variety of surfaces. The most expressive of these pieces are three of the four small ones against the back wall of the gallery. These evidence the most conscious modeling of space, temperature change, color harmony, lighting variety, and different intervals. The positive planes and shapes produced in these prints add to their power. Their slashed, crayony surface seems to have been inspired by Herb’s wife Laura’s gemlike cross-hatched paintings. Of the less successful prints, one large, pale-colored example lacks definitive shape, space, or temperature. Its intervals are too balanced and its color and light undistinguished. The vertical bright blue and green print in the center of the right-hand wall also suffers from a lack of interesting shapes, space differentiation, light change, or interval articulation. But the show is overall a vital one, and should not be missed as a chance to understand and appreciate Jackson’s talents. Prices are available by request. Please contact Jayne Reich.

Revive a great tradition
By JACK GOLDEN

[Ed. note—Mr. Golden's trivia column will not be published this week as he chose to devote his time to the research for the following article. The column will return next week.]

Tradition is an important factor in the life of any institution, especially for those of an academic nature. The feeling of cultural and social continuity and permanence they provide would sorely be missed if they were allowed to pass from the scene. Here at Davidson College we have precious few links with the past; consequently, we must guard them jealously. Through an accident which I shall soon relate, I have discovered a case in which the College has actively undertaken the extermination of one of Davidson’s finest traditions, a literary society.

Evidence of this action on the part of the College fathers fell into my unsuspecting hands earlier this fall. While browsing through the antique volumes which are shelved in the temporary storage area in the library basement, I came upon a volume with a bookplate bearing the word “Intermezzo.” Beneath this word was a partially obliterated engraving of an ante-bellum structure. Thinking nothing of it, I let it slide from my mind. My interest was rekindled when I discovered in a file of Eumenean Society documents in that same area of the library several documents from and pertaining to a third Davidson literary society, Intermezzo! Not quite believing what my eyes fell upon, I dug deeper into the file. There I found topics of debates between the Eumenean and Intermezzo societies, a list of Intermezzo Society officers, and many more documents pertaining to this mysterious society. Thinking myself the subject of an elaborate hoax, I discussed my discovery with Dr. Chalmers Davidson who assured me of the bogus nature of the documents.

Third society documents found
I accepted his explanation and felt myself a fool for being so gullible until that day in February when the book with the telltale nameplate and the file containing the information disappeared from the shelves of the library. My inquiries elicited the information that they had been moved to the Archivist’s office on Dr. Davidson’s orders. Through means which I am loathe to disclose, I have managed to obtain many documents pertaining to the Intermezzo Society as well as a number of the society’s own documents. These items were obtained the day this article was being written; consequently, I am unable to give any details at this time. When my sources have been authenticated, I will make them public. The purpose of this article is to alert as many readers to the mysterious disappearance of Intermezzo and to obtain help in the crusade to revive a great tradition. Please watch the Davidsonian for future developments.