the davidsonian April 2, 1976

Externs meet ‘real world’ problems

By PATRICIA McMURRAY
Staff Writer

How relative is a college education to your career? Isn’t the classroom experience somewhat of a sheltered exposure to the
profession to which you may be dedicating your life? These questions are not unusual ones for the college student, especially
at Davidson today. More than ever before, there seems to be a need to experience the “world of work.” The
increased involvement in service projects, internships, and off-campus experiences set up through the Office for Experiential Programs is a strong
indication that many Davidson students are interested in the “real world.”

The Office for Experiential Programs is offering still another opportunity: the Spring Extern Program. The purpose of the Extern Program
is to give students a chance to experience a particular professional environment during Spring break. Ken Wood has said that
the program is designed “to get Davidson students out into the world and experience different careers so that they might
see what it’s like. On a campus such as Davidson’s that has a strong emphasis on the liberal arts it
is especially important that a student learn the world’s vocabulary.”

The Extern Program was first organized last spring; there were 21 students and alumni indicated that there were 33 students
involved this year. The only change that occurred between the two years was that, whereas originally the programs were organized
exclusively with alumni contacts, new associations were made this past spring with professionals other than alumni.

To organize an Extern for the Spring break, a student must have a specific career and location in mind. He
or she should sign up in the Office for Experiential Programs no later than December so that there is ample
time to correspond and get acquainted with the sponsor. An alumnus or friend of the college becomes a sponsor when
he or she agrees to accept a student for the week of March 1-5. The student ordinarily arranges his own
room, board, and travel expenses. The plans for the week’s involvement are varied and different in each program. Gil Cuthbertson,
for instance, is a premedicine major who stayed with a pediatrician in Winston Salem for his Extern program.

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Volume has always been a problem with the guitar. Though it is a tremendously sensitive instrument, it isn’t very loud.
Thus, its place in jazz was largely restricted to the rhythm section during the years prior to the late 1930s.
Even in a small ensemble, an acoustic guitar could simply not compete in a unison passage with, say, a trumpet
or a saxophone. And in the “big band” context that was popular during the Thirties, a guitar solo was next
to impossible.

Finally, the electric amplified guitar as we more or less know it today was developed, and a man came along
who perceived the significance of this technological advance; his name was Charlie Christian, and he knew what could and should
be done with it. Yet the name Charlie Christian doesn’t mean much to most people today. Aside from jazz buffs,
few people can tell you who he was, much less what he did. But though he died in 1942 at
the age of 24, he made a tremendous impact on the art of guitar-playing and the field of jazz as
a whole.

Christian was raised in Oklahoma, a hotbed for Negro jazz talent during the Twenties and Thirties. Yet as Ralph Ellison
pointed out in the Saturday Review in 1958, many of jazz’s most talented creators remained local figures known only to
small-town dance halls, and their reputations were limited to the radius of a few hundred miles. Christian might have wound
up the same way had it not been for John Hammond, a wealthy young jazz patron and “discoverer” of many
talented black musicians, including Count Basie and Billie Holiday. Hammond heard Christian in 1939 and passed the word along to
Benny Goodman. Upon hearing Christian himself, Goodman realized his latent talent and brought him to New York to record with
the Benny Goodman Orchestra and Sextet. Here his prior regional fame expanded quickly into a national fame as his exciting
melodic and harmonic conceptions confronted jazz fans with a sound they had never heard before.

Yet it is ironic that, despite the critical acclaim, no one ever gave Charlie his own recording date. According to
the album notes, the twenty-five selections in this two-record set come close to equaling his total recorded output; almost all
of them come from recordings made with the Goodman orchestra or sextet.

Conceptually, Christian was way ahead of his time. His long, clean eighth note passages punctuated by harmonic extensions and alterations,
his rhythmic drive, his instinctive sense of balance, and his unpredictable treatment of the blues make him one of the
major influencers and precursors of the bebop movement. His "Seven Come Eleven" on Side One is an excellent example of
the way Charlie constructs a solo. He develops tension by a series of riffs through the first sixteen bars, then...Two
days Gil made rounds with the doctor in the morning and watched him examine patients in the afternoon on other
days. He was also able to attend a few lectures and classes at the Bowman-Grey Medical School as well as
visit a laboratory that analyzed pathological diseases. Gil immersed himself in many different aspects of the medical profession. He feels
that “this experience was beneficial in that it gave me insight into the nitty-gritty of pediatrics. I learned what it
means to relate to children and their problems.”

There were others who worked with lawyers, businessmen, the city government, radio stations, the Salvation Army, banks, aerobics research, etc.
The arrangements between the students and sponsors ranged from observing the different operations of a profession to working on a
project that would enable the student to experience different aspects of the career. There are several important things to remember
when participating in an Extern according to Ken Wood. Most important of these is that you should know what your
expectations from the experience are and do as much as you can to fulfill these. The program is a learning
experience and the more involved one gets the more there is to learn. Therefore, when organizing an Extern plan give
as much as you can.

BROWN TROUT by Neil Welliver, Purchase - Leon Venable Award winner in the 1976 Davidson National.

Jazz guitar solos provide contrast by playing relaxing, melodic eighth notes, then return to the series of riffs, thus giving
his solo contour and movement. The first three songs on Side Two, "I Got Rhythm," "Stardust," and "Tea for Two,"
are labeled as by the “Charlie Christian Quintet.” Issued here for the first time on records, they were privately cut
in a Minneapolis night club by a disc jockey. Although the technical quality is decidedly inferior to the commercial recordings,
the takes are by far the best performance by Christian on the entire album. Here Christian is given time to
stretch out and fully develop his solos. In "I Got Rhythm," he uses riffs and pauses to intersperse an otherwise
fluid eighth-note solo. Charlie’s solo on this take is the longest of the album, and his playing is extraordinary. In
the second of these tunes, "Stardust," Charlie punctuates his solo with many strong chords of a minor flavor, providing excellent
contrast. He makes use of one of his favorite techniques, syncopation, which helps emphasize even more his fluid eighth-note passages.
The tenor sax solo by Jerry Jerome is also first-rate. In "Tea for Two," Christian displays very quick fingers while
fluidly running up and down the scale. Many of the intervals he uses (he considered no interval “wrong”) sound strange,
but are nonetheless exciting.

Side Three contains a real treat, for in addition to Christian’s fine playing, the incomparable Count Basie is featured with
the sextet; his unassuming yet unmistakable style pervades throughout the side. Cootie Williams gives a superb performance on trumpet, and
provides effective contrast to the solos of Basie, Goodman, and Christian. On Side Four, the tune "Breakfast Feud" gives Christian
a chance to reveal his rhythmic resourcefulness. In the first of three solos in the song, Christian shifts the metric
accent from the normally strong first beat to the secondary third beat, thereby creating the illusion that he is starting
his phrase on a pick-up from the previous chorus, when in actuality he is starting on the first beat of
the chorus. In addition, he molds the contour of his phrasing so that the melodic peaks also occur on accented
third beats. "Blues in B" and "Waitin’ for Benny" are taken from a warm-up session made when members of the
Benny Goodman Sextet awaited a late arrival of its leader. The musicians were jamming for their own pleasure, and these
refreshingly spontaneous tunes were the result. "Blues in B" (an unusual, difficult key for blues to be played in) is
the best example on the entire album of Charlie’s ability to play basic, down-home blues. In "Waitin’ for Benny," Charlie
builds simple riffs, one leading into another, until he comes to the riff statement in "A Smo-o-oth One." He then
riffs behind Cootie Williams’ trumpet while Cootie gives an excellent free-wheeling, jamming solo. Finally, "Solo Flight" demonstrates most emphatically how
the voice of the jazz electric guitar can fit into a showpiece provided by a big band with no strain
at all. Christian does not attempt to compete against the volume and power of Goodman’s orchestra, but rather rides the
crests of the waves.

Charlie Christian’s style has since been so imitated by guitar players that his music may not seem very innovative today.
But the melodic and harmonic conceptions that he experimented with back in the Forties had never been tried before, and
this must be kept in mind when listening to the album. As Ralph Ellison puts it: “With Christian the guitar
found its jazz voice. With his entry into the jazz circles his musical intelligence was able to exert its influence
upon his peers and to affect the course of the future development of jazz.”
