April 16, 1976
The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor

Prejudice destroys Black Week

To The Editor:

As most people know, last week was the second time for what hopefully is now an established tradition here at Davidson. It was called Black Week, and just from the general format, one could tell a good deal of time and effort had been spent preparing it. In fact, I feel that in some ways it was better organized than most of the social functions that take place here.

Black Week was also relatively successful. I say relatively because I feel it had the potential to be a whole lot more successful if only more people had given it a chance. Why was it not a complete success? It certainly was not because of lack of talent. I missed Imamu Amiri Baraka on Monday, so I can’t comment on him, but I know that most of the people who saw Tommy Scott Young on Tuesday night in the 900 Room will argue that it was one of the best shows the 900 Room has had to date. That was Tuesday night. Friday night was a different story.

Friday night, and I realize this is my own subjective opinion, had the potential to be the best social evening of the year. A concert, which we get so many of here, with a talented and fairly well-known musical group followed by a dance in Chambers with what can at least be described as a competent enough band for our purposes: what more can a Davidson student ask for?

People talk about apathy around here. Well, I don’t know whether it was apathy or something else, but for some strange reason there weren’t enough advanced ticket sales to make the concert profitable. I talked to one of the main organizers of Black Week and although he was not outwardly resentful towards anyone, it was evident he was quite disappointed. What he said went something like this, “We all wanted this concert to be successful in order to top off a good week. I don’t really know why it didn’t come off, maybe we tried for too much. Perhaps next year when I’m gone, we'll be able to do it.”

If this school can get 500 people to pay to see a Wet Willie concert on a night when there are “other things going on,” it ought to be able to get at least six or seven hundred to pay to see a Tavares concert on a night when no “other things are going on.” As far as I’m concerned, it was not a coincidence that, even though the dance was made free, not nearly as many people showed up as usually show up for those dances. There was some reason behind it, and I may receive some rebuttal, but I think the...

Faculty stands

To the Editor:

The Davidson faculty stood up to be counted once again last week, and once again they should be shouted down. The resolution registering faculty opposition to national basketball at Davidson is just another exhibition of the kind of thinking that is hurting Davidson more and more. Do the men in the ivory tower think Davidson will have more money without basketball? I call bullshit on that. When the basketball team wins, it makes money. Plus, how much money is donated to Davidson when it receives national recognition? I don’t suppose we can ever know for sure, but I’d wager that it makes a difference.

Even more important than that is that national basketball gives Davidson exposure all over the country. Most people would never hear of Davidson if it weren’t for basketball. I know that from personal experience—I heard of Davidson when its team played on national TV in the NCAA’s. My guidance counselor had never heard of it. If Davidson wishes to continue to draw a truly national student body, it must continue its national basketball program. And I’m sorry if poor Max Polley is embarrassed by something that is good for the institution.

Greek freak

To the Editor:

I have followed religiously the discussion concerning the scheduling of Spring Frolics—hoping all the while that the college festivities would not share the calendar with Easter weekend. Thanks to the Union Board and a past Ecumenical Council of the Eastern Orthodox Church (who did some rescheduling of its own), there are no conflicts in my April calendar.

Andrew Lamas
Davidson College ’76

[Ed. Note: This year, members of the Greek Orthodox faith celebrate Easter on April 25.]that employs him. Obviously, Mr. Polley hasn’t got enough professional pride and confidence to overlook what “colleagues” say. The opposition to the basketball program is bad enough in itself, but much worse is the fact it manifests something deeper. From everything that comes out of Chambers, obviously the faculty thinks students should all be library rats and come out of their little cells every morning, go to vespers, sit obediently through morning classes, and read or study the wisdom handed out in the hallowed halls and return to their little cells to go to bed. I realize that Davidson is and should be a reputable academic institution, but that doesn’t mean that a student should spend all his waking hours in that great monstrosity behind Chambers. The Davidson faculty still believes that grinding workloads make quality education. This is ridiculous. They also believe that every Davidson student has the same goals and the same motivation. If they wish to shape this college into such a place, I am certainly glad to be graduating. Just don’t expect me to recommend Davidson to anyone or contribute any money. The only money I would give would be if somehow I could remove the pernicious influence of the faculty from student life which, as shown by the hypocrisy in the Spring Frolics' hassles, would be an obvious service to every student at Davidson.

James Koloditch
Davidson College ‘76

Outstanding week

To the Editor:

I would like to thank and commend the Davidson College Black Students Coalition for an outstanding Black Week '76. The week’s performances were beautifully organized and presented, and gave an exciting and varied overview of black culture today.

Rosemary Klein
Davidson, N.C.

The reason was painfully obvious: prejudice. Now, I may be asking the proverbial “mountain out of a molehill,” but I know that if I was disappointed at the cancelled concert and the lack of human bodies at the dance, then the students who organized and to whom Black Week meant the most must really have been disappointed. Maybe prejudice didn’t have anything to do with the situation Friday night. I’m sure everyone will have good excuses why they couldn’t go to the concert or to the dance. To the people with these excuses I call bullshit. For the most part, if a person says he cannot schedule his work in order to leave open a single Friday night for fun, then that person is either lying or too much of a nerd to want to have at a concert. I realize that there are some exceptions to my hasty generalization, however not 900 to 1000 exceptions. It is therefore my personal opinion that at least eight or nine hundred people could have planned to attend the concert Friday night. And judging from past results (with the exception of the poor Wet Willie Concert), it is also my opinion that if this had been a non-black organized concert with a white group of the same quality as Tavares, then at least eight or nine hundred people would have planned to attend the concert. The same is true for the dance that did take place. It was beyond my comprehension to think that 1200 people who are mature and intelligent enough to be known as Davidson students would refrain from going to a dance simply because it was black organized, had a black group with black music and had a lot of black people attending it. It is beyond my comprehension no longer. In the last line of the quote I mentioned earlier, the speaker said, “Maybe next year when the prejudice here is gone, we'll be able to do it.” Judging from this year I’m afraid I'd have to say that next year the prejudice will not be gone. It probably will not be gone ten years from now, and it may never be completely gone. However, I also believe that there are enough open-minded people in this school to pull off next year what could not be done this year. It will take a conscious effort on the part of these people to forget about things like race and skin color and to remember things like genuine concern for your fellow man. This is not an easy task, but it can be done. Until that time, the black person at Davidson will have to work with what is available and keep trying to change things. But it should not be the responsibility of the black person to change the attitude of the white person toward him. It is the responsibility of the whites.

Chuck Fiden
Davidson College '78

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.