March 12, 1976
The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor

Basketball: before & after the kick

Before...

To the Editor:

Davidson's basketball team will be a winner in the near future because of three factors: an abundance of talented young
players, three seniors who have been a valuable influence, and four hardworking and knowledgeable coaches. All of the freshmen are
talented players who have held together through rough times and have improved their play at the same time. Jay, Eppa,
and Mou have been good leaders, all three overcoming various problems in their time. Coaches Brickels, Krohn, Larranaga, and Brown
work harder and want to win more than anyone realizes.

The above is an absurdly oversimplified list of reasons why Davidson’s basketball program will succeed. I’ve tried for the last
two hours to give the unabridged edition but my thoughts and impulses are too complex for me to put down
on paper. The only thing that really needs to be said is that the only ones that don’t think we
will eventually win are Davidson’s own pigheaded, know-it-all students who have the unique ability of being able to sit in
the stands and give the obvious and simple solutions to the team’s problems. Bullshit! Go to all the practices and
games. Talk to all the players and coaches, in good times and bad. See other teams practice and play. Talk
to their people. See laughter and tears, curses and praise, great efforts and pitiful displays. Basketball is people; and if
you criticize any of our people you don’t know them. Nothing is very pretty when you're losing but the players
and coaches should not have to take the abuse that they do from the ignorant buffoons at this school who
are certain to quickly change their minds and jump on the Wildcat bandwagon when it finally begins to roll.

Johnathan Rhyne '77
Davidson College

After...

To the Editor:

Like most students interested in Davidson sports, I was very surprised to hear the news. I suppose that if Bo
Brickels and his staff were to be fired, it is better that it was one week after the season ended,
and not in the middle of the summer. No matter what is to be said about his coaching abilities, it
cannot be denied that Brickels was dedicated to making Davidson Basketball a winner. No one could legitimately ask any human
being to give more effort or enthusiasm than Brickels has given to this program. It is not my place or
purpose to judge how misdirected those efforts may have been, nor is it my purpose to discuss the unfortunate way
in which his dismissal was handled.

This past season was a disappointment (maybe a better word would be disaster) to all those involved. It began with
high hopes and ended with nagging questions. The frustration of 21 losses compared with only 5 wins took a heavy
toll not only on the coaches and players, but also the students. The reason that losing seasons are so damaging
to student morale is easy to understand but unfortunately not realized by many people. With an applicants/acceptants ratio of 3
to 1, Davidson can afford to choose (and does choose) high school students that display a high degree of success.

Easter and/or frolics? Need for rescheduling

To the Editor:

It has come to our attention that Spring Frolics Weekend, 1976 has been scheduled for the weekend of April 16-18.
It just so happens that this weekend is also Easter weekend (or more appropriately, Easter Weekend just happens to be
Spring Frolics!). We feel this needs to be brought to the attention of those who are unaware of the present
plans. Having talked to a member of the SGA, we discovered that the weekend was originally scheduled for numerous other
weekends but conflicts arose. These conflicts were Alumni weekend, Law Boards, MedCats, the Artists’ Series, or the fact that other
available weekends were either too early or too late in the term. So, Easter Weekend has been chosen as Spring
Frolics.

We realize the importance of Law Boards and MedCats to people at Davidson. However, Easter weekend is more important to
as many people (hopefully more). Admittedly, Spring Frolics is an important part of Spring term here at DC. And this
is one objection-- what about the problems and conflicts arising from people wanting to go home or dates trying to
get here for the weekend? But, most importantly, what about the meaning of Easter weekend? It seems strange to us
that a college which claims a “Christian commitment” and “sees Christ as the central fact of history” would give more
weight to professional testing or cultural events than to that event which the college defines as its foundation. We are
not calling for a cancellation of Spring Frolics by any means. However, we do hope that student concern here at
DC will prompt a reconsideration and rescheduling ofSpring Frolics, 1976.
David Yandle '78
Davidson College
Philip Gladden '78

To put it simply, Davidson students come to Davidson as winners. My colleagues in the sophomore class have gone through
a 2-7 football season, a 7-19 basketball season, then a 1-8 football season, and a 5-21 basketball season (total win-loss
record: 15-55). The competitive nature of the students here makes incessant losing particularly repulsive, and many students find it hard
to continually support Davidson athletics. Indifference, like losing, can easily become a habit once it is initiated. In order for
Davidson to continue to be the type of school that offers the broad educational experience for which Davidson is distinguished,
a successful athletic program, particularly a nationally prominent basketball program, is not only desirable but essential. That will be the
primary challenge of the new coach, and it is an awesome one. The challenge is shared by the players, students,
alumni, and especially the administration because they wield a great deal of power. Success relies on cooperation. Davidson relies on
success.

Mike Daisley '78
Davidson College

Thefts demand security
To the Editor:

In the past year, the incidence of theft has been alarming. Certainly, some can be attributed to students, but some
cannot. My roommate’s stereo was ripped off last term. Where was security? Where was security during the rash of citizen
band radio thefts last term? Where is security? The answer is: nowhere. There is no security at Davidson. How many
times has anyone seen anyone but Mr. Sherrill walking around campus? Mr. Sherrill is a fine man, wonderful to talk
to, but ineffectual. The police stay holed up in their comfortable blockhouse when they’re not in town on other business—which
is good. I’m certainly not in favor of policemen on campus in anything but an emergency capacity. What is needed
is a private campus security force—2 or 3 men whose only business is to prowl around and watch for intruders.
Of course, I realize that they still couldn’t stop theft completely, but nevertheless, the mere presence of campus security officers
should be enough to deter most thieves. Right now, there simply does not exist any visible campus security. In certain
places, also, it is basically impossible to lock up rooms—such as the basement of Sentelle, where people can climb in
and out of windows at will. If one locks his windows, the rooms are converted into ovens because of the
heating and hot water pipes which run through the rooms. I don’t know what can be done about that, but
more security couldn’t hurt. Davidson College has a responsibility to protect its students and their belongings. The students owe it
to themselves to complain enough to get some results.

James Koloditch '76
Davidson College

Epes eulogizes past builder and teacher
To the Editor:

Rarely is a faculty column in the Davidsonian an obituary. This one is. While most of you were on vacation,
a fellow named Jack McGee died. Even if you had been here, you would probably not have recognized the name.
Jack was a builder, and only those of us who have been around for a while knew him. The man
we knew was one who simply took pride in his work. He cared more about the quality of what he
did than about the measurable rewards for it. You don’t meet too many real craftsmen these days (except maybe for
Jack’s brothers); you won’t find Jack’s work in museums; but if you walk or drive about Davidson, you might see
what he has done. Might, not will. The cosmetics of a house can conceal the substance of it. You have
to watch the conscience that holds the whole thing up really to know. I often heard “only Jack does it
that way these days.” The “that way” is said in tones that mean “the right way.” Which, of course, is
the point: the importance of doing something well because one wants to. The tangible reward—money, grades—becomes a benefit of necessary
but secondary importance. Doing a good job comes first. Jack, being human, shared faults with the rest of us, such
as doing things at the last minute. (“Picked out your locks yet? Gonna need them this morning.”) But he built
a house from my very primitive plans. He did it well. Where he thought things could be improved, he improved
them; he knew how to, and he wanted to. In a way, it was his house as well as mine.
I doubt that Jack died rich. I know that he left a lot of us richer for having known this
smiling, cigar-chewing, laconic, and thoroughly honest man. Jack was a fine teacher.

Hansford M. Epes, Jr.

LETTERS
The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
