Vol. LXVI, No. SIX October 22, 1976

GREY HOUSE—Steve Lewis

“continued-use” & or “non-conforming use”?

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

“With the proposed zoning plan, the town certainly does not have in mind an active direction of the expansion of
the College,” said Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler. “All must realize, however, that the development of the town and the College
go hand-in-hand.

“The proposed zoning plan will ensure that this development is orderly and planned,” he continued. “The planning commission has worked
for years on their zoning proposal, dealing with all segments of the community—the black population, commercial interests, industries, and other
townspeople, as well as the College and its students.

Zoning code for Davidson community
Town's future awaits

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

The planning commission of the Town Council is nearing completion on a new zoning code for the community of Davidson.
The proposed code divides the town into areas for residential, commercial, and industrial activity, setting guidelines for future development in
Davidson.

Major landowner Davidson College is one of the major landowners in the town, and certain segments of the proposed code
are of special interest to the College community. Under the zoning ordinance, which must meet the approval of the Town
Council, the campus proper would be zoned into two areas: the first, College A, where administration buildings, classrooms, and faculty
dorms would be permitted; the second, College B, in which student housing and operational facilities (laundry, steam plant, etc.) could
be located. College A contains the campus land from Concord Street on the south to Dorm Row on the north;
College B is the land from Dorm Row to the north border of the campus.

Dormitory construction

Any further dormitory construction, according to the ordinance, must be 200 feet inside the College B boundary lines. The 200-foot
buffer zone ensures the homeowners on North Main Street that a student housing facility will not be built “in their
backyards.”

The status of the College's perimeter townhouses is also considered in the proposed zoning ordinance. Dr. Annamarie Burts, member of
the planning commission, said “there is some feeling among the townspeople that the College has been irresponsible in increasing enrollment
without expanding dorm housing on-campus. And with the passing of the College’s role in loco parentis, some believe that the
school has not made it clear to students in perimeter houses that they are residents and members of the community
with responsibilities beyond those of the on-campus students.”

Three categories

The zoning ordinance classifies the “multi-person” housing into three categories:
1) Shared dwellings—four or fewer unrelated individuals living in one facility. Shared dwellings will be permitted everywhere in the areas
zoned ‘residential’.
2) Rooming house—five to eight unrelated individuals living in one facility. Rooming houses will be allowed along Concord and Main
Streets on lots within 200 feet of the campus proper.
3) Residence hall—nine or more unrelated individuals living in one facility. These are permitted along Main Street on lots within
200 feet of the campus.

“Under the ordinance, any person can house up to four individuals without special permission required,” said Burts.

Additional townhouses

“If the College, or any developer, wanted to convert another townhouse to hold five or more students, a lot within
200 feet of campus would have to be found. The developer’s plan for the house must include ample parking for
occupants, provisions for maintenance, upkeep, and other requirements,” she continued.

A crucial question is the impact of the proposed ordinance on the College’s existing perimeter townhouses.

Continued-use labelIf the houses are designated “continued-use facilities,” they will be able to operate as usual regardless of the new
ordinance. However, if the town commission decides to label the houses “non-conforming uses,” the facilities will be evaluated by the
Town Council five years after the ordinance takes effect.

“Determined efforts have been made to be fair to all sides, and the proposed zoning regulations are not aimed at
one group or another. We don’t believe that the proposed regulations will solve all problems in one fell swoop. But
nowhere are there better people than the people in Davidson, and if we work in good faith with each other,
the proposed zoning plan will be a better, stronger ordinance than we now have, and the new guidelines will be
a solid foundation for future growth.

“Over the years, relations between the town and the College have been really good. When the town is in a
decision with the College, we always get a reasonable hearing. The final decision isn’t always the one we wanted, but
it is a fair decision.

“Town and College must keep closer communication. There are people with the town government who are close friends with administrators
at Davidson. Brother Meetze (Director of Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Jr.) and I are the best of friends—I talk
to him almost every day. But just because I speak with him as a friend does not mean I know
all the details of his job or the policies and plans for the future of Davidson. It’s just not natural
to announce to your close friends the intricacies of your job.

“There should be an official line of communication between townspeople, students living in town, administrators of the College, and town
officials. Complaints could then be voiced and problems cut off before they start.”

If by this time the non-conforming perimeter houses are still in violation of the standards of the zoning code, the
town would have the right to close the house. Closing of any perimeter facility would further pinch Davidson's crowded housing
for students.

{see PROPOSAL, page 5}

Staff Writer
October 26

Carlos Baker lectures on Robert Frost
By ROBERT HUTCHINSON

Dr. Carlos Baker, Princeton professor of literature and noted literary critic, will visit Davidson Tuesday. Baker, an authority in modern
American and English literature, gained wide recognition in the fall of 1952 with his publication of the first full-length story
of Ernest Hemingway, entitled Hemingway: The Writer as Artist. The volume was enthusiastically received by leading critics. One stated in
the New York Herald Tribune: “Full of lucid and informed interpretations, this is that excellent kind of criticism which, whether
we agree with all of its conclusions, helps everywhere to clarify our reaction... Baker has done a major job of
literary reevaluation...”

After Hemingway's death in 1961, Baker was invited by publisher Charles Scribner, Jr., to undertake a biography of the writer.
The final version, entitled Ernest Hemingway: A Life Story, was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection for April 1969. It has to
date been translated into eleven foreign languages. He is currently at work on a biographical study of Ralph Waldo Emerson,
as well as a fourth novel to be called The Fence. Baker has also done critical work on Shelley, Wordsworth,
Keats, Coleridge, Fielding, and Frost.

Baker will be in the Conversation Pit at 10 am on Tuesday for an informal chat, in the 900 Room
at 2 pm for a question and answer session, and in the 900 Room again at 8 pm for his
main lecture entitled “Robert Frost: The Harsh Divorce.”
