the davidsonian

December 3, 1976

Professor-elect Gerald R. Ford

[Continued from page 2]

that the food makes them all sick, but not this time.” Captain Jackie Hughes said, “This is the biggest thing
to happen at Davidson since the dumpster fire last term. We’ve quarantined the entire campus and ordered Dave Pritchett not
to take his team to Brown for the Saturday game. I hope the flu runs its course by Christmas break—I’d
hate to keep the kids here during vacation.”

Only Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls and Physical Plant Director Grover C. Meetze Jr. expressed disapproval of the plan
to emergency inoculate the students.

“What nobody here seems to realize is that we just don’t have enough space to give every student a room
for next year. It would be too bad for us to lose students to swine flu, but somehow we've got
to get rid of two dozen people before spring time,” they said.

Ford appointed to faculty position as Poly-sci prof

By JOHN KIRK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College faculty will soon be enhanced by the addition of a new Political Science teacher. Frontis Johnston, Vice
President for Academic Affairs, stated that Gerald R. Ford, lame-duck President of the United States of America, would become an
Assistant Professor shortly before the end of January and would teach a full course load spring term.

“We feel that it is Davidson’s patriotic duty to help smooth the transition period as the Jimmy Carter cartel assumes
power. What better way is there than to take a load off Jerry’s mind than by letting him know where
he can go after January 20?” Johnston asked with a knowing ghost of a smile.

Johnston was most enthusiastic about Ford’s qualifications. “Look at his experience! The man has more or less been in charge
of the most powerful nation on the face of the earth, so surely he can handle thirty kids in a
classroom, who don’t give a damn about what he’s saying. He should be used to being ignored by now, anyway.
A man who can put millions asleep nationwide by TV has proven his worth to our academic program.”

He continued, “And he’s perfect for the political science department here. I mean, my God, he can’t be any more
boring than Minter or Jones.

“We plan to let him teach just 8 and 9 o'clock classes. None could top him at coping with killer
courses like Congress and the Presidency. I figure he can maybe have a sunrise seminar on Fear and Loathing in
Kansas City or the Unmaking of the President, 1976,” he said.

President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. was pleased by Johnston’s idea. Between serves he yawned, “I’ve always liked Jerry's style. The
parallels between him and myself are staggering, don’t you think? We both took office at crisis points in the history
of our institutions, and we worked to restore faith and trust.”

This reporter then tapped secret Davidsonian slush funds to finance a junket to Washington, D.C., for an interview with the
alleged Ford. Between trips between file cabinets and the shredder he admitted that Davidson was his next home. “I feel
that my work in life is just starting. The past two years were only the beginning; I got our boys
out of Vietnam and I can get the dudes who sleep through 8 o'clock classes into the classroom.

“Carter was peanuts compared to the challenge ahead of me now. Hot diggity damn!” He then clapped his hands in
childish glee, patted his belly and rubbed his head and tripped over a crack in the tile.

While regaining his feet he stuck his thumb in an electrical pencil sharpener. Recoiling from that, the President noticed a
shapely secretary passing by and acted as if to grab at her breasts in a lecherous effort to maintain his
balance.

He slipped and fell headlong into a garbage can full of used mimeograph stencils. Somewhat blue in the face, he
commented as he tied his shoelaces together, “I’ve heard that you have to get up pretty early in the morning
to top P. Min. Well, 8 o'clock should do fine and after the debates and all, I feel I’m as
ready as I’ll ever be.”

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE

Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

892-0208

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BIEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

LEARN TO SKI

SNOW SKIING WEEK LONG PROGRAM A

Includes:
- Five sessions of skiing (Sunday night, four days)
- All equipment, boots, skis and poles
- Slope and Lift fees
- Lodging for five nights
- Accident Insurance
- Membership, French-Swiss Ski Club

Cost: $77.25

Place: French-Swiss Ski College, Appalachian Ski Mountain, Blowing Rock, N.C.

COMMUTER PROGRAM B

Includes:
- Five sessions of skiing and instruction
- All equipment, boots, skis and poles
- Slope and lift fees
- Accident Insurance
- Membership, French-Swiss Ski Club

Cost: $50.00

Orientation will be held December 8 at 4:00 p.m. in the Department of Physical Education. Chip Stone will explain the
entire program and deposits for the week-long program and the commuter program.

French-Swiss Ski College
Post Office Box 254
Boone, North Carolina 28607
