Faculty members challenged Martin as the advertisement would swing the McKelway election to Goodman. The professors felt they had "a moral obligation to educate the people on the issues."

By LYMAN COLLINS and PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editors

Forty-one Davidson professors announced their support of Democratic Congressional candidate Arthur Goodman in an advertisement in The Charlotte Observer Sunday, October 24. Goodman’s opponent, incumbent Congressman Jim Martin, is a former Davidson chemistry professor.

Professor of Religion Alexander J. McKelway, one of the original backers of the petition, indicated that although he did not think the advertisement would make a difference in the election, it was important for people from Davidson and the surrounding areas to be informed. He said, "We didn’t do the ad because it will make a difference in the election. It is because we think that it is important that people from Davidson and from the churches and the schools take some kind of leadership and try to point out what the effects of Congressman Martin are."

German Professor Hansford Epes, who also signed the petition, added, "In any academic community you will find a percentage of people who are politically aware—people who take the initiative to inform themselves and feel the responsibility to inform others."

Congressman Martin was not surprised by the petition. "I expected there to be such an ad. They ran one two years ago and we still won. Maybe that says a little something," he said.

[see DISTRICT, page 3]

October 29, 1976

Committee examines club sports: teams seek recognition, funding

By JIM ENTWHISTLE
Staff Writer

The role of club sports in the college community is currently being examined by a committee headed by the Assistant Dean of Students, Mary Lou Dietler. This committee was established last spring as an ad hoc committee from the Dean of Students Office in response to concerns expressed by students involved in club sports.

“The various clubs are experiencing very real problems,” asserted Dietler, “because the college has never recognized them or assigned them any priority in the scheme of things around here.” In addition to the question of the status of the clubs, the other main concerns center around funding for the sports and the use of college playing fields.

The Athletic Department is supposed to provide $1200-$2000 a year for the club sports, to be divided between each club depending on their financial needs. Jeff Morrow, Rugby Club President, said that he has been receiving $150 a year from this fund, but Steve Crane, co-president of the Hockey Club, complained, “For the past three or four years we haven’t gotten any funds and we haven’t been able to get any accounting from the college as to where the funds are going.” The Hockey Club did receive $330 this year which will go towards the purchase of protective equipment and the rental of a full-size rink so that the club can play competitively.

A lack of communication seems to be the problem concerning the use of college fields by club sports. Traditionally, the rugby club has practiced on the lower soccer field, but after conflicts developed with intramurals and the women’s field hockey team, the ruggers began to reserve the field for several hours a week. “Reserving the field didn’t seem to make any difference,” Morrow said. “There seems to be no contact at all between the intramural program and the Athletic Department.”

The college is currently constructing two more playing fields next to the baseball field in an attempt to alleviate scheduling conflicts. Funding discrepancies and practice field conflicts are but two of the many aspects of the club sports that will be examined by Dietler’s committee. Club sports are beginning to

NC PIRG moves into action

By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

After four years at Davidson College, the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group has begun to reap tangible benefits from its initial goals. Now NC PIRG is providing action and not just information. Relevant to college students’ daily lives was PIRG’s publication of the Tenants Handbook. It is particularly useful to those students who are living off campus and have been subjected to the whims of irresponsible landlords.For the first time, the handbook suggests that maintenance of a property is a two-way street. John Hedrick, state chairman of NC PIRG, stated that the handbook showed that "tenants and owners should know their own and each other’s responsibilities." The new handbook is a means of doing just that.

A major concern of PIRG is in the area of nuclear power. According to Hedrick, they are "cautiously optimistic" about making some headway toward obtaining "some new hearings on the subject from the Utility Review Committee." To inform the populace of both sides of any question is a primary desire of PIRG. PIRG claims that "on the issue of nuclear power, the public gets only the sides of the utilities." PIRG considers it should be its duty to make sure that "the people understand the drawbacks of nuclear power and the potential of finding other sources of energy."

PIRG is interested in laboratory procedures at Research Triangle Park in Durham. No adequate standards have been issued in regard to the safety of equipment. An example of the effects of these oversights was seen when a lab worker was exposed to a cancer-producing agent. PIRG has filed a complaint with the EPA on this matter. From a follow-up report on the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, PIRG has discovered great inequality in OSHA’s treatment of various businesses. OSHA gave an inordinate amount of attention to small businessmen and fined them for most violations of safety regulations while giving random minimal fines to some larger corporations and ignoring most of them. According to Hedrick, "OSHA is the case of a good [see HEDRICK, page 3]

RUGGERS contend with lack of funds, scheduling, and communication. This issue should be re-examined by schools all over the country because of the increasing student participation and fan interest in this level of competition. The committee here is taking a close look at how various other schools have dealt with this sudden interest in club sports.

Dietler’s committee, now under the auspices of the Council on Campus and Religious Life, consists of Thom Cartmill, Chip Stone, and Sterling Martin from the Athletic Department, Dr. Koller representing the Council on Campus and Religious Life, two SGA representatives, and the presidents and treasurers from the football, ice hockey, rugby, lacrosse, water skiing, and soccer clubs. The result of the committee’s work will be a report to the Council on Campus and Religious Life containing information on past problems concerning club sports and recommendations for the future. A deadline of December 1 has been set for this report so that it can be presented to the Trustees and so that when next year’s budget is developed, guidelines as to how much money should be allocated to club sports will be available.

Since the past status of club sports has been so nebulous, the committee is starting from scratch in its attempt to deal with the situation. The first step was to have each club president provide background on the club’s sporting philosophy, long-range goals, and current needs. Another elementary step is the process of defining exactly what a club sport is, whether it must compete athletically to come under this heading, and whether organizations such as the Outing Club and Chess Club should be included.

Another major issue is the question of to whom the club sports are accountable. The Athletic Department has asked for a definite policy on this. Athletic Director Thom Cartmill said, "I really don’t care whether it is decided by Mary Lou’s Committee to place the clubs under my department or not. I would prefer basically to have them under student control since the clubs and varsity sports have divergent aims and because some aspects of the clubs, such as the playing of games on Sundays and the use of alcoholic beverages at their games, are not compatible with intercollegiate sports. I can understand and accept these activities, but it is a different philosophy from the varsity sports program."

Tim Sellers, Club Football president, said that club sports possibly could end up under the SGA. "What we’re [see COMMITTEE, page 2]