the davidsonian

October 22, 1976

____- 10

Cat gridders stumble over Dukes

DAVIDSON quarterback Bobby McCarthy (13) sweeps right with guard Nicky Guy (67) leading the way.

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcat offense showed signs of coming to life Saturday, but big plays by the Madison Dukes spoiled the
Cats' bid for a homecoming victory by the score of 17-12.

The first big play of the game put the Dukes on top early in the first quarter. With second and
four on their own 30-yard line, Ron Stith took the ball 70 yards for a touchdown on a well-executed trap
off-tackle.

Bob Ward made the point after, and Madison led 7-0.

The Wildcats mounted a drive on their ensuing possession, but the field goal attempt was wide to the left.

In the second quarter, the Davidson defense continued to show its strength as it has for most of the year.
All Madison could manage was a school record 41-yard field goal by Bob Ward. At the half, Davidson trailed 10-0.

Early in the second half and with the ball on Davidson's 40, the Dukes called on a big play again.
This time quarterback Stan Jones faked into the line and then hit Bucky Knox with a picture-perfect pass for the
touchdown. Ward’s conversion made it 17-0.

At this point, the Davidson offense began to move behind quarterback Bobby McCarthy. Passes to tight end Larry Crees and
McCarthy scrambles carried the ball to Madison's 29, where the Cats were faced with fourth and 10.

With everyone in the stands awaiting the fake field goal, holder Sid Osborne ran to the right and flipped a
screen pass back to Eddie Sitser, who carried the ball just inside the ten-yard line.

The Cats broke onto the scoreboard on the very next play, with McCarthy hitting Larry Crees for the touchdown. The
extra point was blocked, and Madison led 17-6.

After the following kickoff, the Davidson defense, led by linebackers Paul Andrews and Cliff Hester, pinned the Dukes in their
own territory and Davidson got the ball in good field position.

Hard running by Pete Legler carried the ball to the Madison 39, where quarterback McCarthy hit receiver Mike Harris with
a clutch fourth down pass at the Madison 21. McCarthy carried the ball to the one-yard line, and Page Walley
plunged across the line for the score.

The two-point conversion attempt was stopped short, and the Cats trailed 17-12.

Again, it was up to the defense to stop Madison and get the ball, and again they did. However, the
Davidson offense couldn’t get untracked, McCarthy was injured on a rollout, and frantic scrambles by backup Sid Osborne were all
the Cats could muster.

While the game appeared quickly put out of reach, the Cats continued to show improvement. For the first time since
anyone can remember, the Davidson offense outgained an opponent and the Wildcat defense constantly held Madison in check.

The Cats try to get into the win column next Saturday with a two o’clock game at Hampden-Sidney.

Cats command in victory over Duke

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Club Football Team improved its record to 2-2 with a 20-8 victory over the Duke University Club Football Team.

Davidson had a hard time getting started Sunday due to adverse field conditions and trailed 8-0 at half-time. However, the
second half belonged to the Wildcats.

Halfback Bob Bishop was the first to cross the goal line for Davidson as he went 30 yards on an
option right. Wingback Ron Rosenburg then caught a ten-yard pass in the end zone to put the Wildcats ahead for
the first time.

On the last play of the game, fullback Jay Wade put the icing on the cake with a dive play
over the middle, resulting in a 20-8 final score. Brad Huggins called an excellent game for the Cats and kept
the offense moving.

Davidson’s defense, plagued with holes the first half, came down like an iron curtain the second half. Rick Kelly and
Corcy Cooper led the way as each pulled down two interceptions.

“The team is coming around after a slow start this season. We are really playing well together and we will
be able to finish the remainder of the fall season strongly,” said Coach Tim Sellers.

Sunday, the Club Football Team will play Robbins Community Team in an away game.

DAVIDSON FOOD SERVICE SPECIAL

Ice Cream Bash!
Make It Your Way or Any Way You Want It!
Ice Cream of All Kinds and Your Favorite Topping to Go on Them!
Come and Have It Your Way!

Bailey and Richards Houses
Monday, Oct. 24 — 5 - 7 pm

COLLEGE

Halloween Dinner for Meal Card Holders and Guests.

Richards and Bailey Houses
Wednesday, Oct. 27 — 5 - 7 pm

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday — Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503
