April 9, 1976

Batters split doubleheader
Muench to lead all-star team

THE CANNON ROARS—Ron Cannon unleashes a fastball from the mound against the Citadel.

By BILL
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team split a doubleheader with Richmond and lost to the Citadel in last week’s play.

On Saturday, the Wildcats hosted the Richmond Spiders and were decimated in the first game of the afternoon, 0-15. Joel Tew started on the mound but was forced to retire after only 1⅔ innings of play.

He was followed by a host of relief pitchers including Tim Purcell, Ken Norwood, and Mike Linz. No phase of the Wildcats’ game was sharp as Richmond hitters battered Davidson pitchers and Wildcat hitters were unable to create any offense.

In the second game, Davidson came back to trim the Spiders 2-1 behind the strong pitching of Mike Hall. Hall, who has been the Wildcats’ most consistent hurler this season, limited Richmond to three hits.

Ironically, pitcher Joel Tew, who has not been able to bring his throwing game into form yet, provided batting firepower as DH by hitting a home run. Mark Swinehart doubled, stole third, then came home on a wild pitch to give the Wildcats the winning run.

On Monday, Davidson dropped a very close 2-4 decision to the Citadel. As Coach Palmer Muench phrased it, “We were within six inches of winning the game.”

The six inches Muench referred to was a bases-loaded triple which fell just beyond the reach of speedy center-fielder Mitch Stone to score three runs in the 5th inning. Freshman pitcher Ron Cannon went the distance, and aside from the 5th inning, had a solid performance on the mound.

The Wildcats travel to Wake Forest on Thursday for an afternoon game and then to William and Mary on Saturday for a doubleheader.

Head Baseball Coach Palmer Muench was recently honored by being named to coach an all-star team which will travel to three South American countries this summer.

The team, known as the Sports Ambassadors, will be composed of several outstanding collegiate baseball players from all across the United States. Its purpose will be to carry a Christian message to the people of Ecuador, Nicaragua, and Colombia.

When asked to comment about the trip, Muench stated, “I am really excited about going. It will be a witnessing experience. We will be gone for about six weeks, from June 11 through the end of July.”

Ruggers top Blue Devils

By VIC MCMILLAN
Staff Writer

Davidson Ruggers upped their spring season record to 2-2-1 with a 10-6 victory over Duke Saturday. The loss was the Blue Devils’ first of the season.

Duke threatened early in the game by keeping the ball close to the Wildcat goal line. But outstanding defensive play from Davidson’s wing forwards, Bruce Wallis and Jeff Morrow, thwarted all drives at the Davidson end zone.

In spite of poor field position in the early going, Davidson managed to score first when all-time Southern Conference 440-yard champion Mark Connors outraced Duke defenders for a 74-yard try. Dan Boggus made it 6-0 with the extra point conversion.

The Blue Devils fought back with a pair of field goals to tie the match. But Joe Craig managed to break through the Duke scrum for a try which put the Wildcats on top to stay.

Next Saturday’s match will be at Davidson at 2:00 against the Marines from Camp Lejeune.