8

thedavidsonian

April 2, 1976

Lady netters boost record, bounce by three opponents

By MARY AMOS
Staff Writer

After opening the season with two disappointing losses, the Girl’s Varsity Tennis Team has now boosted their record to an even 4-4.

They had a hectic week of matches last week playing Queens, Wake Forest, N.C. State, Clemson, and U.S.C.; yet they won three out of their five matches.

In a match against Queens, which had previously been rained out, the team shut out their opponent by taking all nine matches. The Queens girls collected no more than four games off of any set and accumulated no set wins.

Thursday, Wake Forest’s strong Deacon team defeated Davidson by a close score of 5-4. Team captain Dea Booth displayed excellent form by winning her number three match 7-6, 7-5. Becca Stimson and Andrea Murphy also added singles victories for the team.

In doubles action, the number one team of Kirk Cameron and Stimson split sets, yet won their match 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.

Despite their loss, Booth was pleased with the performance of the team. “Wake Forest is without a doubt one of the stronger teams we'll meet this year. The games were close, and at any time the match could have gone either way. Saturday we hope to make up for the loss when we meet N.C. State.”

The team appeared tough on the courts Saturday, as they crushed N.C. State. State did not manage a win in either the singles or doubles matches.

FRESHMAN KIRK CAMERON volleys against a Queens opponent.

Kirk Cameron played exceptionally well at number one as she won her match 7-6, 7-6. Number two seed Stimson wiped out her opponent 6-0, 6-0.

In doubles action, the teams of Cameron and Stimson, Brown and Ruth Murphy, and Gilliam and Tatum II defeated their State opponents by scores of 6-2, 6-1.

They continued to add to their victories by coming back after their previous loss to Clemson, and defeating them with a 6-3 score on Sunday.

The team won all but the number one singles match. Nancy Brown played a strong game at number five as she whipped her opponent 6-2, 6-3.

The number one doubles team of Cameron and Stimson maintained their winning streak by thrashing their opponents 6-3, 6-0.

Coach Pat Drake was pleased with the performance of her girls in their weekend matches. “They displayed depth, and a desire to win. The girls were especially pleased with their revenge against Clemson. After an earlier loss of 5-4, it was nice to beat Clemson 6-3.”

In Monday’s match, the team traveled to the University of South Carolina. Although they lost the match by a close score of 5-4, Davidson did display a strong effort. Stimson remained undefeated in singles play, by a win of 6-4, 6-4. Sue McAvoy, number four player, rallied from a 4-1 deficit in the third set to win 7-5.

Fifth seed Nancy Brown also took her opponent to three sets before she ably won 6-0 in the final set.

The doubles matches proved to be the deciding factor as the number one team of Cameron and Stimson posted the only win. Ruth Murphy and Brown took their match to three sets; however, they lost 6-3, 3-6, 1-6.

SUE MCAVOY bats one back against Wake Forest.

-Pete Goodman

Golfers fail to make cut

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson's young golf team traveled to Greenville, South Carolina last weekend for the 54-hole Furman Invitational but failed to make the second-round cut.

Competing in a field of 33 regional teams, the Wildcats amassed a two-day total of 657 strokes and did not play in Saturday’s final round after the field was trimmed to 24 teams.

Perennial Atlantic Coast Conference power Wake Forest won easily with a winning margin of over 20 strokes. In Thursday’s first-round action, the Deacon’s scores included a record-tying 66 by the team captain.

Freshmen Sollie Foy, Jim Hurd, and Mike Kennedy as well as Junior Craig Culbertson and Senior Randy Hunter all competed for Davidson with each day’s four low scores being used to compute the standings.

Foy’s first-round 78 was the only time the Wildcats were able to break 80 during the tournament. In the second round, Foy, Kennedy, Culbertson, and Hunter all had identical scores of 81 for Davidson.

The field proved to be too large for the course and 18 players did not finish their first round on Thursday due to darkness.

Culbertson was only able to play 12 holes on Thursday and had to play 24 holes the next day. The field was cut Saturday due to the crowded conditions.

Foy could offer no explanation for the team’s poor showing other than the fact that they did not hit the ball well either day.

“It wasn’t a very tough course. But it was a different type of course than the one we play on at the Charlotte Country Club. The greens at Furman were not nearly as nice as those in Charlotte,” he said.

Davidson’s next match is this Friday on their home course at the Charlotte Country Club with Appalachian State. Emile Parker, who went with the Wildcats to Furman, feels the team will fare much better this time.

“They were in danger of missing the cut too, so we ought to be able to compete with them on a fairly even level.”

Plage Gift Shop sale

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”

Holiday Season Hours:

10-5:30, Mon.-Thurs. and Sat.
10-8:00 Friday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503