the davidsonian February 6, 1976

Mitchell concert plugs new songs
By CATHY LANDIS and RICK MILLER

Joni Mitchell should be working in bars, or at least coffee shops. But bars and coffee shops do not pay. The Charlotte Coliseum does. Saturday, January 31, Joni Mitchell appeared for her share.

The concert began at 8:15 pm with the L.A. Express, Mitchell’s back-up band, playing too loud and too long. The group specializes in their own version of progressive jazz which somehow falls short of the Chick Corea tradition. One reason for their lack of finesse could be the absence of Tom Scott, the lead saxophonist, and Larry Nash, the regular keyboard specialist.

Mitchell appeared one hour later with “Help Me,” her only song to reach the Top 40 chart. She continued with songs such as “Cold Blue Steel and Sweet Fire,” “For Free,” “Rainy Night House,” and “Big Yellow Taxi.” But Mitchell stayed away from her older releases in favor of the newest ones. She played her entire new album “The Hissing of Summer Lawns.” The concert resembled more of a plug for the new album than an overview of the Joni Mitchell repertoire.

Mitchell’s sound combines a mixture of folk and progressive “California jazz” with emphasis upon the lyrics. Her clear and haunting voice tackles a wide range but weakens on the vibrato. She accompanies herself on the keyboard, dulcimer, and primarily the guitar. Her guitar sound is innovative specifically in regard to her tuning style. She makes the songs dictate the sound of the instrument rather than the guitar controlling the song. Of course, such finer details could only be heard from the front seat of the Coliseum. The sound man missed several cues, did not balance the sound, and played up the saxophone and guitar at the expense of the bass. The worst feature was the extreme level of the volume, inconducive to both ears and nerves. The Coliseum aggravated the condition by directing

Faculty wives get involved in Davidson community
[Continued from page 7]

least violinist who is considered the most important member of the orchestra, of the New Haven Symphony while her husband was in graduate school at Yale. She played Concert Master for the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra when they came to Davidson. Richey is a member of the Razoumovski Quartet, with Sally Peck from the School of the Arts on viola, Dave Moskovitz from UNC-G on second violin, and Robert Marsh, the principal cellist of the Atlanta Symphony. The quartet played 20 concerts last year in eastern U.S., but, because of personnel changes, has not played this year. “The quartet is just sheer pleasure,” said Richey. “It’s very, very hard work but the most fun I know. It’s probably every string player’s dream. The thing to look for is people who have styles and personalities you can work with. These people work great—our only problem is that we’re separated by a geographical distance. We get together whenever we can spare the time and work in a very concentrated way,” she continued.

Richey also plays solo recitals; she is currently preparing for a sonata recital with Bela Nagy at the School of the Arts. The Richeys have three sons who are all musicians. “In the evenings when everybody’s practicing, it’s wild. There’s usually three people going at the same time.” She is not involved with the Davidson community because, “My music takes up all my time so I’m lucky if I'm able to cook supper. I was reading a quote from one of the greatest musicians, ‘A musician’s work is his hobby.’ If you really love it you want to do it.”

McKelway teaches piano to college students and faculty and to townspeople. She takes no beginners but finds all ranges of proficiency and talent. “I just try to teach (my students) to play the instrument the best they can within the confines of their talent and ability,” she said. “I find teaching very frustrating at times, but very satisfying. It depends on the diligence of the students and their interest. This pertains mostly to younger students because the college students don’t take unless they want to.”

McKelway majored in music at Vassar and went to Vienna to study under Walter Panhoffer at The Academy of Music and PerformingArts. She studied under Lydia Hoffmann-Behrendt at Dartmouth after graduating from Vienna. Although she studied for a teaching degree, McKelway’s exams included recitals. She gives recitals infrequently here, but is preparing for one with Christine Ligo and Donald Grant in March. The trio plans to perform a Brahms clarinet and piano sonata and Schubert’s "Shepherd on the Rocks" as part of the program. McKelway belonged to a Master Class, a group of students who play for each other and then are evaluated by the fellow students and the instructor, in Charlotte last year. She didn’t rejoin this year because she has taken more students and doesn’t have the time. Besides her music, McKelway has helped in elementary schools by reading, and has worked with the League of Women Voters on several political campaigns. She helped found and taught at the New Schoolhouse for the Arts. In the summer she sails on the Chesapeake Bay with her family. Her music takes up most of her time now. “As I’ve gotten more involved in teaching and playing for myself I’ve not done as much. The more you get into the thing you want to do the more time-consuming it gets,” said McKelway. “It’s sort of a perfect situation the way I have it now. I can organize my time to suit my schedule, my family’s and my students’,” she continued.

JONI MITCHELL performed Saturday in the Charlotte Coliseum. All of the sound straightforward to leave the sides in an indistinguishable dim of static. The Coliseum also erected an unnecessary black curtain which cheated the side seats further. If Mitchell took two steps backward she disappeared from their sight. Even from the center seats, the view of the singer at a distance was no more than a red blotch of clothes, a white face, with a little hair coming down. The light, too, was inconsistent and unorganized. They couldn’t make up their minds between red, green, blue, white, or yellow. Even the Davidson technical crew could have done better. Even so, the audience was receptive considering that, as Mitchell herself commented, this part of the country is a “hot bed for old tunes.” The concert started out with the rowdy atmosphere of a packed house. But as the performance lost vitality, the crowd dwindled. Unfortunately, they missed a resurrected ending. She picked up a fur boa and cut immediately into “Raised on Robbery” and the crowd broke loose. She encored with “Twisted,” finishing the concert at 11:15 pm.

Writhing hero seizes implement of freedom
By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

The pressure on the back of his neck grew more painful by the second. The hands’ long jagged nails ripped his flesh like shards of glass. Writhing with the ever-increasing pain, he tried to give voice to his suffering. Only the slight rasp of his attacker’s breath could be heard over the creaking of the ship. With the agony rapidly growing his hands shot out along the rail. There must be something he could do to rid himself of this fiend. He found the answer in a large wooden dowel. His hands seemed to take on a life of their own as they inched toward it. The pain made each second pass as though they were hours. Finally, he clasped the implement of freedom and with a strength he did not know he possessed, he turned and struck the vacant air which surrounded him.

Adjust your horizontal hold for this week’s quiz.
1. At what club did Ricky Ricardo play?
2. The cretinous villain of The Wild Wild West was...?
3. For what does the acronym UNCLE stand?
4. Name the Avenger’s commander.
5. ... was the ne’er-do-well physician of Lost in Space.
6. What is the address of the Munsters?
7. Capt. Binghampton of McHale’s Navy was nicknamed... .
8. Carter Nash (alias Captain Nice) was portrayed by whom?
9. The Chief of Control’s first name was what?
10. On Gilligan’s Island, the skipper’s name was ... and the professor’s was...

Answers:
1. Tropicana
2. Dr. Miguelito Loveless
3. United Network Command for Law and Enforcement
4. John Steed
5. Dr. Zachary Smith
6. 1313 Mockingbird Lane
7. Leadbottom
8. William Daniels
9. Thaddeus
10. Jonas Grumby and Roy Hinkley