the davidsonian
February 13, 1976

Freshmen flood Patterson, 100 jam Court waiting lists

By MEG CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Last Thursday night freshmen participated in self-selection of eating houses; this year, however, the results were far from normal. “Fewer people got in houses this year than in the past,” said Dean of Students Will Terry. “Even though I don’t know the exact figure, the waiting lists are long.”

For the first time since the transition on Patterson Court from fraternities to eating houses, approximately 100 freshmen have been placed on waiting lists. “A lot of this is determined by the size of the senior class each year,” said Terry. Terry and the Patterson Court Council knew before self-selection that there would probably be an overflow. The results of a survey distributed to freshmen by Terry indicated full facilities—even though not all surveys were turned in. “The lesson we can draw is that we are developing a larger student body without the other resources to take care of their social needs,” said Terry.

Jeff Neikirk, chairman of Patterson Court Council, said one problem is that the court was designed for a school of 1000 students. Presently Davidson has an enrollment of about 1300. Another major factor was the strong rush put on freshmen by several houses. In anticipation of this overflow, all eating houses were asked to increase ceilings to the maximum. “I can say with some degree of certainty that a lot of the houses are full, even too full,” said Terry.

The houses are full, and as it stands the waiting freshmen will have to continue eating with the Slater program. The possibility of reopening Rusk House has once again been suggested. Neikirk, however, does not see this in the immediate future. “Presently Rusk House is being used as a training table for football. It’s a good idea, although some have complained of the waste of facilities for six months of the year. The house is also used for alumni receptions maybe once every couple of weeks. There are ample facilities elsewhere that could be used for receptions, but the football staff needs a place the size of Rusk for a training table.”

Conjecturing on “if” Rusk House was opened to relieve the overflow, Neikirk said that with a capacity of sixty or seventy everyone could possibly fit in. “We want to, in planning our social life, not to stuff people into houses. The Student Life Committee felt long ago that 70 was the optimum number both socially and for economic solvency,” said Terry.

Outside Perspectives

By JOHN PARKERSON
Staff Writer

The editors of the Williams College Record have gone on record opposing smoking in classrooms and other campus facilities. They cite warnings made by the Surgeon General of the United States against the use of “carcinogenic elements,” which destroy not only the health of the smoker but that of others in the room too. While affirming the right to smoke in private, the editors noted that an increasing number of professors are banning cigarette smoking during classes. Students may also request that other students do not smoke in class, thus protecting their own health, and smokers are generally courteous enough not to smoke if requested.

Williams’ College Council failed to adopt a resolution that would have prohibited all classroom smoking, although the faculty of Williams has passed a smoking ban for faculty meetings. Like Davidson, Williams has designated areas for smokers in the library, and Williams might also be able to separate smokers from non-smokers in the larger...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

dining halls as well. Senate reforms electoral procedures By STEPHEN BELL Senior News Editor At its meeting Tuesday night, the SGA Senate passed a resolution that, “No review which counts more than a daily quiz shall be given during the last three days before the end of regularly scheduled classes.” The resolution, introduced by Senator Ed Sibley, passed by a unanimous vote. The Senate’s resolution will be sent on to the faculty more as a recommendation than as a demand. Said Bo Baskin, president of the SGA, “I hope the faculty will understand the tough situation students are in during the last week of a term, and will cooperate. The purpose of the resolution is to bring the situation to the attention of the faculty.” In other business Tuesday night, Pat Hudson presented the academic calendar which has been approved by the faculty’s Executive Committee for next school year. The 1976-77 calendar will give students a longer Thanksgiving break. However, there will no longer be a reading day between the end of fall term classes and the beginning of fall exams. There was some complaint about this in the Senate, but the greatest complaint was aroused by the fact that once again there will be classes on Good Friday. By a vote of 10-2, with three abstentions, the Senate passed a resolution that there should be no classes on Good Friday. Commented Baskin, “It was such an overwhelming vote, I’m sure it will have an effect on the Executive Committee.” plans for Black Week,” said Cunningham. “When the Union saw how much of a struggle it was to organize it, they decided to have a committee to coordinate all minority activities... In the future it won’t be necessary to have a Black Week or an International Student Week. We’re going to program for the entire year,” she continued. “There probably won’t be many other activities for this year since it is so close to the end of school and we’re just getting started. If a student thinks he or she has some programming idea or feels something is missing we would greatly appreciate suggestions, especially from international students.” Cunningham said that no particular minority would overbalance the committee. The committee will aim at each aspect of minority, not just at one all the time. “That’s the sort of thing we want to get away from,” said Cunningham. The Senate also passed some reforms of its elections procedure Tuesday night. A board was established to adjudicate election disputes, and the strict filing deadlines (which had kept some students off the ballot in last term’s SGA elections) were loosened somewhat. Finally Tuesday night, more appointments were made; Bo Hunter was re-elected to the chairmanship of the Activities Tax Council, and John Guthrie and Laurie Dunn were appointed to the SGA Court.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.