the davidsonian

May 7, 1976

Biological Study.

MONEY rolls in to save this forest for

—Irv Wilson

Biologists seek finances for Stanley County land

By JEFF SICH
Business Manager

The opportunity to purchase land in Stanley County, North Carolina, which is botanically significant (Davidsonian March 26, 1976) has sparked
the Davidson College Biology Department and Biology Society into a large fund-raising effort.

The department is in the process of trying to contact former students who had shown an interest in botany.

“The college is allowing us to contact those graduates who have not contributed in the past five years and who
had been enrolled in a botany course here at Davidson,” said Professor of Biology Tom Daggy.

A method of financing the purchase has been arranged through the Nature Conservancy, a national organization whose purpose is to
conserve natural areas.

“The organization has a large multimillion-dollar revolving sum which they can spend quickly but the amount must be repaid. They
are willing to buy the entire property for $15,000 if we can raise $7,000. The remaining $8,000 must be repaid
within one year,” said Daggy.

“The Nature Conservancy has set a May 29 deadline for us to raise the $7,000 and we are also trying
to meet a May 30 deadline imposed by the owner of the property.”

Stanley County Public Health Officer George Leiby had started our fund raising with a contribution of $1,000.

“Since that time, Mason and Nancy Wallace have donated $500. Wallace is a Davidson graduate and a member of the
Board of Trustees. We also have in hand a donation of $125 from the North Carolina Botanical Gardens,” continued Daggy.

Recently, Craven Williams, Vice President for Development emphasized that, “there has not been the thought that Davidson will be sole
owner of the property. We're interested in the educational value of the property as it appears to be unusually unique.
We would hope that it would be preserved by several groups of people, one of which is Davidson College.”

The college appears to view the property in terms of real estate and Williams stated that “any action or formal
commitment must be on recommendation of Mr. Currie who is our advisor on land acquisition.”

Total contributions from the Davidson College Community now total $1700. Daggy feels that the money can be raised and attended
a meeting this Monday with the Stanley County Commissioners, along with College Business Manager Robert Currie.

“The Commissioners are sympathetic to our cause,” said Daggy, “but they legally cannot contribute. Hopefully they can encourage contributions from
the community and assist in closing the transaction.”

Help appears to be coming from many different sources, such as the promotional consideration provided by Davidson Lightweight Cycles in
the Biology Society’s raffle. Daggy and Professor of Biology David Grant are exploring all possibilities.

“An Officer for First Union National Bank in Charlotte has expressed a great interest in the project, but nothing has
yet been finalized. Dr. James Matthews at UNC-C is working to raise funds through contacts in Monroe and the Stanley
County area,” said Daggy.

“At this point, every little bit will help,” Daggy noted. “We're just hoping to be able to meet our deadlines
in order to preserve this property.”

Any individual or corporation that would like to make a contribution should make their check payable to Davidson College Biology
Department Land Acquisition Fund, in care of Dr. Tom Daggy.

Scholarship Bridge ends with Flavell, Rockett, Russ taking top three places

By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

The ninth session of the Davidson Scholarship Bridge Tournament ended Sunday night with the leaders from the previous week—George Flavell,
Allan Rockett, and Mike Russ—holding their places to win the first three prizes in the contest.

Mr. Bill Woodson, board member from the American Contract Bridge League’s seventh district, presented the scholarships of $200, $100, and
$50 for the first three places to the winners.

Selection of the winners was based on the score averages of the best six sessions, of which only four could
be played with the same partner.

The ACBL initiated the scholarship program last summer and has established $17,500 in awards to be given in college and
university tournaments across the nation.

Davidson has the distinction of being the first college to begin a scholarship tournament, and has the option of holding
a tournament again next year.

Approximately thirty people participated in this year’s competition, with an average of five tables being played at each of the
nine sessions.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR

THURS 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00

25¢ DRAFT

Get Some Grins
— This Summer —

Terry
Cindy

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
