March 12, 1976

The Davidsonian

Trustees meet during break, discuss finance, enrollment

By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

The Board of Trustees met for their regular March meeting over Spring Break. The Finance, Governance, and Athletic Committees were the only committees that met formally.

“Of course, the principal item on the agenda was the budget,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “They approved the balanced budget with the obvious understanding that there may be some changes because we don’t know exactly how some areas will be affected.”

The trustees also increased enrollment by 15 students; that will bring it to 1265. Tuition will be raised $200 and the laundry fee by $25. “This is the first time the laundry fee has been raised in four years,” explained Spencer. He also said the trustees had expressed concern that Davidson and other private institutions may be pricing themselves out of the college market with the tuition raise.

The second major item before the board was the approval of the Internal Case Statement which describes the College’s financial situation. “The board approved the principle of the statement but also felt that there was still room for change. In effect, they said, ‘You’re in the right direction,’” commented Spencer.

The third item related to governance. This involved the new constitution and proposed statement of student rights. Voting on these has been tabled and docketed until the May meeting. SGA President Bo Baskin, who along with former president John Munce presented the statement, explained, “That was all we hoped for. We wanted them to look at it and vote on it in May.” He said he thought the trustees and the Governance Committee were in favor of it. “We’ve got to take the statement to the faculty and back to the students,” he said. “There have been substantial changes since it was first approved so I would like to see it again in the form of a referendum for the students to vote on.”

Concerning the president’s suspension powers, the trustees shortened the time lag that can occur between suspension and trustee review. Now the trustees must act on a suspension by the president within seven days and have completed their review in 30 days. “I was pleased with this action,” commented Baskins. “It protects students, faculty, and the president himself, from an unfortunate situation.”

Baskin commented on the trustees' decision to return Davidson to national prominence in basketball. “There may be some dissent from some students about the expanded basketball program,” he said. “But most students are realistic and see how a strong program may help Davidson and give the college a higher national profile.”

-Leon Venable

Dockery finds stigma problematic

[Continued from page 2]

arising,” said Terry. Dockery wants to be available for the students to use her skills and knowledge. She finds two basic problems that the counseling program must overcome: thestigma society places on psychological counseling and the difficulty counselors experience in getting information to the students. “One of the things we need to do is to term these people just ‘counselors,’ de-emphasizing the psychological or clinical aspect,” said Terry. “My experience here is that probably a majority of the students don’t see the immediate need for counseling. This is because of the old concept of the ‘shrink’ or psychologist,” according to Dockery. “It’s not socially acceptable now. For me, this is a practical indication of the need for counseling.”

“I don’t think and (the counselors) don’t think we have the facilities to handle really sick people,” said Terry. “And that’s okay because we have few or no really sick students.” Although most cases are on a short-term basis, Dockery emphasized that the counselors do give long-term clinical treatment. “There is no doubt that through our services we have helped many students. Many students we have treated would not have finished Davidson if not for counseling,” Dockery said. “My schedule is practically always filled up.”

Authorized Dealer Service and Sales
173 N. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

ZACK LONG: New head of the community’s Arts and Science Council.

Long to run council
By CHUCK KENNON
Managing Editor

Zach Long, the Director of Alumni Affairs, has been chosen to direct the 1976 fundraising campaign for the Arts and Science Council of Charlotte/Mecklenburg in Davidson. “The ASC collects and provides funds for a wide range of possible community activities. The ASC was recently reorganized to encompass a large number of affiliated Arts and Science groups in the area,” Long stated. Money raised during the campaign will be utilized by 45 cultural organizations, including Davidson College and the Community Schoolhouse for the Arts, that are connected with ASC. The campaign goal is $261,891 and the drive lasts through March 31.

Long explained that 13 organizations get direct funding. “That includes the Schoolhouse for the Arts, in addition to such groups as the Charlotte Nature Museum, Symphony Orchestra, and the Oratorio Singers,” he added. Other groups are eligible to apply for grants from a “project pool.” The college fits into this category, Long said.

The ASC recently expanded from seven to 45 affiliated groups in an effort to shift the emphasis of cultural activities in the area away from “black tie” events. Popular interests will be more represented in the new members, which include the Afro-American Culture and Service Center, the Little Theater of Charlotte, the Queen City Aquarium Society, and the Charlotte Handweavers’ Guild. Long said that “the ASC membership won’t be a direct attraction to students, but the full meaning of the relation is open to exploration. The ASC has only contacted professors and staff, but student participation in the drive is welcome. The ASC also hopes for student input into their programs.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans
Only 6 miles north
John Mack & Son
Mooresville

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC