October 15, 1976

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

It is interesting to note that if Jimmy Carter had been eligible for reelection for Governor in 1974, few Georgians would have voted for him. His popularity had dwindled considerably by the end of his four-year term. Within a year after taking office, Jimmy "Who" had accomplished the goal which highlighted his gubernatorial campaign—consolidation of a seemingly infinite number of state agencies in a last resort to control an inefficient bureaucracy and runaway inflation. Carter’s reorganization soon proved an embarrassing failure.

Davidson community jeopardized by selfishness

Davidson College no longer knows itself. Years of looking toward the future, keeping its nose to the grindstone and its eyes on the horizon have left Davidson a victim of a special brand of tunnel vision. The students, the faculty, the administration, and various secular and non-secular organizations made up of these factions have drifted apart so that now the term “academic community” is empty. Davidson community members still gather together in groups, but there is sadly little interaction between them.

The SGA Senate, a body whose purpose is to serve the student body, has missed numerous opportunities to acquaint students with some of the issues they expected to be handling. Instead, the Senate has attempted to conduct its public relations from the other end, expecting students to fill out “gripe sheets” or to respond when a Senator knocks on their door asking for suggestions. The College Union has operated in a similar way. An organization dedicated to programming for the Davidson community, the Union has done very little recently to attract members of this community into the decisions made about programming. The Davidsonian, which regards itself as a student publication, must assign its columns on student opinion, presumably because it has failed to be a forum for freely given student expression.

In general, the extracurriculars at Davidson College have ceased to be vehicles for the exchange of ideas and have now become chores to be laboriously undertaken. The reason for this is that any feeling of fellowship between members of a particular organization has been supplanted by feelings of individualism and selfishness. Students have become increasingly concerned with their personal achievements and have lost the urge and the ability to function as a community.

To forge a return to community status for Davidson, we suggest that every person at Davidson commit himself to attending whatever opportunity for exchanging ideas is available. The Staley lecture series next week, Dr. Spencer’s Tuesday open-ends, and Thursday’s Trustee reception should be heavily attended. The SGA Senate and the College Union could benefit the current situation by holding more open-ends with formats designed to relate policies and programs to other students. Each person must involve himself for the good of the community. Selfishness only leads toward individual carrels in the library and away from a full educational experience.

the davidsonian

Malhow Covington ................. Editor
Bill Peeples ....................... Managing Editor
Jeff Stoh .......................... Business Manager
Nina Smith ....................... Photography Editor
Scott Gorman .................. Production Manager
Peter Romo .................. Editorial Page Editor
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan .... Asst. News Editors
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall .... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ....... Features Editors
Ellen Parker .................. Advertising Manager
Lee Smith .................. Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218; Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

President Ford noted in the first of the Great Debates, the Governor's new program caused a fifty percent increase in the state budget, an increase hardly in keeping with the rate of inflation. Carter’s big boo-boo was widely overlooked by many citizens, for all of his other state programs proved pleasing to the populace. This sense of contentedness has been accredited to the Governors that originally set the other major Carter programs in motion: Carl Sanders and Lester Maddox. Following in their footsteps, Carter completed programs including conservation measures, school desegregation, highway improvements, and other policies that had been initiated prior to his term.

Letters to the editor

900 Room

To the Editor:

Davidson students, at least in my years there (1969-1973), always displayed a unique respect for performers.in all phases of entertainment. Conservative, liberal, moderate, radical, apolitical students all shared that valuable capacity to sit and listen attentively to a talent who reciprocated by concentrating more on his or her material. The result was a mutually enjoyable atmosphere and a reputation for Davidson as a good place to entertain. What happened? A fellow alumnus was at Davidson recently and decided to go to the new Union coffeehouse one night. Musicians were performing to one of the noisiest “audiences” my friend has seen anywhere. He could barely hear the music, much less a comment from someone at his own table. He has seen a better audience at a university coffeehouse than he saw at Davidson. I was extremely disappointed to see that Davidson students showed a complete lack of respect for anything but their own interests. I sincerely hope the situation changes or musicians will bypass what was formerly an enjoyable stop. My friend’s wife is a good musician, and she had expressed an interest in playing at Davidson until she witnessed the loudness competition last week.

Jack Willits
Myrtle Beach, S.C.

Davidson too naive

To the Editor:

Here at Davidson I too am a token of sorts, though not of an ethnic or racial variety (despite what my friends might say). I represent that home of hard-core indecency, New York City. A careful survey of the student catalogue will hone the number of city residents here at Davidson down to three faithful. Though pseudo-New Yorkers abound, from the various suburbs and townships, there are only three from the city itself. While I am no better for my past than anyone else, I am certainly no worse. Students informed of my hometown betray facial expressions of curiosity and pity, and then launch into a tirade of bad “Central Park Humor.” While I do not resent Central Park jokes, it is the responsibility I feel to cure city misconceptions that irks me: Yes, I have been in Central Park and emerged unscathed. Numerous hours were spent last year, during the city fiscal crisis, just attempting to raise a consciousness of what the city was about, what it meant to someone who loved it. I became awfully tired of repeating the same things over and over. Still, of necessity, certain people would remain beyond my reach. A person raised in a small town cannot possibly rationalize coming to the aid of an eight-million-person megalopolis that he or she would just as soon see removed as a benign tumor. I often end letters to friends with “From the land of naivete.” Obviously, this is a ridiculous generalization, but I do not mean it derogatorily. Nineteen years as a New Yorker forces much upon one he does not wish to accept or absorb. There is a point of saturation; the city achieves and goes beyond this point. Thus, to say from the land of naivete means only goodbye from a place where I don’t have to act as if I know everything. To be naive has its advantages. At times I wish I were more so. Why am I here? (A question all eventually ask.) I wonder myself at times. Penance? I do not believe so. I know I’ll go back to the city, defying the words of Thomas Wolfe. And yet here you see I can feign ignorance. New York does not allow me the privilege. Thus, please do not ask me to be the New York sophisticate. I’m on vacation.

Robertson Park ’79
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.