November 12, 1976

The Davidsonian

Ta-Ta’s Rationalize Dreary Column

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

Do you know what Bodacious Ta-Ta’s do? Our minds are taxed to ton. Melendy and John “Red-hot” Ratliff, the amiable referees, agreed to perform for the Chorale. Fiji #8 led by the gorilla tactics of the limits. We suffer from a case of Dan “The Bogus” Boggus, proceeded examinus paranoidus, and you must excuse the lack of inanity in this column.

One would think that a meeting between the esprit de corps of Second Cannon and the lofty alacrity of The Bongs would be cause for great excitement and raving delirium, and the vision of thousands of screaming fans comes to mind. One would be wrong. These two rivals did meet last week and the result was a mediocre skirmish spiced up only by Miller “Muckworm” McClintock’s fruitless efforts to pull down Jeff Morrow’s Fruit of the Looms. The Second Cannon fodder was held to goose eggs while the fogdoggy Bongs racked up 20 points on the strength of studly plays by Dave Bruce (2), Sion, and Jeff.

O.K. Chorale cleared their throats and took the field against the flaccid Fiji #8 only to discover to their horror that they lacked the diaper duo of Johnny Peter “Pick-it-up” Pudknocker and forward to what they hope is the championship; the flickerball playoffs are held this week. Bumbling in jubilation at the thought of losing by only 37 points, the Chorale was flattened when informed the game was deemed a forfeit in favor of the Feejees.

In a humorless display of fraternal fanaticism, SPE #2 locked frat pins with PDT #1 in a match laden with tension. Flinging frat hats and flaring nostrils were characteristic of the phalanx. Star PDT tailback, Tim “Bushwah” Barr, limped from the field at halftime due to physical dilapidation. However, the pompous PDT #1 overcame a one-point deficit to spear the spasmodic SPE’s 39-20.

Six delegations finished up their irregular seasons last week. The wise, old Whizz Kids reduced Richardson II to retching rubble, 36-26. The House, a team which represents flickerball at the zenith of its nadir, opened their doors to the capricious ka-ka’s of KA #1 and went to the wall 48-0. SAE #1 whidded past the wily War Kiwis, a puissant freshman team, 20-13. The sultry succubae of Little Women smote Killer Watts 12-0. Killer Watts, playing as if burdened by overstarched petticoats, was unable to stop the TD receptions of Kathy “How-d’-ya-do” Howard and Nancy “La Machona” Macconnachie. Flickerball playoffs are being held this week.

As for 3-on-3 basketball, SAE #1 defeated PDT #1 in the finals to capture the crown 20-18, behind the net-burning accuracy of Adrian “Whoopla” Wilson.

Letter to the Editor

Fireman Serves a Worthy Purpose

To the Editor:

From our greatest foolishness, comes the greatest wisdom. From the world’s absurdity, comes our guiding light. From one perspective, the return of Fireman was one of the largest and most ridiculously entertaining events of the year. From another perspective, it was also one of the most meaningful events. It is unfortunate that few faculty and staff were on hand to witness it, for they would have seen one of the most pertinent and complete presentations of the needs of Davidson College ever given. It was a forceful plea for educational integrity.

First, the most obvious characteristic of the fireman phenomenon was its tremendous emotionality. Emotional arousal and expression was the name of the game. The amount of emotional expression is probably a good indicator of the degree to which emotionality is lacking in our education. The fact that about 500 to 700 students attended is a demonstration of the epidemic effects too much sterile “learning” has on us. Emotional interaction needs to be part of our education.

Second, the expression of emotion in the fireman phenomenon was displaced expression. At the end of the day when the events that have triggered our anger and pleasures have long been forgotten and our energies have been reduced and channeled into the superficial absorption of symbols from books, we collectively discharge our chronically held tensions in the direction of other symbols, most of which have no eminent meaning for us. We need to be able to express our feelings and concerns at the time that they appear in our educational process or at least have opportunities for relevant and appropriately directed discharges at later times. We need to do it.Collectively, that is, in groups of various sizes. Third, though the events depicted along with fireman seemed to be randomly chosen, they all had a common focus. They were all symbols of man’s irrational behavior. Hitler and the fascist movement were an extreme example of the tremendous influence of the irrational. Indian chants and dancing are another example. Our own foolish taboos on emotional expression and nudity were chided in Krishna and Wolfman, as were the absurd stigmas on oddities such as baldness. Perhaps the greatest absurdity with a meaning for us here and now is the failure of our “teachers” to acknowledge and seriously deal with the reality and power that the irrational and repressed unconscious have upon all of us, and the wealth of knowledge that lies in it. The symbol and keeper of that repression were the books appropriately burned on the steps of Belk. In reality, we do not burn our books. Instead, we force our noses into them, ignore our own opinions and intuitional knowledge by continually looking for documentation from outside. As a result, our own understanding, which goes unacknowledged, causes us to burn inside. We become living firemen. We must learn through experiencing each other and ourselves as much as we do from books. We need a whole—not a half—education.

Fourth, the fireman phenomenon parallels many aspects of our lives, which on a wider scale is also a basic state of mankind. First, as depicted, are the symbols of irrational force in Hitler, the Indian, Krishna, and others. Second, as enacted, the entire student scene was itself a demonstration of emotional force and reality in ourselves, as Manfred noted in last week’s Davidsonian. Third, as lived, is the irrationality of our education without experience from which emotions periodically burst undirected. And fourth, on an existential level, we are, as most “educated” people, caught between faith and knowledge. Since the college has chosen knowledge over faith, we are forced to spend our spare time searching frantically for faith or have it die in our laps and lives. We need an education which is also an integrated part of our life.

Fifth, we seek contact with the “real world,” where action and emotion are not ignored. The fire in the dumpster after the fireman show was over brought a bit of a symbol of that world into our life when real firemen came to put it out. We need not only contact but also participation in that world. A group of students pushed out of a dorm to have their picture taken on the firetruck, and thus to capture that brief moment when they and something “real and relevant” stood side by side. We need an experiential education in an unbuffered world where things we see and do count for something concrete, right then, rather than on a card at the end of the term.

Finally, in the aftermath when the next day comes, we find the scattered residues of our frustrations. Piles of burnt trash, broken pumpkins, and wet, papered halls lie silent. But it is not we who find it—it is the janitors who must face it. The “educators” are not content to place all value on academics. They (and we) must also devalue the manual. This summer, after the janitors had cleaned up the union once, its basement was renovated and repainted, only to have them clean it up again. We pay them less than substantial wages while squandering our own mostly unearned fortunes on lavish housing, lifestyle, liquor, and leisure. This is like spitting in the face of your pseudo-opponent while you hold him down, though it has been sufficiently removed from our presence and intellectualized to be ignored in actuality. Action has become a negative value. It is punished by academic sacrifice. Ironically, and yet appropriately, the mess left by the fireman phenomenon is cleaned up by these people. Those who we degrade attitudinally and physically (financially) are the ones who must pick up the pieces of our educational inadequacy. Soon, after Davidson, what is now only our educational separation will become the sin of self-separation manifest in the inadequacy and drudgery of our daily and total lives. Fireman is not dead but continues to burn on in the hearts and minds of those who feel the incompleteness of Davidson. An incompleteness which is also its oppression. He will remain and return in many forms until the “teachers,” whatever their names become, learn what learning is all about.

Wayne B. Jonas '77
Davidson College