March 26, 1976

A Review

Mazursky presents honest portrait

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

Making artistic statements about artists is dangerous business in terms of retaining integrity. There is always the peril of either exalting the artist and his work on too grand a scale, or lapsing into self-pity; after all, unless the artist was lucky enough to start at the top, he has undoubtedly had some hard knocks along the way, and may feel the need to strike back. Fortunately, this is a trap which Paul Mazursky has managed to avoid in his latest film, *Next Stop, Greenwich Village*.

Thematically, the film is as humble as Mazursky’s beginnings, seeking neither to idolize nor pity creativity. But it is a spirited and exuberant work, a kind of portrait of a young man as a clown, and therefore an artist. Perhaps one of the main reasons why Mazursky avoids many possible mistakes is the compactness of his world. Any sort of battle between artist and society is secondary to battles between artists, and between the artist and himself. For the most part, the film takes place within the confines of the Village, a world of crowded coffee shops and cluttered, often depressing flats. The characters are mostly “insiders” in the Village by virtue of being “outsiders” everywhere else.

Mazursky’s script, which is somewhat autobiographical, follows the fortunes of Larry Lapinsky (Lenny Baker), a kid from the Brownsville section of New York who heads off to the Village to seek his fortune as an actor. Thus the film could be seen as an initiation. Mazursky eliminates Larry’s entrance into Village life: one minute he’s leaving his parents’ home, the next he seems fully integrated into the Village with his own circle of friends or, at least, acquaintances. These include his young girlfriend who is alternately shrewd and innocent, a strangely aloof playwright, and a neurotic gay who tries to escape his stigma by fashioning an impressive background for himself.

Their alliance as a group is an uneasy, often shaky one; their common foe is the desperation and hopelessness they all feel. As they literally dance off to rescue a compatriot after one of her innumerable suicide attempts, the whole episode takes on the aspect of a ludicrous game, an attempt to avoid reality.

The film’s crises come when reality can’t be kept away, and comes crashing in over their flimsy defenses. The film is seen mainly through the eyes of Larry and he seems to typify the predicament of his world, the Greenwich Village of the early Fifties. He is a jokester, an aspect of his character which his acting teacher tells him he must overcome if he is ever to have any serious chance of becoming an actor. One gets the impression that Mazursky strongly disagrees with this, as the view of Larry’s creativity which he gives us often takes on the aspect of the burlesque.

Relevance brings youth to

By JASON NOBLE
Staff Writer

Once again the spirit ascends and I’m transformed into Staff Writer, the mysterious being (right) who lurks in the shadows and writes this article. Once again, against insurmountable obstacles, another review comes forth, declaring the word, giving new insights, and putting my name in the paper (I’m only doing this for my grad school application).

One major theme that can usually be found in most any comic book is the importance of the individual; that is, it is possible for one man/woman to bring about a definite alteration of the existing conditions by their own capabilities. It would be false to say that teamwork does not exist in comics (e.g. Fantastic Four, JLA) but it must be conceded (I refuse to be proven wrong) that it is the unique and singular personality that ultimately decides the outcome (e.g. Avengers #145). With this in mind, this week’s review focuses on the “loners”.

Conan the Barbarian: famous of Robert E. Howard’s characters, Conan has seen great success and well deserves it. A hulking savage from the north, Conan pretty much makes his own rules and is usually quite consistent in seeing them followed. A quick temper and a quicker sword hand are his two most noticeable characteristics, though every so often a subtle showing ofOther qualities can be discovered (such as turning white upon seeing sorcery and making passes at local bar girls). As for the comic itself, consistently acceptable artwork and easily read dialogue are the standouts. The stories lack the originality of the earlier issues (this due mostly to the lack of Barry Smith as penciller) but for pure escapist reading without any relevancy whatsoever, it’s still one of the better titles out.

Red Sonja: A feminine Conan. To all you woman’s libbers, better luck next time (this one is too beat!).

Batman: There exists the possibility that there is no other figure in comic books that has more potential than the Batman. Created during the last days of the pulps (and one of the reasons for their demise), fashioned after the likes of the Shadow, the Spider, and Doc Savage, the Batman has remained the prototype of the loner superhero. A sinister spectre of the night, one couldn’t be sure whether he truly acted out of a feeling of justice or because he just enjoyed scaring the shit out of people. However, with the arrival of Robin, the aura of mystery was somewhat dissolved. During the “Golden Age” Batman stepped out of the night into the light of day and, gaining greater appeal, turned into the pure-hearted friend of the common man; one giant leap for profits, one greater leap for mediocrity. (This couldn’t be the same man who pumped 4 bullets into the inert “Monk.”)

This pathetic state of affairs managed to perpetuate its unworthy self until the advent of the “Era of Relevancy” (don’t take this too seriously). At this time (a blurry transition period taking place somewhere between 1968 and 1972—remember what comics happened then, don’t you?) the publishers discovered that by putting political comment (slight though it was) into their stories they obtained a whole new audience: the radical youth. The social relevance was at first as subtle as a Mack truck on a wet night, but soon a new breed of writing was conceived. Abrasive bluntness was replaced by a refinement, close to satire, that restored a fantastic atmosphere while keeping editorial comment. In the midst of this renaissance, Batman recaptured some of his lost eeriness; the shadowy demon whose very name could instill panic into the hearts of the underworld was again on the prowl. However, as luck (and probably sales) would have it, all this was to pass. The Batman is once more one of the “good guys,” yet every so often the fog creeps in, wooden planks squeak under some unknown weight, and the Batman stalks in the night.

Mark Armstrong and Lillian Gascoigne are accepting contributions of poetry, photography, and original art for Inside Art, which will run next week.

The film resembles Fellini’s 8½ with its emphasis on dreams, which we either see through Larry’s mind or through reality: one particularly memorable scene has Larry on a deserted railroad platform doing an imitation of Brando’s Stanley Kowalski. Lenny Baker as Larry is strikingly clown-like with his angular face and gangling movements.

One of the main ingredients of Larry’s dreams—and his nightmares—is his mother, portrayed by Shelley Winters in what has to be one of her finest performances to date. At base, her character is familiar stock: the worrying Jewish mother. But Winters manages to elaborate on the character and to give it three dimensions. As always, she is effective as a presence—important in this film—but she also elicits your sympathy as a human being.

The performances by those portraying Larry’s friends are very good, especially Ellen Greene as Sarah, his wisecracking but vulnerable girlfriend, and Christopher Walken as Robert, the playwright who, as Larry once comments, is “all surface.” Outstanding in a small role is Jeff Goldblum as an actor with a formal schooling background who is competing with Larry for a film role. His frustration at finding his background to be largely useless is effectively brought across.

Mazursky’s screenplay is not faultless: it sometimes threatens to sink into pathos. But whenever that danger arises, Mazursky’s taut direction and Baker’s fine performance manage to keep things afloat. The mood of the film’s ending is tantalizingly ambiguous and is testimony to the honesty that characterizes the whole work. For Mazursky, the artist is neither hero nor victim, but is merely a human being trying to overcome reality with laughter and beauty.