2 The Davidsonian February 13, 1976

Gift committee meets, cuts suggestion list to five

By ANDREW LAMAS
Staff Writer

Members of the Senior Class Gift Committee met Monday night to trim the large list of gift suggestions. “We narrowed the list from forty suggestions down to five. The suggestions are: framing college artwork, constructing an outdoor classroom and study facilities, purchasing a microfilm printer for the library, contributing to a low-cost Davidson community housing project, and establishing a gift fund to recognize outstanding work by hourly-paid employees on the Davidson College staff,” explained Committee Chairman Martin Eakes.

In hopes of selecting that gift idea which is most preferred by the senior class, members of the gift committee will attempt to contact every member of the senior class sometime this week. “We plan to ask each senior to select the three gift suggestions he or she would most like to see chosen as the senior class gift for 1976,” remarked Eakes. Then, on Monday, February 16, the Gift Committee will meet to select, from among the five suggestions, the senior class gift.

“The preference of seniors will be the major factor in determining the selection of the gift by our committee. Any senior who is not contacted by a member of the committee and who would like to express a preference for one of the gift suggestions, should contact me at 892-3188 before supper on Monday, February 16,” said Eakes.

The Committee Chairman provides in the following paragraphs some background information on each of the gifts.

College artwork: “Framing part of the college’s now unframed artwork would prepare these pieces for future display in the Fine Arts Building and on other display facilities if they become available. Also, it is important to frame this artwork to protect it from deterioration.”

Outdoor classroom and study facilities: “These facilities would give students and professors the opportunity to conduct classes on beautiful, sunny afternoons. This outdoor classroom would consist of benches and tables to accommodate about thirty students.”

Microfilm printer: “Ranging from $2300 to $3000 in price, this microfilm printer would allow members of the college community to make printed copies of materials from the college's microfilm collection. The strength of this idea rests in its direct usefulness to many students, professors, and others using the library.”

Munce discusses dwindling housing

[Continued from page 1]

Enrollment next September will be approximately 1300. Former SGA President John W. Munce commented on the decisions facing the Board of Trustees at their February meeting. “As I see it, there are three basic issues to be dealt with at the February meeting. First, the Trustees must decide if they are going to freeze enrollment for next year or not. Second, if they decide to freeze enrollment, they must decide at what level they want to freeze it. Finally, if they decide to freeze enrollment, they must decide what ratio of men to women they want,” said Munce.

“Current Trustee policy dictates that there be a minimum of 1000 men enrolled at Davidson. Four full classes of women is approximately 375,” he said. “If the Trustees set an enrollment ceiling at a point below 1375, Davidson cannot have both 1000 men and four full classes of women. Depending on the enrollment ceiling set, the enrollment of either men or women will have to be cut.” Munce continued by saying that the precedent for having less than 1000 men was set this year.

Nichols said that there is space for 1,041 students in the furnished rooms of the seven regular dorms plus the Carnegie Building, Grey House, Henderson House, Martin Manor, and North Main House. White commented that in meetings with College Business Manager Robert A. Currie, the subject of student housing had been discussed. “Mr. Currie indicated to me that there was some additional college-owned housing that he was planning to convert into housing for students,” said White.

Residence Hall Council (RHC) President Steven P. Cuffe summarized the feelings of the RHC on the issues of enrollment and housing. “Since raising the enrollment to 1300 or over would effectively force people off-campus who normally would not want to be, we strongly recommend that the Trustees stabilize...”enrollment at "the present level of 1250," said Cuffe. Community housing project: "This suggestion would involve contributing money to help buy a plot of land, provide building materials and possibly volunteer labor to help with the actual construction of a low-cost house for a family in Davidson. The appeal of this idea is that it addresses a real need in the Davidson community and may enable students, faculty, and the community to work together on a common goal outside of the academic setting." Gift fund for hourly-paid staff: "This fund would be used to provide recognition and a monetary expression of appreciation to those members of the Davidson College staff who deserve it but seldom receive it." Members of the Senior Class Gift Committee are: Martin Eakes, Dave Francis, Dave Mayberry, Don Benson, John Taylor, Bill Reed, Rick Roylance, Bobby Mendenhall, Hadley Wilson, and Cosby Swanson. David Arnold, Sherry Barlett, Roger Brown, Brian Coffey, Ed Ferren, Phil Gladden, Anne Harvey, Bill Hutchings, Mike Ichowlas, Nancy Long, Jane Perkins, Charlie Strange, Olivia Ware, Kathy Wilson. Alternatives: Susan Baynard, Bruce Darden, John Evans, Steve Justus, Barbara Payne. 1976-1977 Hall Counselors: D.C. Augustine, Nancy Brown, Meg Campbell, Joe Craig, Mary Gilliam, Scott Harbottle, Bruce Holliday, Bev Jones, Cathy Landis, Miller McClintock, Jay Silver, David Tinkler, Sam Weir, Thom Young, Kathy Bridges, Debbie Dillon, Kathy Golding, Jeff Metzel, Steve Smith.

Speakers present Title IX
By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

Jean Cary, a lawyer with Legal Aid in Charlotte, and Pat Edmundson, Professor of Political Science at Queens College, discussed Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 with students in an Open End Tuesday night. The statute provides "no person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance." It is the only all-encompassing federal law that prohibits sex discrimination against students. Secondary schools and institutions of higher learning have until 1978 to comply with the regulations, while elementary schools must regulate their policies within the year. Military and religious schools are exempt from this regulation and do not have to open to the other sex.

The regulations for Title IX can be categorized into five general areas: general matters concerning discrimination, admissions, treatment of students, employment, and procedures. The general provisions set up procedures institutions must follow to comply with the statute. The schools must evaluate their policies to see if they do discriminate and take whatever steps are needed to end this. An investigatory officer must be hired by the school to evaluate the discrimination. These steps must be kept on file. The institutions must publish grievance lists from both faculty and students of non-compliance with Title IX. In general, admissions must be non-discriminatory, but private undergraduate schools are exempt.

Scholarship monies must be pooled and students must be selected for financial aid in a non-discriminatory way. Single-sex scholarships (Rhodes Scholarships) may be kept if equal monies and similar opportunities are provided for the other sex. Athletic scholarships may be given if both sexes are given reasonable opportunities for scholarships. Both sexes must be given comparable housing facilities and courses. Discriminatory dress or conduct regulations cannot be made. In athletics, both sexes must be given comparable opportunities in both team participation and monies. Separate teams are allowed in contact sports, and ability is used as the determinant for non-contact teams. Employment must not be sex-discriminatory, either in recruitment, advertising, or actual hiring. Violations of Title IX are to be reported to the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

Cary and Edmundson found three "mushy" areas in Title IX: the employment of an investigatory officer, the term "comparable" in the athletic regulation, and the enforcement procedures. According to Edmundson, a school chooses its investigatory officer, and so can hire someone who will overlook discriminatory policies and practices. "Comparable" has not been defined by the courts, so a complaint based on the athletic provision could prove too weak to be rectified in the courts.