Vol. LXVI, No. ONE Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036 Circ. this issue 13,800 September 17, 1976

Martin renovation again delayed. See story on page 2.

EPC decides to terminate Extended Studies programs

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

The Davidson College Educational Policy Committee (EPC) voted in late May to recommend the discontinuation of the Extended Studies program,
on all levels, effective September 1977, according to Chairman of the Extended Studies Committee, Hansford M. Epes, Jr.

“The EPC has been charged with studying the whole program of the college and this is only one part of
it,” said Vice-President for Academic Affairs and Chairman of the EPC, Frontis W. Johnston. “We expect to have the whole
thing completed before Christmas, but we are not ready to release anything right now. We’ve made no final decisions about
it.”

“They (EPC) voted provisionally and tentatively to recommend Extended Studies to be terminated after this year,” Epes said. “The implication
is that they will vote again, but if so, why did they vote in the first place?”

According to Epes, two faculty members will be elected during faculty elections this month to replace outgoing members of the
EPC. Also, one new student member will be added to replace Sam Crawford. After this election, the committee will hold
a revote on Extended Studies, and recommend the proposal to the faculty for their vote. The vote of the faculty
is the determining vote, unless President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., overrides the decision.

Several years ago, the faculty voted 2-1 to maintain the Extended Studies program, according to Epes. Dr. J. Harris Proctor
and Andrew Lamas, members of the EPC, interviewed Epes, Dr. John J. Young, and Dr. Randall Rich Kincaid, Jr., the
three senior members of the Extended Studies Committee “at the directive of Dr. Spencer and the faculty,” Epes said, concerning
Extended Studies. “They were looking into a number of programs that are not regular courses of study,” Epes said. “My
own attitude, what I told them, is that it’s a high-risk program; you can get away with murder for credit.”

[see EXTENDED, page 3]

PE Department institutes new pay-as-you-go policy

By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

The Physical Education Department has adopted a pay-as-you-go policy for athletic uniforms, equipment, and rental of storage space. This plan
replaces the old system of uniforms, a basket and lock for storage purposes, and the availability of sports equipment to
all students at no cost. The plan was originally suggested by College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. as a means
of cutting waste while expanding the range of athletic programs into new areas due to increased interests and co-education.

“I was looking at it as a way of saving money and putting it where it would be more meaningful,”
said Spencer.

Factors behind Spencer’s suggestion included the underutilization of the old system by students. The entire system was geared to the
needs of twenty years ago when Physical Education classes were a part of the curriculum for all students, according to
Spencer.

The official Physical Education Department notice, which has not yet been distributed to students, cites the problem of theft as
the reason for the change, but fails to mention any of the reasons put forth by Spencer. The memo, issued
by Dr. Raymond Stone, Director of Physical Education, details the new policy and includes a price list for clothing and
equipment. The loss due to theft has been estimated by Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch at over$3,820 for clothing alone
and combined with equipment the total loss approaches $6,000. Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill called the new policy a “consolidation of
efficiency in response to a lack of personnel and lost equipment.” Cartmill stated that the decision had been jointly reached
by himself, Couch, Stone, and track coach Sterling Martin. However, Martin commented that the decision was more of a “top
down” decision to which the rest of the department agreed. Regarding the input of Spencer into the decision, Cartmill said
Spencer’s suggestion was in the form of an “informal conversation rather than a mandate.” Stone stated that student involvement in
the change was “moderate at most.” Cartmill elaborated, saying that students were not available this summer but, “I’d be delighted
to get student input.” Ed Reese, sophomore, who chairs a liaison committee between the Student Government Association and the Athletic
Department, stated, “He (Cartmill) hasn’t said a word to me. There has been a distinct lack of communication between the
department and students.” There is no clear agreement within the department as to why such losses have occurred because normally
each student is held responsible for whatever equipment he checks out. When Cartmill was asked why [see PE, page 3]

College seeks $35 million to fund the future
By BILL HOLLADAY
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday Davidson College revealed its plans for a ten-year fund-raising program with the largest goal in Davidson’s long history
of fund-raising: $35 million. The program is designed to culminate in 1987, the college’s 150th anniversary year. The college outlined
its plans for the money, which will provide mostly for endowment, improving the physical plant, and annual operations costs, but
did not state how the funds will be raised.

SPECIAL!!
If you are not subscribing to THE DAVIDSONIAN, this is a complimentary edition for you. Please see the back cover
for subscription details.

College president Samuel R. Spencer Jr. made the official announcement at the office of North Carolina Governor James Holshouser, who
is to be the national chairman of the drive, on September 8, followed by a reception at the Governor’s mansion
in Raleigh. Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk (’31) was named honorary chairman, and chairman of trustees Dr. Warner Hall,
along with the Trustee Development Committee, was asked to supervise the program’s progress. At the reception, Davidson’s new vice-president for
development, Duane Dittman, remarked that he was unable to fully explain the fund drive and how it would work but
expressed confidence in Davidson as an institution. Trustee Hall described himself as an “alien” to Davidson but echoed Dittman’s praise
of the school. Hall suggested that the college need not raise any money to remain open but said that $35
million would help to improve the school, “keeping it one of the fine institutions of its kind.”

Spencer explained that the money from the drive would be divided among four priority areas, as established by the 1974-75
study of college objectives by the Goals Committee. These are as follows:
$6 million for physical plant improvements such as renovation of Martin Science Building, new fine arts and athletic facilities, and
improvements in student housing, dining services, and the college shop.
$8 million for student scholarships, experiential learning, work-study programs, and other forms of financial aid.
$11 million for academic endowment, faculty research, international study, the Honors Center, library book purchases, and interdisciplinary courses.
$10 million for relieving the effects of inflation on the college’s annual operating budget, an unexciting but necessary precaution.

Spencer said the program “is designed to guarantee...the continuing financial stability of the college and its work of high quality
in educating young men and women.”
