the davidsonian
September 24, 1976

Title IX: slippery, unctuous

Adherence to Title IX of the 1972 Education Amendments has begun at Davidson College, but no one anywhere really knows what that means. Equality! Fairness! and Provisions for the discriminated against! are the cloying battle cries. These are tossed in amongst the numerous directions on how to complain and who to see if you have a grievance. But the real problem is in reading Title IX and deciphering what it means. “No person...shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation...,” it says. However, it also says, “with certain exceptions, the law bars sex discrimination in...” These “certain exceptions” earn Title IX its most accurate description and its most popular complaint.

Title IX is ambiguous. It cannot be read, it must be interpreted. This essentially means that no institution can decide for itself what it means to comply with Title IX. Without dragging things to court, there will never be a clear-cut compliance. Also, the extreme ambiguity of Title IX suggests that there will never be a national norm for compliance. Some states will be more strict than others and some districts within the states will be stricter still. But this still fails to strike at the worst problem. Under the system of ambiguity, in a grievance who wins? In the advent of a strongly opinionated student body and a weak Title IX grievance committee, the weak committee might be man-handled into investigating too many insignificant and unsubstantiated claims of discrimination. In the case of a strong and stubborn committee, it might be students with genuine needs that are turned away and ignored. In either case, the culprit is the ambiguity of Title IX itself. The document can be bent to include unimportant things or to exclude genuine gripes. Title IX will do nothing, its interpreters all.

We request that the Title IX coordinators at Davidson, Mary Lou Dietler and Robert J. Stephenson, remain conscious at all times of the latent dangers of Title IX. We ask that these people realize that to operate by the letter of the law is in this case to be ruled by a quivering tar-baby. It is imperative that the Title IX coordinators cover as much ground and handle as many grievances as possible. Students must realize that Title IX means to serve them in spirit and, accepting this spirit, students must try to make use of it. Hopefully, as more rulings are handed down, the language will be firmed up.

Sophomores Lynn Langley and Pat Dulaney are recipients of the R. Windley Hall Award for Freshmen writing for 1976. Their work is published in the edition of Inklings being circulated now.

Matthew Covington ................. Editor
Managing Editor ................... Jeff Sich
Business Manager .................. Tod Unz
Photography Editor ................ Irv Wilson
Production Manager ............... Susan Colan
Editorial Page Editor ............. Richard Boyce
Asst. News Editors ............... Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan
Sports Editors .................... Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall
Features Editors .................. Dave Keller & Cathy Landis
Advertising Manager .............. Upton
Circulation Manager .............. 

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

"What's new, guys? ... The ‘new’ paper ... that's what's new."

Overcrowding breeds multi-faceted dilemma
By BILL BARNETT
Staff Writer

One of the major advantages a small school has to offer is its size. Davidson has always prided itself on this point. Our enrollment allows us to have small classes and, until recently, uncrowded living conditions. Unfortunately, this year several problems have cropped up. Twelve freshmen men have been forced to live off-campus in the Julia Johnston House. Four freshmen women have been forced to live on a hall in Little with the rest...of their hallmates being upperclassmen. Finally, six upperclassmen who paid their $100 deposit last spring, guaranteeing them an on-campus room, do not yet have a room and are being forced to live in the Bevan House temporarily.

The problem involving the freshmen men is essentially a very simple one. There are rooms in Cannon and Richardson dorms which will house 259 men plus a set of hall counselors for every floor. Last spring, H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions, informed Scotty Nichols, Director of Student Housing, that there were so many qualified applicants that he planned to admit over 280 freshmen men. Mrs. Nichols was then forced to scramble all over campus in an attempt to find housing for these extra men. The normal attrition occurred over the summer, but in September there were still 272 freshmen males at school. Thus, there was no choice but to put twelve of them off-campus, and one even had to commute every day from Mooresville.

Although these freshmen seem to like their situation well enough, and the one commuter is now in a dorm, almost every upperclassman would agree that they are missing a vital experience. How can you have a water fight with the hall upstairs if there is no hall upstairs? Instead of having 125 people in your building to meet and enjoy, they have only twelve. The limitations are obvious.

The problem for the women on Second Little originated the same way. Mr. White accepted more women than he had room for on five halls in Watts and Little, but less than he had room for on the sixth. All of the women on this “unfortunates” hall are upperclassmen, and the women designated as their hall counselors live on the third floor. Surely these hall counselors have been conscientious about including the other four women in hall activities, but somehow something is missing. The spontaneous relationships just don’t fall into place so easily.

The problem of the upperclassmen who don’t have rooms is not quite so simple. Rising enrollment is part of the problem. As anyone can plainly see, a rising enrollment and a stable number of rooms available means that more and more students will be pushed off-campus who don’t want to go. In this case, two of the upperclassmen without rooms are transfer students who know very few people at Davidson, and will have only limited opportunities to do so until they get a room. They are somewhat bewildered and depressed at the whole situation. Two others have been told repeatedly they would get a room, and they will as soon as possible. However, the inconvenience all of these students have suffered will not be remedied simply by moving them into a room next month.

One solution to the problem of upperclass housing might be to raise the amount of the deposit due in the spring, or to make another deposit due on June 1st. Perhaps students would be a little more hesitant to change their rooming plans abruptly if a greater amount of money was involved. This way, students could know at the first of June whether or not they would have a room and could plan accordingly.

The solution to the problem of freshman overcrowding will have to originate in the Admissions Office. As long as Mr. White chooses to admit more freshmen than there is room for, then a small number of these freshmen will have to suffer the consequences of his ineptitude. Also, more and more upperclassmen will suffer. Classes will become crowded. Students will be unable to get into fraternities and eating clubs because there is no room. Drop-add lines will get longer. Problems will compound all over campus.

A choice will soon have to be made. Either enrollment must be stabilized at a tolerable level, or more students will have to live off-campus. Allowing enrollment to rise does have some substantial benefits, and this is not an argument merely against increased enrollment. It is instead a plea for some firm policy to be established, and for steps to be taken to remedy the problems which have already occurred.