The Davidsonian, March 12, 1976

He explained his poem on minority
Masten vibrates with joy and confidence

By ANNE PELFREY
Associate Editor

Ric Masten, clad in faded jeans and toting his guitar, walked briskly into the Morrison Room. His graying golden hair
flapped about his ears as he made his way to the front of the room to face his audience. Masten,
the poet, bears a surprising resemblance to an evangelist. But the likeness can be heard in his voice, not seen
in his appearance. As he read and sometimes sang his poetry Monday night from 8:00 until 9:15 p.m., his voice
vibrated with joy and confidence. He spoke several times of “being born again” and even promised his audience new vision.
“By the time it gets around to quarter after nine you might see better,” he said.

Just what the audience saw were visions gathered from a melange of the poet’s ideas. In a California accent, Masten
spun tales with concerns ranging from marital problems to minority relations to dirty words “like hate and war.” Seated in
the audience, a middle-aged woman with dark bushy hair smiled knowingly as Masten poked with gentle humor at the world’s
troubles. She is Masten’s wife and she sang with him as he accompanied on guitar a song about a troubled
married couple. “We were once like them” were part of the lyrics they sang as they smiled at each other.
Masten explained that he and his wife had become estranged when their children had grown up, but now they were
again happy together. Throughout the reading, the poet continued to reveal similar hard times through which he had struggled.

Up and coming features
Amelia Dockery

The 900 Room will be the scene of a multi-lingual Poetry Fair on Tuesday, March 16. The reading, coordinated by
Dr. Amelia Dockery of the Psychological Counseling Staff, will feature 12 reciting poems in fifteen different languages. Members of the
faculty, the community, and the student body will present examples of Sanskrit, Old English and Irish, and Provencal dialects. Modern
European languages, Classical Greek and Latin, Japanese, and Standard English verse will also be represented, with musical interludes.

“This is an attempt to tell people how it is possible to tune in with anybody even if you do
not know their language,” said Dockery. “It is an experience in communication, a sensorial experience. We are not just listening
to a poem in Sanskrit, but we are also sensing the reader’s feelings. This reading grew out of the feeling
of the group that there is no special time to speak a poem,” said Dockery. “We want people to feel
free to stay for ten or fifteen minutes, or for the entire program. I don’t want people to feel they’ve
got to stay for the whole reading.” The program will be at 8:00 Tuesday night. It will be free, open
to the public, and refreshments will be served.

Paul Edris

Dr. Paul M. Edris, Moderator of the 115th General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S., will be...On campus
Sunday, March 14, Dr. Edris will preach Sunday morning in the College Church and Presbyterian Church and hold an open-end
discussion that afternoon at 2:30 in the Morrison Room in the Union. Students are especially invited to the discussion along
with faculty and community members. Representatives of Presbyterian churches across the South elected Edris last June at the opening session
of their annual General Assembly meeting in Charlotte’s Civic Center. As moderator, Edris acts as the church’s ambassador around the
world, visiting seminaries, congregations, and mission fields. In fact, he left his home in Daytona Beach, Florida, on February 12
as part of a tour which eventually brings him to Davidson on Sunday.

Dr. Edris graduated from Louisville Theological Seminary in 1935 and holds his Doctorate of Divinity from Maryville College. From 1939
to 1975, he pastored the First Presbyterian Church of Daytona Beach. He also ministered in his community through the Rotary
Club, YMCA, Ministerial Association, Aero Club, Chamber of Commerce, Interracial Advisory Board, and as chaplain of the Seabreeze High School
Football Team. Edris helped to bring Florida Presbyterian College (now Eckerd College) into being and is now on their Board
of Trustees. He married Jane Alice Glascock and they have two sons.

Masten spoke of his father’s death. “I knew he loved me and he knew I loved him, but we never
told each other. You have to make the scenes to remember them. That’s why when you get out of here
tonight you ought to make that phone call to that special person,” he said as he pointed his fingers at
his listeners. The poet’s moralizing was obvious. But it was softened with humor when he spoke of dwarf relations: “Dwarves
probably have the most stable personalities of anybody. They spend so much time putting the taller people at ease that
they don’t worry about their own misery,” he said.

In a world where hard circumstances often inflict pain upon the sensitive, there is a need to become somewhat calloused,
according to Masten. “I once knew a ditch digger who bled to death in a trench because he could not
grow a callous. I need my thick skin,” he said. Yet Masten pointed out the danger of becoming too calloused.
You might forget that you have callouses and consequently forget to feel, according to Masten. Also, if you do not
allow yourself to grow callouses and continue to peel away the thick skin, you can become too sensitive to hurt
and live in what Masten terms a “half truth.”

Despite all of his preaching, Masten made only one reference to God. In one of his closing songs, he sang
these lyrics: "...in our dreams, songs, and poetry the voice of the High calling us home."

JOEL OPPENHEIMER, Village Voice columnist, tried hard to enlighten Davidson students Wednesday.

- Laura Moses

Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
892-0208
Peregrine House
Davidson, NC
892-8686
115 N. Main

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Little Big Man
Friday, Mar. 12
8 & 10:30 P.M.
Love $1.00
First Union National. DAVIDSON
