_ November 5, 1976

Staff Writer

It was 4 a.m., November 3, 1976, and the newly elected President of the United States had just delivered his victory speech. A sense of relief, a smile filled with memories of the tension of the last several hours, was evident.

Letter to the Editor

Student body lacks power

To the Editor:

The student body should be the seed-bed of the revolution, not the death-bed of democracy. The SGA Senate, in its implementation of a “good habit,” has endorsed a policy of representative filtration which completely ignores the democratic crises facing the Davidson student institution—its powers are limited and its vision is short-sighted. The visitation is doomed to fail as a result.

It is impossible for a student’s opinion to be voiced and considered if he is to rely on a senator who must search him out, include his recommendations and ideas on a list containing the views of thirty odd people, submit all of these ideas to the senate for discussion, and then report the results to the individuals concerned. This is not democracy. It is an absurd imitation of executive structures of power; absurd, because any student organization at Davidson is the subject of scant attention, and at times scorn, by the Ruling Class: the Administration and the Board of Trustees.

The student body of Davidson is small enough, and its members can be conscious enough, to implement a policy of democracy, if they can be aware enough to be done with ridiculous gestures that make a mockery of our time here and courageous enough to stand up and demand the powers which should of right be ours.

I realize that we are faced with these three problems at Davidson today. The senate is a weak institution. The individual student is seldom given a real chance to voice his ideas in front of his peers. The student body should be the student government, and the student union should house its members. So, conduct the senate hearings at the 900 Room at the Union—a place which should be our Freedom Hall and our Woodstock—where as many students as possible could gather and make decisions on central issues. Each student should have the right to vote; and each senator should have the right to introduce the issue and the student who wishes to speak on it.

Our Senate is no different from the English Parliament immediately after the signing of the Magna Carta, as far as power is concerned. Why don’t we students demand that the four years which we must spend here be governed according to the dictates of our own desires?

On historic Tuesday night and early Wednesday morning, I couldn’t help but reflect on the causes and circumstances of this Carter victory. Carter won this election because the people, yes, ordinary people, liked his ideas for change. The American people surely won this election. For it took their support, the blacks, and blue-collar, lower-middle income people, who had nothing more in common with Jimmy Carter than his desire for change and compassion.

I am proud to be an American. Our system does work. The fact we have elected a man unfamiliar with national politics to be our leader for the next four years is a tribute to the power and influence given to the common man in our government. The people of America have spoken. They wanted a change to which the others will have to respond in a balanced forging of school policy.

There will be those who will challenge my position. It is unfortunate that I will be answered only in the pages of the Davidsonian, and not over a beer in the Union on the SGA convention nights.If we are worthy of the trust which is given to us by our American heritage, we can step forth from the piedmont of attainment and let other students throughout the nation know that we are progressive, intelligent, and diligent defenders of democracy, that we are concerned with the problems which plague our students and citizens, and that we are willing to fight for the freedom that is slipping from our grasp.

Jay Coward ’77
Davidson College

and through our system of government were able to achieve their goals. This is the greatness of America: the freedom and right to elect a government pleasing to the people.

The next four years will have the potential to be an era of tremendous progressive social reform. For 22 ated his goal: a fair and equal tax system, reduced unemployment, reduced bureaucracy, a balanced budget, and National Health Insurance. He appealed to the people of America affected by these same issues to eliminate. This is the simple, basic explanation for Carter’s victory: he went to the people, and they chose him.

There are now questions as to President-elect Carter’s ability to achieve the goals he has set for himself. I believe President Carter will attack the social problems he has recognized with as much determination, organization, and genius as he attacked the problem of convincing America of the validity of his candidacy.

The main themes of Carter’s campaign have been traditional, Democratic ones. He wants to improve our nation’s schools, and he has hollered loud and long about the inequalities of our present tax structure. He wants to help the poverty-stricken members of our society, and expand the role of government in stabilizing the economy. However, Carter has also touched on some traditional Republican ideas. He wants to reform the structure of government to make it more effective. He wants to cut federal spending, but he wants to do it without sacrificing any social programs. He will do this by seeing that the money is spent more efficiently. He also wants to cut down the welfare rolls.

For him to succeed in reforming our nation’s ills he needs our trust and faith again. For no American politician today appreciates more the power of trust placed in one individual by the people than Jimmy Carter. In his victory speech Wednesday morning, he asked for our help, faith, and prayers. Don’t be bitter that we are stuck with the next administration for four years. Let’s respect the choice of America. Let’s all give President Carter the faith and trust that he needs. I am positive we will not be disappointed.

Tremendous possibilities exist

concerns Davidson (and I don’t mean the student body in the form of the SGA president), asked its opinion, and its decision should be accepted as vote No. 1 in a three-way decision-making process.

The students at Davidson do not take the initiative concerning important matters which concern us as students and as the new generation of American citizens. This is due to the above-mentioned problems: the individual student feels helpless, and the body of students is powerless. If we have the power and if we are united democratically—not side-stepped by representative bureaucracy—we can carve out a policy of our own.

(Continued from page 4)

A student who sees things differently is the odd-ball at Davidson. If we are to admit students with the chance to make a difference, then we must provide them with the proper forum for doing so. This is not to say we need to re-structure the school. It is to harp again on a suggestion prevalent on these pages. Davidson must discover a method of intellectual communion outside the classroom. At present the void is inadequately filled by the Open End program. To become effective, the Open End must become habitual for students. To become habitual, the Open End must be a regular occurrence, perhaps a weekly occurrence. Some weeks might include a program while other weeks could be thrown open to general discussions on all subjects. The success of such a forum is imperative.