the davidsonian
October 29, 1976

Many things at Davidson operate under a "low profile." A strong student political undercurrent. A widespread fervor for social concerns. An overriding involvement in the affairs of the "outside world." Such "things," however, operate under a low profile for quite a simple reason. Namely, they don’t exist.

There are, however, other quite tangible activities at Davidson which also operate under "low profiles." These organizations plod on, but, through no choice of their own, remain unrecognized excepting foul-ups. Such, perhaps, is the situation of the SGA. Such, indeed, is the dilemma of the YMCA. It continues to operate. It remains unknown.

There are two fates open to such an organization. First, it can simply disappear. Second, in the absence of up-to-date information, it becomes labeled with the inherited rumors and clichés of the past. The second, once again, seems the plight of the "Y." Whether labeled as "do-gooders," "Jesus freaks," or "stagnant idealists," those involved with YMCA activities seem continually classed as a group over and away from the rest of the campus, constantly busying themselves about vague and unproductive tasks. While surfacing occasionally to plague one with pleas for contributions or raucous STEP "tut-tees," the "YMCA’ers," in general, are envisioned, if at all, as leading lives of "fruitless agitation." Such, of course, may serve as adequate representation for some of those concerned. However, for the majority, though it is by no means a vast majority, such generalizations just ain’t so.

At the beginning of this year, in its annual fund drive, the YMCA netted a fairly sizable sum for such a venture ($1,373.18 to be exact). This money came from both students and faculty by means of a harassed core of "collectors." Contrary to widespread belief, this money did not mysteriously disappear. It was not even, as is also often postulated, "squandered haphazardly." Instead, through the direction of the YMCA officers and advisors, this money has and is being used to fund a number of productive, and tangible, goals and programs. According to its own definitions, the Y’s goals are a three-fold enrichment: of town/student community life, of educational

SGA Senate begins implementation of good habit

Very rarely can a column on these editorial pages deal with every issue that involves Davidson students. In order to do so, each student would have to be allowed an opportunity to voice his or her opinion or problem. The problems that many students share as well as the trivial ideas of a few would have to be included and accorded equal space. In fact, there is no way for this newspaper to do these things. The only way that we can cover everything that students are concerned with is to write about a group that has undertaken to check with students individually about the issues that involve students. The SGA Senate is such an organization.

This is the first week of implementation for the Senate’s visitation policy. According to this policy, each student will be visited three times a term by a senator who will listen to the recommendations and ideas of the student, submit these ideas to the entire Senate for discussion, and then get back to the person with some report involving the implementation of that student’s ideas. We see the Senate policy as a positive thing and as a system that has been needed at Davidson for some time. In order for it to be fully successful, however, the students and senators involved will have to maintain their interests during this difficult time of organization. As the policy is allowed to continue, it will become more smooth and, with luck, should become one of Davidson’s best habits.

The Davidsonian
Matthew Covington.......... Editor
Jeff Sich.................. Business Manager
Bill Barnett............... Photography Editor
Bruce Holladay & Amanda Hall.. Production Managers
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins.. News Editors
Rob Mitchell............... Editorial Page Editor
Susani Golen............... Sports Editor
DBVR GOON................. Features Editor
DOVE TIBGO@L.............. Asst. News Editors
SIVAVVIIBOMN.............. Advertising Manager
Fhe....................... Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.life, and of social life. The implementation of these broad categories is carried out through funding and organization of specifics. The STEP program, due to its visibility, is the most widely recognized and, subsequently, most consistently supported of the Y’s community efforts. While the relative success of this big-brother, big-sister program is definitely positive, its equation with the Y is not. The Y, while many things, is not a “one-shot” deal. That this is so is demonstrated graphically by the simple fact that the STEP receives substantially less than half of the Y's funds. Again the question returns, “Where does it go?”

To begin, the Y’s community theme of inter-involvement is continued and expanded through such programs as those of the gym in the new North Meck YMCA, the Depot Coffee House for high-schoolers, the Housing Project for the less affluent, the annual celebration of Town Day, and the weekly anti-hunger “Share A Meal.” Furthermore, the Y’s educational goals of enrichment are focused on the dual programs of symposiums and discussion groups; the first a nominally formal approach to interesting topics (for example, “Death and Dying”) through outside speakers, the second a decidedly anti-formal approach to “stimulating” topics through the development of weekly “small groups.” Lastly, the Y’s social goals of good times and/or escape are met through the weekly gatherings of the Thursday Lunch Group, the annual shenanigans of the Spring Celebration, the mysterious activities of a professedly childish “Weirdo Group,” and the self-organized outlet of weekend retreats.

Such a list, as with most lists, again leaves one feeling cold and distant. Knowing the Y funds programs is not enough. What one must realize is that the Y is run and supported by students and, furthermore, by students whose interests, outside of concern, vary little from anyone else’s. That the Y is unrecognized as continuous with the rest of the college as a whole lies not in any inherent peculiarity of its members or its programs. To some degree, as previously stated, its isolation might be explained by lack of publicity or predominance of clichés. But, ultimately, the Y stands apart because that is what the uninvolved desire. That which remains unfamiliar makes no demands on one’s time. If one can make oneself believe an otherwise useful program is ineffectual, one feels no compulsion to join.

The Y, as evidenced, is doing something. Through funds and programs it is, at least, “confronting” its goals. But the Y stands finally as only a “facilitator.” A facilitator needs someone “to facilitate.” Yes, the Y is, at present, “low profile.” It may remain so. The real choice lies neither with the college newspapers’ publicity nor the Y’s officers’ dedication. The Y will remain “removed” as long as the majority believe it to be. It will remain “ineffectual” only so long as that is also your response.

Davidson needs Jesus

To the Editor:

Davidson College no longer knows its Lord. How could it possibly know itself? The editorial last week made some accurate observations about the present lack of community at Davidson, but failed to understand the root of the problem. It dealt only with the symptoms and while symptoms are important in leading to the cause of a particular disease, full health is rarely restored by treatment of symptoms alone. Time and again the original pathogen will regain control over a weakened body. This cycle of partial health and overwhelming sickness continues until either the patient dies or the pathogen is destroyed.

The editor correctly observed that in many groups on campus, “any feeling of membership between members has been supplanted by feelings of individualism and selfishness.” My question is this: will an exchange of ideas (the solution proposed by the editor) be sufficient to change our hearts? For it is there, in the core of our personalities, that individualism and selfishness arise. Can any of us truthfully claim the power to change another's heart, or the ability to totally restructure another’s priorities and goals in life? Yet this is the change needed among us at Davidson before true community can exist.

I say to you plainly that only Jesus of Nazareth has claimed the power to do this and then demonstrated it in the lives of men and women. There will be no genuine and inward change in the Davidson “community” unless individuals desire to turn away from selfishness and submit (a hard word for proud, 20th-century man) to being servants of Jesus the Messiah, the Lord of the Universe.

Hervey Froehlich '77
Davidson College