January 16, 1976

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FIGHT SONG AND ALMA MATER

Words by E.H. Hamilton ’17
Music by B. Earnest Shields ’20

Oh Davidson, you are the best old college in the east or west.
You play a fair game, you play a square game, and you'll win in everything.
And when that red and black machine is out to fight and looking mean,
then I am happy as for you I sing:

[Chorus]
Oh Davidson, we will down them; down them every one!
Oh Davidson, we will conquer ere the day is done.
RAH! RAH! RAH!
Down every foe, then as through their lines we run-
Win for the honor of old Davidson!

By BARBARA PAYNE
Staff Writer

“I feel that most of my pictures are people-oriented. Included are other elements which are of visual beauty, but primarily
I enjoy the results of being involved with people, whether they are of contrivance or ‘slice of life’.” --Tom Walters

Thomas Walters demonstrates a warm and deep understanding of human concern. His photographs, on exhibit in the Cunningham Fine Arts
Center through January 28, firmly grasp and immortalize the reality of human experience. All of Walters’ subjects implicate the familiar,
communicating tangible emotion. Memory becomes the media and the camera becomes the vehicle of capture of an instant of manipulation.

Walters frequently focuses on imperfection in man and in his natural surroundings, shown particularly well in his tree studies. The
trees are old, gnarled, and scarred. One tree supports its own dead limb, seemingly favoring it above all other limbs
while growing acutely aware of its burden. At the foot of the tree lie new growths—possibly offspring—which flourish under its
protective branches. Idiosyncrasies of nature become contiguous to human failings.

Walters’ portraits are both natural and flattering. An exceptionally fine portrait is of an older man of scholarly characteristics, reflected
in his wizened and perhaps saddened eyes. Creases of worry, toil, and smiles are permanently etched onto his face. His
expression is ambiguous (a predominant quality in all of Walters’ portraits), vacillating between a mournful, angry, and judicious stare and
an affectionate and unassuming gaze.

Many of Walters’ photographs are pedagogical in nature, drawing mundane analogies and drawing attention to small but important facets of
day-to-day living. His approach seems similar to that of Horatian satire, and we chuckle at the recognition of our own
foibles. A woman bedecked in formal dress finds her reflection in a window and pats down a few loose hairs—unaware
that she is being observed through that very window. A Siamese kitten perched atop a pedestal appears to be eyeing
a dead rat caught in a Victor mouse trap in a neighboring picture. The kitten’s work is obviously cut out
for him.

One very striking photograph is that of a Duke Power employee caught in torrential rain, seemingly enjoying his predicament. Depicted
is a man who has ensnared the power of water, but a man who also thoroughly understands and stands in
awe of its natural force.

An elderly man, ensconced comfortably in a rocking chair on a Victorian porch, emits a sense of pride and contentment.
An American flag dominates the photograph. Adjacent to this happy scene is a young man wrapped in the flag, which
forms a cocoon about him. He struggles in vain to set himself free from his suppressive environment.

In contrast, a Siamese cat...

ALL HAIL, OH DAVIDSON [Alma Mater]
G.M. Maxwell, M.C.
Arranged by James C. PfohlVenable

Inanimate subjects also portray human qualities, being objects made by man. A traffic light, caught in mid-yellow, is losing a
small strip of metal. A man holds tiny wires, probably complex in structure and analogous to the complexity of the
human hand in which they are held. Some of Walters’ photographs seem posed and others seem accidental or coincidental. Both
approaches are equally effective. He captures the unrehearsed delight of a child discovering a turtle and the vanity of a
young woman who is oblivious to being observed. A rather perturbed fellow gives the finger, perhaps to disapprove of individual
taste as he flaunts his astonishing garb. He is an actor—obviously very aware that he is being photographed—but his statement
is thoroughly poignant.

Several photographs are superimposed with the vague figure of a woman. Each depicts a place of possible familiarity to the
photographer: a piano, bedroom, bathroom, and a group of trees. The woman is active in each picture, seeming to physically
mingle with her surroundings. She is perhaps a memory, immortalized by objects with which she once came in contact—this being
a manifestation of Walters’ main artistic statement.

Walters’ contrast of tone and contour are excellent. Lines in his photographs are clear and concise, emphasizing shadow and shading
effects. This is particularly apparent in one of two still-life photographs. Pictured are eggs, a creamer, and a sugar bowl.
All the objects are white and can only be defined by reflection and the contrasting greys of shadow.

Walters is a graduate of Mars Hill and Wake Forest Colleges and is a native North Carolinian. He retired from
his position on The Charlotte Observer in 1961 in order to explore “more adventurous pursuits in advertising and editorial photography.”
Walters’ work has been extensively published in various magazines and has been exhibited throughout Virginia, North Carolina, and South Carolina.
He has been named Southern Photographer of the Year three times.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS:
Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer—North Carolina’s nationally recognized coastal boys’ and girls’ camps on Pamlico Sound near Atlantic Beach
and New Bern. 29th season. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship plus all usual camping activities (including skin-diving and golf
course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer). Opportunities for students (college men and women), coaches, and teachers who
are looking for more than a “summer job.” Openings for NURSES (RN). June 8—August 20. We seek highly qualified individuals
(ability to instruct in one phase of camp’s program), exemplary character, and offer good salaries, room, and board. Apply to:
Taylor, Director. Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605. Quick response is appreciated. Please include a brief
resume of training and experience in the area(s) of the camp program in which you are best qualified to instruct.

All hail, oh Davidson! Our dear old Alma Mater. Our fathers loved thee, gave their best to thee. And still
today their loyal sons and daughters follow them on and pledge their loyalty!

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030
