dhe david. s April 30, 1976

THROUGH THE NET. John Trout - Pete Goodman practices on the hard courts in preparation for the Southern Conference Tournament beginning today.

Netters approach tournament 20-6

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Tennis team dominated the Southern Conference in the late 60’s and early 70’s, but the most recent championship team was the 1973 team. The Davidson netters enter the Southern Conference Tournament this weekend as slight favorites. The team sports a 7-0 conference record and is 20-6-1 overall.

Coach Jeff Frank is optimistic about the tennis team’s chances, yet he realizes it could finish no better than third. The main reason for a poor finish is that the Davidson players are used to playing on the slower clay court, but the tournament will be played on the faster hard surface courts. Some of the close matches the team won on clay surfaces could very easily be lost on the hard surface courts.

“We are coming to grips with the hard courts now, due to eight days of practice on them,” Frank explained. “We cannot prepare much more, our performances will depend on our confidence, and not the style of court.”

Frank hopes to have four number one seeds in the tournament. He expects John Mitchell, Steve Holman, and Brian Cooper will be seeded first in their division. According to his coach, Holman has the best chance of winning the championship, for he beat each of his conference opponents in straight sets this year. The number 3 doubles team of Holman and Steve Johnson should also be a number 1 seed. The number 1 doubles team of Boswell and Bondurant will be seeded fourth, yet Frank feels these two sophomores have the best chance of winning in doubles.

THE CHOICE OF CHAMPIONS
OD
‘KNIT SHIRTS
also from...
MUNSINGWEAR
JANTZEN
SERO
VANHEUSEN
HANES

DAVIDSONIANS!
Use Your Automatic Charge Account at John Beck & Son
Only 6 miles North - Mooresville

Citadel drops Cat trackmen championships fill weekend

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

The Wildcat trackmen ended their regular season with a record of 2-4 Saturday when they fell to the Citadel 87-76 in a dual meet held here. The meet was close from the start, but in the end the Citadel’s greater number of first places edged out Davidson’s greater depth.

“We had to have our best performance to win--everyone came through, but a few disappointments probably cost us the meet,” said coach Sterling Martin.

The Wildcats had seven first places in the meet, several of them surprises. Doug Horn was the only Cat to take two firsts, as he won the steeplechase in 10:48.3 and the 880-yard run in 2:00; he also placed second in the mile. In the field events, first places were taken by Jarry Taylor in the hammer with a throw of 129’3”, and by John Stanfield in the high jump, who tied at 6’6” but won by a number of missed jumps. Dave Swain jumped 21’7” to win the long jump. Other Davidson firsts were Jim Douglas’ 50.5 victory in the 440-yard run and 3:26.4 victory of the mile relay team.

The Cats will close their season this weekend when they participate in the two-day Southern Conference championship meet, to be held here Friday and Saturday for the first time in Davidson’s history.Douglas, Dick Boehner, Ed Anderson, and Mark Postove in the mile relay. An unofficial first was taken by the Cats in a new event, the weight-men’s relay, where a team of Bernard Holloway, Jeff Diller, Al Schaberg, and anchorman Jarry Taylor ran the 440 in a time of 50.4. The Wildcats, who finished last in 1975, hope to improve their performance this year. Martin said that he was "sorry we didn’t win," but that "it was a good meet, and it was a good test of what we can do; I hope it will give us some encouragement for the conference meet."

Several of the events in the meet promise to be exciting, especially the 100, 220, 440, and mile events. ECU and W&M both have 9.7 sprinters, and the Pirates also have a 49.0 quarter man and two sub-14 second high hurdlers. William and Mary has a miler who has turned out a 4:07.8 and who doubles in the 3 mile, his best time thus far being 14:19.

Frank labels this duo as hard court players, and their power serve and game will be well suited to hard courts. In order to win the tourney, Frank feels his players must all win three opening round matches. By doing this, they would advance to the winners bracket and insure the team of at least five points. The scoring is based on eight points for first place down to one point for eighth place. The division points are equal, thus Frank stressed, "Our number 6 player’s points will be just as important as the number 1’s points."

Frank is definitely looking forward to the tournament, and he foresees a lot of upsets and exciting matches. He feels the tourney will be wide open and pressure will not be that much of a problem for the team. According to him, the confidence and skill of the players will be crucial. The scholarship teams who lost to Davidson are the ones who will be scrambling to figure out how to beat the Wildcats.

Among the Wildcats hoping to place in the meet are Taylor in the hammer throw, Stanfield in the high jump, and Horn in the steeplechase. Horn and Taylor so far have some of the best performances in the conference.

The meet will begin Friday at 10:00 am and Saturday at 1:30 pm. Most preliminary events will be held Friday with finals on Saturday; the long jump, hammer, javelin, and other field events will be included. Admission is $1.00 for adults and 50 cents for students and children. Coach Martin again urges anyone who would like to help in running the meet to see him.

The meet looks to be a battle between Eastern Carolina and William and Mary, the ten-year defending champs, with Furman and Appalachian State vying for third place and both looking for some encouragement for the conference meet. Along with a slew of sub 4:10 milers, there are several 880 men coming who have run near 1:51; three intermediate hurdlers under 54.0, and two very fast mile relay teams.

Peregrine House
YOGURT SALE
HAPPY HOUR EVERY THURSDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY
THURS 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00
25¢ DRAFT
3/$1.00
FRIDAY THRU SUNDAY
THEY’RE DRINKING UPSTAIRS NOW