February 13, 1976

SRE CoRR TREES Use

President Spencer

Assistant to the President Rick Love has remarked on the failure of Davidson students to attend Dr. Spencer’s Open Ends
on Tuesdays. “Every Tuesday he comes back at about 10:05 am and I know that nobody came to his Open
End...again.” It is laughable to think of Spencer returning to his office, shaking his head and moaning that it’s lonely
at the top, but the gravity of the situation soon becomes evident. When students miss chances to talk to Spencer,
they forfeit an opportunity for input to the college, an opportunity that is too small now and can only grow
with exercise. A chance is also missed for conversation with a rare man, namely a college president who has deep
abiding concern for the height of tree limbs on campus, the heat in dorms, and any number of trivial annoyances
in a day. And the concern is real. Spencer must defend the college and the members of its staff to
students just as he must defend them against complaints from the outside. But Spencer acts on the complaints and suggestions
through the avenues open to him.

Complaints are continually leveled at Spencer for spending so much of his time and thought on daily trivialities. Instances in
the past have pointed out that he goes to great extremes to supervise the things that go on on the
campus. When the holes were dug for the lamps in Richardson Plaza, there were to be three lamps in each
of the planters. Spencer demanded that there be four. This annoyed some who felt it was not Spencer's job to
interfere with the planned Richardson Plaza lighting. But the whole thing points to an element of Spencer's character which we
do not want to call good or bad. We encourage students and faculty/staff to use it! Be in the Morrison
Room on announced Tuesdays to confront Spencer. The initial response might be that of a college president attempting to cover
for his administration, but it is when he goes back to his office that work gets done.

the davidsonian

MATTHEW ROVINGSON Editor
GUS RAININGTON Managing Editor
TOM HEES Business Manager
LEON VENABLE Photography Editor
SUE GOON Production Manager
PRIOR EVANS Editorial Page Manager
MEIER News Editor
BUCK TOMLINSON Sports Editor
WES MORGAN Features Editor
LEA VACAMICHE Advertising Manager
LAKE SLY Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

By TONY SNOW
Associate Editor

My worst fears have been realized: it’s 1955 all over again. Now, it’s not that I am always one to
break with tradition, but the parallels are absolutely frightening. Take the presidency for instance. In 1955, Dwight David Eisenhower was
setting new records for charismatic deficiency. He was a brilliant war general, a country boy, and a nice guy, but
he wasn’t what you’d call an inspirational leader. Gerry Ford is nothing to write abroad about either. He is also
a pleasant, innocuous, and boring executive. Besides their somnambulant parity, both presidents were also mediocre sportsmen. Ford is the man
who made history when he almost became the first president to meet his death on a set of stairs, not
to mention his amusing stumbles and bumbles around the slopes. It’s pretty sad when the biggest news of the day
is the latest spill by the Commander-in-Chief. Ike, on the other hand, spent his afternoons putting golf into a modest
little glass and sending advisors into the Far East. It was a pleasant enough arrangement. Everyone was happy and prosperous
and dumb. It wouldn’t be 15 years until they would find out what was going on, but at least old
Ike got elected...

The maxim that “The more all things stay the same” also finds glorious realization on campuses all over the nation.
Fraternities, corny stunts, and apathy are big again. Real world politics are very little. A couple of years ago that
might have been called “iconoclastic irreverence,” but now the thrill is...Gone. Nobody cares (except Walter Joyce and me). Once again
kids are kids and not threats to society. Adults are adults and everyone is respected even if they are turkeys.
In short, Gerry Ford is not the only boring person around. I guess that’s why we relate to him. "Happy
Days" are here again...

Butner examines students’ rights

Editor’s note: Blain Butner served as SGA President of Davidson College in 1974. During this time Butner was involved in
the early stages of drafting a Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities for the college, a document which has yet
to be finalized.

An Open Letter to Students:

Having recently become a graduate of Davidson and joined that aspect of society known as the real world, I find
myself able to view many aspects of life with a perspective I did not have while at Davidson. I find
myself crystallizing viewpoints which were only partially formed, concretizing goals which were imprecise, and—most importantly—strengthening convictions which I was beginning
to adopt as a college student. Personal ethics are, I feel, all-important as one begins to attempt to order his
life and to work towards the realization of his life’s goals. Personal rights—collectively and individually—are a principle in which I
strongly believe. In the broad sense, in our republic, citizens are granted some very important rights by the U.S. Constitution.
Among them, I value most highly the so-called "First Amendment Freedoms"—freedom of religion, speech, press, assembly, and petition. The omission
of that single sentence from the Constitution would drastically alter the lifestyle of every one of us.

I also find myself relating the real world to the world I knew at Davidson, and vice versa. Consequently, to
tie the aforerunning rhetoric to life at Davidson, I must address the concept of student rights. With the student activism
of the 1960s largely behind us, one sometimes hears a premise forwarded which would cause our recent predecessors to seethe:
the premise that (especially in private higher education) the Trustees (or the Administration, or the Regents) own the college and
therefore have the inherent right to lay down the entire law, which the students (mere consumers of the educational product)
have no right to challenge. Resistance to such dogma enveloped the sixties, resulting in such significant legal decisions as Tinker
v. Des Moines Independent Community School District (students do not "shed their constitutional rights to freedom of speech or expression
at the schoolhouse gate"), Trujillo v. Love (further freedom of expression), and countless others.

Rather than accepting the absolute supremacy of the "governing body" (in our case, the Board of Trustees), I assert that
the students have a primary position in determining college policy, by virtue of the simple fact that the college exists
for them and that without their presence and their money the college would immediately lose its raison d’être. In short,
by the very virtue of your studenthood, you have the right to call the shots. The right is there if
you will only claim it.

The various constituent groups of Davidson College have been considering the concept of a student Bill of Rights or a
Statement of Rights and Responsibilities for the past eighteen months. Recent events would tend to indicate that most are concerned
with a speedy resolution of the matter. Such a statement—genuinely accepted by the college community—is in my mind no less
than crucial. A clear, fair, and responsible statement which measures the proper student rights and concomitant responsibilities and is recognized
by all will by design prevent many future controversies.

How many of you are aware of the contents of the document which is currently being bandied about? For the
most part, the proposed statement is sound—somewhat vague here, a little rhetorical there, but generally sound. And by and large,
it is agreed to by students, faculty, and administration members. But that part of the statement which deals with expression
via student media is all but settled and all but sound, as proposed by some non-student members of the community.

Dr. William M. Beaney, Professor of Politics at Princeton University (to which we fondly like to compare ourselves), has said:
The unpopularity or irrationality of student expression provides no justification for suppression or penalty... It would be extremely unfortunate if
institutions of higher learning, having successfully fought so many battles with legislatures and trustees in the name of academic freedom
for the faculty, should fail to recognize that freedom for students to express ideas without fear of penalty is also
essential to a free academic community.

Such a free academic community is also called for by Davidson College in its Statement of Purpose, which states that
Davidson "emphasizes those studies, disciplines, and activities which liberate mankind physically, mentally, and spiritually."

[See MEDIA, page 12]
