the davidsonian
October 15, 1976

Homecoming weekend lassoes students
By BILL HOLLADAY
Staff Writer

Homecoming at Davidson traditionally includes a concert, a dance, and Patterson Court dances to supplement the big game. This year,
the Union Board decided to expand the format, and the result promises to offer something for everyone. “There will be
more going on this weekend than on any in my four years at Davidson,” commented Union Publicity Committee Co-Chairman Patti
Smisson.

Headlining the events will be the Stebbing Royal European Circus, a ‘real’ circus which traces its history back to the
roving bands of entertainers in the seventeenth century. A family operation for centuries, the present group of Stebbings has toured
the U.S. many times and has made a total of nine command performances before the Royal Family of England. The
Stebbings are proud of their record and their show: each of their twenty acts hails from a circus family which
dates back at least a hundred years and has the credentials to prove it. As owner Bill Stebbing told a
Richmond reporter, “With a small group and one ring, everything has got to be good, because there are no distractions
for the audience.”

“It’s time the American people got to see a real circus,” he added, “not the burlesque and night club-type acts
of the big circuses here.” The group will set up here Friday, with performances at 4:30 and 7:30 pm.

This weekend’s concert will feature Livingston Taylor and the Mike Greene Band. “Livingston Taylor has lived too long in the
shadow of his brother James,” Smisson noted. “It’s time he got some recognition of his own as a good folk
musician.” Although not as well-known, the Mike Greene Band should prove just as entertaining. Playing assorted keyboards, saxes, and flutes,
Mike Greene has acquired a devoted following in his native Atlanta with his combination of jazz and rock. “We were
lucky to get both acts here on the same night,” said a Concert Committee spokesman, “That’s usually a big problem.
I think Livingston Taylor will go over well, and the students who haven’t heard Mike Greene we hope will be
pleasantly surprised.”

In keeping with the Western theme of Homecoming ’76, the Union Board has really done some brainstorming. The 900 Room
will be turned into an 1850’s saloon, complete with can-can girls, song-and-dance routines, a chorus line, and more.

JAZZ ARTIST MIKE GREENE and band will share program with Livingston Taylor.

HOMECOMING

Friday, October 15, 1976
2 pm Student Performers Belk Quad
4:30 & 7:30 pm Stebbing Royal European Circus Village Green
8:30 pm Saloon Show 900 Room
9-1 am Patterson Court & Frat. Parties Patterson Court
11-1 am Cartoons 900 Room

Saturday, October 16, 1976
10 am Capsule Courses Hodson Hall
12 noon Barbecue Luncheon Richardson Plaza
2 pm Football: Madison Davidson
4:30 pm Reception with Trustees and Dr. Spencer 900 Room
Receptions: Patterson Court & Frats Patterson Court
8 pm Concert: Livingston Taylor with Mike Greene Jazz Band Love Auditorium
10:30 to 2 am Campus-wide Dance with “Showcase” Banquet Hall
11:30 pm Film: Free John Wayne Flick Outside or 900 Room
1-3 am Breakfast Buffet Union SnackBar Sunday, October 17, 1976 2 pm Rugby: Wake Forest vs. Davidson Following Game: Beer
Bash 8:30 pm World Series on TV 900 Room

British Museum Experts Mr. Edward Miller, research librarian for the National Trust, and Dr. Helen Wallis, Deputy Keeper of the
British Museum, will speak Tuesday, October 19 at 8:00 in the Morrison Room.

LIVINGSTON TAYLOR provides concert entertainment for the big weekend. "We plan to have a show made up of volunteer freshmen,
members of the women’s chorus, and anyone else who wants to participate," said Smisson. "There will be a banjo and
fiddle group, a medicine man, and with various sundry Indians raiding the place, it should be a lot of fun."
Shows are at 9:30 and 10:45 pm Wednesday and Thursday, and 8:30 pm Friday night.

A Homecoming sheriff will be elected Thursday, and pinned in the saloon between shows Thursday night. His duties, in the
words of Board member Bruce Hoster, will consist mainly of "being a figurehead and serving warrants on people for a
small fee (to be donated to the Huntersville Boys’ Home), and generally usurping any power he has."

Saturday morning at 10 am, expert Dr. Julian Pleasants ’60 will teach a capsule course on the Old West, complete
with guns and costumes. Smisson emphasized that this is not only for alumni, but will be "very entertaining and of
great interest to students, too."

In addition to all this, there will be a John Wayne Western, two Buster Keaton films, a big dance (free)
in the Banquet Hall after the concert with "Showcase," cartoons, student performers in Belk Quad, and, of course, the parties
on Patterson Court. Check the events calendar for details.

By DAVE SCHMIDT Staff Writer

Bonnie Koloc: Close-Up Epic

You’re probably asking yourself who in the world Bonnie Koloc is; if you had lived in the Midwest in the
late ’60s, you might know. In Chicago at the turn of the decade, she had somewhat of a cult following,
and she received several fine reviews in Chicago newspapers. She has a couple of previous albums on obscure labels, but
this is her first attempt on a major label.

Koloc has a pleasant voice, sometimes too pleasant, which is sort of a cross between Joan Baez and Judy Collins.
The album is composed mainly of songs which could be classified as "easy listening," a style in which she seems
to be most comfortable singing. However, she does have several up-tempo cuts, including a 1951 Hank Snow song entitled "The
Rhumba Boogie," which may have potential AM airplay as it sounds amazingly like "The Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy of Company
B." If you’re looking for an easy listening album, definitely buy this.

Ry Cooder: Chicken Skin Music Reprise

For those of you who believe yourselves to have avant-garde tastes in music, this is the album for you. Cooder
has always had a following, but no one ever seems to purchase his albums. Hopefully, this album will change that.
The general theme of the album seems to be influenced by a Southwest or Mexican flavor, as almost every song
has some slide guitar or...
