October 22, 1976

Sophomore Cager Ends Career Here

Third “super-six” recruit to leave

By BRUCE HOLLADAY
Sports Editor

Sophomore Jim Rice will leave Davidson at the end of the Fall term in November.

He will transfer to Northern Kentucky University in January where it is assumed he will play basketball.

Rice is the third of last year’s “Super Six” basketball recruits to have left school in less than a year.
Six-foot-four-inch Art Leahy transferred last Spring to a California school. Seven-foot-two-inch Tom Dore left this summer to further his career
at the University of Missouri.

Rice, however, has indicated that the other two transfers had no influence on his own decision to leave.

Rice, a six-foot-five-inch forward, started in all but a few of last year’s games, averaging slightly over four points per
game.

The 195-pounder’s main contributions came as a stabilizing force on some of the team’s more erratic players. He was also
noted for his defensive abilities.

Personal family reasons and some minor academic difficulties were two of the reasons that Rice cited as leading to his
decision to transfer.

Northern Kentucky is very close to his hometown, and he will be able to commute to school every day. Several
of his old high school teammates play for Northern Kentucky.

Rice emphasized that new Coach Dave Pritchett had nothing to do with his decision to leave. He said that he
respected Pritchett very much and thought he was doing a good job.

He added that he was “sorry to leave Davidson,” but that it would be better for everyone in the long
run.

Wake Forest mangles Ruggers 6-0

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rugby Club took on Wake Forest in an extremely well-played match this past Sunday. The game was very
close throughout, and though Davidson lost 6-0, most observers readily agreed that the teams were well-matched and that the score
could have easily gone either way.

After five minutes had elapsed in the first half, Wake quickly jumped in front as a result of a fluke
play.

A long kick by Wake Forest bounced on the Davidson five-yard line and Wilbourne Swaim, hoping to get a 25-yard
drop-out, allowed it to roll toward the Davidson end zone where he could down it. Unfortunately, the ball took a
strange bounce, and an on-rushing Wake Forest back caught it in full stride and dove in for the try.

Davidson, maddened by the sudden turn of events, made its most serious penetration of the game when Pete Johnson broke
three tackles and made a beeline for Wake’s goal.

Finally brought down at the three-yard line, he made a valiant attempt to crawl over the line with the ball,
but it skittered out of his hands; a Wake defender fell on it in the end zone and was awarded
a 25-yard drop-kick, thus getting the ball out of trouble.

The second half was marked by tenacious defense as both sides made a couple of stands inside their 25. As
a whole, play in the second half was marred by deteriorating field conditions due to the inclement weather, and sloppy
passing because of the wet ball.

Overall, it was a physically grueling, hard-fought match, but was so well-played by both sides that referee Rad Dietler was
inspired to remark several times that this was “good rugby.”

In the second match, Davidson’s “B” side put up a tough fight, but a poor effort in the scrum allowed
Wake to gain good field position and win 10-0.

THE ALL-

Duke University Law School

Professor Pamela G. Luther will be on campus Friday, November 5, 1976, from 9 am until 4 pm to interview
prospective students for the Duke University Law School. Interested students should contact Ms. Suzie Summers in the Office for Experimental
Studies and Life/Work Planning.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

Important, Useful, Comfortable, and Fashionable

CORDUROY VESTED SUIT

Colors of Tan and Medium Blue

Only $89.95

Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mock & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville
