Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Group works to “Save the National”

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

A joint Union Board-Student Government Association (SGA) Committee, headed by Sophomore Charlton Strange, is “asking for the return of the Davidson National and a dedication to the arts at Davidson College.” The committee consists of Strange, Senior Ed Sibley, Juniors Sally Stow, Steve Peeples, Mary Perkins, and Ruth Brown, and Freshman Lynn Langley.

The SGA Senate Fun and Frolic Committee took on the task of determining the cause of the abandonment of the National and found it was a little deeper than just money, according to Strange. The members asked for a special board to work with the show. The National was dropped for three reasons, according to Strange. Associate Professor of Art Herb Jackson doesn’t want to direct the show anymore so he can spend more time on his career and Vice President for Development Craven E. Williams says it is a matter of funding right now. “From College President Samuel R. Spencer’s view, it’s a matter of priorities, I guess, a choice between academics and extracurricular activities. If the school had the money they’d be more than willing to do it,” said Strange.

The National is definitely cancelled for next year, said Strange, so the committee is working for a show in two years. “It will give us plenty of time,” he said. The committee plans to send flyers to art societies all over the United States, all artists who submitted work to this year’s National, and all trustees to solicit support and money for the show. Strange also plans to put a letter in the alumni newsletter and to try to get national press coverage for the project. “Craven Williams doesn’t want us to give a whole lot of money ourselves so we're doing this,” said Strange. “The thing that the administration doesn’t want to see is us taking money from money they’d get anyway. That’s their main objection to us trying to raise a lot of money.”

Davidson College “wants the art program as much as the students do; it’s just a matter of time and space,” according to Strange. “So they’re giving us help,” he said. The committee plans to raise the money for the renovation of Chambers Banquet hall as an art gallery and for the addition of a new member of the art department to direct the National. “The most feasible plan to get someone to direct the National would be to get a professor here to teach lithography. This addition would cost some money,” said Strange.

A petition stating: “We, the members of the Davidson College Community express our support for the continuation of the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition, and for the improvement of the art program at Davidson College,” is being circulated.

---

Annual fund closes on goal as alumni fulfill commitment

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Davidson alumni have been asked to support the college financially more this year than ever before. The goal for contributions to the Annual Fund has “shot through the ceiling” to $350,000, according to Annual Fund Director Thomas Bernhardt. The $350,000 for this year is an increase over the $300,000 target set for last year’s drive, which actually brought in $315,000. According to Bernhardt, the fund has raised $223,000 so far this year. “This is 15 or 16 percent above the total for the same day last year,” he said. “However, this lead is dropping. For a long time, we ran 20 percent ahead of last year. This month, for the first time, we dropped below the 20 percent mark,” said Bernhardt.

One fund-raising technique instituted this year by Bernhardt was “student telethons.” This is a technique whereby students presently enrolled in Davidson contact alumni by phone to solicit contributions to the Annual Fund. “This has been very successful. It means more to an alumnus to get a call from a present student than to get a call from an alumnus who probably hasn’t had any more recent contact with Davidson than he himself has had. We’ve gotten at least a dozen or so contributions—one of $1000—which were the result of alumni being contacted by a student. The people wrote notes along with their contributions telling us so,” said Bernhardt.

Bernhardt explained what the Annual Fund is and why it is important.he thought it is important to the college. “The Annual Fund is not really romantic or glamorous. It certainly does not have the ring of ‘Support Davidson basketball. Help put us back in the Top 20.’ “Paying utility bills isn’t very romantic, but it sure is important,” said Bernhardt. “The college has to pay those bills every month—from Duke Power for the lights, the water bill from the city, to pay everybody from the guys who lean on rakes outside to the president, faculty, and staff. “Everybody is subsidized by alumni gifts. The Annual Fund is a budget item. They (the college) always say, ‘that money we know is coming in.’ And they go ahead and spend it,” he said. “That money is spent. If the alumni don’t come through, if they don’t give enough money, if they don’t reach that goal, the money has got to come from somewhere else. “You don’t know where it’s going to come from. But it has got to come from somewhere, because that money is already spent,” said Bernhardt. Bernhardt said that he felt “very strongly that students had an obligation to Davidson [see BERNHARDT, page 3]

A YOUNG LADY enjoys the sun during a “partially successful” Spring Frolics. See story, p. 2.

Spencer picks Clark to fill assistant’s spot
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

Davidson College Senior Peter F. Clark has been selected to fill the post of Assistant to the President for 1976-77. “I cannot remember a finer group of applicants for the job,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. “All the people would have served well. I tried to choose the one who seemed to me best suited.”

Outlining the responsibilities of the post, Spencer continued, “There is a lot of variety—it ranges from the trivial to the important. “The job takes someone with the ability to organize and keep a number of things going at once,” he said. “It required someone who can communicate clearly, for many of the channels of communication both inside and outside of the college are left up to the assistant.”

Outgoing Assistant Rick Love (Davidson ’75) agreed with Spencer. “Some of the duties are strictly clerical—stamping 2000 letters, sending Christmas cards—and those must be abided. Other tasks are more vital,” he said. “I handled many aspects of Trustee liaison, such as conducting correspondence with them and arranging their meetings at Davidson. Also, I organize almost every detail of Convocation,” said Love. “I served to encourage and interpret both faculty and student opinion; I tried to get students to the Open Ends with Dr. Spencer and urged that anyone talk with him privately if they had something to say. “I could have acted as spokesman, but that’s not my nature. I’m a background person, not the assertive type,” said Love.

Clark believes Love’s approach to the job is a wise one. “I’m not there to be an advocate, spouting off others’ opinions. I will seek people who have something on their minds that they want to convey to Dr. Spencer,” he said.

Love indicated that “the hardest thing to accomplish is to convince the administrators that you’re one of them from 8 to 5, then after hours remind the students that your closest ties are still with them.” Clark recognized the “identity complex” of being a just-graduated administrator. “But as Rick told me, ‘you wear a tie,’ and that automatically sets you apart from the students,” said Clark. “I recognize I’ll only be a fledgling administrator, not the real thing, but I can’t hope to be effective if I act just as another student, so I will maintain some distance.”

Love had problems adjusting to his new role at first. “I sat and waited for Dr. Spencer to give me something to do,” he said. “Then I realized that one is given as much responsibility as one demonstrates he is able to handle. I started offering opinions whether or not they were directly solicited. Only recently have I gotten a feel for administrative decisions,” said Love.

“I don’t believe I’ll have the problem of adjusting that Rick did,” said Clark. There was no Fall Convocation this year, which caused an initial lull in the assistant’s duties. “I’ve been told that I’ll be [see CLARK, page 3]