the davidsonian
December 10, 1976

Residents swarm for flu shot
By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Infirmary administered over 600 swine flu shots to students and employees of the college last week, almost
twice the number expected previously. Mrs. Dorothy Sherrill, supervisor of the Infirmary, commented, “We had a tremendous response to the
swine flu vaccination by the students, faculty, and staff. Our first estimate was to give 320, and we ended up
giving 612.”

Of the persons receiving the shots, 480 were between the ages of 18 and 24, including an estimated 470 students.
Mrs. Sherrill said she had “no way of knowing how many students have had the vaccine elsewhere,” but she would
hazard a guess of about 130. If that estimate is close to actuality, then over 700 students have still not
had their immunizations.

For the ones who have been vaccinated, the concern over reaction to the shots should be over. There were only
a few minor cases of any reaction at all, mainly slight fever and chills, with no bad cases reported. Only
one student was admitted to the Infirmary following his flu shot, and it was a mild illness, possibly not associated
with the shot at all. The cause of some of the sickness may have been an intestinal virus, according to
Mrs. Sherrill.

The Infirmary supplied the inoculations between November 30 and December 2, with the whole nursing staff working overtime to run
the program. All students, faculty, and staff members who have taken the vaccine should take the second shot the week
following Christmas.

STUDENTS FLOODED the Infirmary last week to be relieved of their swine flu anxieties.

Emergency-Rescue team begins
By CATHY LANDIS
Executive Editor

Until now Davidson had suffered from a lack of emergency care. To answer this need, students Bob Polglase and Steve
Porter have initiated the Davidson Emergency Rescue Service (DERS). The emergency team, under the direction of Dean of Students Will
Terry, provides 24-hour, seven-day-a-week emergency care for students, faculty, administration, staff, and guests of Davidson College.

Porter outlines the procedure for attaining emergency help. “When a medical emergency arises, the student should phone the Infirmary. He
should tell the nurse where the emergency is, and also the nature of the problem. There will be two on
the team on all 24 hours a day, and they will be immediately paged.” Porter continues, “One member will go
straight to the scene, and the other will bring any needed equipment by car. The patient will be treated on
the scene and, if necessary, referred to the Infirmary or a local hospital.”

Polglase describes DERS as a “triage function.” “We really just sort out problems and try to channel them to the
appropriate health facility.” He lists the Infirmary, Charlotte hospitals, and outside doctors as available options. “The idea behind founding DERS,”
Polglase comments, “is to give some consistency to emergency care at Davidson.” Noting that many emergencies were either neglected or
improperly handled because of a lack of organization among available health care centers, Porter and Polglase began last March to
set up a comprehensive approach for emergency care.

“Our members are all well-trained in emergency care and rescue,” Polglase says. The team, headed by Polglase and Porter and
assisted by Laurie Bingaman and Tim Goodell, will work in shifts so that two of the four will be constantly
on call. Using the Infirmary as the dispatcher, they are equipped with beepers to be available in all places. In
addition, the crew chiefs’ cars are equipped with everything included in an ambulance except a stretcher. Polglase says, “We can
supply...the same treatment as an ambulance save for transportation. According to law we cannot transport patients, but we have the
North Mecklenburg ambulance service available if necessary.” When asked whether they felt four people could handle all emergency care, Porter
commented, “It’s going to be tight at times, no doubt about it. We’ll have to do a lot of working
around labs and reviews. But,” he continued, “most emergencies don’t occur at class times; rather during intramural sports and on
weekends.” Eventually, the team would like to expand, but the opportunity for experience at Davidson is limited. They hope to
encourage anyone who might be interested to go to Charlotte to get the proper experience. Both the Infirmary and Dr.
Elithope have given the DERS 100 percent support and cooperation. Terry backs the service as well. Terry comments, “We are
grateful to those students whose interest in improving the health care at Davidson has made the emergency service a reality.
These men and women are well-trained and properly certified. They are to be commended for knowing their limitations as well
as the things they are equipped to do.”

Polglase sums up the service. “The Infirmary doesn’t make house calls; we do. Anyone who is hurt, or too sick
to go to the Infirmary shouldn’t hesitate to ask for our help. Problems such as colds, sore throats, or other
routine illnesses are best treated in the Infirmary during sick call. But for anything out of the ordinary, DERS is
your best source of help.”

PIRG leader states rights
By GAIL MAYNARD
Staff Writer

NC-PIRG State Director Peter Brown was at Davidson this week discussing landlord-tenant relations and student rights. In an open session
on landlord-tenant relationships, Brown stated that students have their major problems concerning when to move and when to regain their
deposits. “A student’s privilege to move depends upon the type of lease he holds. And, of course, a deposit belongs
to the tenant. Yet, when a tenant gets his deposit back also depends on the type of deposit.”

Several present at the meeting had specific questions about their landlord, Wilson Sadler. Sadler rents houses to both college students
and townspeople. The complaints they voiced concerned Sadler's neglect to repair damages in their houses. Brown offered some solutions at
the meeting and referred the students to his North Carolina Tenants’ Handbook for other answers. He was pleased with the
questions because they led to important explanations of tenants’ rights and relations to their landlord.

Brown stated that most landlord-tenant relations revolved around maintenance of housing. “If the housing is allowed to decay, it affects
the economic situation in the area. However, no laws exist which say that a landlord must maintain his property,” said
Brown. Brown also said that on a month-to-month lease, a landlord can evict his tenant for any reason, with only
a week’s notice. “These outdated laws stem from the feudal period, when a landlord held complete control over his tenants.”

“The problems lie in knowing fully what tenants’ rights are,” expressed Brown. He also said that tenants are unaware of
their legal standing with a landlord. Thus, the North Carolina Tenants’ Handbook was compiled as a type of self-help tool
for tenants throughout the state. It answers questions about tenants’ powers to get repairs done on housing. Brown edited and
compiled the handbook, which includes the research and writings of PIRG students across the state. It was distributed to students
of participating colleges in PIRG and also to every tenant in North Carolina.

Later, at an SGA meeting, Brown discussed briefly a student’s rights at a private college. He said that these rights
centered mainly around the contract formed between the student and college during application. Brown also declared that today, students consider
themselves “consumers” of education and are demanding the rights that go along with their consumption.
