September 17, 1976

Duke outruns Cats
In opening contest

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

Coach Sterling Martin’s cross countrymen dropped their first meet of the year Saturday as they fell to the ACC champions Duke Blue Devils 44-19 on the Davidson course.

In the race, which was by mutual agreement five miles instead of the usual six, the Cats only managed to take three of the top ten places: Doug Horne in second with 27:05, Ed Anderson in ninth with 28:51, and Zack Murrell in tenth with 28:55.

Martin was pleased with his team’s times, however, especially considering the fact that practice had only been underway for a week.

Facing what can only be called a rebuilding year, Martin is pessimistic about the upcoming year.

“We suffered heavily with graduation losses and the surprise absences of Coty Pinckney and Dick Boehner, and we have only two returning lettermen: Horne and Steve Justus,” he said.

Other members of the team include Jay Silver, Biff Umhau, and freshmen George Strobel, Jeff Morrow, and Pat Jenevein.

In the past, the cross country squad has been one of the more victorious teams at Davidson, posting 7-5, 9-3, and 10-8 records the past three years. This year is different.

As Martin says, “This is definitely our hardest cross country schedule ever at Davidson; with a young untried team like this we can only hope for a few victories and a lot of good experience.”

The Cats’ next action will be the annual Stone Mountain Road Race in Atlanta on Saturday, and future meets include contests with William and Mary (Southern Conference champions for the past ten years), Furman, the University of Richmond, and Appalachian State.

The next home meet will be a five-way meet on October 2, where Martin expects his team to finish second behind Pembroke.

Along with cross country this year there will be organized fall track practice. Martin urges anyone who plans to run on the team this spring to see him soon.

Also, any women interested in either running cross country with the men this fall or organizing a women’s team for the winter and spring seasons should see Martin in his Johnston gym office.

The Davidson College IMAC Flickerball season commences Wednesday with all its thrills, chills, and assorted spills.

-Irv Wilson

Quality

Pabst. Since 1844.
The quality has always come through.

PABST BREWING COMPANY
Milwaukee, Wis., Peoria Heights, Ill., Newark, N.J., Los Angeles, Calif., Pabst, Georgia.