December 3, 1976.

ONLY THEIR HAIRDRESSERS know for sure.

By BARBIE DOLL
Staff Writer

Don’t spoil your composite campus look by wearing an old sweater over that rugby shirt or oxford-cloth shirt. If the
weather is chilly, do tie it loosely around your neck for the perfect casual, go-to-class look. Please—left over right.

An absolute must for today’s trendy campus wear, t-shirts are the complement to any outfit that calls for short sleeves
on short notice. Yet, when making those ever-important decisions, don’t wear those from schools that aren’t as highly respected as
Davidson. How gauche! Do add to your collection of Duke, Princeton, (Ivy League is particularly “in” this year), and, sure
to impress your friends and relations, Williams’ newest “Follow Me” t-shirt.

Of course, no wardrobe is complete without the ever-popular denim look. Face it, jeans are definitely here to stay, and
it makes no difference whether you choose Lee, Wrangler, or Levi’s as long as they are straight legs. Do let
your L. L. Bean Catalogue hang out of the back pocket—for just the right touch.

An acceptable alternative, painter’s pants are a welcome change to the day-in, day-out grind of colored slacks. Don’t forget that
the loops are simply decoration and leave your hammers and screwdrivers at home. Girls—do tie ribbons to these appendages for
a dressier effect that will surely catch the eye of that special someone.

Also, ladies—don’t neglect the wide variety of tartans available this year for fashion’s newest kilts and A-line skirts. Do complement
your individual style by adding coordinated knee socks and the ever-popular dock-sides. Don’t go naked.

Tea Party

New course for you eager professionals:
Economics 438, Basic Bookkeeping
taught by C. Louise Nelson

Bandwagon

Friday, November 40, 2169

Sunday, November 42, 2169

Monday, November 43, 2169

Ken Wood’s Funeral

Tuesday, November 44, 2169

Symposium on Beach Music
Pop Film: “Inside Linda Lovelace”
10 & 12 pm Moses and the Seven Plagues

Saturday, November 41, 2169

White Rat Barbecue
Javelin Catching with Williams College
Concert: John Denver
Magic Show: C. Shaw Smith Raises Another Budget
Dawn Phallic Procession by Dirk French To the Post Office
10 am Dr. MacCormac’s Ascension DCPC
2 pm Tennis: Spencer & White vs. Kaylor & Stell
DCF Keg Party
Mary Lou Dietler Cuts her Hair
Dr. Daggy & Class Devour a Tree
Open End with Mr. Nixon
Wine & Cheese with Boone’s Farm and Velveeta
Midnite Beaver Hunt
2 am-til Rugby Dance with Williams

Sat., Dec. 4
Morrison Room
Basement of Union
Phi Delta Theta House
Conversation Pit

GAY DANCE
Sponsored by the Davidson Rugby Team
Lower Soccer Field

Wednesday, November 45, 2169

8 pm SAE House Midnite
Love Auditorium
900 Room
10 am Psych. Dept.
Jackson Court
Love Auditorium
900 Room
Dean’s Office
Front Lawn
Phi Society
Watts Dorm
SPE House

8 pm Fine Film: “The Devil in Dr. Ms. Nelson”
SPE Rush Party

Thursday, November 46, 2169

Coke and Tab Bust

Love Auditorium
The Rub
Banquet Hall
Banquet Hall

Had a piece lately? If not, visit the Union Bar. They serve pizza all the time.
