the davidsonian
September 24, 1976

SIMONE SpA

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. is presently considering proposals aimed at ending sex discrimination on the Davidson campus. A
ten-member Title IX Self-study Committee, chaired by Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Robert J. Stephenson, presented these proposals in
a report after conducting an evaluation of life at Davidson. Title IX is a federal regulation which demands: that every
college evaluate sex discrimination in admissions, treatment of students, and employment; modification of policies and practices found discriminatory; and remedial
action to eliminate effects of past sex discrimination.

Spencer has appointed Stephenson and Assistant Dean of Students Mary Lou Dietler as Davidson’s Title IX Coordinators. “It is very
important that students read and understand the grievance procedure for reporting sex-discrimination violations,” said Dietler. “Bob and I are sources
of information and counsel. In the grievance procedure, we are advisors, not judges,” she continued.

Title IX calls for sex-blind admissions policies but exempts private undergraduate colleges like Davidson from those requirements. TITLE IX may
bring security phones to male halls. The secret is in knowing when to use it. Title IX is that portion
of the Educational Amendments of 1972 which forbids discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs or activities receiving
Federal funds. The grievance procedures mandated under this legislation were formulated in order to ensure the prompt and equitable resolution
of student and employee complaints of sex discrimination.

The college recognizes the importance of providing an opportunity for students and employees to voice complaints of sex discrimination and
to receive a fair hearing. These complaints will receive prompt and considerate action. The dignity of an individual will be
held in the highest regard at all times and the right of appeal will not jeopardize a position, undermine a
reputation, or result in discrimination. Any grievance to be considered under these procedures must be brought up not later than
ten class (for students) or working (for employees) days after the time that the student or employee has knowledge of
the act which is the basis for the grievance.

Two Title IX Coordinators, Ms. Dietler for students and Mr. Stephenson for all others, have been appointed in accordance with
Title IX legislation, and will serve as sources of information and counsel in situations involving alleged violations of Title IX
provisions. In addition, other parties connected with these grievance procedures are urged to consult the Title IX Coordinators for information
and advice. For members of the Faculty, instances of alleged sex discrimination will be dealt with by the Committee on
Professional Affairs in accordance with the Faculty By-Laws and the Constitution of Davidson College.

Step 1. An employee with a grievance involving alleged sex discrimination shall first talk with his or her supervisor. The
supervisor shall reach a decision and communicate it verbally to the employee within five working days after being told of
the situation causing the grievance.

Step 2. If the employee feels that the supervisor has not devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the individual
has five working days to present the grievance either in writing or verbally to the appropriate department head. The following
information should be supplied to the department head:
1. The specific grievance.
2. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
3. The remedy or corrective action sought.

The employee may be accompanied by another college employee of his or her choice during any of the above steps.
All time limits mentioned above may be extended by mutual agreement of all parties in the dispute.

Step 3. If the department head is unable to devise a satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five working days,
the grievance shall be referred to an ad hoc committee appointed by the president. This committee has ten working days
in which to schedule and hold a meeting. The committee will make recommendations to the appropriate college officer for final
action.

Instances of alleged sex discrimination involving accusations made under the Code of Responsibility (including the Honor System) or in the
hearing process itself will be dealt with through the mechanisms outlined in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure as in all
other judicial cases. (See the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.)

Instances of alleged sex discrimination in grading will be dealt with through the normal grade appeal procedure.

Step 1. A student with a grievance involving alleged sex discrimination in grading shall first talk with the professor from
whom the grade was received (not later than ten class days after receiving the grade).

“We will continue to accept men and women on a quota basis,” said Stephenson. The Committee carefully examined the housing
facilities at Davidson.Davidson. “We spent more time on housing than on any other single topic. After considering all pertinent information,
we concluded that the pros and cons of each living facility balanced out, and the college is guilty of sex
discrimination in only two minor instances,” explained Dietler. “First, emergency lines to the police are provided in girls’ halls, but
not guys’. And second, washing machines are more conveniently located for the women. We recommended that these problems be alleviated.”

“Personally, I’d like to see emergency phones installed in the men’s dorms. A situation might well arise when a guy
would need a direct line to the police,” she said.

Under the broad topic of education programs and activities, the college does not comply with Title IX Regulations in three
areas. “In selection of cheerleaders, quotas are set for males and females as partners. We realized that cheerleaders’ routines are
set up on a male-female partner basis and any change would be difficult. This year we'd like to sound out
the student body on its opinions of the cheerleader selection process,” remarked Stephenson.

The Committee noted that the Homecoming Court was open only to women, a blatant example of discrimination. “I know that
there have been murmurings in the past that the guys were going to put up a candidate for homecoming queen.
The group agreed that they should be allowed to do so,” said Dietler.

Also, the Philanthropic Literary Society is all male. The Society will be contacted concerning their membership practices and Title IX
requirements. Access to course offerings was deemed equal for males and females except in gymnastics and the choral groups. The
committee advised that gymnastics be opened to men, but the choral groups proved to be a thorny problem.

“We feel that we are within the spirit of the law with our choral groups—the Male Chorus, the women’s Chorus,
and the Madrigal Singers—because every student has an opportunity to sing in at least one group,” said Stephenson. “The Committee
called for comparable professional direction for each group and indicated that legal advice should be sought if the College intends
continued use of the admittedly sexist labels,” he said.

Title IX requires that all colleges with complete health facilities do not discriminate in the services they offer. The Committee
acknowledged that the College’s health services do not offer full health facilities. The College’s personnel, faculty, and counselors must provide
non-discriminatory counseling. “We don’t want advice like, ‘Since you’re a woman, don’t spend too much money on your education. Just
get a degree because you will be married before long,’” said Dietler.

The Committee also addressed discrimination in dispensing financial aid and regular channels of discrimination in student practices. The Self-Study Committee
report, dated July 21 and submitted to the Assistant to the President, Spencer Clark, has been prepared for Spencer’s evaluation.
“I took the Committee’s recommendations, summarized them individually, noted the channels I thought existed, and gave my information to Spencer,”
said Clark.

Title IX will bring an end to sex-discrimination in colleges across the nation. The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
(Title IX) recognizes the complexity of this area and has given colleges until July 21, 1978, to comply.

Students and personnel take note: Davidson Title IX grievances must be filed no later than ten class days after the
time the student has knowledge of the act which is the basis for the grievance. The professor shall reach a
decision and communicate it verbally to the student within five class days after being told of the grievance.

Step 1. The specific grievance.

Step 2. If the student feels that the professor has not devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the individual
has five class days to present the grievance either in writing or verbally to the appropriate department chairman. The following
information should be supplied to the department chairman:

1. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
2. The remedy or corrective action sought.

Step 3. If the department chairman is unable to devise a satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five days, the
grievance shall be referred to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The Vice President for Academic Affairs has ten class
days in which to devise a final solution to settle the grievance.

Instances of alleged sex discrimination involving neither grading nor the Code of Responsibility will be dealt with according to the
following procedure:

Step 1. A student with a grievance involving alleged sex discrimination shall first talk with the individual responsible for the
situation causing the grievance. This individual shall reach a decision and communicate it verbally to the student within five days
after being told of the grievance.

Step 2. If the student feels that the individual has not devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the student
has five class days to present the grievance either in writing or verbally to the appropriate department or organizational head.
The following information should be supplied to the department or organizational head:

1. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
2. The remedy or corrective action sought.
