Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

su |? the davidsonian April 9, 1976

Students gyrate to disco delirium

By ANN WICKER Staff Writer

Somewhere, lost in the depths of your memory, lurks a night when you were in the eighth grade and you went to your first dance. Chances are that dance was a record hop, well chaperoned by the old maid Home Ec. teacher. Live bands were too expensive for junior high budgets.

Now that you are a sophisticated collegiate person you go to dances quite often. There are no chaperones anymore, but that’s not the only difference between a disco dance and the record hops of your junior high days. Disco dances were born in discotheques and nurtured there for economic reasons. Disco dances are also cheap to run compared to live band dances.

However, there is much more behind the successful disco than just playing a few records. Steph Flowers, the main disco man around campus, believes that disco dances are dependent on a certain type of music and atmosphere. Flowers learned about running disco dances last year while he was in France. According to Flowers, running disco dances could be and perhaps should be a full-time job. “You have to know what people are into, and what people are playing. You have to be familiar with the beginnings and endings of the songs, the meter and rhythm -- the details are endless.”

Equipment is also very important to a disco. The set-up in the 900 Room has potential. The speakers are great, but, according to Flowers, a new turntable is needed. Flowers says he would never use tapes for a disco because it makes it hard to follow the feel of the crowd. His philosophy is to build up the music and the crowd. Sometimes this calls for starting off slowly -- “I have to take time to get into the music myself.” Half of the records he uses are his own; a few are provided. “Sometimes I panic thinking of playing 100 to 150 cuts a night, but it’s really a lot of fun for me.”

Apparently disco dances are fun for a lot of people around Davidson. Duff Bruce, seasoned veteran of Davidson social gatherings, says that discos are much better than the dances Davidson used to have. Discos are low-key relaxed gatherings -- “Not so much of an event.” Just last Friday night it was apparent that the sparse crowd watching talented pianist Michael Lewis grew as the time for the disco dance drew nearer. The eating clubs around Patterson Court like to give disco dances because they are cheap and the extra money can be spent on beer or booze.

The main complaint about disco dances is that most of the music seems to sound the same. Flowers says that this is because most people aren’t familiar enough with the music to notice the differences in rhythm and meter. One student pointed out that discos at Davidson tend to stagnate, not only because of the music, but because you see the same people at every dance. In a city, where discos go on at clubs all the time, you at least see new people. Flowers believes that the future of discos at Davidson lies in using themes -- “a combination disco and casino night would be great.” Lee Grogan,

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Social chairman at PAX House says that after you have all the details worked out -- “The people who come to the disco make the disco.” The average Davidson dancer is familiar with the songs and keeps time to the music fairly well. A step up is the dancer who knows the Bump. The Bump is the easiest of the more stylized dances, requiring only hip movement with the beat of the music. There are a few above-average dancers even at Davidson. These are the people that you see at every dance. They have studied the diagrams in Time magazine and learned the steps to the Hustle. When they bump, they don’t just bump, they add all sorts of gyrations. An unidentified observer was heard to observe, “They look like a couple of Verna’s pigeons during Bawcoo courtship.” I'll give it a 60. The beat goes on...

Bandwagon

Friday, April 9, 1976
7 pm An Evening with the Plant People Morrison Room
7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Safety Course Perkins Auditorium
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
3 pm Women’s JV Tennis: Pfeiffer Davidson
8 pm BLACK WEEK: Concert—Love Auditorium “Tavares”
10:30 pm BLACK WEEK: Dance—Banquet Hall “Innusphere”

Saturday, April 10, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
8 am Law School Admission Test Banquet Hall
10 am Davidson Track Relays Davidson
1 pm Baseball: William & Mary Lexington, Va.
2 pm Tennis: VMI Lexington, Va.
2 pm Rugby: Camp Lejeune Davidson
3 pm Baseball: Furman, Greenville, S.C.
3 pm Women’s JV Tennis: Wingate “B” Davidson
4 pm Films: “William Carlos Williams” Honors Center and “Days of Dylan Thomas”
7 pm NC PIRG Large Conference Room
7 pm Poetry: Basil Bunting 900 Room
TBA Entertainment: Larry Keen 900 Room

Sunday, April 11, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
1 pm Track: Appalachian, Western Carolina Boone, N.C.
1 pm Tennis: Washington & Lee Lexington, Va.
6 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
8 pm SPRING FROLICS: Concert—Love Auditorium “Pure Prairie League”
TBA Entertainment: Larry Keen 900 Room

Monday, April 12, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
1 pm Golf: Appalachian Boone, N.C.
3 pm Women’s Tennis: South Carolina Davidson
8:15 pm Senior Organ Recital: DCPC Carl Clinton Schwartz

Tuesday, April 13, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
4:30 pm Small Group Leaders Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room
7 pm Worship Service

Wednesday, April 14, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room
2 pm Tennis: Appalachian State Davidson
3 pm Baseball: Furman, Greenville, S.C.

Thursday, April 15, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
8 & 10:30 pm BLACK WEEK: Film—Love Auditorium “Claudine”

Piedmont Insurance Agency, Inc.
173 N. Main Street
Davidson
First Union National
Authorized Dealer
WRGIE
Resville