the davidsonian January 23, 1976

Tenure benefits academic freedom

By EARL R. MACCORMAC
Professor of Philosophy

Tenure exists primarily to protect academic freedom and in this capacity serves the cause of a democratic society. An informed population allows citizens to make decisions about public issues, and one of the greatest threats to our society arises when we cannot have free access to the truth. Various pressure groups seek to gain our allegiance hoping that we will vote for their candidates, buy their products, or support their legislation. Without dissenting opinions, propagandists are free to ply their falsehoods unopposed.

Colleges and universities provide almost the only free forum of debate where the propagandists can be confronted by professors with opposing opinions. And tenure prevents those fearful of the truth from using economic reprisals to silence independent researchers. Living in a world described by Yeats in which “the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity,” the still small voices of academics must be safeguarded from the ruthless power seekers who wish to eliminate all dissent.

Many academics forget the infamous McCarthy era when the Senator from Wisconsin saw in almost every university professor a left-wing socialist seemingly undermining the youth of the nation and worthy only of purging from his position as a professor. Some were hounded out of their posts by witch-hunting administrators, trustees, and regents but many protected by tenure were able to voice their opposition to this persecution. Even now professors come under attack when they publish their controversial findings, and without tenure they could be dismissed. Imagine how difficult it was for the professor who first published his findings that cigarette smoking and lung cancer are linked. The power and influence of the tobacco industry are enormous, and when the findings were made public, his work was ridiculed, his correlations described as accidental and his university probably received intimidations and threats.

Each day as an undergraduate student on the way to a publication office I passed the office of E. Cuyler Hammond and the name meant nothing to me. Several years later when his studies on smoking and lung cancer were published, he received instant notoriety. Only when I became a professor did I realize just how much he must have come under attack and how much pressure his university must have felt to fire him, but he spoke as an expert in his field, protected by tenure.

Some object to tenure on the grounds that it does not guarantee the academic freedom of younger professors who have served less than a full seven years; and that, in fact, its existence prevents these younger colleagues from speaking their mind fearful that they will be dismissed. The younger faculty worry that if they proclaim controversial research findings they will be opposed by senior faculty who may reject their bids for tenure primarily upon ideological grounds. A younger faculty member may find his ideological position unacceptable to his senior colleagues and be denied tenure because of his heresy. I know of philosophy departments that will not tolerate tenured phenomenologists and that will not allow analytic philosophers who utilize linguistic analysis to remain in their camp very long.

Opponents claim that tenure should be abolished since it fails to protect the academic freedom of the nontenured and may in fact often serve to intimidate them and prevent them from having the opportunity to speak freely. This criticism uncovers the paradox that the fear of not receiving tenure that younger men have becomes the very device that prevents them from speaking their scholarly opinion. Ironically, tenure invoked to protect academic freedom becomes, through abuse, the means by which dissent becomes silenced, a very real denial of academic freedom. And I have heard many young colleagues say that they will not even hint of anything controversial until they receive tenure. Waiting for the magical day of tenure, when it came, they found that the process of saying what was desired by senior colleagues for seven years had robbed them of their critical faculties through seven years of nonuse.

But to throw out tenure because it does not protect the academic freedom of the nontenured would be to throw out the baby with the bathwater. If some without tenure are afraid to speak out in their fields, why should we abolish tenure and expose even greater numbers to threats and intimidations when they give voice to scholarly dissent? Better to leave the tenured protected with their academic freedom intact and work to assure the academic freedom of the nontenured.

Congratulations are extended to the final winners in Tuesday's Senate elections. That is, last Tuesday’s elections. Special congratulations belong to Tony Snow who overcame tremendous odds and in less than a week went from being a sort of political clown.to the senior class presidency. It was Snow who put pictures of himself committing suicide, eating gruel from a bowl, and praying for sympathy, near the voting areas in an attempt to receive write-in votes in the first elections held January 13. The next elections on January 20 included Snow on the ballot, perhaps to avoid another pictorial display of self-infatuation. The whole situation was degrading to the SGA and the SGA Senate, who presumably would like to be more than a source of humor to the students it serves.

the davidsonian

“The meaning of the message is the change that it produces in the image” - Kenneth Boulding

Matthew Covington.................... Editor
Chuck Cannon.......................... Managing Editor
Monon Gettier.......................... Business Manager
Leah Venable........................... Photography Editor
Susan Cohen............................ Production Manager
Richard Boyce......................... Editorial Page Editor
Portia Smith............................. News Editor
Phil Jones................................. Sports Editor
Anne Ficklen............................ Features Editor
David Trador............................ Advertising Manager
Rick Miller............................... Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

By ANTHONY ABBOTT
Professor of English

When I was in college I did not write. I know that Princeton, like most colleges and universities, had a “serious” literary magazine and a humor magazine. There were a small number of students who wrote for each magazine, and, during my years at Princeton, both magazines were on the verge of extinction because of large-scale student apathy toward them. I suspect the same is true at Davidson today: I see relatively little student interest in writing. In this article, I would like to explore some of the reasons for that situation.

To begin with, most Davidson students are rational-analytical types, rather than intuitive-feeling types. They tend to handle the hard sciences, mathematics, and economics very well. Many are preparing for the study of medicine or law, both of which reward those who have sharp, analytical minds. Students of this type excel at Davidson, and most of them do not find writing particularly congenial to their natures. At the same time, other students, who may be more temperamentally inclined to writing, do not find time for it; or to put it in different language, they do not give writing a very high priority in their schedules. There is a tendency among Davidson students to view writing as a luxury, something that one does as an “extra,” if one has leisure time. It might be fun to write an occasional short story or poem, but it is not something one does as a part of one’s normal, everyday life. Thus the number of students who write is severely limited both by the temperament of the average Davidson student and by the demands of a Davidson schedule.

Some students feel that there would be more and better writing done at Davidson if it were more widely encouraged by the faculty. I think that is true, but before I develop that point, I should mention what is being done. First of all, there are outlets for student writing: The Miscellany, a respected national literary magazine; “Inside Art,” a recent addition to The Davidsonian; and Inklings, an annual publication of freshman writing sponsored by the English Department. The Vereen Bell Prize and the Windley Hall Prize give student writers both public recognition and financial awards. The English department, under the leadership of Professors Purcell and Holland, hosts an informal writing group which meets at faculty homes to hear student and faculty work in progress. Professor Paul Newman, a poet from Queens College in Charlotte, teaches an annual course in creative writing, and students who wish may take creative writing for credit as independent study with most members of the English department. Given the demands on their time, I think that most members of the English department here do a good job of supporting and encouraging creative writing on the part of students.

But much more could be done, and should be done if Davidson is to take its role as a liberal arts college seriously. Writing is one of the truly humane and liberating acts that a person may perform, and until a larger number of students begin to understand what writing is and why it is important, we will continue to neglect one of man’s highest monuments. William Carlos Williams was a doctor, Wallace Stevens an insurance salesman, T. S. Eliot a bank clerk. For them, writing was a necessary act, not a frivolous pastime for their leisure hours. It was the means by which they could give written expression to the hopes and fears, the longings and anxieties of their souls. It was a means of self-definition through the imagination, a way of reaching down through their outward roles to the deeper recesses of the soul for images to express their understanding of reality. Whether one writes for publication or not, the writing of poetry, fiction, and personal journals and diaries can become a means of personal growth, an outlet for feelings, and a way of improving one’s way with words. Writing can become a means of sharpening one’s vision. “What you see is what you get,” said Annie Dillard in Pilgrim at Tinker Creek. If writers are more