March 26, 1976

The Davidsonian

Wildcat Trackmen

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

The Wildcat track team now holds a 2-1 record after defeating Lynchburg College here Saturday and splitting a dual meet with Wake Forest and High Point College at Wake Forest Tuesday.

Saturday’s meet was expected to be close, but fourteen first places and several surprising second and third place finishes helped the Cats to a decisive 98-65 victory. Three school records were set in the meet. In the hammer throw, Davidson took all three places, with Jerry Taylor’s 134’6” first place throw, the first new record of the day. In other field events, Davidson had first place performances by Ray Berberick in the javelin with 141’2”, Allen Schaberg with 130’2” in the discus, and John Stanfield in the high jump with a leap of 6’6”, another school record.

In other events, Doug Horn set the third school record of the day in the steeplechase with a time of 9:44, thereby breaking Bob Lautensack’s old record. Horn also took the 880 yard run with a time of 1:59.4. Another double victor, Carl McPhail, won the 120 yard high hurdles in 15.5 and the 440 yard intermediate hurdles in 57.0, just three-tenths of a second off the school mark. Fred Borch, the third Wildcat trackman with two firsts in the meet, won the mile in 4:25.5 and the three-mile run in 14:59.6. Steve Justus took the 440 dash in 52.3, and David Swaim gave the Cats a sprint victory by winning the 100 yard dash in 10.1.

Although the meet was decided earlier, the final event of the day, the mile relay, was one of the most hotly contested of the races. The Davidson team, after being behind for two laps, caught up when Jim Douglas closed the gap in the third lap and won the event when anchor man Mark Postove overtook the Lynchburg runner and held the lead until the finish. The other members of the relay team were Steve Justus and Bruce Corser.

DAVID SWAIM dives across the tape as he leaves the field behind in the 100 yard Dash.

The Cats did not fare quite as well Tuesday, when they beat High Point 60-45 but were beaten 84-60 by Wake Forest in a tri-meet in Winston-Salem. Davidson only posted three first places in the meet: John Stanfield in the high jump, John Lewis in the pole vault.

Wildcat Hitting Batters Appalachian St.

By WAYNE CROSS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s baseball team went two for three against Fairfield and Appalachian this week, upping their record to 4-11 and 2-1 in conference play. The team split a doubleheader at East Carolina last Saturday, losing the first game 3-0, and with strong pitching from Tim Barr, won the second game 3-2.

Monday and Tuesday saw the Wildcats on the field against the Stags of Fairfield College. The Cats won on Monday by a score of 9-6, but poor pitching and batting led them to an 11-1 loss on Tuesday. On Wednesday, everything that went wrong on Tuesday went right, and Davidson won against Appalachian State University by the score of 9-6. On the mound, Mike Hall worked his way...out of a few major offensive threats by the Mountaineers to go all the way for the Wildcats. His excellent pitching, coupled with some long-awaited batting prowess by Jim Nichols, Stan Brown, Ed Willingham, and others in the line-up proved too much for the Apps. "Hitting has been our problem all along," said Coach Palmer Muench. "When we hit, we win; when we don’t, we don’t."

Pitching hasn’t been much of a problem for the team, but the players have lacked confidence at the plate. Perhaps the flurry of hits in Wednesday's game will turn things around for the Cats. Besides past weak hitting, a new problem has arisen for Davidson’s highly touted pitching staff. Tim Barr, formerly number two in the pitching line-up, re-injured his right knee Monday night in IMAC volleyball competition. His absence throughout the rest of the season could be a factor in the Wildcats' bid for the Southern Conference crown.

With a winning conference record at the moment, Mike Hall suggested that perhaps the team "gets up" more for Conference games than the others. He reiterated what Coach Muench said about hitting being the key to winning and added that when Willingham or centerfielder Mitch Stone have a good day at the plate, the others, particularly freshmen Tim McDowell, Tim Goodell, and Rick Blinkhorn, seem to follow suit. Blinkhorn was also singled out by Coach Muench for his improvement, both offensively and defensively.

Coach Muench wisely avoided making any predictions he might have for later games and simply said, "We'll play ’em one at a time. If we can keep our confidence and hitting up, then we should be alright."

The doubleheader against V.M.I. here on Saturday will provide a good opportunity for the Wildcats to entrench themselves high in the conference standing and allow Davidson baseball fans an exciting afternoon out-of-doors.

-Pete Goodman

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

set three records bee a Se ee -Pete Goodman) and the team of Schermer, Boehner, McPhail, and Swaim in the 440 relay, that victory by default. Not counting the relay team, four Wildcats placed in more than one event, being McPhail, Borch, Taylor, and Milt McCurdy, with 4th, 2nd, 2nd, and 2nd places respectively. Borch’s performance in the three-mile run, although second in the race, was nevertheless a new Davidson record at 14:44. The track Cats’ next action will be Tuesday, March 30 when they face Washington and Lee there.

FOR AS LITTLE AS $299! ROUNDTRIP FROM RALEIGH MAY 28 - JUNE 12

ALL RESERVATIONS FOR ABOVE CHARTER FLIGHT TO LONDON MUST BE RECEIVED BY MARCH 28TH. SEND FOR SCHEDULE OF OTHER FLIGHTS TODAY. The minimum price is for a full roundtrip flight and already includes a service charge. If all seats are not sold, the price may be increased up to 20%—never any higher. The only additional charge is $3.00 U.S. tax and foreign departure tax.

For Brochure & Details Call Statesville Travel Service, Inc.
DAVIDSON-CHARLOTTE AREA
892-1138