January 30, 1976

The Davidsonian

George Wald, internationally renowned Nobel Prize winner and Harvard Professor of Biology, arrives in Davidson next week as the second
in a series of Reynolds lecturers.

Wald will be here Monday through Wednesday of next week. He will present public lectures on Monday and Tuesday nights.
Monday night Wald will speak on "Life in the Universe." Tuesday night’s presentation will be on "The Origins of Death."

Wald will be available for discussion groups at various times during the day on Monday and Tuesday in the Morrison
Room, according to Union Director C. Shaw Smith.

Wald received his Bachelor of Science degree from New York University and his Ph.D. from Columbia. Since receiving his Ph.D.,
Wald has studied in Berlin, Heidelberg, Zurich, and Cambridge.

In 1967, Wald received the Nobel Prize for Medicine in recognition of his contribution to medicine in the areas of
vision and perception. Wald has done extensive research in human color vision and color blindness and on human vision and
the color spectrum.

WALD

Baskin presents programs, seeks greater orientation

By STEVEN BELL
Staff Writer

SGA President Bo Baskin presented his "Winter Agenda," the program of SGA projects for the next few months, at the
Senate meeting Tuesday night. On the list are an evaluation of coeducation, another attempt to initiate night exams, establishment of
student exchange programs with other colleges, and funding for five-days-a-week psychological counseling.

"The main thing I’d like to see is an orientation for projects in the Senate, with specified goals and deadlines,"
said Baskin. "I hope to see more teamwork in the Senate, with less factionalism. And I also plan to pull
in some people from outside the Senate to work on these things."

Baskin also reported that it appears unlikely the proposed student Bill of Rights will be approved by the Trustees at
their meeting in late February. The section of the Bill which guarantees a student media free from censorship has run
into some opposition among some of the trustees, and a compromise has yet to be reached.

"I would say it is unlikely that we can work this out in time for approval at the Trustees’ meeting,"
said Baskin. "Even if we can reach a compromise soon, there are still a number of hurdles to be crossed:
Governance Committee approval, faculty approval, and Senate approval."

"We could take it in a piecemeal fashion, submitting all of the Bill except for the media section, to the
Trustees in February. But that is not our inclination," he pointed out.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR

THURS 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00

25¢ DRAFT

YOGURT SALE
3/$1.00

FRIDAY THRU SUNDAY

EVERY THURSDAY, FRIDAY, AND SATURDAY

THEY’RE DRINKING UPSTAIRS NOW

Sheikh on oil

[Continued from page 2]

Ali suggests that the increase in oil prices has come about because the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) of
the Middle East supplies so much of the world’s oil.

"The Middle East has 76 percent of the existing oil reserves in the non-communist world and produces 46 percent of
the oil used. When they control that big a source, they are able to use it to gain political and
economic position," said Ali.

"The increases in 1973 were for political reasons, the increases more recently have been to improve economic situation."

Ali pointed out that many critics of American oil companies claim that the "oil sovereignty" which the OPEC nations now
enjoy could have been avoided if American interests had looked for oil in other places during the 1960s.

"Many critics believe that oil companies deliberately manipulated and created the oil crisis in 1974. They argued that oil companies
had failed to develop oil resources all over the world, as they are doing now.

"If oil companies had looked in the 50s or 60s they would have found oil all over the world. They
concentrated on Middle East oil because it was so cheap in the 50s, 15 or 16 cents a barrel," said
Ali, who believes that the powerful OPEC may disintegrate soon.

Miller speaks

[Continued from page 2]

of the Armed Forces to fire MacArthur.

"Nixon thought he could get away with it."

Miller, who is in the process of writing a similar biography of Lyndon B. Johnson, denied that he had any
plans to write a Nixon biography.

"There isn’t the remotest chance of me writing a Nixon biography, even though I would like to, unless you get
him on the booze. Which isn’t too difficult--he’s a big drinker," said Miller. "I really think he’ll die with all
his secrets."

Miller attended the University of Iowa, but never received a degree due to "a pronounced disinclination to comply with the
school’s requirements for military training."

During the McCarthy era, Miller was publicly blacklisted for his outspoken social comments.

DOLLAR DAYS at John Mack’s thru Sat., Jan. 31

SWEATERS

Buy 1 at regular price. Get another of same value for only $1.00

Open Friday Nights

John Mack & Son
Mooresville
