October 1, 1976 —— Passing the library last Thursday night, I witnessed a phenomenon which, to my Davidson-adjusted eyes, appeared
rather extraordinary, if not downright revolutionary. Students, alone and in packs, were swarming out and away from the front doors
of the library, spreading across the campus in sundry decidedly non-academic directions. “Surely this must be The Second Coming!” I
cried. “What other cosmic event could possibly pull all these yet fresh academicians from their GPA-sustaining stalls?” I looked closer.
To my chagrin, they appeared calm enough. In fact, to my surprise and disbelief, they seemed headed toward some definite
and attainable goal. Could it be? Still basking in the awesome and distinctly non-collegiate feeling of preparing to participate in
an authentic “event” of the outside world, I had haughtily assumed that I, of course, would be one of the
few altruistic (or naive?) enough to do so. Surely, this fast-approaching political event was not for all. But, no, both
to my astonishment and briefly stimulated hope for things to come, I realized that a large proportion of students, if
not, indeed, a majority, were headed the same direction as I. Where? And for what? It was 9:30 pm, Thursday,
September 23. Jimmy Carter and Jerry Ford, after the most intensive cramming since freshman quarter Humanities, were preparing to debate.
Oh, if only someone had shaken the stars from my eyes as I faithfully read the Washington Post that summer,
thinking such knowledge of generalities indispensable in evaluating the specifics of these battles ahead. Oh, if only someone had silenced
my sniggers as Newsweek gave more coverage to such topics as Ford’s balding pate, Carter’s four-inch height deficit and a
subtle means of securing water glasses from embarrassing falls, than this magazine did to the topics to be discussed. Oh,
if only I could have foreseen the consequences of all these unusually enthusiastic students watching what must ultimately stand as
the supreme example of the irrelevancy of the “politics of politics.” Then, perhaps, I would have thrown down my books
and shouted, “Get thee to a carrel! Alas, you know not what you do!” Maybe, then, some optimism, though fleeting,
might have been preserved. It was not to be. We all went. We all watched. The effect upon us all
was depressingly the same.

A college with holes in its pockets

Although it was never stated, the college’s attempt to change its policy on issuing athletic equipment was based on financial
reasons. The college did not want to have financial responsibility for the tremendous amount of equipment students use. Note too,
that the Extended Studies program and the Honors Center stand to be eliminated or restricted because of the expenses involved
in continuing them. The Davidson National is gone, at least partially because it was too expensive to maintain. Alumni giving
has been pushed to a record level in terms of dollars raised while the college embarks on a ten-year general
fund raising campaign that is clearly the most ambitious program of its kind ever undertaken here. The business of education
is expensive. In light of the monetary troubles of the times and the various needs of renovation, curriculum expansion, and
physical development, we ask that the college think about how it spends its money. If the college wishes to save
itself some money by getting out of supplying gym equipment and by cutting into curricular programs, what is it saving
money for?

Irv Wilson
Susan Colan
Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis

the davidsonian
Matthew Covington........... Managing Editor
Business Manager
PhotographyEditor in Chief: Alicia Production Manager: C. Moore Editorial Page Editor: A. C. Lee Asst. News Editors: F. S. Bia
Sports Editors: O. S. Vie Features Editors: R. S. Advertising Manager: A. C. Ates Circulation Manager: Published weekly during the
school year by students of Davidson College as an exercise in journalism.

“To the point!” If I had to describe my feelings that night, as I viewed the candidates' monotone and meandering
hodge-podge of the magazine articles I had suffered for so long, I would have to describe them in stages. Because
just as there were three interviewers, so there were three emotions. For me, the “Debates of ’76” were a movement
(or crawling?) from frustration to laughter to despair. An explanation:

Indeed, I must admit my hopes were high. Historical romanticizing of the intellectual battling and victories that were the Nixon-Kennedy
debates had made me expect more than could be delivered. However, I was not, luckily, taken completely unawares. The complicated
mass of rules and regulations accompanying this confrontation had at least forewarned me that this was truly to be neither
a battle of wits nor ideas, but endurance. However, even so, frustration ensued. Despite the media-professed “lack of stands on
the issues,” there was the overwhelming feeling of a continuous and uninterrupted “déjà vu.” Were they even bothering to listen
to questions, or did certain key words kick off programmed “hype” automatically? Did they know that platitudes need specifics and
transformations, explanations, or is “I’m for love and peace and all-encompassing wealth” enough?

And so, I was frustrated. The candidates were saying “what” they wanted and “how” they wanted, deftly breezing over topics,
events, and even words that might cause debate in any real sense. But, such frustration, unless turned to anger, must
come to an end. It did. I laughed. I laughed as isolated shots of the candidates during their opponents’ “replies”
revealed them fumbling inanely as if caught doing embarrassing things with their hands. I laughed at Ford’s endless “Hold the
lid”’s and Carter’s none too deft changes of topic. I laughed as both candidates consistently made sentences more full of
unattached numbers than verbs or nouns. I even laughed, toward the end, at the impotency of the TV networks, who
after squabbling over specifics for weeks, were forced to watch Carter twiddle his thumbs and Ford bulldog it out, while
they themselves were silenced for over half an hour on a technicality.

But, ultimately, as someone (Twain?) said all too truly, “The source of all humor lies in sorrow.” Before long, I
stopped laughing. I was depressed. I was disillusioned. When it came to the end, the viewer dejectedly realized that while
Ford may have had the edge during the first critical 15 minutes, these debates had had no real winner. They
had, though, had a loser. That loser was us. The candidates force-fed us unattached statistics because they knew that was
what we wanted. Numbers alone are impressive, but big numbers are divine. It makes no difference what the total U.S.
budget is. Just quote “two or three billion,” or even “million,” as expenses and people will listen. Money talks. “Hold
the lid.” Yes, it makes no difference that cutting from an infinity to two or three (as in bureaus) makes
no difference if overall numbers remain the same. Hide behind “efficiency.” Efficiency is our God. “Big,” “rich,” and “security” talk.
Insightful solutions take too long. People are bored.

[see DEBATE, page 5]

Attention! The Y-Discussion Group on “Social Relationships” will reconvene this Sunday, October 3, at 9:00 pm at the house of
Mary Lou Dietler. All past participants expected. Any and all newcomers welcome. Call Richard Boyce (-4305) for further information. Hope
to see you there.

Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription
rate: $6.00.
