November 12, The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON GRIDDERS work extra hard in practice this week after losing to Delaware 63-0.

Captains leave Wildcats when gridder program turns corner toward success

By BRUCE HOLLADAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s football captains, Paul Andrews and Jay Kopel, have seen their share of difficult times. In their four seasons with
the Wildcats, Davidson has lost all but a handful of games and has never had a winning season. Now with
only two games left in their careers, Kopel and Andrews face the prospect of leaving a program that is starting
to turn the corner towards success. They will both graduate just when it seems that the Wildcats are ready to
start winning again.

During their four years, Kopel and Andrews have also seen a lot of changes. Coach Dave Fagg was replaced by
Coach Ed Farrell their sophomore year and according to Andrews some of the older players were not content with the
transition. “The people that played under Coach Fagg were dissatisfied with the change. A lot of them lost their starting
positions and instead of working to get them back they just sat around and refused to do anything.” Kopel agrees
that there was initially an attitude problem but now feels that Farrell’s program is starting to work. “The program has
been coming along since Coach Farrell has been here. It’s just that it has only surfaced to the public this
year. But even last year when we were getting annihilated we could see a greater unity and a much better
attitude.”

Davidson has also deemphasized its Division I football program since Kopel and Andrews first came in favor of a more
or less Division II schedule. Kopel feels that the change was necessary in Davidson’s case. “I never accepted the term
‘deemphasis’. I felt it was more a matter of being realistic. Davidson was absurdly kidding itself when they were trying
to compete with teams that gave away twice as many scholarships.”

Combining football with academics has presented a severe problem for many players and only six seniors remain from the original
freshmen players that arrived in Davidson in the fall of 1973. Since there are so few seniors, Andrews and Kopel
have an added measure of responsibility for leading the squad. “I don’t look at it as a burden but it
is a reality,” noted Andrews. “A lot of times younger players haven’t developed a field sense and sometimes a play
or two will get them down. We have to keep them going.”

For the first time since 1969, a Davidson team won two games in a row this year and in all
games but Delaware, the Wildcats have been in contention. Kopel views the program as getting consistently better. “We have a
lot of confidence in ourselves this year and a lot of respect for ourselves. We’ve never been satisfied with anything
less than winning and I feel the program, without a doubt, is snowballing right now.” Andrews has no regrets in
selecting Davidson over other schools but is bothered by people who feel that...

Delaware blasts gridders

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

It was one of those days for the Davidson football team as they were annihilated 63-0 by Delaware last Saturday.
The Wildcat offense was ineffective and the defense was plagued by injuries and fatigue. Coach Ed Farrell aptly described the
contest when he commented, “They were simply a better team. In fact, they are the toughest team we have played
since I have been at Davidson. I’m just glad it’s over.” The Davidson offense didn’t show any sign of life
until...Davidson football is not to be taken seriously. “A lot of people think that Davidson football is not real college
football. But the fact is that the people who play here could also have played at much larger schools. I
think the people at Davidson have a misconception about the quality of people that come here to play.” Andrews and
Kopel have been helping to build the foundation for a winning football program, but they themselves will never play for
those teams. Still, each is content with his contribution to that hoped-for future success. “I’m thankful that Paul and I
have been here long enough to see around the corner. Those guys two years ago left seeing nothing in the
program,” Kopel explained. “It would be nice to be on the winning teams that we’re going to have,” stated Andrews,
“but I’m going to get a lot of satisfaction in knowing that the program turned around while I was here.”

Davidson College Union — Snack Bar Special
Bar-B-Q Sandwiches Only 65¢
Thursday, Nov. 11 — 10 am till All Gone

managed a first down late in the third quarter. In the first half, the Wildcats had minus three yards rushing,
none passing, and were generally ineffective. For the game, the Davidson offense only had 90 yards and five first downs.
Meanwhile, the Delaware offense was running up a 28-0 first half lead, capitalizing on early injuries to two of Davidson’s
key defensive backs, Jim Nichols and Lee Wilder. Nichols will be lost for the remainder of the season. Delaware substituted
freely in the second half, using fresh players that were able to take advantage of an exhausted Davidson defense. Delaware
tallied 28 points in the third quarter and added a touchdown in the final quarter to make the score 63-0.
Farrell cited linebackers Paul Andrews and Cliff Hester for an outstanding effort on defense. On offense, Farrell felt that Eddie
Setser turned in a solid performance despite his involvement in Davidson’s unluckiest play of the day. As Delaware kicked off
following a third quarter touchdown, Setser and Virgil Fludd were back to receive. The ball was held up by the
wind and hit Setser on the helmet, rolling into the end zone where a Delaware player pounced on it for
a touchdown. “Eddie will probably be remembered for the infamous play, but he did make a tremendous contribution to our
kicking game. He carried out his assignments well and turned in a solid performance,” said Farrell.

Farrell feels that the Delaware game was no indication of the quality of the Davidson team. “Delaware is one of
the best Division II teams in the country and they were simply out of our class. Of the 77 members
of their varsity team, none are freshmen. Their offensive line consists of six seniors and one junior. I consider the
game in light of the specific day and not as a measure of our overall program. We have made tremendous
progress this season and I feel we will continue the progress.” In preparation for next week’s game, Farrell plans to
give the team a chance to recuperate both physically and mentally. Saturday, the Wildcats, 2-4-1, will play Lafayette, in their
last home game.

WORLD FAMOUS
PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS
375-1449
1518 W. MOREHEAD

US’ ORIGINAL
PIZZA + TAKE OUT SERVICE
596-0256
HWY 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD
