February 13, 1976

the davidsonian

Shooters post year high at SC State

By PETE GOODMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rifle Team crushed South Carolina State last Saturday in Orangeburg, South Carolina.

The Davidson shooters boosted their season record to two wins and two losses by posting a team score of 1246,
a season high. South Carolina State scored a 1217.

High man for the Cats was Team Captain Pete Goodman, who shot his season best of 257.

Tom Miller was second for Davidson, shooting a 253. Goodman and Miller tied for high standing in the match with
79’s.

Other scores for the riflemen were Tom Niblock’s 251, Katherine Whitney’s 244, and Ben Simm’s 241. Whitney shot the high
prone score for the match, a 94.

Simms, who usually shoots higher, had equipment problems which shortened his shooting time. All told, Davidson took second, third, fifth,
sixth, and eighth places in the meet.

When asked about the match, Team Captain Pete Goodman said that he was glad to see so much progress from
such a young team.

“I was on this team for two years before we reached this level.” He said that with Simm’s shooting up
to par, the team could be expected to shoot in the 1260’s, a highly competitive level.

“We got started slow,” he said, “but with this level of talent there’s no telling how far they might go.
Next year should be even better, because all but one of us will be back.”

The team will travel next week to Orangeburg again, for the Western Carolina Conference Tournament.

VMI downs Cats
Gerdy leads stats

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

Davidson sunk further into the Southern Conference cellar with a 92-76 loss to the hustling Keydets of VMI last night.

The loss left the Wildcats with a 1-7 record in conference play, while the win moved VMI to within a
half a game of the conference leaders William and Mary. W. and M. comes to Johnston Gym Saturday standing 6-2,
while the Keydets are now 6-3.

The Wildcats stayed with their military opponents for most of the first half but the Keydets’ guns were ablaze as
they hit on 64.7 percent of their floor shots.

Only John Gerdy’s hot touch kept Davidson reasonably close as he poured in 20 points in the first half. After
20 minutes, VMI led by nine, 45-36.

The halftime intermission did not cool off the Keydets and they singed the nets at a 56 percent clip. Jay
Powell took over the Wildcats’ second half scoring punch by pumping in 15 points in the final 20 minutes.

The Wildcats did manage to pull within three several times early in the second half, but the fine play of
the Keydet guards John Krovic and Ron Carter kept Davidson from turning the game around. Krovic and Carter combined for
41 points, hitting on 16 of 25 shots.

VMI built their lead to 63-52 with 10:39 left, and the Wildcats were never to threaten again.

The loss to VMI was the Wildcats’ first in 21 games against the school. Krovic was the visitors' leading scorer
with 21, while Carter added 20.

Krovic’s last points with five minutes left gave him 1000 career points, thus becoming the seventh VMI player to obtain
that total. He now stands only 23 points behind Bill Blair, the Keydet coach’s total. Being just a junior, Krovic
has a good shot at breaking the VMI scoring record of 1,328.

John Gerdy led the Davidson effort with 26, and Jay Powell finished with 17. They were the only Davidson players
in double figures. The Wildcats hit just 47.8 percent of their shots, compared with VMI’s percentage of 61 percent.

The Wildcats’ next game is Saturday afternoon at 2 pm in Johnston Gym against the conference-leading Indians from William and
Mary.

Coach Jerry Flanigan said that he felt the team might have a chance to bring home one of the trophies.
After this, the Cats will return to Davidson for their first home match, a dual meet with Furman and East
Carolina.

“I expect we will win against Furman and E.C.U. easily,” said Goodman. “I’m hoping that we can also arrange a
match with UNCC in the future,” he said.

... Artist funding

(Continued from page 1)

way. You have to begin work a year in advance. You get better prices if you book early. You have
time to shop around and get what you really want.

“Also, two groups are now competing for money. Both are trying to program good cultural programs to enlighten and uplift
the tastes of the community. And they both had small amounts of money to work with,” said Goodhouse.

Goodhouse pointed out that the proposal combined the knowledge, experience, and expertise of the art’s faculty with the manpower, resources,
facilities, and publicity of the Union Board.

“It also combines their monies. It gives the Artist Series a guaranteed source of funding,” he added.

“The fact that we would have more money to program with combined with the greater programming time the proposal allows
opens up to the Artist Series a great many things that have never been possible before.

“For instance, we could look at better artists, a symphony orchestra, a ballet, a drama company, or a modern dance
company.

Cupid's Coming...

Valentine’s Day
Friday, Feb. 14

The Village Store
of Davidson N.C.

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
HOURS:
10AM-5:30PM DAILY

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

Page Gil Mp

Authorized Dealer
Service and Sales

SH OP
MOORESVILLE

This Valentine's Day the Flower Arrangements from THE FLOWER HIVE are sheer poetry. Send an Epic Poem of 12 Roses,
be Lyrical with a "Lovebundle", declaim an Ode in a Centerpiece, We even have Limericks at $2.50!
