the davidsonian

April 16, 1976

8

Fairies uphold old maxim, four teams left unbeaten

By THE THREE FAIRIES

We refuse to take any responsibility, much less credit, for the trash that appeared in this space last week.

We were passing the time engaging in various unnatural acts when seventeen masked intruders burst into our boudoir, pried us
apart, and carted us off to a week of captivity in the basement of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

The tortures inflicted upon us typified the ultimate depravity of warped human minds. We were compelled to sit through a
three-hour talk on the ethics of contracts by visiting Reynolds lecturer Gary Walters.

We were saved only when the venerable philosopher Mun Dane sensed our plight and, armed with the soundtrack of The
Exorcist, frightened our abductors upstairs to the sanctuary.

We have returned this week to uphold the ancient Davidson maxim: “Reality through Perversion.”

For the idiots who have bugged us all week, here are the scores:

In softball, the Clap ran into the highly effective prophylactic actions of its two opponents, Passive Indifference and the Masterbatters.

High Llama of IMAC short-fielders Ronny Powell is being held responsible for both defeats, because he threatened to burn our
house down if we mentioned his name. Burn, baby, burn. L’il Owsky clipped the Castrati, 10-5. A real thriller.

The Flaming A’s, making sure Mike Gibson was at the game and no doubt benefitting from the wondrous officiating of
Paul “It Bounced for a Strike” Japp and John “Safe, er, Out” Tatum, burned the Wooley Greys, 6-3.

PIKA’s seven-run first inning outmaneuvered Buford’s Battalion, as they coasted to a 12-7 victory.

Phi Delt #2 picked up a forfeit over Trudy’s Bakery. In a close one, Curt, upstart freshmen Cannon II nipped
the Aintry Squealers, 2-1.

The Bongs rolled Baby Rick’s Bar and Grill, 12-4, scoring in every inning. Finally, in extra innings, the Whizz Kids
sat on Your Face, 9-8.

On to the excitement of volleyball. Yawn. In the battle of phallic symbols, the Moby Dicks peeled the Banana Bunch.

The Dicks did not achieve happiness as their dreams of an undefeated season were shattered by a forfeit to the
relieved Mistakes. Men’s play was so pitiful we will attempt to forget that last week happened.

Going into next week’s tournament, four teams remain undefeated, SAE #1, SPE #1, Delt #1, and another team our dulled
minds cannot recall.

Until next week, ten million flies can’t be wrong.

WILLARD ROSS of the Castrati swings for glory to no avail against the mighty pitching of L’il Owsky.

-Pete Goodman

Cat ruggers destroy Marines, 30-9

By FRANK HAMILTON Staff Writer

Although the Davidson Ruggers managed to out-score the Marines from Camp Lejeune 30-9, the team was dissatisfied with their performance.
Davidson’s offense was sporadic, and the defense was totally lackadaisical. Many players felt that the exhausting sun and a 90-minute
delay of the kickoff (due to the late arrival of the Marines) caused the mediocre performance.

The offensive highlights began as Chip Crawford cracked the Leatherneck backfield for the match’s most dazzling try. Mark Armstrong followed
quickly with another try diving over the entire Lejeune scrum, revealing some rather inconspicuous agility.

Davidson’s offense and defense then lagged, and the Leathernecks bounced back with a try and field goal. With minutes remaining
in the first half, however, Reverend Frank Hamilton scored a try that set the tally at 18-9. Davidson’s offense also
showed brief moments of capability in the second half. Victor Macmillan snaked in two tries. The match’s most consistent performance
was given by Jeff Heslop, who converted all 5 of the point-after-try kicks. The final score stood at 30-9.

This final margin is somewhat misleading because it was actually Lejeune’s inability to realize the rules of the game, rather
than a fine defensive effort on Davidson’s part, that created such a large margin.

Constant infractions pinned the Leathernecks against their own try line. The Marines were obviously more aggressive and much more physically
fit than the Davidson Ruggers.

The veteran Carlton Cooke precisely described the situation: “If Lejeune had known the rules, it would’ve been a different match.”

Davidson’s next match is Sunday afternoon. Davidson faces the Keydets of VMI, conceivably the toughest team on the Davidson schedule.
In hopes of coping with VMI’s power, Davidson’s coach Dr. Devon is juggling the Davidson backfield.

Provided that the nerves in Pete Johnson’s back become “unpinched,” that Bucky Banks’ knee is functional, and that Wilbourn Swaim
and Mark Connors realize that Track is not top priority, then this Sunday’s match will be the one to see.

-Pete Goodman

Friday, Apr. 16 8 & 10:30 P.M.

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

MY FAIR LADY
