April 30, 1976

Active Ada Jenkins offers variety

Staff Writer

Desegregation closed the doors of Davidson’s black elementary school in 1966. The doors of the Ada Jenkins School remained closed
until the Fall of 1974, when the old schoolhouse was converted into the Davidson Community Center. Today the Center operates
in relative obscurity across the railroad tracks. Very few students know of the Center, much less what it does. Despite
the shroud of obscurity, the Center offers a wide range of opportunities and provides many useful services.

The revenue sharing program of the Federal Government provides the funds for running the Center. Mecklenburg County employs four full-time
workers at the Center. Kathy Harp is the director of Ada Jenkins, and she is responsible for the organization and
administration of the Center.

Various programs are offered at Ada Jenkins, and the degree of participation in the programs varies also. The programs and
services range from food stamp clinics and legal aid to recreation programs and hot meals for the elderly. According to
Harp, the hot meals program is one of the most successful programs at the Center. Originally, hot lunches were provided
three times a week for the elderly, but participation was so great that lunches are now served five days a
week. Sixty to eighty lunches are served at the Center, and another 40 are delivered to the housebound. There is
now a waiting list to enter the program, and Harp feels the popularity is because “the old people just don’t
want to eat alone.”

Recreational programs are provided year-round at the Center. Each day after school, about 40 children take part in the program.
The evening and night are reserved for teenage and adult recreation. Billy Warren and Dora Barrenger direct the recreation activities.

Homemaking and handicraft skills are taught in the evening at the Center. Slight fees are charged to those interested in
improving their sewing, upholstery, and ceramic skills. These practical skills classes are popular with the townspeople.

Another of the more successful programs which uses the Community Center is the Schoolhouse of the Arts. Each week, people
of all ages are taught acting, drama, and art under the tutelage of Elizabeth Bradford and Mrs. Connie Welsh. Presently,
the registration in this program stands at 171 persons.

Kathy Harp feels that the Center has been successful thus far. The major problems facing the Center, according to Harp,
are repairs and upkeep, and planning so that everyone can use the facilities. At this time, the Center is cramped
for space, and that is a good sign, for it means there is active participation in the programs offered.

By DUFF BRUCE
Staff Writer

Every year at this time (or even earlier) I start to get anxious to see baseball being played. It is
an urge I share with countless others, but each of us has individual affinities connecting the sport to our own
lives. I am not only speaking of loyalty to a favorite team, but also a basic enjoyment of the game
itself. I don’t think I am relaying startling information when I say that sports in the past ten years have
become a deluge of intolerant replay, expansion of existing leagues, salary disputes, and other characteristics which are either boring or
destructive to the basic idea of spectator sports as a diversion and not as a satellite-transmitted mega-event.

Although I follow all sports to some extent, in this video age my favorite remains baseball. This is a bit
ironic because baseball is the least gripping of the major sports seen on television. I do not expect to convert
any of you into baseball fanatics, but I do hope to entice you to go to a big league park,
or to a Davidson game, or even to the lawn in front of Belk with a ball and glove in
your hands. The greatest thing about the game for me is its pace: it is the only major sport with
no time limit. The basic field layout has not changed in almost one hundred years. The distance of ninety feet
between the bases lends itself exactly to infield putouts, stealing bases, and outfield throws to nail runners. A distance of
sixty and one-half feet separates the pitcher from the batter, giving...a hitter roughly three-fifths of a second to decide whether
it will be a strike or not. I will not try to convince anyone that all baseball games are interesting,
but to me the fact that two teams can play twice and have a 15-1 game and then a 3-2
game is an essential part of its charm. The game is only dull when one doesn’t realize all the possibilities.
Baseball has more strategy involved in every offensive and defensive play or alignment than any sport. The players may seem
languid on the field, but in an instant the ball could be hit at any one of them. In a
tight game with men on base, the tension in a ballpark can be numbing, with every pitch assuming the importance
of a clutch basketball free throw. When watching a good game, I find it easy to forget what level of
play I’m observing. It could be the Reds and Braves, the Charlotte Orioles and the Lookouts of Chattanooga, or the
Wildcats and Richmond. The essentials of the game are the same. The possibilities are the same.

I was one of those baseball brats who knew basic statistics for every team and player. The only reason I
was interested in learning long division was so that I could keep up with Mickey Mantle’s batting average daily. Now
I appreciate a good box score of a game from a newspaper because you can reconstruct an entire game from
it. This can’t be done with any other sport.

I used to spend all of my summers in the mountains with my grandparents. Paps is a great fan and
we used to pitch and hit flies three times a day. He was a fine player in his day and
his memories were of Ty Cobb, Shoeless Joe Jackson, Christy Mathewson, and Babe Ruth. I used to drill him for
hours about these great players and compare them in my mind to my heroes. Kids who follow other sports may
see mannerisms from a star, but as a baseball observer, I made it my business to amalgamate my fantasies. I
could make a basket catch like Willie Mays, roll my cap like Mantle, run with my elbows up like Aaron,
and spit like Nellie Fox.

I hope you will avail yourself of the pleasures of a big league game this summer. The Orioles are a
great way to see the game up close, and our own Wildcats have had some fine games this year as
well. If you want to know the statistics of literally every player and team that has been associated with pro
ball, get the Baseball Encyclopedia. Other good books are The Summer Game by Roger Angell, The Story of Their Times
by Lawrence Ritter, and The Boys of Summer by Roger Kahn.

A few weeks ago I watched Davidson beat Richmond in a well-played game. It was a great day spent on
the right field bank with friends and beer and idle conversation. The players were gone and the field had been
dragged and watered, and I was ready to leave when Palmer Muench and his son reappeared for some batting practice.
It was incredibly nice sipping, talking, and hearing the crack of that distant bat. It’s one of those things one
must experience and I hope you will.

Bazbo reduced to hulk
By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Bazbo sat contemplating the strange disappearances, totally unaware of the strange globe which by now was as large as its
intended. The glowing subsided as the ball drifted closer to Flash. He turned just in time to see the wall
of the globe open; a blinding light accompanied by a piercing scream reduced Bazbo to a lifeless hulk. The globe
slowly engulfed the hapless Space Cadet. Its task completed, the strange apparition rolled to the door, and after what could
only be interpreted as a furtive glance, flew down the hall.

For the connoisseur only, this week’s quiz:
1) According to his captor, what killed King Kong?
2) In the Our Gang comedies, what was Alfalfa’s surname?
3) Speaking of names, give the real names of the five Marx brothers.
4) Moe and Larry would attack Curly upon hearing the words — — ——— +————
5) In Casablanca, who sang “As Time Goes By”?

Answers:
1) Beauty
2) Switzer
3) Leonard, Adolph, Julius, Milton, Herbert
4) “Niagara Falls”
5) Dooley Wilson
