the davidsonian
January 30, 1976

Tenure demands faculty evaluation
By EARL MACCORMAC
Professor of Philosophy

Tenure without faculty evaluation will perish because of the growing public uneasiness about a system that only insures job security. Designed to protect academic freedom, tenure too often becomes a bulwark defending the establishment of comfort and mediocre performance. Unless we can convince people outside the ivory towers of the valuable role which dissent protected by academic freedom can play in a democratic society, and academics inside that they need to make the tenure system work, tenure will not persist too much longer. Legislators, trustees, regents, and administrators have already begun to raise serious objections to tenure, and professors who confidently believe that they will be sheltered by tenure for the rest of their careers may have a rude awakening.

Never before has there been as much discussion of tenure. The ubiquitous undercurrent of conversation at professional meetings these days concerns both finances and tenure, and the two are not unrelated for the financial crisis of higher education has brought the issue of tenure into sharp focus. Professors who believe that they have no stake in faculty evaluation beyond a scrutiny of their own performance seriously undermine public confidence in the tenure system. If we expect the public to accept tenure as a guarantee for academic freedom, we must demonstrate a willingness to undertake the job of faculty evaluation ourselves. Tenured faculty ought to band together and assist each other in their professional growth to become better scholars and teachers. Teaching can be extremely frustrating, especially as the young professor attempts to convey his insights and enthusiasm to students interested primarily in entrance into a professional school and therefore obsessed with grades. After several disheartening years, the professor may give [see TENURE, page 5]

Sahara of the beaux arts

An organization which openly refuses to keep an artistic asset such as the Davidson National alive could by appearance be jeopardizing its chances for a grant to construct and maintain an art gallery, something Davidson says it wants. Davidson College will be a good college if it loses the Davidson National, but it will be a harmed college, a college which has apparently stopped trying to grow inside of itself in favor of capital improvements. Davidson renovated a union, they built a library, they are going to build a fine arts center and a chemistry facility, but what is going to go inside of these buildings? By behaving as if it has no brain, Davidson College is effectively removing the heart from the buildings it will construct.

Herb Jackson, who has been running the Davidson National alone, apparently wants the Davidson National to die because it has outlived its usefulness to him. There is the possibility which must be investigated that Jackson might be willing to lend some of his artistic professionalism in an advisory capacity to continue the show under different management. This management might come from the Town of Davidson with partial funding from the college. Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler suggested that he is interested. The funds to employ a competent part-time staff could be administered by the College Union as part of a cultural outreach program. Before this can happen, however, the Union must undergo a budget tightening. If the College Union keeps such sloppy books that three departmental deficits amounting to nearly $4,000 can be overlooked because money elsewhere in the budget covers them, the Union budgeting is too sloppy to be trusted with additional funds to help the Davidson National. When the Union budgets each of its departments accurately and adheres to this budget, then it will prove itself worthy of administering the money the college must allot to find and pay an appropriate staff to carry on the Davidson National.

the davidsonian
Matthew Covington..............-++ CONMIGO ICOLINIONN . ss ces Sikes cascenstacts MIT ICUAGT\ cides co cc teeta re iecse o's aces BOR VENEDIO.. ccascccccdsascessessoces Susan Colan......... Basia ars een cren Richard Boyce........5....cccsseeeeess Par RINE eo ok owevsiecssceessesgecrcs PRBVICE FOOTIGTs decis ci eecdeeoscodedses Anne Ficklen.............e-seeeee BE POUIM TIEOGL cc cc sc kcs itis occeessovesis Rick Miller.......-:ceeeeeeeeereeetes ai. ett PET ee ETT fr LLC byrersavesi tae Managing Editor bcacdeee eens Business Manager ee ay Photography Editor Bt ecaigaie Production Manager Wee ieetes Editorial Page Editor Siok edar ner tectssins News Editor ig oe Seay Sports Editor Ree teapieises Features Editor eS ee Advertising Manager Nt PET Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

"75 NATIONAL 22 3 OPENS aoe See oi. ME ES Ee Sy Beeps Gk Rien MH: AES EE e SACRE OU & i 3 me oN

Administrative flurries leave irked Snow cold

By TONY SNOW Associate Editor

President Spencer’s suggestion that we should stop paying hall counselors because Williams College doesn’t pay theirs is an interesting example of logical contortionism which can be interpreted in one of two ways. Either 1) Spencer is making Williams a standard for future decisions or 2) he is veiling an immensely unpopular decision in the rhetoric of academic Baal worship.

Suppose for a moment that he is following the first alternative—that we are embarking upon a grand scheme of “Williamization.” That being the case we should expect to find adequate natural science facilities on this campus within a matter of months. Surely the prospects of fully equipped lab stations are enough to warm the hearts of all pre-meds. Williamization would entail far more than finding a new home for the Bunsen burners, though. For instance, we might form a rowing team... or go yacht racing on the briny Atlantic. We could start a rowing team and enter in the crew competitions on the Charles River. The possibilities for Williamization are absolutely staggering. Just imagine a 50 million endowment, minority students, and snow in December. The thought of becoming just like Williams sends chills up my spine. Of course, Christian tenure would have to go.

Dr. Johnston’s observation that “we were a good college before the Davidson National and we'll be a good college after the national, too” is either a spectacularly successful attempt to inject some sick humor into the college community or a symptom of terminal vapidity. I wonder what he would say if the history department decided to pack their bags and leave town? That we would still be a good college? For the moment, at least, it would be a safe bet. But to believe that losing the national is inconsequential, especially to those who have donated their time and effort to make it a truly respectable competition, is absurd. It may not get people into graduate school, but it helps put this place back on the map. At the very least it covers up the incredible lack of fine arts activity on the campus. In fact, some wayward soul might be convinced that it is a cultural oasis rather than a bone-dry mirage.

The “before-and-after” logic of Johnston’s comment is also a scream. If we accept his reasoning, Davidson College shouldn’t need more than maybe Eu and Phi Halls and the two old dormitory rows. After all, it was a good college before the Civil War, and it should be a good one after the war, too. The point is that a “good” college is a purely relative concept, not an eternal truth. The fact that we possess more volumes than Plato’s Academy doesn’t mean that we turn out better work. Instead, a college needs constant change and improvement to remain a lively institution. Rather than supporting a heritage of complacency and obsolescence, then, Dr. Johnston should be happy that we have the National; in fact, we should be seeking other opportunities, too. Otherwise, the cultural side of the college will atrophy away (if it hasn’t already), and we will be no more than a pre-professional diploma mill. Now that’s something to look forward to.

In retrospect, the comments of Drs. Johnston and Spencer are both frightening and disappointing. They reflect the attitudes of men who are trying desperately to live in the past at an institution which has very definite needs for the future. But maybe things are changing. By indulging in comparisons with Williams, Dr. Spencer’s message is clear—We need to change. On the other hand, Dr. Johnston seems to say “Don’t worry about it Sam, we’re a good college anyway. Honest.” I wonder if either of them knows how to play the fiddle?