the davidsonian
April 16, 1976

Three named Watson fellows
By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Davidson College students Andrew T. Lamas, Daniel B. Thorp, and John A. Taylor recently received Watson Fellowships. The Thomas J.
Watson Foundation awards 70 fellowships yearly to students of 35 exceptional liberal arts colleges with under 2500 students. “The purpose
is to provide students with an opportunity to travel and explore a field of their own interests in order to
broaden their interests and understanding of the world,” said Terry.

Each school nominates candidates chosen by local competition to the foundation. The names go into a national pool, and each
candidate is interviewed by a number of the fellowship evaluating team. Lamas and Taylor will receive $7000 funding and Thorp
$9500. Thorp’s additional funding is due to his previous marriage.

Lamas intends to do “An Analysis of the Political Role of Trade Unions in Six African States: Gambia, Lesotho, Botswana,
Swaziland, Ghana, and Zambia.” “What I’m going to do is go around to each of the countries and meet with
officials and the Minister of Labor in each country and attempt to learn what functions trade unions provide for their
membership and the society at large, mainly focusing on those functions which are political in nature,” he said. “An important
secondary purpose of my study is to study the general social service role the trade unions perform to their states.”

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

There were a number of ways that a film version of All the President’s Men, the Bob Woodward-Carl Bernstein Watergate
chronicle, could have fallen flat on its face. “Instant history” of this type could be exploitative, preying on the audience’s
fears or grudges in its reenactment of actual events. That the current film not only succeeds but succeeds incredibly well
can be credited to the fact that, while it is not a dazzlingly fancy film, it is meticulously and solidly
well-made. It is part newspaper film and part detective story, with a dash of suspense thriller thrown in, yet it
manages to avoid the clichés of all these genres. It is, in large part, appealing because of its subject matter;
there’s a certain fascination in watching the reenactment, near the beginning of the film, of that Third Rate Burglary that
we all know and love so well. If nothing else, the film is of considerable importance as marking the entrance
of Watergate into our mass popular culture. But outside of its subject matter, it succeeds because of the appropriate use
of proven film technique. Despite its length (it runs a little over two hours), there’s a feeling of tautness and
economy about the film. William Goldman’s screenplay sticks close to the matter at hand, yet gives the main performers enough
leeway to develop their characters. It is such a carefully wrought script that its very infrequent blemishes (such as when
Woodward and Bernstein wonder how those terrible things could happen in “those neat little houses on this nice little street”)
stand out in sharp relief. Alan J. Pakula’s direction is thoughtful and effective; he knows how to make the most
of any individual moment. Close-ups are used frequently. Our first view of Woodward’s mysterious contact “Deep Throat” is an extreme
close-up of his eyes darting back and forth. The tension is built up carefully during two of the most important
phone conversations: Woodward’s to Kenneth Dahlberg that establishes a connection between a $25,000 check to Bernard Barker and the Committee
to

“My survey of African trade unionism, therefore, is much more than an analysis of union organizations. It is a survey
of African societies, the course of their modernization since independence, and the development of patterns and political power between the
trade unions and state government,” he continued. Lamas chose states on the basis of language, safety for Americans, and nature
of government, narrowing 45 possible states to six. He will gather his data by content analysis of the states’ government
documents, trade union materials, and local newspapers, and by interviewing government and trade union officials. He plans to determine the
political role trade unions perform, the extent socialist ideology influences trade union leaders, and whether there is a strong national
trade union movement within each state. He will also investigate each union’s definition of function with regards to its own
parochial interests, and the problems encountered when building voluntary associations.

Thorp will study the effects of large-scale urban restoration on inhabitants of the towns. “I’m worried that the American government
is going to begin restoring cities and towns before they know the problems involved, and I’m using France to determine
these problems,” said Thorp. In France, the government restores cities and has power of eminent domain over the inhabitants—the power
to move them out in order to restore. Private companies have done most restoration in the United States, but the
government is gradually...Re-elect the President, and Bernstein’s to a furious John Mitchell shortly before an article implicating Mitchell in the
scandal is scheduled to appear. In each case, Pakula sc “Basketball Spring training?” reel to reel reviews becoming involved, according
to Thorp. He will visit the towns of St. Malo, which was restored 30 years ago, and Chartres, which is
in the process of restoration. “I want to talk to people in St. Malo to see what it is like
living in a restored town, and in Chartres to see what it is like living in one being restored,” said
Thorp.

Thorp intends to study what the government is doing in these towns, whether the government buys these houses or just
takes them over, and if residents’ taxes go up with restoration. He will also look at the control people have
on their houses, and, in St. Malo, which has been restored. “In St. Malo I’ve a better chance to talk
to businessmen to see what kind of effects this has on business,” Thorp said. He will spend one month studying
English systems of restoration, five months in Chartres and St. Malo, and three months touring throughout Europe studying the techniques
used. He hopes to determine if the Europeans are using better methods than the United States.

Taylor will study the distribution and ecology of the plant genus Coriaria, a shrub found in Southern France, sections of
eastern Asia, New Zealand, and a small part of South America. “My primary interest is the phenomenon of the disjunct
distribution of plants, which is when a genus is found in little places here and there, not all over the
world,” he said. “I am interested in the general ideas of ecology and plant distribution and, through this genus, I
want to learn something about ecology and distribution,” Taylor continued. Most of his work will be done in field areas
looking at dominant and recessive plants and specifically this genus. He plans to investigate the surrounding plants to determine if
Coriaria grows with the same plants wherever the genus is found.

Taylor will visit the Kew Herbarium in England before beginning his field study to look at specimens of Coriaria other
people have found. He will start his field work in France. “I have a rough idea of going to these
areas one after another but I think I will spend more time in New Zealand. I also want to go
to both the southern and northern hemispheres so when it is winter in one it will be summer in the
other and I won’t have to spend a lot of time indoors,” said Taylor.

The film involves the audience so that they share in the elation over the breakthrough represented by each phone call.
We get a very authentic sense of Woodward’s fear for his own personal safety as he first walks, then jogs,
then runs desperately down a dark street after a meeting with “Deep Throat.” Robert Wolfe’s editing paces the film well,
especially in the scene of the Watergate burglary. The Washington we see through the camerawork of Gordon Willis is often
oppressive and foreboding. One particularly effective overhead shot shows Woodward and Bernstein dwarfed against the gigantic expanse of the Library
of Congress.

The performances are, for the most part, beautifully understated. The film centers, of course, around Woodward and Bernstein, and Robert
Redford and Dustin Hoffman portray them well. With each of his movies, Redford develops a more and more effective acting
style suitable for the characters he plays. He definitely has one of the better senses of comic timing among the
American leading actors in film today (and there are funny moments in this film). Hoffman’s performance as Bernstein is notable
as for once his character isn’t swallowed up by his unique acting style. He alters his style to fit Bernstein
instead of vice versa.

Jack Warden is effective as Harry Rosenfeld, “Woodstein’s” most ardent supporter in the early going, and Jason Robards is equally
good as executive editor Ben Bradlee, who first belittles Watergate and then puts his paper on the line in support
of the story. Although he perhaps overdoes “Deep Throat’s” neurotic and paranoid nature, Hal Holbrook’s performance is nonetheless fascinating, and
Robert Walden is good in a small role as the mixed-up, confused Donald Segretti.

Perhaps some sticklers for realism will charge that All the President’s Men is over-dramatic. But, despite its Hollywood sheen, it
avoids glamorizing the Woodward-Bernstein story. These are not faultless “ace” reporters; they make mistakes, and sometimes engage in “dirty tricks”
which rival those of their quarry. Hollywood's Washington Post is not Katherine Graham’s Washington Post. Yet once one accepts the
fact that reality will unavoidably be altered when seen through the lens of a commercial movie camera, All the President's
Men must be counted as a superior achievement.
