Vol. LXV, No. TWIXTY
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
December 3, 1976

-Ben Simms

LACK OF FUNDS forces government to shut down post office. Postal Service cutbacks to affect Davidson branch

Students will return from Christmas vacation to find the Davidson post office shut down for an indefinite period of time.
Local officials are reluctant to comment on the closing, but one post office worker was willing to talk. "It will
really hurt to no longer be able to serve the community, but there is nothing we can do. The word
from Washington is to close up the first of the year."

This action is similar to other closings of small town post offices across the nation. All of the shut-downs are
part of a new money-saving program to be put into effect by the Postmaster General. This reporter’s source at the
Davidson post office stated, "As we understand it, it came down to a choice between closing small post offices or
increasing postal rates. The Postmaster General’s office apparently decided that people would rather pay less for stamps than have convenient
service."

The official memo from the Postmaster General’s office concerning the shut-downs states that small town residents whose service is discontinued
will have to pick up their mail at the post office in the largest city in their county. For Davidson
residents, this means that they will have to go into Charlotte for their mail. Town officials are attempting to arrange
to have Davidson mail dropped off at the Mooresville post office, but since Mooresville is in Iredell County, such an
arrangement is unlikely. College officials are hopeful that student mail can be picked up in bulk in Charlotte and delivered
to students at the college.

College changes PE policy.
By RUSTY LINDSEY

The Davidson physical education department has proposed a plan whereby students will be charged for their P.E. courses. The plan,
approved by College President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr. Wednesday, would go into effect at the start of spring term,
pending the approval of the Davidson Trustees at their meeting early last week. "Although the Trustees must approve the plan
for bureaucratic reasons, I see no problem in the proposal passing, because the Trustees usually act on my recommendations," said
Spencer.

Under the proposed plan, students will be charged a maximum of $15 for "courses requiring expensive equipment or courses taking
place outside the immediate Davidson campus." This would include such courses as ice skating, mountaineering, and bowling (plus lane fee
and shoe rental). "Courses requiring neither college-owned equipment nor instruction" will require a minimum payment of $5. This would include
such courses as jogging or bicycling. All other courses would assess students a $10 fee. To avoid paying the fee,
a student may pass the proficiency requirement offered at the start of the term. "We couldn’t charge for that," said
one department official; "it doesn’t take much work to give one of those."

In any event, theoretically this plan could cost a Davidson student a minimum of $25, and perhaps as much as
$75 to pass his P.E. requirement. The justification for the fee according to President Spencer is that the students have
not been responsible when it comes to the use of the gym and the college’s equipment and instructors. He cited
as an example, "when a strong male student slams a volleyball into an instructor’s head. We need the money for
possible hospital costs."

"I really don’t care one way or the other," Spencer said, "I already passed my P.E. requirements. Tee hee."

The Davidsonian interviewed some of the faculty of the P.E. department but did not get very far. "I’d rather not
comment on the subject," replied Tom Couch, "It’s really out of my jurisdiction. You probably ought to talk to Emil
Parker." Parker commented from inside his car, "Look, I’ve been gone all week, and I really don’t know what’s going
on. Why don’t you talk to Chip Stone. It was his idea anyway."a central location on campus. President Spencer commented,
“This shut-down is a surprise, but we will try to cope the best we can. If we are able to
transport student mail to Davidson each day, then we will have a daily mail call in my front yard each
morning at 7:30. It would be very easy for someone to abuse this arrangement, so the policy will be that
each student can pick up only his own mail. In order to cover expenses, each student will have to pay
a slight fee for each piece of mail he or she receives. We will need student volunteers to drive into
Charlotte each night to pick up the next day’s mail. Anyone wishing to serve the college in this fashion should
leave their name with my assistant Peter Clark.”

Negotiations are now under way between Director of Housing Scotty Nicholls and town officials concerning the use of the vacated
post office building. [see P.O., page 2]

THESE STUDENTS face $5 jogging fee under new P.E. policy.
-Leon Venable

Kelton appointed Academic V-P

Acting on the suggestion of College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., the Board of Trustees appointed Professor of Psychology John
D. Kelton as Academic Vice President at Davidson. Kelton will assume the position as of January 1, 1977.

“We selected Dr. Kelton over a number of well-qualified applicants because he’s a good old Davidson boy and knows the
students inside out. After all, he’s been teaching psychology here for 17 years,” said Spencer.

Kelton was first offered the position in September, but informed Spencer of his decision only Wednesday. “It’s taken me so
long to decide to accept President Spencer’s offer because I had a hard time deciding between staying here or going
to Williams,” Kelton said.

According to Professor of Psychology W. Gatewood Workman, Spencer and Kelton have been building a closer relationship over the past
year. “Last fall President Spencer visited Kelton’s office regularly every Tuesday afternoon,” said Workman. “Then early last spring, I think—that’s
strange, Kelton was first considered for the position last March—I noticed the two passing manilla envelopes back and forth several
times a week. Yeah, last spring, a little before John (Kelton) got his new car.”

Kelton confirmed Workman’s statement, saying, “Yes, I have been counseling Dr. Spencer for the past year. I’m offering my services
as an alternative to Ava.”

Kelton has planned several revisions in the Davidson curriculum, including reviving mandatory chapel every morning at 10 am and mandatory
ROTC every afternoon. “Back when I was a student here everybody, I mean everybody, attended chapel. If you didn’t you
were campused. Chapel is good for students in this age of increased atheism and disrespect for the church, and besides,
since the post office is closing, what else will the students do at 10 every day?” he said.

“I’m also reinstating a dress code besides that you must wear a shirt to class. The men will wear coats
and ties—none of these loud things, now—and the women must wear dark skirts with hemlines two inches below the knee
and white blouses.

“I wanted to order uniforms for the students, but haven’t decided exactly what I want yet,” he continued.

Students will have an enforced curfew of 10 pm weekdays and midnight on weekends, with a lights-out rule one hour
after that. “I’m having hidden cameras installed in random dormitory rooms to ensure this ruling,” he said. “Not every room
will have a camera, but I will be the only person who knows which rooms do.”

Kelton also plans revisions of faculty policy, especially for faculty meetings. A strong believer in the value of encounter groups,
he plans to abolish the meetings and to replace them with encounters at his home.

“Encounter groups should not be larger than 15 members so I’ll divide the faculty into different groups that meet once
a month each. Then once a term we'll have a marathon session over a weekend, with white rat barbeque for
the food,” he said.
