April 30, 1976

Studs prepare run for our money
By MARK POSTOVE
Staff Writer

“We have set a really aggressive goal for this year,” senior Bill Cole remarked, “and we have the studs to make it.” The goal is 260 miles; the event is a 24-hour relay to raise money for the Bushiangala Secondary School in Kenya, East Africa. The runners plan to secure pledges by students and businesses for the mileage completed.

At 2 pm on Friday, May 7, Davidson’s third 24-hour relay will begin. This is a continuous relay in which ten men alternate running one-mile intervals for 24 hours. The 260-mile distance would break the North Carolina State record of 254 miles set here last May by a group of Davidson students. In addition, it would place this year’s group into the all-time top 100 relay teams, according to statistics published by the April 1976 issue of Runner’s World magazine.

All proceeds from the relay will go to the Bushiangala School. This school was started by the local Africans after Great Britain granted Kenya their independence in 1963, using only resources from the local community, without any outside assistance. The present enrollment is approximately 300 students. Four Davidson students have taught there (Bob Clayton, Mike Ramsey, Crawford Crenshaw, and Jeff Castelli), and three more plan to be there next year (George Reedy, Lynn Satherlie, and Coty Pinckney—he is on the relay team!). At this time the school has three major needs: textbooks for the teachers and students, laboratory equipment, and a new dormitory. Since the school is locally controlled, all funds can go directly to fulfill these needs with no government interference.

“The relay team has chosen to raise funds for this school for two reasons,” said one of the runners. “First and foremost is the record of the people of Bushiangala, which shows their desire to develop their community. Secondly, Davidson College has a direct connection with them through the students who have worked and who plan to work there.”

Davidson’s first 24-hour relay was run in the spring of 1973, with 237 miles covered. No relay was run in 1974 due to...

Raitt concert rates in gut-grabbing
By CATHY LANDIS
Features Editor

Vivacious is a good adjective, but not good enough. Gutsy is close but foxy is better. Maybe the only adjective to describe her is her name. Bonnie Raitt. Raitt gave the Winston-Salem audience Saturday, April 17, a concert they won’t soon forget. She sang the blues.

Raitt accompanies herself on the guitar and unlike many singers has some knowledge of the instrument. She plays at her best on the slide guitar when the wail of the strings complements the lilt in her voice. The combination grabs the gut.

Saturday night the drummer lacked the finesse worthy of a Raitt best. At one point, Raitt herself took her guitar and mockingly hit him over the head. The guitar player seemed as loose. The pianist, however, made up for his partners with a sharply sensitive accompaniment and a few solo licks. The bass guitar player gave an equally professional performance.

The audience loved Raitt as much as she seemed to enjoy playing for them. They applauded both at the beginnings of some key selections as well as the end. I think they were just enthusiastic. The audience’s reaction was refreshing; Raitt does not claim a wide following.

Raitt, who has been singing professionally for eight years, claims five record albums to her name. She comes from an entertainment family; her father is John Raitt of Broadway fame. A life-long friend of the blues, Raitt dropped out of college to sing them.

Livingston Taylor warmed up the audience. Unfortunately known more for his famous brother James, than for any musical reputation of his own, Livingston could hold his own in any competition with...his brother. The folksy style of Taylor provided an appropriate contrast to Raitt. Taylor began on the guitar, switched to the piano, and ended on the banjo; he handled each admirably, but seemed most at home on the guitar. He seemed to enjoy his work; the audience loved him. Winston-Salem is not the usual place to celebrate Spring Frolics at Davidson, but Davidson did not have Bonnie Raitt. It was good to get out of Davidson, refreshing to hear a performer give her all, and revitalizing to hear the blues. Bonnie Raitt knocked us out.

Seven of the members of the original team returned in 1975 to record 254 miles, which still stands as a state record. Runner’s World reports that this mark was the 36th best distance out of over 250 relays that were run in 1975. The collegiate record of 285 miles, held by California Polytechnic, and the world record of 297 miles, held by the Edinburgh Athletic Club of Scotland, were both set in 1974. Half of the members of the 1976 team are 24-hour relay veterans. Senior Bill Cole will attempt his fifth relay, while staff members Mark Connors, senior Mark Postove, and junior Coty Pinckney each have run twice previously. Sophomore Zack Murrell ran last year for the first time. New members include cross country and track standouts Fred Borch, Doug Horn, Ed Anderson, and John Barksdale. All members of the team have expressed their desire for support from the students. “Last year, support was good,” remarked Cole. “People were out at 2 am pacing us, which was a big help. This year we hope the support will be even better, and we encourage everyone to come out and run a few laps with us.” Students can make their pledges at designated tables on campus next week, or by contacting Crawford Crenshaw (Sentelle 108) at 892-7788. A pledge table will be manned during the relay for additional contributions.

Sunday, May 2, 1976
2 pm Rugby: Belmont Abbey Belmont, N.C.
7 pm American Bridge League Morrison Room
8 pm Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room
8 pm Phi Society Meeting Phi Hall

Monday, May 3, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries

Tuesday, May 4, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room

Friday, April 30, 1976
10 am Corrections Seminar Large Conf. Room
2 pm Seminar on Russian History 900 Room
7 pm Worship Service DCPC
8:15 pm Organ Recital: Lewis Deaton DCPC

Saturday, May 1, 1976
8:30 am History Comprehensives C310, 316, 318, 325, 334
8:30 am English Comprehensives C305, 307, 308
10 am Southern Conference Track Championships Track, Gym
11 am Spring Convocation Love Auditorium
12:30 pm Luncheon Richardson Plaza
3:30 pm Chess Club Meeting Large Conference Room
4 pm Coffee honoring Dr. George Abernathy 900 Room
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: “Shampoo” (R) Love Auditorium
TBA Entertainment: Guy and Pipp Gillette 900 Room
7 pm NC PIRG Large Conference Room
8 pm Phi Beta Kappa Oration: Gordon Tallock, Univ. Professor at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State Univ. “The Economics of Crime”

Thursday, May 6, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
10 am ROTC Blood Drive Banquet Hall
2 pm Corrections Seminar Large Conf. Room
7:30 pm YM/YWCA Discussion Group Small Conf. Room
9 pm Trustees meet with Students Morrison Room