October 8, 1976

Park takes aim at library logistics

By JAMES ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

“I’m very paternalistic about the library,” admits Dr. Leland M. Park, director of the E. H. Little Library. This admitted
paternalism is complemented by an eagerness to discuss any aspect of the college library.

“Traditionally, the library here has followed the academic trend of the college. Up until the late fifties or early sixties,
Davidson was a primarily textbook college and consequently, the library did not have its current depth, emphasizing instead outside reading
and the classics.”

Park is quick to emphasize that library development has not been a crash program. He explains, “I believe that the
best method of development is to establish a constant rate of material acquisition and staff growth. ‘Crash’ programs which buy
up all the collections in sight in the hope that they will contain something useful usually have an adverse effect
in the long run.”

The most readily apparent aspect of the enriched library program is the new E. H. Little Building. Park, who was
instrumental in the planning of the interior, is understandably proud. “I think we’ve got a real bang-up facility here, in
terms of the architectural quality of the structure and because the nature of it enhances the services we can offer.
This facility tailors to the needs of the academic community more closely than any other library I’ve been exposed to.
In planning a new library, it’s important to consult staff members about what it should offer, rather than bringing in
outside consultants. We made a point of including our staff in the planning and their advice has paid off.”

The three-story structure houses 222,500 volumes, 48,000 government documents, and 1,530 periodicals with room provided for future growth. Also available
are modern microfilm machines and a seating capacity for 650 students. But the new structure was primarily designed with one
thing in mind—the student. “The librarian’s offices are positioned where they are and surrounded with glass so they will be
accessible,” according to Park. “If a student can easily look into one of these offices and establish eye contact with
the librarian, then he feels more comfortable about going on in and asking for assistance. We want the student to
feel that he is welcome in any of our offices at any time and that he is not intruding on
our privacy.”

The development of the new facility went hand in hand with the development of the library staff. “I really wish
all of this staff had been here when I was a student,” Park confides. “The library is much more of
a two-way street now in terms of what it has to offer to the students and the efforts we take
to make the student body aware of what we offer. The reference potential of the library has been greatly expanded
through the efforts of Dr. Beaty, who also frequently visits classes to provide information on potential research sources. This is
one example of how we’re trying to be available to the students.”

The acquisition of volumes and periodicals is of extreme importance in any library, but at Davidson, the decisions about what
will be purchased lie with each academic department. The Faculty Library Committee, headed by Dr. Malcolm Lester of the History
Department and including a student member, allots a portion of the library budget to each department which is then responsible
for the selection of any books and periodicals which deal with that department’s subject area. In addition to this, some
volumes are purchased as the result of student requests which are readily welcomed by the staff.

“One solution would be to reduce the number of periodical subscriptions, but we prefer not to do this since it
would create a gap in our collection of bound periodicals which we might not be able to replace at a
later date,” he said.

The library also receives a varying number of donations each year, the past year having been a good one in
that 1,816 volumes were received, about 800 of which were from the Horton Estate. In addition, professors sometimes donate books
that they feel the library should have. Park’s policy on donations is quite strict. “Let me emphasize that all donations
are not accepted. I will not fill our collection with junk. All potential donations are screened by members of the
appropriate department to ascertain whether they would benefit our library. If they are not kept, they are returned to the
donor or passed on to another library.”

When donations are accepted, the library never offers anEstimation of the value of the donation, so as not to jeopardize
the library’s status. In addition to acquisitions and donations, several new books are provided each year through endowed book funds.
Such a fund consists of a money donation which is placed in the bank so that each year the interest
can be used to purchase a new volume. The library’s microfilm collection consists mainly of back issues of newspapers including
complete runs of seven major papers. A few periodicals are on microfilm, but the emphasis is towards microfilming only newspapers
for reasons of convenience. Park explains, “Quite simply, it’s more convenient to work with a bound periodical than a microfilm
copy and easier to work with a newspaper on microfilm than bound editions of newspapers, so we emphasize newspapers in
our microfilm collection.” This orientation is somewhat hindered by the fact that it is often impossible to obtain back issues
of periodicals except on microfilm and many periodicals require the purchase of microfilm with a current subscription. The quality of
services provided is increased by the spirit of cooperation that exists between libraries. Dr. Park elaborates, “There are many examples
of such cooperation. If we have duplicate volumes or ones we don’t want, we can place them on lists which
are circulated throughout the country and the world. Books are passed back and forth between libraries as a result of
this listing.” Another form of inter-library cooperation which is a real benefit for the Davidson library is the computer hook-up
that is shared with twenty other libraries throughout the state. It originates at the Ohio College Library Center and each
unit was financed by the North Carolina State Library. “This hook-up is of inestimable value to us,” Dr. Park confides.
“It used to be that each catalog card had to have our information hand typed onto it. Now we can
punch in the necessary information through our terminal. This system makes the inter-library loan process much speedier since we can
find out through the computer what libraries have what volumes. The computer is also used extensively by the acquisition department.”
A library inventory was not conducted last year so the number of stolen volumes is not known. While a number
were undoubtedly stolen, Dr. Park feels that thefts will decrease as students become aware that virtually any volume in the
library is available for use outside the library provided that the student checks with a staff member. Dr. Park’s foremost
goal for the library is similar to the library’s entire orientation—being student-oriented. “I would like each Davidson graduate to feel
that a library is something that he simply can’t live without, something that the liberally educated person really needs. They
should know that libraries have things to offer that are not necessarily curriculum-oriented. For example, the seventy-two newspapers we receive
are not academically necessary, but provide a source of enjoyment for students. The library should also be viewed as a
place to have fun, to meet people and get together with friends. For this reason, I don’t really worry about
the noise level since I feel that the students will develop the atmosphere which they find most academically conducive.”

Dawsons pick and sing
By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

Performing this Friday and Saturday nights in the 900 Room of the College Union will be the brothers Ed and
Bob Dawson, known professionally as the Dawson Boys and featuring music in the “easy rock pickin’ and singin’” mode. In
the past few years, the brothers have been playing the coffeehouse circuit off and on and have opened concerts for
Harry Chapin and Leo Kottke. They currently have an album out, entitled “These Summer Nights,” which features such backup artists
as Eric Weisburg on banjo and Geoff Gutchen on piano. The two are originally from Chester, S.C., and Ed is
a Davidson graduate currently in grad school at South Carolina; he also writes most of the songs. They have performed
professionally at Davidson a number of times but this will be their first appearance in the 900 Room. According to
Union Director C. Shaw Smith, “Our budget cut has only allowed us to have special acts in the 900 Room:
this is one of those special acts. They are a very, very good act. The last time they were here
they filled Chamber Banquet Hall and played until 2:30 or 3:00 in the morning.” The duo will do two sets
Friday night, at 9:30 and 10:30 pm, and sets at 9:00, 10:00, and 11:00 pm on Saturday night. Admission is
free with ID.
