February 20, 1976

The Davidsonian

Listening room concept suffocating

By RICHARD BOYCE
Editorial Page Editor

It had been a week no worse than usual, characteristically non-superfluous in those so-called “redeeming” qualities. Yet, the weekend was
here. It was time for a break. Time to relax. Time, even, for a beer. Where to? The college union?
The 900 Room?

Rows of neatly arranged chairs. I.D.’s and varying admission fees. Quietly whispering couples. A monitor strolls silently, gently waving his
finger and shushing. Someone coughs. It circulates. Why? “We are creating an intimate atmosphere.”

The 900 Room of the college Union is perhaps the most impressively disappointing addition Davidson has acquired in recent years.
It has succeeded in becoming the site of some of the most acoustically perfect concerts Davidson has ever experienced. It
has failed miserably in becoming the site of a form of entertainment much more urgently needed by the college “community;”
namely, informal gatherings.

Near the heart of this failure lies a theory known affectionately to insiders as “the listening room concept.” Its adherents
profess the need for student cooperation in creating an atmosphere conducive to professional performances and critical listening. Such a concept
is, of itself, undoubtedly justifiable. The college does have a responsibility to protect the supposed “professional,” no matter how bad,
from excessive audience abuse. It is indeed a bad situation when a hired piano player must stop his performance because
he can’t hear his music.

However, one must stop and sincerely ask if this type of performance is what the college truly needs. An occasional
concert, solely for listening, can certainly be both a pleasant and a worthwhile experience. Yet a problem arises when such
performances dominate the agenda. Whether such activities are “better” than other forms is purely a matter of judgment. Once one
recognizes that judgments vary, one must recognize that so too must activities.

The 900 Room may occasionally serve to increase our “cultural sophistication,” but it must just as assuredly serve as a
diversion from such “high-browish” activity. One of the most successful 900 Room events this year has been the Thursday night
Disco dances. The listening value of such “happenings” assuredly ranges from minuscule to zilch. Yet, the fact remains that people
come and people enjoy themselves. Such “tastes,” no matter how superficially “vulgar,” should not be ignored.

This Saturday night, some unidentified professors plan to throw aside their academic robes and roles to lead the inexperienced in
an evening of drinking songs. Hallelujah! Perhaps we’re on the way. The Union cannot, and perhaps should not, serve as
a Hattie’s substitute. But there is a need for spontaneity, for informality, for just plain relaxibility, that begs to be
met.

What the 900 Room lacks is not so much talent as atmosphere. Its major deficit is not money, but creativity.
The 900 Room has failed to become a gathering place for students because it has shunned such a simple role
as unworthy. Within the student body itself lies sufficient talent for entertainment. The stage inside offers possibilities for drama as
well as music. What’s wrong with a few performers who thrive on a lively audience? What’s wrong, one might ask,
with a lively audience which thrives on itself?

Davidson needs a center for informal gatherings infinitely more than it needs more professional performances. Davidson needs groups of chairs
around tables much more than it needs neatly spaced rows. Davidson needs a place where people can talk, can argue,
yes, can even yell, much more than a place to sit quiet and listen.

One can claim that other facilities would serve such needs more effectively than the 900 Room. One can point out
that the weeknights, in general, are left “open” for such informality. But such arguments essentially skirt the issue. The listening
performances have failed to draw crowds sufficient to justify either their expenses or their weekend slots. Such circumstances demand not
escalation, but change.

The true problem with a theory such as “the listening room concept” is that it comes to dominate one’s psychology.
It tends to become the rule rather than the exception. It is, admittedly, grossly unfair to disregard the improvements that
the new Union has made on the old. But, it is just as wrong to ignore the tremendous increase in
potential. Yes, it is important that this potential be used to improve the technical excellence of performers. But, it is
much more important that this potential be used to improve the social outlets of an admittedly unresponsive and apathetic, but
equally needy, student body.

Letters to the Editor

A few tips: shooting bull or balls

To the Editor:

After watching the Wildcats on T.V. against Notre Dame I have these few suggestions: Tom Dore should not get discouraged,
he is going to be good. He has a nice touch, good moves on his hook, and he rebounds well.
He...fouled out early but when he was in there Dantley and others did not drive. The announcers were for N.D.
but they said that Dore played well and that he switched off well to help other players on defense. Rixey
and Hickert are good and a front line of these three would be awesome. Dore should play in the middle
in the 2-3 zone with more pressure from the guards. Powell and Gerdy should put more pressure on and make
it “tougher” on the other team’s guards to drive. Dantley had been the only player to have scored 20 or
more points in a game for N.D., but Williamson (a guard) put in over 20 against Davidson. Maybe Lively should
play and put on a full court press, just playing defense while the rest of the team scores enough points
to win. As soon as the freshmen get more playing time and more experience they will be good. The guards
should drive more, and it seems that Jorgenson might be a good driver. Gerdy is a good shot and if
he drove the defender would have to play off him more so that he could use his jumper. The front
line plays well, you need to get more play from the backcourt. Davidson got hurt with the guard or forward
quick releasing and N.D. getting an easy lay-up. If this happens again the man that shoots for Davidson should go
back to his defensive basket and play defense. I hope the team does not lose its spirit because if you
can get a defensive guard in there, Davidson will win.

Mark Read
Covington
Atlanta, Georgia

To the Editor:

From faraway France let me add a loud “Amen” to Tony Abbott’s plea to students “to make time for writing.”
And I want to put down on paper some thoughts that raced through my mind as I read Tony’s article.
First of all, there should always be a writing group in every college, and that means Davidson because we are
all interested in the thoughts written down by students, staff, and faculty. Secondly, writing is a lonely job, which explains
in part why I did not do more of it at your age. If you are trying to write, it
is good to mingle with others who are trying to do the same thing. Furthermore, as Tony pointed out, it
is hard to teach writing, but it can be helpful and stimulating to hear someone else’s effort in a group
situation. I would only hope that any criticism given would be done gently, compassionately, and honestly. Thirdly, in spite of
the efforts of The Davidsonian to add some pages of creative writing between the reporting of news, it would seem
to me that a revival of Miscellany to its high level of certain years in the past is absolutely necessary.
To achieve this, I believe that the group must be encouraged to enlarge itself by giving it a name. Why
not call it Sigma Upsilon in honor of that defunct national that played an important part in getting students to
write? (Perhaps Sigma Upsilon is still sponsoring the Miscellany, but I cannot wander down the halls of Chambers to put
that simple question to Charlie Cornwell, or to Charlie Lloyd, or to Gabe Winkler). And, have that “fraternity” meet regularly
in different locations—not just faculty homes—i.e., one of the empty rooms in the new Union, or on the terrace when
spring comes around again, or upstairs at Peregrine House. When I was at Hampden-Sydney College after World War II, I
could not believe my ears as I listened to an ex-G.I. read some of his poetry. It was that good.
I also remember a premedical student who read two short stories that I would have been proud to sign my
name to. Before I end my plea for a revitalized writing group, let us not overlook two other segments of
our college community: 1) the non-teaching staff, and 2) the people in town who are not attached to the college.
There may be many hidden manuscripts just waiting to be heard. Who knows Emil Parker well enough to be sure
that he is not writing a combination Gothic-Sports novel with a thinly disguised Lefty Driesell as the chief protagonist? Or,
a mad scientist who will rival Frankenstein’s creator in dreaming up horrors; but is outwardly an innocent-looking photographer just like
Buck Lawrimore? But enough of these conjectures. Readers, pick up your pens, because you want that business report twenty years
from now to sound like good, clear English. And, I must start up again. Like Snoopy, the writing beagle, I
need a beginning: “Once upon a time...”

Francis Ghigo
Professor Emeritus of French
3, rue du Professor Emile Forgue
34000 Montpellier, France

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
