April 9, 1976

the davidsonian

Baraka heads black week, Harper says cash lacking

By SAMUEL CRAWFORD
Staff Writer

A speech and readings by author Imamu Amiri Baraka on Monday night opened Black Week, 1976.

President of the Black Student Coalition, Derry Harper, pointed out the need for a week of activities that is oriented towards a black audience.

“Davidson is an isolated institution,” said Harper. “Black students have a heightened problem in adjusting, especially if they come from a predominantly black background.

“Having this week gives us a chance to come into contact with other black students and allows us to invite performers and speakers to the campus that might not come otherwise,” he said.

Traditionally the Black Student’s Coalition has had an annual festival centered around “expressions in black,” but this year the diversity of activities sponsored has been increased to include events that range from an address by Marxist-Leninist poet Baraka to the Gospel Night held Thursday.

Although the Coalition is interested in providing diversions throughout the year, it is restricted by a severe lack of funds, according to Harper. For Black Week, the Coalition had to pool some eight thousand dollars drawn from over ten sources.

Twenty-five of the thirty black students on campus provided “needed help” in the planning and coordination of events for this week. Among these were Darlene Cunningham, Pat Hudson, Joann Mitchel, and Harper.

Harper summed up the purpose of the events in an address introducing Baraka, saying, “it is our hope that the activities we will present this week will reflect our feelings of pride in the uniqueness, the richness, and the diversity of the black experience.

“Finally, and of the utmost importance, we hope that by sharing with the entire community several expressions of black culture, we can have further understanding between the races,” he said.

SGA protests calendar

By ED REES
Staff Writer

John Munce addressed the Senate Wednesday night as an advocate for the incorporation of student media. (Incorporation would establish the media as independent of the jurisdiction of the Davidson College administration).

He listed as a major reason for incorporation that “we have had violations of the media in the past,” and asked, “why leave ourselves open? Incorporation would separate us from the legal entity of the college, and therefore release the college from legal responsibility for what was printed.”

In other action, the Senate approved four persons to the Advisory Council on Campus Life, two to the Council on Psychological Counseling, and one to the Library Council.

Benita Franklin, Mark Rabil, Andy McKelwey, and Dave Patton were appointed to Campus Life posts, Tricia Drake and Dave Rainey to the Council on Counseling, and Holmes Harden filled the lone slot on the Library Council.

Later, John Guthrie presented the SIR course evaluation results from Fall Term to the Senate.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL

Saturday Special
April 10, 1976
Spaghetti
Tossed Salad
Cracker

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR

THURS. 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00

(25¢ DRAFT)

[Continued from page 1]

years.

He said that the committee has indicated that there will be opportunities for student consultation in planning these calendars.

Article IV, B, 1, vi of the new Faculty by-laws charges the FEC with, among other things, “determining after consultation with the S.G.A. Senate the academic calendar for the ensuing years.” These

SGA President Baskin presents a student petition protesting next year’s academic calendar.

Students ask calendar change

By-laws are not in effect now, but are slated to become official with the implementation of the college constitution.

Professor of Psychology John D. Kelton, a member of the FEC who attended the gathering, had no comment for publication on the gathering or the petition, save a jesting “where’s the crowd?”

Students attending the gathering said that they came out of interest in changing the calendar.

“I came because I want to see the calendar changed. Also, I think it’s time students started getting interested in the actions of the Faculty Executive Committee and the E.P.C. (Educational Policy Committee),” said Stephen M. Peeples.

“I came because I want the calendar changed and to see what Spencer’s reaction would be,” said Dan Thorp.

NO INTEREST College Payment Management

Making your college payments simpler, more organized and interest-free is what EFI-FM is all about. And because we do it better than anyone else—we're number one in the field. EFI-FM makes it possible for you to spread your school costs over up to 12 months ... with NO INTEREST CHARGES. There are no credit requirements. A simple application and $20 participation fee covers everything. If it sounds “too good to be true” ... we urge you to get all the details first. It doesn't take a math major to see the money-saving advantages of our program! For information mail this coupon today.

EFI-FUND

EFI-Fund Management
3200 Prudential Plaza, Chicago IL 60601

Show me the advantages of your program, I'm all for saving money!

Name
Address
City State
Zip
College
Dept.