Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

_The Davidsonian_ Vol. LXVI, No. NINE Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036 November 12, 1976 - Robert Trawick

WITHOUT A vice-president in charge of finances, the college budget is now controlled primarily by President Spencer.

President heads hierarchy controlling purse strings

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

A hierarchy of administrative offices controls the budget of Davidson College. Heading those who direct the money flow is the
Office of the President. This system operates in a method contrary to the Self-Study Report of 1974. Although different administrators
and the Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel and Development, composed of six faculty members and three students advise Spencer, “the
vote on the budget, in all bluntness, is the President,” according to Academic Vice-President, Frontis Johnston.

According to the Davidson College Self-Study Report for the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, in October, 1974, the Academic
Vice-

Senate cements procedure outlining board selection

By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

This week the SGA Senate adopted its procedure for selecting student representatives for the media board. A committee, co-chaired by
sophomores Percy Badham and Hans Watford, presented their proposals to the Senate last week. The Media Board, to be composed
of students, faculty, administrators, and members of the college community, will oversee all student media, including _The Davidsonian_, _Quips and
Cranks_, _The Miscellany_, _The Wildcat Handbook_, and WDAV. The SGA will have at least three representatives chosen by the Senate
on the board. Representatives from the media will select one student member to be the media representative. The other two
will be chosen by the Senate from a list of eight names that have gone through a screening process.

The SGA President will appoint a five-member screening committee, one member of which will be an editor-in-chief, or the equivalent.
This committee will solicit nominations from the media, the administration, and the student body for students to serve on the
Media Board. From this pool of names, the committee will select eight to be presented to the Senate, which will
then select two. “This screening committee will be the real workhorse of this whole operation,” commented Co-chairman Watford.

Under normal conditions, two representatives from each medium, including each editor-in-chief or the equivalent, shall meet to select the media
representative on the board. No editor-in-chief or the equivalent will be allowed to serve on the Media Board because of
possible conflict of interest. If a media board member should be elected, he would be required to give up his
seat on the board. For the first Media Board, however, Matthew Covington, editor of _The Davidsonian_, will be the media
representative. “This first Media Board will be exceedingly important in that it will set up the Media Board By-Laws,” explained
Watford. “_The Davidsonian_ will probably be the publication most affected by the board, and it was felt that [see COVINGTON,
page 2]

Zoning ordinance amended, passed

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Davidson’s Town Council has officially adopted an amended version of the zoning code outlined in the October 22 issue of
_The Davidsonian_. The code, drawn up by a separate planning commission, divides the town into residential, industrial, and commercial segments.
Of the amendments included in the final draft, two pertained directly to the college. The first states that college residence
halls must be within 200 feet of College A land (college-owned land containing administration buildings, classrooms, and faculty living quarters);
the other rules that buildings on CollegeB land (campus areas with housing and operational structures) cannot be closer than 100
feet from the nearest adjoining property line. Another amendment states that mobile homes can only be on R-7 land, property
which exists in theory but not on the map. According to Dr. Annamarie Burts, planning commission member, "For all practical
purposes, mobile homes are out in Davidson." She cited the upkeep required by mobile homes as the main reason for
this ordinance. Other amendments to the code include one which permits apartments above business establishments and another which requires parks
and other such recreational facilities and buildings to have a special-use permit. Copies of the code plus an attached sheet
of amendments are available in E.H. Little Library, the Public Library, and Town Hall. An edition of the code as
amended and passed will be available soon, according to Burts.

The President and the VPFD (Vice President for Finance and Development) control the actual formulation of the budget to be
presented to the President, thus serving as a bridge between the rest of the College personnel and the President. Davidson
no longer has a VPFD; there is no one in charge of finance. The College has only a Vice-President for
Development. The four officers of finance formerly directly under the VPFD, the Comptroller, Business Manager, Director of the Physical Plant,
and Director of Personnel and Administrative Services now report directly to the President.

"The Southern Association Report, the committee that was here, recommended someone to head up these four offices," said Johnston. "Dr.
Spencer does not want to bring one in—it would be hard to pick one of these four, and Dr. Spencer
does not feel it is necessary to bring in someone from the outside." Under the present system, the four finance
officers are "also active in the budget-making process," according to Johnston.

The Academic Vice President controls the finances for faculty salaries, departmental budgets, the library, the registrar’s office, the athletic department,
the laboratories, audio-visuals, and other budgets. "Most of these make up tentative budgets and send them through me," said Johnston.

Although the Academic Vice President is theoretically responsible for the Dean of Students and Admissions offices, these report directly to
the President, according to Johnston. "Departmental budgets are not generally large," said Johnston, but the budget is determined by the
needs of the department. Science budgets include finances for laboratories, and so are considerably larger than others. The budget has
remained relatively constant in the last several years; only the appropriation for the library and faculty salaries have been raised
to any degree, according to Johnston. "We do not ever do the salaries until the rest of the budget is
set," he said. Salaries have been raised about six percent each year in the past two years, but "this was
not an across-the-board thing," he said.

Budget formulation involves an eight-step process according to the Self-Study Report. Forms showing the previous year’s expenditure and the current
year’s budget are prepared by the Comptroller and given to the Academic Vice President and the four finance officers. These
administrators review the statements and distribute them to the departmental chairmen. The chairmen take budget requests, after being given a
maximum expansion factor. [see BUDGET, page 3]

Robert Trawick

North Main House, as well as other similar student housing facilities, will have to be readjusted as to use and
capacity.
