September 24, 1976

Letters to the Editor

EPC cut stifles curricular flexibility

To the Editor:

I write this letter as an angry and, perhaps, uninformed student. Angry because I fear an educational program essential to
Davidson’s academic vitality—i.e. extended studies—is about to get the axe. Uninformed because all I know is what I’ve read. I
have not consulted any of the alleged “axers”—the members of the Educational Policy Committee—about the expected execution. Perhaps, the EPC
does not plan to kill the program at all. Or perhaps the committee has concocted a brilliant educational innovation which
will fully replace the victim. If so, my words are wasted. If not, they aren’t.

IN CASE you don’t know... Having made this caveat, let me make my case. Davidson College must offer its students
the curricular flexibility which Extended Studies provides. Davidson competes with colleges and universities large enough to offer majors and courses
which small liberal arts colleges cannot afford to provide. Geology, anthropology, pathology, and a plethora of other “-ologies” immediately come
to mind. So do a handful of mildly important languages—Russian, for example—and a host of non-Western subjects. Now no school
of 1300 can fill all these gaps with majors or even courses, but such a school can create an apparatus
for individual students to pursue intellectual interests which supersede course listings. Hence, Extended Studies.

Three criticisms are made of the Extended Studies program. The first is that the students involved in Extended Studies “get
away with murder,” that the work they perform is “shabby.” Unfortunately, this accusation is, to some extent, true. Many students
use Extended Studies for academic credit and little else. These students enter into Extended Studies contracts which would not challenge
the average “dim wit.” But, the crucial weakness of this argument is that contracts, including those of the Extended Studies
sort, require the consent of more than one party. In other words, “it takes two to tango.” No student can
undertake an Extended Studies project without the approval of a Davidson College professor. When Extended Studies work is “shabby,” our
problem is not Extended Studies but unambitious students and negligent and/or unconcerned professors. The chemistry of such a student-professor relationship
produces similar work in the...

Irv Wilson

...the proposed pay-as-you-go policy regarding athletic equipment

So long DC, hello Purdue

To the Editor:

This is to inform you that I will not be returning to Davidson College to continue my education or to
compete in intercollegiate athletics. Upon reading a copy of College Football Preview and other such magazines, and not seeing my
name mentioned in any manner in your plans for this year’s football squad, I have decided to save you the
embarrassment of being a “Body” on the varsity squad, where apparently I am no longer needed, although I started in
more than half of last year’s games. I feel that I was not considered as a starter at the end
of spring practice because, with your encouragement, I was wrestling as the Heavyweight on the Varsity Wrestling Team. I now
realize why upperclassmen choose not to participate in Davidson football.

At the end of the scholastic year, I was minus an area requirement in religion: I submitted a petition to
the Course Curriculum Requirements Committee for an extension of that requirement into my junior year. I was denied this extension
and told I would have to make up this course in either summer school or through a $400.00 Independent Study
Program offered through Davidson College. I received word of this denial the last day of registration at any summer school
I might possibly attend. Although Purdue University accepted me as a summer student and I completed a course in Philosophy
(in which I received an “A”), I feel that Davidson’s emphasis was on the $400.00 rather than my problems in
attending summer school. This also was a factor in my decision to transfer to Purdue University.

As the summer progressed, I have evaluated my options and have come to the conclusion that, if I am not
needed in the football program, I should go where I can afford the education and make the best grades. Financially
and academically, I feel that Purdue University is an excellent choice. All in all, I feel that I have not
been treated fairly in either the scholastic or intercollegiate disciplines, and I know that I will have a better chance
at career choice attending Purdue. In conclusion, as much as I have enjoyed attending Davidson College, I feel that circumstances
have forced me to transfer to Purdue University where I have been accepted.

Thank you for any past considerations.

Jack N. Summe ’78
Warsaw, Indianaregular classroom. The second criticism leveled at Extended Studies is that professors engaging in Extended Studies are overburdened. Now
perhaps I have been talking with the wrong professors, but it is my understanding that most professors can competently handle
one or two Extended Studies projects in addition to their regular course load. Extended Studies projects become a burden only
when well-intentioned professors exceed their limit. The danger is overextension, not Extended Studies. The third criticism aimed at Extended Studies
is that the program costs too much. However, when I consider that the vast curricular flexibility made available through Extended
Studies costs only $2500 annually, the program seems to me to be a bargain. What effect, then, would the discontinuation
of Extended Studies have on Davidson? Well, unambitious students would likely still gravitate toward negligent professors, but would produce their
“shabby” work in the classroom. Thoughtful professors would not be confronted with the cruel choice of whether to sign yet
another Extended Studies project. Davidson would save $2500. On the other hand, the infinite potential of Davidson’s curriculum would instantly
become stiflingly finite. Pretty good trade-off, huh?

Bo Baskin ’77
SGA President, Davidson College

Otey’s ‘ROTC option’

To the Editor:

It was brought to my attention last week that all members of the class of 1980 received prior to their
arrival in Davidson a letter from a College Administrator urging them and their parents to “give serious consideration to the
ROTC option.” In that letter the presence of the military at this liberal arts, church-related institution was justified in the
following paragraph: “Davidson supports ROTC because it believes that during these times all young men and women should have as
many options as possible open to them during the college years. It also believes that officers educated in the liberal
arts are of vital importance to the armed services and to the principle of civilian control within the military.”

While I am familiar with these arguments and others given for ROTC (such as the scholarships to students which take
a burden from the College's own financial aid programs), and while I am appreciative of the numerous contributions made to
the campus and community and to my own life by our ROTC personnel and their families, I hope freshmen and
other students will choose options other than ROTC. Primarily, it seems to me that persons with religious and/or humanistic reverence
for life (see the College’s “Statement of Purpose”) need to devote every energy available to peace and to the abolition
of the root causes of armed conflict here and abroad. In this era when nuclear weapons and other technologies make
the notion of a limited war against other soldiers logically impossible, we need to do all we can to disengage
ourselves from the manacles of the arms race, which finally can end only in tragedy for the earth and for
its people. The need for a “peace movement” did not cease with the withdrawal of American troops from Vietnam. The
demands of the conscience in matters related to killing must not be overlooked, even when one is given a “free”
education by the military (at taxpayers’ expense), even when one is not faced with the urgency of having to decide
whether or not to participate in a particular war.

I submit that church-related, liberal arts colleges ought to be the backbone of the “peace movement,” indeed that this might
well be one of the unique missions of such institutions in an increasingly secular and pragmatic society. Some colleges have
established full-fledged peace studies curricula as part of their academic programs. The options I offer are simple—ones which have been
around for a long time and will continue to be so—even when/if the human race decides to “study war no
more.” They are summarized in the Sermon on the Mount and in Matthew 25, and also have been espoused by
such diverse persons as Tolstoi, Gandhi, Jane Addams, Bertrand Russell, Denise Levertov, Dick Gregory, and George Wald—to name but a
few. These options have to do with spending one’s life feeding the hungry, clothing the naked, sheltering the homeless, visiting
the sick and the imprisoned and the mournful, caring for children. In a word, these alternatives have to do with
love, which actively seeks the good and the well-being of the other, as opposed to war, which actively seeks the
destruction and the domination of the other.

Rush Otey
Minister to Students

P.S. I am not a Communist.

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
