December 17, 1976

Davidson shallow without athletics

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson College undoubtedly presents a unique atmosphere for both varsity and non-varsity sports. As a result, there is often a great deal of controversy surrounding the question of what sports mean to our academically-oriented college.

I’ve worked closely with all phases of Davidson’s sports for two years and have come to the conclusion that without its sports program, Davidson would be a shallow community indeed. True, a great deal of money is spent on football and basketball that could be spent on chemistry supplies or more books for E.H. Little Library. But isn’t Davidson’s level of academics already strong enough?

The type of individuals introduced to our college by the varsity programs as well as the atmosphere surrounding those programs add a great deal of needed depth to the school. For most of us, our careers after Davidson will not be solely concerned with academics, so why should Davidson limit itself to that particular area? Just as speakers and musicians add depth to our experience, so do varsity sports.

Because sports are so important we must support the work done by the coaches and the players. This is especially true now that football and basketball are involved in transition periods. Hopefully in the future both sports will be a focusing point for a great deal of school pride. But even if they don’t produce winning seasons we must not measure their worth in terms of games won. It sounds trite to say it, but the important point is participation—not success.

The low-key varsity sports such as field hockey, swimming, and wrestling are not very well-funded but contribute immensely to an enjoyable Davidson atmosphere. They allow many students who could not compete elsewhere to participate in sports they love while at the same time allowing for the intense academics. Possibly these sports are more important than either football or basketball.

Finally, Davidson could never be the type of place it now is without IMAC sports. Besides just providing an excellent vent for physical and academic frustrations, IMAC sports bring students together periodically. However, we must never let the competition blind us to the fact that intramurals are also one of the most effective means of meeting other people. If we would concentrate on exchanging names instead of menacing taunts during the games everyone involved would profit. Sports at Davidson offer a great deal to the total well-being of the college. I only hope that we don't lose sight of this fact and let athletics suffer in favor of the more scholastic pursuits.

-Irv Wilson

Filing deadline for dorm senator
Tuesday, Jan. 4, 1977

ETCETERA
121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

20% OFF ON ALL MEN’S JACKETS
LOWEST PRICES AROUND ON
LEVIS, MALE, FOR GUYS AND GALS

MERRY CHRISTMAS!
LET ETCETERA HELP YOU WITH YOUR
CHRISTMAS SHOPPING! WE WILL BE OPEN
WEDNESDAY 10 - 5 AND SUNDAY 1 - 5
UNTIL CHRISTMAS

Hours: 10 - 6 Mon., Tue., Thur., Sat. 10 - 7 Fri.

VILLAGE STORE
Brings You a World of Gifts

Brazilian tulipwood! Crafted into luxurious writing instruments for her. No clips mean they slip easily into a purse. Wood writing instruments designed especially for women—a unique gift idea!
$30.00 the set/$15.00 single

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
First Union National.

DAVIDSON