April 23, 1976

The Davidsonian

Student symposium to view national education problems

A bi-annual student symposium is being organized at Davidson College which will deal with specific national educational problems. Each symposium will bring together fifteen college students and fifteen college administrators from Southeastern states in a joint effort to review, evaluate, and submit feasible solutions to particular educational problems.

The symposium will attempt to provide solutions to a broad range of problems that generally interest individual students while also giving educators, businessmen, and government officials a profile of specific collegiate educational problems and their possible solutions. But the stress of the project is on allowing college students the opportunity to provide input into solving educational problems which are of vital interest to members of this peer group.

Two groups will be responsible for the project. Collegiate Publications, Inc., a non-profit corporation based in Lake City, Florida, will be responsible for acquiring and allocating the funds for the project and publicizing the results of each symposium. Collegiate Symposium, a student organization to be established at Davidson College, will organize and conduct each symposium.

-Davidson students recently participated in a clean-up project at the Ada Jenkins Community Center.

[Continued from page 1]

"Put to work the very first day organizing Fall Convocation and the Trustees’ October meeting,” said Clark. Spencer stressed that Clark’s appointment is a ten-month internship. “I don’t encourage people to stay on because I want someone close to the students. I do not believe the creation of a permanent job would serve this purpose,” he said. “Also, the law of diminishing returns operates on this job. There is a lot to learn the first year, but after that a person’s education could better be continued doing something else,” said Spencer.

“Dr. Spencer is right in choosing someone new each year for the job,” said Love. “It is valuable to change places from student to administrator. I can appreciate Davidson more after this year. But the second time around many of the duties would become routine and tedious,” he concluded.

“This job is purely temporary,” said Clark. “I hope to defer my acceptance of admission until September 1977 and enter law school then. I enjoy Davidson and the people here, and believe that without academic pressure I'll have more time to contribute to the school and take advantage of many of its opportunities,” he said.

The staff of Collegiate Symposium will also meet with the Education Committees of the U.S. Senate and the House of Representatives and other national educational organizations following each symposium to further the goal of producing positive action toward solving the educational problems discussed.

Students interested in working with Collegiate Symposium beginning in the fall term of 1976 should contact Tom Haygood, Duke 009; Dr. Julius Melton, 125A Chambers; or Dr. Hight, 05A Chambers, by May 3.

Bernhardt [Continued from page 1]

...which does not end at graduation. Bernhardt said that while students are at Davidson, many do not realize many of the benefits they receive. “Then, when they get out and the school needs their help...many say, "no, I don’t think so. not this year." “It’s really aggravating, because you know they have received so much more than they could possibly be asked to give back,” he said. Bernhardt said that during their four years at Davidson, William ©

CONVERSION OF THE OLD Carnegie Union into a guest house is scheduled for completion next month. He speaks of obligations with the state of Davidson’s many students who do not realize that their education is supported by alumni gifts. “When you are here, you don’t realize there are alumni out there, from people in their late 70s to people who graduated last year, who contribute to the college because they believe so strongly in the Davidson experience. When you get out, I think it’s your responsibility to take care of those people behind you, just like you were taken care of when you were here,” said Bernhardt.

Bernhardt noted a growing preoccupation among alumni.

Guest house due for May finishing
By BILL BARNES
News Editor ©

The renovation of the Carnegie building and its conversion into a college guest house will be completed by early May. The Carnegie building will function primarily as a guest house for visiting Trustees, Alumni, and friends of the college, indicated College Business Manager Robert A. Currie. The building’s basement, however, will continue to be used as a dormitory. The entire building will not be converted into a student living space in the near future.

The renovation has included building eight guest bedrooms in the Carnegie building, as well as bathrooms for each of these rooms, a modern kitchen, and complete repainting and recarpeting. The building has been waterproofed and the outside bricking has been cleaned in order to clean up its appearance. According to Currie, the building will not provide completely for guest housing at certain times during the year. It will be supplemented by the present VIP house and possibly by a motel built on college-owned property which borders on I-77. Currie indicates that no offers have been received for the land close to I-77, but he hopes to have a “first-class” motel there in the future. He said that this would alleviate any guest overflow considerably and forestall any difficulty guests might encounter finding motels in Statesville or Charlotte.

-Leon Venable

athletic programs. Many alumni, when asked to contribute, have responded only with contributions to the Wildcat Club, which is connected with athletic funding. “All they (the alumni) want to talk about is the basketball coach or the football program. And you say, ‘wouldn’t you like to make a contribution to the Annual Fund?’ ‘Heck no,’ they say, ‘all I want to contribute to is the Wildcat Club. My interest is athletics.’ It’s very frustrating, because I feel like they are being very narrow-minded,” said Bernhardt. “The school has got to be more important than the athletic program. It’s important, but not more important than any other part of the school. And athletics, in my mind, are less important than academics,” said Bernhardt.

Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Holiday Season Hours: 10-5:30, Mon.-Thurs. and Sat. 10-8:00 Friday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

PARAMOUNT D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
“GO! - FOR THE FURY, FORCE AND FUN OF IT!”
“ANGRY, TOUGH AND FULL OF STING!”
Admission-$1.00
-M. Love

AGENCY, INC.