Vol. LXV, No. TWENTY The Davidsonian Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036 March 26, 1976

Students eye co-education merit admission considered

By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

A newly appointed SGA committee, headed by Ruth Murphey, is evaluating coeducation at Davidson. The students tentatively plan to submit their report to the SGA on April 27 and to the Trustees in May.

The committee will base the study on three major criteria: Have the goals set by the original proposal to go coed been met? Is coeducation working at an optimum level? And would acceptance by merit be beneficial to Davidson?

“We hope to show that Davidson needs more women. Girls are afraid to take a step and shine out and I think that’s because they’re so small in number here,” said Murphey. “But we don’t want it to look like we are a group with a formed idea as a group; we hope to be as unbiased as possible,” she continued. “We don’t have a set idea; each member has their own ideas,” said Murphey.

The committee is following the same general procedures as those used by the committee that originally proposed coeducation according to Murphey. “They basically broke themselves down into eight groups, so we did the same thing,” she said.

Cathy Landis is heading the bibliography division, which is responsible for background research into coeducation. She is contacting the National Student Association and NOW to request publications on coeducational policy. Landis is also studying the Title IX requirements and how they apply to Davidson. “Cathy hopes to show that the women at Davidson need more women. She wants to compile the parts of her study and write an attitudinal summary,” said Murphey.

Babette Kissam will compare Davidson to other schools which have recently gone coeducational. She will also determine what kind of girls Davidson accepts or turns down in light of these schools. The original committee looked at Colgate, Dartmouth, Franklin and Marshall, Hamilton, Kenyon, Bowdoin, the University of the South at Sewanee, and Williams while developing the proposal, according to Murphey. “We are going to look back on these schools to see what they’ve done with their coeducation,” she said.

The questionnaire division will give students, faculty, and administration questionnaires at random that will contain questions from all divisions of the committee. Some questions will be follow-up to the original questionnaires, according to Murphey. Murphey stressed the importance of prompt, honest answers from those who receive questionnaires.

Allison Andrews will send the alumni different questionnaires. “It scares me when we’re mailing them out to the alumni,” said Murphey. “Who knows how many we'll get back.”

Anne Pelfrey is heading the publicity division and Crawford Crenshaw is heading the economic physical plant division.

[see GROUP, page 3]

ACADEMIA joins Athletic Eppa Rixey goes for two. -Leon Venable Pre-med

Basketball coach search nears end

By BILL BARNES
News Editor

The search for a new basketball coach is nearing completion, and plans for operationalizing an attempt at a return to national basketball prominence are underway. Director of Athletics, Thomas A. Cartmill, cited three qualities his department has been searching for in their hunt for a new head basketball coach. These include that he be an ex-head coach, that he have been associated with a winning program and have proven his ability, and that he be able to recruit. “I would like someone who has played the game in a competitive program, too,” said Cartmill. The new coach’s contract will probably run for three or four years, according to Cartmill. His funding will not be noticeablygreater than that accorded former head coach Bo Brickels. "Basically, the tools we work with are already on a nationally competitive scale," said Cartmill. "The college will not lessen its support of the program," he continued. "If additional funds are needed, however, [see SPENCER, page 4]

College explores grant for National
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. recently told the Davidson College Board of Visitors that the current Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition was "possibly the last." Monday he suggested that his words be changed to "probably the last."

"I say 'probably the last' because I would rather be pessimistic at this point than be optimistic and get people's hopes up about the continuation of the National," said Spencer.

Spencer suggests that there is a double priority involved with preserving the National. The competition needs money to fund itself but also needs space in which to be shown. Toward the fulfillment of these needs the college is actively seeking a foundation grant.

"We are currently in the process of going to a foundation, exploring in hopes of getting both money to build and money to continue the show. Some foundations say 'No bricks and mortar—just the program,' but we are trying for both," said Spencer.

Professor of Art and Director of the Davidson National Herb Jackson agrees with Spencer about the urgent need for facilities. "The problem with setting up the National every year is what to do with the funds you collect. We've always found some way to raise funds in the past—the problem has been facilities," he said.

If money can be found, according to Spencer, the National will be continued as per the suggestions. This would mean that an assistant would be hired to help put on the show. To avoid the possibility of not being able to run a continuous show, the college is seeking enough money to finance the National for three years. The National costs nearly $30,000 a year as it is now set up.

Jackson is rather certain that this is his last year of involvement with the National. The show catalogue for this year includes this paragraph:

"The Fifth Davidson National is my last as director. It has been a special privilege for me to see some of the most exciting graphic art in America come through this gallery and I am deeply grateful for the opportunity provided by the trust of so many willing participants. I will remember the support of my sponsors and the kind words from artists. Thank you for a great pleasure."

"It is important for me now to put the time and energy I expend on the National into my work. So as far as my involvement with the show is concerned I am finished," said Jackson.

Jackson estimates that anyone who might succeed him as director of the National would spend nearly 1000 hours a year on the show. Not all of these hours are regular, according to Jackson. Some are spent with the physical rigors of packing and unpacking the show while other days might be spent waiting for a telephone call.

"The job is very uneven, some days you might do nothing, other days you might spend 18 hours. How do you tell someone doing this kind of job that he is part-time?" asked Jackson. "It calls for someone with a philosophical commitment to get the work done, not just a commitment to a job. For anyone to do this job they would have to be damn dedicated," he said.

Jackson is unaware that the college is doing anything to raise funds for the National or to build an art facility. He said that the news of this being the last year of the National had shocked the art world. He admitted, [see NATIONAL, page 5]