March 26, 1976

The Davidsonian

Miscellany Editors Prepare Spring Issue, Plan ‘Special’

By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

Student and faculty readers are currently evaluating submissions for the spring issue of the Miscellany according to editors Mark Armstrong and Chip Crawford. The staff tentatively plans to have the magazine processed and to students by the first week in May.

“The spring issue will be a very good issue,” said Crawford, “but a very standard issue.” The magazine will have no graphics or photographs because these cost more and take more time according to him.

The staff has received submissions of 325 poems and approximately 30 short stories from Canada, California, New England, and the Carolinas. “We were pleased with the material we got from the students. We got a good deal of stuff,” said Crawford. “About 75 of the poems are from the students.”

Armstrong and Crawford changed printers this issue to save costs. They expect the appearance of the magazine and the quality of the printing to remain the same. The editors hope to use the extra money to publish a third issue of the Miscellany next year.

“We hope to put out some special issue to try to expand circulation and to increase interest,” Crawford said. “We'd try to come up with a special topic so we wouldn’t crowd the spring issue.”

Crawford and Armstrong feel the past Miscellanys have handled the manuscripts well but that the business has been handled in a very lax manner. “It’s been run like a southern plantation, in a very gentlemanly manner,” said Armstrong. They plan to set up the business relationship with the college in a more rigid manner and to find out exactly what they can and cannot do, according to Crawford.

“We hope to get the magazine more than regionally known,” said Armstrong. He said the best way to do this is to increase the number of subscribers and submissions. The editors are considering advertising in other literary magazines if the cost is not too restrictive.

“We looked at the list of Miscellanys we sent out and we’re going to expand and modify it,” said Crawford. “There have been a lot of overlooked places.”

“I think we didn’t expand our advertising enough on campus. That’s our biggest weakness,” said Armstrong. “It went by word of mouth pretty well, but we do need to expand the ads. You’d have to go looking for the announcements, but they’re all over Chambers and the library,” he said.

“We’ve been pretty lucky in having a steady influx of money,” he said. “The problem with most small magazines is that they die after eight issues.”

“Our prize money is comparatively high. We award $150 for the first place poem and short story and $50 for the second place,” Armstrong continued. “With our grant from the Arts Council we can give a payment for everything published -- $2 per poem and $4 per short story. It’s kind of a gesture, but we think it’s a step in the right direction.”

“We’re just trying to get the magazine out on time and to get the manuscripts back on time because that increases submissions,” said Crawford. “We plan to keep manuscripts about five weeks after the deadline,” said Armstrong. “But we have problems in the fall because there will be stuff in the box that’s been there all summer.”

Peter Francis Clark
William A. Cole, Jr.
Horace Rainsford Drew, III
Martin Daniel Eakes
Michael Faulkner Eubanks
Douglas William Ey, Jr.
Mark Robert Firth
Ernest Henry Glenn
Robert William Hoag
Andrew Theodore Lamas
William Allen Link
David RobertLittle Jonathan Beck Monroe
David Lafar Moore, Jr.
Phi Beta Kappa 1976
Basil Otto Yost, III
Pope Lloyd Moseley
Banks Ashly Peacock
Jeffrey Neil Plowman
Mark Herbert Postove
Joseph Raphael Rohrer
Kenneth Edwin Schmader
Rand Washburn Sommer
Charles Richard Stewart
Cosby Swanson, III
Joel Randall Tew
Daniel Barrett Thorp
Richard Clair Williams, Jr.
Bryan Hadley Wilson
Andrew Chung-Lap Wong

YMCA intends symposiums, festival
By DANA BEACH
Staff Writer

The Davidson College YM/YWCA is instituting a number of programs in order to “initiate interaction between faculty and students and members of the Davidson community to develop new relationships,” according to YM/YWCA president John R. McArthur.

The YM/YWCA goals, said McArthur, “are to make it easier for individuals to understand, learn from, and enjoy one another.”

According to McArthur, YM/YWCA members have complained of a general lack of programming and unity among the organization’s various groups. In reaction to these criticisms, McArthur is attempting to consolidate and expand existing programs and augment these with new ones.

YM/YWCA symposiums have been intensified this year. Topics for future symposiums include “Political Aspects of Compromise,” “The Church in Society,” and “Third World Hunger.”

In an attempt to extend social life, the YM/YWCA is planning a spring celebration on April 2 that will include a skateboard competition, tricycle races, and kite flying. A band will perform in the quadrangle. McArthur expressed enthusiasm over growing interest in the Tuesday Depot Lunches. “Attendance last year averaged between ten and twelve,” said McArthur, “while this year’s attendance has increased to twenty-five or thirty.”

McArthur feels that “the Y must place its emphasis on the individual. The Y can take the initiative in its functions and role in the community by providing programs stressing individual interaction,” said McArthur.

Group checks discrimination
[Continued from page 1]

“Crawford took his division and divided it into five separate parts: infirmary, laundry, dorms, sports, and security,” said Murphey. “He’s looking at these in terms of what were some of the goals and should we meet them.”

Laurie Dunn is working with the educational aspect of coeducation. “(The original committee) made some predictions as to what the educational aspects of the coeds would be. Laurie will be determining the concentration of majors and comparison of women vs. men grade-wise,” said Murphey.

Dan Thorp is talking with freshmen and a representative of each house on Patterson Court to determine the social aspects of coeducation. He will concentrate on the number of women in extracurricular activities according to Murphey. “A lot of that is attitudinal,” she said.

“Davidson has never evaluated coeducation at all. There has never been a formal study done by the students to evaluate it and that’s why I think Bo (SGA President Bo Baskin) wants it done,” said Murphey. “We’ve had some of the first girls here. I think we can do an unbiased job,” she continued. “We’re soliciting opinions and suggestions from anybody we can.”

“Women who don’t admit they have been discriminated against are blind. I’m so opinionated, but I know it. That’s why I’m not on any of the divisions,” Murphey said. “But that’s not the opinion of this committee. I think the people who are doing the evaluation are very honest and if they don’t find what they wanted to find they’ll tell the truth.”

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

contemporary men... with classic flair
IZOD SPORTSWEAR

See the new shipments of IZOD knit shirts: 100% Cotton Chemise LaCoste, Polyester/Cotton Chemise, New Mesh Knits, and New Crew Necks.

Mooresville