November 12, 1976

the davidsonian

Committee eyes problems,
proposes viable solutions

By JIM ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

Since the beginning of fall term, the SGA Evaluation Committee has been examining various aspects of the college program.

Co-chairmen Mark Rabil and Andy McElwee feel that the purpose of their committee is to get a general view of as many areas of the college as possible and to then develop recommendations to deal with these areas. In order to accomplish this task, the committee has been meeting once a week with an administration member to look at a different area in depth.

Rabil commented, “We’re not an action group, but rather we’re taking a look at these different areas in order to find out what’s going on. Our general interest is the quality of student life and we hope to make some suggestions for programs that will really look to the future.”

The result of the Evaluation Committee’s research will be a report of recommendations. This report will be completed in January and presented to SGA President Bo Baskin and to the Trustees.

Some of the academic recommendations will center around the need for a permanent Vice-President for Academic Affairs, the possibility of eventually establishing an Eastern Humanities program and extending the drop/add period for half the term for first term freshmen.

The committee has also been discussing possible improvements for the infirmary, the establishment of language houses and the critical overcrowding situation in the Patterson Court eating houses.

McElwee emphasized that the members of the administration who have come to the weekly meeting have been extremely co-operative which has enabled the group to have frank discussions of college problems.

“When Ken Wood spoke with us, we had a very good discussion on the possibilities of reorienting the academic program away from being strictly classroom and putting more emphasis on experiential learning situations where students can apply what they have learned in the classroom. We also discussed the idea of requiring each student to spend at least one term away from Davidson during their four years.”

Both Rabil and McElwee are optimistic that their committee’s work will serve as a basis for dynamic new programs which will enhance the program that the college offers to the student body. However, in the course of their investigations, some of what they have discovered has not been a source of optimism.

McElwee commented: “Everything here comes down to inadequate funds and planning. Sometimes it seems that there is no vision for everything that this college could be.”

MARK RABIL and the SGA Evaluation Committee meet with Dr. Spencer to discuss college problems and their solutions.

-Robert Trawick

..budget reviewed

[Continued from page 1]
The departmental budgets are based on the department’s expenditures during the previous year.

These budget requests are then reviewed by the President, the Academic Vice President, and the Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel and Development. “(The Council) is advisory only, it does not make the budget,” said Johnston.

An open meeting is then held to allow members of the college community to express opinions on budget needs or requests.

The Academic Vice President and the four finance officers make line-item recommendations to the President, who in turn makes the final line-item determination for submission to the Trustees.

Big Discounts!
Save up to $3.00!

Records

Top artists!
Major labels!

Many, many selections in this special purchase.