April 9, 1976

SPECIAL THANKS to Bill Rolland, Terry Hummel, and Russ Kushigian.

Harris lets loose vulnerable voice

By DUFF BRUCE

I had been eager for the chance to see Emmylou Harris for some time. I bought her first album on the strength of her fine backup work with Gram Parsons on his two solo albums of a few years back. Her record had a steady build on the charts because it appealed to country music fans as well as soft rockers.

Her second effort, "Elite Hotel," has been out a couple of months and it is a continuation of her proven format: honky tonk country rock, wistful ballads, and a carefully thought-out Beatles' pop standard.

The only problem with the record for me is its flawless production. It is a trifle too slick. I have never really understood why so many "country" records have mixed strings in on tracks that already have a pedal steel part (witness Charlie Rich’s evolution into the Barry White of country) which lends a song melodic sentimentality.

I had a feeling that a live performance would have enough of a roughness to it to compensate for recorded sameness, and seldom have my expectations been as fulfilled. Accompanied by hard-core and recent Emmylou converts, Cathy Landis, Steve Peeples, Skip Smoak, I ventured to Ovens Auditorium and was treated to one of the best concerts I have seen in two or three years.

Harris was backed by a six-man contingent most of whom have played on her records. They were tight, enthusiastic, and it was obvious they had a strong rapport with Emmylou as well as the music they played. Worthy of special praise were Albert Lee on lead electric guitar and Hank DeVito on pedal steel and dobro.

The numbers performed were culled mainly from the second LP. On tunes such as "Jumbalaya" and "Bluebird Wine," Harris showed off her strong, full vocal style that is high and sweet but capable of a Loretta Lynn sort of growl with an edge you could set a bottle on. The softer numbers such as Gram Parsons' "Grievous Angel" and McCartney’s "Here, There and Everywhere" were also rendered most effectively.

Her voice is not as rich as Ronstadt’s but her phrasing, to my ears, is better, and the way she lets her breath run out over the last few words of a line makes for as touching and vulnerable a style as can be found in contemporary music.

One of the highlights was a spirited version of Dolly Parton’s standard, "Queen of the Silver Dollar," which saw DeVito’s pedal steel open with a fuzz tone-induced fiddle sound and end with an incredible prolonged whine that reminded one of a dentist’s drill at the far end of a tunnel.

Harris was open and friendly before an amiable crowd; a pleasant contrast to Ronstadt’s shyness and Joni Mitchell’s performing aloofness. She rocked while she strummed her acoustic guitar during the instrumental breaks which provided a contagious enthusiasm to the audience and band.

Steve Goodman opened the show with a fine set that displayed fine guitar work and the urban cowboy sensibilities associated with his close friend Jimmy Buffet. I look forward to buying a record of him soon.

I suggest you buy Emmylou’s albums. If you like them, you should get a couple by Gram Parsons and the early Burritos. This is a main source of Emmylou Harris’ tastes and emotions (performing and otherwise) and I don’t have enough space to list the other performers that have obviously been influenced by the same mix. I wish all of you could have seen the show, but at least you can get the music and wait for her to come back.