December 17, 1976

Campaign Propaganda

By BILL BARNETT
Editorial Page Editor

This week's student elections were a big success. Student interest in the elections was extremely high, and the large voter turnout was only one of the indications of student participation. Several offices which have in the past often been uncontested, such as the editorship of the Davidsonian, had extremely close races between well-qualified candidates.

However, the elections pointed out one terrible flaw in our election system—the College was inundated with paper. Almost every candidate for every office put up posters and handed out mimeographed propaganda. I know this to be true because I ran for an office, and it was a difficult task to even find any blank wall space. Even the toilet stalls in the dormitory bathrooms were packed with all sizes of campaign literature.

This vast campaign overkill is regrettable in many ways. First, there is a paper shortage of sorts in the United States today, and any conservationist would have been appalled at Davidson's blatant disregard of this.

Circus Leaves Town

Elections at Davidson resemble a circus: posters, pandemonium, and personalities. And students hardly take them more seriously than a circus. Certainly, this week’s elections were exciting. But the fervor of close and controversial campaigns stems from the personalities, not the issues. I heard more students arguing over whose signs were the best than we have discussions about the lack of an academic vice president or the peril facing Extended Studies.

But because name recognition determines most elections at Davidson, the candidates must comply. The enthusiasm of the candidates proves only we are good politicians; we now have to prove to be good leaders. We challenge ourselves and the rest of the winners of this week’s election to channel their celebrations into action. We challenge the student body to turn their excitement into service and concern.

Stop Sadler’s Sloth

The disgruntled criticisms from the student-tenants of Wilson Sadler bring to light a problem that has been too long ignored. Sadler is not guilty of any gross negligence, but his sloth in answering complaints and making repairs is well-known by a number of off-campus students.

Why does Sadler persist in ignoring students’ grievances? Perhaps he realizes that a Davidson student is too busy to worry over much about a broken window, a door that won’t open, a furnace that absorbs heating oil, etc. After the initial complaint, the student is not likely to occupy his afternoons chasing down his landlord, and before long, will learn to live with the inconvenience.

Perhaps Sadler knows that the College is short on housing. And because he runs the biggest house rental operation in town, he knows that any student who wants to live in a non-college house off-campus has little alternative other than to rent from him. Not a bad set-up, is it?

The students who rent from Sadler should join together and demand that he be more responsive to their grievances. To Wilson Sadler, we recommend that he make a New Year’s resolution to act the part of a conscientious landlord and stop using Davidson students unfairly.

Matthew Covington.......... Business Manager
Photography Editor.......... Cathy Landis & Dave Keller
Executive Editors.......... Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall
Sports Editors.......... Lyman Collins & Philip Duncan
Asst. News Editors.......... Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager.......... Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second classPostage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

The Davidsonian: and a little campus semi-crisis. Sure, the paper shortage is nowhere near critical levels, but if there isn't, you can't blame Davidson for not trying to make one. Not only do these campaigns waste paper, but they result in an eyesore for the whole campus. Unread handbills are strewn all over the place, and then someone has to go clean them up. And you can bet that the people who threw this trash on the grounds are not the ones who will pick it up. Instead, it will be the janitors and groundskeepers who already have enough to do.

The dilemma here is one very familiar to student candidates of all ages. If you can't use posters, how can you publicize your name and credentials? The answer is to allow a limited use of posters, and to encourage other, less costly means of campaigning. One set of guidelines to limit posters would be as follows: first, distinguish between posters and handbills. A poster would be any "advertisement" of any material above 1' by 1½'. A handbill would be anything of a smaller size than 1' by 1½'. Second, any candidate for elective office could put up or distribute one (1) poster for every fifty (50) people in his constituency, and he could put up or distribute one handbill for every two (2) students in his constituency.

If these regulations were adopted, candidates would have to use other methods to campaign. Perhaps an "open end" could be set up for all of the offices available. WDAV offered to air a short commercial free for any candidate who wanted one, but there were few takers this election. If there were poster regulations, a lot more people would take advantage of that offer next time. Poster regulations would place a premium on student ingenuity and creativity. Also, candidates would have to make more personal contact with the voters. The best result, though, would be that students could walk into their room without having to throw away all the mess which had been left under their door while they were out.

Elections bring new ideas, doubts, and fears by looking forward to a fresh start, injecting new blood into an already healthy student government. Regardless of election outcome and enthusiasm over the future, it is only fair that a few, long overdue comments be made about the outgoing Senate. For the first time in a long time, one can honestly say that this Senate has been in touch with the student body, and many dreams have become a reality. Rusk House will definitely be open next fall on Patterson Court; the Communications Program has proved extremely effective; the first successful course evaluation system has been established. The Baskin Administration has made many noteworthy accomplishments. But, as Bo Baskin noted at his final meeting Monday night, the 1976 Senate has merely laid the groundwork for future programs.