Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

GORDON MAYNARD barely misses intercepting his opponent’s pass, a common occurrence for the Booters as they dropped their last two matches 3-2 each.

the davidsonian

By MEGAN GALLAGHER
Staff Writer

The Women’s Field Hockey team played its final game of the season this week, finishing the year with a 4-1 record.

The women travelled to Winthrop Monday where they lost the only game of the season, 3-0.

Coach Susan Roberts attributes the loss to several factors.

“I think we were out-hustled by the Winthrop defense,” she said.

“They were very aggressive which put a real stress on the girls on the front line. We have played teams we could out-maneuver before and we really haven’t had any experience with such an effective attack. Our offense was having problems tackling back to get the ball and with passing away from Winthrop.”

“We have also had to play without our regular center forward, Bunny Horine, who has been out sick for the last few games. I think it was a real loss to carry on without her in such a demanding game,” concluded the coach.

Other games played by the women this season include decisive wins over both Salem and Furman.

The team travelled to Old Salem to oust the women’s college, 5-0. At home the next weekend they beat Furman in a morning game with a sturdy 7-1 score.

Earlier in the season they also beat Converse College, 1-0. High scorers in all three games include Martha MacGill, Beth Tanner, and Lisa Johnson. All three girls scored an average of twice in this season’s game.

Other front line players, Lynne Elliot, Belle Erdman, and Margie Robertson contributed points to the team’s success.

Roberts expressed her pleasure at the first-year success of the women’s field hockey team.

“I don’t think you could ask for more from these girls in their first season out against such established competition as Furman, Salem, and Wake Forest,” she said.

“I am very happy that we remained undefeated for so long and that we weren't even scored against until our fourth game. The defense was consistently good throughout the season and we will miss Hoover Becca Stimson from the lineup next year.”

“I also think the attack gained strength and effectiveness as the season progressed. I enjoyed working with the team and look forward to another good season next year,” she concluded.

The women will go to the Deep South Tournament at East Carolina University this weekend. The purpose of the tournament is to pick a team of the best regional players from the schools involved.

Roberts said she thought “several of Davidson's hockey players have a good chance of representing the college on the regional team.”

Cat Booters take two losses from Emory and N.C. State

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

The Davidson Soccer Team took two losses on the nose last week by identical scores of 3-2 to Emory and North Carolina State.

The Wildcats lost to Emory in overtime here at Davidson, and fought back to make it a close game against N.C. State at Raleigh.

The game against Emory was marred by rough play. Nine yellow cards were issued, six against Emory players, and two Emory players were given the red card, throwing them out of the game.

The rough play did not take away from the brilliant play of Dave Patton, scoring both Davidson’s goals. Pure effort put the first goal in, as Patton dribbled solo through five players and spun in a shot under the goalie from an impossible angle.

This gave Davidson a 1-0 lead at the half. Emory scored first in the second half, a floater over sliding keeper Doug Schuessler.

Patton retaliated with a powerful direct kick, skimming the top bar into the net. Davidson’s hopes were dashed on a pair of Emory corner kicks, one late in the game, tying the game, the other early in the first overtime, and Davidson could not compensate and suffered the bitter 3-2 loss.

At Raleigh Friday, N.C. State scored the first three goals—an obstacle Davidson could not overcome. The listless Wildcats came alive late in the game on a pair of goals by Dave Patton—the first a breakaway chipped over the sliding goalie, the second another solo effort, again spinning a shot from an impossible angle under the goalie.

But the Cats could not get the tying goal, and went down in defeat, 3-2.

The pair of losses lowered Davidson’s record to 3-9-1. The next game is Saturday here at Davidson at 11 am versus the University of Virginia, then finish the season against The Citadel next Tuesday.

PRE-HOLIDAY SALE!!

25% OFF ON MOST GIFTS ALL PLANTS HOLIDAY ITEMS

Good Music, Cozy Fire, Art by Herb Jackson Food & Drink

PEREGRINE HOUSE 892-8686

Friday, Nov. 8 & 10:30 pm

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: Love $1.00

---

