April 30, 1976

Wildcat hitters split year’s last games

MITCH STONE stretches for first in a recent baseball game (he was safe). 
-Pete Goodman

Small sports boast recruits, bring power, depth to Cats

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Football and basketball recruits usually capture the headlines, but this year Davidson’s smaller sports programs have yielded a large number of talented recruits. Swimming coach Pat Drake has taken the perennially passive swimming program and hopefully given it new life. Drake is fairly confident that around eight swimmers will have opted for Davidson by the May 1st deadline and feels that number may increase.

This is the first time Davidson has actively recruited swimming talent. Drake feels that the recruits will enable Davidson to field a more competitive team next season. “Some of the recruits will provide good depth and I’ve got about five more that are like Jonathon Washburn who holds several school records.”

Definitely coming next year is Mike Verwest from Fort Meyers, Florida, who is primarily a distance swimmer. His high school times in the 500, 1000, and 1650 yard events would all be Davidson school records. Also coming is Mark Tommerdahl, who excels in the Butterfly and Intermediate Medley events. In addition, his long-distance times are better than Verwest’s.

With next year’s influx of talent, Drake looks forward to a good season with more teams of Davidson’s calibre on the schedule. “We'll be unbelievably better and I would say that we'll be getting closer to VMI, Appalachian, The Citadel, and William and Mary.”

Davidson’s Southern Conference Championship tennis team loses only a single senior, John Mitchell, next year but will also lose the services of two sophomores and a junior. As a result, tennis coach Jeff Frank will need some good recruits for depth in 1977. Four players are definitely coming next year. Lard Castelein from Holland, Jeff Cyle of Princeton, New Jersey, Rick Johnson from New Canaan, Connecticut, and Jeff Flair from Chapel Hill, North Carolina will all be counted on heavily to fill the void.

Academic standards pose serious problems for coaches trying to bring talented athletes into Davidson. Also, the lack of scholarships weakens a coach’s bargaining position, and Frank feels that Davidson’s stand with the Southern Conference will determine his need for scholarships. “I think we need to see some scholarships given if we’re going to stay with the Southern Conference. But if we get out of the conference, I feel certain we can get by with the existing program.”

Chip Stone’s soccer program suffered a dismal season last fall, but the situation looks somewhat brighter with the recruiting of several potent offensive players. Stone has recruited several...All-League and All-State players from New York and New Jersey, Grey Weir and Barry Sathjen, both from Bronxville, N.Y., are an outstanding striker-goalie combination that played together in high school. Coach Stone feels that the incoming freshmen will help his team in a number of ways. “These guys all rate now with anyone on our team and they will push our starters a little harder. In addition, they will give the team greater depth,” he noted.

Piedmont Bank Master Charge cardholders are requested to give notice of your summer address. We need your summer address in order to communicate and/or send your re-issued MEMBER FDIC.

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

The Citadel then rallied for three runs to grab a 5-2 margin. In the final inning, the Davidson Wildcat baseball team finished its season 10-22 by whipping Guilford 13-10 and losing to conference opponent the Citadel 3-5. The Wildcat batters unloaded their artillery on Saturday as they shelled Guilford pitchers for 17 hits, four of which were home runs. Stan Brown led the way with two homers and four RBIs. Jim Kaulius and Jim Richards also had home runs. Joel Tew went the first six innings on the mound for the Cats but was replaced by Tim Barr who earned the victory in relief.

The team finished its season Monday night in Charleston against the Citadel but was unable to bring home a win. The game, however, was close as the Bulldogs needed a three-run rally in the sixth inning to pull ahead for their victory. The Wildcats went ahead 1-0 in the third inning on Ed Willingham’s solo homer. The Citadel then came back to take the lead 2-1 in the fourth. Brown’s fifth home run of the season in the top of the sixth knotted the count at 2-2. Brown tripled and Willingham singled to bring him home to make the final score 3-5. Barr, who pitched all nine innings, took the loss. Willingham, who has hit nearly .500 for the past twelve games, also had a double in the Citadel game that gave him a Davidson single-season record of eleven.

Coach Palmer Muench named the Wildcat’s slow start and the early season loss of pitcher Barr as two main factors that hampered the squad. “After the first eight games, we played close to .500 ball. But the real turning point was losing Tim Barr. We just didn’t have the stoppers with our pitchers. I am satisfied with the progress we made, however.” Next year, the Cats will have a strong nucleus around which they can build as the entire infield returns along with starting pitchers Barr, Ron Cannon, and Alan Alig. In addition, Muench indicated that recruiting “looked very good” so far with the possibility that three all-staters will be coming in to fill positions.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL
Golden Brown Onion Rings
Only 25¢ an Order
All Day Tuesday, May 4

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841