the davidsonian

September 17, 1976

8

‘Booters expect strong year, Stone credits solid defense

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

As the 1976 Davidson College soccer season approaches, Coach Chip Stone feels a combination of hard work, team unity, and concentration should bring the Wildcat soccer squad a successful season.

“We should be a stronger team despite the great losses to graduation,” said Stone. “We’ve got a good group of freshmen — adds a lot to the team. The upperclassmen really enjoy them.”

With co-captain Paul Parker, Dave Herrington, Joel Shirk, and freshman Kevin Robbins as backs, Stone feels the team will be better defensively. He also added that the team has “a whole crew of capable goalkeepers” such as last year’s starter, Bob Perz, and freshman Doug Schuessler.

Offensively, “It’s too early to tell, though Dave Patton should be strong as a striker. We will be depending on him a lot,” said Stone.

At midfield, Stone is high on D.C. Augustine and co-captain Gordon Maner. “They really work hard. They should be a real asset both offensively and defensively,” he said.

The Davidson soccer season begins September 15th against Guilford at Greensboro.

“Guilford is a very strong team,” said Stone. “They tied North Carolina 3-3 recently, North Carolina being about the toughest team we will play. We will have to play real well to win. It will take a real good effort on everyone’s part, with no mental lapses. If we do I think we will surprise a lot of people this year.”

Stone also mentioned a schedule change for the team’s first home game. The Wildcats will play the University of North Carolina at Charlotte on October 6.

The team has been practicing since September 1. Starting at 7 am they had three practices a day this summer running, ball handling, passing, juggling, and shooting, with Stone’s goal to have the team in the best shape possible.

The Wildcats participated in the High Point Classic pre-season tournament on September 10 and 11, and, although losing both games, the second a heart-breaking 2-1 loss in double overtime to High Point, it was a good tune-up and the team learned a lot from their mistakes.

Stone treated the games as scrimmages, and all the players got plenty of action.

Where is it? Davidson Ruggers fight for possession of the ball during season play last year.

Davidson’s towering center leaves Wildcats for Tigers

By MARK HESS
Staff Writer

Upperclassmen returning to campus have probably noticed the absence of one of Davidson’s more upstanding students. That student, 7’2” Tom Dore, has transferred to the University of Missouri to finish out his collegiate basketball career.

Dore, who averaged 8.4 points and 5.0 rebounds a game last season for the Wildcats, stated that an interest in playing closer to his Franklin Park, Ill. home was the main reason for the transfer.

“I think Tommy will be happier closer to home,” commented Coach Dave Pritchett. “He is very close to his family.” Pritchett also said the year of eligibility all transfer students lose would help Dore.

Pritchett said that Dore had inquired into the possibility of being red-shirted for his sophomore year. He had some confidence problems concerning his ability, and the pressure that would focus on him as Davidson strived to improve its faltering basketball program.

The chance to play close to home and also sit out a year sent Dore to Missouri.

Of course Pritchett was upset with losing the giant center, who was to be an integral part of the Wildcat’s future plans.

According to him the rumored friction between him and Dore did not exist.

He talked extensively with Tom this summer about the transfer and he understood Tom’s decision.

“The team has adjusted well to Tom’s leaving and I’m looking forward to the upcoming season,” said Pritchett.

“The Board of Trustees and President Spencer have made a strong commitment to putting Davidson basketball back into national prominence,” Pritchett said. “I am confident that this goal can be reached in the years to come.”

ENGLAND
HOLLAND

Visit Europe this week,
LA FROMAGERIE

Spend a few days in
FRANCE - Brie, Gourmandise with Kirsch
DENMARK - Mader, Cream Havarti
with side trips to
FINLAND

Come to

Cornelius, N.C.

NORWAY
GERMANY