February 20, 1976

the davidsonian

Tankers fall to Emory, forfeit diving events

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s swimming team closed out its regular season with a 15-point loss to Emory, forfeiting 16 points for lack of adequate diving facilities.

Davidson outscored Emory in the swimming events 48-47, but without the diving board that was removed earlier in the year, the Wildcats were forced to forfeit eight points in the diving events. Coach Pat Drake is hopeful that by next season Davidson will have a diving team again if not a diving board.

“Right now I’m trying to work out an arrangement for a pool in Statesville. That way our divers could have somewhere nearby to practice and could compete in all the away meets at least,” said Drake.

Jonathan Washburn broke his own record in the 200-yard Backstroke and picked up two other firsts in the 200-yard Intermediate Medley and the 200-yard Breast Stroke.

Mike Knowles and Marshal Brown added victories in the 500-yard Freestyle and 1000-yard Freestyle events, respectively. Brown also had two second-place finishes in the 200-yard Fly and the 500-yard Freestyle.

Davidson finished the season with a 4-8 record, one of its best in several years, and Drake is looking forward to an even better season next year.

“Next year we will lose only one swimmer and so far have had a very strong recruiting season. I’ve already got five excellent swimmers who have been accepted on early decision and there is a possibility we could get five more.”

Davidson will also change its regular swimming schedule in order to create a more even level of competition according to Drake.

“Next year we will swim more meets away to allow our divers to compete and we are dropping a few teams like Georgia Tech and VMI for teams we can reasonably compete with,” Drake said.

THE DEMON DEACONS left Davidson dribbling in the Southern Conference cellar.

Wake blasts Cats, Cagers in SC cellar

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats moved within one game of the school’s first 20-loss basketball season by being humiliated by Wake Forest, 104-72 last night.

The Wildcats were no competition for the home team Deacons, even though Wake went to the bench very early in the second half. The Deacon starters left with a near 30-point lead, allowing the subs to set the final margin.

Davidson was led by senior center Eppa Rixey, who tallied 17 points before fouling out. John Gerdy got only 14, two short of his season average. Tom Dore and Tom Verlin managed ten points apiece.

Davidson was coached in the non-conference game by assistants Jim Larranaga and Harry Krohn because of the absence of head coach Bo Brickels.

The Wake Forest loss was the Wildcats’ second of the week. Davidson lost their fourth straight Johnston gym game, 75-73 to league-leading William and Mary. For the Wildcats, it was their best effort in a while, but it was not quite enough.

The Wildcats came out looking like a totally different team from the one that had been victimized at Notre Dame the week before. Davidson actually staked nine-point leads twice in the first twenty minutes of play, but the Indians of William and Mary were not going to be left behind by the league’s last-place squad.

The visitors crept back to take a 38-34 halftime lead.

Behind the hot shooting of John Gerdy, the Wildcats came out roaring after the break to retake the lead 46-44, with 15:49 left in the contest. From then till the finish, neither team could manage more than a five-point advantage.

Davidson held onto a skimpy lead until Indian sub John Kratzer hit a short jumper with 4:44 remaining to give William and Mary a one-point edge, 66-65.

The Wildcats were never to lead again, although they tied it up in the final minutes, 71-71 on a Tom Dore turnaround. Last-minute free throws gave W&M the victory.

William and Mary was led by their two All-Conference candidates Jon Lowenhaupt and Ron Satterthwaite. Lowenhaupt had 25, while Satterthwaite netted 22. From the floor, the Indians hit a fabulous 62.8 percent.

John Gerdy was high for Davidson with 18. Tom Dore chipped in 14.

With one regular season game left, the Wildcats have a 5-19 record and are dead last in conference play, 1-8.

Davidson plays Furman Saturday at 8:00 pm in Charlotte.

GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION

Guide to more than 250,000 Scholarships and Financial Aid Source — items valued at over $500 million dollars.

Contains the most up-to-date information on:

Scholarships, grants, aids, fellowships, loans, work-study programs, cooperative education programs, and summer job opportunities; for study at colleges, vocational and technical schools, paraprofessional training, community or two-year colleges, graduate schools, and postgraduate study or research; funded on national, regional, and local levels by the federal government, states, cities, foundations, corporations, trade unions, professional associations, fraternal organizations, and minority organizations. Money is available for both average as well as excellent students, both with and without need.

BENNETT PUBLISHING CO.
Dept. 214, 102 Charles Street, Boston, Mass, 02114.

Please rush me ____ copies of GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION at $5.95 plus 50c for postage and handling for each copy.

I am enclosing $__________ (check or money order).

Name

Address

City

© Copyright 1976 Bennett Publishing Co.