October 1, 1976
By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Benny Goodman: The Famous Carnegie Hall Jazz Concert, Columbia Records, (CL 814-816), Vols. I, II, III.

Barry Ulanov, in his Handbook of Jazz (New York: Viking Press, 1959), states that "few bands swung as consistently as
Benny Goodman's in the late thirties and early forties, that few leaders did as much to find audiences for soloists
of a half-dozen different related schools; that few did as much to break down color lines in jazz; that few
have demonstrated so unmistakenly the classical nature of that refined Dixieland which is Swing."

On the night of January 16, 1938, in Carnegie Hall, Benny Goodman and his "Swing Orchestra" participated in what critics
have acclaimed as "one of the greatest triumphs ever registered by a swing band." The concert totally lives up to
the claim made by Ulanov, and jazz buffs are fortunately able to experience practically the entire concert, which was relayed
to CBS studios from a single overhead mike from Carnegie Hall. Not until the advent of 33⅓ rpm records did
Columbia Records release the recording, and the concert is now available in a three-album set. The quality is surprisingly good,
considering that recording technology was not particularly advanced in 1938, and that only one microphone was used.

The personnel Goodman had assembled prior to the concert were among the best available in the jazz world at that
time. And Goodman had definite ideas on how he wanted his band to sound. "First, I was interested only in
jazz—I wanted to create a tight, small band quality, and I wanted everyone of my boys to be a soloist.
The band had to have a driving beat, a rhythmic brass section, and a sax section that would be smooth
but with lots of punch. ...I didn’t just ask for good musicianship, I insisted upon it... Nothing less than perfection
would do: I lived that music and expected everyone else to live it too."

Goodman’s band, by 1938, contained such outstanding talents as Harry James on trumpet, Jess Stacey on piano, and Gene Krupa
on drums; the quartet included Teddy Wilson on piano and the incomparable Lionel Hampton on vibraphone.

The concert kicks off with Don’t Be That Way (Vol. I, Side One), written by Edgar Sampson. Goodman’s trademark of
rolling saxes, punching trumpets, and lively rhythm are very much in evidence, even though Goodman, perhaps a bit nervous, beat
off the tempo a trifle too slowly. The tune lags just a little until Gene Krupa’s raucous two and one-half
measure drum solo. The audience goes wild, and the band’s response is noticeable. They pick up the beat, and the
rideout is an exciting climax. The trumpets, punctuating the sax riff with short notes, go into mutes and turn the
volume way down before Krupa bursts out with another drum solo and leads the band out.

One O'Clock Jump, the great Count Basie standard, is next on the program, and Jess Stacey’s extended piano solo at
the outset is a tribute to the Count, standing in the wings on this night. Following is a tenor sax
solo by Babe Russin, then Vernon Brown on trombone, who swings magnificently with Krupa backing him up. Then Goodman takes
his turn, and his solo is one of the best of the evening. As B.G. plays his "happy-sounding blues," Stacey
fills in with the excellent background work that he has always been noted for. Harry James takes a brilliant stint
on trumpet, and then the famous Basie rideout begins, rolling along easily at first and then building in intensity and
drive. The saxes play the same riff figure over and over, as the trumpets and Krupa back them up. The
crowd cheers and claps when Goodman comes in, wailing high above the band to end the song.

Goodman features his quartet extensively throughout the concert, and with good reason, for by 1938 they were every bit as
popular as his big band. With Teddy Wilson on piano, Goodman on clarinet, Lionel Hampton on vibraphone, and Krupa on
drums, they provide good contrast to Goodman’s big band, and add an intimate air to the packed hall. Yet at
the same time, they perform with such spirit that it led Irving

Ice cream emporiums titillate
By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

No one knows the exact origins of ice cream; some have speculated, but its history seems indelibly obscured by the
years. Its popularity, however, has never been questioned, and it stands unchallenged as the classic treat worldwide. Perhaps nowhere can
more pleasure be found in such a small package, for ice cream cools the mouth, titillates the tongue (both by
taste and texture), and satisfies the sweet tooth looking for just a little something delightful. Its only drawback is its
caloric content (but if you’re worried about that then forget this article). Another, less obvious asset of this frigid confection
is its ability to draw out sociability in people—witnessThe transformation of a morose, bewildered group of students into a happy,
chuckling company when outfitted with individual ice cream cones. It is this last property of the sweet treat which prompts
this article, which is written in the hope that when someone utters a statement about the extreme uneventfulness of some
weekend evening, you, after having read this, can suggest, “Let’s go eat ice cream,” (or something like that). In our
locale, ice cream manifests itself in two ways: the soft, ready-serve variety and the hard “dip” species. As this reporter
considers the former mostly for emergency use, I will deal at greater length with the latter. Davidson students are extremely
lucky to live within thirty minutes of two establishments which make and serve their own ice cream: the first of
them, Spoon’s, is undoubtedly the best.

Spoon’s began in 1928 by a certain Mr. Spoon; his wife, who joined him four years later, now owns and
operates the place herself several years after Mr. Spoon’s death. She keeps 55 flavors (yes, 55) of ice cream, all
made right there in the back from fresh cream and fruit or whatever purchased right in Charlotte. The real beauty
of her set-up is that she allows almost unlimited sampling before a purchase, and a number of flavors are available
in half-gallons to take home. Mrs. Spoon loves Davidson students (especially the guys) and will chat all night if she
is not too busy. Her ice cream is absolutely tops, and the quaintness of her store adds to its appeal.
To get there, drive into Charlotte on I-77, getting off on the Coliseum exit to the right and heading for
Independence Boulevard. Turn right by the Krispy Kreme shop (a possible return stop), drive for two blocks and look for
a small, grocery-store-looking building on the right with a sign saying “Spoons.” She is open every day from 11 am
until 9 pm, except on Saturdays and Sundays when she opens at 12:30 pm and 3:30 pm, respectively.

The other “homemade” emporium is in Concord and is called the Cabarrus Creamery. The Creamery’s set-up is a bit more
commercial than Spoon’s, but the ice cream, though not full of Mrs. Spoon’s T.L.C., is still made in the back
and is still quite good. These folks have about 25 flavors of ice cream to offer, plus a wide assortment
of banana splits, huge sundaes, and the like. Their specialty, however, in most folks’ opinions, is their peanut butter milkshake,
a concoction which sounds revolting at first but which is, in this reporter's opinion, magnifique. Not too sweet, the shake
has a touch of...
