The Davidsonian
September 17, 1976

Davidson farms out Honor System and Freshmen Hall

Davidson College swallows hard this week. A bitter dose of compromise is not sweetened by cokes and coffee on Thursday mornings. The biggest, whitest, most pampered sacred cow of the college has been put out to pasture at least for a while. This cow is the Honor System and with it goes its mother, its protector, and its home, the freshman hall. Both the Honor System and the freshman hall concept were compromised this week. While the P.E. department issued a price list for athletic equipment it believes students have stolen in the past, freshmen are being housed off campus and in pockets on upperclass floors.

An honor system cannot be in effect in some places and suspended in others. If students have stolen P.E. equipment then these violators of the Honor System should be caught the next time they steal something. This would require a more accurate and complete system of security in the gym. This solution seems to be one the college cannot afford to enact but it is obviously more in line with the Honor System than is a solution where responsibility for items “bound to be stolen” falls to the students. The idea of shrugging Davidson's institutional shoulders at theft and passing the loss on to students is not only a compromise of values it is an act counterproductive to solving the problem. If the college admits that theft will occur because it cannot be stopped then potential thieves will accept the boon and have a field day. If the Honor System is not in effect in the gym it will have no effect in the gym.

Meanwhile, twelve freshmen are living off-campus in the Julia Johnson House and four freshmen are living on Second Little. These sixteen students are not having the same kind of experience that their 366 classmates get. It is a moot point whether the freshmen isolated off-campus or the freshmen without a true hall counselor are the worst off. The loser is Davidson College, whose backsliding is pointed up here in hopes that it will be noticed and changed.

Carter ticket seeks to de-throne King Henry

To the Editor:

Keeping in mind that we, each of us, are our only tax base, we can slowly adjust our tax structure to respect the personal sovereignty of each of us, provide for our common defense and general welfare, and encourage those of us with the most integrity and ability to lead spaceship earth to more light. Though we stood mute while his policy of tax, tax, spend, spend, elect, and elect was implemented by our Congress, even Harry Hopkins never dreamed that we would allow our national debt to be used to support those who consider themselves above our Constitution and the laws of our Republic. Fortunately, “WE THE PEOPLE” always grunt before it is too late. After we use our secret ballot to elect Jimmy Carter/Fritz Mondale, and to elect candidates with equal integrity and ability to our Congress, the imaginary throne King Henry occupies will be just another whisper on the wind.

Hugh D. Dudley
Fayetteville, N.C.

Irv Wilson ................. Editor
Susan Colan ............... Managing Editor
Richard Boyce ............. Business Manager
Bruce Holliday ............ Photography Editor
Arian Hall ................ Production Manager
Mary Landis ............... Editorial Page Editor
David Trader .............. Sports Editors
Rob Mitchell .............. Features Editors
Advertising Manager ...... Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Anti-self-selection vote belies SGA’s stupidity

By PEYTON MARSHALL
Staff Writer

Before the excitement and adventure of national conventions completely mesmerized my already summer-worn intellect, there passed a fleeting moment of thought. A startling empirical...The statement rushed into my head with the subtlety of a Penthouse centerfold, shattering beyond repair my expectations for the Great Society. The abrasive new postulate: Politicians Are Dumb. My only comfort: Davidson’s isolation from the grim world of political reality. But, when I returned to the ivory tower, the pungent aroma of suppressed memories began to destroy even my meager comfort. Politicians are not just dumb on the national level, but on the local and campus level as well. Indeed, the “leaders of tomorrow” today are showing a remarkable aptitude for stupidity. One well-hidden event of last spring lends significant support to my empirical generalization. The SGA Senate failed to reaffirm the principle of self-selection on Patterson Court. 

What does the principle mean? Self-selection implies that any member of the student body should be able to choose the eating house of his or her choice within the constraint of facilities. Social prejudices should not serve as criteria for the acceptance or rejection of students at eating houses. How did the Senate come to reject this norm? The rationale was a mystery, the motives unclear, but the events went something like this. 

Phil Caine, after many hours of interviews, study, and thought, submitted a report on the current overcrowding on Patterson Court, including possible short-term relief measures and long-term solutions. This thorough report was to be submitted to the Trustee Committee on Student Life as a recommendation by the SGA. The basic assertion of the report: If the principle of self-selection is to remain a viable guide to the Patterson Court System, then action must be taken very soon to relieve crowded conditions. This contention, as any pedestrian logician could discern, is simply a conditional statement: If A then B. 

When Phil completed his report, Carol Watkins made the logical motion: “that the SGA reaffirms the principle of self-selection and agrees with the report, recommending that if self-selection is to be preserved then action must be taken.” In essence, the motion said: A, If A then B. The hope was that the Trustees might see that B was the answer. Logical discourse is usually short-lived at a Senate meeting. Instantly, a motion passed calling for the Senate to vote separately on the two propositions: “A” and “If A then B.” The second passed overwhelmingly. The first failed by one vote. Thus, the Senate refused to reaffirm the principle of self-selection. The Senate’s decision was not, of course, automatically translated into college policy, but most apparently a spiritual blow was dealt to the self-selection system. 

In the context of the discussion, the decision made no sense. The Senate recommended a conditional statement instead of a complete argument. Instead of calling for action to be taken, the Senate called for an “if-then” statement to be accepted. But if you don’t like the “if,” the “then” doesn’t follow. The defensive Senator might reply, “We were only finding facts, not making value judgments. We leave the determination of the college’s norms to the Trustees.” Perhaps the decision does rest strictly with the Trustees, although I am sure that some faculty members would cringe at such a contention. But, it seems that if the SGA is intended to represent and communicate student views, it should pass on the values of students to other elements of the college community. What purpose, other than grad school applications, does the Senate serve? Thus, the only possible conclusion is that the SGA does not, or at least did not, believe in self-selection. 

It is difficult to assess whether students feel this way. My intuition tells me that the majority do not. Even if they did, however, a reassessment is called for. Why reject self-selection? The most common arguments are as follows. First, the system is imperfect. The abuses of the selection procedure, such as handing dry pens to undesirables, make the principle unattainable.