November 5, 1976

CLEVOT TUONO VFR

STUDENTS enjoy a Davidson fall...

Dead tree limbs threaten woodpeckers’ habitats

By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

After eleven years in office, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has admittedly failed to formulate a definite and clear-cut policy
in regard to wholesale woodpecker habitat destruction on campus. The controversy, which seriously threatens the reputation of the college, centers
around the continued cutting of dead limbs by Grounds Department personnel even though these limbs are needed by local woodpeckers
as feeding and nesting sites.

Irvin Brawley, supervisor of the Grounds Department, stated frankly, “We don’t do much to attract birds.” However, he defended the
actions of his department as being necessary to the protection of student safety. “Dead limbs have fallen off trees and
hit students; that’s why we call them dangerous deadwood,” Brawley explained.

NC PIRG spokesman John Hedrick emphatically said that his organization “is determined to put a stop to these abusive practices
and will pour all of its resources into the effort.” “PIRG intends to file a motion in Federal district court
requiring Davidson College and its administrators,

Students find diversion in alternative activities

By ROGER BROWN
Staff Writer

The rural setting and homey environment of Davidson provide students with a fertile agar in which to develop alternative means
of enjoyment. Students have found hours of happiness on the playground equipment of the Davidson Elementary School. Chambers offers a
hide-and-seeker’s paradise, although Love Auditorium is often advisably put off limits. A stealthy tree climbing coalition is in constant search
for challenging hardwoods.

“E.H. Little 900” allows those with high-speed tendencies to experience break-neck paces through the treacherous “New Fiction” aisles or the
often disabling microfilm hairpins. Spontaneous debates at historic campus sites allow the student to empathize with fun-seekers of old. Nocturnal
“bathing in the buff” tends to dominate the thoughts and desires of every true good sport.

Freeze-out, a game with complex rules and demanding rigor, is new to the campus. In chilling December weather, bare-chested Wildcats
ride at rapid speed with windows down and air-conditioner on. The first “wimp-out” must buy ice cream cones and slurpies
for the group. One disparaged participant was heard to say, “Put some glass in that pneumonia hole.”

The big-city dweller may choose to join the throngs of our number who make the quick, one-mile trip to underground
Cornelius. Nowhere within a two-mile radius of Davidson can more livid and stimulating opportunities be found. Nightly debates of the
merits of Funks G-7 as opposed to Coker Hybrid Corn are open to all. Groups pair up in equal teams
and at a given signal accumulate all their belly-button lint into a pile. Wagering for winning teams, although extra-legal, is
popular covertly. Prizes are given for bizarre colors and textures, and of course weighing of the team’s composite piles of
lint determines the overall winner.

The happy Wildcat who has shed his or her best for bright lights, fast cars, and seedy bars for more
transcendental activities may wish to join the more sedate pleasures found on the campus. The Students for a Greener Tomorrow
spend Tuesday mornings from 3 to 6 sowingBermuda grass seed on Davidson’s new all-purpose, indoor-outdoor Tartan track. The Natural Knitting
Society is attempting to determine more effective ways to utilize the pine cone in their Afghan needlepoint work. Causing the
biggest stir on campus this fall is the almost violent group of students demanding that the administration construct a three-acre
oyster farm. They cite campus unity and mere oysters at Slater as obvious advantages from the program, but also feel
the farm would indirectly but strongly affect student performance on the GRE’s. The wide-open market for pearl sales should quickly
yield a return on the investment, not to mention the deep satisfaction all members of the community would derive from
having an oyster farm at Davidson.

Dr. Spencer, to file a comprehensive environmental impact statement with the EPA before proceeding with this willful distinction. “This is
just another example of man’s refusal to live in harmony with nature. If we would only be a little more
tolerant of our surroundings, we wouldn't have to deal with such controversies. Really this whole matter is just a question
of squatter’s rights,” claimed Hedrick. If the question of “which came first—the college or the woodpeckers?” becomes crucial to the
issue, Brawley is fully prepared to show that almost all of the trees on campus were planted at one time
or another by the college. Brawley fails to see what all the fuss is about because “there are over 400
acres behind the campus we haven’t touched yet.” Unfortunately, most of these wooded areas behind the school are made up
of pine or pine-hardwood associations. The open hardwood forest, characterized by large deciduous trees growing far apart with only low
ground cover between them, can only be found on the campus itself. For most species of local woodpeckers, the difference
is minimal and for you’re not a student.

DAVIDSON is a haven for diversion even if strong populations of Red-bellied Woodpeckers and Common Flickers. Both the Downy and
Hairy Woodpeckers are fairly common. Davidson's only migrant woodpecker, the Yellow-bellied Sapsucker, is somewhat numerous during the winter months. But
for the Red-headed Woodpecker, which according to Elizabeth Barnhill Clarkson’s Birds of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County, North Carolina has decreased
in numbers locally, the difference between an open deciduous forest and a thick pine-hardwood forest is crucial. It requires open
woods. With the rise in property taxes, landowners have been largely unwilling to allow unprofitable open hardwoods to take up
acreage. As a result, this necessary habitat has shrunk rapidly and only if the remaining suitable areas, such as college
campuses, allow the birds to make use of trees can they continue to survive. Several other factors affect woodpecker populations
including the usurpation of nesting cavities by rapacious starlings and the hitting of these birds by cars. Since the term
began, only one Red-headed Woodpecker has been on campus. This bird was seen on September 13.

The creativity and determination in spite of the non-existence or decadence of organized outlets is truly encouraging that the future
of our land is in good hands.
