January 30, 1976

The Davidsonian

IMAC swimmers compete

KA clinches meet

By DAVE KELLER
Sports Editor

A strong team of Kappa Alpha swimmers overcame 1st Richardson and dove ahead to a strong lead to capture the annual IMAC swim meet last night.

The preliminary races, held Tuesday night, left teams from K.A., P.D.T., S.A.E., S.P.E., 1st Richardson, and the two-man Emanon team of Robert Trawick and Crawford Crenshaw to compete in the finals. The K.A. contingent, with several outstanding individuals and two good relay teams, seemed destined to win from the start.

In the first race of the evening, David Hardaway of 1st Richardson barely nipped Foster Jennings in the 100 yd. Freestyle; in the next event, Hardaway’s teammate David Herrington beat Pete West by inches to take first place.

S.A.E. and S.P.E. teams didn’t show for the 200 yard Medley Relay, leaving the K.A.’s and the Delts to battle for first. The K.A. team of Lane, Jennings, Cornish, and Robinson got an early lead behind Scott Lane’s backstroke and swam on to a convincing victory. Lane swam a strong performance, and his teammate Jim Cornish edged Pete West and David Herrington in an impressive 50 yard Butterfly race.

In the 50 yard Freestyle, Crawford Crenshaw took the honors for Emanon, and K.A. Scott Lane swam another very fast race to finish first in the 50 yard Backstroke.

At this point, the K.A.’s had already clinched first place in the meet, but second place was tied 15-15 between Phi Delt and 1st Richardson. The final race of the night, the 200 yard Medley Relay, was the tie-breaker, as the Delt team of Strange, Cebul, J. Taylor, and Neikirk came in behind the K.A. #1 team of Cornish, Robinson, Jennings, and Lewis to capture second overall; K.A. team #2 finished a close third in the relay.

The final point totals were K.A. 37, Phi Delt 20, 1st Richardson 15, and Emanon 9. Bryan Andrews, IMAC Coordinator, said, “the meet went very well, especially considering that I had never run a meet before, much less been to one.”

... Wrestlers

[Continued from page 10]
his opponent in a minute and a half.

The 177 pound match saw Scott Phillips emerge with a close 12-11 decision to keep the Wildcats ahead 25-15. Freshman Joe Saunders was outweighed by 20 pounds in the 190 pound bout and dropped a decision. Jack Summe wrapped up the Cat victory by pinning his Campbell opponent.

The Wildcat grapplers competed last Saturday in the Bulldog Invitational at The Citadel.

Freshmen Dulaney and Phillips won their respective weight classes, and Davidson collected a silver medal from Jacobs and bronze medals from Scandling and Summe. Mumby, Ballard, and Holloway each took a fourth place.

The Wildcats host Lynchburg College in Johnston Gym Friday night at 7 pm.

... Cagers

[Continued from page 9]
final span at 14.

Alex English finished with a game-high 31 points plus ten rebounds for South Carolina as all five of their starters scored in double figures. Mike Dunleavy was next for the visitors with 15. Sophomore guard Jackie Gilloon contributed 14.

John Gerdy led the Davidson scoring attack with 19 while Tom Dore added 12 more. Tom Jorgensen was the only other Wildcat in double figures with ten. Dore was Davidson’s leading rebounder with nine, and Gerdy followed with six. Jay Powell, who had only nine points, had ten assists.

TWO CONTESTANTS take the plunge in Wednesday’s IMAC swim meet.

-Pete Goodman

Tankers find season highs, discuss weak, strong points

By PETE WEST
Staff Writer

The Davidson swimming team’s 2-4 record is the only factor in their season that has not lived up to expectations. According to team captain Ron “Scoop” Owens and Jim Wood, the leading point scorer for the season, there have been several bright spots.

Jonathan Washburn, who has set several pool and team records this year, is the brightest spot, according to Owens and Wood. The team has lost its last two meets against William and Mary 62-33 and Richmond 53-37, but Washburn set three records during these two meets.

Washburn broke two pool records in the meet with William and Mary, recording a time of 2:10 in the 200 Individual Medley and 2:24.8 in the 200 Breaststroke. Against Richmond, he broke the pool record in the 500 Freestyle by recording a time of 5:17.6.

In an earlier meet against V.M.I., Washburn set two team records, one in the 200 Backstroke at 2:14.6 and the other in the 200 Individual Medley at 2:08.1.

Coach Pat Drake is considered another asset for the team.

“She has done a great job this year,” said Wood. “She really knows a lot about swimming, and has helped all the swimmers a great deal.”

“The team has another possible bright spot in the future. If we win four out of our last six meets we will be the first Davidson swimming team in at least ten years to have a .500 season or better,” said Owens.

According to Wood, however, this possible success will probably not be observed by many Davidson supporters.

“In fact, the support has been so bad that we only had two people at one meet,” said Wood. “We’ll set up chairs if people show interest in watching.”

SHERLOCK HOLMES

SIR JOHN GIELGUD as Sherlock Holmes

SIR RALPH RICHARDSON as Doctor Watson

Wednesday Nights, 11:30
WDAV