the davidsonian January 30, 1976

The Joy of Eating
By BOB ENRIGHT and MARK YOW
Staff Writers

The self-selection of eating houses by freshmen and upperclassmen tired of Slater Food Services is almost upon us. The following Patterson Fraternity Court eating houses have submitted information on themselves in hopes of enlightening prospects. The correspondents are members of the respective houses. Their names have been withheld to protect the guilty and the biased.

ATO
ATO provides an alternative to almost everything. For example, sanity. What other house has members that throw themselves into the creek? It all comes from the fact that ATO is the only student-run house on the court: all house business, including planning of meals and ordering of food, is done by students. The one fortunate exception to this is in the department of meal preparation. ATO’s cooks, Sue and Annie, have been at the house over fifteen years and their cooking has become justly famous. The meal-planning includes one fast-day per term, the proceeds of which go to fight world hunger, a 24-hour open kitchen, and hot breakfast. Many improvements have been made in the house this year, including a paint job, a new carpet and stereo. ATO has always been a pioneer of sorts—it was the first coed house on the court—and now is blazing trails in the area of unusual behavior. The membership is amazingly diverse—we even have some paragons of sanity. It doesn’t matter where you fit in, or don’t fit in.

Emanon
Far and away the largest house on the court, Emanon has managed to combine some of the best eating on the court with the lowest prices. The house is in a sense a melting pot of all personality types on campus. Some of the plusses of Emanon include hot breakfasts, desserts at lunch, Wednesday night ice cream parties, bridge parties, and great cooks.

ETC
Et Cetera (ETC for short) is the youngest eating club on Patterson Court. It was founded in the spring of 1974 by a group of rising sophomores who felt that the other houses on the court did not provide the atmosphere or quality of food they desired. Today ETC serves food to over 62 students. This food is prepared for the students by two of the finest cooks on campus, Mrs. Cecilia Conner and Mrs. Verdie Heath. These two are more than cooks, they are an integral part of the warmth and hospitality that is found at ETC. As for the food, we let that speak for itself. Besides serving food, we also provide our members with an atmosphere for fellowship and interaction, as well as with social events. ETC was designed for and is continuing to cater to the interests of the independent student. The membership of the house presents a diverse array of tastes and interests which stimulates the expression of individuality in group interaction. Both men and women are welcome and equal members of ETC. Therefore, the membership of ETC, its officers, and the cooks extend a warm invitation to all freshmen and upperclassmen who are looking for a friendly and good place to eat.

Fannie & Mabel’s
Fannie and Mabel’s is named after its redoubtable cooks, who have been on the court for over twenty-four years. This makes the food among the finest at Davidson. Furthermore, the kitchen is kept unlocked for a light breakfast, as well as for snacks throughout the day. Among the five houses not affiliated with a national fraternity, F & M features the most extensive social program. Highlights include pre-basketball game cocktail parties, our famous gambling casino, and the Mike Jones stairway tumbling exhibition, not to mention those good ol’ band parties. Finally, F & M has the finest pool table on campus, the only dunkball court, and some newly upholstered furniture which makes Fannie & Mabel’s far and away the finest house on the court.

KA
Kappa Alpha is the home of Southern hospitality. It stresses a strong national fraternity spirit and brotherhood within the framework of the Davidson community. A well-rounded, diverse house featuring a strong social life and a competitive intramural program, KA serves hot and continental breakfast, lunch and supper.

PAX
PAX provides a forum for many people of diverse interests to get together for fun and fine food. We feature continental breakfast plus thirteen full meals weekly with options for half-board. Our social program includes a variety of activities.tailored to appeal to all types of persons. We have ample room for expansion, and extend welcome to all coeds. Stop by and see why we’ve obtained the reputation of being the friendliest house on the court.

Phi Delta Theta

The Delts are very fortunate to have the two most conscientious cooks on campus and the food has variety and is well-prepared. They serve two full meals every day (only lunch Saturday) and continental breakfast at ten. The Delts offer what is probably the strongest and certainly the fullest social program on the court, with the three big weekends plus mountain weekend and notorious others. They are a very close-knit body drawn together by the friendships and personalities of the members, which is, after all, why one chooses a house. The best advice for really finding out about the Delts (or anyone for that matter) is to talk personally with some of the members because they are what makes the house.

PIKA

There are many distinctions that separate PIKA from the rest of the houses on the court. The most important is the food which is reportedly “the best on the court.” Since everybody brags, it must be true, but if that’s not enough to attract you, our new stereo or foosball table may. The table attracts a crowd of people before, after, and during meals. One additional distinction of PIKA is that there is no hassle over being national or non-national. Girls are beginning to play an increasing role in the house. People visiting PIKA always comment that our house is clean. Our new rugs and hard-working House Manager should be given credit for this.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

SAE at Davidson College is a strong national fraternity. Its members are pledged to scholarship and brotherhood; at all times exhibiting those manly and noble qualities of a true gentleman.

Friday, January 30, 1976
3 pm Bandwagon
7 pm Swimming: Furman
8 & 10:30 pm Wrestling: Lynchburg
TBA Pop Film: “A Touch of Class”

Saturday, January 31, 1976
1 pm Casino Nite—Price $1
1 pm Swimming: Georgia Tech
8 pm Soph.-Jr. Life/Work Planning Morrison Room
9 & 11 pm Basketball: East Carolina

Monday, February 2, 1976
TBA Mini Concert: Raum McKinnon Price $2

Tuesday, February 3, 1976
TBA Dr. George Wald—Reynolds Lecturer
10 am Dr. George Wald—Reynolds Lecturer
10 am Interviews—Camp Monroe
10 am Interviews—U.S. Navy
12 pm Open End with Dr. Spencer
4 pm Share-It-With-Your-Brother Meal Banquet Hall
4:30 pm Military History Documentary Film Series
7 pm Small Group Leaders Meeting Morrison Room
7 pm Women’s Basketball: Guilford
7 pm Worship Service

Wednesday, February 4, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries
TBA Dr. George Wald—Reynolds Lecturer
9 am Interviews—Georgia Railroad and Trust Bank
4 pm Swimming: Citadel
4 pm Film: “Music of Shakespeare’s Time”
7 pm Drama Workshop Plays III: Birdbath and the Mountain
8 pm Chorus Basketball: Appalachian

Thursday, February 5, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone Stowe Galleries
10 am Coffee and Cokes
10 am Women Speakers Group
5:30 pm Women’s Basketball: Pfeiffer Misenheimer, N.C.
7 pm Fraternity Self-Selection
7 pm Psychology Club Meeting
TBA Coffeehouse: Marian Perkins Band

All pledges complete a rigorous pledge training program prior to their initiation into the bonds of fraternity. The pledge program is designed to cultivate, in each pledge, a complete understanding of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. SAE is a national fraternity... it is not merely an eating club. Our rush chairmen have combed the Class of ’79 thoroughly. Encouragements have been given... in total compliance with the regulations set down by Davidson College.