the davidsonian April 9, 1976

Udall supports legislation for conservation, reform

By CATHY LANDIS
Feature Editor

Every election, a minority of people support a candidate whom they know should be president but who has little chance of winning. This year, the die-hard idealists back Morris K. Udall. Supporting Udall becomes more a matter of principles than of politics; he is the only viable progressive candidate running.

Udall was elected to the House of Representatives in 1961. The theme of his congressional career has been “courage, candor, and reform.” A group of 45 fellow House members urged Udall to enter the 1976 presidential race because of his early leadership against the Vietnam War, his action against the Seniority System and political corruption, and his legislative programs to heal the country’s economic, energy, and environmental problems. They recognize him as a myopic visionary with one eye on the future.

“Mo” Morris Udall, commonly called “Mo,” was born June 15, 1922, in St. John’s, Arizona. He served four years with the Air Force in the Pacific in World War II; he was discharged as a captain. He graduated with distinction in 1949 with a law degree from the University of Arizona.

Udall now serves as chairman of the Environmental Subcommittee of the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs. He is the leading House sponsor of the National Land Use Planning Act, the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, and a three billion dollar energy research and development program. He has been active in passing conservation measures including the Wilderness Act and those establishing the Redwood National Park, North Cascades National Park, Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, the Assateague and Gateway Seashore, and the Land of Conservation Act.

Conservation

Both the New York Times and Field and Stream Magazine have named him one of the leading conservationists in Congress. The National Wildlife Federation awarded him the “Legislator of the Year” award for 1973. He has published three books: Arizona Law of Evidence, The Job of the Congressman, and Education of a Congressman. He has written articles for Reader’s Digest, Progressive, The New Republic, Playboy, Saturday Review/World, The New York Times, and Los Angeles Times have also published his articles.

The first priority of a Udall administration will be jobs. He believes that full employment is the key to steady, balanced economic growth and an end to poverty and discrimination. He proposes that the present unemployment costs of $50 billion a year in additional welfare and lost taxes could be used for health and child care, railroads, recycling, housing, solid waste management, and for the aged. He would expand the public works and public service programs such as rebuilding the nation’s railroad beds, mass transit, sewage plants, water and water treatment facilities. He backs a sound energy policy of restructuring the oil giants and the energy wasteland.

Udall opposes big business. He holds a 90 percent voting record in favor of labor. He wants to restore competition in energy, transportation, food marketing, drugs, and steel. Udall favors a no-fault system for auto insurance. He has proposed legislation establishing a competitive review commission to develop an industry-by-industry program to restore competition.

Civil Rights

Udall supports a full and vigorous enforcement of the civil rights laws. He believes the most crucial element in achieving these goals will be the quality of moral leadership forthcoming from the President. He played an important role in the passage of the major Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, and the Open Housing Act. Udall holds a progressive position on women’s rights. He backs legislation which would provide free child care to the poor and low-income families. He pushes the ERA, wants to enforce the law to achieve the goals of Title IX, and has proposed several reforms in the Social Security System. He supports the Supreme Court decision on abortion.

Foreign Affairs is Udall’s weakest area. He supports Israel totally and believes that peace can be achieved through peaceful means. He stands for cut-backs in defense spending.

Conservation

Udall’s chief concern is the environment. He feels it is important that the environment not be sacrificed by needs caused by panic such as lowering air and water standards and burning coal. He is the biggest pusher of the development of alternative forms of energy.

Udall leads the liberal pack, but most have little hope for his victory. He obviously has not given up though: last night he came in second in Wisconsin as he did in New York.

Vitriolic him = ves with raw power

Taxi Driver

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

Now that he is a fairly well-established film director, Martin Scorsese,I hope he has enough economic resources to enable him to buy a house in the country. For if his latest film, Taxi Driver, is any indication of his attitude toward city life, then the sooner he gets away from urban areas, the happier he will be. Taxi Driver is a film of incredible power: a relentless, at times shrill vendetta against the big city and the way it entraps humanity. The film, with a screenplay by Paul Schrader, can perhaps be divided into four segments of different lengths which variously elaborate on and collide with the sections coming before. The central factor in each is the title character, an ex-marine named Travis Bickle (Robert De Niro) who takes a job as a nighttime cab driver in New York (six in the evening till six in the morning) mainly, he tells his boss, because of the long hours. Much of the first part of the film is seen through the windows of Travis’ cab, as he drives through the “underside” of the city. In this early section, Scorsese first begins to build up the feeling of threat, which comes to dominate the film. The darkness of the night is relieved only by the garishness of porno movie houses and grimy restaurants. People emerge out of the darkness and suddenly disappear into it again. We hear Travis, in his journal, yearn for “real rain,” which will wash away all the debris, including the human kind. He sees an antidote to this dark world in Betsy, a stylish, sophisticated campaign worker, played by Cybill Shepherd. Scorsese uses Shepherd here much the same way Elaine May used her in The Heartbreak Kid: as an idealized, inaccessible American dream-girl. She does accept Travis’ invitation for a date, being fascinated by his personality, but understandably cuts off the relationship with great abruptness when he takes her to one of the porno houses which adorn his cab-driving beat. Shattered by this rejection, which he can’t understand, Travis begins the metamorphosis from merely a lonely cabbie to a dangerous “deviant.” He sees himself as a type of savior, a role which is personalized through his relationship with a twelve-year-old prostitute named Iris (Jodie Foster). Although he finds it easier to talk to Iris than to Betsy, Travis is still ineffectual; Iris doesn’t want to be saved. So Travis decides to turn to violence. This second part of the film is a haunting acting tour de force for De Niro as Travis, as we see him alone in his apartment challenge and destroy, in his imagination, various species of human debris with the very real arsenal of weaponry which he has purchased. Scorsese continues to build the tension as Travis lays plans for his saving act: the assassination of the presidential candidate for whom Betsy works. The third part of the film, in which Travis takes action, cannot be effectively discussed without reducing its wrenching effect. Suffice it to say that the catharsis which it almost brings about is effectively postponed by the fourth part, a serene but grimly ironic coda. Paradoxically, Schrader and Scorsese have so manipulated you by this point that this seeming calm is like the eye of the storm: it is the most threatening part of the whole film. The most amazing thing about the film is its sustained power: it grabs you at the beginning, and continues throttling you down to the last frame. This is due to a combination of factors. Michael Chapman and Michael Zingale’s cinematography alternately picks out the minutest details of dirt and garbage, and ensconces you in a dream world of slow motion and a fog of exhaust fumes. The sets of Charles Rosen and Herbert Mulligan are loaded with so much meaningless clutter that you can almost smell the stench; Travis’ apartment, for example, is beautifully appalling. The musical score was the last created by the distinguished composer Bernard Herrmann (his previous credits included Citizen Kane, Fahrenheit 451, and a number of Hitchcock films, including The Birds and Psycho), and centers around a highly evocative tenor sax refrain beautifully played by Ronnie Lang. De Niro creates, in Travis Bickle, a classic portrayal of a loser. He plays him completely without sentimentality, and arouses in the viewer the same emotions he arouses in the various characters he meets in the film. The last thing I would want to do is to scare people away from the film unduly; it is an extraordinary work of art. But I do think it’s important to be forewarned that this is no drawing-room comedy. It’s a vitriolic film; perhaps at times too much so. But for those interested in the raw power of the cinematic art, I can’t think of a more appropriate film than this one.