October 15, 1976

Farrell’s gridders tie winless Randolph-Macon team 0-0

By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

Offensive inconsistency and a strong defense characterized the Wildcat football team at Randolph-Macon last Saturday.

The result was a 0-0 tie against what was reputed to be the weakest team on Davidson’s schedule.

Randolph-Macon is an NCAA Division III school without a win this season. The Cats found themselves in the unusual position
of being favored and by a large, 17-point margin.

However, the inability of the offense to generate a balanced attack proved the predictors wrong.

For the first time this year, the Cats gained more than 100 yards in a game, rolling up a reasonable
227 yards. But they failed to complete a single pass and the zero in passing yardage hurt.

Certainly, it was a far cry from the days of Harper, Shipp, Pomeroy, Walker.

Yet despite the lack of balance, the Wildcats had two opportunities to score.

In the second quarter, with a first down at the six, three running plays netted four yards. Faced with a
fourth down at the two, Davidson chose to go for it and lost a yard.

In the last period, the offense mounted its best drive of the season, reeling off five first downs and advancing
to the Randolph-Macon six-yard line. However, a lost fumble on first down let another scoring opportunity slip away.

The defense was, again, the only bright spot for the Wildcat fans. In limiting the opposition to 175 yards, they
effectively bottled up Randolph-Macon’s offense.

Only once did Randolph-Macon threaten to score.

Following a Cat fumble at the Davidson 28, the other team moved it to the three-yard line. There, the Wildcats
twice stopped line plunges on third and first, and fourth and first situations to take over the ball.

Coach Farrell expressed disappointment in his team’s performance. This Saturday, the Wildcats will go after their first win against Madison
College for the Homecoming.

-Irv Wilson

After a disappointing loss at a four-way meet at Appalachian, the Wildcat track team will run in a meet against
Wake Forest, High Point, and Georgia State at Winston-Salem.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary

While the grandeur of the past is gone, Wildcat football continues to draw the devotion of determined men.

-Irv Wilson

Title IX discussed

[Continued from page 1]

“I think the first two years the girls felt they had to prove themselves to the institution and the community,”
said Jean Parks, member of the Title IX Self Study Committee.

Parks said some men students who “for lack of a better word I’ll call chauvinistic,” had to change their attitudes
toward women. Some did, but some men wouldn’t, according to her. “Some weren’t afraid to let that be known,” she
said.

Both Parks and Dietler feel blatant discrimination has, for the most part, disappeared on campus, but that Title IX is
still needed.

“I see a need for it, because I thought it was a good way after five years of coeducation to
look at coeducation and to see if we’ve accomplished the original goals for coeducation,” said Dietler.

“It was also needed to the extent that at different times throughout the year rumor had it that students wanted
to change this, that, or another, and Title IX allows for that to happen,” she continued.

“I think (Title IX) may encourage the girls to make the complaints that they can back up with legality, but
I don’t know if people will use the procedures,” said Parks. “I’ll be real curious to see that.”

“Because of Title IX the campus is more aware of what discrimination is by using Title IX as a guide,”
said Dietler.

She believes it will help counteract unconscious discrimination. “That’s precisely the point,” she said. “Some people believe certain things and
don’t feel they’re discriminating, and have good reasons to do the things they do. This is frustrating to the person
who feels he or she is discriminated against.”

Dietler feels that Title IX as an educational process “helps people to reflect on things they consider to be tradition.”
Traditions can be evaluated, and maybe be replaced by new customs.

“The presence of coeds themselves made us develop an awareness and sensitivity to any discrimination as well as the normal
things that go with discrimination,” said Director of Personnel and Chairman of the Title IX Self Study Committee Robert Stephenson.

“I don’t anticipate anything earth-shaking as a result of Title IX because the community was already sensitive to those things
in Title IX, but it will serve as a means of keeping the issue in front of us at all
times, as a tool to keep the rights of men and women up front,” he said.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL
Soup of the Day
Only 10¢ a Cup
Monday, Oct. 18 — All Day

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Nashville
Next Week—Oct. 22
