6 May 7, 1976 ... hall counselors - [Continued from page 4]

Myth number four: The Hall Counselor program is one of the most important concerns of the Dean of Students office. The fact is that nothing is of that much concern to anyone on first floor Chambers (with some notable exceptions, Dr. Williams). When Dr. Spencer became bored and cut out Hall Counselor pay, Dean Terry was virtually silent.

Now let us turn our attention to the freshman year experience. For many, freshman year is one of the best years at Davidson. However, while initial effects of the freshmen hall are satisfying, this is short-lived. The freshman hall encourages a narrow field of interaction with students not on your hall. Your best friends tend to come from a freshman hall. Freshman halls typically sign up for an eating house or fraternity en masse. Groups of people on halls try to block house during their sophomore year.

Duff Bruce sits down on the job

So profound is the effect of the hall, that in all subsequent years at Davidson you begin to realize that you have acquired the habit of socializing with only those who live on your dorm halls, or in the same house with you. Is this justified at a school of this size? What then is the solution? I believe the Wilensky Doctrine (Mr. Wilensky of course did not originate this concept, but since I do not know who did I will credit him) is the most plausible. This line of reasoning abolishes all freshman halls. It allows all the halls to be mixed. The result would be more interaction among all classes. A freshman on a hall with seven upperclassmen would in effect have seven hall consultants. The living situation would be more natural and interesting. Many people will initially reject this proposal, but then people always resist change, especially at Davidson.

-Hunter Jennings

John Bird has seen Davidson from both sides

“Daddy Bird” speaks

By GEORGE KING
Staff Writer

When night weighs heavy and the pain of academics brings sweat to brow, most students turn to their Union. In Davidson, that means the 900 Room. There you can find a relaxing atmosphere, good spirits, and that peach-loving purveyor of intoxicants, John Bird. John is a 23-year-old alumnus from Norfolk, Virginia with a major in history. He has worked for ARA Slater for five years. One of the first things one notices about John is his incredible interest in people. “The most valuable part of my Davidson experience has been the people I got to know,” he said. This attitude has certainly proved valuable in his job this year.

But how does Davidson look to such an observer, a man who has seen it both as a student and a “towny”? First of all, there is a distinction between Davidson and Davidson College. This distinction is too often overlooked by most students of the college. Of the town, John says, “It’s a good place with lots of people. I love it... It’s secure.” But “it’s too easy to slide by. There is no pressure in any direction to make you excel. It’s a self-stifling atmosphere. It doesn’t move with time.”

The college, on the other hand, has changed. Today’s student seems a lot more involved in academics, a lot more concerned with his future (though probably no more of them know where they are going). This is due in part to co-education. “Having girls on campus has calmed a lot of guys down.” It has also made the school more competitive. “The college seems to be taking less people who are not goal-oriented. People used to party more, to pass more time... You used to be able to go out at night and find people looking for anyone to talk to.”

It is the ability to “pass time” that seems to distinguish the life of John the student from John the “towny.” John feels that as a student one has an excuse for being here, a direction. Without that excuse, life in Davidson becomes too secure. “There is this incredible sense of waste. I’m spinning my wheels. I’m not going anywhere. I’m not advancing inside or out. I’m passing time.”

Duffer reflects as 8-year veteran

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

In the fall of 1968, the class of ’72 arrived at Davidson. Among those lads was a fellow by the name of Duff Bruce. Duff Bruce, who may or may not be a legend in his own time, has been here ever since. The obvious question then is what makes a student stay around here after he graduates. Duff still is not sure. “I had decided not to go to law school and being assistant to the President seemed like an interesting way to pass a year while I thought about what to do.” He was ready to leave again after that year when C. Shaw Smith was looking for an assistant director for the Union. Duff was a logical candidate because as a student he worked closely with the Union and served as Vice President and Social...Council Chairman. Since he had worked on the inside, he knew what to expect of such a job. Again, after a year was up, he was ready to leave. Then a position in the Admissions Office became available. Says Duff, “I’m sort of the Eliot Richardson of Davidson College.” He never dreamed he would stay here this long. His “crowning achievement,” he says, was receiving Omicron Delta Kappa at Spring Convocation this year. “I’d stick around some more if I thought I’d get Phi Beta Kappa.”

Duff has a whole library full of stories of his years at Davidson. Besides his many Union activities, he was a hall counselor. Duff has been here to see some major changes in the college. He believes co-education was and is good for the school. He says, however, the campus seems quieter. “There are not as many really crazy people like Miles Ward, and there are no happenings like the What-a-Betty fiasco.” He also believes the changes in the social system of Patterson Court were good for students, though many alumni were and are disillusioned. He feels too that the students need to plan more to keep that situation workable. “Patterson Court could easily work its way into a very curious double standard.”

Duff talked of his student years as I hope I can remember mine. Duff’s freshman class was the last to have to wear beanies. “It was a sort of campus-wide haze. It promoted unity in the freshman class at least.” At that time, all freshmen were in Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle. All sophomores were in Belk. Every year, at least once, the freshman class had to attack Belk in a huge water fight. “If you didn’t, you were a wimp.” Naturally, Duff and his classmates were not wimps. Anyway, one of Duff’s friends broke a water-fighting “law” and dumped some water into a room. Duff just happened to be with him. The two basketball players who lived in the room were not pleased. Someone had recognized Duff, and the next thing he knew, he was being stuffed into a large metal trash can and rolled down two flights of stairs. Then these two drunk basketball players picked him up, dragged him to the top of the stairs, and held him by his ankles, threatening to drop him. “I thought my life was forfeited.” They relented, but not before Duff lost all the change in his pockets as it trickled past his earlobe and tinkled faintly on the stairwell below.

Later, as a hall counselor, Duff again saw his life flash before him when two guys on his hall pulled a prank in the old Union. They put a liquid center golf ball into a microwave oven. The ball exploded through the grill on the door, shot across the room, and embedded itself two inches into the plaster next to Duff’s ear.

Our man Duff was also around during the days of nationwide campus unrest and the “big march on Washington.” All the large universities had to close down during those days. Davidson was “seething with rest.” A sit-in on the lawn across from the Post Office was sparsely attended. Duff and a few die-hards did make the pilgrimage to Washington—“more out of curiosity than anything else.” While he was in a phone booth calling home, he got tear-gassed. “It was so ironic. I felt like I was in one of Kurt Vonnegut’s novels.”

A highlight of Duff’s career as a student working with the Union was Spring Frolics his senior year. Nitty Gritty Dirt Band made their second appearance, and Bette Midler, with Barry Manilow on piano, appeared in Chambers Banquet Hall.

Duff is certainly not leaving Davidson because he is disillusioned with the place or the people. He knows, perhaps better than many of us, about the good and the bad aspects of life at Davidson. His main observation is that the closeness of Davidson sometimes really works against it. He remarked that the morale of the faculty seems low at this time. The reasons for this are hard to pinpoint, but perhaps once some decisions are made about the academic vice president and the governance situation, the climate for progress will improve.

As for student social life, Duff believes most students are better off than they think. Again, however, the closeness of the small community works against the student. If, for example, two people of the opposite sex are seen together often, whether it really is a “romance” or not, soon they are “expected” to be together.

Duff is glad that he had the chance to work in three different areas of the college. Working from the different angles made him really aware of the special types of problems each administrator he worked for had to face. “I’ve really appreciated the people that I’ve worked and lived with. I’ve learned a lot from everyone that I probably wouldn’t have had a chance to experience otherwise. But now I know that it’s time to go.”

Lay on, MacDuff.