October 24, 1976, a sexual discrimination noted that it was open only to example of discrimination. There have been past instances that set up a candidate. The group should be allowed to philanthropic Literary Society. The Society will be their membership. Title IX requirements offerings were males and females, and the choral committee advised that to men, but the to be a women. They are easing the with our choral chorus, the women. The Madrigal every student has in at least one season. “The Committee comparable professional each group and advice should be. It intends continuing admittedly sexist that all colleges facilities do not services they offer. The Committee advised the college to state in its official publications: “We do not offer full health services.”

The College’s student services personnel, faculty advisors, and hall counselors must avoid sex-biased counseling. “We don’t want to hear any advice like, ‘Since you're a girl, don’t spend too much money on education. Just get a degree here and stop—you will be married before too long,’” said Dietler. The Committee found no inequities in dispensing financial aid through regular channels and no discrimination in student employment practices.

The Self-Study Report was completed July 21 and submitted to Spencer. Assistant to the President Peter Clark has been preparing the report for Spencer’s evaluation. “I took the Committee’s recommendations, summarized each individually, noted through which channels I thought each should go, and gave my information to Dr. Spencer,” said Clark.

Title IX will have an impact on sex discrimination in athletics at colleges across the land. The Department of Health, Education and Welfare (Title IX overseers) recognizes the complexity of problems in this area and has allowed the schools until July 21, 1978, to report on ending discrimination in athletics. “This summer the Committee studied some aspects of athletics at Davidson. After another discussion with Pat Drake, we will turn over our athletics data to Dr. Spencer,” said Stephenson. “I imagine that the 1978 Report will deal with the problems and possibilities of providing physical education facilities and athletic programs for women that are comparable to men’s.

“Another controversial issue will be the legality of Davidson offering 15 scholarships for men’s basketball but no athletic scholarships in any sport for girls.” “Title IX regulations call for some degree of parity between men and women in opportunities for scholarships,” said Stephenson. No action will be taken immediately, but Clark confirmed “that Dr. Spencer will initiate plans to meet the 1978 deadline. He has not decided under what format the study will be made.”

“In the $35 million we hope to raise, funds are earmarked for a reorganization of the athletics program—I imagine that reorganization will be in some way tied to Title IX rules. At any rate, we have almost two years, and that’s plenty of time to attend to the matter,” Clark concluded.

Title IX grievance procedure: the time the student has, which is the basis for the specific grievance.

The Gaviusonian Special Report Title IX Honors Center [Continued from going the route of the Benois Center.] “Wherever we can open up programs such as these to the entire student body, however, we will,” he emphasized. Avinger explained that departmental honors are controlled entirely by the individual departments. The Honors Center has nothing to do with directing their programs or evaluating them. “We do, however, want to encourage students in departmental honors to participate in the Center,” he added. “Let’s face it, if a student is interested in strictly departmental honors, he can find them in a particular department. The Honors Center allows him to explore areas and departments not offered by the...college,” he said. As an example, Avinger cited the area of linguistics in which the college does not have a major. Utilizing the Honors Center, a student could pursue this interest in the different departments involved but under one program directed by the Center.

Counseling [Continued from page 1]

wing of the building, according to Smith. “The reason for that was that across the country more unions are adding services like counseling for the students. We think the addition will enhance the students’ opportunities, by giving them counseling in a normal way—they don’t have to run to a hideaway for counseling,” he said. “So we welcome counseling here.”

Formal classes are meeting in the Union this year, according to Smith. “Ideally we should not have classes in an activity building; it was done promiscuously at all; it was done with our cooperation,” said Smith. Informal classes met in the Union last year, but the Executive Board has given permission for the use of the building for regular classrooms. “My impression is they won’t use it as much as they thought they would, but they could,” he said.

900 ROOM Free

2. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
3. The remedy or corrective action sought.

but with space so close we don’t mind having them here. We also use some rooms intended only for academic uses, Perkins, for instance,” he said. “I don’t want people to feel the professor has not devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five class days, the grievance shall be referred to a Title IX Sub-Committee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life appointed by the Dean of Students. This committee has ten class days in which to hear the case and make recommendations to the Dean of Students for final action.

Pretzels For All. September 29-8:00 pm

the professor has not devised a satisfactory remedy for the complaint, the individual may present the grievance either in writing or in person to the appropriate department chairman. The following information should be included:

1. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
2. The remedy or corrective action sought.

Johnny Appleseed Pie Eating Contest

Note: The student may be accompanied by another student of his or her choice during any of the above steps. All time limits mentioned above may be extended by mutual agreement of all parties in the dispute.

the professor is unable to devise a satisfactory remedy for the complaint within five days, the grievance shall be referred to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The Vice President has ten class days in which to devise a final resolution of the grievance.

WELCOME IN and register often for a giant Teddy Bear to be given away to a Davidson student at a drawing at noon, Sept. 30. CHECK our full lines of gifts, cards, and items for your room’s decor. We offer Free Gift Wrap, Mailing Service, and a Custom Frame Shop with many, many prints, posters, and graphics.

THE VILLAGE STORE
DAVIDSON, N. C.

$20.00 Second Prize
$5.00 Third Prize
A Free Apple Pie

Thursday, Sept. 30-6:00 pm-- RICHARDS HOUSE

First Prize

If interested, please fill out the entry form and place it in one of the ballot boxes, either at Richards or Bailey Houses or Snack Bar. We will select six people to compete in the contest and they will be notified by Monday, September 27th.

ENTRY FORM:

1. The facts upon which the grievance is based.
2. The remedy or corrective action sought.

NAME:
Dorm and Room:
Phone or Ext.: