March 12, 1976

The Davidsonian

Juror hopes Davidson will keep the National

By GIL CUTHBERTSON
Staff Writer

The 1976 National is being judged by Marsha Tucker. According to Tucker, the quality of the Davidson National is the
highest of any show she has ever judged. Despite being beleaguered with problems, the Davidson National is still acclaimed as
one of the best of its kind in the country.

Tucker is currently the curator of the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. She is a graduate of
Connecticut College and the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University. She has written several books and is the
author of a recent article in Ms. Magazine. Her influence in American art is broad and varied.

Tucker made several interesting comments about this year’s show. “There is an almost equal division here between abstract and not
abstract. Realism holds up better in drawings than paintings. It is hard to pull off, but when it does, like
these works, it really is fine.”

When asked what she would be interested in when judging, Tucker replied, “I’m uninterested in technique and I tend to
ignore it because the best art overcomes technique. I have an unsecret passion for the bizarre.”

“Art is not entertainment, as entertainment appeals to what you already know. Good art is usually elusive. That is, it
is not so much what you look for, but what you find.”

After a moment’s thought and a deep breath, she added, “You know, I never wanted to be a critic. Critics
are failed artists or academicians. I think of myself as an interpreter. I am an interpreter between the artist, the
art community, and the art. I am not a critic.”

In view of recent discussions over the show, Tucker was asked about what would happen if the Davidson National were
to close. Tucker replied, “I think it would be a disaster. Even the art catalogues are valuable now. If the
show went, it would be a real loss.”

“HIGHEST QUALITY:” Davidson National judge Marsha Tucker studies an entry. “The show focuses national attention on the college as a
place of attracting the best art in the country. A college must be a cultural center if it is going
to be an educational center.”

She added, “The National enlarges the possibility of student contact with the rest of the art world. Most importantly, the
show makes the works available to students and the community at large. Keep the National, no matter where you show
it! The important thing is to be able to see it.”

Just as a momentary afterthought, Tucker turned and added, “I like my jobs, both of them. To be an interpreter
of art, one must use instinct over method. To be a curator of a museum, one must know how to
run a forklift.”

Carter pursues “manifest destiny”

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

Presidential hopeful James Earl (Jimmy) Carter is running a campaign based on love, the poems of Dylan Thomas, and the
promise of an attempt to help the United States continue to “dream great dreams.” Thus far Carter’s campaign has been
successful. Running a difficult to pinpoint campaign that is either liberal-conservative or conservative-liberal, Carter has won the Iowa and Vermont
Presidential caucuses and both the New Hampshire and Florida primaries, while finishing fourth in racially troubled Massachusetts.

Each victory or strong finish in a primary insures the candidate a specific number of votes in the national convention
where the party platform is set and the Presidential/Vice-Presidential ticket is determined. Carter has made it clear that he does
not want to be Vice-President. There are some who don’t believe the presidency is what Carter is after either. Carter
has been characterized as a man with a feeling of personal manifest destiny, a man who wants to be a
world monarch.

Despite these claims from those who now see Carter as the man to beat, Carter has very little knowledge of
foreign policies. This he admits. He has suggested that if experts have master-minded foreign policy in the past, then it
may be time...for an expert to have a chance. He supports diplomatic recognition of Cuba, a phasing out of troops
in Korea, and a continuation of talks with the Russians concerning nuclear armaments, hoping to reach a point where all
nuclear war instruments have been abolished. Detente is a sore subject for Carter, who feels that the Russians have received
more benefits than the United States. He also feels that in the pursuit of detente, Henry Kissinger has ignored some
of America’s traditional and long-standing allies. Involvement with the concerns of other countries would be decreased under a Carter administration.
Carter would cut the Defense budget by five to seven million dollars. He calls the Department of Defense the most
wasteful department in American government. The results of the cut would be a decreased ratio of officers to men and
of support forces to combat forces.

A major portion of Carter’s campaign is an insistence that he will cut out much of the bureaucracy and inefficiency
in government. Carter’s confidence in his ability to do this runs to obsession. As Governor of Georgia, Carter eliminated 278
of the state’s 300 agencies. Administrative costs were cut by 50 percent. This work was accomplished by allowing the high
attrition rate in these agencies to take effect. Carter fired no one to achieve his efficiency in Georgia. A similar
process in national government might have no effect.

One area Carter has definite plans to simplify is the tax system. Carter favors a fair tax system, meaning that
he wants to eliminate all tax deductions. Achieving this simplification would require some method of taxing all income on a
percentage scale. Carter does not want his taxation system to be discouraging to big business, however. He wants to reform
taxation in such a way that these businesses would not be encouraged to locate plants abroad.

Carter’s plan on conservation and usage of energy in the United States has been revealed and misunderstood all over the
country. It is extremely complex, the work of a man who helped Admiral Rickover develop the nuclear submarine. Basically, Carter
expects to enforce a mandatory limit on the importation of foreign oil. Energy supplies to the states would be strictly
allocated by the national government. Domestic oil prices would be kept below those of the OPEC nations. Carter would not
tolerate another Arab oil embargo. He says he would “declare all-out economic war” if such a thing occurred.

He supports federal spending on transportation, health, and environmental work to create jobs. He promises jobs for everyone who wants
work. He encourages a stimulated economy with higher production of goods and a resultant increase in jobs. A national minimum
income would be provided; those able to work would be given a chance to earn the minimum income. Others would
receive it as a benefit from the government. These welfare recipients would be treated with respect, suggests Carter.

Carter supports the ERA and attempted to get it passed in Georgia. It failed there, but Carter hopes to see
it passed soon. Carter is a man of chameleon personality. His election in Georgia was engineered by a Carter in
shirt sleeves, calling his opponent, the aristocratic and wealthy Carl Sanders, “cuff-links Carl.” The man running for president is the
friendly peanut farmer and nuclear physicist. Carter is actually neither. With crowds and while he is campaigning, Carter is all
smiles, a candidate who courts news conferences and volunteers information. An open man who has nothing to fear presents himself
to the people. In transit between crowds, Carter is cool and aloof. He is a man of few words who
never gives and prefers not to receive compliments. No one has yet answered the question, “Who is Jimmy Carter?” All
that is certain is that the man wants to be President. He has been quoted as saying that before he
decided to run, he sat down and outlined the plusses and minuses of all the other candidates. “When I was
finished, I could tell I was the winner by a mile,” he said.
