the davidsonian

January 16, 1976

“WHAT NOW, COACH?”: girls’ cave appearance
IMAC basketball, a rare treat, indeed!

By KIRK COMBE and THOM BLACKWOOD

Do you ever pause to wonder why you are at Davidson, or why you’re on earth, or why Davidson is on earth, or why we write a report of meaningless IMAC competition? If you do, you’re a fool.

The board is up, the divisions are set, and IMAC basketball is underway. Basketball, besides academics of course, is the axle around which the wheels, and spokes, and rims of life here at Davidson revolve. For this reason, IMAC basketball has become increasingly important these last two years.

Not only is it important to participate in IMAC basketball, but winning is everything. This season the IMAC champion earns a berth in the Southeastern Regionals of the National IMAC tournament (speaking of which, the young-looking Corey Mean will be unable to aid his IFT team this Thursday night as he must miss the game for babysitting duties; a twenty-five dollar fine seems reasonable).

And speaking of fines, an even stiffer fine awaits the IMAC team that subs its first string with two minutes left while up by twenty points and presses (right, High Point?). Like three consecutive nights with a rabid library rat.

And speaking of substituting, what is to be done with a certain white-haired egomaniac (no, not Ed Farrell) who is playing his subs while sitting his players? (Right, Bo?)

In regular game action not much of anything has been going on. All of the top-ranked teams have been mediocre, while the lesser teams have definitely been lesser teams.

Speaking of lesser teams, the freshman-burdened Davidson Mildcats are providing an excellent example for all B-league teams this season. But, with no upperclassmen players available to him, Mild D. Catte has been forced to use almost exclusively the newcomers, thus providing an excellent excuse and an additional year on his contract to “work with my recruits.”

Nostalgia demands intelligent sports fans to recall when a bad year for the Mildcats was 18-9. But intelligence is at ebb tide this year in old Johnston Gym. The fans are there. Enough players are there. Where are the coaches?

Speaking of coaches, these reporters have repeatedly seen too many useless males coaching at the girls’ games. Beware of ulterior motives, unless you are into that sort of thing.

But now to the scores: 57-43, 49-40, 38-37 on a close one and a partial score at the half, 12. But that’s neither here nor there, c’est la guerre.

And speaking of Harry Krohn’s coaching credentials, who cares if you were a two-handed, second-string, set-shooting artist on Mr. Brickles’ high school team in Goof-Ball, Ohio? He does, however, have an excellent conception of navels which qualifies him as the perfect Mildcat “big man” coach.

Now that nothing is sacred, we only want to say ‘Pick up on this.” James, it’s all up to you.

ROCK
Grateful Dead
Curtis Mayfield
Bette Midler
Eric Clapton
J. Geils Band
Sha Na Na
Three Dog Night
Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young

BEST OF STRAUSS
— Beloved Waltzes, Polkas and Overtures —
Eduard Strauss and his orchestra $6.98
Three record set

JAZZ
Yusef Lateef
Jimmy Witherspoon
Dave Brubeck
Ramsey Lewis
Miles Davis
Duke Ellington
John Coltrane
Cannonball Adderley

VIRGIL FOX: IN CONCERT
The organist of the 70's performs Bach
$6.98
Three record set

CLASSICAL BLUES — FOLK LABELS
Maurice Abravanel, Utah Symphony
William Steinberg, Pittsburgh Symphony
Maurice Andre
Alfred Brendel
Andres Segovia
London Symphony Orchestra
Sylvia Marlowe
and many others

BEETHOVEN: NINE SYMPHONIES — Complete
William Steinberg conducts Pittsburgh Symphony
Seven record set $14.98

HANDEL: MESSIAH — Complete
Sir Adrian Boult and the London Philharmonic Choir and Orchestra
Three record set $6.98

BRAHMS: COMPLETE SYMPHONIES
Featuring Sir Adrian Boult, Leopold Stokowski, Houston Symphony, William Steinberg
Four record set $8.98

JULIAN BREAM: THE CLASSICAL GUITAR
Works of Bach, De Falla, Villa-Lobos, Sor, Turina, Torroba — Julian Bream, guitar
Three record set $6.98

THE BAROQUE TRUMPET AND HORN AT THEIR FINEST
Maurice Andre, Adolf Scherbaum
Five record set $9.98

DENT STORE