January 16, 1976. The Davidsonian 5— McCormac speaks out on tenure

By EARL MACCORMAC
Professor of Philosophy

"Tenure" provokes as much controversy as any other word in higher education today, for many students, faculty, administrators, trustees, and
the public-at-large believe tenure to be one of the major impediments to improvements in teaching and learning. These critics view
tenure as unwarranted job security employed by many faculty members to protect their own complacence and incompetence. Defenders answer by
pointing out that tenure was developed to protect the academic freedom of professors and that without security from the threat
of economic pressures, researchers and teachers would not be as free to proclaim the truth. But does tenure fulfill its
purpose of protecting academic freedom or has it become an instrument that thwarts creativity by protecting the incompetent? I shall
attempt to explore this question and a number of other related issues in a series of four articles by considering
(1) some facts of tenure; (2) the relation of tenure to academic freedom; (3) the relation between tenure and faculty
evaluation; and (4) religious restrictions upon tenure.

Some Facts of Tenure

A faculty member normally receives tenure from the governing body of an institution after seven years of full-time teaching. If
the professor has taught elsewhere, he may be granted tenure after four years of full-time teaching at the new institution.
Notice that a faculty member who will be denied tenure must be given at least one full year in advance
if the professor has more than a one-year contract. During the seven or four-year period, professors usually are appointed for
periods of one, two, or three years. Before tenure, at the end of any of these contractual periods, a faculty
member may be terminated with no reasons given by the institution. The latter was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court
in the Roth Case in 1972 (see AAUP Bulletin, Autumn, 1972, pp. 267-278). By contrast, a faculty member with tenure
must be given reasons for his dismissal and is entitled to a hearing by a Due Process Board or Faculty
Hearing Committee legitimately constituted by the college or university. The procedures used in evaluating a professor for tenure vary from
institution to institution but generally embody criteria of teaching, scholarship, and service to the community. Some colleges and universities use
careful evaluation by departmental committees, including students, then evaluation by a divisional committee, and finally evaluation by the office of
a dean or a provost before final action by the trustees or regents. Other institutions are more haphazard and rely
primarily upon the judgment of the department chairman, the dean, or the president. Often faculty have little knowledge of what
constitutes criteria for tenure. How many articles must they publish? Of what quality? How will their teaching be evaluated? What
constitutes community service? In a limited tenure system, will exceptions be made to the limitations upon the number of positions
open for tenure?

The Relation of Tenure to Academic Freedom

Tenure and academic freedom are inextricably linked for ideally tenure exists solely to protect the professor's right to proclaim the
truth from economic sanctions. Through careful study and research, a professor may come upon insights in his field that are
unpopular to the general public, or to his students, or to the administration of his college or university, and tenure
guarantees his right to proclaim this truth in his classroom and in print. With tenure, he cannot be fired for
such pronouncements nor can his salary be infringed by cuts or the overt lack of regular increases. If fired, he
can go to a federal court and sue his university for a violation of academic freedom and a breach of
his contract. He can demand an investigation from the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). The United States Supreme Court
has recognized de facto tenure in the Sinderman Case in 1972 (See AAUP Bulletin, Autumn, 1972, pp. 267-278). If the
charge be found affirmed, the Courts can require back pay and reinstitution, and the AAUP will publicly censure the institution.

Now let us consider a few misconceptions. Tenure and academic freedom do not protect the right of a professor to
speak on any issue but only those related to his academic field. When he speaks outside of his field, he
speaks under the protection of freedom of speech just like any other citizen; he cannot invoke institutional protection. Nor can
a professor utilizing improper scholarly methodology speak on a controversial issue in his field; he must employ research methods generally
accepted by his colleagues in that field. Tenured professors can be fired for (1) gross moral turpitude; (2) dereliction of
duty, including incompetence; and (3) bona fide financial exigency. Few tenured professors are ever dismissed under (1), some are dismissed
under (2), but the largest number of tenured faculty members are dismissed under (3) when enrollments fall, or an institution
decides to abolish an entire school because of financial emergency. When faculty are terminated for financial reasons, those without tenure
go first and financial reasons cannot be used as a smokescreen to cover removal for other reasons. The latter happened
in the case of Bloomfield College in New Jersey where thirteen faculty members were...financial grounds. “Eleven of them had tenure;
and shortly after their termination, replacements were hired, and the president admitted his dislike for tenure and its protection of
dead wood on the faculty. Assisted by the AAUP, the dismissed faculty went to federal court and sued the college
for violation of academic freedom and breach of contract. Eventually, their suit was sustained by a U.S. Court of Appeals,
and the college was ordered to reinstate them even though the college had sought bankruptcy. (See AAUP Bulletin, Autumn, 1974,
pp. 320-330. This report carries the case through the Superior Court only. Later, a U.S. Court of Appeals sustained the
decision.) The Bloomfield College case has been widely reported and seems to stand as a landmark case exemplifying misuse of
financial exigency as an instrument to oust faculty with tenure.

The Relation between Tenure and Faculty Evaluation

Perhaps the most controversial reason for dismissal under tenure has been that of ‘dereliction of duty.’ We might all agree
that a professor's failure to meet his classes regularly, without some adequate cause like sickness, would constitute dereliction of duty.
But how can one measure incompetence? At the extreme, a professor who does not know the leading journals in his
field could be considered incompetent, but few academics like those exist. How about those who do not keep up in
their fields: How does one measure that? Failure to read any new books or any journals regularly? Few professors fit
that category. How about failure to publish any articles in his field? Even universities that demand publication to acquire tenure
would not agree that failure to publish constitutes incompetence. Another extreme might be the universal condemnation of the effectiveness of
a professor as a teacher, his inability to communicate agreed upon by all of his students. But again, how many
professors fit that category? A few professors have been dismissed for incompetence but the difficulty in deciding criteria for competence
leads many to abandon the effort to weed out incompetence. What may be adjudged competent in one institution may be
adjudged incompetent in another. There is agreement, however, that competence should be judged by peers in a man’s field and
not by outsiders.

Religious Restrictions upon Tenure

Can a college or university impose restrictions of religious belief as a condition for tenure? According to the 1940 Standards
of Tenure adopted by the AAUP and the American Association of Colleges, institutions may impose requirements of religious convictions for
tenure. When the 1940 Standards were adopted, a large number of colleges and universities were affiliated with churches and this
restriction was permitted so that this large number of institutions would embrace the system of tenure proposed by the AAUP.
Fewer and fewer church-related colleges employ this restriction; many of Davidson’s sister institutions like Southwestern-at-Memphis do not require such a
restriction, and during the last ten years a great number of Catholic colleges have dropped such requirements. Those who oppose
such a rule feel that it violates the very nature of academic freedom by restricting freedom of inquiry by imposing
a specific doctrinal belief. Those defending it argue that at the time of employment prospective professors are told of the
restriction, and among the plurality of colleges and universities, a church-related college will maintain a distinctive character by this restriction
upon tenure. Within that special character, professors are still free to pursue and proclaim the findings of their research.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Fund-filled Christmas gives Morton a shocking surprise

To The Editor:

A lack of Christmas spirit pervaded and haunted my own spirits the few weeks prior to Christmas break my Freshman
and Sophomore years--Not so this year. I witnessed an unusual and pleasant surprise. I found myself becoming involved in the
Day-Care Center fund drive, which in spite of the short notice and sudden appearance actually had potential as an organized
effort. Working closely with John McArthur and Rush Otey I began to realize the raw strength of a proportionately small
group of people involved in a viable task. Sacrificing time and GPA’s (after all that’s all that counts--right?) we gathered
volunteers and enthusiastic momentum. But my interest is not in acquiring pity as a suffering servant of the school. Mine
is a note of thankfulness and gratitude to those who actively showed that they cared. I became disheartened more than
once as I began to realize what utter fools we were making of ourselves. The idea of pulling off a
$2,500 fund drive in the space of four days was in itself ridiculous. My own roommate burdened by the incessant
ringing of the phone and constant complaints volunteered her own services. By the last day of the drive it appeared
I had more help than I ever needed--and $476 over the total. $2976.00. Amazed, shocked, overwhelmed? Any one of these
would express my reaction. My faith in the college community has not necessarily been revived, but my faith in concerned
individuals has indeed been greatly bolstered. I give heartfelt thanks for those who actively took part in the way of
time or money (hopefully both), and hope that they did more than simply give of themselves “until it hurt”--rather that
they gave of themselves until it caused them to rejoice.

-Katherine Morton ’77
Davidson College
