October 1, 1976

Bisons stampede past Davidson

By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

Davidson football fans leaving Richardson Field Saturday afternoon were talking about the Davidson defensive unit. And they were saying good
things about it.

The Wildcats had lost again, this time to Bucknell 16-0, but they had exhibited an ability to get tough with
their backs to the wall.

Three times the Cats defenders stopped Bison offensive drives inside the Davidson 20-yard line. Bucknell was unable to generate a
single touchdown march of any length, and all sixteen Bison points resulted from offensive breakdowns.

After a fumble recovery at the Davidson 7, Bucknell took it in for six in three plays. The point-after try
was good and the Bisons led 7-0 at halftime.

Late in the second half another Cat fumble was lost at the Davidson 20. Again, Bucknell took advantage of the
break and chalked up a touchdown.

Davidson took the kickoff out to the 15, lost eight yards back to the 7, and tried to punt from
the end zone. For the second time in two weeks the punting unit broke down on punt protection, and it
was costly.

The punter managed to recover the blocked punt for a safety and avoided another Bison touchdown.

Offensively, the Cats were little better than last week, managing only 175 yards total offense to Bucknell’s 314. The Cats
fumbled seven times and lost five, as well as allowing the blocked punt.

This Saturday, the Wildcats have an open date and follow with an away game at Randolph-Macon on October 9.

BOBBY McCARTHY (13) dives behind Craig Pyles (45) while fighting for yards against Bucknell Saturday.

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

The Davidson College soccer team suffered a pair of losses last week, but Coach Chip Stone is quite optimistic about
the remainder of the season. "We played much better defensively against North Carolina. We are starting to work together better,
too," he said.

The Wildcats lost to Madison 6-1 in Madison’s beautiful astroturf stadium before a crowd estimated at about a thousand. Mental
lapses defensively seemed to be the team’s downfall.

Highlights of the game included a remarkable diving save by goalie Doug Schuessler, which received a standing ovation from the
crowd, and the goal late in the second half by striker Dave Patton.

Two days later the Wildcats traveled to Chapel Hill for a match with the University of North Carolina, who in
Coach Stone’s opinion is the toughest team on Davidson’s schedule.

After holding them scoreless in most of the first half, the Wildcats were eventually defeated by a score of 3-0.
The team looked better both offensively and defensively. Heartbreaking was the superb shot by midfielder D.C. Augustine, called back because
of a hands ball on a Davidson player.

Coach Stone feels the team is going to get better. "I think we are going to surprise a lot of
people when they look at our 0-3 record. We are going to win some games this year."

The soccer team plays a pair of games this weekend, both important Conference games, against William and Mary in Williamsburg
and VMI in Lexington. The Wildcats play their first home game against the University of North Carolina at Charlotte on
October 6.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

Oct. 2 The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz
Oct. 8 Patton
Oct. 22 Nashville
Oct. 29 Race with the Devil
Nov. 5 Wind and the Lion
Nov. 12 3 Days of the Condor
Nov. 19 Mel Brooks’ “Twelve Chairs”

RATED R. UNDER 17 NOT ADMITTED WITHOUT PARENT. ID’S WILL BE CHECKED.

Electronic Service and Sales
173 N. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

WORLD FAMOUS KITCHEN
PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
PARMIGIANA DISHES
GAY 90 ATMOSPHERE
596-0256
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.
