November 5, 1976

By DAVE SCHMIDT
Staff Writer

The past two weeks have seen a diverse selection of albums in the mail to WDAV. The following albums, while
not always the best of those received, cover a wide spectrum of rock music.

Led Zeppelin
The Song Remains the Same
Swan Song

Led Zeppelin has been turning out albums for nine years, but this is their first attempt at a live album.
The mood of the album and the listener is set with the opening act, “Rock and Roll.” This merges with
“Celebration Day” to form a seven-minute opening set. The other two cuts on this side are an excellent rendition of
“The Song Remains the Same” and “The Rain Song.”

The second side consists of a 27-minute version of “Dazed and Confused.” In the movie from which this soundtrack was
taken, the visual antics of Robert Plant during this sequence are supposed to be amazing. While the recorded version of
“Dazed and Confused” obviously suffers from not having the visuals to go along with it, it is almost for the
better not to. This leaves it up to you to imagine what is going through Plant’s mind.

The third side opens with, as Powell Slayleter puts it, Zeppelin’s most sinister song, “No Quarter.” The side concludes with
the Zeppelin standard, “Stairway to Heaven.”

The fourth side consists of “Moby Dick,” in which we are finally able to hear the famous (infamous?) John Bonham
drum solo. Bonham’s work on Zeppelin’s previous albums has been an amateur drummer's nightmare, as he is always changing beats
and tempo where they are not supposed to be changed. The solo on this version is good, but obviously Bonham
could have done better. The album concludes the way it started, with another rocker, “Whole Lotta Love.”

The production quality of this album is excellent. While most bands seem to lose something when removed from the studio,
that is not the case with this album. While no live album can sound as good as one made in
a recording studio, this live album by Zeppelin is the closest thing I’ve heard to a studio sound in a
live album.

As for best cuts, all are excellent. I’m sure there will be some disgruntled Zeppelin fans over the songs selected
for this album. Personally, this writer would have preferred “Misty Mountain Hop” and “The Ocean.” But, you can’t appease the
masses all of the time.

Melissa Manchester
Help Is On The Way
Arista

Another long-awaited album, this latest effort by M.M. is a slight departure from her previous work. Gone is the emotional
inflection of “Bright Eyes.” In its place, one finds a more mellowed and professional sounding singer. Don’t get me wrong:
I still think M.M. is one of the best female vocalists around. However, her singing on this album is a
little too slick for me. I preferred her when she sang with emotion and wasn’t afraid to let go on
a jazzy number now and then.

The singing on this album reminds me of a night club singer who goes through his or her routine night
after night, with occasional flashes of brilliance. I hope this review is not too negative sounding—I urge everyone to buy
it, as the material is excellent. It’s just that I yearn for the Melissa of old wrenching out my heart
with her rendition of “Bright Eyes.”

Student writes elegy in a donut-less hole

Notice: The Mooresville Bakery announces a change in hours—5:30 am to 6 pm.
-Davidson Announcement Sheet

Where does one begin? How to eulogize a lost institution? Surely a second Coming is at hand... Hattie’s burns, the
Hub closes, Duff Bruce retires from IMAC, students enjoy Homecoming, Fireman returns... And now, and now, we have lost Grimm's.

I speak as one who knew the delights of the Mooresville Bakery intimately, and for some time. I made my
first Grimm’s run as a high school senior visiting Davidson. I suffered through my first case of Grimm disease (also
known as Grimm bowels, Grimm's fever, and Grimm’s runs) long before I ever cracked Abernathy-Langford. Many the time I have
known that rarest of pleasures, gift to mortals—the indescribable pleasure of having a “hot one,” glazed and fresh, slide soothingly
down the throat, only to make its amiable presence known again.Within a few hours. Ah, blessed were the all-nighters punctuated
by that desperate run to the villa of the Moores. The sight of the neon sign, the thirty-year-old wedding cake!
The Grimm baker himself would issue from that inferno (forbidden land to outsiders) where he toiled, stooped over, contriving the
best that man has baked and glazed. (We were told that he was hunch-backed from working in coal mines, but
the select know the truth!) Taking our orders, he would execute our wishes with an attitude many took as hostility,
but was actually the detached indifference of the artist!

This is Paul Brown’s pick of the rising new artists. In case you don’t know who Paul Brown is, let
me wander for a moment and explain. Paul sits in an office on Fifth Avenue in New York, listening to
releases of new bands from record companies. From these, he will select two or three that he will send out
with his recommendation. While they may not prove to always be the biggest sellers, they always contain excellent music. This
album is no exception.

McGrath is a country boy from Canada, if there is such a thing. He sings of red-necks in bars, whom
I didn’t believe existed outside of the U.S. His music is country in flavor, but not of the Conway Twitty
nature that repulses many. Instead, McGrath reminds one of Danny O’Keefe or Michael Stanley. The music is good, McGrath has
a fine voice, and the lyrics are often timed humorous. He is able to capture the flavor of sitting around
and getting drunk or stoned, shooting the shit, and transpose it into musical form. All in all, an excellent album.
Don’t be afraid to ask for it if you don’t see it in the stacks of the next record store
you're in.

Sonny Fortune
Waves of Dreams
A&M

Fortune’s second album is on the Horizon label, and it is better than the first effort. An excellent laid-back jazzy
album, Fortune displays talent on a range of instruments, including the flute, alto, and tenor saxophones. The overall tone of
this music is Latin, often times sounding somewhat like Chick Corea and Flora Purim. But while the hint of Corea
is there, the music is definitely Fortune’s. The title cut, “In Waves of Dreams” evokes feelings of just that. The
music just seems to flow along, carrying you along on the crests of the waves (I should be an English
major). If you don’t have any jazz in your record collection, consider this album, along with the rest of the
Horizon series.

Tower of Power
Ain't Nothin’ Stoppin’ Us Now
Columbia

Didn’t want to discriminate from the disco sound, seeing as it has been so prevalent in the past few years,
thus the inclusion of this album. If you like funk, this is the album to buy. This band really gets
into their music, and you can almost see the brass section doing a choreographed dance step while recording this. The
sound is definitely disco, so if you hate it as much as some of us do, steer clear of this
album. But if not, check it out, because outside of the Brecker Brothers, this is the classiest disco to be
found.

It is with a deep sense of loss that I recall my last visit to Grimm’s. The very last night
they were open I was there with several companions. The woman at the counter was polite (all form and artifice—but
where was the soul of the Bakery?). As we fumbled through our coins and bills, she remarked that from now
on, it was a daylight-only operation. We looked up, stunned, barely able to speak. In a typical understatement, one of
us said (holding back the tears), “You’re gonna destroy the sanity of a lotta students.” Whither goest thou, nocturnal cream
puff? 3 am chocolate chips and milk, I mourn thee. Oft-opened screen door, portal to bliss! Oh, immortal hot-one, no
more! Ah Grimm's, ah humanity!

We marveled, from visit to visit, how prices would wander seemingly without pattern; a few wise ones fathomed that the
charge and hair length were often in direct proportion—you were teaching us about life and the world, worthy baker; were
we listening?
