October 29, 1976

The Davidsonian

District termed ‘backward’:

[Continued from page 1]

They’re speaking for themselves and not for the district. And bear in mind that there are a lot of people
who didn’t sign the ad. I don’t want anyone to draw the conclusion that all my former colleagues on the
faculty are against me.”

McKelway said that he was very pleased with the large number of faculty who did sign the petition. “Consider how
difficult it is for 50 percent of any group of people to be willing to subscribe to a rather detailed
list of charges against a candidate. I think the petition was a success.”

He cited four main reasons as to why some faculty did not sign. “First, we have some faculty members who
are Republicans and approve of Martin’s legislative policies. Then a number of faculty members have a close personal relationship with
Martin and his family. Some of these disapprove of his conduct in Congress, but they don’t feel that they can
publicly attack him. Also, a few professors do not believe that it is proper for a faculty member to make
such a public statement because someone who might disagree could take a less than positive view of the college. Finally,
we did not approach all faculty members. I would bet that there were eight to ten more people who could
have signed had they been contacted.”

Martin said that he was surprised by a couple of names on the petition. “You have to regret it when
some of your friends join in this sort of thing, but they are entitled to their own opinions. I guess
it kind of transcends friendship,” he said.

The Charlotte Observer endorsed Martin. McKelway characterized the endorsement as “one of the most confusing and disappointing editorials I’ve ever
seen in the Observer.” He said that he could have understood the Observer not endorsing Goodman because he has not
been successful in crystallizing the issues and his stance on the issues, but he felt that the newspaper should not
have endorsed either candidate: “The Charlotte Observer is generally a rather thoughtful and liberal-minded newspaper. It’s incredible that it can
endorse a Congressman with one of the worst voting records in Washington,” he said.

McKelway cited several nonpartisan organizations such as Common Cause and the League of Women Voters, which rate the voting records
of members of Congress. Most such organizations, according to McKelway, give Martin a very low rating. “About the only groups
that give him a high rating are groups like the American Manufacturing Association and several defense organizations,” he said.

Martin explained that he had the responsibility to hold the line on spending. “I would like to be able to
vote for every well-meaning bill that comes along, but we have to consider the budget deficit. The people who signed
that petition would like to pretend it’s not inflationary, but it is. I believe it’s irresponsible to pour billions of
dollars into programs. These people want these programs for two reasons. One, they’re against me and two, they want to
see the government spend more money. Most people in the district are tired of the government spending their money,” he
said.

In response to the question of Martin’s representing the views of the ninth district, Epes said, “I’d say that he
votes the people’s opinions... but that doesn’t always produce wise votes.”

McKelway added, “The fact that the ninth district, which is mainly the Charlotte metropolitan area, tolerates Martin’s voting record means
that we are one of the most backward and morally dull districts around. I would have to say that in
this respect the ninth district is more materialistic and interested in economic gain than any other area. We have problems
actually getting candidates to run because they won’t give up their lucrative law practices or businesses,” he said.

Martin pointed out that the advertisement represented mostly a difference of opinion on the issues.Part of the Davidson professors. “This
is a fairly conservative district and that group of faculty is fairly liberal,” he said. Martin also was distressed by
the fact that the ad misrepresented his position in respect to Richard Nixon. “The part of the petition that claims
I obstructed the investigation of Nixon is misleading. I voted for the investigation by the House Judiciary Committee. I voted
to give that committee subpoena powers. The only thing I did was an unlimited budget for the committee. And all
this was fairly early, too,” he added. “I think it’s a rather poor comparison for Congress that we Republicans voted
for the investigation of Nixon but that we can’t get the Democrats to do the same investigating into their own
misuse of Congressional funds,” he said.

McKelway blamed the ninth district’s conservative tone on the religious, educational, and professional leaders in the district. “I don’t think
churches and educational institutions have done a very good job of educating the people on where their interests lie. So
the businessmen, doctors, and the wealthy vote for the man who votes in their interests and Martin’s record is certainly
for them.”

Chemistry Professor Ralph Gable, who signed the petition, characterized Martin’s voting record in the following manner. “Money needs for the
people he questions, but military money needs he doesn’t give a second thought to.” Gable said that he’s known Martin
for seventeen years but he would “rather have someone else as my Congressman.” “If enough people become concerned there will
be a change in the political climate and then maybe someone can challenge Martin this year for the first time,”
McKelway concluded.

RICHARDSON SENTELLE
David Tinkler
Rob Holmes

SGA visitation schedule
Boy Holmes
Bob Lapple, Rob Holmes
Carter Todd
Bob Lapple
Hans Watford
David Tinkler
Hans Watford
Jim Clark and Tony Snow
Mrs. Taine Alison
Dana English
Nancy Catron
Dana English
Joe Logan
Lynne Keener
Kevin Taylor
Lynn Langley
Phil Caine
Lynne Keener, John Stiefel
Kevin Taylor
Bill Peeples
Carol Connor
Percy Badham
Bill Peeples
Clark Candler
Bruce Brown, Randy Haynes, Ralph Yielding
Mrs. Taine Alison
Will Miller
Bruce Brown, Randy Haynes, Lynn Langley
Phil Caine
Rick Rauck

Hedrick tells PIRG
[Continued from page 1]

Mooresville law which is carried out in a lousy way. OSHA picks on 40 percent of businesses which employ seven
percent of the employees.” PIRG is continuing its work in prison reform. Hedrick wonders why “North Carolina is rated thirty-eighth
in per capita crime yet is first in prison population.” Here, on November 3, there will be another “prison luncheon”
with guest Roy Rogers, program director of the Huntersville prison unit, to give listeners a first-hand account of the North
Carolina penal system.

In many areas of equal importance, NC PIRG is working in less depth. For example, they want reform in the
juvenile system but have accomplished little. Juveniles in the North Carolina juvenile system lack the few meager rights granted to
adults. On the environmental scene, NC PIRG wants to investigate the environmental repercussions of crop spraying. Little is known about
the possible effects of many varieties of pesticides on man.

Come browse
Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard
John Mack & Son
Only Six Miles North — Mooresville

First Union National
DAVIDSON
Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208
