the davidsonian March 26, 1976 —§16

Winkler speaks his heart and mind

By Professor of English CHARLES E. LLOYD

In these forty-odd poems, a man speaks his heart and mind in his own authentic voice, to his own music, and to our lasting joy and benefit. Winkler is by no means optimistic; not what the Germans call lebensbejahend (“saying ‘yes’ to life”), he tends rather to say “Yes, but--”, or “Sometimes yes.” In fact, the only “yes” in the collection, followed immediately with “by damn,” comes from a dumb cousin; and the “no’s” and “nope’s,” both written and implied, are thick. Winkler knows how—and what—to hate. And still, the effect on us as we read is tonic and joyous. Personally, I have not experienced any utterance that gave me so much hope for this country since Adlai Stevenson’s acceptance speech at Chicago in 1952. If Stevenson could have read these poems! If Grant had been drinking at Appomattox!

Only a man of learning could have written what Winkler has; but he savors the vigor of rural speech as well as the glory of scholarship. The poems bring us close to trout streams, coves, bad girls and good ones, logging railroads, beach resorts, country jails, family, friends, motels, popskull drinkers, hound dogs, young sex, and great good jokes; and nowhere can we say “Winkler picked this up from So-and-so.” He loves the best poets in the world and derives his tone from nobody. He loves the Southern highlands and their people; yet he never appears as “the mountainy singer,” never puts on ethnicity. What he does is to speak in the great highland tradition, whose excellence it is never to say more than is meant. The result is that wherever we read these poems becomes for the time the Free State of Franklin; and sometimes Quebec or Bamberg or Bonn. For Winkler is no provincial.

I would wrong these poems to call them, as they are, the best I have read by a living North Carolinian; I have no hesitation in ranking him with Randall Jarrell and Theodore Roethke. His rhythms are shifting, subtle, surprising, and always euphonious. He uses few rhymes, almost all of them playful. The result is somewhere between plainsong—although Winkler would deny it bitterly—and sung speech; it is the work of a skilled metrist and musician. But it is behind the words that we sense the music in his mind; the fun of Homer and Jethro, of Hoffnung, and of Mozart, and the profundity of Beethoven.

The book is physically beautiful. A former Davidsonian, Dr. Moreland Hogan of Chapel Hill, scholar, poet, and bookman, is responsible. In his Photocomposition Service, he has the only complete set of Monophoto typefonts in the western hemisphere.

Winkler’s great triumph is to have written with deep feeling and still to have laughed at himself; to speak love without sentimentality; to rage without malice; to innovate in language without sounding precious; to tell suffering without self-pity; to worship without religiosity; and to be himself without self-advertisement. May he live long to bless us—and cuss us.

Lest any think I have allowed personal friendship to sway my critical judgment,Let me state: (1) I may yet sue Mr. Winkler for the aspersions he has cast, these fifteen years, on my singing; and (2) if he doesn’t quit hounding me, I never will pay him the thirty-seven cents he lent me in 1963.

Friday, March 26, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
All Day - Photography Workshop Banquet Hall
10:40 am - Humanities 123 Film: "Potemkin" Perkins Auditorium
1 pm - Golf: Furman Invitational Greenville, S.C.
2 pm - Tennis: Ohio University Davidson
7 pm - American Contract Bridge League Morrison Room
8 pm - Pop Film: "Murder on the Orient Express" Love Auditorium

Saturday, March 27, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am - College Republicans State Convention Morrison Room and Executive Committee Meeting
1 pm - Tennis: N.C. State Davidson
1 pm - Baseball: VMI Davidson
2 pm - Women’s Tennis: Clemson Davidson
3 pm - Women’s JV Tennis: Charlotte Latin Charlotte
TBA - Sailing: UNC Henderson, N.C.
9 pm - Scabbard and Blade Military Ball 900 Room

Sunday, March 28, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
All Day - Spring Celebration Davidson Campus
2 pm - Rugby: Greensboro Davidson
6 pm - Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
8 pm - Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room

Monday, March 29, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
9 am - Marine Recruits Conversation Pit
2:30 pm - Tennis: Pfeiffer Misenheimer, N.C.
3 pm - Women’s Tennis: South Carolina Columbia, S.C.
8 pm - Artist Series: Branko Krsmanovich Love Auditorium Chorus of Yugoslavia

Tuesday, March 30, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am - Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room

Friday, Mar. 26
8 & 10:30 P.M. - D.C. POP Films Presents: "Murder on the Orient Express"

1 pm - Track: Washington and Lee Lexington, Va.
3 pm - Women’s Tennis: Pfeiffer Misenheimer, N.C.
3 pm - Baseball: Furman Davidson
6:30 pm - Meal for World Hunger DEPT
7 pm - Worship Service DCPC
7:30 pm - Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Perkins Auditorium Safety Course

Wednesday, March 31, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am - Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Lg. Conf. Room
2 pm - Tennis: Harvard Davidson
2 pm - Women’s JV Tennis: Presbyterian Davidson
4 pm - Films: "Hong Kong Symphony" and Honors Center "High in the Himalayas"
8 pm - Fine Film: "Pygmalion" Love Auditorium
TBA - Entertainment: Michael Lewis 900 Room

Thursday, April 1, 1976
All Day - Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am - Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
10 am - Humanities Film: "Horseman Pass By" Perkins Auditorium
2 pm - Tennis: Harvard (Practice) Davidson
3 pm - Women’s Tennis: Radcliffe Davidson
3 pm - Baseball: Pfeiffer Davidson
TBA - Entertainment: Michael Lewis 900 Room

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

First Union National
DAVIDSON