```
the davidsonian

April 2, 1976

Chorus presents climactic program

By JAYNE REICH
Staff Writer

The Branko Krsmanovich Chorus of Belgrade gave an exhilarating performance in Love Auditorium on Monday night that I wished more
people in the college and community had had the good fortune to attend.

Their music ranged chronologically from the 14th century to the present and included a variety of styles and nationalities, notably
an ‘Alleluia’ by Tchaikovsky, ‘Salangadou’—a Creole lament, a Negro spiritual, some Russian folk songs, ‘Missa Criolla’—a modern Spanish piece, and
two Renaissance compositions sung in French and Italian.

The first two parts of the program in fact included only two Yugoslav arrangements. I particularly liked ‘Stycheron to Stefan
Dechansky,’ written in unmetered time in the 14th century, and sung in Old Serbian by a male soloist with the
chorus providing the background.

For the ‘Missa Criolla’ sung in Spanish, a variety of instruments were used including guitars, accordion, bass, clarinet, and several
percussion instruments. The composition, performed in numerous parts all intermingling, provided a climactic ending before the intermission.

For the third part of the program all 52 singers returned to the stage in intensely colorful beautiful national costumes.
The costumes represented all of the states within Yugoslavia, and the colors and textures set the mood for the lightheartedness
of the rest of the performance.

The audience seemed to respond more excitedly to this second nationalistic segment. Though afterwards, Bogdan Churchin—a member of the chorus—told
me he thought the applause had been quite steady throughout. He himself preferred the classical part of the program and
said that they rarely performed the national songs at home in Yugoslavia.

Nevertheless, the Kolo music (for the traditional Kolo folk dance—very lively), the folk tunes, and finally a suite of choral
and instrumental selections roused the audience into warm applause and finally a standing ovation.

The Chorus, named after a Yugoslav hero, has toured throughout Europe and is currently at the end of its sixth
American tour which began in January—consisting of 80 performances in 95 days. Before the group returns home they will sing
at the United Nations headquarters and in Carnegie Hall.

The members of the Chorus represented a wide variety of professions and fields of study. Some had sung in the
first American tour in 1961 and for other younger members this was the first. They seemed quite relaxed during the
reception following the performance and there seemed to be a sincere exchange of mutual appreciation with those in the audience
who were able to go to the Morrison Room afterwards.

Apparently the Chorus has had a successful tour as they have been asked to return to the United States next
year. If all their performances have been as fine as the one on Monday night then I can see why.

Bandwagon

Friday, April 2, 1976

-Leon Venable

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

1 pm Golf: Appalachian and Lander Charlotte Country Club

2 pm Outdoor Music and Beer: Vassar Front of Union, Clements Band, Red, White and Blue Grass, Danker Mt. Valley
Boys, Harlan White and John Stanfield in case of rain 8 pm in Banquet Hall

8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: ‘Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams’ Love Auditorium

8 pm Michael Lewis 900 Room

Saturday, April 3, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

10 am Tennis: Citadel Charleston, S.C.

1 pm Baseball: Richmond Davidson

1 pm Track: Western Carolina Relays Cullowhee, N.C.

2 pm Rugby: Duke ‘B’ Davidson

8 pm Michael Lewis 900 Room

POEMS WANTED

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS is compiling a book of poems. If you have written a poem and would
like our selection committee to consider it for publication, send your poem and a self-addressed stamped envelope to:

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS
614 - 1st Union Bldg.
Winston Salem, N.C. 27101

Sunday, April 4, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

6 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room

8 pm Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Conf. Room

Monday, April 5, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

1:30 pm Tennis: Furman Davidson

3 pm Baseball: Citadel Davidson

8 pm BLACK WEEK: Speaker—Imamu Amiri Baraka Love Auditorium

Tuesday, April 6, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room

1 pm Golf: Lander Greenwood, S.C.

2 pm Tennis: Johnson C. Smith Davidson

2 pm Women’s Tennis: UNC-Chapel Hill ‘B’ Davidson

7 pm Worship Service DCPC

7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Safety Course Perkins Auditorium

8 pm BLACK WEEK: Tommy Scott Young—Poetry and Jazz Concert 900 Room

8 pm Army War College Current Affairs Panel Phi Hall

Wednesday, April 7, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

10 am Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Conf. Room

4 pm Film: ‘Horseman, Pass By’ Honors College

8 pm BLACK WEEK: D. C. Repertory Dance Theater Love Auditorium

9 pm NC PIRG Large Conference Room

Thursday, April 8, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall

2 pm Tennis: Atlantic Christian Davidson

3 pm Women’s Tennis: Salem College Winston-Salem, N.C.

3 pm Baseball: Wake Forest Winston-Salem, N.C.

4:30 pm Open End on Bill of Rights Morrison Room

8 pm BLACK WEEK: Gospel Night DCPC

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams

Friday, Apr. 2
8 & 10:30 P.M.

Love Auditorium
$1.00
```
