4 | thedavidsonian April 23, 1976

Student groups confuse rights and responsibilities

Two unrelated occurrences: the faculty is still stewing over the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities and a student group
is waiting for enough members to show up so that they can have a meeting. The necessary students never come
so the crippled meeting becomes a series of bad jokes. The agenda cannot be followed, nothing can be voted on,
and nothing is decided. Somewhere rights and responsibilities have gotten confused. The right of the group to have a meeting
and to make decisions is in conflict with the right of the students to study, to attend the Drama Department’s
Spring play, or to goof off. The other students who expect the crippled group to program a social life for
them at Davidson College are having their rights infringed upon too. They elected officers to see that the student group
waiting for a quorum would work. These students hoped that something might be done at the meeting. Still, the faculty
labors on, reviewing the document that sets down student rights with their resultant responsibilities. Still, students who want their rights
as a programming board observed wait for the students who are seeking their rights as students to come to the
meeting. The resultant responsibilities on all sides hang.

We urge students who have involvement with student groups to accept their responsibilities. Just as there should be no more
crippled (and crippling) meetings, there should be no IMAC forfeits. The commitment to serving on a committee or acting as
a part of a group requires some astute scheduling of time but it is as important in the long run
as being protected from any other usurpation of rights through failed responsibilities.

- Davidson National Day

This Saturday, a joint Union Board-Student Government Association committee will sponsor a “Save the Davidson National Day”. This represents some
affirmative action of students on behalf of the arts at Davidson. If it is to be a success, there will
have to be wide student participation. The goal of the day is not just to raise money but is also
to display student interest. The DAVIDSONIAN urges that all students who have an interest in the arts at Davidson take
part in the day, either as participants or as spectators.

Father Hesburgh

Notre Dame University President and Davidson College Spring Convocation Speaker Theodore M. Hesburgh has been selected by his peers as
one of the most influential persons in America. According to a survey conducted by U.S. News and World Report, Hesburgh
ranks among the top five in the categories of Education and Religion. Hesburgh was rated more influential than Pope Paul
in Religion. He trailed Billy Graham.

The Davidsonian

Matthew Covington ................. Editor
Bill Chapman ....................... Managing Editor
Peter Overbey ....................... Business Manager
Orien Reid .......................... Photography Editor
Bill Milliken ......................... Production Manager
Paul Surovell ....................... Editorial Page Editor
Chuck Schofield ................... News Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall ... Sports Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ....... Features Editors
Bill Ragsdale ......................... Advertising Manager
Ellen Gilchrist ....................... Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid.At Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all
correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

More Spring Fever casualties

Letters to the Editor

Behrends blasts faculty

To the Editor:

As a few of you may have noticed, the Faculty Executive Committee has changed the schedule for next month’s exams.
Exams now start on Saturday, one day after classes end. The change has been made too late, without warning, without
regard to student opinion, and without sufficient reason or publicity. With exams only four weeks away, many of us have
already made plans for getting home or for having parents or friends to help us pack and leave; these plans
must now be changed. Even now, the administration has not seen fit to publicize the change; this newspaper has had
to take the responsibility.

The reason for the change is to provide the registrar’s office with an extra day to process grades. I’m sure
the registrar's office is busy, but is the time of a handful of employees more valuable than the time of
1200 students? Our time must not be worth much. Even more disgruntling is the way the decision was made. The
one member of the FEC I questioned knew nothing of the change. There was no warning, no chance for discussion
or input; only a sudden decree.

Only two weeks ago we turned out en masse and made clear our desire for a reading day before exams.
The strongest showing of political unity I’ve seen in my two years here seems to have been brushed aside by
a ruling body too busy and too indifferent to heed student opinion. I guess it’s too late to return exams
to their original schedule. I can only hope that future decisions are made more openly, more in advance, more democratically,
and with more regard for students.

William B. Behrends
Davidson College, ’78

Independence

To the Editor:

If you are bored by philosophy, stop here. I’m elaborating a philosophical observation I made in kindergarten (it won’t be
over anyone’s head): an academic institution can be detrimental to a person’s education, but only if the person allows it.
Growth by my definition is learning to take care of yourself. While self-caring equals independence, it never means self-sufficiency, but
rather an openness with others concerning your own needs. Caring for yourself means getting comfortable, doing the things you want,
getting the grades you want, getting the food, sleep, and exercise you want. Above all, it means accepting yourself, accepting
yourself to the point of taking action on what you learn about yourself—building your lifestyle around your own values and
not anyone else’s. Being responsible for our own care means whatever you choose to complain about, be depressed about, and
make excuses over are things you have chosen to hurt yourself with, for your own reasons. While many criticisms of
Davidson College are valid, including the one that says it tends to stifle creativity, in the long run we get
out of our four years here what we want—if our education is creative or meaningless, either way it is to
our own credit.

Margaret Hunter
Davidson College, ’78

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
