April 9, 1976

The Davidsonian

SD Soule defends weary committee

By WARREN SOULE
Staff Writer

The major program which has been conducted by the Senate in the past term, almost to the exclusion of any other business which could be considered by the students, is the life and death struggle with the Faculty Executive Committee over the Academic Calendar. This contest has been going on now for over two months, and various people from the Senate have gone before the Faculty Executive Committee on three different occasions. Tuesday night there was a march on the President’s house.

The Academic Calendar cannot satisfy everyone. This is the primary point which the students have not been told. The Faculty have complaints with the calendar also—married faculty wish school to start in August, unmarried later to extend the summer vacation, etc. There is no such thing as a perfect calendar.

The students have been presented with the following charges against the calendar, which, while they are not completely false, are on the pale of the truth. The students are told that student input was not considered, and that the students have had no consideration in the Calendar’s formulation. They have been told that they will have to leave home on New Year’s Day. They have been told that they will have no more reading days before exams. But, contrary to the first charge, student input was considered, and very carefully, by the Executive Committee. What the Senate really means is that the Executive Committee did not acquiesce to student demands—therefore the students were not consulted.

The Executive Committee did take into account student needs. They received Resolutions from the Senate on two different occasions, considered them and their reasons, and presented valid counter reasons. Teachers will not teach Saturday classes—and you know as well as I do that very few students will attend those classes which are taught. The Faculty Executive Committee has made changes to suit student demands in the past; examples include reduction of Saturday classes, longer vacations, four-day examination periods, and others—even the self-scheduled examination is a Faculty acquiescence to students.

Baskin went before the Faculty Executive Committee with Senate resolutions on three separate occasions. On each occasion he presented the same time-worn reasons—he presented not one new argument. He wasted both the Faculty’s time and his own.

Leave Home on New Year’s? Classes start on January 3. Reservations for airlines are not impossible when made far enough in advance. Roads are not hazardous when appropriate care and reasonable precautions are taken concerning both time and manner of departure. If a student feels that the roads would be too hazardous, he can miss the classes that Monday—it is his free choice.

There has only been one study day eliminated which would have any consequences—Fall Term. Vacation has been lengthened. Here, student dissatisfaction must be considered alongside administrative and Faculty inconvenience. There are still four days of exams. The only problem that perhaps has not been sufficiently considered has been the problem of Lab-Practicals on Tuesday before exams.

The Senate has sponsored the March on the White House. Where do we go from there? Burn it down? The Senate’s belligerency wins it no friends. The Faculty will not really change an insignificant thing like the Calendar, which rightfully deserves no more than fifteen minutes of discussion. This, what we are seeing now, is the proverbial mountain out of a molehill. The Senate deserves no special consideration beyond that given to the other groups in the College.community. But they have been given special consideration. It is to the Faculty Executive Committee’s credit that they allow the Senate to offer changes after the Calendar had been finalized. But the Senate keeps firing time-worn arguments again and again at the Committee, and the Committee has grown weary.

WDAV thefts harm student radio

To the Editor:

“Any student found guilty by the Student Hearing Committee or the Dean of Students of lying, cheating, or stealing—all honor offenses—is ordinarily suspended from the College.” (College Catalog, p. 270)

While most students are aware of the large number of books which are stolen from the library, many are not aware of the fact that a comparable number of records are stolen each year from WDAV. The staff makes an effort to suppress these thefts, but we cannot be in the studio every hour of the day that WDAV is on the air. Students do not realize the value of the records which are being stolen. WDAV receives better service from record companies than most college radio stations, and even some commercial stations. I know of several occasions during the year when WDAV received albums by top-name artists before commercial stations did in Charlotte, including WROQ. Almost all of the albums in WDAV’s stacks are “promotional” copies, which we receive free of charge from record companies. If we were to pay for all these albums, it would consume a major part of WDAV’s budget each year.

WDAV cannot afford these rip-offs any longer. In the past two weeks, five albums have been stolen. WDAV received the new Led Zeppelin album Friday morning, and by 11 o’clock Saturday morning it had been stolen. I had not placed the album in the stacks, because I knew it would be stolen immediately. Instead, it was stolen from the production studio where we were in the process of recording the album to prevent it being stolen. I realize that D.J.’s sometimes inadvertently get WDAV albums mixed in with their personal albums, and that albums are also often misfiled. But at least 90 percent of rip-offs are intentional, and these are the ones we must stop. Perhaps we need to change to a system of record filing many college stations are finding themselves forced to revert to because of the large number of stolen albums. These stations are filing records under lock-and-key in rooms separate from the studio. Records can only be checked out under the supervision of a staff member, and must be logged on a sign-out sheet. I would hate to see WDAV resort to a system such as this, but it may be the only feasible way to stop theft.

In closing, let me again remind all students that record thefts are Honor Code violations. Personally, I would not hesitate in prosecuting anyone found stealing albums, even if only one album. Sad as it is to say, perhaps the only way WDAV can stop record thefts is to kick someone out of school caught in the act. I hope we can avoid it.

Dave Schmidt
Davidson College

Fire the whole department

To the Editor:

Having seen the recent incompetence displayed in the hiring of a new head coach, I do not think it is the basketball coach only of the athletic department that should have been fired.

Earnie Church '78
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.