April 2, 1976

Netters stop Ohio, doubles improving

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

The Davidson College tennis team brought its record to 9-5-1 with two convincing victories and a disappointing defeat in the
last week of play.

The Wildcat netters crushed Ohio University 9-0 in a match played at Davidson Friday.

Coach Jeff Frank seemed pleased with the overall play, but was reserved in his comment. “We played better doubles, but
primarily we just have a better team.”

The Wildcats suffered a 1-8 setback in hosting North Carolina State University on Saturday.

The Wolfpack netters dominated the match with both strong singles and doubles play. The only bright spot for Davidson was
number four man Steve Holman who won his match 6-1, 6-3.

Coach Frank appeared disappointed in losing by such a wide margin, but alluded to the perennial problem Davidson has against
ACC competition. “They have scholarships and that makes a difference. They are just a much stronger team.”

The Wildcats bounced back to thrash Pfeiffer 9-0 Monday. Number one singles player Chip Bondurant played well in whipping Knug
Van Nostrand 6-3, 6-3.

Davidson hosts an always tough Harvard team Thursday. “We have lost to them the last two years. We will have
to play well to win,” emphasized Frank.

A win in Saturday’s match against the Citadel is necessary for the Wildcats to have a chance for the Southern
Conference championship. The meeting against conference-preseason favorite Furman Monday is also very important.

“Our singles have been good so far (Mike Barnhill 10-4, John Mitchell 10-5, and Steve Holman 11-4), but our doubles
have been slow to come around. We seem to be improving, however,” commented Coach Frank.

“Last year we came on in our doubles at the end of the season and I think we will this
year, too,” he said.

MORE POWERFUL THAN a speeding locomotive—Stan Brown rounds third under a full head of steam under Coach Pete Goodman’s direction.

Batters split VMI doubleheader

Wolfpack capitalizes on Cat errors

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s baseball team is slowly coming out of its hitting slump but was plagued by errors last week as they
split with VMI in a doubleheader and lost to N.C. State.

Despite a poor overall record the Wildcats were able to improve their conference record to 3-1 in their first game
against VMI, winning 5-4. Joel Tew looked strong as he went all the way on the mound for Davidson and
Freshman Tim Goodall hit a three-run homer to provide the winning margin.

In the second game, a seventh-inning rally fell one run short as the Wildcats cut a 5-1 deficit to 5-4.
The final out came with two men on base and dropped the Wildcats to 3-2 in conference play.

Mike Hall started on the mound but had to be relieved by Alan Alig. VMI scored three unearned runs in
the fourth inning as Davidson committed two costly errors and Hall was forced to take the loss.

Coach Palmer Muench cited lack of hitting power in the second game as the reason for the loss.

“Our hitting has been getting better, especially in the last week, but in the second VMI game we didn’t hit
well until our last inning rally.”

Rick Blinkhorn continues to lead the team in batting with a strong .372 average. Stan Brown is the only other
Wildcat batting over .300, hitting at a .327 clip.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE ROTC DEPARTMENT

NORTH CAROLINA ROTC WEEK
3 - 10 APRIL, 1976

DATE TIME EVENT

Sat, 3 April 8:00 AM - 12:00 Noon JROTC Field Day

Tue, 6 April 8:00 PM Army War College Current Affairs Panel

Thu, 8 April 9:00 AM - 12:00 Noon Helicopter Static Display

Thu, 8 April 12:00 Noon - 1:30 PM ROTC Week Briefing and Luncheon

Thu, 8 April 1:30 PM - 2:30 PM Parachute Free Fall Demonstration

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS ON DAVIDSON COLLEGE CAMPUS

* The public is cordially invited to attend any or all of these events.

LOCATION
Rappelling Tower
Phi Hall
Upper Soccer Field
Rusk House
Richardson Stadium

As a team Davidson had displayed very little firepower and has a dismal .220 team batting average.

In a game played Monday at Raleigh, the Wildcats suffered through a rash of eight errors and gave up five
unearned runs in losing to the Wolfpack 5-2. Muench is pleased, however, with the overall progress of the team.

“Our pitching is coming along real well with Joel Tew starting to come around after a slow start.

“Ron Cannon started his first game against State and did an excellent job. He went the distance and surprised me
with the way he pitched,” said Muench.

Tuesday’s game with league-leading Furman was rained out twice and will be rescheduled for later in the season. The Paladins
are currently 3-0 in the conference and are picked by Muench as the team to beat.

He also believes that Davidson will be able to make a strong bid for the title.

“I think our chances are very good now. We won't have quite as many games each weekend and hopefully I’ll
be able to use my top two or three pitchers all the time. Also as the hitting improves we're getting
better team balance.”

Muench’s team is very young and he is encouraged by the improved play of his freshmen.

“The freshmen are helping us very much. Tim Goodell is playing good defense at catcher and getting key hits. Tim
McDowell at first and Jim Richards at shortstop are also playing fine defense.”
