October 22, 1976

Kitchen installation surprises Belk

By JIM ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

Students living on fourth Belk returned this year to find an addition to their hall—a new kitchen. This facility, installed over the summer in the storage room, contains a stove, sink, and ample counter and cabinet space.

“This was a pleasant surprise for all of us. We had no idea that a kitchen would be installed over the summer,” said one Belk resident.

The kitchen is the result of work between the Residence Hall Council, headed by SGA Vice President Steve Cuffe, and the college administration. Last year, the RHC conducted a survey of students to determine what dormitory improvements were necessary. The installation of additional kitchens was ranked second behind the installation of a Telecentrex phone system, but since the Telecentrex system was not feasible for two years, the RHC went ahead and began to plan for kitchen installations.

-Steve Lewis

BELK welcomes new kitchen but does not change eating habits.

By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

The SGA Senate has initiated a new communications program between the Senate and the student body.

“The communications program was set up for two main reasons,” explained SGA Senator Hans Watford, who, along with SGA Vice-President Steve Cuffe and Senator Tony Snow, is serving on a Communications Committee that runs the system. “First, it allows Senators to get information about Senate activities to the students on a more regular and direct basis, and second, it allows students to let the Senate know what they want done,” he said.

The system works on a three-week cycle. The first week all of them are given a computer printout list of about forty students. During the week the Senators are supposed to see everyone on their list and ask them for any complaints, ideas, or interests. If they do have a response, they are given a card which records their problem in triplicate. The Senator takes this card back to the Senate meeting the next week where it is channeled into the proper Senate committee for action. During the second week, the committee members investigate the responses on the cards and after recording complete and detailed answers, return them to the Senator receiving the response. Then during the third week, the Senator returns to the student who gave the response and informs them of the progress being made. After the three-week cycle is complete, the Senators receive a new list of names and the process begins again.

Visitation for this week has already been turned in to the Senate. Watford termed the program “very successful,” but he clarified success by saying “a lot depends on how successful we can be in dealing with the problems and ideas.” He added that participation in the program was close to 100 percent.

“The vast majority of problems this week dealt with the broad problem of overcrowding,” he said. “Some people expressed a concern about getting a room next year.” Watford said that both student and Senate response had been good. “All the Senators had done their job on time. Student response was also good. They really seem to like the idea of us getting back to them with concern for their problem.”

Kitchens were originally planned for fourth Belk and fourth Little, but finances prevented the construction so it was decided to try for one new kitchen a year for the next several years, with the first to be in Belk.

“Getting this kitchen installed took a lot of work and a lot of going back and forth between myself, Mr. Currie, Mr. Meetze, and Dean Terry, all of whom were very helpful,” Cuffe stated.

The cost of the kitchen installation was originally estimated to be between $1700 and $2000 with this cost to be split between the RHC and the college, according to Cuffe. College business manager Robert Currie agreed that this had been the original proposal, but stated that when two kitchens had still been planned, the RHC had told him that it could provide $1000 and the SGA an additional $500. When the plan was altered to include only one kitchen, the RHC went ahead and financed it entirely. Currie added that though the college did not help finance the 4th Belk kitchen, in all such activities in the future, “our intent is for joint financing between the college and the Residence Hall Council.”

Concerning the use of the fourth Belk kitchen, Cuffe said that it was not designed to be an alternative to the Patterson Court eating houses and it was hoped that as many students as possible would use it on a “non-daily basis.” According to Belk residents, the kitchen has changed student eating habits. As one resident put it, “Since we didn’t know itwould be installed over the summer we really couldn’t change our eating plans accordingly. Those who were planning to eat on the court are doing so and those who planned to cook in their rooms now have a better place to cook.” Another resident said that it was used primarily for snacking purposes and that the kitchen is used by students from all levels of Belk with a majority from the third and fourth floors. She added, “The only problem with the new facility is the fault of the users. One fourth Belker complained, ‘Several times I’ve gone in to use it and the counters and sink have been covered with dirty dishes.’” Cuffe is hopeful that additional kitchens will continue to be installed on a “one per year” basis, but added, “Any further kitchen installation will be up to future RHC presidents since at this point we really don’t have the money for them.” Mr. Currie was also hopeful that installations would continue. He added that the Belk kitchen replaced a storeroom and the proposed Little kitchen would be put in the existing lounge so as not to displace students.

Poll studies Carter’s stance
By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

The various aspects of Democrat Jimmy Carter’s campaign were analyzed in the second campus-wide poll of “Campaign ’76” conducted the week of October 11. The timing of this poll is significant in that it was conducted after the second Ford-Carter debate. Of those who saw the first debate, 70 percent said they thought Ford had won, 4 percent gave a victory to Carter and 26 percent considered it a draw. 68 percent of those who saw the second debate said Carter had won, 5 percent felt Ford had won and 27 percent considered it a draw. Asked for whom they would vote if the election were held today, 55 percent supported Ford, 42 percent named Carter and 5 percent were split between Eugene McCarthy and other candidates. These results show an increase of 2 percent for both Ford and Carter since the last poll, conducted before the first debate. This indicates that the debates are a factor in helping undecided voters lean towards one candidate or another. As indicated above, they are helping both Ford and Carter equally.

Governor Carter’s potential weak points, namely charges of being a “flip-flop,” of being vague and fuzzy on the issues, his extreme religious views, the now famous Playboy interview, and his abortion stand, were also analyzed. Asked if “Carter is an excessive flip-flop, that is, is he more vague and fuzzy on specific issues than ordinary politicians?” 59 percent said “no.” This, in itself, is insignificant. Of Ford supporters, however, 57 percent felt he is excessively vague and fuzzy and this fact is certainly crucial in understanding Ford’s formidable lead over Carter at DC. The poll indicates that the effect of Carter’s Playboy interview was negligible. Only 9 percent of Carter’s supporters on campus were “turned off” by the interview. As revealed in Carter’s 2-percent jump in support, the interview obviously did not cause any significant number of his supporters to switch to the Ford camp.

In other areas, 53 percent agreed with Carter’s stand of giving a blanket pardon to all Vietnam Draft evaders. Support of this was strong among Carter supporters (80 percent), and was least among Ford supporters (30 percent). Only 13 percent said that Carter’s extreme religious views made them feel unsure about his political capabilities. Thus religion does not appear to be a significant factor in the election. The touchy abortion issue was also analyzed with 74 percent saying that abortion, being a moral issue, should not be a campaign issue. 80 percent agreed with Carter’s stand of keeping abortion legal in all fifty states.

The final part of the poll involved students reacting (Favorable, Unfavorable or No Opinion) to five Carter campaign promises and programs he has said he would initiate if elected President. Carter received the highest percentage (60 percent) of “Favorable” votes in his plan for Tax Reform, specifically in giving a tax break to lower income families and increasing the tax burden proportionately on upper income people. He received the highest “Unfavorable” rating (53 percent) for his plan to reduce the military budget by about five billion. In summary, the poll indicates that one of Carter’s main problems is his reputation of being a flip-flop on the issues. Students are also critical of several of his campaign programs, specifically reduction in the military budget, National Health Insurance and his liberal fiscal policies. All these certainly contribute to Carter’s minority support on the campus.

LEIBFRAUMILCH
GRAVES
PIESPORTER MICHEL
MOSELBLUCHEN
PEREGRINE HOUSE
WINES FOR THE WEEK
BEAMEISTER LEBFRAUMILCH
892-8686
$2.25
$3.10
$1.60
$2.45
$2.25