March 19, 1976

The Davidsonian

Comic books clobber chronic ennui

By JASON NOBLE
Staff Writer

“By the hoary hosts of Hogarth.” Magic in the form of 18 four-color pages; epics taking place with line and
word balloon. “It’s clobberin’ time”; “By the Great Pama”; “Up, up and away”; “Why does everyone hate Hulk?”

To the unenlightened few who are wondering just what we're talking about, being uninitiated in the higher levels of outside
reading (that means those things with words that are not textbooks), we suggest taking a short walk to your nearest
Hub (Ralph would appreciate it) and locate the round metal stand not six feet from the soda machine. There before
you will stand truth and the American way, the reason for it all and the collected wonders of the universe.
Let us say it clearly: Comic Books.

Where else can one find the grandeur of eternity (Dr. Strange #13), the agony of knowing another man’s soul (Warlock
#12) or the oppressive humiliation that a militarist society can read upon an individual (any Hulk available). Obviously nowhere (disregarding
the illegal stuff) and that’s why comic books are at present the finest literary form available for relevant, escapist reading.

We are not here to laud the important social impact of comic books, nor are we trying to impress the
reader by our knowledge of this particular written form (impressive, though it is). No, by Odin! All we attempt here
is to enhance your life (make new friends, get real opportunities, and become a he-man in ten days) by offering
you a greater insight into the world, nay, the cosmos of comic book experience. We therefore present a brief review
of a few manuscripts now available.

Warlock: Perhaps one of the finest comic books out. What started off as a poor attempt at creating a Jesus-type
figure in a skin-tight costume, has turned into a metaphysical marvel of interdimensional relations and the meaning of the individual
soul in relationship to the pattern of universal events. Warlock is the creation of a group of scientists who fled
from modern society to create their own technological Utopia. However, they turned evil and decided to manufacture a superbeing for
their own use. This creation, originally called “Him” (catch the religious overtones) was of a higher ethical calibre and left
the scientists to go on his own after several years of minor incidents. “Him” went into further metamorphosis and evolved
into “Warlock” a being of super strength, paranormal reflexes and an insane drive to do good. After a hard-won battle
against the man-beast, Warlock took his place in the universe as a cosmic protector. At this point one of the
best stories to appear was started; beginning in “Strange Tales” 178-181 and continuing in Warlock #9-11 is the titanic battle
between Warlock and his future self “The Magus.” The Magus was finally defeated by Warlock, who entered a time probe
and destroyed the path toward this future and took the shortest possible path.

4/9 CLAUDINE
4/10 WIT
4/23 SHAMPOO
4/30 D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
3/20 BOYS IN THE BAND
3/26 MURDER ON THE ORIENT EXPRESS
4/2 SUMMER WISHES, WINTER DREAMS
5/7 EFFECT OF GAMMA RAYS ON MAN-IN-THE-MOON MARIGOLDS
5/14 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY

RATED R. UNDER 17 NOT ADMITTED WITHOUT PARENT. ID'S WILL BE CHECKED.To another future and killed himself in order to
disallow his eventual evolution into the Magus (whom it turned out, was actually a champion of life created to fight
the champion of death: Thanos). At this point, Warlock knows he has only months to live.

Hulk: the personification of both power and oppression. Only a weakling, Dr. Bruce Banner was, by gamma rays, turned into
the mightiest mortal alive. However, a slight side effect was also incurred: he grew to seven feet, turned green, became
built like a brick outhouse, and developed the mind of an enraged eight-year-old half-wit. All he wants out of life
is friends and peace, but the army is determined to destroy him. He usually retaliates by tearing up the landscape
and destroying a battalion of tanks. Because of this, he is labeled a menace and is constantly hounded by Jimmy
Olsen.

What ever happened to my ever-lovin’ friends Batman and Robin... and The Green Hornet and Cato... Superman and everyone. All
this allows for great identification, for who wouldn’t want the power to smash Davidson into little pieces after setting a
64 on a math test that you studied for all weekend, thereby losing your only date of the year.

Spiderman: Probably the most popular of Marvel's books, and, unfortunately, one of the most mediocre. The character evolution of Peter
(Spiderman) Parker, however, was one of the best around. The alienation of being unpopular as a student and hated as
a super-being, along with the constant anxiety over his old aunt, made P. Parker one teenager that you could feel
for. After finally getting a girlfriend, he loses her when she is killed by his worst enemy, who happens to
be his best friend’s father (this is better than ‘As the World Turns’ any day). However, the stories started to
get monotonous and repetitious and redundant and predictable. Since this time, Spiderman has gotten another girlfriend, almost lost her, gotten
back the first one (figure that out), lost her again, and is now going with the second one again whom
one can’t help but thinking he is about to lose again. Spiderman became and has remained a ‘‘good’’ comic. This
one is for beginners.

Howard the Duck: Designed to become a classic. The first three issues have some of the best art around, and
the writing is superb. This is the closest thing to an underground comic that can still be approved by the
Comics Code Authority. The story evolves around a philosophical three-foot duck from another dimension who is trapped on Earth. Befriended
by Beverly, Howard goes through life spouting ethical reformation and damnation upon the “hairless apes” (plus an occasional plea for
a good cigar). He is unique in the comic book field and one of the most welcome figures to come
along in quite a while.

This is one man’s view of comic strips, to be repeated at sporadic intervals, if the spirit wills.

ALL ELECTRIC AIR CONDITIONED
CUSTOM DRAPES
KITCHEN APPLIANCES
DEEP SHAG CARPET

OAKHILL APARTMENTS
NOW AVAILABLE
ELM STREET DAVIDSON
QUIET, SECLUDED, PERSONAL — ONE & TWO BEDROOMS
SPACIOUS CLUBHOUSE
COMPLETE LAUNDRY
T. V. ANTENNA SYSTEM
HAVE AN APARTMENT FOR SPRING QUARTER AND RESERVE IT
ONE BEDROOM ONLY $120--MONTH
OPEN 10:00 AM - 6:00 PM
CALL 892-1859 FOR INFORMATION
SWIMMING POOL
GARDEN PLOTS
