October 8, 1976

Pops plans June retirement, brings gym tradition to end

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Norman Emerson, who is better known as "Pops," has only been at Davidson for four years, yet when he retires in June, another tradition will have ended. "Pops" is that little old man who checks for student IDs at the football and basketball games. He also runs the now-controversial basket room, and during the summer months, he heads to work on the athletic fields with the other four members of the close-knit gym maintenance staff.

After finishing construction of his own house in Huntersville in 1972, Norman came out of "semi-retirement" and started working in Johnston Gym. Right from the start, the students nicknamed him "Pops." Over the past four years, he says he has met a lot of "wonderful young people" and he has made lasting friendships with many of them. He and his wife have become really attached both to the college and the town of Davidson. He said, "We like Davidson, it is a beautiful friendly town. Our hearts are wrapped up in Davidson."

Davidson athletics, especially basketball, have also secured a place in Pops' heart. Both he and his wife are avid fans. He added that his wife "would crawl to be able to see a game." Pops figures that Davidson is on its way back to the top in basketball, for he believes it is getting the right combination of "wonderful coaches, good players, and student support." He also figures to be around to see the return to the top.

Being at Davidson has given Pops the opportunity to devote more time to his love for music. He regularly attends the concerts held on the campus. However, his love of music is not restricted just to listening; he also plays the saxophone. Bach and Beethoven are his favorite composers, and he spends many hours sitting in the basket room with sheet music before him. In the near future, he hopes to team up with Dr. Dockery and give a public performance.

For now, his public perform-

...First lady refs join IMAC

[Continued from page 9]

ate series of organized practices for the bewildered Sig Eps. PDT #1 skittered about the field like predacious water beetles, scattering the 2nd Cannon marsh maggots from here to Nairobi. For the benefit of the purists of the sport, the tally was 46-19, PDT #1. In regard to trivialities, the Campus Nasties proved to be a misnomer when 2nd Richardson put out the sweet Nasties' lights, 19-0. Also, the high aspirations of Flying Phalli were shot down by KA #1, 46-6.

Mary "Heads of-Tails" Hay Hanging Baskets and Barbie "Where's the ball?" Roberts wreaked utter havoc in their first outing as officials. As far as we know, they were the first girls to don the black and white for an IMAC contest. Their job was credible and they received no complaints with the exception of the fact that they did not know from which line the teams were supposed to kick off. Due to the significance of this historical event, the score of the game almost escaped notice. The bouncing bullies of 3rd Little swept theFlitting fu-fus of 2nd Watts-under the rug; 12-0. Cache Pots Cheese ances are restricted to playing with the Wildcat Pep Band. His job prevents him from playing at campus games, but he tries to play with the band at all of the Coliseum games. When Pops retires on June first, he says he “won’t be ready to hit the rocking chair for a long time.” He has a four-acre lot to clear and landscape, he has his music, and he is now developing a new interest in stained glass. Most importantly, he has got his friends and interests at Davidson, and he warmly remarked that “as long as God gives me my health, I’ll continue to take part in the activities and sporting events at Davidson.”

DAVIDSON booters lose a goal as Hunter Jennings, the UNCC goalie, retrieves the ball during Wednesday’s match.

Davidson Booters drop pair
By DOUG SCHUESSLER
Staff Writer

A lack of concentration continues to plague the Wildcat soccer team as it dropped its fourth and fifth consecutive matches this past weekend. The double loss also dealt a severe blow to pre-season hopes of a possible Southern Conference championship, as both defeats came at the hands of conference foes.

The team opened its two-game road trip against a tough William and Mary squad. The lack of offensive pressure by Davidson strikers kept the Cats on defense throughout the match. Defensive mistakes led to three W&M scores as Davidson fell by a score of 3-0.

Sunday’s match versus VMI was considerably more encouraging. The offense, which had totaled only one goal in their first four matches, suddenly came to life. Ten minutes after the opening kick-off, striker Dave Patton rifled a shot from thirty yards into the right corner of the goal. The 1-0 lead, however, did not stand up for long. Mental lapses resulted in two quick VMI scores. Moments later, the Cats received a big break when a third VMI goal was called back for offsides. The half ended with VMI in front by a score of 2-1.

Twenty minutes into the second half, VMI once again took advantage of mental mistakes by Davidson defenders and netted their third score of the match. The Davidson offense immediately bounced back with intense pressure on the Keydet goal. The pressure finally paid off as winger Paul Schleiffer slammed home a breakaway to close the gap to 3-2. However, a total of 29 second-half shots on goal failed to produce the tying score as VMI squeezed out the victory.

The Cats open their home season against the University of North Carolina (at Charlotte) on Wednesday, Oct. 6.

DAVIDSON
Friday, Oct. 15 — 5 pm
COLLEGE FOOD SERVICE SPECIAL
Pancake Supper
Richards & Bailey Houses

THE VILLAGE STORE
DAVIDSON, N.C.
“A World of Gifts”

Congratulations—
Kathy Howard
Winner of The Giant Teddy Bear
Our “Welcome Students” Door Prize for 1976