March 19, 1976

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

With the approach of spring and warmer weather, Davidson club sports have begun their seasons in football, soccer, and lacrosse.

Club football began their season in novel fashion when they confronted the Charlotte Police last Sunday. The game was billed as a contest between the “freaks and the fuzz,” and the Davidson freaks were easily able to avoid the long arm of the law as they rolled to a 14-0 victory.

Charlotte’s police helped the Davidson cause considerably with two fumbles and three interceptions stolen by Davidson’s defenders. The police also fell victim to further thievery as the Wildcats put the game away with a halfback option pass to Bob Bishop that left the detective squad stumped.

The win was club football’s fourth in a row counting the last three games of the fall season. Junior Tim Sellers credited the victory to improved line play.

“It’s hard to put your finger on any one standout. The running backs and defensive backs did a fine job but in the end it was the offensive line that made it all go.”

Thirty-one players showed up for the game in one of club football’s highest turnouts ever.

“We got a lot more freshmen and even a couple of seniors who will only be able to play with us this spring,” explained Sellers.

Davidson will put its victory streak on the line in its next game against a strong Central Piedmont club. However, Sellers feels that Davidson may be able to surprise CPCC.

“Our record will be strongly challenged but I feel that for the first time we have the potential to beat them.”

Club soccer has already started its season and presently has a 1-2 record with two one-goal losses to Charlotte and High Point. Their only victory came on a forfeit from Pfeiffer.

“We’ve looked all right. In team play we look better than we did during the fall season, but the skills aren’t at such a high level,” explained Coach Chip Stone.

Club soccer has several players from the Davidson soccer team but Stone noted that the program is open to all Davidson students.

“Anybody who wants to play can. Right now it’s mostly team members and we’re also trying to incorporate the soccer class into the program.”

Davidson is in the North Carolina League that includes 36 other clubs. The Wildcats will play a nine-game schedule in the Southwest Division and then finish the season in the state tournament.

Stone feels that the club program is beneficial to the regular season program in several ways.

“It allows the players to work on skills where in the fall all concentration is directed towards winning. It also helps us in recruiting because when a kid looks at us he sees that he will be playing all year round.”

Club lacrosse under Coach Martin is preparing to start its second season with a greatly expanded program.

This year’s schedule will include at least five games and several more people are playing this year.

“Last year we had only one game and I had to play because we didn’t have enough players otherwise. We were in trouble when I got thrown out of the game,” explained Martin.

If enough interest can be generated the Athletic Department hopes to eventually create a varsity lacrosse team. For now, however, the club is allocated no funds by the department.

“There is absolutely no money available for club lacrosse and our players will have to transport themselves and pay their own way,” said Martin.

Martin is pleased with the growth of the club and feels Davidson can support a good lacrosse program.

“In members we’ve grown and the skill level is way up. I don’t even have to play anymore.”

“The important thing this season is to take another step towards arousing interest. I think Davidson is a good place for lacrosse but they will have to put a little more into the program.”

The team will open against Georgia and then play VMI, the Citadel, Guilford twice, and possibly Clemson and South Carolina. The only home game will be against Guilford on Spring Frolics weekend.

Gargoyles defeat ruggers, player suffers head injuries

By VIC McMILLAN
Staff Writer

Penalties overwhelmed the Davidson ruggers against the Gargoyles from Charlotte in what was otherwise a closely played game.

Behind outstanding scrum play of Jeff Morrow, Paul Henschen, and Bucky Banks, Davidson played much of the game in Gargoyle territory. But more often than not, crucial penalties kept the Cat ruggers from converting their excellent field position into scores.

Davidson scored first in the match when Eric Hendricks recovered a loose ball in the end zone. Morrow put the Cats up by six with a point after touch conversion.

The Gargoyles fought back to tie the score at 6-6 and then went ahead to stay on two penalty kicks.

Comeback efforts by the Cats were dampened by the loss of Joe O’Connor who sustained broken facial bones. This left the Cats playing one man short for most of the second half.

Next week’s game is here against Charlotte RFC.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

Roast Beef Hoagie
$1.40

Friday, Mar. 19 - Thursday, Mar. 25

Plaza Gift Shop

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
HOURS:
10 AM-5:30 PM
DAILY

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

bumblebee

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS