the davidsonian
October 29, 1976

RIS Mela. CH FRIESINGER shows his deadly aim in Davidson’s favorite sport—Frisbee tossing.

Noted as being a hard worker
Pritchett works against adversity
By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

Davidson’s new head basketball coach, Dave Pritchett, is noted for being a hard worker. It’s fortunate that he likes to
work because he is faced with the task of directing a basketball team that has taken more than its share
of lumps in the past two years. When asked if he felt a great deal of pressure to turn the
Wildcats into a winner overnight, Pritchett said, “No, the only real pressure I feel is the pressure I put on
myself.” He feels that the team will be much improved this year, but each year will get increasingly better.

The key to getting better is recruiting. Successful recruiting is dependent on a great deal of hard work and a
quality product to offer. Pritchett’s reputation for the former is well-established and so is Davidson’s for the latter. “Davidson is
special. When you look at the doctors and successful people that have played here in the past, you can offer
something with quality.”

Coach Pritchett has eyes set right at the top of the recruiting charts. He plans on signing his share of
the top-notch high school seniors in the country. “For every 20 kids, there will only be one we can go
after. That means it will take us a little longer to turn things around, but we'll do it.” Already well
on the road in recruiting for next year, Pritchett has a typically attractive schedule to offer. Notre Dame, N.C. State,
Virginia, Wake Forest, Duke, Ohio State, St. John’s, South Carolina, and Brigham Young are names to attract any player.

Missing from the starting ranks of last year’s team are Tom Dore and Jim Rice. In playing that impressive schedule
their absence will be felt. Coach Pritchett expressed disappointment at not getting an opportunity to work with the 7’2” Dore.
“I also hated to lose Jim Rice. He was a positive force on the team. You can’t measure the value
of a Jim Rice with statistics. He’s just a great kid.” Coming back for the 1976-77 season is last year’s
leading scorer and a member of the

Wrangler
T-Shirts
Levi
ETCETERA
Jackets
Men’s & Ladies
SALE ON JEANS
CLYDE ROY
Winner of Free Pair of Jeans
Thanks for Making Our Grand Opening a Success!

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Rifle team outshoots A&T during season’s first match
By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

Davidson’s rifle team opened its season with a win over North Carolina A&T at Greensboro last Saturday, overpowering their opponents
by a score of 1248 to 1068. Senior Ben Simms and junior Tom Miller tied for the high match score
with 252 out of a possible score of 300. Sophomore Tom Niblock was close behind with a score of 251.
Another sophomore, Bob Shoulders, posted a 249 while senior Rob Mitchell rounded out Davidson's top five with a 244. Mitchell
and Niblock tied for the match’s high prone scores withAlmost-perfect 97s. Tom Miller fired an 88 for the number one
spot kneeling and Ben Simms’ 78 was the high standing score. Other Wildcat shooters were sophomore Andrew MacDonald posting a
238, freshman Robert Kirkendol with a 225, sophomore Katherine Whitney with a 216, and freshman Mike Pearson with a 205.
With seven returning lettermen and many strong freshman prospects, including a handful of women, Coach Jerry Flannigan looks forward to
a good year. “We posted a 13-10 winning season last year with a young team,” commented Flannigan. “This year’s challenging
30-match schedule should prove even more successful,” he said.

The Rifle Team competes in both the Southern Conference and the Western Carolina Conference, against such formidable schools as the
Citadel and nationally ranked Appalachian State. “Having a winning rifle team doesn’t come easy,” says Flannigan. “It requires work and
lots of it. Our team has worked hard and it’s going to pay off. We’re going to beat some teams
that aren’t expecting to be beaten.” The Rifle Team’s next match will be a seven-way Western Carolina Conference meet to
be held at Davidson on Friday and Saturday, October 29 and 30. Participating schools will be Davidson, Clemson, Wofford, Appalachian
State, Presbyterian, Wake Forest, and South Carolina State.

Revitalized golfing program results in Davidson victory

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s revitalized golf program produced the first victory for a Wildcat golf team in two years Tuesday. Starting a new
fall schedule, the Wildcats overpowered Catawba and Pfeiffer by seven and ten strokes respectively. Davidson had a team total of
319 to 326 for Catawba and 329 for Pfeiffer.

Playing on a soaked and wind-swept Corbin Hills Golf Course in Salisbury, N.C., the Wildcats were led by Joe Davis
who shot a 78, Sollie Foy with a 79, Chris Loeb with 81, and Jim Heard, also with an 81.
Rounding out the team scores were Mark Polhill who had an 84 and Parks Nesler who had a score of
85. Only the first four scores were counted in this match.

New head coach Tim Talent has instituted a more organized program that includes both a fall and spring schedule. Earlier
in the year, Davidson competed in the Etowah Valley Collegiate Invitational Tournament but were rained out after only nine holes.
