6 The Davidsonian October 22, 1976

Arlo Guthrie entertains and reunites fans

ARLO GUTHRIE picks and croons to Ovens Auditorium crowd Sunday night.

By RICK MILLER
Staff Writer

If you like music, if you like Arlo Guthrie, if you like people who like music, or if you like
people who like Arlo Guthrie, you should have attended the Alice’s Restaurant Massacree Movement Reunion and Arlo Guthrie Concert at
Ovens Auditorium this past Sunday night.

Guthrie, accompanied by Shenandoah (four of the wackiest musicians ever to have come forth from Massachusetts), began the Reunion and
Concert at 8:20 and played for two hours, pleasing the audience with old favorites like “City of New Orleans,” “Ukelele
Lady,” and “Me and My Goose” as well as a number of tunes from his new album, Amigo. He also
sang two ‘talkin’ songs,’ the well-known “Motorcycle Song” and a new one (which he calls a ‘clam-shanty’) called “The Saga
of Reuben Clamzo,” a song placed in the time of the first pilgrims when ‘clammers’ would have to hunt ‘giant
clams’ and kill them with ‘clampons.’ Nonsense, of course, but it makes a humorous story.

There were a number of interesting surprises during the course of the evening such as Guthrie’s introduction to “Massachusetts” from
Amigo: “...Me and the band kinda like Massachusetts. Nixon don’t like the Union that didn’t vote for him in '72.
That’s why we like it...” and “...A lot of songs have been written to a lot of things. John Denver
wrote a song to a sheep. I didn’t ever write no song to no sheep. Wrote one to a goose,
though...”

Another surprise came at the end of Guthrie’s first set of songs when his band played a six-song set of
their own highlighted by a hot-licked instrumental version of “Sweet Georgia Brown” (probably a first for a rock concert) and
“I Am My Own Grandpa” (a tongue-twisting tale of intertwining intermarriage).

The concert climaxed with “Ukelele Lady” for which Guthrie asked for ‘moonlight’ and then proceeded to sing as the band
hula-danced and provided barbershop quartet backup. Although the rest of the concert was excellent, it reached its low point on
the set closer of the concert, “Connection” from Amigo, which was entirely too loud and lacked the quality of the
female vocal part which was most ably provided by Linda Ronstadt on the album. Guthrie redeemed himself with a three-song
encore including “Okie from Muskogee,” “Amazin’ Grace,” and “Stealin’,” after which the crowd, highly satisfied by what they had heard,
gave him a short standing ovation and left for home.

Ralph forsakes burgers for bureaus in turnover

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

For fifteen years Ralph Quackenbush, proprietor of The Hub on Main Street, has been congenially dishing up hamburgers and milkshakes
to Davidson students; indeed, Quackenbush has become one of those revered Davidson traditions one talks about. Hub frequenters, therefore, were
surprised to see the “Going Out of Business” signs posted. Now The Hub will become an antique furniture store. October
14 was the last day of food service, and everything else, including fixtures, will be sold as quickly as possible.

Quackenbush will, however, keep the bus service in addition to his new furniture business. Reflecting back upon the last fifteen
years, Quackenbush said, “I have really enjoyed this job, but it finally boiled down to a big weekend spent.”

Homecoming festivities were well-planned and well-attended. Students and alumni had fun and enjoyed the activities. A foreign student, whose observations
are particularly incisive, said, “I had more fun this whole weekend than I did before.”To what I wanted. Because of
the outsider’s objectivity, he in the front window. To do the rest of my life. I asked myself, ‘Why not
do what I really enjoy the most anyway?’ So I decided to build furniture full-time. I’m really looking forward to
it. Since doing this doesn’t even seem like a job to me, it will be almost Utopian,” he said.

When queried as to why he was closing, Quackenbush replied that for some time he had been restoring antique furniture
as a hobby, but for the past ten months it had become practically a second job. “It got so that
I was working until eleven o'clock each weeknight, plus all day Saturdays and Sundays.” A decision finally had to be
made as to which job to do. “I realized that making and restoring furniture was what I really enjoyed doing,
and it is certainly more creative than fixing a hamburger,” Quackenbush said.

Ralph says that he will miss contact with students the most, for he always enjoyed talking with them when they'd
come in for something to eat. “But it’s not like I’m leaving town,” he adds; “indeed, I want all my
Davidson friends to drop by and chat with me anytime.”

Despite the feeling that some students have that Homecoming has outlived its usefulness, the weekend’s revelries were festive and boisterous
as expected. The Saloon Show was good because of the student participation involved. Said a sophomore girl, “I had more
fun than I expected to. The concert was great and I even liked the Western theme—it lent a spirit of
unity.” Finally, one apparently intellectually inclined senior guy added, “Homecoming was wild; we enjoyed some get-down partying, some seriously hard-core
action.”

Though students’ expectations of and responses to Homecoming weekend ran the gamut from blithesome to gloomy and disheartened, the majority
foresaw and experienced a delightful weekend. A few less than exuberant students’ expectations ran along the lines of one man’s
“I couldn’t care less about Homecoming” and another’s “I was disappointed.” Students who anticipated a less than stimulating weekend later
confessed to having enjoyed a genuinely pleasant time. That students disagree on their views concerning big weekends is evidenced by
the many criticisms encountered. One prevalent school of thought focuses on the funds spent on Homecoming activities in order to
eliminate the occasional boring weekend.
