the davidsonian

December 17, 1976

2

Victorious Union leaders outline smooth transition

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Billy Hutchings, Mark Tyndall, and Olivia Ware have won the positions of Union Board President, Social Vice President, and Co-Curricular Vice President. The new officers will move into office in January.

Hutchings is working closely with current Union Board President Karl Goodhouse to smooth the transition and to learn the procedures of the Union more fully.

“My main problem right now is to find people to work with committee heads,” he said. “There are people out there who want to do things that maybe I don’t know.

“I won’t go so far as to say anything specific I will do right now,” because he is still learning about the Union.

Tyndall plans to emphasize student participation in Union social events, “whether that means partying on the baseball field with a good band or coming up and foot stomping when we have some bluegrass somewhere else,” he said.

“If anyone has any ideas, find me,” said Tyndall. “I want to keep the doors—as well as my mind—open. This is not a job someone can do in a vacuum. I need all the help I can get.”

“I’m very, very flabbergasted,” said Ware. She has not met with the current Union officers yet, and so is hesitant to mention specific plans she has for the Co-Curricular Council.

She plans to emphasize student participation with student/Union planning sessions open to the student body to allow students to suggest programs. Ware also plans to improve the coordination of the Co-Curricular committees.

“I’m pleased with the results of the elections,” said Goodhouse. “I think the new officers have a basic structure to work within that is more applicable for the needs of the students than we did when we came in.”

“They have a tremendous opportunity to take the groundwork that has been laid for them to build the Union into the focal point of extra-curricular activities,” he said.

“I see the Union as moving into a slightly different direction. Karl (Goodhouse), Steve (Peeples), and Bob (Mayer, current Social Chairman) have moved and settled us into a new building and we had to struggle with new energy, new structure, and new committees,” said Assistant Director of the Union William Brown.

“I think the new people instead of creating a structure will work with programming, pushing the committees,” he said.

“My guess is that two old projects will be pushed again: continued effort to make the Union a center of interest, especially during the daytime—a drop-in place,” he said.

“A part of the process of making the Union more of a center of the community will be a further liaison with the President and Social Chairmen of the eating houses and coordinating activities with people in other parts of the campus.”

SGA President
SGA Vice President
Union President
Davidsonian Editor
Miscellany Editor
Quips and Cranks Editors
WDAV Station Manager
Freshman Advisors
YM/YWCA President
YM/YWCA Secretary
YM/YWCA Treasurer
PIRG Referendum
Election Results
Social Committee Chairman
Co-Curricular Committee Chairman
Wildcat Handbook Editors
Hearing Committee: Class of ’78
Hearing Committee: Class of ’79
Hearing Committee: Class of ’80

Thom Young
Bruce Brown
Billy Hutchings
Mark Tyndall
Olivia Ware
Cathy Landis
Bill Bares
Ted Eastwick and Gil Cuthbertson
Mary Gilliam and Julie Chrisco
Sid Barrett
Bruce Holliday and Meg Campbell
Jay Silver
Marcee Morris
Lee Carol Brewster
Bill Sigmund
Hal Askins
Bev Jones
Charlie Cochran
Mary Hay
Mary Chester Morgan
Meredith Durden
Robert McEwen
J.J. Summerell, Jr.
Yes

Fresh staff means fresh start

[Continued from page 1]
“I am excited about a fresh staff because we can have a fresh start.”

About her staff, Landis said, “All of them have had experience with newspapers in some form somewhere. They are all willing to learn, that’s the most important thing.”

One concern Landis has had with the paper in the past has been problems of organization it has had. She hopes to streamline the production of The Davidsonian by instituting a “beat system” and by requesting that the section editors adhere to their stated office hours.

“The beat system simply means that there will be one reporter going to a pre-set area each week. Irregardless of the news that develops in these areas, I will have someone covering the SGA Senate, the Union, Dr. Spencer’s office, the Dean’s office, and others,” said Landis.

“The editors, by keeping regular office hours will be able to sit in the office, receive articles, edit articles, and revise articles without having to run all over campus. Also, as all Davidsonian editors say, ‘All deadlines will be met’,” said Landis.

Landis mentioned a number of what she called “crusades” that she wishes to carry out. These include such things as finding a new Academic Vice President and re-structuring campus housing.

“I have my crusades,” said Landis. “First, an Academic Vice President: I want to get one. Another is the infirmary. I want to look into Extended Studies. I’m interested in campus housing and teacher evaluations. Also, I want to examine the work study program and what I call a stagnation campus. I guess that is a lot of crusades,” added Landis.

Landis’ enthusiasm for the job is great, and she suggested that she was looking forward to working with the other students who were also elected on Tuesday.

Grand opening of Banquet Hall Art Gallery 10:00, Jan. 11