October 29, 1976

A HAGGARD ED ANDERSON starts to overtake an opponent in the late stages of a cross-country race.

Nag’s Nymphs blast Killer Watts 12-0:

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

After a refreshing weekend jaunt to the Congo, we are sufficiently revitalized to pen this week’s collection of momentous memorabilia.

Richardson II suffered a biting case of night blindness and was beaten into submission by Nocturnal Emission, 59-12. Led by Eddie “Swish” Nicholson and Larry “The Mort” Morton, the nightriders were strongly offensive.

“THE MORT” avoided molesting defenseless cherry trees long enough to catch long pass after long pass from the townie twosome of John Ratliff and John Stroud, thus quelling Richardson II’s feeble efforts.

Porky Pig took a crip course in EMBO 101. Expecting to breeze through the course with nary a blemish, the saucy Porkers were astounded when EMBO star Peter “Pumpkin Eater” Green caught the only pass of his career in guiding his team to an early TD. Despite this early setback, the swarthy swine aced the course, 44-6.

Jealous of all the attention ATO is getting, PDT #3 and Fiji #8 did their best to lose to each other. Despite their efforts, at the end of regulation time neither team had subdued the other, and the fracas led to a required overtime.

Fiji #8, to the mortification of PDT #3, cranked up their potent offense to produce the narrow victory. One of our field correspondents ascertained that the combination of the two teams might have lost to the ATO’s.

The normally exuberant Bongs appeared to have a gnawing case of the blet as they were decomposed by PDT #1, 32-6. An anonymous Bong was heard to complain, “The only reason we lost is because our ship didn’t come in.”

Without their pre-game stimuli, the Bongs were uncharacteristically obnoxious in their attempts to sway the referees. Maybe they should try reffing. They seemed to know more than the refs.

The schmucks of Cannon II proved to be easy prey for SPE #2, as the SPE’s reduced the frail freshman team to twelve twerps a-twitching.

MINE!!! MARK TYNDAL escapes his opponent’s grasps during IMAC flickerball.

The final score: SPE #2 40 - twerps 6.

Kathy “Willin” Wilson scored both touchdowns as Nag’s Nymphs short-circuited Killer Watts, 12-0.

The win was attributed to the peerless playing of “Pretentious” Pat, “Catchall” Kathy, “Voluptuous” Vicky, “Vivacious” Virginia, “Sensational” Susan, “More, more” Mariellen, “Resplendent” Ruth, “Amorous” Ann Gray, and “Nympho” Nan.

In the trivia column, 1st Watts and M&M’s tied 0-0 in a meaningless muddling of mobile metatarsals. The wailing wimpettes refused to play overtime. However, the referee team of Hay and Roberts did a superb job, thanks to the absence of their ref coach, Graeme Thomson.

Cats finish 11th

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s cross-country squad traveled to Raleigh last Saturday for the North Carolina State meet and placed eleventh in a strong field of twelve teams.

Running without the services of Jeff Morrow or Ed Anderson, the Wildcats had little hope of a strong race. Anderson was forced out of the competition by a virus and Morrow sustained a knee injury earlier in the year at Appalachian State that kept him out of the race.

Doug Horn once again finished first for the Davidson squad with a time of 27:07 over the five-mile course. His time, however, was only good for an overall finish of 54th.

Zack Murrell, George Strobel, and Tom Scott were the next three finishers for the Wildcats and placed in the 73rd, 76th, and 89th positions respectively.

The meet was for any team from North Carolina and Coach Sterling Martin was pleased with the squad’s performance considering the competition.

“It was far superior to last year’s meet in terms of the quality of competition. We only finished eleventh which was a disappointment for us, but under the circumstances we didn’t have much of a chance,” said Martin.

Martin also noted that the pace of the race was surprisingly fast. “A lot of people were running 30 and 40 seconds faster but finishing five or ten places lower than last year.”

This year’s cross-country team is very young, being comprised of freshmen and sophomores only. Martin feels that his team needs the experience of this season’s difficult schedule to develop into mature runners.

“Experience is very, very important in races like this. You’ve got to know what kind of pace you can hold, when to make a move, when not to make a move and whether or not to go out fast or hold back. This sort of knowledge only comes from a lot of racing.”

PRE-HOLIDAY SALE!!

25% OFF

MOST GIFTS
ALL PLANTS
HOLIDAY ITEMS

Gallery Sale and A “Plan Ahead” Custom Framing Sale

We are placing on sale, for a limited time only, certain framed prints and graphics from our picture gallery.

Also, through November 13, we will give a ten percent discount allowance on all custom framing orders placed.

Plan now to beat the Christmas rush problems in giving a picture gift and take advantage of pre-season convenience and savings.

THE VILLAGE STORE
“Brings You A World of Gifts”