the davidsonian January 16, 1976

TENLEY SHEWMAKE SWALWELL

Senate report as AND BRAD

-Irv Wilson

Voting invalidated, new polls called

By BRAD SWALWELL

During this week’s Senate meeting, SGA President Bo Baskin invalidated two of last Tuesday's three senatorial elections on the grounds that SGA election regulations had not been followed. Baskin ruled that juniors Bob Palmer and Tony Snow and sophomore Steve Sparger had been illegally barred from their respective Class Senator elections. There will be new elections next Tuesday, January 20, for the classes of 1977 and 1978.

Baskin said that he acted under the authority of a clause in the SGA by-laws which directs the SGA President to “oversee the execution of all policies of the SGA.” “These policies were not carried out since three people were selectively barred from the ballot. Five people technically missed the mandatory meeting, but only these three were not allowed to run. Consequently, there will be new elections for the Class of ‘77 and Class of ‘78. All the people who originally filed for these two races, including Palmer, Snow, and Sparger, will be on the ballot,” said Baskin.

Baskin responded to a question as to why the race for Class of 1979 Senator was not included in his ruling. “The Class of '79 is not affected by my ruling since no one was barred from that particular election. My ruling is that all candidates who filed for office will be allowed to run. All the people who filed for the Class of '79 race were on last Tuesday's ballot. The three people elected to Class of 1979 positions were sworn-in at this week’s Senate meeting.”

In other action, Baskin announced several vacant student positions on the Senate and college committees. The Senate hopes to appoint a Belk Dorm Senator, a Student Administrator of the Security Force, several members of the Traffic Court, and at least one member of the Educational Policy Committee. Baskin encouraged students interested in any of these positions to contact any senator prior to Sunday’s Senate Executive Committee meeting.

-Leon Venable

The Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center is a private non-profit day care center providing out-of-home care for children age 2-5 whose parents work or go to school. Thirty-five children are now enrolled in the center.

Senate calls new elections, unprecedented move

By LYMAN COLLINS Assistant News Editor

Tuesday night, in an unprecedented action, SGA President Bo Baskin invalidated the results of the sophomore and junior class elections and called for new elections on Tuesday, January 20. “The elections were invalidated because all the candidates did not get equal protection under the SGA By-laws,” explained Baskin.

The problem goes back to a rule in the By-laws that states all candidates must attend an informational meeting within six hours of the filing deadline. All did not attend, and candidates Dean Eklund, Bob Palmer, Howard Payne, Tony Snow, and Steve Sparger were missing. Minutes after the conclusion of the meeting, Eklund and Payne arrived at the meeting. “We've always tried to keep them in on the meeting and placed their names on the ballot,” said Baskin. A few hours later, Junior Tony Snow also asked Baskin to place his name on the ballot; however, Baskin felt that he couldn’t.

TRICK OR TRUMP

By PHILIP DUNCAN Staff Writer

For the next three months, Davidson will host the Scholarship Competition of the American Contract Bridge League (ACBL). Davidson Junior Mike Russ is co-director of the tournament, the first of its kind in the country. “The ACBL wants...to promote bridge play by sponsoring these events at many colleges and universities. Baskin urged Snow to take the matter up with Elections Chairman George Reedy, who ruled that if Snow, as well as the other two candidates who failed to attend the meeting, could get a petition with all the other candidates’ signatures, he would place their names on the ballot. Meanwhile, some people began to question the officiality of the All Candidates meeting since Chairman Reedy was absent. SGA By-laws state that the candidates shall meet with the SGA President and the Chairman of the Election Board. “I think the meeting was official even though I wasn’t there,” commented Reedy. “After all, the meeting is for the candidates, not the chairman.” Elections were held Tuesday with Eklund and Payne on the ballot, but Palmer, Snow, and Sparger were missing. The issue came to a head Tuesday when SGA Parliamentarian Peyton Marshall registered a complaint concerning the elections to Baskin. In addition, several senators boycotted the meeting until Baskin invalidated the results.

“We hope a lot of Davidson students participate and make our tournament a success. Then the entire program will get off to a good start and other schools will sponsor competition,” said Russ. Duplicate bridge will be played on nine selected Friday nights through May. To be eligible for the $200 top prize, a player must participate on at least six of those nights. The same two players may be partners only four times. “We're publicizing the event on campus with posters, on WDAV, and by word of mouth. People from The Charlotte Observer will be up here to do a story on the tournament, and we may be able to [see RUSS, page 6].

“I'm afraid we got caught between a rock and a hard place,” said Baskin. “We really didn’t mean to get so tied up in By-law legality.” After his action, Baskin referred the issue back to Reedy who decided to allow all five of the candidates who filed but missed the meeting to be placed on the ballot. “It just wasn’t fair to allow some candidates to miss the meeting and still be on the ballot while others were excluded for the same reason. We felt that the new elections were the only way to be completely fair and treat all the candidates equally,” added Baskin. He further said that he regretted having to put the sophomore and junior candidates through the election treadmill once more. Freshman election results were not affected by the ruling.

“I apologize for the mistakes I made and wish I hadn’t made them. But now we have to look to the future. I don’t think there will be any long-range effects from this, but I do think we will have to review the By-laws and there may be some changes made,” concluded Baskin.

-Leon Venable

Cotton dust suit CONTINUED from page 1

facturers for their support in the 1972 Presidential election. “The NIOSH criteria document was finally completed in September 1974 and a formal petition for modification of the cotton dust standard was filed by TWUA on January 13, 1975, and joined by PIRG on February 28, 1975,” continued Stetin. “Thus, 15 months have now elapsed since the NIOSH findings and 11 months have gone by since the Union's petition was filed, and still no action has been taken,” said Stetin. “Our research has indicated that textile companies have used the five years of delay by the U.S. Department of Labor as an excuse for taking no significant action on their own to cut down the dangers of cotton dust exposure,” continued Stetin. “The only answer to this problem is firm, immediate action by Secretary Dunlop to issue an effective standard,” concluded Stetin.