‘The Davidsonian
September 17, 1976

——

Eleven take jaunt to Paris

By CAROLINE CROMARTIE
Staff Writer

Have you ever thought how nice it would be to spend a spring in France? That is what a group
of eleven students did last spring quarter under the direction of art history professor Larry Ligo, in the first art
history seminar abroad offered at Davidson College.

Dr. Ligo first developed the idea of traveling and studying art history ten years ago. Once he finished with his
doctoral dissertation, he was able to concentrate on the format he wanted to establish. The itinerary the first group followed
was not just hit-and-miss: Ligo traveled and camped through Europe and France setting up a well-planned day-by-day schedule, keeping a
journal of campsites, restaurants, and interesting details along the way.

The year before last he began to recruit prospects, but not enough interest was shown to make the trip. Last
fall he began again and successfully had eleven people definitely decide to attend. There were seven girls and four boys
ranging from freshmen to seniors. All arrangements were made throughout the fall and winter terms with the group meeting every
week to discuss and complete all details.

Gothic architecture and 19th-century painting were the two courses of emphasis in France. Each student was assigned a topic from
both courses on which a paper was written during winter term and the first two weeks of spring term. Finally,
on March 21, the group left Douglas Airport in Charlotte to fly to New York and there board an Icelandic
jet to head for Europe, taking one short stop in Iceland. Landing in Luxembourg, the students boarded a train to
Paris, home base for the group. The Hotel Star in the 15th arrondissement was the group’s home for the next
two months.

For the first week, study concentrated on 19th-century painters such as David and Delacroix at the Louvre. It was tough
managing the language, changing money, and learning how to get around a city like Paris. Most of the people in
the group were lost at least once. They may not have understood directions in French or been able to find
where they were on the map, but Paris is such a safe and friendly place, they could not be afraid.

The second week was spent in Chartres where each student lived with a family. Many went to bed every night
with a headache from trying so hard to carry on a fluent conversation. Malcolm Miller, an arrogant (to say the
least) English guide at Chartres Cathedral, gave lectures and tours every day including an exceptional tour into the towers, buttresses,
and roof of the cathedral.

The third week was spent in Paris. The first road trip through France began the fourth week. They rented three
Renaults which the group undoubtedly wore out with all the kilometers they racked up. They also rented camping equipment and
for the next two weeks they braved the elements: wind, rain, and cold.whole lot of rain, a little sun, rocky
ground, and even a little snow. As a team, they became the fastest tent-builders and air mattress inflators to the
point where they did not need a light to put the tent up. Campsites were very nice with hot showers
and restroom facilities. The excursion moved its way from Paris to [see ELEVEN, page 7]

Hashmi immortalizes himself
By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

The Oath and Amen is one-time Davidson College international student Alamgir Hashmi’s first book of poetry. It includes work he
has done over the past five years and consists mostly of love poetry and of poetry of loss and longing.
Hashmi’s work is not couched in the usual English rhetoric; Hashmi is a Pakistani, and was first published there. His
poetry conveys something of the high, occasionally almost formalized English that is spoken in the Indian subcontinent. Statements readily couched
in our American dialect, or in “the King’s English,” appear stilted, as in the poem “Season of Shivering in Sleeves,”
when Hashmi asks,

when my skyline succumbs to the earth as her body, how can I precisely scribe what precisely is it?

The partial language barrier apart, these poems are for the most part passable, and some are very good. Of the
love poems, “Statement of a Few Friendly Suggestions,” “Ghazal,” “We Know Dry Lips,” and “A Rejuvenation” stand out as emotive
and deceptively simple. It is perhaps this same simplicity, however, which detracts from certain other of Hashmi’s poems. Very few
of his pieces are grounded solidly within a world of sensible appearances; many of his images are abstractions which sometimes
border on the trite. Images of “the last acre,” or of “proletarian desire” do not engage the senses. What we
must look for in Hashmi’s poetry, then, is not a firm connection with the world of physical reality, but a
commitment to abstraction which is often difficult to make, especially when the abstractions are cross-cultural, as Hashmi’s are. Hashmi does
not write about America as such, nor about Pakistan as such, but leaves us with an emotive attachment to his
work which is hard to account for. It is formed through his use of abstractions and strange juxtapositions and somehow
remains despite his sometimes excessively fragmented love poems.

Hashmi’s “Distractions,” the last seven poems in The Oath and Amen, are not as abstract as his love poems. His
two “Images: About the House” poems are good reading, though still lacking a firm foundation, and “Six Studies of an
Image” attempts a multifaceted explanation of rain. Taken as a whole, The Oath and Amen makes good, but by no
means great, reading. Ideas and images do stand out occasionally; for instance, in the third stanza of “Snares” and in
“A Seasonal Urge,” and for mood poetry it isn’t bad. But as in much mood poetry, you must look hard
to find any stretch for the sky.

Lid. “Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Holiday Season Hours: 10-5:30, Mon.-Thurs. and Sat. 10-8:00 Friday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503
