October 1, 1976 The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor:

Military machine geared to destroy

To the Editor:

One of the statements most frequently spewed from the mouths of the military establishment is that “today’s military” is in some sense different from the pre-Viet Nam military. We are told that the military has assumed a defensive posture, that its new purpose is to defend our national borders and the borders of our allies. The “new” military seems therefore best defined by what it is not: it is not an offensive, aggressive organization of war mongers.

We beg to differ. As participants in the Army’s “Summer Camp Experience (?!), we offer comment on the mindset of the active Army personnel with whom we came into contact. Both at Basic Camp and Advanced Camp, we agree that the prevailing temperament emphasizes “killing.” This can take such varied forms as a propaganda film clip of General Patton’s famous speech on “war is mankind’s noblest pursuit” theme, to the simple cadences of physical training: ...“I wanna go to Viet Nam...I wanna kill ole Charlie Cong.”

We feel that the stated purpose of the military is superfluous and misleading. Whatever posture the military officially purports to hold, seems to us to be simply a question of the proper Pentagon rhetoric. The point is, the final and essential function of the military is to kill.

Christ wields sword

To the Editor:

Upon reading Rush Otey’s letter to the Editor on September 24, I must say I am quite shocked at his “option.” If we are truly a free society with freedom of choice, then cutting out the ROTC program would be eliminating one of our sources of this “free” choice. It is wrong to force ROTC on someone who does not want it, but it is equally wrong to have this objective closed for those who DO want it. Fortunately, Davidson College does not make its students join or not join ROTC; one has a CHOICE.

If one really believes in freedom and free education, then he must be ready and willing to support the defense of that freedom. I myself am not a member of the ROTC, but am very grateful to those who are there to protect my liberty. After all, the first settlers came to America in order to escape the totalitarian state that forbade free worship. Without protection against this type of oppression, we as free individuals could be subject to the same tyranny that we escaped from in the first place. And I for one wish to continue worshipping God freely, and not at the whim of some government-controlled religion.

And remember, it was Jesus who said in Matthew 10:34 “Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.” The backbone of Christianity is not just a “peace movement” per se, but as our Lord Jesus Christ implies, a protector also. Think about it.

Bob Sutton ’80
Davidson College

P.S. I am not a Fascist.

Disillusioning debate

[Continued from page 4]

Furthermore, the candidates were willing to use any and all tactics for the sake of personal advantage because so, too, are we. Ford will stoop to quoting what he knows are misquoted statements and Carter will, before the end, slip in some “Watergates” because both know we understand the cut-throat business that is politics and/or success of any kind. Personal pride (watch the powerful) is both a vanishing and a dangerous commodity.

And, finally, the candidates could conveniently reduce their entire campaigns to such epithets as “change” and/or “hold the lid” because that is basically the way we think. Conservatism and liberalism seem easier to grasp than either personality or plans. Indeed, the color of the backdrop, if lit spotlights Ford’s balding, is important because that is the general level on which we vote. The candidates need not quote the issues. They have been neatly listed in news magazines for months. More time need be spent on suit colors than economics, more time on suntans than reform.

Of course, the candidates knew the psychological impact of every word they uttered. Yes, it was mass hypnosis. Yes, it was 1984 in living color. But, yes, they did have us pegged. We, politics or not, react and value things and events the same as they. What we, as students, witnessed was not the “duping” of that mass of America which we, in our intellectual snobbery, call “the workers,” but a painfully clear-cut mirror image of how we operate.

And so, it was that I gladly returned to my books Thursday night, losing myself in the ancient myths of the Greeks and the complex vibrations of benzene. Yes, I was disillusioned at the candidates. Yes, I was sorry that my fellow students, for once responsive, were disillusioned also. But, in the end, I was disillusioned with the truth of what makes ourselves tick. Ford and Carter humiliated not themselves but us. Returning by the library, I noticed students were already in place. Most had been wise enough not to last till the end. “Thank God,” one could almost hear them say, “for...magazines. Praise even more for carrels. They, at least, don’t bite back.” It is not necessary to participate in a ROTC program to sense another selling point of the “new” military; i.e., the equating of civilian and military jobs. A subtle implication of the recent military and civilian occupations. Military training is even said to be of later benefit in civilian employment. We reiterate, one (especially those contemplating military service) should be clearly aware of the primary function of the military. Each member of its system in a final sense contributes to its efficiency of satisfying its primary and unchanging purpose: to kill. Each member is a cog in a machine designed to destroy.

Oliver Ramsey
Advanced Camp ’76
Ron Maines
Basic Camp '76
P.S. Joe McCarthy went to Hell.

To the Editor:

This is written in response to Rush Otey’s letter which appeared in the Davidsonian on September 24, 1976. I am a Christian with strong religious convictions and reverence for life. I am also an ROTC student because there are ideals which I value more than life. These ideals, which I think of collectively as freedom, are worth even killing and dying for. Controlled by the people it protects, a national army is the most realistic mechanism with which to ensure freedom. An army controlled by the people is one of the principles of ROTC. Educating officers at a liberal arts college rather than a military institution is one method of keeping the army under civilian control.

The U.S. Army has made mistakes, and it has been utilized in instances where its purpose, to defend freedom, did not apply. However, these mistakes do not make the defense of freedom an unworthy or un-Christian ideal. In Mere Christianity, C. S. Lewis notes that there are two Greek words meaning “to kill.” When Christ quotes the Sixth Commandment as recorded in Matthew, Mark, and Luke, he uses the verb meaning “to murder” as opposed to the ordinary “to kill.” Lewis goes on to say, “When soldiers came to John the Baptist asking what to do, he never remotely suggested they ought to leave the army: nor did Christ when he met a Roman sergeant major...”

I can respect a Christian pacifist, but I cannot accept the notion that a Christian must be a pacifist. Otey argues that “persons with religious and/or humanistic reverence for life” should be devoted to “the abolition of the causes of armed conflict...” He believes “feeding the hungry, clothing the naked...” are better activities than the destruction and domination of others, and I heartily agree. But in the real world, there will always be those whose ambitions include destruction and domination of others. History stands as evidence. This is why it’s good to have an army and an ROTC.

R. Russell Martin ’79
Davidson College

Title IX & new species

To the Editors of the Davidsonian:

Gentlepersons:

Surely everyone must be gratified by Davidson’s present status of compliance with Title IX. The college’s adherence to the letter of the ordinance was amply catalogued in your report on the findings of the Self-Study Committee; its sympathy with the spirit of Title IX shows up in such matters as linguistic usage. Formerly one often heard expressions based on the etymological assumption that generic “man” meant “one possessed of mind,” that is, a thinking being (homo sapiens), but the fallacy of this notion has been thoroughly disproved, and “man” has been displaced by “person” (a feminine noun of Etruscan origin signifying a mask used in play-acting). Chairpersons and freshpersons are now regularly encountered in Davidson parlance, and the race of asexual beings grows by daily additions of new species (linepersons, night-watchpersons, etc.).

Despite cheering improvements, problem areas still exist, such as the potentially hazardous retention of separate male and feperson choruses. A frontal attack upon these pernicious institutions might raise thorny related questions concerning the legality of string orchestras, woodwind ensembles, marble sculpture, monochromatic art, and like media which are clearly discriminatory in character. A better solution might be to enlist the aid of the Admissions sector in actively recruiting feperson tenors and basses, while the Infirmary might dispense free surgical assistance to those male students willing to make the requisite sacrifice in order to join the sopranos in the wopersons’ chorus.

At a time when we are alerted to some of our deficiencies in the Title IX area, it would be well to anticipate future quandaries before they become acute. The Association of Davidson Alumni/ae probably ought to rechristen themselves Alumna (neuter plural), the very name of the college is clearly no longer legally defensible (Davidscion might be passable, though it derives from a French masculine noun), and it is high time the public prayers at the college be concluded suitably “in the name of the Parent, the Progeny, and the Holy Breath,” (“spirit” deriving from a Latin masculine noun), Apersons!”

Dirk French
Professor of Classics

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.