the davidsonian

January 23, 1976

WILDCATTE CAGER NORA MCNEILL takes a jump shot as Cindy Morrison looks on in an earlier game against Pfeiffer.

-Pete Goodman

Davidson dominates statistics

Cartmill outlines expansion, discusses campus potential

By BILL WINKENWERDER
Staff Writer

Davidson College Director of Athletics Thom Cartmill recently revealed plans currently being made by the Athletic Department to renovate and expand existing athletic facilities.

Cartmill indicated that the expansion/renovation process is now in the planning stages as department officials are evaluating future needs, costs, and priorities. Cartmill said that these evaluations, along with consideration of Davidson’s present physical assets and competitive strengths, will be the basis on which expansion and future expenditures will be made.

“As I see it, Davidson has two important assets upon which we can build. We have a tremendous amount of interest in basketball, both on the intramural and inter-collegiate levels, and we have the potential to develop a national power.

Winthrop frustrates Cattes

By DAVE KELLER
Sports Editor

Davidson’s basketball Wildcattes lost last night to Winthrop 62-57 in their fourth road game since the New Year.

The ‘Cattes, whose record is now 3-6, dominated statistics with more shots and rebounds and fewer turnovers; but, according to assistant coach Ken Schmaeder, “we just couldn’t put it all together.”

Schmaeder said that Winthrop was “the biggest team we've played yet. They are a good team, with good shooting; several of our girls had excellent games, especially Nancy Matheny, but we just can’t handle a good scholarship team like Winthrop.”

Schmaeder feels that a number of other scholarship teams, such as Pfeiffer, caused similar problems for the ‘Cattes. “We have a hard time finding girls who can get in Davidson and at the same time play really good basketball. The standouts are going where they will get paid and won’t have to work so hard, just like in men’s athletics.”

The ‘Cattes have won two matches this month, the first over Converse and the second a convincing 56-37 victory over UNCC. Losses have been to Augusta, High Point, and Furman, the last a disappointing 49-48 defeat. “That loss at Furman was mainly because of poor offense--we shot terribly. Defense was great,” said Schmaeder.

“In most of our games we've been very inconsistent; weak in one area and strong in another,” Schmaeder commented. “The past few games we've been especially good on defense.”

The ‘Cattes travel to Mars Hill Monday night and face Anderson Junior College at home on Wednesday. Anderson, a heavily-scholarshipped team which was the national junior college championship team last year, is one of the toughest teams on the schedule. Both games start at 7 pm.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE DRAMA DEPARTMENT PRESENTS:

“Curse You, Jack Dalton!” a melodrama by Wilbur Braun with an all-star cast

Plus: Entertainment by Artists of World-Renown

Showtimes for suspense and intrigue:
Friday, Jan. 23 11 p.m.
Saturday, Jan. 24 11 p.m.
Sunday, Jan. 25 2:30 p.m.

“Secondly, we have a great amount of land for facility expansion and a beautiful lake campus that could be further developed.”

Cartmill feels that there are three intercollegiate sports that Davidson has potential for major success with: basketball, tennis, and sailing.

“We have the potential for strong programs in all of these areas, and I think we have the ability to successfully compete on a national level. With improvements in our lake campus facilities, we could certainly produce a strong sailing team,” he said.

When reminded of sorely needed gym facilities for intramurals and general student use, Cartmill indicated that the student population has not been forgotten in the future plans.

“The general students are very much a part of our plans,” he said. “In fact, most of our new facilities will be built in response to their needs.”

“Right now we want to expand Johnston Gymnasium by moving out through the wall opposite the football field. The new gymnasium, containing three basketball floors, six squash and handball courts, and an Olympic-sized swimming pool, will be located on what is now the parking lot overlooking the tennis courts.”

“Additional seating will probably be installed in the old gym and its front end will be renovated to provide for more office space and a large lobby,” added Cartmill.

Besides expansion of gym facilities, future plans also call for a four-court indoor tennis building which would be located in the wooded area north of the varsity tennis courts.

“This would provide year-round tennis playing and would greatly enhance our ability to attract top tennis players,” said Cartmill.

Another aim of the massive athletic renovation plan is a golf course. This would be located on what is now intramural fields and the surrounding wooded areas. New intramural fields will be located in the area above the present baseball diamond.

Cartmill cautioned against hopes for near-future construction of new facilities. “Construction on the gym expansion will probably be at least three years away and other construction will follow.”

“However, we might begin work on the golf course within the next year, as it will only be three holes initially.”

Clearance SALE

Sweaters
Sportshirts
Sportcoats
Pants
Leisure Suits
Jackets
Turtle Necks
Hiking Shoes
and Winter Suits

Come Save!

Open Friday Nights

John Meck & Son
Mooresville