September 24, 1976

“Now it’s like this. What is, is...”
-Hunter Jennings

Davidsonian alternative serves other interests

By CHUCK KENNON
Managing Editor

Davidson students are treated nine times a year to a journalistic alternative to their weekly Davidsonians: the Davidson Update, edited
by Earl W. “Buck” Lawrimore, Director of the News Bureau. The Update has existed in its present tabloid form for
five years, first under the direction of Russell Strong, and since 1974 under Lawrimore’s guidance.

Students have frequently felt that the Update exists solely to function as the mouth organ for the college Administration. Two
conclusions inevitably stem from this supposition, namely that the Update is only willing to picture a goodness-and-light view of Davidson
College, and therefore there is an implicit rivalry or even antagonism between the Update and the Davidsonian.

Lawrimore responded to this situation by stating that there are two sides to the issue: “Everybody accuses the Davidsonian of
showing just the negative side of Davidson.” He continued by saying that both organizations are approaching a more comfortable middle
ground, where “in the last two years the Davidsonian has become much more positive and the Update is more willing
to include negative or at least challenging material.”

But Lawrimore claimed that neither paper could show a perfectly balanced view of campus life and needs. This is because
of the different constituencies they serve and the different function these audiences serve within the college community. Lawrimore explained that,
“Problems besetting students, such as laundry or controversy over parking tickets, don’t really concern alumni. And the Davidsonian exists to
entertain and inform the students, not their parents and alumni. Also, the Update is being used increasingly as an effective
media to reach the public as commercial media are more reluctant to use material from institutional sources.” He added that
Davidson had traditionally relied on the Charlotte news media and “they can’t always devote time to us, as they’re swamped
by the two Carolinas.”

He believes that the campus turmoils of the late sixties shattered, as he put it, “the illusion of higher education
as the great white hope of America, so now stories on higher education are measured by the news media according
to their relevance to potential readers. Private liberal arts colleges don’t seem as relevant as state and junior colleges.” Hence
the optimistic tone of the Update; it has a product to sell in a very competitive market. Still, Lawrimore feels
that the college needs both the Update and the Davidsonian. “There are things that are of primary concern to the
immediate campus and some that are of primary concern to alumni. A healthy rivalry is always good for these audiences,
because it makes both work harder,” he said.

Today’s students are tomorrow’s alumni, and so the Update has the task of appealing to them now as well as
a very diverse body of people interested in and involved with the college. Lawrimore is accordingly in the process of
attempting to broaden the base of the paper’s staff. He hopes this will result in a more varied body of
stories in each issue. “I personally wrote more than half of the stories in the past issue,” he stated, adding,
“but this varies from issue to issue, as Martha Roberts (Director of Communications Department) usually has some stories, and there
are students who contribute.”

Lawrimore went on to say, “Next issue will have a story on freshman orientation and one or two other stories
by students. We would like to include something by Mary Lou Dietler (Dean of Women) and hope to involve other
selected staff members.”

He then stressed that the Update is capable of publishing any valid criticisms a student cared to offer. “For two
years I’ve invited any student with a negative opinion to submit it as a letter to the editor and unless
it was malicious I’d be glad to run it. Students, though, tend to realize that the Update goes out to
23,000 people and they...don’t want to make fools of themselves,” he elaborated. Lawrimore concluded by saying that “President Samuel Reid
Spencer, Junior, is in full concurrence with the Update being open to all spectrums of opinion about the college. As
an example, he sent me a thousand-word blast from a member of the class of 1935, criticizing the college about
being too liberal. Spencer said we could print it and I’ve written the alumnus for permission to run it.”

So, who has time to read?

Tryon conveys moods but misses profundities

By KATHY LONG
Staff Writer

Lady will never be a classic—basically because Tryon’s pen lacks subtlety. He intends, obviously, to make several moral (or philosophical)
statements concerning ideas ranging from friendship to eternity: so he does precisely that. He makes the statements, rather than allowing
them to evolve naturally in the context of his total story. Perhaps he is working in the wrong genre to
express any profundities; his style seems to point toward the essay.

Apart from the clumsily initiated social statements, Lady is a very nice little book. It is a bittersweet tale of
love and betrayal—and betrayal and betrayal. It is a tale of a boy growing older in wisdom and stature as
he suffers the pain of a remarkable, intense love (platonic) with a remarkable, intense woman. This woman, Lady, is the
focal point of the novel. She exudes such a powerful aura of mystery and charm that even after the final
revelations at the end of the book she is still half-hidden by shadows. But what shadows! Tryon has a gift
for creating moods, and the atmosphere he creates around Lady is both strong and convincing.

Lady is told from the perspective of a mature and maturing man looking backward to his childhood and finding new
interpretations, new joys, and new sorrows in his relationship with the town and era in which he lived—and especially in
his relationship with Lady herself. Lady is very much an enigma. Part of her mystery is created by extensive (and,
incidentally, rather clumsy) foreshadowing, and part is created by the use of time-misted little-boy perceptions of her glory.

Both in childhood and in maturity the narrator of the story, Woody, is remarkable only in his capacity for being
loved. He is often petty, occasionally amusing, and less often heroic. But his very lack of glitter serves to highlight
Lady’s glamorous nature. Because of Lady’s love for him, Woody becomes the mirror in which Lady’s features are reflected and
distorted—sometimes into beauty and sometimes into ugliness. In him, too, are reflected the hundred trivial reactions of a conservative New
England town.

The reactions are many and strong. Lady is far more advanced in her thinking than most of her fellow villagers.
(By “advanced” I mean that she has shed some of the more conventional moral restrictions—whether for good or ill, I
don’t know.) Because they cannot understand her, the townspeople alternate between frightened confusion and wondering admiration in their regard for
Lady. Woody reflects this, and more, in his narrative. He also reveals his own confusion about Lady: his love and
his hatred of her, his struggle to reconcile his many conflicting impressions of her. But, though he attacks Lady’s enshrouding
shadows with vigor throughout the book, he never completely dispels them.

Lady is light, fun reading. Pick it up if you happen, by some miracle, to have a couple of spare
hours.

(If you would like to know something about a book before tackling it yourself—or if you would simply like to
have another opinion about a book you've already read—send your suggestions to me in W112. I’ll appreciate it!)

Special Surprise Concert: Chris Hillman

FORMERLY of the Byrds, the Souther, Hillman, Furay Band, and the Flying Burrito Brothers.

8:00 pm Saturday, September 25. Love Auditorium. Student and date tickets $1.00 with ID. General public $2.00. Box office opens
6:00 pm the day of the show only in Chambers lobby. Doors open at 7:30 pm.

Smith (incle, Cornelius 892-7800
