April 16, 1976

The Davidsonian

Exposure aids admissions
[Continued from page 4]

The fame Lefty brought to Davidson was reflected not only in glowing accounts of college life within the covers of
Sports Illustrated (circ. two million plus), but in national television exposure in both pre-season and post-season play. Exposure, which included
several trips to Madison Square Garden, surely did no harm to the admissions picture, and contrary to popular opinion, helped
enhance the institution’s academic reputation.

The accomplishments of those classes bear us out: witness Davidson’s domination of the GE College Bowl, burgeoning acceptance rates to
professional schools (which surpass our slumping records this year), a wealth of graduate school fellowships, and the plaudits of many
well-known publications. For a school of 1000 males, we were doing all right. Many professors now long for the good
old days; days where they could openly resent the basketball program, enjoy national fame, and teach good students.

Other facets of college life have fluctuated with the fate of the basketball program. For instance, many alumni contribute more
money to a school with a nationally prominent athletic team. The school’s extraordinary relationship with the national press encouraged large
donations and gave alumni a sense of pride in their school. In short, the reputation of the college improved steadily
with the success of the basketball team. Furthermore, campus morale was significantly higher than it is today. After all, how
many small liberal arts colleges can enjoy a dominant basketball team, a pastoral campus, and a fantastic academic reputation? It
was like having your cake and eating it too. Sure, Harvard can snub athletics with a dilettantish sneer, but they
can rely on a $2 billion endowment and the best minds and facilities in the world. We do not have
that option. Basketball was our ticket to prominence.

In the face of these facts, it is hard to understand any attempt to squash a bid for a second
honeymoon with the national press. Common sense commends a move back to basketball. And for the academic purist, the record
of graduating roundball greats is anything but a source of embarrassment. A partial list reads like this: Don Davidson ‘65—Pennsylvania
Med. School, Bill Jarman ‘63—UNC Med. School, Steve Kirley ‘71—Bowman Gray Med. School, John Pecorak ‘72—UNC Med. School, Danny Carrell
‘63—Stanford Law School (he was also a Rhodes Scholar), Pinky Hatcher ‘68—Yale Law School, Wayne Huckel ‘69—NYU Law School, D.G.
Martin ‘62—Yale Law School. One can almost hear the academic festival overture in the background.

In short, the naive assumption that competitive athletics and bona fide scholarship are incommensurable is a false one. In fact,
athletic prowess is not synonymous with mongolism. Ask Bill Bradley. If faculty logic holds, professors at Princeton must be the
laughing stock of the entire Eastern Coast. After all, they have maintained a competitive basketball program for the past 15
years. If faculty logic holds, professors at Princeton must be cringing in their carrels at the thought of a Davidson
professor’s disdain of their top 20 basketball team. Imagine! An Ivy League institution whose students succeed in non-academic activities! It’s
enough to make a Davidson Gentleman...

By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Flash was worried and his face showed it. Things had not been going well for him since his arrival at
the Academy. It seemed to him that every day brought him news of a fallen comrade. The use of the
word “fallen” always caused him to chuckle, it was so military. Disappeared would be more accurate. At first, there were
just rumors about a missing floor of new cadets. Then a few of his fellows began disappearing. Now he was
the only one left on his floor. Where had they gone? Why had they disappeared? His fear was so all-consuming
he did not notice the glowing ball in the center of the room.

1. Why did the Lone Ranger summon his horse by shouting “Hi-yo Silver”?
2. What does Shazam stand for?
3. What kept Vulcan suspended in the air in Flash Gordon?
4. _______ was the valet of the Green Hornet.
5. Who was the Shadow’s lovely companion?

6. What was the relationship of Bruce Wayne to Robin?
7. _______ was the real name of the Green Lantern?
8. How did Plastic Man attain the ability to change his shape?
9. From which century is Buck Rogers?
10. What was the name of the underground city in Gene Autry’s sci-fi serial, The Phantom Empire?

Answers:
1. STYM JOU PfNoo
2. orpei uO JeSuByY QUOT 4SIIJ 04
3. loulveg 9081g
4. Ammoiny
5. seytmoy
6. snoz
7. seizy
8. Sso[noiepy
9. uOsuIBg
10. AZ10u00 ey} pepraoid seoeuiny dIWIORY

In short, the naive assumption that competitive athletics and bona fide scholarship are incommensurable is a false one. In fact,
athletic prowess is not synonymous with mongolism. Ask Bill Bradley. If faculty logic holds, professors at Princeton must be the
laughing stock of the entire Eastern Coast. After all, they have maintained a competitive basketball program for the past 15
years. If faculty logic holds, professors at Princeton must be cringing in their carrels at the thought of a Davidson
professor’s disdain of their top 20 basketball team. Imagine! An Ivy League institution whose students succeed in non-academic activities! It’s
enough to make a Davidson Gentleman...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

upset his tea and croutons. It may be painful to admit, but an encyclopedia salesman named Charles G. Driesell and
15 barbarians put Davidson College on the map. The national map, that is. Davidson emerged as one of the finest
educational institutions in America, attracting the cream of the high school crop. And that attraction may have been due more
to Fred Hetzel’s jump shot than to the pedagogical exploits of our mentors. This is not to deprecate the abilities
of the faculty; Davidson would not have attracted excellent students were it not for a superior faculty. That is what
separates us from Austin Peay State University. But it remains true that they have the opportunity to teach better students
as a result of basketball prominence. And as for scholastic embarrassment, the faculty’s worries are unwarranted. Princeton has maintained a
competitive basketball program for the past 15 years; Penn and Columbia have also shared the national spotlight. Stanford’s storied athletic
history has not necessitated wholesale enrollment of cretins, and Yale’s past domination of swimming competition is well known.

To top it all off, last weekend Duke University announced a new $13 million fundraising drive for athletic scholarships and
facilities. Long live Dave Pritchett!

Noble reveals gifts, returns to write again

By JASON NOBLE, Staff Writer

I, a staff writer, not of the Davidsonian but for it, I greet thee reader and lover of comic books.
May the vapors of Vishanti envelope your vision. I am astounded! Did I not write to you of truth, giving
you messages of my heart, messages of truth, and how am I now met? My articles are halved, and my
parentheses are unscrupulously edited; let us not forget the monstrosity of totally altering my headline. Are you, O editors, so
concerned over your petty journalistic legalities that you honor them above this word. [Yes.] Regular articles take absolute precedence over
passages of light and beauty! You deceive yourselves! You cannot gain the eternal by adhering to the transient. And so
I retreated from you and in my anger, left you without my treats (as if you might have noticed, the
review was missing last week). But I forgive you (especially since no other paper would even think of printing this
exercise in uselessness). Therefore, herein do I continue to reveal that which was given to me, not from Davidson, but
from Marvel and from Atlas and all those others.

As you may recall (you will be tested on this letter) as you recall in my last writing(s) (did you
actually think I’d forgive you?) I spoke of the loner, of the individual who by him/herself actualized their goals as
only the singular person is capable. Well, a new revelation was bestowed to me just this past weekend. (Among other
things which are irrelevant at this moment) which inevitably altered this previous conception (this is not to say I was
mistaken, a foolish idea indeed) merely I was presented with but half-truth, and in my enthusiasm did overemphasize a bit.
(What I said still holds, maybe not as much). Companionship and teamwork is just as important (if not more so,
but not by much) as singular accomplishments (God did create women just to give women a rest), with this in
mind let us turn our minds to the super groups.

Fantastic Four: billed as “the greatest comic in the world,” FF (as those in the know, say) fails to live
up to its logo. This comic has unfortunately suffered the same fate as Spiderman: monstrous mediocrity due to mass reader
demands. Not much really to say here (I’m just really feeling nasty at the moment); artwork is pretty much consistently
acceptable and the writing is pretty much standard. A feeling of restraint (at experimentation) is felt to emanate from the
copy as one turns page after page of predictable, stereotype superhero bit. Perhaps its most redeeming value is its frequent
introduction of new characters (i.e. Silver Surfer, Black Panther), some of which have been developed enough to merit their own
magazine (i.e. Silver Surfer, Black Panther); however, periodical personality guest starring does not a worthwhile comic make.

The Avengers: many were the times in my naive, innocent, uninnocuous youth when it seems that the new Avengers had
arrived was I thrown into violent ecstasy, knowing full well that I would soon have in my eager hands the
world’s mightiest superheroes. Many are the times in my experienced, guilty (?), knowing maturity (or a close facsimile, condemns the
Davidson experience) (Don’s got me wrong, I love this school or else I wouldn’t be here, right), when finding new
Avengers have come, I am slung into passive indifference, knowing full well...

[See NOBLE, p/11]
