October 1, 1976

the davidsonian

—————

Cross-country kills common sense

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

Rain or shine, they trek around campus every day: each step becoming more difficult, the pain growing more intense.

And yet, contrary to what they would have us believe, Davidson’s cross-country runners are not engulfed by suicidal tendencies or
masochistic thoughts of running until they drop from fatigue. While they are bound toward a common goal, each achieves his
aim in a unique fashion, as varied as their custom-made shoes.

Differences are evident even before the race begins—in the manner in which the runners prepare for a meet.

Doug Horn, captain of the cross-country team, often begins thinking about a big meet the week before, and has even
been known in the past to mumble the names of opponents in his sleep. At the other end of the
spectrum, freshman Jeff Morrow tries to block the whole thing from his mind.

George Strobel becomes so keyed up at times he has been unable to eat. Contrast this with Zack Murrell, who
ingests assorted candy bars.

Even with everyone concentrating on running hard during the race (“No pain, no gain,” said one disillusioned upperclassman.), the thoughts
fleeting through long-distance runners’ heads vary.

Ed Anderson thinks about catching the guy in front of him, while Jeff Morrow likes to look at the clouds
and other scenery. Others mentioned concentrating on hills, setting up turns, and pulling teammates along.

One runner (who remains unidentified to protect him from Coach Sterling Martin’s wrath) contemplates faking an injury to avoid finishing
the race.

Once the race is completed and the pressure and tension end, not everyone is relieved. For Doug Horn, his time
and finish determine his reaction.

George Strobel is never satisfied, yet Zack Murrell and Jeff Morrow have a feeling of accomplishment after having pushed themselves
for six miles.

So, the next time one of these long-distance runners crosses your path, just think to yourself, “One of those guys
wants to be a horse,” or “Is he the one who always hears footsteps?” Because yes, some of those guys
do.

Ladies’ field hockey opens

By EARNIE CHURCH
Staff Writer

Susan Roberts, the newest addition to the PE faculty and coach of the women’s field hockey team, says that the
team’s chances for a winning season are very good.

There has been a large turnout for the practices and quite a few of the girls have had high school
playing experience. A former player herself at Ohio University, Roberts was surprised to find such quality material here at Davidson.

Many of the girls playing attended private schools in the North and were first exposed to the sport there.

Davidson scrimmaged Catawba College last Thursday and won rather handily, 3-1, as the whole team saw action.

Roberts said that the team will depend largely on its front line play and a strong defense during the fall
campaign.

“I’m really excited about this season since we have had such a large turnout and I think the sport will
gain in popularity on campus as the season progresses. You know, this is the only sport Davidson has that a
large number of girls can participate in; we have a good basketball program, but more girls can become involved in
field hockey,” said Kirk Cameron, a returning player.

The team played its first game this Thursday against High Point College. The girls will play a total of seven
regular season games and participate in the Deep South tournament, November 4-6.

Rugby squad routs Abbey

By MARK HESS
Staff Writer

The Davidson College rugby team opened its season here last Saturday with a 16-4 victory in a rain-soaked match against
Belmont Abbey.

The game, which saw all of its scoring occur in the first half, was completely dominated by the Wildcat ruggers.
They racked up three tries and two field goals, while holding Belmont Abbey to a single try.

In the second half, both teams were repeatedly bogged down in the quagmire as field conditions degenerated. Also, the ball
became increasingly difficult to handle and continually squirted from the grasp of ball-carriers.

Because of the sloppy field conditions, both squads had trouble getting the ball out to their backs. But the Cat
midfield men rose to the occasion and overpowered the Belmont Abbey scrums to lead Davidson to victory.

The ruggers, who are coached by Capt. William DeVaughan, play their toughest game this Saturday against Columbia. The action begins
at 2 pm on the lower soccer field.
