Jackson Clarifies Stance on National
By BILL BARNES
News Editor

Assistant Professor of Art Herb Jackson confirmed that the 1976 Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition will be the last under his direction. Jackson feels that he can no longer run the National under the present circumstances. Nor does he want to. There seems to be a certain interest in keeping the National at Davidson. “But,” said Jackson, “the College only seems to want to keep it insofar as it’s not a major expense. The school would be happy to keep it under its past circumstances.”

“The College doesn’t need to keep the National,” said Jackson, “But we are known in every state in the union and the show brings culture here we otherwise wouldn’t have. It brings people, and it’s a benefit to the College, the community, and the great community of artists in general.”

One of Jackson’s reasons for ceasing to administrate the National is that it takes too much time out of both his teaching and his work as an artist. Jackson estimates that he spends 1200 hours a year working on the exhibition, a job which includes packing and repacking each show, gathering sponsors, cataloguing entries, accepting and rejecting entries, finding a juror, and a mass of correspondence. “There are people who would consider administering the National a full-time job,” said Jackson.

Jackson feels that the amount of work he puts into the National affects his other pursuits. His painting suffers because he cannot spend as much time in his studio as he wishes to, while his classes suffer because he has less time to devote to teaching.

There has been speculation as to why it is necessary for a professional art person to run the National. According to Jackson, there are things which could be done by a non-professional, “assuming they are trained and highly responsible.” These duties include “dealing with the mailing list, unpacking the packages, repacking the packages, and picking them up at the Post Office. There are, however, portions of the work that need to be done by a professional. “No one can be fully aware of this job,” said Jackson, “unless they had an intimate association with it.”

The communications between Jackson and the artists participating in the National, the acquiring...

CASH ONLY: John Byrd draws a beer at the 900 Room bar.
-Leon Venable

[see JACKSON, page 3]

Scott Gives 900 Room Rule, 66
By JOHN PARKERSON
Staff Writer

Currently, 900 Room policy allows any Davidson student and anyone else over eighteen years of age entrance. Students under eighteen are on their honor not to buy or drink beer, while non-students under eighteen may enter only if accompanied by a parent. “Director of Food Services Ron Scott handles the beverage service and, as such, has a business to protect,” said Chairman of the Union Social Committee Robert M. Mayer. “You've got to be very strict.”

Honors Deanship Changes, Avinger to Control Center
By LYMAN COLLINS
Assistant News Editor

On March 1, Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, Professor of Philosophy and Dean of the Honors Center, will rotate out of his position as dean. He will be replaced by Dr. Robert L. Avinger Jr., Professor of Economics who will serve for a three-year term. “The decision was made through a series of negotiations between the Vice President for Academic Affairs and the department chairman,” explained MacCormac. The dean, and all professors in the Honors...Center, are chosen for two or three-year terms after which they rotate out. "At the end of the Spring term Professors Proctor, Patterson, and Bliss will rotate out," said MacCormac. While in the Honors Center, professors, who are required by the college to teach at least six courses a year, teach three regular courses in their departments and at least three courses in the Honors Center. Those in the Honors Center include at least: one seminar, one series of tutorials, and one research-independent study project. "When I came into the program three years ago, I wanted to ensure and maintain high academic standards in all areas," said MacCormac. "Also, I wanted the honors student to be consistent with a liberal education. We are just beginning to build a good relationship with departmental honors," he continued. "We've had a particularly happy relationship with the history department, as well as the biology department."

Incoming Dean Avinger explained that while he had not really gotten into the mechanics of the Honors Center as yet, he did see his major emphasis. "I see in addition to what’s going on now more interdisciplinary work. It would mostly include stuff in social sciences and humanities and some hard science but I’m not trained in that stuff. [see AVINGER, page 3] You’ve got to set a limit somewhere. Not allowing anyone other than a student under eighteen into the room unless they are with their parents is one way of doing this."

"There is a drinking problem on this entire campus," said Mayer. "Wherever we are, as the Union, serving wine or beer, there’s always the worry, backed by experience, that someone will get very messed up and create some problems for us and themselves. We do not have nor do we want bouncers. Instead, we assume that students will have enough control to know when they are inebriated, to know when they are causing a hassle and to remove themselves," said Meyer. Scott noted that students know when to leave, but that he has more trouble with people who are not associated with the College.

Union Director C. Shaw Smith is against the use of meal tickets for beer purchases at the bar. He sees this as a matter of the trustees’ stipulation that the 900 Room provide, but not encourage, beer sales. Smith would, however, favor lower beer prices. Mayer is in favor of using meal tickets to purchase beer. "I’d love it," he said. "A student could go out and buy meal tickets for less than face value and spend them on beer. But as a part of the Union it would complicate things." Scott sees "no way" for meal tickets to be used as tender at the bar.

The principal reason why meal tickets are not used for beer and sandwich sales in the 900 Room is expense to the freshmen. At present, the 900 Room is self-supporting, as are the other food service outlets on campus. The Food Service is based on income from the meal tickets, the Snack Bar, special functions, and the two eating houses. Eliminating cash in the 900 Room would cause an increase in prices to meal ticket holders, according to Scott, who also sees his position as one of trying to provide beer and sandwiches in the bar, as opposed to essentials.

Laurie Engaman
Paul Bradley
Sam Crawford
Timothy Goodell
Randy Haynes
Lee Anne Lewis
Michaela Murphy
N. C. Fellows - Class of 1979
Peggy Noel
John Parkerson
Maria Patterson
Vance Polley
Steve Porter
Rusty Vester
Kathy Wolf