the davidsonian March 26, 1976

Union investigation confirms 900 Room funding deficit

An audit of college union financial records has verified the earlier reported overspending by several union committees, according to Union Finance Committee Chairman Brad Swalwell. The audit, which has been underway since the overspending was first reported to the Union Board on January 22, shows three committees have spent more than their allotted budgets.

“The 900 Room and the Social Vice President’s contingency budget are the deepest in the red,” said Swalwell. The 900 Room is $690 overspent and the contingency fund for Union Vice President Robert M. Mayer is $320 over.

Swalwell said that his committee is charged with auditing the financial records and with presenting recommendations on how to improve the record-keeping system. Swalwell indicated that, although the entire committee had not met to discuss recommended changes in the system, he had some ideas for improvements in mind.

“First of all, there need to be controls placed on when a committee can overspend its budget. To place a committee under a budget, only to have it violated virtually at will, is no better than operating without a budget.

“Somebody, either the president, one of the two vice presidents, the director, or even the full board, should have to approve any overspending by any committee,” said Swalwell.

Swalwell added that the controls must be placed so that they are effective during the planning stages of union activities, before any obligations are incurred through contracts. As an example, Swalwell noted that the 900 Room has contracted for $1300 worth of acts to be given during Spring term. “This is an obligation now; it is spent, just as if a check had been written for it,” he said.

Swalwell also said he saw problems with the method which the Union Board uses to allocate funds to the various committees. “Several committees appear to have been allocated either much more or much less than they need.

“For instance, the arts and crafts committee was given $1000 in September; as of February 29, they have not spent any of it. The dance committee was allocated $2000—they have spent less than $70.

“Then there is the 900 Room, running almost $700 over, not counting their spring bookings. The apartment that the Union keeps for entertainers wasn’t even considered when the budget was made. That’s $2000 a year.

“Something is wrong somewhere. The board needs to scrutinize budget requests thoroughly. They must come up with a better way of evaluating their committee’s needs, and allocate accordingly,” said Swalwell.

Swalwell elaborated on the committees which were overspent. “The 900 Room is not in as bad a shape as was first reported,” he said. “The January 22 report to the Union Board puts the 900 Room running almost a $2500 deficit.

“Several old receipts for money deposited with the Comptroller’s Office turned up. This money was only recently credited to the records,” said Swalwell. “That, combined with money received recently as admissions charges to the 900 Room have reduced the deficit to its present level,” he said.

KING OF PIZZA, INC. 241 South Broad Street Mooresville, Phone 663-3030 North Carolina

The third committee with a negative balance is the Outing Club. “Karl Goodhouse (Union President) has assured me that this situation has been remedied, however,” said Swalwell.

Swalwell emphasized that the College Union as a whole is not overspending. “What has happened is that several groups have spent more than the Board said they could spend. The fact that many other committees have spent way under their allowances puts the Union as a whole in the black,” he said.

Swalwell added that the figures presented to Goodhouse were not completely final. The Union’s figures on money deposited in the Comptroller’s Office agree with the Comptroller’s records. “What remains to be done is matching what the Union says it has paid out with what the Comptroller’s Office says they have paid.”“out,” said Swalwell. “This is a long and tedious process. I’ll have to go through both sets of books and match up all the debits. Also, I have to check and see that all the expenses are charged against the proper committee,” he said.

Outside Perspectives

Spencer criticizes Davidsonian

A. Clayton Spencer, a junior at Williams College and daughter of Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., has criticized the Davidsonian for its coverage of the college’s abandonment of the practice of paying hall counselors. In a front-page story in the Williams Record, Miss Spencer charged that The Davidsonian blew out of proportion a statement by Dean of Students Will H. Terry on the end of hall counselor pay. The Record erroneously attributed to Terry the statement, “I found out that Williams College...did not pay its junior advisors. I said, ‘by golly, if they can do it why can’t we?’” The statement was in fact made by Dr. Spencer. Miss Spencer told The Record that her father had asked her if Williams’ junior advisors were paid, but said that other issues were the major factors in his decision to cut out hall counselor pay. Miss Spencer is quoted in The Record as saying, “Williams was not that great an influence. It was used as a rationalization, an example.”

Job market bleak

The College Placement Council in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania has released the results of a survey which shows a bleak job market for college graduates. The survey showed that the number of job offers for people with bachelor’s degrees is down 16 percent from March a year ago. The number of offers for this year’s graduates is less than last year, which itself was a bad year to find a job. The areas hardest hit, according to the survey, are jobs for people with degrees in the humanities and social sciences. Job offers in these two areas dropped 26 percent.

Committee announces gift, seniors to build classroom

By ANDREW LAMAS
Senior News Editor

Solicitation of funds from seniors for their class gift, an outdoor classroom, began Friday, March 19. “Members of the Senior Class Gift Committee will be around to see each person in the class by Sunday, March 28. We are asking for at least $15 from each member of the senior class. This has been the amount asked of seniors in the past three or four years,” explained a spokesman for the Senior Class Gift Committee.

The outdoor classroom, which is to be located in the wooded area behind the Martin Chemistry Building, will be circular and thirty feet in diameter.

SENIOR GIFT: A partial view of the planned outdoor classroom. The classroom will rest on a brick and sand base and will contain five fixed tables and eleven benches, providing for a seating capacity of thirty-three people.

“In the center of the classroom will be an open space, fifteen feet in diameter, which will readily lend itself to small dramatic performances and oral presentations. In addition, the classroom could be used for outdoor study, small informal lectures and class discussions, providing an alternative to the indoor classroom,” commented the committee spokesman.

“Our financial goal is $2300 to $2500. And, if everything proceeds as planned, we would like to see the classroom built by the end of Spring term,” remarked the spokesman.

In a preference poll among seniors for the class gift, the outdoor classroom received the most votes. Other suggestions on the ballot were a microfilm printer, a community housing project, a gift fund for college staff members, and the framing of a portion of the college’s art collection.

The ten members of the Gift Committee are: Martin Eakes, Dave Francis, Dave Mayberry, Don Benson, Bobby Mendenhall, Rick Roylance, Cosby Swanson, John Taylor, Hadley Wilson, and Bill Reed.