The Davidsonian, January 30, 1976

Company Plan: A News Analysis
By MEG CAMPBELL, Staff Writer

Ingersoll-Rand, an international machinery and equipment company, announced on Tuesday, December 1, that its PAC-AIR Compression Division had plans to construct a new plant north of Davidson. Construction has begun on the 118-acre site located on a peninsula of Lake Norman. According to the company’s presentation, it will be an all-electric plant with planned energy systems to maximize the use of natural topography. The assembly plant will be built first, but engineering, marketing, sales, and finance departments will also be located at the site. In fact, this project—valued in excess of five million dollars—will eventually be the worldwide headquarters for Ingersoll-Rand’s PAC-AIR Division.

“Not my business”
The arrival of such a large corporation has caused conflict. “I do not have a great deal of factual information about it. It is none of my nor anyone else’s business,” said Mayor Thomas Sadler. “I think someone is just trying to stir the pot.” An article in the Wednesday, December 2, 1975 issue of The Mecklenburg Gazette touched off the debate. The article, announcing the company’s construction, drew immediate reaction from the Assistant Minister of Davidson College Presbyterian Church, Rev. Rush Otey. Otey raised several questions: To what extent was the town’s population involved in the decision? Will public funds be used to subsidize Ingersoll-Rand’s demand for water and sewage? If so, why Davidson, since the plant is located in Iredell County? Were environmental impact studies made by the town?

Duke Power
Is there any connection between the sale of the town’s power system to Duke Power and the arrival of Ingersoll-Rand? Otey said that “it is intriguing that land for the new plant was purchased from Duke Power’s land subsidiary.” Sadler said that the first talk of an Ingersoll-Rand division came about two years ago. Involved in the discussion then were the Crescent Land and Timber Company (from whom the land was purchased) and the Mooresville Chamber of Commerce. Mooresville later contacted Davidson College and town authorities and Piedmont Bank officials. Sadler did not know when the first public announcement was made, saying that the town was never in a position to say anything concrete until the corporation gave permission for the operation. The Gazette states that its first article appeared in December 1974. At that time, the exact location of the plant was noted, but very little other information was available.

Commissioner of Davidson H. Buckling Naramore said that the Davidson Board of Commissioners met December 17, 1974, for the sole purpose of discussing water and sewage services to Ingersoll-Rand. Subsequent action on the subject took place at meetings on June 16 and October 20, 1975. But according to the article in the December 2, 1975 issue of The Gazette, “we heard nothing more about the plant until two weeks ago, when we met with the project manager and were informed that a lunch was planned for December 2 to formally announce the company’s location here.”

Sewage Service
The plant is to be located in Iredell County, but Davidson is supplying water and sewage services. According to Sadler, the town will supply them with a sewage system to the extent of their purchase of water services. Davidson’s own facilities should not be strained. North Carolina’s Department of Natural and Economic Resources has, after examination, given approval to a maximum input by Ingersoll-Rand into Davidson’s sewer system of 14,000 gallons per day. This arrangement will exist over a five-year period. By then, the North Mecklenburg Waste Management system should be in place.Water Treatment Plant should be in operation; under Area 201 Plan, it will treat all waste in North Mecklenburg County. Naramore said that the town agreed to extend the water and sewage lines a short distance to the town limits. The cost thereof will be offset by the imposition of a minimum monthly water charge to Ingersoll-Rand and a billing schedule set at double rates charged to citizens of Davidson.

Why is Davidson offering these services to a plant located in Iredell County? The Iredell County line and Davidson City limits form a common line. According to Mayor Sadler, there is nothing between Davidson and Lake Norman but those 118 acres. Under existing laws, one cannot annex undeveloped property into municipal limits except at the express request of property owners. Ingersoll-Rand has declined such a request, preferring to first establish themselves financially. But according to Sadler, the corporation is well aware that once it has developed to the extent of 60 percent of its capacity, Davidson can annex and—if approved by referendum—will.

Naramore stated that the proposed location next to Davidson was announced after negotiations with Credit Land and Timber Company had been concluded and that the Davidson Town Board took no part in the proceedings. "Any implied connection between this event and the sale of the town’s electric system to Duke Power has no basis in fact," said Sadler. "There was nothing unusual about the Piedmont Bank’s knowledge and 'wooing' of Ingersoll-Rand. A bank courts people with interest—especially those who propose to spend ten million dollars."

Marine World
Three years ago a tourist attraction on Lake Norman was proposed. This proposal for a Marine World was defeated by many of the same arguments used against the coming of Ingersoll-Rand. Sadler, however, said the Lake Norman plant is decidedly different. Marine World had an expected intermittent basis of 10 to 12 thousand people a day. The Ingersoll-Rand plant will start off with 100 people and plans to eventually employ 750. In contrast to the tourists of Marine World, these people are coming to stay and will arrive piecemeal. Davidson would have been asked to serve the people of Marine World 365 days a year. But in Sadler’s opinion, Ingersoll-Rand will "bring rather than take."

"By establishing permanent homes, they will become a part of the Davidson community. And the ten million dollars that Ingersoll-Rand proposes to invest will broaden the tax base and lead to reduced state tax rates. The difference in traffic caused by Marine World and by Ingersoll-Rand are incomparable."

Water storage
The water situation three years ago was not good. Since then Davidson has elevated storage by 5000 gallons. The largest problem, however, was the waste supply. Davidson has a fixed population of about 3200. With Marine World one was talking about 12,000 extra people on a daily basis—particularly in the summer when water usage is considered to be at its highest. According to Sadler, it was a physical impossibility. Also, the North Mecklenburg 201 Plant was only a concept then.

It would seem that nearly all debate on Ingersoll-Rand centers on what will be the good for the town of Davidson. During the afternoon luncheon announcing the corporation’s arrival, Sadler called the event "the greatest day in the town’s history." It is unusual that a town with no particular industry should attract two giant corporations, and he eagerly "welcomed the area’s newest corporate member, Duke Power Company, and its newest corporate neighbor, Ingersoll-Rand." Others, like Otey, are not so happy.

Shop "Gifts for all ages and all occasions"
HOURS: 10 AM-5:30 PM DAILY
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503