LEE CAROL BREWSTER, Marcee Morris, and Jay Silver are unopposed for the YM/YWCA positions of Treasurer, Secretary, and President, respectively.

the davidsonian
December 10, 1976

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Jay Silver, Marcee Morris, and Lee Carol Brewster, candidates for YM/YWCA President, Secretary, and Treasurer, respectively, see the Y as a “channel,” a “structure through which ideas can be put into action.”

Speaking for the three candidates, Jay Silver, a junior, cited community housing, alcoholism, and world hunger as the Y's focal issues. “We want to make the students more aware of the sub-standard housing that exists in the town,” said Silver. “For example, many students don’t know that there are elderly living without hot water.”

To help deal with the problem of alcoholism, Silver wants to “open up communication between students and the community.” Work with the symposium on world hunger will continue, also.

In terms of the Y’s structural organization, Silver feels that “all necessary coordination can be done directly with the heads of the individual programs,” of which the STEP Tutoring Program and the Thursday lunches are the two largest. “The Y is a structure, a means through which students can find their interests,” said Silver. “We want to make Davidson that much more a socially-oriented place.”

Silver and his running mates hope to make the Y “a process of generating ideas” which will in turn lend the program a thematic direction.

Seven anticipate media positions

By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

Four teams of prospective co-editors and three individuals are vying for top staff positions with Quips and Cranks, the Miscellany, WDAV, and the Wildcat Handbook.

In the most widely contested of these races, Juniors Mary Gilliam and Julie Chrisco face Freshmen Mary Ellen Sawada and Nancy Catron, and Sophomores Eddie Pollock and Brad Christie in their goal of co-editing the Wildcat Handbook.

Having been at Davidson College longer than any other handbook candidates, Gilliam and Chrisco see their primary qualification as having watched student reaction to the past three handbooks. They now feel that they know what kind of handbook will please freshmen. They were both editors of their high school newspapers and sports editors of their high school yearbooks. If elected, Gilliam and Chrisco plan to make the handbook more thorough and detailed, and to deliver it to all Davidson students, not just the freshmen. They believe that basketball and football schedules should be included, that restaurants should be listed by price and quality, and that an honest picture of Patterson Court should be presented.

GILLIAM & CHRISCO

Sawada and Catron think that, being freshmen themselves, they are better able to see exactly what the freshmen need and want in a handbook. “Even a year from now our attitudes will have changed about what we think we would like in a handbook,” said Sawada. Although they believe that they are underdogs, they do not see their admitted inexperience with the inner workings of the college as a limiting factor because “the resource people are already here.” Both Sawada and Catron have written for their high school and hometown newspapers. Sawada compiled her high school handbook. They believe that freshmen are frustrated with the present handbook form, and they see a need to “personalize it.” As an example, they note that no addresses of restaurants and churches were given in this year’s handbook. They hope to add a section on student-faculty relations, an explanation of add-drop procedures, the words to the alma mater, and all athletic schedules.and photographs of student leaders.

SAWADA

Pollock and Christie said that their major qualification for the handbook office is the varied leadership experiences that they had in high school. Pollock served as editor of both his school newspaper and alumni-parent newsletter. Christie was student body president and a reader for his high school literary magazine. They believe that the Wildcat Handbook has stagnated in the past few years, so they plan format changes designed to make the publication more readable and interesting. They are not quite sure, at present, exactly what specific changes they will make. They believe that all college catalogues, including Davidson’s, are full of propaganda and necessarily so. But they think that by the time a freshman matriculates he deserves a more realistic view of the college and will design the handbook to accomplish this.

WDAV

Sophomore Sid Barrett is running against Junior Greg Eason in the campaign for WDAV station manager. Barrett has been a working musician for about five years, both composing and performing rock and jazz. During the summer vacation and holiday breaks, he plays with professional musicians in Atlanta. He has worked as a recording engineer at WDAV for a little over a year. Barrett sees the major role WDAV has to play is in offering a program of what he calls alternative music, that is, music which is unprofitable for commercial stations to play. He also hopes to broadcast new albums soon after their release, and older and more familiar music that he thinks students will enjoy hearing. Barrett stresses the need for student input. He plans to regularly survey students to find out what they would like to hear and also he wants WDAV to act as a better forum for student opinion.

Eason has acted as a disc jockey for WDAV ever since the first term of his freshman year. He has been co-music director since the beginning of last year. He has put in an average of 20 hours a week in this position.

EASON

Eason stressed that “what you know about music doesn’t necessarily make you a good station manager, the important thing is how you deal with people and how you are able to find other people who know about music to work for the station.” If elected, he hopes to achieve a greater level of cooperation among all students working for WDAV. He will attempt to make the station independent of college control, both in terms of funding and programming. Eason also will emphasize alternative music in station programming, which he says is already common WDAV practice and has been so for over a year. He will try to broadcast Davidson basketball games and plans to play jazz earlier in the evenings, so that when the students return from the library between 10 and 12 pm they will be able to listen to rock.

BARRETT

Sophomore Ted Eastwick and Junior Gil Cuthbertson are unopposed in their bid for the editorship of Quips and Cranks. Eastwick was editor of his high school annual and was faculty and administration editor for the Davidson annual while he was a freshman. He is presently serving as special events editor. Cuthbertson was both business and faculty editor for his high school annual and has worked with Quips and Cranks.

EASTWICK

They plan to eliminate what they see as a discontinuity in the style of past yearbooks so as to make Quips and Cranks “an aesthetic unit.” They also plan to be highly organized “so that we won’t run into any snags when submitting the book to the publishers.”

[see BARNES, page 10]