‘Davidson Precinct — HOPEFUL ARTHUR GOODMAN won in Davidson but lost in the overall race to Jim Martin. Vol. LXVI, No. EIGHT

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Despite the revisions implemented in the course registration procedure in the fall of 1974, students still encounter difficulties in obtaining their desired courses due to conflicting departmental time blocks. The present system of course selection, conceived and implemented by H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid, was formulated “in response to an expression of need on the part either of the student or of the faculty,” according to Richard Burts, Registrar. This Lock-White procedure represents an attempt to give freshman students an equal opportunity at course selection.

Under previous systems, all registration was conducted in the Chambers Banquet Hall. Every department was represented in the Hall, each at a separate desk. Students selected and ranked their six course preferences, and course admission was based on seniority—with the seniors being permitted to sign up for their full course load first. It was only after the three upper classes had registered for their full course load that freshmen were allowed to select their schedule from the remaining courses. “This really took away (a course) from freshmen that a freshman may have been truly interested in,” said Burts.

In 1972, random numbers were assigned for the first time. Adding to the effectiveness of the already computerized process, the random numbers assign every senior, junior, sophomore, and freshman a first course, based on the student’s preference, and only then does it assign a second and finally a third course, in the same fashion. “I anticipate no changes in this (procedure) at all,” commented Burts. “I think it’s very satisfactory. It’s not a schedule, as in the past, but three schedules with built-in alternatives.” Burts further feels that this procedure’s effectiveness increases each year “as people become stabilized in it.”

While the Lock-White procedure has greatly reduced the emphasis on and importance of seniority, scheduling difficulties still arise in the area of conflicting course times. Before the beginning of a term, each department chairman must fill in a blank from the Registrar’s office delineating what courses will be offered and at what time each course will meet. A cover note is distributed with the blank requesting department chairmen to distribute their courses over the entire class day. Despite the note, the 9 am and 11 am hours are most frequently chosen by the departmental heads. Burts sees the time conflict situation as “a real problem.” “Most teachers and most students want to teach and take classes in the morning. Furthermore, there is a reluctance on the part of the college to have the 10 am hour used as a general class hour,” according to Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28038.

Registration problems stand despite procedural changes

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Voters in Davidson’s Precinct One turned out in unprecedented numbers Tuesday and cast generally liberal ballots in national and local races. Carter took the precinct with 585 votes over Ford’s 341, and Democrat Arthur Goodman had 469 as opposed to 427 for Martin, who won the Ninth District Congressional seat. According to county registrar Mrs. James Alexander, Sr., approximately 73 percent of the precinct’s voters visited the polls. “The number of voters — 1013 — was the largest yet in the eight years I’ve been here,” she said.

According to the Democratic poll-watcher, even though registered Democrats have a 2-1 edge in numbers, most Democrats split their tickets in order to vote for Martin. One of Martin’s poll-watchers said, regarding her candidate, “There is great pride that one of ours has made it.” On the whole, Davidson townspeople were reluctantHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to reveal their voting preferences to The D: “One lady, when queried about her choices, said, ‘I’d better not say—I’m a minister’s wife.’” Another townsperson commented, “I voted for about as many Republicans as Democrats.” Davidson students, staff, and faculty were more articulate, however, and were generally ambivalent. Said one professor, “I voted against Martin rather than for Goodman by voting Democratic.” A staff member reflected this viewpoint in saying, “I didn’t vote for the Congressman because I was not sure that either candidate was that qualified.” Another professor revealed that he voted for Goodman because he “wasn’t that pleased with the way Martin has grown in office; he’s shown far too much receptivity to special interest groups.”

Concerning the Presidential race, the above-quoted staff member said, “I think looking at what Carter did in Georgia, he’s best for management. His intentions are in the right area.” One professor said that “I’m almost more comfortable telling you why I’m not voting for Ford than why I am voting for Carter. Mostly socio-economic problems are involved in my decision.” A student, who agreed with President Ford’s domestic policies, summed up what seemed to be a popular opinion when he said that “Ford is the lesser of two evils.”

---

seeks to stimulate Student-faculty interaction

By JIM ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

A group of students and faculty members has recently been considering ways in which interaction between the student body and the faculty might be improved. This group, headed by Roger Brown, was originally the idea of SGA President Bo Baskin, but now shys away from any connection with the student government. “We’re attempting to avoid any sort of political affiliation,” said Brown. “There are already plenty of organizations on campus that have the potential to attempt to improve student-faculty relations and we don’t want to create any more. Instead, we want to make those interested in increased interaction aware of the opportunities that do exist currently and develop additional opportunities.”

In order to prevent bureaucratic cluttering, the group will probably disband soon and continue to work as individuals. Group member Nancy Catron commented, “We want to motivate others to initiate contacts with members of the faculty based on common interests. Our function is not to actually do the matching up, but to encourage those who are interested to do so.”

Brown feels that most professors desire increased contact with students but are restricted by time limitations and a feeling that what time is available for students should be devoted to class members. He stated, “The impression I get from the faculty members in the group is that they enjoy the contact they do have with students and appreciate it.”

---

If you need further assistance or more specific details, feel free to ask!