the davidsonian _ December 3, 1976

By ANDREW LAMAS
Staff Writer

The following items are all eminently worth student consideration and support. They are presently in this form so that football players, members of Phi Delta Theta, and all other species of nonintelligent beings on the Davidson campus may read and understand them.

First, swine flu shots. No, this is not a Communist plot. There is no concrete information which leads us to the conclusion that the swine flu vaccine will react with fluoride in the water supply and cause a slow and painful death. We realize that the John Birch Society has been warning us for years about the dangers of "creeping Communism," but they warned us about the dangers of integration, also. Since there has been no epidemic of rabies following the admittance of blacks to Davidson, we can conclude that the John Birchers are probably wrong about this one, too.

Second, the SGA. Everyone needs to support them. It’s true that they can’t even run an election, that nobody on campus even cares who is in the Senate, and that their rank in the power structure of Davidson is only one notch above Bo Brickels’, but they do try hard. Bo Baskin is a nice guy, and it’s easy enough to ignore that Pepsodent-white smile when you know it is an uncontrollable nervous reaction to a sexual inadequacy he feels. Just humor him, and he won’t bother you long.

Third, the KA’s. Some of them are really decent fellows. Sure, they are all bigots, and they get their kicks screaming racial slurs at blacks on opposing basketball teams, but deep in their hearts they mean well. One of them was even heard saying the other day, "Run for office... Run for glory!!!"

Everybody should run for office. The office of Union Board President is uncontested. It sure should be contested. SGA President requires a special person. There should be lots of folks running for these offices. Students deprive themselves of a great experience when they do not run. Also, it seems that the offices would be better filled by persons who have won contested elections. Democracy in action should be observed. To get the best people, democracy must be observed.

Patriotic Graphics by Larry, Moe & Curly........ at RomGalilea
Cecil B. DeMille
Clark Kent
Tank McNamara & Gil Thorpe
Hunter S. Thompson
EditorBusiness Managers: Pace Ec, Encarees
Photography Editor: Icaceitaea Ie
Production Manager: RAPA
Editorial Page Editor: Rey We
News Editor: Newel Ganas Mee
Sports Editors: Ny Ects Eae
Features Editor: Enc
Circulation Manager: Ee Ane
Advertising Manager: 

Contributors: Alfred E. Newman, Jack Doff, Ben Dover, Hugh Suct, Chuck Colson, Haldemanerlichmanmitchelldean’n-liddy, Maxine Polly, The Green Hornet & Cato, Alley Oop, Karl Marx, Bozo, Ziggy Stardust and the Spiders from Mars, Jerry Garcia & Charlie’s Angels, Pat M. Baskin, and Jerry Mathers as the Beaver.

Published when we damn well please by the solipsistic, self-appointed few of Davidson College. No postage paid, ever. Blow all correspondence out your shorts. Yearly subscription rate: $27 million.

“There’s nothing wrong with blacks.” Of course, he followed it up with, “Everybody ought to own one or two.” If you just leave them alone, they’ll continue on with their merry task of trying to catch up to the SAE’s.

Fourth, Will Terry. Everybody knows he’s bald, getting fat, and uses students to tend bar at his parties under the threat of “You’ll never be a hall counselor if you don’t,” but basically he’s a good guy. It’s not his fault that he’s Sam Spencer’s lackey. So, support all of these causes and everything will be fine. Just console yourself with Alexander Pope’s philosophy that “there must be some temporary evil in the world to make the good look better.”

Letters to the Editor

Bobbitt bops commies

To the Editor:
I would just like to say a few things about the recent controversy in your newspaper involving your editor and that religion professor. It seems like nobody has decided nothing despite the fact that there were two long articles written recently.

First, McKelway is probably a Communist, pinko fag. Anybody that puts more faith in the power of religion than the power of a working man’s shotgun has got to be a Communist. And if he wants to find out who really has more power, then wait until the Commies invade us. While he’s down on his knees prayin’, I’ll be killin’ me some Gooks.

Second, Mr. Martin has done a lot of good things since he got elected. He voted to increase the defense budget so that we’ll always have more planes, bombs, and missiles than the Communists. He wants to decrease welfare payments so that all those folks driving welfare Cadillacs will have to get out and get a job instead of living off us hard-working folks.

Third, Davidson is getting too liberal anyway. I hear that they let girls in the boys’ dormitories anytime, day or night. And one of those fraternities is always wearing fancy clothes and having beer-drinking parties. I sure hope everything gets straightened out soon.

Jesse Roy Bobbitt ’35
Lizard Lick, N.C.

Martin and McKelway exchange compliments

Dear Editor:
Know how many Davidson professors it takes to make popcorn? 26. One to hold the pan and 25 to shake the stove.

Jim Martin
Congressman (still, nyahhh!)

Dear Editor:
Know how many Jim Martins it takes to vote “No”? 51. One to hold the pen and 50 to move the paper.

Alexander McKelway
Professor of Religion