March 19, 1976

the davidsonian

“ALL WAS QUIET in Mudville...”

-Pete Goodman

Ed Willingham waits his turn at the plate with bat-girl Hunter Boyd.

Wildcat basemen drop eight

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

“There is not much to say when you are 1-8,” commented Coach Palmer Muench about the doubleheader losses to Marietta College and Slippery Rock State this past weekend.

Later, Coach Muench went on to account for the team’s record as basically a failure to coordinate hitting and pitching. One day the pitching will be strong and the hitting weak, and the next day it will be the exact opposite.

In the first game of a doubleheader against Marietta College, a team that was second in NCAA Division II playoffs last year, it appeared that in the early innings the pitching and hitting were well-coordinated.

Starting Pitcher Tim Barr held Marietta to one run in three innings, and his teammates staked him to a 5-1 lead, as a result of scoring four runs in the second inning.

In the fourth inning the roof caved in on Barr, as he allowed a grand slam in an inning in which six Marietta runners crossed the plate. Marietta went on to win the game 9-5.

Disaster struck early in the second game as Davidson’s pitching ace Joel Tew was roughed up for four runs in the first inning. Davidson’s hitters could only produce one run in seven innings and Marietta won the game 6-1.

The Cats took the field under cold and soggy conditions on Monday, and for the first time this season “they gave away the games,” according to Muench. Sloppy fielding nullified strong pitching performances by Mike Hall and Alan Alig, and cost the Cats two games against Slippery Rock College.

Mike Hall, who owns the credit for Davidson’s only win this season, a twelve-inning 4-3 victory over Pfeiffer, pitched well in the first game against Slippery Rock.

After five innings the score was deadlocked at two runs apiece, but two errors by Davidson fielders in the sixth inning opened the gates and allowed three runs to score, and gave S. R. a 5-2 victory.

The second game Monday saw the emergence of another starting pitcher for the Cats. Alan Alig, who had been used as a relief pitcher prior to Monday, started and pitched almost the entire game.

“Alig only lacked the confidence to be a solid pitcher,” said Muench, and on Monday “Quasor” surely received a strong boost of confidence. For the first six innings Alig gave up only two hits and no runs, but unfortunately the Wildcats could only manage one hit and no runs.

In the seventh inning an error and a wild pitch got Alig into a jam from which he couldn’t extricate himself and Slippery Rock scored three runs to win by the score 3-0.

Besides the strong pitching performances of Alig and Hall, Muench has been delighted with the consistent play of second baseman Rick Blinkhorn, who leads the team in hitting with a .429 average.

The Cats haven't played a weak team yet, according to Muench, and the schedule doesn’t get any easier.

It could be a long season if the pitching of Joel Tew and Tim Barr, and the hitting of the entire team doesn’t come around. Coach Muench feels that they will, and the Wildcats will post some more wins.

Sailors place second in opening race

By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson sailing team opened its spring season by placing second behind Old Dominion University in the 15th Annual Webb Regatta hosted by ODU in Norfolk, Va., Saturday.

The team sailed against Duke, N. C. State, ODU and U. Va. Christopher Newport College began the regatta but dropped out after the second race because they failed to finish either race, according to B-team crew, Stuart Campbell.

Davidson’s A-team, Dave Francis and Laurie Bingaman, received the first place trophy in their division. Francis and Bingaman placed first in their first race, and second in the next two races.

Chuck Barrineau and Campbell placed third behind U. Va. and ODU in the B-team races. The team capsized in their first race, came in first in the second race and finished their last three races fourth.

The wind on the course was brisk and fluky, according to Campbell, causing seven boats to capsize during the regatta. “In these races the important factor was survival,” he said.

SAILORS HIKE OUT against a wind while preparing for Saturday’s regatta. -Pete Goodman

The first race was held on the Chesapeake Bay, but the rest were moved inland to a small river because the tide went out.

“The course was so shallow there we couldn’t sail with the board down,” said Campbell. “I think they tried to schedule the regatta when the tides were high, but SAISA (Southern Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association) changed the dates.”

The regatta used ODU’s boats, thirteen-year-old Penguins. Unlike the Jets, the boats Davidson uses, these boats have only one sail.

“It’s like sailing bathtubs,” said Campbell. “They tended to dive under the waves like real penguins. The only difference was that the boats went down to stay down.”

“But it wasn’t a bad regatta, because you can’t really blame a team for its boats,” he concluded.

The U.S. Navy Officer Procurement Team will be on Campus March 22-24, 1976 in the Student Union. Naval Officers will be on hand to talk to interested persons concerning Officer Positions in Nuclear Power, Aviation, Supply Corps (business management), Line, Nuclear Power Instructor and several Scholarship programs. Drop by and see if the “New Navy” is for you.

LT John GORDON
P.O. Box 18568
Raleigh, N.C. 27607
(919) 872-2547