November 5, 1976

Wildcat Club

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Davidson College actively seeks private donations to maintain the high standards of its programs. One of the programs which depends
heavily on private donations is the intercollegiate athletic program.

An enormous amount of money is needed to run the athletic department, and the College cannot foot the bill alone.

After graduation, every alumnus will be asked to share in the cost of running the athletic program. The Wildcat Club
is the organization which will solicit these donations.

Before donating, everyone should know where and how their money will be spent.

A popular misconception of the Wildcat Club is that it exists solely to support the football team.

On the contrary, the purpose of the Wildcat Club as laid down in 1973 by a trustee’s decision is “to
supplement the functioning of the entire intercollegiate athletic program.”

This was the original purpose when the club was founded in 1950. It began as a loosely organized athletic booster
club. Volunteers ran the club, and there were no membership fees.

In 1966 the club began to take on a more structural form. Dues were charged and the membership began to
rise. Nevertheless, the emphasis was still on supporting all the sports.

The nature of the Wildcat Club changed in 1970. A professional executive director was hired to direct the raising of
money, in order to provide football scholarships.

This was a result of trustees’ decision that the football program could remain at its competitive level (1969 Southern Conference
Champions), but the “primary responsibility for funding the program must come from alumni and friends.”

Thus, from 1970-72 football was the club's main concern.

The current executive director, Mr. Sandy Carnegie, came to Davidson in February, 1972. At that time he felt it was
apparent that the Wildcat Club needed to get back to its original purpose, which was to help all the sports.

He devised a plan with Dave Fagg, who was then head football coach, whereby some of the scholarship funds would
be channeled into the other sports.

This move preceded the trustees’ mandatory decision to fund all sports by several months.

Today the Wildcat Club has over 1,700 members, and that number is growing rapidly. Carnegie feels that the money raised
by these members should be used to support all the sports.

However, he strongly feels that a good football program and a top-20 basketball program will be important to the growth
of the other sports.

If successful, these programs will bring in the money needed to upgrade the quality of all the teams. Carnegie also
added that “We only raise the money, the athletic director and coaches decide how to spend it.”

Some of the more visible expenditures made possible by the Wildcat Club have been the new all-weather track, the new
tartan surface basketball court, the purchase of new weights, and the purchase of several vans, which are used to transport
the teams to away events.

The club also works in less publicized ways.

Two years ago it helped fund the soccer team’s trip to England. Last year it provided financial aid to a
foreign tennis player and a soccer player.

This aid was provided on a need basis, just as the football aid is provided. (Basketball scholarships came out of
college funds). This fall the contract to televise ten basketball games was negotiated with the help of the club.

The Wildcat Club is working in a variety of ways to promote athletics at Davidson. Perhaps the football team and
basketball team do get a larger share of the funds, but that is not the Wildcat Club’s decision.

They don’t set the athletic policies, they just raise the money needed to support them.
