the davidsonian

February 13, 1976

THIS SCULPTURE in wood is one of the works by Mr. and Mrs. Edwin Shewmake of Winston-Salem on display in
the Union lobby.

-Leon Venable

Yes, fellow students, there is life outside the Davidson campus; in fact, there are even other students engaging in wholesome
collegiate fun and games.

For any students with cars, take heed: be sure either to park your car legally, or at least pay your
fines before they gather too many cobwebs, because an employee of the University of California student radio station was arrested
recently while doing a live talk show; the campus police came right into the studio and hauled him away from
the microphone, with a warrant for outstanding parking tickets.

Each fall on a day picked at random for its beautiful weather, students at Wabash College in Crawford, Indiana, receive
an all-campus holiday. At 7:00 am the president climbs to the top of the campus bell tower and declares the
holiday, because, he believes, that “A holiday on one of the most beautiful days in the fall was as good
for the soul as work in the classroom and library are good for the mind—and, as a college, we are
concerned with both mind and souls.” Personally, I think we should get a holiday if we ever have a week
with no rain, or maybe we can arrange for all the bulbs in the library to burn out simultaneously.

According to G. Paul York, there are $33,500,000 worth of unclaimed scholarships in America, and for $13.95, he’ll tell you
what they are. No one really knows much about the well-informed Mr. York (we presume he has no college debts
himself), and the Main State Consumer Council with its usual reticence volunteers, “He appears to be honest, but he hasn’t
been around long enough to have any complaints.” No doubt the list would not be as helpful as one would
think—probably all of the scholarships are for midgets with combined board scores of 1600 who were born in Kansas during
a dust bowl, with Bulgarian parents and who can name each of Toulouse-Lautrec’s works by memory, and admire John Birch.
So it’s probably no use unless you are a midget, with board scores of 1600, born in Kansas during a
dust bowl, with Bulgarian parents, and can name each of Toulouse-Lautrec’s works by memory, and admire John Birch.

Underdog wins burger competition

By DAVE KELLER and ROGER BROWN

Double Burger, Cheese Burger, Chili Burger, Olive Burger, Rutabaga Burger, even Warren Burger, are variations of America’s most elegant and
popular contribution to international cuisine, the Hamburger.

None contain ham, few contain beef, but rather peanut flakes or ground gristle. But for all their shortcomings, they still
represent a vital component of the American Dream.

Hamburger making is an art of infinite variation. To determine the state of the art in our vicinity, we, two
relentless reporters, struck out for the area’s most well-known hamburger establishments, those being the Union Snack Bar, the Bantam Chef,
and the Tastee-Freeze. Our goal was to determine the relative quality of each top-of-the-line hamburger so as to provide you,
the consumer, with a means of comparison.

The hamburger has several qualities which lend themselves to objective measurement; among them are ingredients, patty size, patty weight, total
weight, and price. Some qualities of a hamburger, though, elude objective measurement, so rather than risk ambiguity through the use
of equivocal adjectives, we have chosen to relate these intangible qualities through the use of the “Pascal’s Palate Response” scale,
which ranges from one to ten.

Ron Scott’s own Wildcat Special was the subject of our first battery of tests. This sandwich contains lettuce, tomato, onion,
pickle, special sauce, cheese, and two meat patties, each patty having a diameter of 3½ inches and a weight of
2 oz.; total weight was 8 oz. Ratings for the Special were 5’s from both reporters, and the price of
the burger is 85 cents.

An anonymous ARA-Slater employee said of the Special, “The meat changes from week to week, depending on what kind of
deal Ron (Scott) can get from his supplier.”

The next burger to come under our scrutiny was Bantam Chef’s Super Bantam with cheese. The Bantam was the heftiest
of the three subjects, weighing in at a whopping eleven ounces. Its single meat patty, “guaranteed” 100 percent beef, was
five inches in diameter and three ounces in weight. Other ingredients were mayonnaise, ketchup, mustard, lettuce, tomato, onion, plus optional
chili and cole slaw, both of which added greatly to the weight and the flavor of the burger. The Bantam
received two 7.5’s on the PPR scale, and its price was 85 cents.

The Bantam Chef has received a bad reputation over the years, perhaps not without justification. Now, however, the folks at
the Chef are aiming to get some business, and better food, weekly specials, and a good-looking waitress are obvious improvements.

Our final subject was Tastee-Freeze’s Big Tee, whose two meat patties, 3½ inches in diameter and 1½ ounces each, are
combined with lettuce, cheese, pickles, and special sauce on a Big Mac-type double bun. Total weight of the burger was
5⅜ ounces, and price was 90 cents. The Big Tee received a 5 and a 6 on our scale.

Our study was a bit surprising; the underdog (underburger?) came out on top. The Super Bantam is a tasty treat.
Of course, the other burgers were good but none combined weight, condiments, and taste like the Super Bantam with cheese.

So if you’re in a pickle, take our advice: choose your burger from the above options and hustle your buns
down to your favorite seedy joint. Who says? Sesame!!

Happy Valentine’s Day from—

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
