October 29, 1976

DAVIDSON’S FOOTBALL team shows its style during games earlier this season before taking their first victory last Saturday over Hampden-Sydney.

Cats sneak past Hampden-Sydney

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s unusually potent offense clawed back from an early 14-point deficit last Saturday against Hampden-Sydney, to claim their first victory
of the season, 20-14.

Page Walley led the Wildcat comeback with three touchdown plunges from one yard out. Walley finished the day with a
total of 115 yards in 26 carries as he had the best game for a Wildcat runner this year.

Late in the second quarter, the Wildcats found themselves in an all too familiar position as they trailed by two
touchdowns. But a double reverse pitch back to quarterback Bob McCarthy caught the Tigers off balance and moved the ball
to the Hampden-Sydney six-yard line with less than a minute in the half.

The next three plays netted five yards for the Cats and on a crucial fourth down play Davidson scored with
14 seconds left in the half. Coach Ed Farrell credited determination for the crucial first-half touchdown.

“We did something that I haven’t seen around here in three years. We blew two sure passes for touchdowns and
then came to a crucial fourth down situation.

“In the past, I think we would have thrown up the surrender flag mentally but this time the guys refused
to give in to adversity. The offensive line really blew out of there on fourth down and Page was able
to get the touchdown.”

In the second half, Davidson’s defense took over and shut off the Tiger’s offense completely. The Wildcat offense was able
to capitalize on the resulting good field position and score the necessary points.

“Our defense is more experienced this year and our offense is not turning the ball over as they had in
the past. As a result, our team doesn’t have to play consistently good defense in our own territory,” Farrell explained.

Farrell cited the Madison contest as giving confidence to his revitalized offense. Davidson’s offense exploded for 346 yards total offense
with 276 of those yards coming on the ground.

“We got some confidence from that game when we scored two touchdowns, when we had to, against a very tough
defensive team,” said Farrell.

Although pleased with his offense’s improvement, Farrell feels that the Wildcats still need greater consistency in the absence of a
quick scoring punch.

“We don’t have a long ball threat in the form of a breakaway runner and we don’t have receivers with
blazing speed. Since we don’t score with big plays we need a consistent offense that can grind out yardage and
we were able to do that against Hampden-Sydney.”

Davidson’s first victory should provide extra confidence for the Wildcats when they play Guilford this Saturday. It was only Coach
Farrell’s fourth win as Davidson coach but it was his most pleasing.

“It is the only good victory we’ve had at Davidson in my three years here. We finally beat a good
team—one that was ranked ninth in the nation in Division III.”

RECRUITMENT ANNOUNCEMENT

Duke University Law School

Professor Pamela G. Luther will be on campus Friday, November 5, 1976, from 9 am until 4 pm to interview
prospective students for the Duke University Law School. Interested students should contact Ms. Suzie Summers in the Office for Experimental
Studies and Life/Work Planning.

ONE GOOD REASONS to get your MBA at SMU:

1. one year program.
2. one-of-a-kind, action-based curriculum.
3. one school, two degrees—JD/MBA and MBA/MFA joint degree programs.
4. first-class location: Dallas, Texas.
5. first international dual degree program—with American Graduate School of International Management.

Interested? See the SMU representative.

Monday, November 8, 1976
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY

HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL
MBA PROGRAM

William D. Shea, Assistant Director of Admissions at Harvard University’s Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus

Tuesday, November 2, 1976
to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program.
Contact the Office for Experimental Programs & Placement for more details and to sign up for an information session.

Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex,
creed or national origin.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE FOOD SERVICE SPECIAL

Mexican Night!

Welcome to Pedro’s South of the Border!

It Will be a Dining Experience You Will Never Forget!

Richards and Bailey Houses
Wednesday, Nov. 3
If You Are Not A Meal Card Holder Please Make Advanced Reservations By Nov. 2 By Calling 892-4781 or Ext.
348.
