April 23, 1976 The Davidsonian

Coach Upholds Sports, Academics

Dave Pritchett is a man on the move, and hopefully, this means the Davidson Basketball Program is on the move
toward its goal of national prominence. In the three weeks he has been the new Davidson coach, Pritchett has been
a hard man to find because he has spent very little time at Davidson. He has been constantly moving from
place to place, doing what he is best known for—recruiting.

The energetic Pritchett paused briefly to talk about the future and aims of the basketball program several nights ago. His
outlook on the Davidson program reveals his confidence and optimism. Pritchett was an assistant coach under former Davidson head coach
Lefty Driesell at the University of Maryland for three years prior to accepting his new position at Davidson. He was
drawn to Davidson because of its academic stature and the challenge of rebuilding what was once a nationally prominent basketball
program. Another factor that influenced his decision was that he feels “Davidson will be a great place to raise three
sons.”

Pritchett said, “If I did not think I could return Davidson to its national standing, I wouldn’t have come,” when
he first accepted the position of head coach. There is no doubt that the man is dedicated to rebuilding the
program, and he cites three reasons why he thinks Davidson has the potential of being a basketball powerhouse. “Davidson is
the finest academic school in the country that can offer full scholarships, fine facilities, and a proud tradition,” he said.
Through these assets, Pritchett hopes to draw top-quality players to Davidson.

Due to the large amount of time spent on recruiting, Pritchett has not had time to review Davidson's 1975-76 season.
However, he has viewed some game films and met with the players several times to form some preliminary opinions of
the present players and their abilities. Pritchett definitely feels that there was talent and a commitment to the program on
this past year’s team. But he does not plan to evaluate the players, especially the younger ones, on the past
season’s performances. Pritchett said, “I think it is foolish to have high expectations of freshmen. I don’t care how good
they are, they are still freshmen, and they lack experience.” To strengthen his point, he used the University of Maryland’s
starting center, freshman Larry Gibson, as an example: “Larry Gibson was one of the best high school centers I had
ever seen, but when he started playing in the ACC he was embarrassed.”

Pritchett hopes the players don’t get discouraged over the poor season, and he plans to start all over again with
them next fall. Davidson must attract top-quality players if it ever hopes to return to national prominence, so recruiting may
be the most crucial factor in determining the success of the program over the next few years. Coach Pritchett has
been labeled a “master recruiter” and his talents have been sorely tested over the past weeks. He has faced the
monumental task of starting recruiting late and working alone, yet he is not frightened by the recruiting situation. He said,
“With the proper organization and discipline, this year’s recruiting will be salvaged.” But he adds he is seeking blue-chip prospects,
and he does not...want to sign any players just to pacify the anxious people. Pritchett chose not to reveal any
specific details about who he was recruiting. He did say, however, that he was looking for "players to help the
inside game and rebounding, and for guards because you never should miss a season without recruiting guards." Mainly, he discussed
the recruiting situation he faces at Davidson in a general way. Pritchett confidently said, "Somewhere there are eight or ten
great students who are outstanding basketball players and all we have to do is find them and persuade them to
attend Davidson."

Pritchett has no intention of sacrificing "academic, ethical, or moral standards" in order to return Davidson to top rankings. He
strongly believes in academics and athletics, and does not appear to be bothered by the controversial high academic standards. Academics
do concern Pritchett, and he feels performance in the classroom and on the courts goes hand in hand. From his
experiences at Maryland he recalls "every good student has always been the best player; their off-court dedication is reflected in
their on-court dedication." He cites Lenny Elmore, Tom McMillen (Rhodes Scholar), and more recently John Lucas and Mo Howard as
examples of good students and players. Pritchett would prefer to have players who are good students, because he feels "the
better the student, the more effort, concentration and discipline will be shown on the court."

"If a player could not be accepted as a regular student, I would not want him on my basketball team,"
he said. "You don’t build a program with junior college players," said Pritchett. However, he did add if a qualified
junior college player was available, he would try to recruit him. Recruiting is the top priority. Comments by various professors
did not bother the new coach. He felt this kind of tension goes on at any academic school, and said,
"those things tend to get blown way out of proportion." He added that people don’t get carried away with this
basic tension between athletics and academics here at Davidson.

No timetable for the re-emergence of a national powerhouse is being set by Pritchett. He does not want any undue
pressure placed on his players. "I don’t want to come in here and be wild-eyed and say we are going
to win national championships and be in the top ten, but if I did not believe we would not eventually
end up there, I would not have come to Davidson." Pritchett said, "I am going to do everything I can
each day to move towards our goal, and all I ask is that my players, the faculty, students, community of
Davidson and the city of Charlotte be patient and solid with their support."

Pritchett has no regrets about leaving Maryland, and he certainly seems to be doing everything possible to ensure that no
one will regret the day he was hired as the new Davidson basketball coach.

POEMS WANTED

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS is compiling a book of poems. If you have written a poem and would
like our selection committee to consider it for publication, send your poem and a self-addressed stamped envelope to:

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS
614 - 1st Union Bldg.
Winston Salem, N.C. 27101

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR
THURS. 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00
25¢ DRAFT
