Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian  
March 26, 1976  

A Review  
By ANGELA BARNETT  
Staff Writer  

Winners of many internationally famous competitions, the Branko Krsmanovich Chorus will perform in Love Auditorium on Monday, March 29 at 8:15 p.m. One of Europe’s oldest choruses, they are a continuation of the renowned Obilich Choir, founded in 1884, in their homeland of Yugoslavia. Eighty singers between the ages of eighteen and thirty will sing conducted by Bogdan Babich. When not on tour, these singers are students in both graduate and undergraduate programs at Belgrade University.  

The Branko Krsmanovich Chorus offers a richly contrasting program. The first part of the concert will consist of classics such as “Exultate Deo” by Scarlatti, Tchaikovsky’s “Alleluia,” and “Ein Hennlein Weiss” by Scandelli. After the intermission, the chorus will appear in the costumes of the six republics of Yugoslavia: Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, and Montenegro.  

News Commentary  

Ancient music revived  
By ANNE FICKLEN  
Staff Writer  

Ars Antigua de Paris performed Friday night to a less-than-capacity audience in Love Auditorium, proving once more that culture can come to Davidson, but the Davidson student won't always come to culture. Ars Antigua de Paris plays only music written before the 1700s, and uses only the instruments of the period, many of which are the prototypes of modern-day orchestral instruments. One of the most unique of these was the krummhorn (German), a member of the wind family which sounds surprisingly like the modern kazoo. Another unusual instrument the group used was the tabor, a forerunner of the bass and timpani drums which was used for marching songs in the crusades. The many stringed instruments used were primarily plucked, being some of the first orchestral instruments (as they were supposed to mimic the human voice).  

The concert itself began slowly, and the audience seemed unprepared for the muted level of sound which the instruments produced. In fact, many students were seen leaving before the first break, although they did leave quietly. Greater audience rapport was achieved, however, when the musicians began to talk about their instruments and to explain the historical context of their songs. Joseph Sage, the group’s counter-tenor, was particularly witty, anticipating the question, “Are you a castrati?” by proclaiming, “I have a wife and children, and my children look like me.”  

Joseph Sage’s performance was definitely the most unusual aspect of the concert. His transition from falsetto (so called because the technique employs a man’s two false vocal cords) to his regular tenor voice was amazingly smooth. In fact, in his first song, Sage could have been mistaken for an instrument himself. Sage’s control over his vocal dynamics was superb—his pianissimos were barely audible and his fortes, though rare, were piercing. Sage’s constant awareness of each instrument’s unique qualities allowed him to achieve a constant balance, never overpowering or being overpowered.  

For those who did stay throughout the entire performance, the evening became spicier, especially when translations of Ars Antigua’s encores were provided.  

Wallace attempts gutsy comeback  
By ROBERT HUTCHINSON  
Staff Writer  

Probably the most controversial presidential candidate this year is George C. Wallace. You either love him or hate him—there’s no middle ground. So many stories circulate about him, it is hard to separate the fact from the legend. Doris Nunn, his Charlotte campaign manager, calls him the “most upright man in American politics today.” (I give her credit for making the pun unintentional.) She speaks of his standing on the steps of the University of Alabama to prevent two blacks from entering (back in ’63) as an action for state’s rights, not a personal bias against the prospective students. Recent interviews with the two tend to support this idea.  

The man is a legend in his own time, but he is also a candidate for the President of the United States. Is there something more than legend that has given him strong and respectable finishes in the Massachusetts, Florida, and North Carolina primaries?  

George Wallace was born August 25, 1919, at Clio, Alabama. As a farm boy, he learned early the lessons of hard work and economy by...doing manual chores to help his family financially. When he arrived on the University of Alabama campus in 1937, his total assets consisted of the suit he wore, a few dollars in his pocket, and some odds and ends in his cardboard suitcase. His father died that year, and he had to work himself through school with various odd jobs. Despite having to earn money to finance his education, he still had time to be captain of the Freshman Baseball team, Freshman Class President, and Captain of the Varsity Boxing team. (Makes you wish you were at Alabama with all that time, doesn’t it?)

After graduating in 1942, he volunteered for the U.S. Air Corps and served for three years with distinction. In 1947, at the age of 27, he was elected to the Alabama Legislature. In 1958, he ran in the Alabama gubernatorial primary and finished second in a crowded field of fourteen. Four years later, he was elected to the office by the largest vote ever given a gubernatorial candidate in the history of the state up until that time. He was re-elected in 1970 and 1974. In 1968, Wallace ran for President as a Third Party candidate, receiving an amazing and highly respectable ten million votes. He ran again in 1972 and was picking up momentum towards the Democratic nomination when he was gunned down at Laurel, Maryland. The 1976 campaign marks his third major drive for the Presidency, and, though few political speculators expect him to win the nomination, he is regarded as a potential spoiler for the convention’s frontrunners.

George Wallace’s campaign slogan is “Trust the People!” In explaining his motivation, he writes: “I run for President because I care about America. I love this land, our people, our traditions, our values. Like you, I am deeply concerned about the direction of our country. My only thought is to help bring about changes that will heal what is troubling America so we can move on to the great victories which freedom offers.” His style is gutsy, straightforward, and unapologetically pro-middle class. “I trust the people,” he says. “They are right more times than the politicians. We must remove the cloak of secrecy that shuts out the people.”

He takes a hard-line stand against the communists; no recognition of Castro’s Cuba, no foreign aid to Communist countries or those countries who aid Communists, superior offensive and defensive military capability to put America in a strong position to negotiate with her enemies. Wallace advocates a change in the tax structure to shift the burden to the ultra-rich. He wants a “reasonable welfare program and a curtailment of payments to able-bodied individuals which motivate them not to work.” He supports a constitutional amendment to protect the lives of unborn children and to nullify the Supreme Court decision on abortions. He opposes the Equal Rights Amendment on the grounds that it takes away many rights women now enjoy, but he wants full rights for every woman. The Governor is opposed to gun control laws because they “take guns away from the law-abiding citizens and the criminals will have them anyway.” He advocates a first-priority energy program to make the United States self-sufficient. Not surprisingly, he wants to see an end to forced busing and a return to the freedom of choice and the neighborhood school concepts.

Wallace’s campaign brochure characterizes him as “a man who speaks for rank and file citizens.” He’s a strong conservative with most of his support coming from labor and the rest of middle-class America. But the critics say his biggest drawback is that he is too far removed from mainstream American politics. George Wallace may or may not be the best choice for the next President of the United States. If he fails to receive the nomination this time, Mrs. Nunn tells me that 1976 will be his last try for the Presidency. Irregardless of the outcome in New York this summer, his gutsy and courageous comeback attempt for the 1976 Democratic nomination will remain an indelible monument to an indelible man—both in legend and reality.