7 davidsonian January 30, 1976

MERLE MILLER: “I had no intention of writing a book about Truman.” -Irv. Wilson

Bot es discusses security, sketches precinct controls

By PHILLIP DUNCAN
Assistant News Editor

The Davidson Police Department, which protects both the town and the College, has been reorganized. Precinct 1 (in town) and
Precinct 2 (on campus) are now independent and separate units. Jackie Hughes, promoted from Lieutenant to Captain, heads the campus
force. Captain Hughes said that the lack of coordination between the two precincts had been causing some confusion. “Sometimes I
would tell an officer to do something and Chief Mills (in town) would tell him to do something else,” Hughes
said. “I didn’t think the problem was all that bad, but the town commissioners decided that things would operate more
efficiently if we were independent.”

Evaluating the status of security at Davidson, Hughes said that “problems this year are less numerous than in the past.
I think that may be due to our ‘walking security’ around campus. We patrol the public buildings on foot and
cover Patterson Court, the college-owned housing on Main Street, the lake campus, and other outlying areas with the car.” Larcenies
are the

Author Miller lauds Truman, diagnoses current problems

By BRAD SWALWELL and LYMAN COLLINS
Senior and Assistant News Editors

Merle Miller, author of Plain Speaking: An Oral Biography of Harry S. Truman, spoke about Truman and the contemporary political
scheme when he visited Davidson Wednesday. Miller, who spent months in conversation with Truman at his home in Independence, Missouri,
before writing the biography, said he was surprised at the success of the book. “I thought the book would sell
the usual 20,000 copies. It was an accident because it came out at the same time Dick Nixon was sinking
and the book was about an apparently honest man,” said Miller. “I don’t think there is such a thing as
a truly honest man. Some are just more honest than others.”

Miller also said that he had not planned on writing the book until after his conversations with Truman. “I had
no intention of writing a book about Truman. I had had these conversations with Harry Truman, and I slung them
together in a phenomenally short time—four or five months,” he said.

Miller has been a part of Washington politics since Truman’s presidency and offered some comments on both Truman and contemporary
politics. “Harry Truman was a very simple man. I don’t know if he was really simple, but he made himself
appear simple. Independence, Missouri was sort of a macho town when Truman was born there.

“Why, we have lost what we had when Harry Truman was president. God knows what happened; it just seems to
have occurred.

“Part of it is that some fool invented television, the enemy of us all. Truman did not get on television;
he had to get out on the streets and talk to people who were then able to say, ‘Here we
have a true human being.’”

Miller has referred to Truman as “the last human being to occupy the White House.” Truman offered some comparisons of
Truman and Richard Nixon. “There was a time when Truman’s popularity was lower than Nixon’s. Twenty-one percent it was when
he (Truman) fired MacArthur.

“The difference between the two is that Truman had the right as Commander-in-Chiefdepartment’s biggest worry. Hughes believes that outsiders are
responsible for most of the thefts. “Early this year two school janitors were taken to court on larceny charges. Since
then, thefts have dropped off markedly. Youths in the area have also been caught with property stolen from Davidson students.
But in at least one incident of thievery this year, outside involvement is doubted and evidence indicates that a college
student was the culprit. “We are here to protect you students,” Hughes continued. His force is aware that there are
drugs on the Davidson campus. However, he says, “We will not send an officer into the dorm looking for drugs.
If we see a student smoking marijuana, we obviously must do something about it. Any investigations of drug use would
be conducted by a narcotics squad. The laws on drugs are very specific [see MILLER, page 3].

IT'S NOT TOO LATE
FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES - NO OBLIGATION - CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
INDIVIDUAL SPORTS - SCHOLARSHIPS - LEARN LEADERSHIP, SKIING, COMMUNICATIONS, MARKSMANSHIP, SCUBA - COURSE CREDIT JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARS
CASH PAYMENTS OF $100 PER MONTH FOR ALL STUDENTS JR AND SR YEARS
TRY ROTC THIS TERM
CONTACT THE ROTC DEPT. AT 336 or 337

These days, and experts would have to deal with the matter.” Hughes indicated that coeducation at Davidson has caused a
few new problems. “Sometimes we pick up men on campus from Concord, Kannapolis, and other nearby towns who have heard
there are some pretty women here and have come to see the sights. Also, my officers are a little leery
of entering the women’s dorms even when called. They’re afraid they might run into an embarrassing situation.” Overall, however, coeducation
has not caused serious security problems. Hughes credits the “good sense of the girls here” for the smooth transition. “The
new security phones in Watts, the library, and Martin can be very useful if they are not abused,” he said.
The phones are direct lines to the police dispatcher in town. “However, some students have been picking up the phones
as a joke or out of curiosity. This is a nuisance to the dispatcher.”

The Department does not deal with an area Hughes terms “vandalism.” College officials at one time asked the security force
to intervene and halt one of Davidson’s traditional water fights. But Hughes did not intend to enter the dorms and
become involved. “Seats have been ripped from Love Auditorium, dumpsters have been moved, and last year the card-lock doors of
Watts were taken off and carted to the roof of the library,” he said. “These student pranks are sometimes destructive,
but they are dealt with by Grover Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant.”

This Friday Gussie Black Latta will join the force of Precinct 2. She is the first woman to serve on
the Davidson Police force. “Mrs. Latta, a mother of three and a Davidson resident, knows many of the children in
the town,” said Hughes. “She will be able to spot those who have no business being on campus so we
can run them off. And with the female enrollment increasing, we felt that the force could better serve the students’
needs by adding a woman to the force.”

Send her home on Valentine's Day from THE FLOWER HIVE DAVIDSON | First Union National.
