YMCA, town to seek better housing
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

The Davidson YM/YWCA is cooperating with community leaders in an effort to upgrade the substandard housing in some areas of
the town.

“We are proposing an action-oriented program which will make students aware of opportunities beyond their books and will help improve
the available housing in Davidson,” said YMCA President John McArthur. “Inadequate houses will be torn down and poor families will
receive financial assistance to build new homes,” he said.

“Martin Eakes and I met with board members of Davidson Community Development, Inc., a non-profit corporation of concerned townsmen. The
corporation, formed several years ago, is led by some of the community’s black leaders. Until recently, it has not been
active,” continued McArthur.

The corporation has drafted a plan for the project which calls for $74,500 to finance its activities.

“The YMCA will supply $1500 and we expect the Davidson College Presbyterian Church to add another five to eight thousand.
The remainder will be sought from businessmen, alumni, and foundations,” Eakes said.

“There is a land shortage in Davidson, but the plan we propose should bypass that roadblock to improvement. We are
negotiating with the College to acquire one vacant plot of the school’s land at Lakeside, a low-cost housing development for
College employees.

“We are contracting a construction firm to build on that lot the shell of a house, leaving the interior unfinished
except for plumbing and electrical outlets,” Eakes continued. “Finishing materials will be purchased, and John Umhau will be in charge
of enlisting student manpower to complete the house. When finished, it will serve as a rental unit.”

McArthur described how the rebuilding process would work. “A family living in substandard housing will move into the rental unit.
Their old house will be torn down and on the same site will be constructed a new house. Upon its
completion, the family ends their stay in the rental unit and moves into a new home.

“In addition to the rental-unit plan, we are purchasing four more vacant lots in hopes of starting a ‘musical lots’
process. A family in substandard housing will receive financial help from the Corporation, purchase one of our lots, build a
house on it, and move to the new home. The Corporation will buy the family’s old lot and tear down
the substandard housing, thus preparing the lot for the use of another buyer,” said Eakes.

“We're going to talk to the FHA people in Charlotte concerning the technicalities of the financial assistance we will give
to the needy families.” Eakes stressed the importance of the need for volunteer participation. “This is an ambitious plan, and
its success depends upon the continuing interest of both the Davidson students and the community.”

The Davidsonian recently, it has not been active,” continued McArthur.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow Dr. Clewell spoke at Davidson this past week. See story, page 3.

Faculty Executive Committee alters calendar, drops exam study periods
By MARGARET HUNTER
Staff Writer

The 1976-77 academic calendar, as recently set by the faculty Executive Committee, differs in four ways from the 1975-76 calendar.

First, the College Conference day, which has been part of the calendar for the last three years, has been dropped
from the calendar for next year.

Second, the reading day between the end of Fall term classes and the beginning of Fall term exams has been
eliminated. Fall classes will end on a Tuesday afternoon and exams will begin the next morning and run through Saturday.

Third, Thanksgiving break, which begins after Fall exams, has been lengthened by three days. The additional three days are a
result of the exam period being shortened by that amount.

Fourth, the reading day between the end of Spring term classes and the beginning of Spring term exams has also
been eliminated. Spring classes end on a Friday, with exams beginning the next Monday.Morning and running through Wednesday. Exams at
the end of this year’s Spring term do not begin until Monday after classes end on Friday. SGA Senate representative
Pat Hudson went to the Executive Committee on March 17 to protest the dropping of the study days. Hudson asked
that the Fall and Spring study days be reinstated. The Executive Committee refused to do so. Hudson also proposed that
the first day of classes after Christmas break be one day later, on a Tuesday instead of a Monday. Hudson
argued that this would eliminate students having to fight crowded weekend roads and plane schedules. The Executive Committee also declined
to make this change.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Frontis W. Johnston commented on the reasons for the calendar changes. “The committee felt that
this was the best calendar under the circumstances.” Johnston added that the College Conference Day “just couldn’t be worked in
conveniently that term.” Dean of Students Will Terry commented, “People felt that with self-scheduled exams the reading day was not
as crucial. We did lengthen the break between Fall and Winter terms.” He noted that the longer break will allow
the faculty and Registrar’s Office [see NEW, page 3].

Widenhouse, Gergen grab consecutive forensic wins

The Davidson College Debate team continued its successes during the past several weeks, as they captured two consecutive tournament titles.
During the Spring recess, the varsity duo of Gordon Widenhouse and Mark Gergen won The Citadel Invitational Tournament held in
Charleston, S.C. Widenhouse was named the top speaker at the event, while Gergen placed second. The team defeated Emory University
in the final round, as all five judges voted for Davidson. Earlier, the two had defeated Carson-Newman on a 3-0
decision in the semi-finals.

“We were certainly pleased with the results of the Citadel event,” said Widenhouse, who is captain of this year’s squad.
“This marked the first time that I have felt a Davidson team had completely dominated a tournament.” Also competing at
the Citadel was the junior varsity team of Nancy Northcott and Maria Patterson. The two finished with a 5-2 record,
losing the quarter-final round to Mercer. The tourney included 40 teams from ten states, considerably more than in previous years.
Other schools which Davidson defeated included Duke, Henderson, Virginia Tech, Navy, Troy State, and Shaw. “I thought that it was
a very successful tournament for us and should provide momentum for the rest of the season,” commented Widenhouse.

The momentum was evident when the team traveled to the South Atlantic Forensic Tournament at Lenoir-Rhyne College last weekend. In
that competition, the team successfully defended its sweepstakes crown by accumulating more total points than any other school. The Albert
Kiser Memorial Award, a traveling trophy which signifies the sweepstakes title, will remain at Davidson for another year. Widenhouse and
Gergen once again won the debate championship, defeating Marshall University in the semi-finals and the College of William and Mary
in the final round. That victory was also a repeat for Widenhouse, as he had been on the team that
won the same tournament’s crown last year. Gergen and Widenhouse finished the tournament with a 7-1 record.

In addition to debate, Davidson also entered the individual competition. Rick Roylance won top honors in Oral Interpretation and placed
second in After Dinner Speaking. Gergen, Patterson, and Widenhouse finished third, fourth, and fifth, respectively, in Impromptu Speaking. “We all
got a great deal of satisfaction from winning the sweepstakes title again,” Widenhouse admitted. “It was really an upset when
we won it last year and everyone was out to get us this time. I did not think we had
the manpower to win it all this time. It certainly took an enormous effort by all those who attended.”

“I think we are taking the first critical steps toward making a ‘name’ for Davidson debate in the southeast and
mid-Atlantic area,” said Widenhouse.
