_* us he October 22, 1976 the davidsonian L .. -MacCormac eyes.myth, -Irv Wilson

“AH DON’T like yo’ face, polecat;” Sheriff Brown intimidates lawbreakers in Homecoming halftime festivities.

A senior guy commented, “They had too much going on. The fun and the money spent should be spread out
over the whole term, but I doubt if they’ll ever do that.”

Useful

Despite these provocative criticisms of a minority, most students agree that the concept of the big weekend, though not ideal,
does serve several useful functions. For example, Homecoming lures the library rats out of E.H. Little Mausoleum. According to one
junior, “It’s a good incentive to let pre-meds loosen up; lots of people won’t party except on a big weekend.”
And, of course, it gives those already so inclined the slight excuse necessary to indulge in pagan debauchery on a
more intensive level. “It’s a good reason to splurge,” stated one junior girl.

The big weekend concept also allows the concentration of events and ensures a good turnout. Houses, fraternities, and the school
can schedule a variety of activities and expect a good response. Socializing, which is often neglected at other times due
to academic obligations, hits a peak on these extended weekends.

Pressure to date

One integral yet controversial aspect of big weekends which is illustrative of their less than ideal but apparently beneficial nature
is dating. Those who have a negative view of big weekend dating base their case on arguments similar to the
aforementioned criticisms of the artificial formality which allegedly pervades the big weekend. They tend to focus on the unnatural increase
in the pressure to date. Commented a junior guy, “There’s a lot of social status tied up with getting a
date; girls coming from other colleges—that’s hardly a homecoming.” This anxiety over status and pressure is reflected in the following
remark made by a freshman girl: “For a girl not to have a date puts her at about the bottom
of the barrel. Because there are so few girls, all of them should have dates.” And one sophomore girl, summing
up her negative view of big weekend dating, said, “It’s totally unnatural; you’re expected to date and if you don’t
you’re out of the scene.”

In many cases, students interviewed did connect their high expectations with the fact that they had a date. “It’ll be
great—I’ve got a date with a football player,” commented one beaming freshman. A sophomore put it this way: “I had
a good time but it all rests on the fact that I had a date, every single bit; there should
be more activities for non-daters.”

Strange as it may seem, the positive view of big weekend dating was also based on the increased pressure to
date. This view was summed up by a freshman girl: “Homecoming helps the social scene because it forces people to
date, to get involved socially. It’s unhealthy to relate only on an intellectual level; social interaction is good (and good
for you). Guys are too worried about being turned down; the social pressure of a big weekend is definitely beneficial.”

Escape

Some students, perhaps fearing the power of the self-fulfilling prophecy, chose to escape what they expected to [see HOMECOMING, page
9]

By SAM CRAWFORD
Staff Writer

Earl R. MacCormac, Metaphor and Myth in Science and Religion, Duke Publishing Company, $7.95, 167 pp.

I find nothing more irritating than the sight of a young student of science striding forth from the doors of
Martin, clutching a slide rulein one hand and a bagful of concepts in the other, intent upon solving the problems
of the world. Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac’s new book, *Metaphor and Myth in Science and Religion*, provides a sufficient
and welcome antidote to such naive behavior. MacCormac’s thesis is that religion is not purely subjective nor is science purely
objective. Instead, he argues that both are conceptual explanations of human experience that necessarily use metaphor in the acquisition and
explanation of knowledge. Both are subject to the problems of myth.

MacCormac notes in the preface that discarded scientific theories are as mythical as religious stories and fables. At one time,
both were believed to be actual accounts of reality and both have since been found lacking. This is a highly
important observation. MacCormac questions the attitude adopted by many scientists in conjunction with their philosophical cronies, the logical positivists, that
religious language and therefore religious discourse is largely meaningless while scientific language epitomizes meaningful communication. By juxtaposing metaphor with scientific
and religious language, MacCormac not only describes the subjective deviations of both science and religion, but also contributes valuable insights
into the nature of the metaphor and its close relationship with myth in any field of human investigation.

In debunking the erroneous concept of purely objective science, MacCormac attempts to restore some balance between science and religion and
argues that the limits of scientific account and investigation should be popularly recognized. MacCormac’s book is divided into five sections.
Chapters I and II present a well-constructed and brief history of the positivist movement and its relationship with and effects
upon the philosophy of science, religion, and twentieth-century apologetics. He leads the reader through the evolution of positivist philosophy and
the thought it has stimulated, highlighting the contributions of Rudolph Carnap, Thomas Kuhn, Karl Popper, John Hick, and Ludwig Wittgenstein,
among others, and concepts such as the positivist notion of verifiability and falsifiability.

Chapter III presents a version of the “tension theory of metaphor” whereby two usually separate concepts are linked to express
a new viewpoint or idea. This theory differs from a standard account of metaphor in that it views metaphor as
a process and not a static concept. The meaning of all language which uses metaphor is a changing and evolving
phenomenon. The relationship between metaphor and myth is clarified in Chapter IV by MacCormac’s definition of myth as, “the mistaken
attribution of reality to a diaphoric metaphor.” (A diaphoric metaphor is one that is not commonly used and still has
the power to express possible meanings.) This premise leads to some remarkable conclusions.

One of the great virtues of this work is its intelligibility to the layman and to the student. Although some
training in formal logic and a familiarity with linguistic analysis would enhance the reader’s comprehension, neither one is a prerequisite.
Furthermore, the reader of Thomas Kuhn's *The Structure of Scientific Revolutions* will enjoy MacCormac's work and should discover a relationship
between his book and Kuhn’s. MacCormac’s style of writing belies the prejudice that all philosophers who commit their thoughts to
paper subscribe to an honored tradition of obscurantism. This work is a tightly knit treatment of a problem that merits
the attention of anyone with an interest in philosophy, science, or theology. It upholds MacCormac’s reputation as an articulate and
competent philosopher.

DURING the Homecoming weekend, some students felt the need to seek solitude in their own rooms.
