December 10, 1976

Cats gain depth, collect 2-0 record
By STEVE RISLEY
Staff Writer

This year’s edition of the Davidson College swim team will feature, “a greatly improved and stronger group of upperclassmen with
a young talented freshman class,” according to Coach Pat Miller. The upperclassmen will be led by returning lettermen and Co-Captains
Ron Owens and Mike Knowles. Owens will swim the Individual Medley and butterfly events while Knowles is expected to lead
the Wildcat distance freestylers. Other returning lettermen are Skip Barkley, Marshall Brown, John Frederick, Ken Norwood, Jonathon Washburn, and Jim
Wood.

The freshman class will give Davidson the depth it has never before enjoyed. Leading this talented group will be Mike
Verwest and Steve Yood in the distance freestyle and Mark Tommerdahl in the butterfly events. Although Tommerdahl is presently fighting
a case of mononucleosis, he is expected to return to the team following the Christmas break. Other freshmen to watch
are Phil Koonce, Dave Lennox, Steve Bisley, Tom Spongles, and Kirk Williams.

Ted Mumby and Mike Robinson will comprise the diving team for the Cats this year. Mumby, a senior, has four
years of experience behind him and should score well all year for Davidson.

Early season meets with UNC-Greensboro and Pfeiffer proved to be little trouble for the Wildcats as they rolled over both
opponents by more than 20 points. In the UNC-G meet, Davidson showed its strength by breaking two team and four
pool records. Jonathon Washburn led the way, establishing a new team record along with two pool marks. The 400-yard medley
relay team of Washburn, Norwood, Tommerdahl, and Yood also broke a team record, while Tommerdahl and Verwest both set new
pool marks.

The Cats will take to the water next on Jan. 5 in Greenville, S.C. against Furman and South Carolina State.
The next chances for you to see the only undefeated team at Davidson College will be Fri., Jan. 14 vs.
Madison College at 4 pm and the following day, Jan. 15 vs. Augusta at 2 pm.

RETURNING LETTERMAN MARSHALL BROWN glides through the water to add points to the Davidson swimmers’ 2-0 record for the season.
- Irv Wilson

Lady Cagers drop openers, 0-2 record
By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

Women’s basketball began officially last week when the female Wildcats played well under the “trees” of Western Carolina, but suffered
a disappointing loss. The second game of the season was played against Mars Hill, at Mars Hill, on Monday, Dec.
6. The Wildcats showed their playing ability when even though toying with Mars Hill’s six-foot-three center, the halftime score was
40-32 (Mars Hill’s favor). The second half was a virtual reversal of the first half, and Mars Hill ran the
score up 87-62.

Both these losses have been extremely disappointing, but the Wildcats have shown that they have the capability to win according
to Coach Susie Roberts. Roberts is optimistic about future games. “The team is beginning to gain more confidence,” she said.
The next two games are to be played at home. The first is with UNCC at 7:00 on Thursday, Dec.
9, and the second is with...Catawba at 7:00 on Monday, Dec. 13. The Wildcats are eager to prove to themselves
and to the school that they can win, and hope to begin on Dec. 9. “We're looking forward to our
next two home games, hoping we will leave for Christmas with a record of 2-2,” beamed Roberts.

Shooters post 9-3
By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

Davidson's rifle team upped its record to 9-3 with wins over South Carolina State, Wofford, Presbyterian, and Wake Forest at
last Saturday’s Western Carolina conference meet at Orangeburg, South Carolina. The Wildcats' only loss in the six-way meet was to
the nationally ranked team from Appalachian State.

Showing much improvement since the start of the season, Davidson shooters posted a team score of 1273 out of a
possible 1500 as compared to a 1248 for the season opener and a 1261 at the last W.C.C. meet on
October 30th. High scorer for Davidson was senior Ben Simms with a 263. Sophomore Tom Niblock posted a 257, and
junior Tom Miller shot a 253, followed by sophomore Bob Shoulders with a 252. Sophomore Katherine Whitney added a 248
to round out the Wildcat five.

No Davidson shooter took top honors in any of the three shooting positions but a well-balanced team effort gave the
shooters their second-place berth.

CAT HIGH SCORER John Gerdy - Irv Wilson reaches for the ball. See story on page 15.

Mid-season record
Coach Flannigan commenting on his team said, “Generally, I was pleased with our performance Saturday. The team is still young
and we have much potential for growth. Our freshmen prospects are looking very strong.”

[see SHOOTERS, page 14]

VOTE TUESDAY!

and the Local Church
Witness Lee
Who Is This Man and
Guru Maharaj Ji and the Divine Light
What Does He Want?

(There) is only one law that is necessary for the governments to make .... and that law would be to
gain the knowledge of Science of Creative Intelligence and practice Transcendental Meditation twice a day. With this one law, the
purpose of all the laws will be fulfilled.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, 1974

The team is made up largely of upperclassmen, so they’ve played together before and know each other’s moves. Also, the
freshmen are adapting well and have brought new skills to the team. “We play well together, as a team, with
everyone contributing,” said Roberts.

There are two games left before Christmas break, both

10% OFF ON ALL JEANS, JUMPSUITS, SWEATERS, SHIRTS, HATS, & JACKETS

Werner Erhard and est
For accurate information on TM plus other ‘New Age’ groups and gurus, examined from a Biblical perspective, write:
Spiritual Counterfeits Project
Dept. M, P.O. Box 4308, Berkeley, CA 94704

The Hare Krishnas
Victor Paul Wierwille and The Way
Occultism
