Young, Brown clinch top SGA posts

By LYMAN COLLINS
Assistant News Editor

By a margin of twenty-seven votes, Thom Young narrowly defeated Roger Brown in the election for the office of SGA President. In the Vice-Presidential contest, Bruce Brown edged by Guy DiCenzo with 495 votes to DiCenzo’s 457.

“One of the first things I’m going to do is sit down with (outgoing SGA President) Bo Baskin and all the committee chairmen to see where their committees stand,” said Young. “I want to try to get them to complete their projects and while we must think about this positively, some committees might feel that their particular committee needs to dissolve.”

Young praised the work that Baskin and the Senate have done up to this time and indicated that he was confident that their relationship will continue on such a successful note. “I want to stress the fact that I want to have a very open Senate,” he continued. “Every student does not have to have a title to do something for Davidson College.”

Young explained that one of his initial programs will be to revitalize and reorganize an Interorganizational Forum such as had been in effect here in past years. “We need coordination. There’s a lot going on here that is either overlapping or merely an empty space,” he emphasized. “Let’s get the whole community in the SGA.”

Incoming SGA Vice-President Bruce Brown reiterated Young’s ideas, indicating that he would like to involve himself in such a board. “There should be more involvement with outside organizations including the media,” he said.

Young also expressed a desire for more coordination between the Senate and The Davidsonian. “I hope the relationship between the Senate and The Davidsonian can become closer so that the paper reports the positive aspects of the Senate and the SGA,” Young said. “We can both benefit from reporting everything that the SGA is doing.”

Young expressed satisfaction with the Senate visitation program. He wants to examine and evaluate the program but he basically thinks that it is “a good program.” Brown indicated that he wants to continue working closely with the program. “I think that this is one area that can be made more efficient,” he said. “We’re in the right direction and the image of the SGA has risen since we began the program.”

Young wants to continue the work begun on faculty evaluation. He wants to have a course evaluation handbook. “The reason it wasn't published last year was because there wasn't enough student input, only about 25 percent of the students responded,” he explained. “Bo has suggested paying someone to edit the evaluation handbook. I certainly think that idea should be explored because the idea of a handbook is an excellent one,” he added.

One of Brown's major jobs will be to head the Residence Hall Council. He will concentrate mainly on dorm improvements in this capacity. “There’s a lot of improvement to be made,” he said, “including off-campus expansion.” Brown plans to explore the possibility of increasing the number of kitchens and lounges in dorms “depending on the amount of space we have. It would be the next logical step,” he said.

Young expressed his appreciation to all who helped him win the election and emphasized that he wanted people to feel free to drop suggestions.

Vol. LXVI, No. ELEVEN
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
December 17, 1976

Landis edits paper

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

The new editor of The Davidsonian, selected Tuesday by a vote of the SGA, is Catherine Landis. Landis is a junior from Chattanooga, Tennessee. She is the first female to occupy the office, a distinction she says she is “proud” to claim.

“I am very pleased but I do not feel at an advantage or disadvantage because I am a woman. I can’t help but feel a little proud about being a first,” explained Landis. Landis’ first actionAfter her election, one of the first tasks was to assign positions to Davidsonian staff members. She announced that Bill Barnett would continue as Editorial Page Editor, a position he has held for some months. She also indicated that Lyman Collins would be switched to Sports Editor from his current position as Assistant News Editor. Philip Duncan, who has also served the paper as Assistant News Editor until now, will become the News Editor. Erica Gjersvik, a newcomer to the paper’s staff, will be made Features Editor. Amanda Hall, who has served for the whole year as Sports Editor, will become the Managing Editor, according to Landis. Dave Keller, who narrowly lost the election for editor to Landis, will serve The Davidsonian as its Executive Editor. Landis announced the creation of a new position as well, that being Copy Editor. Nancy McNair will hold this position. The business staff has been reshuffled too. Warren Soule will assume the position of Business Manager, while Kevin Shelly will become Advertising Manager.

“Because I felt that several people on the staff deserved the challenge of new positions,” said Landis, “I moved the staff around. I also wanted to channel potential talent that I saw into new directions.”

[see FRESH, page 2]

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the Christmas Holidays. We will resume publication on January 14. Merry Christmas!

CATHY LANDIS prepares to meet the challenge of editorship.

Banquet Hall renovation will yield new art gallery/multipurpose room
By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

The renovation of Chambers Banquet Hall into a year-round art gallery/multipurpose room, started three weeks ago, is due to be completed in mid-January. The decision to provide space for a “more or less permanent gallery” was made both because the Art Department “has been having quite a few shows” and because “we have a place for art where the people are,” according to Grover Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant and the man in charge of the renovation project.

The Banquet Hall was selected because it is the largest available space in the most active building on campus. The end result will represent the combined effort of Grover Meetze, his workers, and the Art Department. “We worked closely with the Art Department which reviewed all plans on the project,” said Meetze. A “flexible design” was needed, since the room will be used as an art gallery and a dining area, as well as for coffees and receptions.

Major structural changes in the Hall include blocking the use of the central doors behind the stage, and closing one set of windows on each side of the Hall to allow room for large art displays. The back of the Hall is being converted into a storage area for art and furniture, and being equipped for food preparation. Meetze’s idea for constructing triangular-shaped movable display columns will add to the hanging space available in the hall. These columns will be stored in the back of the Hall when not in use, and can be rolled out onto the floor and positioned to form small display “rooms” or partitions for an art showing. The walls and the columns will be covered with plywood and vinyl to allow artwork to be hung.

The stage area will be equipped with microphone outlets and a roll-away screen. Speakers hung from ceiling outlets will allow for a low-level, modulated voice to be heard, with a minimum of echo and reverberation throughout the room. Overhead spotlights, in addition to the Hall's central lighting, have been installed to shine on the movable display columns. Furnishings in the Hall will include metal benches, neutral-colored upholstery material, and carpeting.

“In-house planning and work” have kept costs for the renovation of the Banquet Hall to a minimum, according to Meetze. He feels that “the Hall will create an atmosphere that will help campus life a lot.”