March 19, 1976

The Davidsonian

Editors plan three annuals, ‘74-‘75 book available in fall

By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

Editors are currently working on three different editions of the Davidson College Quips and Cranks. Zach Long is coordinating the
1974-1975 book because Carroll Ensley, the editor, neglected to finish the book before graduating. Long expects the book to be
finished by mid-summer and will mail it to the Classes of 1975 and 1976. The other two classes will be
able to pick up the book in September when they return to Davidson.

“I regret that it’s that late, but we were late getting our material and I haven’t had time to do
the things I wanted to do in the book,” said Long. “The students who have been doing the assignments have
been working since the week after the material came in.”

“I thought I'd be further along on the book than I am. It’s moving slowly along.” The copy had to
be ready to send to the printers by the end of February for the yearbook to come out this spring.
The staff didn’t receive the material until January 10, and six weeks is not long enough to put out a
good product, according to Long.

“In all due respects to everything that’s been said about Carroll, he did do some work on the annual. He
had a basic format and sent everything he had to us,” said Long. According to Long, the staff’s major problem
is the lack of activity and sports pictures. There is also little material from the fraternities and eating clubs and
about 100 class pictures.

“Carroll had his own ideas about what he wanted in his book, and that’s perfectly all right. If we want
to have frat pictures or activity pictures we'll have a hard time resurrecting them because they’re basically taken by mistake,”
said Long. “We have shots in almost all sports, but in some the quality is not exactly what we desired.
The tragedy is that you can’t restage these pictures,” he continued.

The staff is asking the fraternities and individuals for any pictures they have of the 1974-1975 year. The senior informal
section has been laid out and some copy is being written now, according to Long. Long asks for student help
preparing the yearbook. “I’m particularly pleased with the work of Alice Rogers, Doris Phillips, Ron Chappel, Pete Goodman, and Robbie
Hutchinson have done since we’ve started working on the annual. There is still some ‘dirty work’, that is, typing and
research, to be done, and the sooner we get some assistants to help the sooner the book will be out,”
he said.

“The 1975-1976 yearbook is moving along pretty well right now,” said Randy Hunter, editor of the 1975-1976 yearbook. “But some
of the pictures in the candid section aren’t done because the photographers haven’t developed them,” he continued. The staff needs
to have 78 pages done to meet their first deadline, April 1. According to Hunter, they will send the class
and faculty pages which

[Continued from page 1]

Omitting Saturday as a study day for Spring term exams will allow the administration one day more for clearing the
dormitories, processing grades, and printing the programs, among other things, in preparation for commencement on Sunday.

The SGA Senate passed a resolution March 16 requesting reinstatement of the exam study days, addition of the extra day
for Christmas break, and cancellation of classes on Good Friday. SGA President Bo Baskin will take it before the Executive
Committee next month.

Baskin commented, “Opening Good Friday is simply a value judgment, this being a Christian institution. As the calendar stands now,
next year’s Winter term classes will have a slight advantage of a weekend between classes and exams, something Fall and
Spring will not.”

The Faculty Executive Committee consists of College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., Johnston, and Terry, ex officio, and faculty members
Kelton, Nelson, Winkler, Burnett, D. Grant, and Holland.number many more than 78. The yearbook does not have a specific theme
according to Hunter, but is an all-around representation of the school year. The 1975-1976 yearbook has nothing in it that
will be censored, according to Hunter. "Our staff is being responsible enough not to have anything in it that should
be censored," he said.

Sue McAvoy and Robbie Hutchinson, co-editors for the 1976-1977 yearbook, have formed their staff of editors and photographers. The editors
haven’t chosen their printer yet because, "It depends on how much money we'll be allocated for the budget. We don’t
have our budget yet so we haven’t been able to do anything that uses money," said McAvoy. "The only real
progress we've made is forming our staff because we figure the best way to go about it is to set
up our editors," she said. "We'll be asking for people to help out not as editors but as staff next
year." The 1976-1977 yearbook will come out in September of 1977, according to McAvoy.

YES, VIRGINIA, there will be a 1974-75 issue of the Quips and Cranks. But it won't be available until September,
1976. -Leon Venable

School seeks coach
By BILL BARNES
News Editor

The Athletic department has recently initiated a search for a woman coach and physical education instructor. Assistant Professor of Physical
Education Chip Stone expects all applications for the position to be received by the beginning of May. He feels the
search should be completed by the middle of that month.

The new coach ideally will perform four functions which are at present needed within the Athletic department. She will be
Head Women’s Basketball Coach, coach of a women’s club field hockey team, be capable of teaching gymnastics, and of performing
as a P.E. instructor. "The lady’s gonna have to be versatile," said Stone, who also cited experience on the college
level and a Master’s degree in physical education as preferred qualifications for the new coach.

According to Stone, the Athletic department would also like to expand its modern dance program. "At present we have five
or six sections," said Stone. "We’d like to add another five or six."

The new coach will only fill the vacancy left by women’s basketball coach Rosa Janaro’s exit this year. "It sure
would be super if we could get two," said Stone. According to Stone, the athletic budget is not large enough
to support more than one new member.

SGA mandates sign
By STEPHEN BELL
Senior News Editor

The SGA Senate passed a resolution at its meeting Tuesday night calling for a traffic sign to be put on
Main Street to indicate the driveway to the Davidson College campus. The resolution passed by a vote of 13-0. SGA
Senator Carter Todd introduced the resolution because of the obscurity of the driveway, located narrowly between a private home and
a several-times-dented tree. "A lot of students coming from Mooresville at night don’t even see the driveway," explained Senator Todd.

At the meeting Tuesday, the Senate accepted the resignation of Chuck Weber, senator for the off-campus students. A new election
will be held within a month for an off-campus senator to serve until the end of the year.

In activity the previous week, the Senate passed a resolution, introduced by Senator David Tinkler, calling for the Davidson College
faculty to develop and administer a new course evaluation questionnaire. This move signifies a change in the Senate’s attitude to
course evaluation from that of last fall, when the SGA Learning Committee, then chaired by Roger Brown, had administered a
course evaluation form on its own. Tinkler’s resolution, which passed 15-0, also calls for student input on the development of
the questionnaire.

Saturday, Mar. 20
8 & 10:30 P.M.
D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
"The Boys in the Band"

Hallmark cards. Remember friends and relatives with thoughtful gifts.
THE VILLAGE STORE of Davidson "Brings You A World of Gifts"
