April 2, 1976

News Analysis

Reagan blunders,
Ford gains ground

By BILL PITMAN
Staff Writer

After showing good leads over Ford in pre-primary polls taken in New Hampshire and Florida, Ronald Reagan blew it.

By coming out with his 90-billion dollar federal budget cut and let-the-states-take-up-the-slack plan, along with some mumbled something about investing
Social Security funds in the Stock Market, he gave Ford the ammunition necessary to make him take cover.

Reagan spent the last moments before the New Hampshire showdown trying to explain away Ford’s charges of amateurism and ineptitude,
and tried to present himself as conservatism’s fair-haired hero who would ride into Washington and clean up government. His boyish
smile, smooth talking, and organization were not enough, however, as New Hampshire voters gave the President a stunning upset victory.

Reagan, believing he could knock Ford out of the race in the early primaries, was forced to change his Florida
strategy. Breaking what he called the Republican 11th Commandment, the former California governor vigorously attacked Ford, especially on detente and
slipping military might. Again, this was not enough. Ford, having forced Reagan to defend and clarify his controversial economic plans,
realized, after much thought and deliberation, that he was, after all, President.

Florida, one of the solidly conservative states on which Reagan counted, was chalked up to the incumbent. Ford, confident and
in charge, had Reagan gasping for breath going into North Carolina. The Californian’s campaign was in deep trouble and there
were calls from Republican leaders, notably N.C. Governor Holshouser, for Reagan to junk his adventure. Reagan responded by campaigning relentlessly
and by embarrassing Ford’s regional campaign manager in his home governorship.

While keeping Reagan’s chances alive, the North Carolina victory seems to change little in the long run. Tearing the nomination
away from an incumbent President is a mammoth job. Even during the depths of the Depression, Republicans returned Herbert Hoover
as their candidate.

Reagan supporters saw a flaw in the application of this precedent, however, in that Ford had been placed in office
by Congress, not a national vote. Also, he appeared in the beginning of the race to be a stumbling, uninspiring,
nice guy, who was put in a job well above his ability. After Florida, this no longer seems true.

Ford, at least in image, comes across as the man of confidence, the man in control. Citizens see Ford now
as President, a force to be dealt with, and not as a stop-gap measure of Watergate.

In addition to his problem of battling an incumbent, Reagan must show himself to be an alternative to Ford. Reagan
must show how he differs from the President on the issues.

Reagan must persuade voters that his extra little bit to the right will bring big returns.

On federal spending, for example, both want to hold the line, although Reagan, with his $90-billion budget cut, would be
much more austere in his quest to balance the federal budget. Concerning unemployment, both agree that government public service jobs
are not the answer, and that this problem should be solved by the private sector. Both oppose forced busing, but
Ford will not go along with Reagan on a constitutional amendment. Both disapprove of abortion on demand, but again, Ford
will not support an amendment to the Constitution, as would Reagan.

Perhaps the most important issue, on which Ford is extremely vulnerable, is detente and our sagging military posture. Indeed, Ford
has dropped detente from his vocabulary; Reagan has not. To Reagan, Ford’s detente is a one-way giveaway by the U.S.
He has allowed our military to become number two, thus threatening our security and the security of the free world.

If Reagan is a long shot to replace Ford, why is he still running and what will be the effects
of him staying in the race? Obviously, long shot or not, he believes he has some chance of winning. Perhaps
he has aspirations to become Ford’s Vice-President, although he has denied this. It is possible that Reagan believes that even
if he does not win, he will pull the President more to the “right.” This has happened as Ford blasted
Castro (“the International Outlaw”) and repeatedly emphasized his belief in a strong military.

Great new action shoe from Bata!

Slip into a pair of smooth fitting “Joggers.” Cruise around the neighborhood in them. Or stay home in them. Or
step out in them. They've got great style and real comfort for sports or casual wear. The unique toe and
heel design, combined with specially engineered tread pattern give you great grip, good flexibility, and quick take off. You can
get them in brilliant colors with matching topstitching, fashioned of long-wearing, good-looking nylon. And, you get all this at a
moderate price...from BATA.

the STUDENT STORE
