the davidsonian

April 23, 1976

ART LOVERS view the last Davidson National for a while, as next year’s show is cancelled and the future of the event remains uncertain.

[Continued from page 1]

will be circulated by the committee members this week.

The committee will hold a “Save the Davidson National Day” Saturday to “see how much student support is behind what we’re trying to do, not to get a whole lot of money,” according to Strange. He said that the purpose is to be able to show the different organizations the students are supporting the National and that Davidson is not just asking for money.

The weekend will include afternoon games, a benefit night in the 900 Room, and a funeral for the National.

The games will be held in the Belk quad, beginning at 2:00. The competition will be between teams of five people in Egg Toss, MacCabbee’s Race, a single elimination volleyball tournament, Dizzy Lizzy, Peanut Push, Wheelbarrow Race, Water Balloon Fight, and hopefully a Professor Pie Throw.

Each team will be required to pay a five dollar entrance fee for the events. To enter a team should contact a member of the committee.

There will be five free kegs of beer, according to Strange, and one keg and a college apartment for the weekend will be raffled. Raffle tickets cost three for a dollar or 50 cents each.

The committee will run a concession stand at the movie in front of Chambers Saturday night (showing will be A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum). Afterwards, they will host the benefit night in the 900 Room and the disco dance at 10:30.

The 50 cent admission charge to the 900 Room will go to the Davidson National.

The funeral for the National will be held at 4:00 Saturday, according to Strange.

“We're going to bury the National. We’re going to try to borrow a casket from somewhere and a hearse,” he said. The committee plans to have flowers, a tent, and a eulogy by a minister. Strange asks everyone who attends to try to dress in black.

“That’s the main thing we need everyone out for,” said Strange. “We'll present the petition that will be passed around later this week and we'll present any money we’ve earned.”

NATIONAL JUDGE MARSHA TUCKER on abandoning the show: “I think it would be a disaster. If the show went, it would be a real loss.”

-Leon Venable

PAPERBACK BOOKS FOR BOOKLOVERS

Quality Titles from the Active Lists of America’s Leading Publishers

BOOKTHRIFT

STUDENT STORE