January 30, 1976

The Davidsonian

RAGTIME
E. L. Doctorow
Random House, 1975

By PAUL WELCH
Staff Writer

Whoever wrote the teaser on the inside of the dust jacket was right. I never had read anything like this
before. Ragtime could be called historical fiction, but I think it is really fictional history. The book deals with three
American families during the years between 1902 and 1915, when “a certain light was still available along the Eastern Seaboard.”
By this light, Doctorow shows us characters and events not precisely as they were, but as they should have been.
By that I don’t mean to say that this is a piece of nostalgia. Despite both our advertisement-induced conception of
“the good old days” and the complacent Victorian mind-set of the period, “there were Negroes. There were immigrants.” We meet
representatives of both these groups, but we also meet people like Harry Houdini, J. P. Morgan, Henry Ford, and Sigmund
Freud. Their lives intertwine with those of the three families in a plot which, though coincidental, is no more so
than most Greek tragedies. The use of coincidence is made believable by a wealth of descriptive detail. For instance: did
you know that the snap-on harness used to attach horses to old-style fire engines was made by the P. A.
Setzer Company of Hickory, North Carolina? I didn’t, either. I still don’t; Doctorow could be making it up. But I
believe him.

Donation of Oriental Rug Carries Fertile Promise for Flourishing Future
By JOHN PARKERSON
Staff Writer

Between the incunabula and the skull cast of Marshall Ney in the library, lies one of the College’s most uniquely
valuable and off-beat donations. The treasure is a wool oriental carpet, given by Dr. Frank W. Price '15 and other
alumni in China on the occasion of Davidson’s Centennial Celebration in June of 1937. Dr. Price was a medical missionary,
founding Editor of The Davidsonian, and is one of the four famous Price brothers, each of whom received an honorary
degree from Davidson, the only family with such a distinction. Master weavers in China followed a pattern designed by Price,
using the traditional Davidson colors of black, red, and white (beige), with the College seal. The seal does not have
all of the characteristics of the official seal. The NE ULTRA (This far and no farther) is missing and the
school motto ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS (let learning be cherished where liberty has arisen) has the L and I
elided, reading: ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA UBERTAS (let learning be cherished where fertility has arisen). This renders no real flaw
to the beauty and utility of the rug.

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, the college Archivist, has noted the declining numbers of alumni children attending Davidson. “Davidson alumni are successful
in every field except one—producing children. If we have about 10,000 living alumni, it seems that out of a freshman
class of 300, at least ten percent ought to be alumni children, which is rarely if ever the case. This
is a problem needing solution. Perhaps a possible one—more contact with the oriental rug,” commented Davidson.

The rug measures roughly five by six feet, and has a white fringed finish along the shorter sides. A wide
red border with a thin black stripe surrounds a predominantly beige background. From the upper and lower left corners, highly
stylized bamboo in black and varying shades of yellow, red, and beige stretches toward the center of the rug, where
the seal is represented in red and black. For a few years the rug hung on a wall of the
Carnegie Library, considered a decoration and too valuable for use as a rug. However, students knowledgeable in the art world
encouraged its use as a functional rug, and their claim that oriental rugs increase in value with use has been
validated.Longevity as they are used has proven true. The rug was on the floor of the Grey Library from 1941
to 1974, and has been in the Little Library since then. Although it requires an annual cleaning to prevent moth
damage, the rug appears surprisingly new.

Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Parks Rexall Drugs. COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly 892-0208

Radio Shack 92.1. Authorized Dealer Service and Sales

MOORESVILLE

Ragtime plays fictional history. The apparent authenticity of detail amid almost implausible plotlines is part of what I mean by
“events as they should have been.” Another part is this: like all good artists, the author of this book is
able to render a specific situation vividly and memorably; yet, he is somehow more than faithful to his material. One
of the achievements of Ragtime is its ability to simultaneously evoke the temper of more time than one. Turn-of-the-century America
is commonly thought of as a radically different place than our modern nation. While this may be superficially true, Doctorow
is able to get beneath the surface to probe the fundamental similarity of human situations. Here’s a quote that says
this better than I can: “Father kept himself under control by writing in his journal. This was a system, too,
the system of language and conceptualization. It proposed that human beings, by the act of making witness, warranted times and
places for their existence other than the time and place they were living through.” I would call that statement sufficient
justification for history, fiction, or both. As usual, though, I seem to have bitten off more than I can effectively
chew in five hundred words. I didn’t mean to turn this into a critical exercise. If the January blahs have
grabbed you, try this book. It’s delightful, and you don’t have to remember a thing, because it won’t be on
the exam. You might be surprised at what sticks of its own accord, though.

MODERN MAN and his urban environment is graphically depicted in George Van Allen’s work shown in the Union Art Gallery.

T.V. drama recreated
By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Slowly, painfully he carried himself on the rail of the forecastle. Vaguely, he thought it strange that no one rushed
to his aid or asked of his condition. Concentrating all the will remaining in his battered body, he managed to
focus his eyes. The deck was littered with the mangled corpses of his shipmates. His eyes moved from hulk to
hulk, pausing at each, studying what little features still unmaimed. None differed, none were recognized. The tableau was as still
as the cloudless sky above. Fear gripped him. Was he alone? Surely God would not do that. He would not
be forsaken. His faith was confirmed by the hand which dug into the back of his neck.

This week’s quiz is on cartoons. Ready?
1. George Jetson was employed by what firm? What was the competing firm?
2. What was Yogi Bear’s favorite delicacy?
3. Underdog was in reality ———
4. Name the commander of Dudley Doright’s RCMP Unit?
5. Who was the feline nemesis of Pixie and Dixie?
6. Rocky and Bullwinkle lived in ———
7. Who was the “root‘n’est toot‘n’est cowboy you ever saw”?
8. George of the Jungle was a resident of what forest?
9. Who “sometimes have their little spats, even fight like dogs and cats”?
10. In the Popeye cartoons, the Jeep ate what exotic food?

Answers:
1. Spacely Sprockets; Cogswell Cogs
2. Picnic baskets
3. Shoeshine Boy
4. Inspector Fenwick
5. Mr. Jinks
6. Frostbite Falls
7. Quick Draw McGraw
8. The African jungle
9. Tom and Jerry
10. Orchids
