the davidsonian
February 20, 1976

Kubrick creates cinematic image
By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

There may be some truth in The New Yorker's description of Barry Lyndon as a “‘coffee-table movie”: it is colorful
and opulent with the emphasis on form rather than content. But it is also a lively, sensuous film, and a
vivifying experience for anyone watching it who allows himself to be swept into its stream. It is, in short, a
magnificent celebration of the cinematic image, and, as such, is probably Stanley Kubrick’s greatest film to date.

Kubrick’s background is, after all, that of the photographer rather than writer or philosopher (he got his start taking pictures
for Look magazine). He has had stints as a social satirist (Dr. Strangelove, A Clockwork Orange, and, in a more
subtle way, Lolita) and as an esoteric metaphysician (2001: A Space Odyssey), but even these films were most successful in
the places where they were the least profound. In Barry Lyndon, Kubrick is in his element. The film isn’t totally
without a point, but whatever moral or thematic material involved arises naturally and somewhat incidentally from the images of the
film.

The film’s plot was adapted by Kubrick from William Thackeray’s picaresque novel. Barry is a predecessor of Thackeray’s Becky Sharpe,
but whereas the latter character reforms near the end of Vanity Fair, Barry Lyndon never does. Kubrick divides Barry’s career,
and the film, into two parts: his rise in status through coincidences and his own wiles, climaxed by his marriage
to the Lady Honoria Lyndon; and his subsequent decline in fortune following the marriage (the film runs a little over
three hours; I was hoping for three hours more).

His primary rise in fortune involves a duel which necessitates an escape from his home, his enlistment in the English
army and desertion to the Prussian one, and finally, his association with the Chevalier Balibari, a spy and gambler from
whom Barry learns the finer points of making a fortune and being a “gentleman.” As part two begins, he is
at the height of his fortune: master of the Lyndon estates. But he recklessly squanders the money, is subject to
grievous misfortune including the loss of his son, and ends up a broken man.

The film’s movement, for the most part, is through a series of tableaus; much of the expository material comes through
narration, beautifully spoken by Michael Hordern. Kubrick intriguingly mixes vibrant and faded, soft and stark images. As Barry and his
army comrades head off to battle in a ship, the water is a bright, postcard-color blue; as he carries a
wounded friend off the battlefield amidst the carnage of war all the colors have washed out except a dull red
and green. Kubrick uses a soft focus both idyllically and paradoxically. The feeling of paradox in the film is especially
strong: the most outstanding example of this is a duel scene near the end which is relentless in its realistic
portrayal of the duel itself, but is also subdued, almost mystical through Kubrick's impressionistic use of light.

Many of the scenes have an innate quality of greatness. One tableau has Barry and his young son in a
small boat fishing. There is also in the boat a white dog, sitting bolt upright and motionless, and, as the
camera pulls back, we see a swan on the water and shimmers of light; yet there is something beyond the
composition of the scene, something simply there, which makes it unforgettable.

As usual, Kubrick enhances his scenes with effective use of music. During early scenes in Ireland we hear traditional Irish
tunes, which, like most good folk songs, are both earthy and ethereal. The military scenes are backed by rousing marches,
including one composed by Frederick the Great. Then, as Barry begins to move in higher circles ofsociety the stately chamber
music of such composers as Bach, Vivaldi, and Schubert is used. The overall "theme music" of the film is a
Handel sarabande, which is courtly and formal, and, at the same time, restless and foreboding. Performances in Kubrick films are
usually more "appropriate" than they are impressive. This film is no exception: the actors are part of Kubrick's massive tapestry.
Ryan O'Neal as Barry catches our sympathy in the first part as he moves up in the world, but he
never really becomes the villain he is intended to be. We have to depend, for the most part, on the
narrator to get any sort of feeling for his dastardly nature. The screenplay never really allows Marisa Berenson, as Lady
Lyndon, to become much more than a presence, but she is effective as that; she is the main symbol of
the genteel society which falls victim to Barry. Leonard Rossiter as the army captain which causes Barry’s first troubles, and
Patrick Magee as the Chevalier demonstrate the eccentricity implicit in Kubrick's films; their overacting may seem inconsistent with the film’s
stately mood, but, like the shifting images, they fit in Kubrick’s overall tapestry. The film is not very fast-moving, which
is one of its main strengths. Kubrick is not out to develop ideas, but rather, pictures; and, as in Barry
Lyndon, he celebrates the picture, the image. Stanley Kubrick is celebrating the film art itself.

Fated Flash Bazbo sleeps in darkness

Friday, February 20, 1976
All Day Graphics by Butler and Malone
All Day Swimming: Southern Conference Tournament
5 pm Winter Term Classes End
7 pm American Contract Bridge League Scholarship Competition
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "Walt Disney Film Festival"

Saturday, February 21, 1976
All Day Swimming: Southern Conference Tournament
5:45 pm Women’s Basketball: Furman
8 pm Basketball: Furman

Monday, February 23, 1976
8 am Winter Term Exams Begin

Tuesday, February 24, 1976
7:30 pm Coast Guard Auxiliary Boating Safety Course

Thursday, February 26, 1976
All Day Women's Basketball Tournament
5 pm Winter Term Exams End

Stowe Galleries Richmond, Va.
Morrison Room Love Auditorium Richmond, Va.
Davidson Charlotte Coliseum
Banquet Hall Perkins Auditorium Wake Forest

-Laura Moses.

By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Darkness was long in coming that fateful day. The hours did not progress, they did not move forward to the
close of day. Sitting in the shadows of the torn sails which hung there motionless, he tried every device he
could imagine to hasten the close of day. No matter how hard he tried he could not rid himself of
the feeling that one by one the mutilated corpses were fixing their stares upon him. This feeling of dread impelled
him to go below deck. In the isolation of a small cabin, he lay down and drifted off to sleep;
but this sleep was not to prove restful for within his mind formed these words: Flash Bazbo, Der Kosmic Wunderkind!

The comic page is the subject of this week’s quiz:
1. What is the name of Nancy’s aunt?
2. In Tumbleweeds, what is the full name of the mute Indian?
3. Whose company pioneered in the area of magnetic air?
4. In Our Boarding House, what is the name of the character who wore a fez?
5. What profession does Charlie Brown’s father pursue?
6. Name the Bumstead children.
7. In Li’l Abner, what animal would gladly submit to being eaten?
8. Who was the creator of Popeye?
9. What two mysterious words appear in Smoky Stover?

Vote NO to exams!
