April 23, 1976

thedavidsonian

Bridge tournament trumps success

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson bridge players have completed eight of nine sessions of the American Contract Bridge League Scholarship tournament with George Flavell
holding a slim three-point lead over Alan Rockett.

All players are dealt from 18 to 24 identical hands and all scoring is based on a 0-4 point system
for each hand. Each participant is allowed to take his six best scores but is allowed no more than four
scores with the same partner.

Tournament play is held every other Sunday night, and after the first eight sessions, Flavell has scored 376.8 points or
62.8 percent of the maximum number of points a player can accumulate.

Rockett has 373.8 points or a 62.3 percentage and could easily overtake Flavell in the final session on May 2.
Mike Russ, who has been instrumental in the tournament’s conception, is in third place with 363.6 points but will be
unable to catch Flavell who will be his partner in the final session.

According to Russ, a score of 50 percent is average and a percentage of 60 or above is very good.
A score of 50 percent is equivalent to scoring two points on each hand dealt during the session.

Approximately 20 people have been competing in the event that started during the winter term. However, Russ is somewhat disappointed
that the tournament did not receive greater student support.

“Down at the frats there is a lot of bridge playing before and after meals and I figure there’s at
least 50-100 people who could have played,” he explained.

STEVE KRUGER and Scott Reid argue over Mr. Miller’s (right) son’s lewd love letters to Mr. McCumber’s (left) daughter.

Fresh Americana plays in O’Neill’s Wilderness:

-Hunter Jennings

There is a special interest in the Davidson tournament because it is the first of its kind in the country.
Russ expects that when the tournament is completed there will be a flood of media analyzing the success of the
scholarship competition.

“Higher up bridge people and publications will be interested in our results since it was the first and only one,”
Russ noted.

“Our sponsor from Charlotte, Bill Woodson, will go to the ACBL national meeting in Salt Lake City and if we
have more tournaments will depend a great deal on how well our tournament was run.”

-Irv Wilson

WHAT AN ACE!!

Cheerleaders:

Susan Baynard
Debbie Jo Bumgarner
Freddie Clayton
Debbie Dillon
Russ Folger
Rick Kelly
Henrietta Langford

By GINNY LINDER
Staff Writer

In April 1976, when the bicentennial spirit has begun to fade, Ah, Wilderness! was a refreshing exception. With a genuine
but not overbearing American flavor, the production was fresh and new on its opening night and the audience responded to
it with enthusiasm.

The play is unusual in its own right, as Eugene O’Neill’s only comedy. But it was the personal touches, not
merely the lines, that lent the play its spirit and in their convincing setting brought New England, 1906, to life.

The play, directed by Professor of Drama Rupert T. Barber, revolves around the Miller family and concentrates on the rebellious
teenage Richard who spouts poetic phrases but learns their meaning only with experience. Brad Christie enlivened this role with his
repertoire of facial expressions.

As mother and father, Emily Pate and Scott Reid were the other major supporting actors, consistently in character as well
as in good form. Graham Smith, Steve Kruger, and the house photographer are credited with delightful comic scenes.

The set was designed by Professor of Drama Joseph Gardner, and was most impressive. The huge Victorian house not only
fit the family that inhabited it, but made the Hodson Hall stage look comfortable and huge, a major accomplishment in
itself. The home was colorful and complete, presenting the illusion of its entirety in only two rooms. The costumes blended
well to round out the picturesque setting.

The weakness of Wednesday night lay more in the script than in the performance itself. Even the brief beach and
barroom respites could not compensate for the fact that 80 percent of the play takes place within the confines of
the house. This causes an otherwise entertaining performance to drag in parts.

All in all, Ah, Wilderness! was an evening well spent. An enthusiastic student audience responded to an enthusiastic performance that
should only improve with time.

Ah, Wilderness! also features the following students: Steven Cline, Lyman Collins, Gail Maynard, Margaret Noel, Susan Baynard, Craig Lovin, Fran
Worthy, Mary Hay, Robert Nicholson, and Mark Tyndall.

The play will continue through Saturday, April 24th, with shows each night at 8:00. Tickets may be purchased at the
box office in Cunningham Fine Arts Center on Friday from 2:00-5:00 and 7:00-8:15 and on Saturday from 9:00-12:00. Prices are
$1.50 for Davidson students, and $2.50 for General Admission.

PEGGY NOEL plays soothing Aunt Lily in “Ah, Wilderness!”

1976-77

Howard Payne
Jane Perkins
Bob Schermer
Steve Sellers
Tim Sellers
Robert Taylor
Karen White
Kathy Wilson

-Hunter Jennings
