November 5, 1976

Parents’ Weekend 76

Friday, November 5, 1976
Parents are cordially invited to the Sacred Music Convocation events.

11 am Address by Davidson College Professor Wilmer Hayden Welsh: “What’s a Century or Two?” — Hodson Hall, Fine Arts Building
3 pm Capsule Courses | (Professors Case and Kelton)

Dr. Case, “Family Portrait...from the Animal Kingdom” — Dana
Dr. Kelton, “The Nature and Nurture of Intelligence” — Chambers
3:30 pm Forum moderated by Ralph Blakely, Jr., Organbuilder: “The Development of the American Organ” — Davidson College Presbyterian Church
8:15 pm Organ recital featuring the works of American composers, by John Weaver, head of the organ department at Curtis Institute, director of music at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York and conductor of the St. Andrew’s Music Society chorus and orchestra. — Davidson College Presbyterian Church. A reception honoring Mr. Weaver will be held in the church parlor immediately following the recital.
2-4 pm Parents’ appointments with faculty advisors
8:15 pm “The College Widow”, a comedy presented by the D.C. Drama Department. Parents are encouraged to see one of the performances on Saturday evening if possible, as this Friday evening performance is open to the general public.
10:30 pm Student Talent — 900 Room

Saturday, November 6, 1976
8:30 am Parents Council Breakfast and Business Meeting
10 am Conferences with faculty advisors. Life/Work Planning, Mr. Ken Wood, “Interns, Externs, and Job Placement”
10 am Soccer Preview, Coach Chip Stone. “A Guide to Soccer Strategy and Maneuvers” — Chambers
11 am Soccer: D.C. vs. Virginia, on the soccer field
11:30 am Sacred Music Convocation: Preview of a new choral work, “Mara, A Christmas Antiphon”, by Wilmer Hayden Welsh. — Davidson College Presbyterian Church, with Wilmer Hayden Welsh as organist and choirmaster.
1 pm Picnic lunch
2 pm “Why We Believe in a Liberal Arts Education!”
3 pm Capsule Courses || (Professors Johnston, Case and Kelton)

Dr. Johnston, “Scotch on the Rocks” — Chambers
Dr. Case, “Family Portrait...from the Animal Kingdom” — Dana
Dr. Kelton, “The Nature and Nurture of Intelligence” — Chambers
4:30-6:30 pm Cocktail hours in faculty homes
5:30 pm “The College Widow” — Hodson Hall
6:30-9 pm Supper — Chambers Banquet Hall
8:15 pm “The College Widow”, presented in Hodson Hall, their last performance
10:30 pm Student Talent — 900 Room

Sunday, November 7, 1976
8:30 am Alumni Breakfast, for alumni parents, their sons and daughters
10 am Capsule Courses: Eumenean Hall, Dr. Alexander McKelway, “The Role of the Christian in Politics”; Philanthropic Hall, Dr. Max Polley, “Civil Religions in America”
11 am Morning worship at the church of your choice
12:30 pm President’s luncheon — Chambers Banquet Hall

The Artist Series will host the St. Paul Chamber Orchestra Wednesday, November 10 at 8:15 pm in Love Auditorium.

In 1968, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra became the only full-time and professional chamber orchestra in the United States. It now employs seventy-five musicians drawn from orchestra backgrounds all over the country.

Under Music Director Dennis Russell Davies, who came to the orchestra in 1972, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra has attained national and international recognition as one of the best small orchestras in the world. Its audiences in the metropolitan area of Minneapolis and Saint Paul have increased dramatically.

The Chamber Orchestra’s repertoire covers some 400 years of music, including works by composers such as Bach, Telemann, and Handel, through the classical compositions of Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. Special emphasis is placed on twentieth-century composition and works by American composers, making the full repertoire cover the broad range of rarely-heard classical-to-contemporary music for full orchestra or smaller ensembles.

From part-time beginnings, the SPCO’s season has grown to forty weeks a year, with four series of concerts: Capital, Perspectives, Great Composers, and Baroque.

In each of the cities, the orchestra performs a series of concerts and provides educational services at all levels, elementary through college.

Now in its ninth season, the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra continues to offer the wide range of music and services which have made it one of the pre-eminent orchestras in the United States.