Friday, October 15, 1976

HANG IT UP!

10 am Open End with Circus People Conversation Pit
2 pm Soccer: Furman Greenville, S.C.
Student Talent Belk Quad
4:30 & 7:30 pm Stebbing Royal European Circus Village Green
8:30 pm Saloon Show 900 Room
9 pm Patterson Court Parties Patterson Court
11 pm Cartoons 900 Room

Plant panaceas prove to turn dorm into jungle

By ANN GARNER
Staff Writer

Indoor plants are the source of more agony and pain among freshmen than almost any review, for to pack off
to school with an abundance of exotic plants, only to watch them day by day wither up and die is
often more traumatic than any college “adjustment.” However, there are many plants that can survive any college experience and can
do so quite heartily.

To have a room with bright sunlight is often to your advantage. Plants do not often need direct sunlight, yet
many do require “brightness” in order to do well.

Wandering Jew and Swedish Ivy are both trailing plants and make good hanging baskets. They tend to thrive best in
cooler places and best of all, trailings from these plants can be broken off and rooted in water, making great
spur-of-the-moment gifts.

Another good hanging plant that does not require much light is the spider plant, which has a runner that not
only blossoms but also produces infant plants.

Any plant that flowers is special but usually needs an abundance of light. Virtually impossible to kill, a wax begonia
needs light in order to flower. However, it can do just as well under a lamp as in a window.

Jerusalem Cherry and Pepper Plants flower and then form small (and non-edible) cherries and peppers. Although temperamental at times, they
usually do best in lighted windows and in cooler temperatures. These are most healthy during the winter.

Even if you are not blessed with a great amount of sunshine, there are many plants that live best with
a minimum of light. Trailing Philodendron is one that can make it quite well in almost any obscure corner with
a nearby lamp.

Succulent plants can even be left over Thanksgiving and probably Christmas break without any attention.

Jade trees require little water and grow and prosper in a cool place without too much sun.

By putting an avocado seed in a jar of water, broad side down, it will root in four to six
weeks, sprout, and can be planted in another four weeks.

If not smothered with too much attention, plants can be the envy of every hallmate and the horror of every
parent, as you try to ship a veritable jungle home for the summer.

Saturday, October 16, 1976

8 am GRE Testing
9 am Bake Sale Village Green
11 am Cross Country: Wake Forest, Winston-Salem, N.C.
High Point, Ga. State
Sailing: Duke University Henderson, N.C.
4:30 pm Reception with Trustees and Dr. Spencer 900 Room
8 pm Concert: Livingston Taylor and the Mike Greene Band Love Auditorium
10:30 pm Dance: “Showcase” Banquet Hall

Sunday, October 17, 1976

2 pm Rugby: Wake Forest Davidson
6:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room

Monday, October 18, 1976

Tuesday, October 19, 1976

10 am Coffee and Cokes Morrison Room
2 pm Minority Activities Comm. Mtg. Conference Room
4:30 pm Women’s Field Hockey: Converse Spartanburg, S.C.
7 pm NC PIRG Banquet Hall

Wednesday, October 20, 1976

10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
12:30 pm CROP Hunger Relief Meal Banquet Hall
4 pm Soccer: Appalachian State Davidson
7 pm Campus-Community Worship DCPC
8 pm Fine Film: “Rashomon” Love Auditorium

Thursday, October 21, 1976

8 pm Artist Series: Ailey II Dance Company Love Auditorium

Ailey II begins Series

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

The Ailey II Dance Company, first act of this year’s Artist Series, will be performing in Love Auditorium Thursday, October
21, at 8 pm.

These young dancers, protégés of the Alvin Ailey City Center Dance Theatre (many of whom will eventually join that company),
have been performing nationwide in schools, prisons, and other settings which are too small for the larger company; recently they
appeared on a CBS television special entitled “Alvin Ailey Celebrates Duke Ellington.”

Dance magazine said of the company: “exciting, ...it whips the audience into a frenzy the way the first company does.”

The performance will be free to students with an ID.

Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly

892-0208

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

First Union National Bank

DAVIDSON
