February 6, 1976

Set two school records

Donna Sherrill takes a jump shot among a horde of frustrated Guilford players.

Colbert joins Cats; follows Tousignant

Jim Colbert has been named assistant football coach at Davidson, according to a statement released by the Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill.

Colbert, who has been head football coach at Smyrna High School in Smyrna, Delaware for the past four years, replaces Robert Tousignant, who resigned to enter private business. Colbert will serve as offensive coordinator for the Wildcat squad.

The Wing-T offense which Davidson uses has been Colbert’s specialty since he played for the University of Delaware, where he graduated in 1972.

“Jim brings a particular technical expertise which should be extremely important in the development of our offense,” said Davidson head football coach Ed Farrell. “He was an outstanding quarterback at Delaware and ran the Wing-T, our basic offense. And he has successfully coached it for the last four years.

“His playing and coaching experience will bring the fine points to our offense that are necessary to be successful. Tubby Raymond (head coach at Delaware) said that he has never had a quarterback who had a better understanding of the Wing-T,” he said.

Colbert has posted a 29-10-1 record in his four years at Smyrna, including a second-place finish in the 1975 state championship.

Tousignant has been with the Davidson squad since Farrell joined the staff two years ago. Tousignant was also an assistant under Farrell at The University of Bridgeport prior to taking the Davidson post.

“We are terribly disappointed that Bob has decided to leave coaching," said Farrell. “I have the highest regard for his knowledge of the game and his ability to coach it. The coaching profession and Davidson College are losing a truly outstanding person.”

-Pete Goodman

Catherine Morton drives downcourt in Tuesday’s triumph over Guilford.

Staff Writer

The Davidson girls’ basketball team split its last two games, winning over Guilford College 82-54 in a home game Tuesday night and losing to Anderson Junior College 47-73 in another home game January 28.

The Guilford game was the stage for at least two school records for the Lady Wildcats as they scored 82 points and Beth Tanner passed for ten assists. The Guilford game was probably the best game the Lady Wildcats have played all year. As assistant coach Ken Schmader summed it, “We finally put it all together; it was an excellent team effort.”

Donna Sherrill and Renee Soos led the scoring against Guilford, hitting 22 points apiece. Beth Tanner chipped in 18 more points to go with her ten assists.

Katherine Morton also had one of her best games as she hauled in a game-high 14 rebounds. Davidson collected 66 rebounds in all.

The halftime score was 42-34. In the first ten minutes of the second half, the Lady Cats racked up an amazing 37 points, most of it coming off of good fast breaking and tight defense. According to Schmader, it was Davidson’s height advantage which broke the game open.

“We had a height advantage which helped us on the boards and allowed us to make the outlet pass,” he said. “With the ball getting to our guards quickly it was easy for us to fast break and put on a burst of scoring.”

Despite the tough defense, two Guilford women had good games. Cyd Atkins pumped in 19 rebounds, and Wanda Robbins hit 20 points and pulled down 14 rebounds.

The Guilford trampling had to be a boost for team spirit as everyone on the team saw playing time. It also surely helped erase memories of the Anderson Junior College game five days earlier.

In dropping their game to Anderson 47-73, the Lady Cats could not feel totally embarrassed. “They were national junior college champions last year. They play very good basketball, and they have eight scholarships to recruit players with,” said Schmader.

Davidson looked like it was going to be able to stay with Anderson in the first half as the halftime score was only 22-29. The Lady Cats went cold from the floor during the second half and allowed Anderson to gain control of the tempo.

Within eight minutes into the second half, Anderson, led by Donna Forrester and Katrina Anderson, pulled out to a wide lead to put the game out of Davidson’s reach.

Beth Tanner and Donna Sherrill led scoring with 14 points each while Sherrill also pulled in eight rebounds.

The Lady Cats’ record now stands at four wins and eight losses. Upcoming games include a Thursday night home contest with Pfeiffer and N.C. State on February 11.

-Pete Goodman