4 ist cousin-to Article XII

SGA makes plans for media board
By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

The SGA Senate will soon begin taking the initial steps toward setting up a media board to oversee student media
specified in Article XI, Section 5 of the College Constitution. The board will consist of three students, two administrators, and
one faculty member; those six will then select three additional members from the college community. SGA President Bo Baskin said
that the Senate would “probably appoint some people next week” for the board.

The function of the board will be to oversee all student media, including the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, The Miscellany,
The Wildcat Handbook, and WDAV. “One of the first things the board will need to do is to draw up
standards of responsible journalism as a guideline for student media,” commented Baskin.

The media board was approved by the Trustees last May as a part of the entire College Constitution, all of
which was approved except for Article XII, the Statement of Student Rights. The idea for the board is a direct
outgrowth of Article XII. “The media board in my mind is very much a part of the Statement of Student
Rights,” added Baskin, “I think of them as first cousins.”

Dean of Students Will Terry, in explaining why the media board wasn’t included in the Statement, said, “It was the
feeling of the Trustees that anything that actually sets up a board ought to be separate from the section dealing
with student rights. It would be like including the Supreme Court in the Bill of Rights.”

According to Article XI, the board authorizes college-sponsored student media, “appoints and dismisses editors and general managers; approves the budgets
of these media; reviews their finances; promulgates and periodically reviews the standards of responsible journalism by which the media abide;
and assures media adherence to them.” The board also must be consulted on problems of libel.

Baskin said that the proposed By-Laws for the board clarify the powers of the board. The board will have appointive
powers only in concurrence with SGA By-Laws. “SGA policy is that there will be elections and the board will rubber
stamp the results,” added Baskin.

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

Last week’s Student Government Association (SGA) Senate elections were clouded by confusion and controversy. The vote was delayed twice at
the direction of temporary Election Council Chairman Ed Rees, first to allow time for more publicity and the second time
because of a possible conflict between the procedure followed and the SGA By-Laws.

The initial delay in publicizing the elections resulted from a mistake made by Rees in following the SGA time-

SGA President Bo Baskin lectures the Senate on Article XII.
-Hunter Jennings

Faculty deletes sentence
Faculty approves Article XII
Trustee decision pending
By CATHY LANDIS
Features Editor

Meeting on Tuesday, the faculty approved Article XII of the proposed College Constitution. This brought to an end the struggle
for approval that authors of the document have been waging for two years. Article XII is also called The Statement
of Student Rights and Responsibilities. The draft presented to the faculty this week was the 13th draft of the document.

The 12th draft of Article XII was rejected by the faculty last spring because it contained what was described as
“contentious language.” A subcommittee altered the wording and presented the revised document to the faculty in September. The faculty sustained
a motion to delete one sentence from the revised document. The sentence was part of section six, dealing with student
publications. The deleted sentence read: “Student, faculty, administrative, or public disapproval of content or editorial policy may not be the
sole grounds for removal.” After passing the motion to delete this sentence, the faculty unanimously approved Article XII.Some members of
the faculty believed that the document would have passed, though not unanimously, without the deletion of the sentence. According to
SGA President Bo Baskin, the deletion of the sentence means that the cause for dismissing an editor could be disapproval
of his publication’s content or editorial policy. But he feels that “such a move would be blatant censorship. I can’t
imagine a board ever doing that,” said Baskin. With the faculty’s approval, Article XII will now be subject to a
student referendum. If approved by the students, Article XII will come before the Board of Trustees on Friday, October 15.
Approval there will pass the Constitution into effect. The trustees are expected to accept the document.

Rees felt he needed extra time to rectify his mistake and informed SGA President Bo Baskin of his intention to
do so. Baskin characterized his initial response as “Don’t do that,” but left the final decision to Rees. Rees explained,
“My authority specifically states that I can change dates and I did not overstep my authority. Everything I've done was
with Bo Baskin’s okay.” Warren Soule, who was responsible for counting the vote for the SGA, feels that Rees’ action
broke the spirit of the By-Laws. He stated, “The jurisdiction of the Election Council is to enforce the By-Laws, not
circumvent them.” A second delay arose when it was discovered on election day that a candidate’s name did not appear
on the off-campus ballot and that Rick Rauck, who was also running for an off-campus position, was living on campus.
Baskin explained why Carol Connor’s name was not included by saying, “Apparently publicity was bad and a few who missed
the deadline for filing were included by Ed because they hadn’t received adequate notice. Carol talked to me about running
and it wasn't Ed’s fault at all that he didn’t know she was interested.” Commenting on Soule’s charge of circumventing
the By-Laws, Baskin responded, “If we did break the law the real problem is that we miss what our aim
is. The purpose is to get people to run, not shut them out.”

An editorial Article XII softened by compromise

History was made this week. The Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities was passed by the faculty, freeing the document
to be approved by students and passed into effect by the Board of Trustees. The temptation is to be facetious,
to revel in overstatement of what has happened. The truth, as we see it, is that nothing significant has happened.
But read on and take comfort in the fact that the opportunity to make a difference has now fallen back
to the student body where it began. The thirteenth draft of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities was approved
this week after the deletion of an important sentence concerning student publications. Does that make the document accepted this week
the fourteenth draft? Maybe so, but the point is that the document originally drawn up as a statement of the
way students understood themselves as members of the Davidson academic community has now been [see STATEMENT, page 4]

He indicated that he expected little change in the electoral process of selecting new editors and general managers for the
student media. “I expect the next election will be run very similar to those in the past,” he said. As
to the make-up of the board, Baskin said that the selection of the student members would be chosen in accordance
with SGA By-Laws, which have yet to be determined. “It was my initial feeling that no present editors should [see
MEDIA, page 3]

The Davidsonian October 8, 1976

SGA election clouded by confusion and controversy
