March 19, 1976

the davidsonian

By THE THREE FAIRIES

23-0. The Boogiers’ named coaches

IMAC Czar Andrews’ work praised

The two-year reign of IMAC Czar Bowie Andrews came to an end last week. Trustee and alumni pressure are thought to have driven Bowie from office.

The Czar’s last official act was to resolve the threatened softball strike, assuring that the season would start on schedule. After careful screening of many big-name applicants, it was announced that Pete “Jeff” Rozelle had taken the job for a salary estimated at nothing.

In the last serious line you are apt to read in this column, it must be said that Bowie did a hell of a job.

Last week marked the beginning of another season of IMAC softballing drunkenness and debauchery.

So early in the season, it became apparent that all the guys with the big sticks would keep popping up in their frustrated efforts to go for the long ball, while the Woman’s League would traditionally tend towards tight defensive struggles.

However, on opening day the first girl’s game was not quite true to form as the Little Boogiers laid into IKL.

Corrections

The February 20 edition of the Davidsonian incorrectly reported on the rugby club’s first match of the season.

The game was not a practice match as listed and was played in Charlotte, not Raleigh as we erroneously reported.

Jim “Bricklayer” Rice and John “Machine Gun” Gerdy planned to throw out the first ball, but only managed to throw the first drunk, both striking out swinging.

The initials IKL remain something of a mystery, although Mun Dane does have a theory: “Ahem, this is my theory which is mine: I is for It’s, K is for Kinda, and L is for Large.” To which the Amoeba replied, “Glorp?!”

In the more pedestrian male confrontations, the Whizy Kids smoked Emanon, 24-5, led by hustling Tex Collins. This weak-bladdered outfit could be a major power if someone could toilet train Ro Ro.

Despite Mike Gibson, the Wooley Grays managed to crush the Aintry Squealers by 27-11. Another senior-dominated squad, Ockham’s Razor disgraced its class and epitomized ineptitude by losing to lowly Richardson I, 6-3.

Later in the week, jockish Henderson House ate the Pickles whole by the whopping score of 24-4. The thrashing reportedly caused the poor Pickles to awake in the night with cravings for bats and balls.

In the closest game of the day, Juneau Joe’s Alaskan Huskies overcame the burden of their name to edge the Longest Yard, starring Burt Reynolds and his Favorite Play, 11-10.

On Monday, Davidson IMAC history was made as SPE #2 actually forfeited a game to the dancing Rowdy Rotcies (only $10, get yours from Bruce West), in this case proving obnoxious in defeat.

A major upset was averted as

LITTLE BOOGIER Marty Hunt grits her teeth against the IKL pitcher during the opening game of IMAC girls’ softball. The Little Boogiers smashed IKL 23-0.

Passive Indifference rallied to nip upstart Cannon IV, 13-12. The near defeat was blamed on John Tatum, who neglected to bring the Busch.

In this week’s highlight game, the Clap, led by reinstated spirochete Pimp Blanchard, infected the SAE’s 9-8. The Clap’s brilliant base-running became an obvious sore spot for the unwary E’s.

For future Clap opponents and close friends of the E’s, penicillin will be available in the IMAC office.

About half the teams have not yet

Men’s Tennis

20 Dartmouth

22 East Stroudsburg

23 Amherst

26 Ohio University

Women’s Tennis

Upcoming sports

Baseball

20 East Carolina

22 Fairfield

23 Fairfield

24 Appalachian

Golf

25-26-27 Furman Invitational

Rugby

20 Charlotte

Sailing

20 Univ. of Va.

23(JV) Charlotte Latin

25 Wake Forest

Track

20 Lynchburg College

23 Wake Forest, High Point

COACHES GERDY AND RICE instruct their heroes in the finer points of softball and Michelob.

gone into action, including the defending champion New Orleans Taints, whose franchise has been moved to the Superdome from beautiful Cleveland.

The Taints, however, are already torn by dissension as first baseman Tom Verlin has been suspended from the roster until he gets down to his playing weight of 93 pounds.

We still have no replies in our contest as to the identity of David Kirkman. The trip to scenic Elmhurst, Illinois remains unclaimed.

photos by Pete Goodman