October 22, 1976

Letters

Carter remains popular in Georgia

To the Editor:

I don’t desire to precipitate an argument over whether Ford or Carter should be elected as our next President, but
I do feel compelled to provide a rebuttal to the distortions Bill Peeples presented in an article entitled “Georgian Doubts
Carter's Intentions,” which appeared in the October 15 issue of The Davidsonian. I would hope that our school’s paper would
avoid overt bias and—even an editorial should have some similarity to the truth.

Essentially, Mr. Peeples made the following contentions in his article:
1) “If Carter had been eligible for reelection for Governor in 1974, few Georgians would have voted for him.”
2) Carter’s reorganization of the state government is “an embarrassing failure.”
3) Carter’s other accomplishments were only continuations of policies initiated by preceding governors.

As a native Georgian, I wish to briefly address each of the inaccuracies.

1. Carter’s popularity in Georgia was demonstrated convincingly when he received an overwhelming 86 percent of the vote in the
state’s Presidential primary. (Greater than the home-state vote received by any other Presidential candidate this year.) Apparently, only 14 percent
of the state’s voters displayed dissatisfaction with their former governor; and much of this was simply a preference for another
Georgian favorite who campaigned heavily in the state—George Wallace. This affectionate approval of Carter is not just the product of
his national recognition as a Presidential candidate. The most objective and authoritative source I could find, The Almanac of American
Politics—1976, reported that “Carter was highly popular going into the 1974 elections, and could easily have won a second term.”
My experience is that the bulk of criticism in Georgia of Carter (with the exception of Republicans, who are natural
opponents) originates from those people who resented his successful efforts in appointing blacks and women to high government positions, preserving
the natural environment, upgrading education, and other “dangerously radical” reforms.

2. When Jimmy Carter became Governor in 1970, the state government was, as confirmed in the September 18, 1976, issue
of Newsweek, a bureaucratic nightmare. Carter reduced the number of state agencies, departments, and commissions from 300 to 22, not
only saving the state enormously in administrative expenditures (the administrative portion of the state budget was actually slashed in half!)
but significantly improving government efficiency and service. Mr. Peeples contends that this reorganization was unsuccessful, presenting as evidence the fact
that when Carter left office the overall budget had increased. But if we examine this situation realistically, we find that
this increase is a result of the increasing demand in welfare services and Carter’s expansion in the state’s prison, mental-treatment,
and educational systems.

By LINDA BROCKS TALBOTT
Staff Writer

Jimmy Carter’s criticisms of President Ford have developed a strong and more forceful tone. But in his eagerness to show
up President Ford, he may have stepped too far. Rather than point out Ford’s shortcomings himself, Carter should leave that
up to the newspapers. Carter, who has now taken a tougher stand on defense spending, stated that Ford’s citation of
a remark concerning a cut in defense spending he (Jimmy Carter) made during the Democratic race was “untrue.” Two newspapers
have direct quotes from Carter that he did suggest cutting defense spending by $15 billion. Carter then claimed that Ford
was a Marxist when Ford remarked that the 1968 unemployment figure of 4 percent occurred in a wartime economy. By
linking Marxism to Ford, Carter hopes to show that Ford is implying a Capitalist economy flourishes only in a wartime
atmosphere.

The most recent criticism of Ford is that he was brain-washed during his trip to Poland. Carter bases this claim
on Ford’s recent statement that Eastern Europe is not under Soviet domination. Although this is a definite slip on Ford’s
part, attributing it to brain-washing is stretching it a bit. Ford, who had moved up in the polls, is now
plagued by recent mistakes. Besides the Eastern European issue, he has had to deal with Secretary Butz's recent “faux pas”
as well as the investigations into his bank account. Mr. Carter would do well to let these problems speak for
themselves. But Carter is hell-bent on using them to ridicule the incumbent President. The knife may twist the other way.
Carter himself may have realized this when he stated in an interview with the Washington Post during the Democratic Convention
that he would employ partisan appeals “as little as possible” because partisanship“...is not an obsession with me.” Indeed, if you
compare Georgia's increase in government expenditures with other states, the Federal government’s, or even the preceding term of Governor Maddox,
the rate of increase under Carter is significantly lower.

3. The most erroneous contortion in the article was the statement that Carter’s predecessor in the Governor’s office, Lester Maddox,
“...originally set the other major Carter programs in motion...conservation measures, school desegregation, and other policies.” Much to the contrary, Maddox
violently opposed all actions for conserving the environment, proposing instead that the scenic Flint River be dammed. And you don’t
have to be from Georgia to know that Maddox contributed very little in the institution and maintenance of school desegregation
and good race relations. Jimmy Carter's record as Governor is one of notable achievement and beneficial improvement in the state
government. While this assertion may not be appreciated on a predominantly pro-Ford campus, I hope that our “enlightened” generation can
at least recognize the importance of treating both sides of an issue with fairness.

Chuck Gaddy '80
Davidson College

Cooper raps ‘Disco’

To the Editor:

I would like to “second” Richard Boyce's October 15 editorial. While I can’t agree word for word with that analysis
of Davidson's “Disco” situation, I, too, sense an inherent boredom in disco and wonder whether I may be mellowing too
quickly. I suspect, however, that disco constitutes more of a cultural gap than of a generation gap, and if this
be so, perhaps the tastes of some less disco-oriented groups should be considered by the Union’s programming. If the reactions
of people I have met are any kind of suitable sample, a disco-format without the disco “tunes” could attract many.
Maybe the time for a “beach”, rock, or other disco that would allow a little creativity on the dance floor
has not yet arrived (or has already passed), but I feel better having voiced my objections to the dreary disco
beat and to the accompanying unoriginal and uninspiring “steps”.

Brian Cooper '78
Davidson College

CROP fights hunger

To the Editor:

I think many people at Davidson have hopes for co-operation between nations and brotherhood that does not end at the
boundaries of a home, community, religion, or political system. CROP is one program available to us here through which we
can begin to actualize these values. The type of famine relief which CROP sets up is future-oriented—teachers, family planning clinics,
seeds, tools, and wages for building roads and irrigation systems. Since most CROP teachers and helpers work without pay and
since CROP is run with a minimum of bureaucracy, approximately eighty percent of the funds raised go towards actual materials
for farming and building. Ten percent more goes into educational programs. CROP is working but could use a lot more
support from Davidson people. Every Tuesday (12:30-1:30) we have a “share-it-with-your neighbor” meal in Chambers Banquet Hall. The price is
modest but your few cents go a long way—say, it could buy enough seed to sow several acres. In November
and April we will be fasting for a day as a symbolic gesture to raise money for CROP. For over
a billion people fasting is a way of life; 20 to 25 percent of their children die before their fifth
birthdays. And millions who do not die lead impeded lives because their brains have been damaged, their bodies stunted, and
their vitality sapped by nutritional deficiencies (statistics from W.W. Rankin). Organizations like CROP do make a difference, but need your
help. Please support our programs with your presence and contributions.

Joyce Stahmann '77
Davidson College

...proposal not in final form

[Continued from page 1]

When contacted, planning commission members Avinger and Walker, both professors at Davidson, indicated that they believed the continued-use label would
apply to the perimeter houses. Burts, in contrast, advocated classifying the houses as “non-conforming uses”, subject to evaluation in five
years. Professor Lester declined to comment, and commission chairman William I. Ward, attorney and Davidson resident, could not be reached
for his opinion. The proposal is not yet in its final form. Another hearing will be held October 28, and
the council will vote soon after that. “We on the planning commission believe it is essential that all community members
have the opportunity to express their opinions on the zoning proposal,” concluded Burts.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
