January 23, 1976

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRESHMAN TOM JORGENSON
Pete Goodman scrambles through a forest of Richmond players on his way to the basket.

Cagers fall to Citadel
Rixey hits career high
By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats dropped their fourth Southern Conference game in five outings last night to The Citadel 81-77 at Charleston.
The Bulldogs were led by Chris Davis who came off the bench to score 22 points, 20 of which came
in the first half when he was 10 for 12 from the floor. Richard Johnson, The Citadel’s 6’8” center, added
21. John Gerdy was the game’s leading scorer with 24, while Eppa Rixey had a career-high 23 points. The Citadel’s
victory was their first basketball win over the Wildcats in 14 years.

In another Southern Conference battle, the Richmond Spiders reeled off 12 points early in the second half and then weathered
a furious Davidson rally to edge the Wildcats 72-69 in a regionally-televised game last Saturday. The first half was the
close struggle that had been expected, as both teams were hoping to improve on their conference records and strengthen their
positions.

Cat Grapplers place last in quad meet
By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team’s record fell below the .500 plateau last Saturday as the Grapplers placed last in a quadrangular
meet held in Johnston Gym. The team’s record is now 1-4. Competition was dominated by The Citadel: the Bulldogs were
3-0 for the day. VMI came away with a 2-1 record, and Elon went home with a 1-2 record. Davidson
was last with a 0-3 mark.

Elon 36 Davidson 15
Only three Davidson wrestlers gained victories in the match.

Washburn sets record
Tankers drop two
By BRUCE HOLLADAY
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson’s swimming team suffered consecutive losses last weekend to VMI and Washington and Lee, dropping their season record to 2-2.
VMI handled Davidson easily, 62-32, as they placed first in ten of the thirteen events. Jonathon Washburn picked up first
place in the 200-yard breaststroke for Davidson and set a new school record in winning the 200-yard backstroke. Washburn also
finished second in the 200-yard intermediate medley with a time of 2:08.1, breaking the old Davidson record by three seconds.
Marshall Brown placed first in the 200-yard fly to capture the only other Davidson victory while Mike Knowles added second-place
finishes in both the 500 and 1000-yard freestyle events.

Despite the loss, Coach Pat Drake was generally pleased with the team members' individual efforts. “Our competitive times were not
bad and a lot of our swimmers improved even though they didn’t win,” she noted.

Against Washington and Lee, the nine-man Davidson squad was once again outgunned and lost 51-42. Washburn again led the team
with two victories while Knowles, Brown, Jim Wood, and Steve Barkley combined to win the 400-yard free medley. “The performance
against Washington and Lee was not as good as the day before. Back-to-back competition is rough on the kids and
you don’t usually get records on the second day,” said Drake.

VMI was the first competition for Davidson since mid-December and Drake felt that the break in regular practice was reflected
in the team’s overall performance. “The break hurt us but I planned on that and scheduled our tough meets in
January. This gives us a chance to get our times down before February when we swim in the conference championships.”our
more competitive meets."

First match of the day: Glenn Ballard won his 134-pound bout by decision, and Mark Scandling and Jack Summe both
pinned their opponents.

Citadel 40, Davidson 9
Last year, the Wildcats could not manage to win a single match against the Bulldogs, but this year Scott Phillips
kept Davidson from being shut out. Phillips defeated his opponent 7-4 to secure the Cats’ sole win. Jack Summe picked
up a forfeit in the unlimited bout to account for the other Davidson points.

VMI 30, Davidson 9
The Grapplers saved their best performance for the final match of the day. Coach Rader felt “the team wrestled well
against VMI, and with a little more luck, they could have easily won the match.” Ted Mumby picked up a
forfeit in the 118-pound class to put the Cats ahead 6-0. The next three matches were crucial toss-ups, and the
Wildcats lost all of them. Brian Jacobs, Glenn Ballard, and Pat Dulany all lost close decisions, which put the Cats
behind 9-6. Mark Scandling tied the team score at 9-9, with a 3-1 decision over his opponent in the 150-pound
class. Kevin “Cleets” Clancy, filling in at 158, was defeated, and for the third time of the day Ralph Holloway
suffered a close defeat. Scott Phillips drew the Cats closer by pinning his opponent, but the Cats lost the final
bouts of the day, as both Mike Smith and Jack Summe lost to men who placed in the Southern Conference
Tournament last year.

The team travels to Charleston, S.C., this weekend to participate in the annual Bulldog Open. Coach Rader is expecting to
have several wrestlers place in four of their respective weight classes, strengthening their bids to finish in the upper division.

The score was tied seven times and the lead switched hands five other times; neither team could manage more than
a six-point bulge. The Davidson effort was hampered severely by 19 turnovers in the first twenty minutes. The Spiders came
out roaring as the final period began, and it looked as if the Richmond five was going to run off
and leave the Wildcats far behind. The Spiders outscored Davidson 18-4 in the first 5:09 behind Larry Slappy’s quick eight
points on three jumpers and one tip-in to build a 54-34 advantage.

It was at this point that Davidson started its comeback effort. After trading baskets and slicing the Richmond lead by
five over the next five minutes, the Wildcats reeled off nine unanswered points behind the shooting of John Gerdy and
Tom Verlin to narrow the gap to two with 6:03 left. Unfortunately for Davidson, that was as close as they
were to get, as Richmond edged back out to an eight-point lead and then used a four-corners offense to hold
on to a win. Jay Powell’s shot at the buzzer set the final score at 72-69. John Gerdy was the
top Davidson scorer with 16. Eppa Rixey, with 14 points, was the only other Wildcat to score in double figures.

CONTRACEPTION COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841 - Cornelius, N.C.

Send a fax, send a flower to that special someone:
Valentine's Day
Birthdays
Anniversaries
Hospital
Any occasion

The whole town is buzzing about the designs from THE FLOWER HIVE at 892-7800.
