December 17, 1976

The Davidsonian

Landlord Sadler Disgusts Tenants

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Assistant News Editor

Some Davidson students renting off-campus houses from town businessman Wilson Sadler complain that the landlord ignores or reacts slowly to their complaints and grievances.

“I don’t want to paint Wilson up to be a demon—he isn’t an evil man—but he is chronically slow in answering complaints about things that go wrong in his houses,” said Mark Armstrong.

Sadler declines comment.

Armstrong, a senior, lives with a group of students in a Sadler house on Potts Street. He has rented from Sadler for three years and can recount many of his and other renters’ problems.

“One time our commode broke down, and for three straight days we went by Wilson’s office asking him to fix it. By the time he got around to it, the house smelled so bad you could hardly walk in the door.

“For a while there was a hole in the roof so big that we collected ice chests full of water that leaked in during a hard rain. Wilson eventually repaired the hole.”

Bob Grizzard, another senior who shares the Potts St. house, tells this story: “The back door on the house wasn't too sturdy, and we asked Wilson in September 1975 to put on a storm door for added protection against a break-in. He stalled all through the winter, told us something about the storm door warping if he put it on, and when the school year ended nothing had been done.

“Before I left for vacation, I told him, ‘Wilson, I’ll pay for the door if you’ll put it on.’ When I came back this fall—no door.

“I asked him why he hadn't done anything about it over the summer, and he told me that he just wanted to be sure that I’d pay for the door before he put it up,” continued Grizzard.

Speaks from experience

“He delayed further, and one day someone broke in the house and stole my bicycle.”

“Later that week Wilson said that he was ready to put up the door. I said, ‘Forget it, bud, you’re too late.’

“It took us two years to get storm windows put up, and now our oven door doesn’t work right—who knows when that will be fixed?” said Grizzard.

A girl who rents with three others from Sadler said, “We used to have two bathrooms in the house, but Wilson’s workmen came in the other day and took one of them out. He put in a vanity-type thing instead—it’s pretty nice, but we'd really rather have two bathrooms. And he didn’t tell us anything about taking it out in the first place.

See related editorial, page 4

“There’s something wrong with our furnace,” she added. “In six weeks, it used around 400 gallons of oil.

“I talked with someone else who has a house about the size of ours, and he said he used about 100 gallons of heating oil in six weeks.

“We figured that we were spending almost five dollars a day to heat the house. And the sad thing is, even with all that oil, we couldn’t keep the house really comfortable,” she said.

“I asked Wilson if five dollars a day wasn’t a lot to heat the house, and he said that it didn’t seem like a whole lot.

“Only one person can unlock our front door—Wilson Sadler. It’s warped or something, and none of us have ever been able to unlock the thing from the outside.

“Wilson came by one day, worked with the key in the door for about 15 minutes, and finally opened it, but I have no idea how he did it.”

Bicycle stolen

Rick Rauck and Ron Cannon arranged last spring to rent a house that Sadler was remodeling.

“We came back in September to find the house was nowhere near finished,” said Rauck. “We went by his office every day for a few weeks to check on how the house was going. After a while we got tired of the hassle and dropped by two or three times a week to remind Wilson that we were still around.”

Sadler finally finished the house at the end of October. Rauck and Cannon moved in November 1, two months behind schedule.

“We don’t have any complaints now—Wilson did a great job.”job fixing the house—but it was a lot of trouble arranging alternate living plans with Scotty for two months and moving our belongings around three or four times.” Another complained that for two student Media Board members.

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Staff Writer

A special committee of the SGA has drawn up a process for selecting the SGA’s two remaining choices to serve on Davidson’s first Media Board. The SGA is allotted three members on the nine-man board, including one person from the media, with Matthew Covington, outgoing Davidsonian editor, having been previously chosen for that position.

The Screening Committee, devised by Hans Watford and Percy Badham, will soon begin gathering a list of nominations from the media, faculty, and administration, and will call upon any interested students who feel they are qualified to fill out an application for the office. The committee will hold interviews to judge the students’ knowledge of the media, and determine how they stand on the issues of censorship, freedom of the press, and responsible journalism. The two students who are chosen will work with Covington, as well as with the two members selected by the administration, the one picked by the faculty, and the three remaining members who will be chosen by those six.

The Media Board, formulated under Article X of the Constitution, will have absolute power over the college media: The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, Miscellany, WDAV, and the Wildcat Handbook. Its controls will include the power to appoint and remove editors, the power of censorship, as well as financial control.

Jeff Sich, Chairman of the Media Board Screening Committee, is wary of the fact that most students do not realize the implications of this centralized control. “I think one of the things that the members of the Screening Committee are really concerned about is that there won’t be enough interest in the Media Board,” he said. “Besides screening candidates, I think that we see one of our functions as to stimulate students’ interest in the Media Board and their awareness of how important the Media Board will be to continued success and growth of the Davidson media.

“Two years ago, when the talk about the Media Board began, I really felt threatened, and I still feel that every student here at Davidson should be concerned about the restrictions and the limitations that may be imposed upon the media, even to the point of volunteering to serve on the Media Board,” he added.

“It’s going to be the function of the first Media Board to devise standards of responsible journalism, and we hope that a student who’s interested in serving on the Media Board will have at least thought all this through and will have come to some conclusions concerning what he feels is responsible journalism,” he explained.

The Screening Committee has set a deadline of January 14 for applications to be turned in. The final recommendations will be made to the SGA on January 25.

Some time his house was without a workable shower. A number said Sadler had never given them a copy of their lease. All of the tenants interviewed said that Sadler’s rental rates and payment policies were reasonable. “Rent is due at the first of each month, and we have a ten-day grace period. He’s never pressured us at all,” said Armstrong. “Maybe he figures that since he’s so easygoing in collecting the rent he can correspondingly drag his feet when things need to be repaired,” he suggested.

House unfinished

The Davidsonian attempted to interview Sadler on five separate occasions during a span of two weeks. Each time Sadler was unavailable or too busy to answer questions. He made one brief comment: “If any of my tenants have any complaints, I wish they’d come talk to me.” When informed that many of his tenants claimed they had come to him with their problems, but had found little satisfaction of their grievances, Sadler said, “I don’t want to say anything in a public forum.”

SICH PIZZA - LASAGNE - RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
STEAKS and CHOICE WINES and BEERS
PIZZA - TAKE OUT SERVICE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
other dishes & BEERS
GAY 90S ATMOSPHERE
596-0256
WY 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD