September 24, 1976

the davidsonian

MARGIE ROBERTSON and Martha

Lev Wilson

MacGil vie for control during field

hockey practice.

Colgate aerials deflate Wildcat hopes

By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

Colgate’s Red Raiders invaded Richardson Field Saturday and handed the Wildcats a 17-7 opening game loss.

The first quarter proved to be the difference as Colgate rolled up a 10-0 lead.

Davidson had been unable to capitalize on two fumbles by the visitors when Pete Legler’s second punt attempt was blocked. The Cats’ defense held fast but Jerry Andrewlavage found the range with a 44-yard field goal to make it 3-0.

The next time Colgate got the ball a 58-yard scoring drive increased their lead to ten points.

In the second quarter Davidson’s offense managed its initial first down when Legler scooped an errant snap at his own five and advanced thirty yards back for an overall gain of one.

This effort avoided a probable Colgate score that could have put the game out of range.

After a scoreless second quarter, the Wildcats got another break when Mike Peskosky forced a fumble at Colgate’s twelve-yard line. The offense took it in on freshman Craig Pyles’ seven-yard run on a counter play.

Chuck Bohertz converted and suddenly it was a 10-7 ball game.

However, Colgate came back to control the second half offensively, eventually driving 70 yards to score and put the contest out of reach. The Davidson offense continued its inability to sustain a drive and it was Colgate’s ball game.

Coach Ed Farrell expressed optimism after having viewed the films. Although the pass defense was pierced 12 of 15 times for 165 yards, the overall defense was much improved over last year.

“We’re staying with our coverage. We always seemed to be just one step from being there,” he said.

He cited Jim Nichols and Paul Andrews for consistent efforts on defense.

“Statistically, Larry Crees had a good game at tight end on offense,” said Farrell.

The offensive line also drew praise, allowing just four quarterback sacks, a decided improvement over last year.

The Cats take on a strong Bucknell team at home Saturday. Armed with a potent passing attack, they should put pressure on Davidson’s secondary.

Coach adds three recruits, strengthens Netter’s depth

By DOUG SCHUESSLER
Staff Writer

After a disappointing 5-21 season last year under former head coach Robert “Bo” Brickels, the future of Davidson basketball is looking up.

Led by new head coach Dave Pritchett, the Wildcats seem to have strengthened many important aspects of their game.

Although hurt by a late start in recruiting, Pritchett still managed to come up with three fine players: Earnie Reigel (from Michigan), Tim Bowker (New Jersey), and Rod Owens (New York). They should all add considerably to the team’s overall strength. Reigel will provide help bringing the ball upcourt, while Owens will be expected to add some muscle under the boards. Bowker should contribute additional board strength, while also giving the team extra mobility.

This year’s squad will be a young one, with only three juniors or seniors. However, Pritchett does not look upon the 1976-77 year as a building one.

“There is no doubt in my mind. We are going to win at Davidson,” he said.

Pritchett plans to work for the “percentage shot,” while utilizing the Wildcats’ rebounding strength and ball control. He also plans to “run with control.”

“My job is to make them the best basketball players humanly possible and to get the maximum from their talent,” said Pritchett.

Pritchett has previously coached at state colleges, Boston College, where he was instrumental in turning their basketball program around, and the University of Maryland, where he was a top assistant to Lefty Driesell.

Cat tennis squad selected

By CAROLYN WATT
Staff Writer

Fall tennis tryouts were held over the past two weeks with an unusually large number of freshmen vying for six positions on the team. Of the 38 men trying out, 27 were freshmen.

Coach Jeff Frank noted that “The calibre of the freshmen trying out was very high.” With the help of the freshmen, this year’s team will have more depth than usual.

Returning this fall as lettermen of 1976’s Varsity Tennis Team are juniors Mike Barnhill, Stewart Boswell, and Brian Cooper, and sophomores Gil Kayton, John Trout, and Andy White. Junior Brian Berry is a member of the team by Junior College transfer. The freshmen chosen were Taylor Bryant, Jay Flair, Harry Griffith, Jim Haynes, Rick Johnston, Jeff Lyle, Bob Sutton, and Allard Castelein. These men were chosen on the basis of their play in the try-out tournament arranged by Frank.

This will be Davidson's last year to compete for the Southern Conference Tennis Title, for the school is withdrawing from the Conference. Ironically, the Championships will be played here at Davidson.

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Drop in and browse

Use Your Master Charge, Bankamericard

Use Your Automatic Charge Account at

Only 6 miles North - Mooresville