the davidsonian
February 6, 1976

Swimmers trounce Bulldogs 56-39
By DAVE KELLER
Sports Editor

The Wildcat swim team trounced the Citadel Bulldogs 56-39 in a home meet yesterday and boosted their season record to 3-6. Swimming coach Pat Drake, who was very pleased with the meet, said, “We had so many first places, and everyone had really good times. I had thought that it was going to be a very close meet.”

Two records were broken in the contest, and a number of Davidson swimmers bettered personal bests. Sophomore Mike Knowles had two first places, in the 1000 and 500 yard Freestyle events, and swam on the winning freestyle relay team. John Frederick, who was also on that winning relay team, swam to a first place in the 200 Freestyle race and broke his personal record.

One of the busier swimmers of the contest, Marshall Brown won first place in the 200 yard Butterfly and second in both the 1000 and 500 yard Freestyle events to set three personal best times. Skip Barkley also broke personal bests while taking first in the 200 yard Backstroke and 2nd in the 200 yard Individual Medley.

Although he only took second place in the event, Jonathan Washburn set a new school record in the 200 yard Breaststroke at 2:22.3; the Citadel’s Miler won that event and set a new pool record at 2:20.8. Washburn also took first in the Individual Medley.

The Bulldogs, a young team with lots of depth, are having to reorganize this year after a two-year layoff for Citadel competitive swimming. The Wildcats lost their last two events, getting crushed by Furman’s all-scholarship team on Friday and barely losing to Georgia Tech on Saturday.

Coach Drake, commenting on some of this year’s opponents, said, “Next year I hope to get a more competitive schedule. This year we had five fairly easy meets and seven really tough ones; next season I hope I can reverse that situation.” She added that “Southern Conference swimming is good and getting better. We want to stay competitive in the S.C. but we’re also going to branch out.”

Upcoming sports

Women’s Basketball
February
8 At Pfeiffer (5:30)
9 N.C. State (5:45)
18 At Wake Forest (5:55)
21 Furman (5:45)

Wrestling
February
13 At Washington & Lee (7:30)
14 At Hampden-Sydney
19 College of Charleston (7:00)
27-28 Southern Conference Meet at Charleston, S.C.

Swimming
February
4 Citadel
6 At Augusta
10 At Appalachian
13 Emory

Goodman: “MINE . . . AND YOU CAN'T HAVE IT.”
Charlotte cop greedily grasps his red seat ball courtesy of McDonald's and the Davidson cheerleaders.

Tom Miller (foreground) reloads on the firing line while other shooters fire away.

Rifle team shows potential for success and expansion
By WAYNE CROSS
Staff Writer

Although one of the more obscure teams on campus, the Davidson rifle team is the college’s only truly coed team and probably has morepotential for success than any other in Davidson athletics. So far this year, the rifle team has competed in three matches, winning the first against North Carolina A. & T. by a score of 1137-1106 and then dropping the next two to William and Mary and the Citadel, 2470-2578 and 1366-1190, respectively. “William and Mary, Citadel, and VMI are our toughest opponents,” said team coach Captain Jerry Flannigan. “They have a bigger budget than ours, and more experienced personnel.” Captain Flannigan also pointed out that all 2000 plus cadets at the Citadel are required to try out for the rifle team, giving the Bulldogs the cream of the crop for their team.

Captain Flannigan said that he purposely scheduled three away matches first because contests on the road are the hardest to compete in. “This way we eliminate the away matches and, in the bargain, gain experience which should help us at home,” he said. Ben Simms, Tom Miller, and Pete Goodman serve as the backbone for this year’s team, but Captain Flannigan allowed that coed Katherine Whitney was the most improved shooter on the team. When asked about having a girl on the team, Flannigan readily admitted that Katherine required special accommodations when on the road, which usually works out quite well. In fact, when the rifle team was at the Citadel, she got to stay in a room in the guest house between a visiting ambassador and a two-star general. Katherine is not the only girl on a rifle team in our area, but as yet she has not competed against any other girls.

The scoring system for a rifle match is somewhat complicated: each person on the team shoots at a twelve-bull’s-eye target in each of the three positions—prone, sitting, and standing. A shooter gets two practice shots and ten scoring shots per target; this is the twelve-bull target. With ten points per bull and ten scoring bulls per target, the shooter can score a maximum of 100 points per target or 300 points per match. The team score consists of the combined five top scores by the team, a maximum of 1500 points. This is the scoring for a “quarter round match.”

Captain Flannigan says that there is an opening for one more shooter on the team, as he would like to bring the team up to ten members. This Saturday, the rifle team travels to South Carolina State in Orangeburg. Following that is a make-up match in the Western Carolina Conference Tournament, and matches at Furman, ECU, North Carolina A. & T., the Citadel, and maybe VMI. Captain Flannigan is very optimistic about the team’s potential. “The team is very much improved, and I’m looking forward to the last half of the season. The way we’ve been shooting, I think we’re going to beat some people who are not expecting to be beaten.”