February 6, 1976  
By RICHARD BOYCE  
Editorial Page Editor  

“Some studied merely to acquire knowledge, which is curiosity; others to acquire fame, which is vanity; others still for the sake of gain. Very few studied for their own edification, or that of others.”  
-Fourteenth-century French cleric  

“College,” his father had said, “is essentially four years in which to grow up.” High school had been relatively easy. But, not as easy as it could have been. “Yes, you'll need that fourth year of French and you'd better crowd in a little calculus.” SATs. Admission forms. Interviews. But, thank goodness, all for good cause. He could picture energetic, omniscient professors; eager, altruistic, highly intelligent students; loudly bizarre weekend parties.  

Freshman year. At first, he had drowned himself in frantic activity. He was, in a word, in. But, later, as things slowed, overlooked items rose to the surface. Indifference, slack instruction, unfulfilled needs, and irrelevant courses. All that work for this? Romantic illusions were fading. Yet, perhaps, success.  

“Hello?”  
“Hello, Mom and Dad, guess what? I did it!”  
“My God. Did what?”  
“A 4.0. I pulled a 4.0 this term!”  
“Oh congratulations. That’s good. But, how’s the hall going? What’ve you been doing on the weekends? Getting along with the roommate? Any excursions? Have you gotten down to see the grandparents? How’s the food? Any parties?”  
“You don’t understand. I made a 4.0!”  
“Have you met any girls?”  

His parents had been successful students, even exceptional students. They were living out missed opportunities in him. But, he said, things  

Minority or minorities?  

Davidson Black Week, which is scheduled for April 5-10, should be a good one. At the very least it seems as if it is going to be well-funded. This is largely thanks to the establishment by the Union Board on Wednesday of a Minority Activities Committee. According to the minutes of the Union Board Executive Committee meeting of January 22, the first programming activity for the Minority Activities group will be Black Week. It was decided at the same meeting that Darlene Cunningham would receive the Union Board chair nomination to head the Minority Activities Committee. Cunningham is an officer of the Black Student Coalition. She was elected with no opposition at Wednesday’s Union Board Meeting.  

The Minority Activities Committee is designed to coordinate programming dealing specifically with minority groups (religious, racial, and ethnic). The committee will be funded with $2000 from the Cultural Events Committee and $1000 from the Union’s large contingency fund. As chairman, Cunningham will select members for her committee. It will be this select group that administrates the direction of the Minority Activities monies.  

We call for Cunningham to be careful in the selection of her committee members, to choose a range of people with a range of interests. In particular, blacks, women, foreign students, and religious minorities should be selected to balance the committee. We also call for students whose interests are to be served by this committee to make themselves known to Cunningham as she is selecting. Once selection is complete, all minorities should be made aware of who is on the committee by newsletter or fact sheet from the Union Board. Minorities then must continue to be conscious of the possibilities that the Minority Activities Committee monies afford.  

$3000 is a reasonable amount of money for the Minority Activities Committee to work with. It is not a large sum, however, and might go quickly if the committee is used heavily, or if a large amount is channeled to one source. To ensure a more balanced direction of the Minority Activities monies, the committee chairman and the members of the minorities it will serve should begin immediately to act responsibly.  

the davidsonian  
Matthew Covington................. Editor-in-Chief  
CHUCK KENNON.................... News Editor  
LOOM VENADIO.................... Features Editor  
Richard Boyce......................... Editorial Page Editor  
Bill Barnes................................. Sports Editor  
David Kellers............................ Photography Editor  
Anne FICKLEN......................... Copy Editor  
David Trader............................ Business Manager  
Rick Miller................................. Advertising Manager  
Circulation Manager  

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. SecondClass postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

"Things are different now. I want to go to med school. I’ve got to have those grades! These are troubled times. Very few studied for their own edification, or that of others."

The grey cold of winter had settled in. Quiet halls. Whispers of transfer turned to loud boasts. He went to the 900 Room. Half full. "Everyone must be at PAX house." He goes there. A fair crowd. But, someone said there were 1200 students at this school! Closed doors, hunched figures over dimly lit desks. The early hours of Sunday morning.

"College," he had said, "is essentially four years in which to grow up." The SDS. Burning flags. A student, long hair, mustached, dark glasses, feet propped on president’s desk, fist clenched. Kent State. The war. The 60’s.

"There’s no sense in taking the paper any longer. Face it. Neither one of us reads the thing. No time. We get Newsweek. That’s enough. Anyway, even Doonesbury is getting boring. Chinese diplomacy?"

He had learned the game pretty well. He knew the ground rules. Even Humanities readings diminished as he learned what corners could be cut. He could win the necessary grades, perhaps even the necessary scholarships. But, an era was coming to a close. Graduation loomed ahead. He felt horribly inadequate. What the hell would he do? He was scared. He went to the library.

High school. Rednecks and football heroes. Formalized dating. Gossip. Extra credit. 7th period government class dragged on. He watched the clock. He dreamed of college. Long, heated discussions on decidedly philosophical topics.

A new class arrives. A new freshman class. Pot, not only out of style, but dangerous. Weekday visitation and weekend visitors on the downswing. Hints of conservatism. Hints even of racial prejudice.

Weekend [see DISILLUSION, page 5]

Davidson College, a small intimate college.

Are conditions of religious belief for tenure compatible with academic freedom? Although the 1940 Statement on Tenure of the American Association of University Professors specifies that universities and colleges affiliated with religious groups may require their tenured faculty members to adhere to certain doctrines, such requirements seem to infringe upon the rights of professors to pursue the truth unfettered. By requiring that its permanent faculty possess certain religious beliefs, the church-related college prevents the proclamation of opposing positions on religious questions.

One may reply that occasional speakers hostile to religion may be invited to the campus to propose dissenting views or that a few non-tenured faculty without religious beliefs may be permitted to occupy positions on the faculty for a few years. But such allowances underline the unwillingness of the institution to permit a full and fair debate on both sides of the question since the occasional speaker and the temporary faculty cannot have as sustained an influence as the permanent faculty.

The presence of professors who challenge religious beliefs would lead to a much more lively debate among students and faculty on theological issues. Not surprisingly, religion professors on many church-related campuses welcome such challenges since they fear indifference more than they do honest dissent. Certainly, a professor can present students with many sides of an issue including positions opposed to his own, but he can never do so as forcefully or effectively as a live, vigorous opponent can.

Trustees of church-related colleges genuinely fear the secularization of their institutions since much of the history of higher education in America echoes that theme over and over again as the Harvards and Yales, founded primarily to educate youth for the ministry and government, have lost their early Puritan ties. But the process by which these institutions became completely secular in their orientation may not have followed overt decisions to admit faculty members with positions hostile to religion on their faculties. Instead, very gradually the professed believers on their faculties became [see TENURE, page 5]