The Davidsonian, December 10, 1976

Students’ heroes defy consistency

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

The traditional hero image of days gone by has taken new shape at Davidson College. No longer are there a
few control figures seen and acknowledged as heroes. Instead, there are many personalities that obtain admiration rather than worship. In
a recent survey, students were asked if they had heroes. The majority of the seventy students questioned did not. Of
those questioned, thirty-three had at least one hero, thirty-six had no heroes, and only one person did not know.

“A hero is someone admired and respected and put on a higher level. I know people who would fit in
the first category but not in the second,” reasoned one freshman for not having a hero. Another student explained that
she didn’t have a hero because, “...I am myself and I don’t want to imitate someone else. A hero is
someone that you'd like to see yourself become.”

There seemed to be the consensus of those interviewed that there are not as many heroes as there used to
be. One junior reasoned, “Maybe we've become so sophisticated and idealistic that no one wants to be a hero—you must
be under a lot of pressure to be a hero.” Others suggested that perhaps people are no longer looking for
heroes or even thinking about them. The question, then, is, are there heroes to be had in this world?

“In as much as a person allows himself to make goals for himself, heroes are to be had,” answered a
senior. He, however, would not tell who his hero was. Of all the heroes named, only one name was mentioned
twice. Abraham Lincoln was named by a Texan and a Georgian. Said a Texan freshman, “I liked his values, his
action in a crisis, and his way of standing up for his decisions... he tried to do what was best
for the country even though (he was) cut down. He was gentle but strong and so wise. He’s been my
hero since the fourth grade.” The Georgian stated that he admired Lincoln’s humanity. “He was gentle and kind. He didn’t
try to bully people. He was very wise.”

The heroes that were named by others polled covered a full scope of subjects. Thirteen of the heroes fell into
the actor/entertainer category. Those admired for acting talents were James Bond, Charles Bronson, John Wayne, Humphrey Bogart, and Charlie Chaplin...
Anthony Quinn, “Whose face is able to convey such deep thoughts...super-mime Marcel Marceau...super-star Jack Nicholson... and super entertainer and humanitarian
Bob Hope. Only one woman, Cicely Tyson, was

---

Friday, December 10, 1976
8 pm Wrestling: Livingston, Livingston-Salisbury, N.C.
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: Mel Brooks’ “Young Frankenstein” Love Auditorium
10 pm Egg Nog and Caroling Party 900 Room

Saturday, December 11, 1976
All Day Crafts Fair Morrison Room Lounge & Lobby & 900 Room
8 pm Concert: Atlanta Rhythm Section Love Auditorium
9 pm Black Student Coalition Party Rusk House
10:30 pm Christmas Disco 900 Room

Sunday, December 12, 1976
5 pm Christmas Vespers DCPC
7 pm Life/Work Planning Morrison Roommentioned. Those appreciated for musical talent were George Harrison, Elton John, and Cat Stevens. Hero
authors were Royal Robbins, Sinclair Lewis, Robert Heinlein, Richard Halliburton, Eugene O'Neill, Shakespeare, Twain, and Thoreau. Characters from books were
Prince Myshkin, who was “uncompromising and honest,” Don Quixote, “because he tried to realize his dreams,” and Holden Caulfield. Sports
stars named as heroes were Bert Jones and Bart Starr. Other answers were: “richer than me,” “a combination of lots
of people,” “a combination of my father and my Lutheran minister.” Only one person said that Jesus was his hero,
“because he was so able to love and to forgive.”

William Buckley's “sharp wit and conservatism” won him an admirer—the same admirer of the “bald and innovative” Milton Friedman. “Martin
Luther King is my hero. I liked his idea of nonviolent protest.”

Monday, December 13, 1976
10 am Dance Class Love Auditorium
Juggling Morrison Room
1 pm Dance Class Love Auditorium
Honors Center Luncheon Honors Center
2:45 pm Yoga Class Morrison Room
7 pm Women’s Basketball: Catawba Johnston Gym
Christmas Party for International Students 900 Room
9 pm Open End with SGA Presidential Candidates Morrison Room

Tuesday, December 14, 1976
“Achilles was brave and strong, yet vulnerable.”
“Schweitzer’s dedication made him my hero.”
“Robert E. Lee was a cool guy.”
“Superman is mine because he defends the cause of justice selflessly.”
Other heroes were Churchill, Ben Franklin, and “my mother.”

For some, a hero is someone whose characteristics are admirable and thus are those that are coveted. A hero isn’t
“the perfect person” but is a person who succeeds even in the face of mistakes. Said a sophomore, “A hero
fills an inadequacy that you find within yourself.” For others, a hero is someone that one patterns his life after.
However, this is the hero worship that most students back away from. “I like the way I am, but I
also have heroes. I think that it’s healthy to strive for better characteristics and that’s easier to do when they’re
in someone you admire... After all, anything worth having is worth bettering. Of all the heroes named, most were heroes
because, as one student put it when speaking of his, “their ability to stand up for what they believe and
to put into actions their beliefs.”

10 am Open Meeting with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
12:30 pm CROP Hunger Relief Meals 900 Room
1 pm Transcendental Meditation 900 Room
4:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
7 pm Worship Service—Caroling DCPC on Village Green
8 pm Fine Film: “The Magnificent Ambersons” Love Auditorium
9 pm German Club Party 900 Room
10 pm Fine Film Discussion and Refreshments Morrison Room

Wednesday, December 15, 1976
1 pm Dance Class Love Auditorium
2:30 pm Juggling Morrison Room
4 pm Honors Center Film: “The Air We Breathe” Honors Center Lounge
6 pm T. J. Reddy: Poetry/Prisons 900 Room
8 pm Basketball: Georgia Tech (televised) Atlanta, Ga.

Thursday, December 16, 1976
10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
Dance Class Love Auditorium
11:30 am Transcendental Meditation Blue Mtg. Room
4 pm Work/Study Party 900 Room
7 pm Humanities Film: “Marat/Sade” Love Auditorium
