```
April 16, 1976

April Opponent Place Time
Baseball
16th State Davidson 3:00
17th USC Columbia, S.C. 2pm
19th Catawba Davidson 3 pm
21st Appalachian Boone, N.C. 3 pm
Golf
16th Catawba Charlotte Country Club 1 pm
19th Southern Conference Country Club of S.C. 1 pm
20th Southern Conference Florence, S.C. 1 pm
Rugby
18th VMI Davidson 2 pm
Tennis
16th East Carolina Davidson 2 pm
17th Richmond Davidson 1 pm
19th South Carolina Davidson 2 pm
21st UNC-C Davidson 2 pm
Women’s Tennis
16th UNC-C Charlotte 3 pm
19th Wake Forest Winston-Salem 2 pm
20th Queens Davidson 3:30 pm
22nd Women’s Tennis Tournament UNC-C All day

CHIP BONDURANT aces his opponent in last week’s match

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION
SNACK BAR SPECIAL

Ice Cream Cone
Vanilla or Chocolate
Only $.15
OFFER GOOD
FRIDAY, APR. 16-THURSDAY, APR. 22

ALSO

Fish & Chips
Only $.99
OFFER GOOD
TUESDAY, APR. 20-11 A.M. to 8 P.M.

STAN BROWN goes for the fence against the Deacons in Winston-Salem.

-Pete Goodman

Cat netters close on title

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson all but clinched the Southern Conference tennis title yesterday with a decisive 5-4 victory over powerful Appalachian State.

Riding a nine-match winning streak, Davidson combined a strong performance in the singles competition with a clutch victory in the
doubles by Steve Johnson and Steve Holman to pull out the important win.

Johnson’s and Holman’s 7-5, 6-3 victory in the number three doubles staved off a strong comeback by Appalachian that had
cut a 4-2 Davidson advantage to a 4-4 deadlock.

Appalachian used several foreign players during the match as usual, but they were ineffective in the singles. Chip Bondurant defeated
Adnan Khan 7-5, 3-6, 6-3 in the number one match and Brian Cooper downed a scrappy Phil Secada 6-7, 6-3,
6-2 in the number five singles.

Cooper’s match was somewhat marred by a series of questionable line calls in the first set and an umpire was
used during the last two sets.

Holman and John Mitchell continued to play excellent singles as they won 6-1, 6-2 and 3-6, 6-0, 6-2 respectively.

In the other singles matches, Mike Barnhill lost a tough 7-5, 6-7, 4-6 decision to Davis Bobb and John Trout
was defeated in the number six singles. Barnhill had match point twice in the second set but was unable to
put his opponent away.

The victory gives Davidson a 5-0 conference record and an excellent shot at the conference title. Victories over East Carolina
and Richmond this Friday and Saturday would give the Wildcats an undefeated season in the Southern Conference and leave them
in a strong position for the Conference tournament at Richmond.

Frank sighted an earlier Davidson victory over Harvard as providing momentum for the Wildcats.

"The Harvard win was great for team confidence and after we took Furman 5-4 we were gone. Now we’ve beaten
the defending champs and we've got a real good shot at the title.

Earlier in the season when you looked at our young team there was no way you could pick us to
win it all but the kids have really dedicated themselves and done the job,” Frank noted.

Earlier in the week Davidson downed a strong Atlantic Christian College Squad 7-2 and then traveled to Lexington, Virginia for
matches with VMI and Washington and Lee. Davidson destroyed the Keydets 9-0 and breezed by W&L 7-2.

Frank was very pleased with the team's showing in Lexington especially against W&L.

“We proved we were very tough physically as we won several matches in the third set. Also, we played on
hard courts and it was a great confidence booster going into the tournament which will be played on hard courts.”
```
