the davidsonian
March 19, 1976

Energy discussed, change predicted
By ANNE PELFREY
Staff Writer

Although energy reserves continue to decrease with time, the growing lack of reserves will not change our lifestyles too much,
according to Richard Lilly, General Manager for Marketing of Exxon Corporation. “There will be no drastic change in lifestyle, but
people will probably spend a little more money on energy consumption. Prices will go up at about the same rate
as inflation. Automobiles will be made smaller and lighter, but there will be no extensive changes,” said Lilly in an
interview, Wednesday, March 10.

Yet Lilly pointed to the growing problem of unavailable reserves. “In 1954, with price controls, there were 23 years of
reserves. Five years later, there were 21 years of reserves. In 1974, there were 11 years left of reserves. You
can see we've been aware of the problem for some time,” he said.

It seems, however, that until fairly recently, the public knew little about this shortage. Why? “It’s the politicians. The problem
hasn’t slipped up on them either. They’re saying that you can’t continue to control energy prices. They’re not uninformed. It’s
a sheer case of political expediency. In New England, for example, people are not going to vote for a higher
gas price when they know they have enough gas for a few more years. Politicians think solely about the next
election. We can only hope public opinion will push elected representatives where they will take more informed positions,” Lilly said.

Still, much distorted information about energy is publicized, according to Lilly. “I read somewhere that the U.S. consumes 30 percent
of the world’s energy, even though the U.S. has only six percent of the world’s population. But the article failed
to include the fact that the U.S. makes 30 percent of the world’s GNP. That’s what uses the energy,” he
said.

Many comparisons of the U.S. to Europe in energy consumption are invalid, according to Lilly. “Eastern Europe has a more
stable climate than the U.S. The highest temperature is around 84 degrees in England,” he said. Lilly added that Eastern
European industry often uses more energy per unit if it is government-owned.

FRANK ZARB, Director of the Federal Energy Commission, was here last week as part of the energy symposium.

Leon Venable
Straw vote primary

The North Carolina Primary is Tuesday, March 23. The SGA is sponsoring a mock primary on campus Friday, March 19.
The candidates will include Democrats Benson, Carter, Harris, Jackson, Udall, and Wallace. Republican candidates are Ford and Reagan. Students must
vote in either Democratic or Republican column but not in both. There will also be a “No Preference” column.

Jackson chases Democratic nomination
By SCOTT REID
Senior News Editor

Presidential candidate Henry (Scoop) Jackson considers himself to be a “hardnosed” conservative on issues concerning freedom and U.S. foreign policy,
and a liberal on most domestic issues such as economics and civil rights. The grey-haired, short U.S. Senator from the
state of Washington was one of the very first of the Democratic presidential hopefuls to declare his candidacy, doing so
at a luncheon in Washington, D.C., nearly fourteen months ago. In this way, Jackson has followed the example of George
McGovern four years ago and, like McGovern, his campaign organization has been firmly established. Another consequence of Jackson’s early start
has been that he is one of the financially best-off candidates in the race. Jackson has been insisting that detente
is a one-way street far longer than any of his fellow Democratic contenders, andled the fight in the Senate to
bar the passage of the Fair Trade agreement with Russia. In 1974, Kissinger worked out the Fair Trade agreement with
the Russians, but when the bill came before the Senate, Jackson had an amendment added that prohibited the U.S. from
cooperating in the agreement if the Russians did not ease immigration restrictions on Soviet Jews. The agreement, which would have
given the Soviet Union a "most-favored-nation" status when trading with the U.S., failed when the Soviets refused to cooperate with
the so-called "Jackson Amendment." Because of his strong stand for freer immigration of Jews from Russia, Jackson did well in
Florida’s primary, especially among Miami-area Jews who gave him over 80% of their votes. A large percentage of the $5
million Jackson has raised in campaign funds so far is estimated to have come from Jewish sources.

As a counter to the USSR, Jackson proposes stronger relations with China, including the opening of an embassy in Peking.
He would also reduce the embassy in Taiwan to a liaison office. Jackson believes the most important issue in this
election is the economy. He has said that "jobs will be the centerpiece of the Jackson Administration." He supports public
works programs and other kinds of pump-priming to ease unemployment. He is for lowering interest rates and would control domestic
oil prices. He also wants to rebuild railroads using federal money.

Jackson is strongly supported by labor because he is in favor of cutting tax breaks presently given to multinationals. Other
tax reforms he would make include raising the minimum a person can be taxed and a sliding scale of taxation
of capital gains, with fewer taxes being levied the longer the capital is invested. In the area of energy, Jackson
believes that federal funds should be loaned to companies exploring for energy sources and believes the U.S. Government should do
drilling for oil on the outer continental shelf.

The presidential candidates appear to divide into two camps on environmental issues: those who see present laws as overly restricting
economic activities (Ford, Wallace), and those who think that present laws must be strictly enforced and additional statutes should be
enacted (Carter, Jackson, Udall). An additional statute Jackson would like to see would restrict strip mining.

Jackson has clearly come out against involuntary busing. In this position, he is probably second only to Wallace. He has
a bill before the Senate now that would change the busing situation in two ways. The first thing the bill
would do is establish special three-judge courts to decide all busing cases. The judges would have to consider whether busing
would lead to a further flight of whites, as it often has, and a number of other criteria before ordering
busing in any area. The bill would also authorize $1 billion over the next two years for alternative methods of
ending school segregation. With this bill, Jackson feels that he is "making it clear that I am against busing and
for integration."

Jackson was known throughout the Viet Nam War for his staunch support of pro-war activities. This is a position for
which more liberal Democrats have never forgiven him. Their fear of his hawkishness on defense and foreign policy may prove
to be the single largest obstacle to his getting the Democratic nomination.

Jackson’s health is generally considered "excellent." He does suffer from chronic nasal stuffiness and is allergic to adhesive tape, strawberries,
eggs, wool, and plated gold.
