December 3, 1976

The Davidsonian

Upset Ball State 85-54%.

Davidson Fencers Set New Record

By TEX MAWLE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s newly formed fencing team got off to a tremendous start this week as they rolled to an 85-54 3/4 victory over previously unbeaten Ball State.

Coach Sterling Martin's squad combined explosive speed with some quick hammer work to dominate the Buffalos. Several new records were established, including Scott Harbottle’s time of 15:27 in the 220 picket fence that smashed his previous record of 16:03.

Harbottle displayed some nifty hammer work in scoring his victory. The potential All-American from Walla Walla felt that nail selection played a crucial role in his record performance.

“I felt really confident coming around the turn but had some trouble with my crossbars down the straight. Fortunately, I had switched from 3/4 to 1 1/4 inch nails just before the race or I would have never won.”

In the always grueling 400 barbed wire competition, “Easy” Ed Anderson continued Davidson's winning ways with a time of 12:05. The race was run with three strands instead of the usual four strands used in international competition.

After the race, Anderson complained bitterly about the race conditions.

“It's harder than hell to pound posts into that damn tartan track, otherwise I could have broken eleven minutes.”

Lance Dickey echoed Anderson’s sentiments after a disappointing third-place finish in the 880 split rail.

“All I want to know is if Cartmill has ever tried to sink a 4x4 into that crap they call a track.”

However, Coach Martin was not overly concerned with his team's complaints. He feels certain that the problem will be cleared up by the end of the year.

“I was reading Fencer’s World Journal the other day and I noticed that Williams College has recently installed an artificial Prairie Turf track. The way I figure it, it’s only a matter of time now till the word gets to Sam and we get ours.”

Not everyone was complaining and Dave Keller was all smiles after a devastating performance in the two-mile electric fence competition. Keller shocked the Buffalos with a sly move on the back straight that crossed the wires of two Ball State fencers, shorting out a late challenge by his opponents.

In what many people considered the most exciting race of the day, the Davidson one-mile chain link relay team was narrowly defeated by the Ball State squad. Coty Pinckney had a comfortable two-post lead in the third leg when a 50-yard segment of chain link suddenly snapped loose from its post and rolled itself into a “chain link Coty-dog.” Coty lost several precious minutes cutting his way out but to no avail as the Buffalos rolled to victory.

Coach Martin is planning on a very strong recruiting season with several top prospects having already signed letters of intent to Davidson.

“We've got a couple of blue chippers coming in from Oklahoma who do incredible things with barbed wire. We've also got a kid from the Big Apple who has more natural talent in chain link than anyone I've ever seen.”

Martin sees a bright future for this relatively new sport of fencing. However, he thinks training must start at a younger age.

“If we can get a few Pee Wee leagues started—maybe in something like chicken wire then working up to goose and cow wire—I don’t see any reason why we can't take on the Reds in international meets.”

SILVER JEWELRY

Handcrafted
STERLING