Vol. LXV, No. FOURTEEN  
The Davidsonian — Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036  
January 30, 1976  

Union budgets overdrawn, confused accounts blamed  
By BILL BARNES  
News Editor  

Three departments of the College Union have overspent their allotted budgets for this fiscal year, according to Union President Karl E. Goodhouse. Goodhouse said that confusion accounted for much of the apparent deficit. “It’s no one’s fault,” he said. “It’s the fault of the process. I don’t know who’s to blame.”

Deficits have appeared in the 900 Room, Programming, and Vice Presidential Contingency funds, though no deficit has appeared in the Union budget as a whole. The 900 Room deficit, which runs to $2472.57, is the greatest and is interwoven with the Contingency Fund deficit. Goodhouse said that expenses came out of the Contingency Funds for which no budget allocations have been made. He cited specifically the apartment where performers stayed while at Davidson. “This has effectively wiped out any monies we had,” he said.

The confused budgetary system is at least partly at fault for the 900 Room deficit, according to Goodhouse. “We've got no receipts from the Comptroller’s Office for door fees taken in,” he said. “So our books show deficits where theirs don’t.”

Union Vice President Robert M. Mayer, in charge of social monies, including the 900 Room funds, agreed about the confused monetary allocations. “No one knows how it works,” he said. “We have ‘X’ amount of money but we’ve had committees where transfers have been forgotten,” he said, referring specifically to the cost of the musical 1776, which had been allocated to the Cultural Events budget but forgotten.

Mayer also commented on the lack of communication between the Union and the Comptroller’s office, saying that several deposits were totally missing. He was not, however, surprised at the 900 Room deficit. “I knew I was going to have to overspend my budget in that room this year to get it established among students and artists,” he said. “I expect to lose every penny of my budget on that room,” he continued. “I want to stretch it as far as I can.”

Union Director C. Shaw Smith does not see the problem as a major one, as the budget as a whole has not been stretched. He also credits...

Shiekh Ali defines fourth world need  
By MATTHEW COVINGTON  
Editor  

Shiekh Rustum Ali, Foreign Service Officer of Bangladesh assigned to the embassy in Washington, spoke at Davidson this week about the politics of oil and the fourth world. Ali defined a “fourth world” country as a non-communist country with per-capita income between $75 and $200 a year. Bangladesh is one of these countries.

Bangladesh is described by Ali as an egalitarian country. “There is equal distribution of everything to all of its 75 million people,” said Ali. Bangladesh is a country where 85 percent of the people are dependent on agriculture for employment and sustenance. It is a country without a wealthy class. “We have no Henry Fords or John Rockefellers,” said Ali.

Bangladesh is also a country that has been hurt by the rise in crude oil prices in the last few years. “Industrial nations have had no real trouble with the oil price hikes. These countries can borrow against their industry for money to pay off oil debts,” said Ali. “The countries that are hardest hit by high oil prices have been the fourth world countries,” he continued.

The fourth world has a debt of $75,000,000,000, or about 40 percent of the world’s debt incurred through the purchase of oil. “Bangladesh has been the hardest hit of the fourth world countries,” said Ali. They have had to spend $125,000,000 for oil in 1975 as opposed to $25,000,000 in 1973. According to Ali, this drastic increase in oil prices will seriously affect the fourth world countries who cannot afford to pay the prices being asked by Middle Eastern oil-exporting nations. “One fourth of the world’s population faces tremendous change in its lifestyle as a result of increased oil prices to fourth world nations,” said Ali. [see SHIEKH, page 3]the internal problems to confusion. “The big problem with the whole thing,” said Smith, “is so much detail. And we don’t have a person to devote three hours a day to it.” Smith said that he merely approved payment, and that allocation of monies was in student hands. “I do this on the basis of what I’m told by students to do,” he said. Goodhouse is in the process of appointing an ad hoc committee to audit the Union Budget and detect misallocations over the next six weeks. This committee consists of Bradley Swalwell, Bo Hunter, John Trout, College Comptroller Robert W. Davidson, and College Business Manager Robert A. Currie.

SINGER/MUSICIAN Raun McKinnon will present two shows in the 900 Room this Saturday, January 31 at 9 pm and 11 pm. Admission is $2 for both students and faculty/staff.

Union structure changed
Board unveils new by-laws, faculty to work with union
By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Union By-laws Committee Chairman Scott D. Reid unveiled the first publicly available draft of the proposed union by-laws at the Union Board meeting last Tuesday night. “The committee is coming out with a draft that will be circulated among union board members, SGA senators, and certain members of the college administration,” said Reid. “Hopefully, these people will read the document and bring any suggestions for changes, additions, or corrections to an open meeting next Tuesday night, February 3, at 8 pm in the Morrison Room,” he continued. “This draft is not going to be anywhere near the final draft, as far as I can see.”

Union President Karl E. Goodhouse outlined the content of the by-laws and the effect that the proposed document would have on the operation of the Union. “In a sense, what the draft does is form a two-structure hierarchy. The Union Board will now be specifically concerned with programming. The standing committee (which is at present known as the Executive Committee) will be concerned with setting policy for the Union. This policy deals with use of the building, finances, budgeting, and so forth. The board can review any standing committee decisions concerning policy,” said Goodhouse at the board meeting.

Goodhouse went on to say that the make-up of the board and the standing committee will be different than at present. “There will be students, administrators, and faculty members on both the Union Board and on the Standing Committee, with a clear student majority on both,” he said.

“This is an attempt to get better study and planning of Union policy.” Goodhouse added that he was strongly in favor of the inclusion of faculty and administration members on the board. “The inclusion of faculty and administration members on the board is consistent with the purposes of the Union as set forth in the preamble,” he said.

Goodhouse explained why he thought these changes were necessary and what problems he expects the changes to solve. “I think the structure will be better in that it will solve a couple of problems. First, the board is composed primarily of people concerned with programming changes and innovations,” said Goodhouse. “Second, for a long time now, the board meetings have been organized confusion. They have been this way because we have been trying to pick good policy out of the air. By putting policy considerations in a standing committee expressly concerned with policy, we can provide for better study and planning of Union policy.”

Reid agreed with Goodhouse’s inclusion of faculty members and administrators on the Union Board and Standing Committee and provision of the by-laws which defines the roles of the Director and Assistant Director of the Union. “These definitions are in relation to and supplementary to the job descriptions of these two positions which are on file with the college Personnel Director,” said Goodhouse.