April 9, 1976

the davidsonian

9

Fairies apologize to column's victims

We have seen the error of our ways! We have burned our lace underwear, thrown away our year’s supply of Vaseline, cancelled our subscription to Penthouse, and now write only to the strains of Anita Bryant rather than the grunts of Frank Zappa. Our style has undergone as radical a change as the inside of the stalls in the Library basement men’s restrooms after a coat of fresh paint.

We have truly reformed. It has been discovered that in our dingy pasts shine the vestiges of an assistant scoutmaster, a YMCA basketball coach of eight-year-olds, and a prison recreation director. In the last week, each of us has reverted to his former wholesome self. Our only regret is that we must take time off from our various civic activities to write this article.

First, we must make several apologies to the past victims of our “perverted humor.” Ockham’s Razors, a team whose philosophical leanings indicate that they are the epitome of the IMAC student-athlete, have suffered often under our vicious diatribes. This week, the Razors have preserved their unblemished record in volleyball by defeating the Phi Gamma Deltas. Best of luck, gentlemen!

Others from whom we pray forgiveness include that fine sportsman, Michael Russ, the clean-living brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Jay Powell, who we know was a victim of his environment.

We have been disturbed by the recent rash of forfeits in all phases of IMAC play. These reprehensible forfeits undermine the competitive spirit of IMAC which has made this institution so great.

The poorest example was set by First Richardson and the Ragmen, who continued a double-forfeit in softball last Sunday. However, one team which forfeited this week did have an excuse: the boys of Cannon I were unable to meet the Aintry Squealers in volleyball because they had all crusaded to picket the opening of a PG movie in pristine Chevy Chase, Maryland.

In volleyball action, the misunderstood Sig Eps remained undefeated and lived up to their slogan, “Humble in victory, gracious in defeat,” when they beat Gomer’s Pyle in a cleanly contested match.

Wofford’s Woffers nipped Richardson IV in three games. The Woffers displayed their outstanding character and integrity by repeatedly calling themselves for foot faults.

In another thriller, Spring Fever was extended to three games by Small But Slow, but the losers showed their class by treating Spring Fever to milk and cookies after the game.

The closest game of the week was the confrontation of powerful Phi Delta Theta #2 and the Wooley Greys. In a game of utmost quality in play, the Delts emerged with a hard-fought 15-12, 14-16, 15-13 victory.

Girls’ volleyball witnessed a spectacular upset on Monday night as Cindy Morrison-led 3rd Little took victory over the once-beaten Eaves. The Mistakes squelched the Sty, 17-15, 8-15, 15-7.

According to IMAC regulations and the dictates of “common decency,” the girls all wore white ankle-length dresses with gay bonnets and male spectators were properly banned from the gym. A further apology must be proffered to women IMAC participants whom we have defiled in past columns. We are certain that these fine women will go on to become efficient housewives, good cooks, and devoted mothers.

It has been reported that empty beer cans were found at the edges of IMAC fields #2 and #3. We are convinced that this litter was deposited by misguided townspeople. It is our sincere hope that Davidson IMAC participants will never succumb to the evil of alcoholic consumption. Our present community action project is the rehabilitation of the town’s miscreants.

However, several individuals need to be cautioned for their team names. Persons possessed of a “demented wit” might misconstrue some of them. Warnings are hereby issued to: I Felta Thi, Steamin’ Seamen, the Masterbatters, the Moby Dicks, the Banana Bunch, and the Clap. We are also concerned about new commissioner Rozelle Brown’s permitting IMAC softball play on Sunday, as it interfered with several players’ observance of the Sabbath.

That’s it for this week. Sleep tight, get plenty of exercise, and think clean thoughts.

Golden Byzantine Cross by Alva Museum Replicas

Authorized golden replica of an ancient treasure in the Museum of Art, Rhode Island School of Design. Cast from an impression of the original and hand finished to recreate its rich patina. Gift boxed with complete history. Complete with chain, #RI-3

gold electroplated

The Village Store

JULIE CHRISCO demonstrates her form during Wednesday night’s struggle between Gus’ Gals and Watts I-A.

CATCHING SOME RAYS—Patto, the Sills, Jake, and Mad Pete Goodman quaff a few brews on the hill during Monday’s baseball game.

-Pete Goodman

BY CHOICE

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

For Your TENNIS LIFE

New Colors of BLUE, GREEN, ORANGE, YELLOW in Shorts and Knit Tops as well as traditional WHITE

From: IZOD, JANTZEN, MUNSINGWEAR, and BERLE

Use your Automatic Charge Account

John Mack & Son

Only 6 miles north—Mooresville.