February 13, 1976

The Davidsonian

Goudy views tenure as protective

To the Editor:

No one has greater respect or admiration for Doctor Earl MacCormac than the undersigned, and no one has less desire
to cross verbal swords with him. However, his latest article on Tenure (Davidsonian, Feb. 6) has elicited certain responses from
that random collection of molecules purportedly circling between my ears—not in challenge so much as simply in observation.

Doctor MacCormac mentioned that religious views had better be discussed in open meeting in a pro-and-con manner, so that the
several views on a question are clearly placed in juxtaposition. How very much I agree! And how very much I
have wished for that sort of give and take! A great Oxford don, an intellectual atheist-turned-Christian-apologist, did exactly that in
his Socratic Club for the very purpose of creating an arena where point by point, Christian and non-Christian views could
be presented in the same meeting. His name: C. S. Lewis.

In almost any liberal arts course, either formal or personally pursued, it is very easy to let Christian writing and
Christian thought get “buried” by a great variety of non-Christian thought and writing. Then, too, visiting lecturers tend to come
steeped in the academic worldviews, and tend to present a humanistic, materialistic point of view. And there is no one
on the podium with anything like equal status to say, “That is one point of view, but there is another
equally valid or defensible.” Only last week we were charmed by the exciting and very logical presentation of one view
of the origin and meaning of life. But there was no one there to point out things that were not
explained, nor to say, as Doctor Olin Puckett would have said, “Anyone who has seen what I have seen through
a microscope knows there is a God,” or to say as Doctor Brooks of Chapel Hill said, “I have designed
computers and I can really appreciate the One who designed the greatest computer of them all, the human brain.”

There are many Ph.D.’s today who with their learning “have gotten wisdom,” who see life through all of science from
a perspective which admits a designer with a Capital D. Many are teaching, writing from Christian presuppositions rather than mechanistic
ones. I recall one very highly respected professor in an institution which ranks with Davidson academically, who shocked her physics
class with the statement, “No, these are not Newton’s laws. He just discovered them. They are God’s laws.” And from
the standpoint of real truth that seems rather close to the point.

Perhaps I should stop here, and I

Intellectual impact met

To the Editor:

I was glad to see at least two people last issue got the full intellectual impact of the front-page farce
about Williams College and the hall counselors. That statement, you may remember, beautifully complemented the piece about the art program
to show a typical week’s work for the Davidson administration. You could take the first part of that sentence about
the president’s being “not willing to involve the college in a long term commitment to support the National” and fill
it in with any constructive program proposed here in eight years.

I have always heard that when someone proves himself incapable of doing a job right he should be removed. It
is a complete mystery to me that a college with so many outstanding faculty members cannot find two sincere, competent
men to be President and Dean of Students—and I really wonder how those people got there in the first place.
I am constantly amazed how many of the complaints heard in The Davidsonian and about the campus in general are
directly traceable to their ineptitude. I hope, for instance, that the fellow who criticized Bo Brickles last issue realizes that
Terry Holland was so harassed by the administration’s meddling that a good coaching offer found him quite eager to leave.
That's certainly no surprise. Davidson once was fortunate enough to have Larry Brown working here, who was intelligent enough to
become ABA Coach of the Year—but naturally could not even carpet his office without clearing the color with His Majesty.
Homer Smith (whom Tom Harmon called the best offensive football coach in America) similarly departed expressing pure disgust with the
administrative meddling.

The football team brought a particularly formidable challenge for the new administration a few years back, since Davidson had a
Southern Conference championship team. The program could not have been demolished with more amazing efficiency—which of course was the plan
all along. This is admittedly getting away from recent events, but I don’t think everybody realizes just how these people
have worked to tear down anything the Davidson students could possibly become involved with or take any pride in.

Few things would be more beneficial to the campus than some good art, but the administration just took us another
step backwards. Anybody willing to hide the stories about the college’s substandard housing and poverty wages for employees, furthermore, would
certainly think nothing of denying money to hall counselors which had been promised to them. We naturally get all the
official doubletalk—like “I’m open to any suggestions” with the art situation, but if anybody here believes that I’d like to
know about it. We've heard a lot about the apathy at Davidson for several years. I have to think things
will improve considerably when we can get a sincere administration for the school and whom the students can trust.

HiltonOliver. Davidson College '77

I wouldn’t blame you, Mr. Editor, if you cut me off, but if I may, I should like to say
one word about Tenure—which of course is none of my business, except that I have come to love Davidson College
very much. Academic freedom is to be protected certainly, but after "x" years of pre-tenure service, cannot a man’s Christianity
be judged adequately by his peers without regard to creed or doctrinal statement? It would seem that at least as
much care should be given to protecting Christianity as to protecting academic freedom in an institution which "guarantees that the
Christian faith will be given a forthright hearing" as becomes a college which "retains strong ties with the Church."

Of course, Christianity does not need to be "protected"—only to be given a reasonably equal opportunity and a sound presentation.
Incidentally, what other organization in all history has consciously admitted to its representation and its councils those people who do
not show some evidence of accepting the basic presuppositions and objectives of that organization? People may cry "intolerance" on the
one hand and "necessity to obtain qualified personnel" on the other; but on examination, don’t both seem rather specious?

My apologies for "sounding off" in this fashion.
George Goudy '72
University of Virginia

To the Editor:

Must one presume that Davidson is unique—her students are not particularly different from those of other colleges. Granted that they
are a cut above most—this is a fine institution. But certainly Davidson students are as prone to worry—to the pressures
of the world in general. We all live in the same world, and for all our isolation, we are affected
by the turbulence, the change, the insecurity of our world. Unfortunately, many students act as if grades were indeed vital—because
they are. It is difficult to separate a noble pursuit of education from grade grubbing. Indeed, many here have outlined
an area of study and feel that they must indeed work hard, and a grade becomes a written record of
what they can do. Life is not carefree, and often enough the student at Davidson feels that he or she
must work hard or someone else will be doing better.

Most Davidson students come from schools where they were involved both in academics and in extracurricular activities, and they did
well. They come to Davidson to "compete" with students here. The students at the top are admired, and it is
natural for the others to assert themselves as well. The biggest scramble is seen in the pre-med program. What can
a student do but succumb to the pressure, retreat to the library? Hopefully, some student will do more than this—rise
above worship of the almighty grade because the grade does live and will continue to live. The best will learn
that there is more, and indeed most students know that there is more—we are young, but we are more aware
of other things than we are often given credit for—the things that count in the end. The search of knowledge
through thinking—that is genuine, but in between, we are coming to know. Perhaps all we can hope for is that
college will teach us this because it’s best to make mistakes early in life rather than later—because a hope, a
promise for the future is truly what we are.

Patricia Soriano '79
Davidson College

Davis wins praise

To the Editor:

Realizing that the popular trend these days is harshly criticizing the Athletic Department or members therein, I nevertheless would like
to assume for a moment the role of the radical, and direct a few words of praise toward a member
of our Wildcat staff. Bill Davis, the senior member of the student trainer squad, has for four years practically given
his entire existence to Davidson athletics. In so doing, he has sacrificed social life, academics, and participation in certain other
areas of college life. Though somewhat small in stature, Bill is a tough character, and well qualified to handle the
duties and responsibilities he has chosen to take on. Because of his dedication to Wildcat athletics, and his tremendous knowledge
of athletic training (much of it self-taught), sports events here and on the road have gone smoothly and competently during
his four-year stint as a trainer.

Besides taping ankles and other parts of the athlete’s anatomy better than anyone else in the department, Bill has accepted
other positions of equal, if not more importance. These positions include team physician, administrator, treasurer, coach, minister, manager, morale booster...the
list goes on and on. He is also one of the Wildcat’s staunchest fans. Though Bill Davis is his real
name, he has seldom heard it as a student trainer. In his younger days as a Wildcat trainer, the team
members referred to him as "Wild Bill." But as he earned their respect, admiration, and complete trust, his title has
appropriately been changed to "Dr. B."

Dr. B. graduates this spring, and his absence will create a considerable void in the college’s athletic program. For four
years he has done it all. He has set a standard of excellence which we who follow must try to
maintain. For the privilege of being associated with Bill on and off the job, I am grateful. My hope now
is that the coaches, players, and other members of the athletic contingent will, in the next few months, likewise express
to Dr. B. the gratitude he so richly deserves.

Wayne M. Cross '77
