the davidsonian
December 3, 1976

Emergency in Inoculation
By DOLLY PARTON
Mostly Hair

Following Davidson’s first confirmed case of swine flu, doctors gathered quickly at the Infirmary Thursday and set up an emergency inoculation program aimed at halting further spread of the disease. Nurses would not release the name of the freshman who has the dreaded flu. One commented, “He won't be the only one. Kids have been coming in since Wednesday complaining about various ills, and several of them show preliminary signs of the swine flu. We only have a few beds left here.”

One doctor stated: “We don’t want to cause undue alarm or panic, but the disease is upon us. We are concerned because less than half the students and faculty came by this week to receive their shots. There is nothing to prevent an epidemic of swine flu at Davidson College. We are requesting that all students and faculty gather at the Infirmary at 8 am Friday. We will then begin shooting everyone up. Those who have not yet been inoculated will be allowed to go in first—they are in the most danger. Even those who were inoculated earlier this week should come to the Infirmary—they too are in danger. We didn’t expect any problem until January, the peak of the flu season. So we've been giving only mild doses this week—doses that would stimulate the body to form antibodies but would not cause harmful side effects. Since these people were only inoculated this week, their bodies have not had time to build up immunity,” continued the doctor.

The shots to be given Friday are much more potent than earlier ones. Doctors admit that most who are inoculated will come down with at least a mild case of the flu, but one doctor says, “It’s either that or—well, let’s just say that taking the shot Friday is the only viable alternative.”

The Davidsonian went to College President Samuel R. Spencer's office to get his comment on the emergency inoculation plan. Spencer's assistant, Peter Clark, said that “he is discussing important admissions matters with Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, and cannot be reached for comment.”

Following a hunch, this reporter went to the tennis courts where Spencer and White were discussing admissions over a heated tennis match. Said Spencer: “Swine flu? Well, no, I haven't heard about it—ACE!—What are we doing about it? Well, I don't really know—OUT? What do you mean...OUT?...HD, YOU'RE A TURKEY!—Say, this hasn't happened at Williams College yet, has it? I believe we've finally beat them to the draw on something. I'll tell you my opinion, son—Davidson was a good college before the swine flu, and, by golly, she'll be a good college after it.”

White was puzzled at the reports of swine flu. “I know—we've been expanding our recruiting efforts, but I’m almost certain that we haven't yet accepted any pigs at Davidson,” he said.

Professor Alexander J. McKelway is circulating a petition amongst the faculty recommending that classes be dismissed Friday to encourage students to participate in the emergency inoculation program. “There are so many Republicans in this student body, I'm afraid they may be too backward and morally dull to know that it’s good for them to take the shot. We have a responsibility to encourage and educate them.”

Registrar Richard Burts was asked if classes might be cancelled on Friday so the students and faculty could go to the Infirmary. “No, I’m afraid not—I mean, we can't let something like the swine flu halt academic progress at Davidson. I’d like to help, but my hands are tied.”

The Davidson Christian Fellowship was the first student organization to publicly endorse the emergency program. A DCF leader outlined the group’s plans: “Part of our people will be combing the campus, passing out ‘You need it!’ buttons and stickers and encouraging all to take the shot. Others will give each student an ‘I’ve had it!’ button after he is inoculated. We'll also be supplying coffee, hot chocolate, and divine patience to those braving the cold weather to stand in line Friday.”

Ron Scott, hosting a pork barbecue at Rush House, took time out to comment: “Well, they can’t blame this one on me. The students always say [see INOCULATION, page 3]

Center studies river’s meager beaver
By HELEN BEDD
Staff Writer
Dr. Robert Avinger, Dean ofThe Center for Honors Studies announced a new interdisciplinary program involving all members of the Center. The project will be a study of why there are no beavers in the Rocky River. This follows the Center’s study of pollution in the Rocky River, during which it was discovered that the college was the major polluter. That, of course, was smoothly brushed under the rug, and the blame was affixed on the broad area covered by Acts of God. The team heading the study will be Professors Charles Cornwell, Robert Avinger, D. Grant, and Robert Palmer. Avinger explained, “The details have not been worked out and we’ll wing it as usual.”

P.O. shutdown [Continued from page 1]

Nicholls is optimistic about the prospect. “The building has such a convenient location in relation to campus that it would make ideal housing. The costs would be minimal. We would have to move in beds, but besides that, student needs would be taken care of by the existing internal structures. For example, students could roll up their clothes and stuff them in the post office boxes.”

The loss of local postal service will undoubtedly be troublesome, but Davidson residents can draw comfort from the fact that small-town residents all over the country will be confronted with similar problems, including students at Williams College. As Will Terry puts it, “Sure, it’s an inconvenience, but these are hard times financially for the government and we all need to tighten our belts, so to speak, and help them out a little. Students will be very disoriented at ten in the morning with no post office to rush to, so we're attempting to organize a daily morning march on the laundry to deal with their need to congregate during the ten o'clock break.”

What we hope to find out is why there are no beavers currently in the river and why. Possibly we'll try and reintroduce beavers to this area. What's a river without beavers anyway?” When asked if there have ever been beavers in the river, Avinger responded, “There’s no conclusive evidence either way. There have been unconfirmed reports of fossil beaver finds, but there definitely aren't any live ones out there because I looked myself.”

Avinger also explained why another field project involving the Rocky River was chosen, “We had such a good time running around in the mud last time we said ‘why stop?’ We social science types don’t get a chance to get out in the field much, and a beaver hunt seemed just right. We don’t want to become intellectually sterile over here. Besides, since we don’t have any Phys. Ed. requirements, we thought it would be good exercise. We want to get our students out of the academic closets and after beavers.”

Dr. Cornwell, Professor of English, sniffed the air broadly and then explained his role in the project. “We’d like to bring in related texts about beavers. I realize Henry James did not write about them, but I will endeavor to find out something about them anyway.”

Dr. Mr. Grant, the husband of Dr. Mrs. Grant, feels that most of the empirical study will fall to him. “After spiders, it was natural that I move up to beavers. Why, I remember seeing a species of aquatic beaver on the Galapagos Islands...” Grant added, “Don Kimmel is also going to help out. We were going to use him as a lure until he shaved his mustache. He’s still interested though. As Don always says, ‘If it has sex, I'll study it.’ Of course, we're not sure if beavers indigenous to Davidson have any sex at all.”

Robert Palmer of the psych department envisions making up tests. “I love tests. Never can have enough statistics, especially when you're not sure what you're talking about. You've heard of the Thurston scale? We're going to use a slightly modified version called the Thurstin Scale to see if there really is a need for beavers in the area. Oh, and it will be multiple choice, of course.”

Avinger explained his role as coordinator, “I’m supposed to coordinate this thing. That’s my job. That’s what they pay me for. So that’s my role. I’m also going to demand ounces because I get off on them. Even though beavers are the best dam builders, I doubt if there is much of a desire for them around Davidson. But then again, if we manipulate the statistics properly, we could probably fake a demand. Who knows what we'll find.”