2 thedavidsonian April 23, 1976

Enright takes bicentennial forensic tourney in Atlanta

By SAMUEL CRAWFORD
Staff Writer

Davidson College Junior Robert A. Enright captured first place at the Southeast Regional Bicentennial Youth Debates held in Atlanta, April
9-17. Included in the Southeast region were representatives from the two Carolinas, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. First prize
consisted of a $1000 savings bond, a set of medals, and a trip to the Nationals, to be held in
Washington in June.

Enright formed part of a Davidson team which included Susan Baynard in Persuasive speaking and Mark Gergen in Extemporaneous speaking.
Davidson competitors eliminated before regionals were Gordon Widenhouse and Tony Snow.

Evaluating the competition, Enright commented, “Tony was the toughest until Atlanta. There the competition was quite tough. The second place
finisher was a girl by the name of Mary Ackles, a senior from Springfield College at Alabama. We both finished
6-1 but I beat her on speaker points, 145 to 138. I did beat her in the first round we
had. It was a round robin tournament,” said Enright.

Enright will move onto national competition to be held in Washington D.C. from June 6 to June 10. “First of
all I ought to clarify the fact that there may not even be a debate at nationals, that’s what they
told me. Now either they’ve run out of prize money or they don’t want to hold a final elimination,” he
said. “They didn’t think there would be anything competitive but they didn’t really know. They were supposed to send me
a letter this week with a schedule. It all seems rather shadowy.”

Enright notes that the Bicentennial Debate Resolutions were all historical topics and were considerably superior to “your average run-of-the-mill debate
proposition.” The topics included questions concerning the nature of consumer affairs in a government-regulated economy, the adequacy of political parties,
and the moral consistency of American foreign policy.

-Irv Wilson

PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUE performed at Davidson at Spring Frolic’s Thursday night concert.

Outside Perspectives

CUNY cutbacks

Faced with severely restricting budget reductions, the governing board of the City University of New York recently restructured the University
system, including an end to the open admissions policy and the merger of four colleges into two. The open admissions
policy, part of the system since 1970, guaranteed every local high school graduate a place somewhere in the university. The
move restricted senior college admission to students in the top third of their high school class and community college admission
to the top three-fourths of their high school classes. The university receives almost half of its funding from the City
of New York, which has experienced certain fiscal problems recently. The system’s current budget is seven percent less this year
than last year and the City has threatened to cut off all support within two years.

‘Commie watch’

The Pentagon’s Director of Defense Research and Engineering, Malcolm Currie, has approved a proposal for ‘monitoring and controlling’ students from
communist countries studying “at the more significant laboratories of U.S. technical institutes and universities.” Currie approved a proposal from the
“Task Force on Exports of U.S. Technology,” whose members were governmental officials and senior industrialists.executives. The task force was formed
in 1974 following charges that the Soviet Union was taking advantage of détente by using technological and industrial products to
obtain products and techniques of strategic value. The proposal is part of an overall strategy to prevent communist countries from
obtaining American strategic technology.

Frolics, Black Week termed partial success
By CHUCK JONES
Staff Writer

With Black Week and Frolics both behind, members of the Union Board and Black Student Coalition could sit back and
appraise the efforts that went into the events and the results. According to Union President Karl Goodhouse, both the events
presented at Spring Frolics and the student turnout were good. Goodhouse said that he liked the idea of starting the
weekend on Thursday so everyone could wind up by Saturday night and leave people free on Sunday to catch up
on their work and recuperate from the weekend.

Commenting on the issue of planning Frolics on Easter weekend, Goodhouse said he thought that the planning committees did a
good job in setting activities that wouldn’t interfere with the religious activities on campus or disrupt any activities. Director C.
Shaw Smith said that the only problem was the fact that a lot of people went home for Easter and
this hurt the turnout. Otherwise, Smith was glad to see the issue raised of the attitude toward Easter of a
church-affiliated school. Smith said he backed the faculty’s statement of Easter as a special time, but was unhappy that one
reason the decision was made to schedule Spring Frolics on Easter was because professors wanted to protect their students who
were taking comprehensives.

“If professors are going to make their students study through Easter, I see no reason why they shouldn’t let their
students blow off some steam, too,” said Smith. “I was able to attend several services this weekend, and I was
thankful for all of them. Especially the Sunrise service Easter morning,” said Smith.

Black Student Coalition President Derry Harper said he was satisfied with Black Week in some respects, and disappointed in others.
Harper said he was very disappointed in the student response to Black Week. “The purpose of Black Week was not
to have a series of activities just for blacks. We wanted to present aspects of the black culture which, in
our opinion, reflect some of the richness of the black culture. We wanted the students of Davidson to share in
it and learn from it. That did not happen,” he said.

Some disappointment was expressed concerning the performance of the D.C. Repertory Company. The group danced well but had some problems
with the floor in Love Auditorium. The Company destroyed a number of their costumes on the rough surface and one
dancer hurt her foot so badly she had to be taken to the infirmary. Harper said that he was very
pleased with the planning and execution of the week. He felt that the activities were of very good quality, and
came off as well as could be expected.
