the davidsonian January 30, 1976

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Asst. Sports Editor

Just what is an ‘Eppa Rixey’? Whatever it is, it has been around for four generations, and Eppa Rixey IV
can best be described as team captain and center of the Davidson basketball team.

Rixey reflects on Davidson scene

Described by Coach Brickles as almost “too nice a guy” to play basketball, the 6-9 senior has accomplished the rare
feat of combining the demands of basketball at Davidson with a pre-med major.

“It’s a good goal but (basketball) does hurt your academics. You can do it but you get C-pluses instead of
B’s, and during basketball season it seems like all I do is practice, sleep, and study,” he said.

Recruited by 175 colleges and universities, Rixey chose Davidson over Indiana, Kentucky, and Notre Dame and other top schools. “I
really like the school... especially the intimacy of the campus. During your four years here you get to know everyone
and it seems like a more complete college education.”

Rixey has a penchant for practical jokes when not playing basketball or studying. Much of his freshman year was spent
at the fourth-floor window of Sentelle with a water balloon in one hand and a bucket of water in the
other. As a hall counselor last year he engineered a late-night raid that most coeds will remember for a long
time. “We stole every toilet seat from every girls' dorm and then ran them up the flag pole. I’d have
to say that was the best practical joke I was ever involved in,” he said.

As a freshman, Rixey’s basketball career was critically hampered by a severe shoulder separation that required surgery. The injury occurred
only

Grapplers thwart Campbell: host Lynchburg tomorrow

Davidson wrestlers downed Campbell College 31-21 last Wednesday on the strength of four pins and two decisions. The Wildcats dominated
the match from the beginning, as Ted Mumby picked up his first victory of the season by pinning his opponent.
Brian Jacobs suffered a setback in the 126 lb. bout, but Glenn Ballard pinned his opponent early in the second
period to maintain the Davidson lead. Pat Dulaney had a chance to avenge his loss to his Campbell College adversary
at the Catawba Tourney, but his opponent

Upcoming sports

Women’s Basketball
February 3 - At Washington & Lee (7:30)
February 5 - College of Charleston (7:00)
February 11 - Southern Conference Meet at Guilford (7:00)
February 18 - At Pfeiffer (5:30)
February 21 - N.C. State (5:45)

Wrestling
January 30 - At Wake Forest (5:55)
February 13 - Furman (5:45)
February 14 - Lynchburg (7:00)
February 19 - At Hampden-Sydney
February 27-28 - Charleston, S.C.

Swimming
January 30 - Furman
February 3 - Georgia Tech
February 5 - Citadel
February 11 - At Augusta
February 18 - At Appalachian
February 21 - EmoryDominated the early part of the match and Dulaney was unable to make up for lost time.
Mark Scandling scored five points in the final 20 seconds of his 150-pound bout to gain a 15-5 victory. Kevin
Clancy lost his match at 158 pounds, but Ralph Holloway pinned [See WRESTLERS, page 11].

The U.S. Navy Officer will be on campus Feb. 3, 1976, in the Placement Office. Naval Officers will be on
hand to talk to interested persons concerning Officer Positions in Nuclear Power, Aviation, Supply Corps (business management), Line, Nuclear Power
Instructor, and several scholarship programs. The “New Navy” is for you. LT John GORDON P.O. Box 18568 Raleigh, N.C. 27607
(919) 872-2547 Procurement Team. Drop by and see if EPPA RIXEY in action.

A week before the first game of the season, he feels that he has completely recovered only recently. “It’s taken
basically three years to get over the injury to the point where I can play and feel confident with it,”
he said. Davidson has suffered through a dismal season in Rixey’s final year, but he is still satisfied with the
overall program and remains optimistic about the final few games. “Of course I’m disappointed, but we’ve tried hard and it’s
been one of my most enjoyable seasons because the team gets along so well and is really close. I also
think we’ve got a good shot at the Southern Conference title. I don’t believe it’s so unrealistic...if we get a
couple of things going we could really surprise some people,” he added.

Rixey has played some of the country’s top teams and players like Marques Johnson, Adrian Dantley, and David Thompson throughout
his Davidson career. “After you get over the fact that you are actually playing against them and not watching them
on T.V. it’s alright,” Rixey noted. “They aren’t that different from other teams—they just have more talented players.”

Rixey holds the school record in the high jump and is an accomplished hunter in addition to his basketball achievements.
During his sophomore year, he spent nearly 300 hours constructing an authentic flintlock rifle. The two people who have impressed
Eppa the most in his four years are two who are often the subject of others’ criticisms, Coach Bo Brickles
and Dr. Samuel Spencer. “Dr. Spencer is wholly behind the team and seems to be totally involved in the school.
Granted, you can find fault with anyone, especially when all their decisions are out in the open, but if you
look closer they have a great deal of good things going for them.”

Rixey will either attend dental school or go into business with his father after graduation. He is highly optimistic about
the future of Davidson basketball. “It’s gotta be a good future. Tommy Dore, Hickert, Gerdy, and all the others have
a lot of talent and with some good recruits this year we should have a heck of a future.”

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
