min college society by other means such as insisting upon reasons given for all failures to renew contracts. Then they
tenure, critical years of day of and that at was the rise of their time that since it freedom in
fact guess of cause it public free- to be to rebath are, why expose acts and voice to save the
academic sure the tenured PARDON ME? Of course, CHRISTIAN ENVIRONMENT RULES “THAT ONLY IF ALLOWED TO. And have time for
writing it here and encourage the part of done, and is to take college of the truly acts that until
it begins to understand why it continues to the monument. Williams was in insurance bank clerk. A necessary time for
their means by expression fears, their souls. Definition, a way of their outward of the soul their under- publication, fiction,
diaries can growth, and a way of words. Means of it you get,” Pilgrim at are more January 23, 1976
the davidsonian.

Still other critics contend that tenure does not really do the job of protecting academic freedom for institutions can actually
apply pressure to those with tenure through clandestine and subtle means. An outspoken associate professor can be blocked in promotion
to full professor, or any faculty member speaking or writing unpopular views can have his normal salary increase cut or
eliminated altogether. The Machiavellian administrator can employ these weapons almost with impunity, masking his intentions behind various bureaucratic facades. The
tenured professor who believes that the expression of his scholarly beliefs led to his termination can sue his university for
violation of his academic freedom and breach of contract. Insulted, demeaned, ridiculed and threatened, the courageous and sincere tenured professor
who continues to proclaim what he believes to be the truth at least.

YES, I AM, THE CHRISTIANS EACH WERE, TENURE. Sensitive than most people it is not because their feelings are somehow
more highly activated; it is because they see more. If we see nothing, we have nothing to write about. Somehow
writing becomes its own reward. As we write more, we learn to see better; as we learn to see better,
we write more. None of this can really be taught, but it can be encouraged, and there is no doubt
in my mind that a first step to encouraging more and better student writing is to have a full-time member
of the English department whose specialty is writing. Such a person could devote a substantial portion of his time to
teaching creative writing both on the elementary and advanced levels, and to helping students with expository and argumentative writing as
well. Imagine a department of art which taught courses in art history only; taught courses in the history of music
only. That is almost the position in which we find ourselves in regard to the teaching of writing. There is
no teaching of writing. There is no member of the current department of English whose training has been in the
practice and teaching of writing, and one cannot expect any member of such a department to give the majority of
his time and energy to something he is not professionally trained to do. But the encouragement to write must come
from students as well as faculty. If writers often work in groups, it is because they may give one another
mutual support and constructive criticism. If there is to be more and better writing at Davidson, students will have to
be willing to spend time with one another, sharing their writing, taking the time both to write more and to
listen to others who write. They will have to develop different attitudes toward what writing is and what kinds of
people do it. I began this article by saying that when I was in college I did not write. I
wish I had. Most of the experiences of those years are closed to me now, and I will never have
a record of my thoughts and feelings then. It was not until about 1972 that I began to write with
any regularity, and I believe that the writing I have done has contributed both to my personal and to my
professional life. Writing was one of those things that for fifteen years I had no time for. Now I make
time for it, and I do not think I will ever regret that decision.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

```
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Student apathy: Is it too late?

To the Editor:

I am deeply disturbed. It is not a fleeting depression that one routinely suffers within these hallowed halls, but is
a feeling almost of despair. I fear this letter will be to no avail as letters to the Editor tend
to be overlooked on the editorial page of this newspaper (and I use that term rather loosely). The problem is
a widespread one and is of monumental importance. It affects not only life here at Davidson, but more generally it
is severely damaging the fabric which makes up that hard-to-describe entity that is labeled Davidson College. I am speaking of
a lack of feeling, a lack of caring that seems to pervade existence here. Time was when one could walk
across campus and not be able to pass a fellow student without being greeted with a friendly “Hello.” What happened?
There was once a time at Davidson where knowledge and its pursuit were important for the sake of the mere
achievement of knowledge. Now it seems as if knowledge is merely a means to the end of the almighty grade.
But even this is not the whole point. Students don’t seem to care much about anything anymore. Granted, a few
people get involved, but for the most part nothing is important to the vast majority of Davidson students except a
grade. This deficiency has manifested itself in other areas, variously labeled as lack of spirit, apathy, dullness or even ignorance,
but the fact remains Davidson as the center of learning and, more important, as the center of thinking, is dying,
if, in fact, it has not already died. Am I overreacting? I think not, for if I am even partially
correct in my perception, Davidson as a concept in community and as a fact in academics, is in serious jeopardy.
Examples of this impending disaster abound. Apathy concerning SGA elections, the decline of such “thought-oriented” organizations as the Philanthropic Society,
the general lack of fraternal spirit among students as well as the even more disturbing decline of the spirit of
academic curiosity outside of the classroom are but a few examples. What can be done? A good question in need
of a definitive and quick answer. All of us feel the need to turn within ourselves at some point in
our lives. Many have and are making this self-analysis at college. But when one achieves this understanding, when one (pardon
the cliche) “finds himself,” he owes it to his fellow man to turn outward again to share his understanding of
himself with others, to make a concerted effort to contribute, to become involved in the seeking after wisdom through knowledge
that should be the college. I hope it is not too late for Davidson.

IMAC news: A piece of trash?

To the Editor:

Last week while reading my Davidsonian, I came across the spot usually reserved for IMAC news. In its place I
found a worthless piece of trash. Not only did the columnists, Mr. Combe and Mr. Blackwood, fail to report any
substantial IMAC news, but they engaged in some petty and worthless criticisms of the varsity basketball staff. The IMAC column
is not the place to express these views even in such a “humorous” form. If Mr. Combe and Mr. Blackwood
do not feel that IMAC news is worth reporting, I suggest they hand over their article to more competent writers.
And the next time such an unprofessional column is submitted with the message “print this article as it is or
we quit” I suggest the editor accept the columnists’ resignations.

Charles F. Rice III, ’77

Davidson College

Baskin picks up redhead

To the Editor:

I was very disappointed at the editorial last issue criticizing Bo Baskin’s handling of the election results. As president-elect, he
was placed in a situation with no solution through the sloppiness of other people, and did what was probably the
fairest thing possible. Anyone in his position deserves a lot of credit for accepting the job in the first place,
not only because of the time involved but because it involves dealing with an administration which constantly works against the
students and offers only runarounds when problems or suggestions are brought up. Since Baskin is human there will be severe
limits to what he can do for the students against such doubletalk, but he deserves credit for being concerned enough
to try. In the election situation he considered all alternatives, was conciliating to all, and did his best to act
fairly—notably the exact opposite of the way the Davidson administration does things. If the editor needs something to worry about,
he can look at the front page again and find out why the college president cannot even keep a promise
to appoint assistants to compile a handbook. The student body has elected a good leader, so let’s give him a
little more support. He’ll need all he can get in his position.

Hilton Oliver ’77
```
