December 3, 1976

By GIL HOLLAND
Staff Writer

In a somewhat surprising move, the faculty voted to proclaim Dr. Earl MacCormac’s entrance to the godhead in a meeting spattered with intense emotional outpourings, occasional belching, and frequent bawdy but boring jokes. Although the majority of faculty members slipped away during the early parts of the meeting, mumbling something about Monday night football, the final vote approved MacCormac’s divinity by a count of 4 to 8, with various abstentions and “who cares?”. One vote of protest was lodged by an expectedly jilted English professor who immediately hustled away to the security of his coed-filled “study”. Reached for comment, he replied amidst barely controlled tears: “Fuddidud! All Christ had was Mary Magdalene!”

Dr. MacCormac, aloof throughout the entire meeting, remained so throughout the following interview, but commented, always master of a piercing wit, “Gee, I’m happy as a doodle! Why this is the most exciting day at Davidson since Alan Brinkley left.” Earl later added in an intense undertone, “He never did read all those damn books.”

In a slightly more serious vein, Dr. MacCormac commented that being the Messiah would probably differ little from his existence heretofore. “This isn't the first time students have hinted at my divinity. Who can blame ‘em? I think it was Heraclitus who said, ‘You can fool some of ‘em some of the time, the others don't give a s---!’”

Dr. Spencer was characteristically lukewarm to the idea but commented between serves, “You can’t beat the timing. Look at all the attention that Krishna got. And he was only an imitation Chink. My gosh, the endowment’s bound to go up. This will be the best thing for Christianity since indulgences!” “And besides,” Brother Sam added, grinning after an apparently vicious serve, “I think we beat Williams to it!”

Dr. Sam Maloney, leaving the meeting beaming after somehow getting himself appointed St. Paul to Earl’s Christ, thundered that this was the most exciting day “since World War II”. Bowing his head slightly, but shouting omnisciently nevertheless, “Yes, son, it’s things like this that make us thankful for what the Almighty saw fit to give us. It’s a real blessing to have a few slightly, how do you say, ‘intellectual’ guys on our faculty and someone with such a musical voice as myself to proclaim them.” Fading away, Dr. Maloney sighed, “And there we were, 20,000 feet up, surrounded by flamin’ Zeroes...”

Expectedly, a mass exodus followed.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of mil- 5-Function L.E.D. Watch Silver rhodium finish Yellow-gold plated. (Specify your choice of FINISH) PRICE advertised in TV GUIDE millions of unidentified, glazed-eyed and indistinguishable DCF’ers gathered outside Chambers to celebrate the Second Coming. The president of DCF, the fastest growing group on-campus besides ROTC and illiterates, commented, “Praise the Lord, salvation’s as near as the Big M.” Smiling and spreading numerous “I Found It” pamphlets in Dr. MacCormac’s path as he jogged to Cornelius to spread the Good News in his new angel white warm-up suit, the DCF’ers sang several out-of-date Billy Graham numbers which even Will Terry admitted were “in stinkin’ poor taste.” Dean Terry subsequently paralyzed a reporter with a friendly shoulder clasp, and hurried to change into a more appropriately colored rugby shirt. “Green and blue just wouldn't do for the Ascension, now would it?” he beamed unconvincingly. Zach Long, wheezing at the rear of the procession, could only muster, “But, what will I wear to the Crucifixion?”

Curious as to how this newly discovered Messiahship might affect admissions, The Davidsonian went to the office of H. Edmunds White. As he was recruiting in Florida for the month, we were referred to Mrs. Parnell, who declared, “Admissions? No, you want Dr. Frontis Johnston.” Johnston, after inquiries, referred us to Scotty Nicholls. Muttering something about dogs, Mrs. Nicholls left in a huff. Cornering Chip Stone on the far soccer field, shooting golf with pleasantly “retired” Bo Brickels, he exclaimed, “Cartmill done it!” Cartmill, embarrassed, referred us to Erwin Brawley, in charge of campus grounds, who quickly and appropriately responded, “We don’t do much to attract birds.”

In a further development, Ron Scott, ever perceptive of new trends on campus, cornered Dr. MacCormac with a few stale hamburger buns and cold fishsticks. Slightly irate after initial protestations by Earl, Scott declared, “The least you could do is change it into meatloaf.” Scott, as the reader will remember, is the somewhat stunted mouthpiece of those immortal words, “You can fool some of the people some of the time, but you can feed these students any damn thing and still make a profit.”

Inquiring as to what security measures Dr. MacCormac’s divine status might entail, we were referred to the Davidson police department, operating out of the local 7-11. Captain Hughes, surreptitiously thumbing through a worn magazine in the far corner, replied, “These darn hot dogs just keep gettin’ greasier and greasier.”

In an attempt to get a feel of student reaction to the new faculty development, The Davidsonian met with SGA President Bo Baskin as he ran half-dressed to his 9 o’clock class. “Jeeesus, it makes me hotter’n a cowpoke with a saddle bur. Shee-it, I wish the SGA had thought of it first. How’s about Marc Menchel as Buddha?” Disappearing in a cloud of papers and with an amazingly incessant Georgia-style smile, Baskin said that Earl was nevertheless a “fine man” and he hoped the students would back him, as he cleverly added, “105 percent.”

It is yet unclear exactly what effect the “Incarnation” will have on this small, rural, amazingly backward North Carolina town. One townsperson commented that “them professors have always been a little tainted in the haid.” But, for the majority of students and faculty alike, Dr. MacCormac’s Messiahship will probably cause as little a ripple in the Davidson community as the recent election. As Rush Otey put it, “I shoulda been a doctor,” or in the words of an atrophied student recently unearthed in the bowels of the Rare Book Room, “Shut the hell up! I've got a f---in’ review tomorrow!”