The Davidsonian
October 8, 1976

Personal doubts, fears expressed
By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

Senior year, its own frustrations

The world is a very confusing place. As individuals, we face our own combinations of doubts and fears. Because Davidson
College is a place where there are many highly individual people, getting a general consensus on personal frustrations is difficult.
How do some students feel about the anxieties of life at Davidson?

Most people seem to feel that their sophomore year was their worst. However, freshman year seems to call for its
own set of frustrations. One student put it this way, “As a freshman, I expected too much and tried too
hard. The frustration comes from these expectations.”

Sophomore year makes things worse instead of better for many people. A senior psychology major simply said, “Sophomore year was
the pits.” A junior added, “My sophomore year was probably the worst year of my life.”

Home will never be the same

These people cited personal reasons as the main cause compounded by other factors. A senior put it this way, “The
initial excitement of college life has worn off. Plus, you suddenly realize that your home will never be the same
since you've been away for a while. But the really big hassle for many people is deciding their major.”

Generally, during the junior year, life improves for most people. One learns to operate within the system of Davidson, and
the particular worries of senior year seem far away. One junior described it this way, “First of all, you suddenly
realize you are halfway through. You are also much more free to take courses you like and really get into
your major. In addition, there seems to be a change of attitude in students and professors toward each other. Professors
begin to see you less as a high school juvenile, and they seem to be more human and less pompous,”
he added.

A senior pre-med disagreed, “I had fun my first two years. Junior year I had to start worrying about getting
into med school. I’ve been really frustrated by a lack of guidance in a time when I’ve needed it most.”

Worry is about what’s going to happen after graduation—for me it's med school, for some of my friends it’s simply
a job,” said one senior. Another senior observed, “Another big disappointment is knowing fewer and fewer people on campus.”

Students listed many aspects of life which frustrated them. Some are peculiar to Davidson; some are more universal. “If we
weren't so academically frustrated we wouldn’t be so socially frustrated,” declared one student. Another individual expressed his observations on the
situation in more depth, “Everything here at Davidson is focused inward. This is the whole world; your existence becomes your
grades and classroom experiences. There are mirrors where there should be windows, and it causes you to lose your perspective
on the rest of the world,” he said.

Handbook completed
By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

The Hourly Staff Handbook, a statement of college hiring, firing, and promotion practices affecting the some 150 hourly paid staff
workers and their supervisors, was distributed to all concerned on Tuesday, Oct. 5. Robert Stephenson, Director of Personnel and Administrative
Services and the coordinator of the project, described the handbook as “an effort to bring existing policies together into one
booklet,” a “communications device.”

The main body of material included is either a summary of the procedures which have already been in practice but
which have not been codified, or is a restatement of policies that have previously been distributed in booklet form to
Davidson College employees. The Grievance Procedure, as an adaptation of the Title IX civil rights statute, is a clear example.Here
is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of an already existing college policy which had never been produced in written form. This procedure is a statement of
what the employees can expect from “Almighty Grade.” Another student added, “I don’t think students at larger universities where I’ve
been are as frustrated because they have more outlets to express themselves. People here are too obsessed with the Almighty
Grade to care about anything else.” There are as many individual frustrations as there are people at Davidson. Most people
do seem to feel that the college hasn’t done and isn’t doing enough to help. Two seniors said that the
way to “solve” the frustration problem is not to ever, “If you don’t have expectations you stop striving for any
goals which is frustrating in itself.” “Part of what’s good about Davidson and part of what’s bad about Davidson,” observed
an English major, “is that we are left on our own to muddle through our problems the best way we
can.”

Relief! | FRUSTRATED! -Hunter Jennings

the College in terms of rectification of grievances. The remainder of the three sections of the handbook dealing with Conditions
of Employment, Compensation and Related Policies, and Employee Benefits are all re-presentations of College practices already in effect. Due to
be completed in the fall of 1975, the Handbook was postponed for a year as a result of Stevenson's other
obligations. In commenting on the delay, Stevenson said, “I wanted it (the Handbook) as badly as anyone; it was just
a matter of priorities. We finally had some time to get it together this summer, and I’m glad.” And he
added, “It’s good to have it so it can be seen and understood.” The compilation of the Handbook was taken
on by Stevenson as an additional project. Typed and processed primarily by the secretaries themselves, the finished report was read
and approved by College President, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr., before distribution.

Belk Senators
Ralph H. Yielding
Guy DiCenzo
Randy Hanes

Richardson Senator
Bob Lapple

Little Senator
Dana English

Cannon Senator
Bill Peeples

Sentelle Senator
Hans Watford

Duke Senator
Jim Clark

Off-Campus Senators
Clark Candler
Carol Connor
Will Miller
Rick Rauck

IT'S NOT TOO LATE
FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES - NO OBLIGATION - CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
INDIVIDUAL SPORTS - SCHOLARSHIPS
MARKSMANSHIP, SCUBA
ALL STUDENTS JR AND SR YEARS
TRY ROTC THIS TERM - LEARN LEADERSHIP, SKIING, COMMUNICATIONS,
COURSE CREDIT JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARS - CASH PAYMENTS OF $100 PER MONTH
CONTACT THE ROTC DEPARTMENT AT 336 or 337

[Continued from page 1]

Rick Rauck explained to the Davidsonian that he has been trying to move off campus since the beginning of the
year, but that his landlord has continually delayed completing necessary renovations. He feels he should be moving soon. Rees discovered
on election day that Rauck was still living on campus, but decided to allow him to run as an off-campus
senator. “I could not let him run as a dorm senator and I could have just told him to stifle
his political ambitions for his situation,” explained Rees. Rauck did not actually inform Rees of his situation, explaining that he
could not find Rees. Baskin commented, “Maybe that’s negligence but I thought it went without saying that we take him
at his word. I didn’t want to deny him a chance to run.” There were no candidates who filed to
run as Watts dorm senator, probably due to poor publicity. Two students interested in running said they were unaware of
the election until after the filing deadline. The SGA is considering a special “in-dorm referendum” in Watts next week. The
winner of the referendum would then be appointed by the Senate.
