September 17, 1976

The Davidsonian

... extended studies ended

[Continued from page 1]

he said. "But you can do superior work on an independent basis during the first two years, and it’s worth
taking the risk."

Epes cited several possible reasons for the recommendation to abandon Extended Studies. "There are two major ones," he said. "One
is the widespread rumors that the work is shabby, which it sometimes is."

"The reason we get some poor projects is that some people can’t find a course during add-drop and have to
throw something together fast to make a third course," said Epes. "A lot of the criticism is built on misinformation.
I see the contracts and I know the projects are good. I make it open to anyone who wants to
come see the contracts, and in the last two years no one has," he said.

Epes believes the faculty sponsors of projects do not exercise enough control over the students, allowing for poor or rushed
work. "The second reason is faculty time," he said. "They (faculty members) can say no. I ask the faculty not
to take more than two projects, but a lot of people find it hard to say no. And some people
feel ethically obligated to carry more than their load."

Epes also feels the supposed cost of the program was considered as a reason for termination. Extended Studies is budgeted
$2500 a year, and over half that goes to upperclassmen doing research projects, according to Epes. "We used the program
to sell the school and then we axe the program. We use it in the catalog to sell Davidson, and
in recruiting," Epes said. "If we did not have the program we would be placing a very unfortunate restriction on
our students," he said.

"One irony of the whole thing is that we got a substantial grant from Mellon (The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation)
and one of the things backing up the grant was funds for summer training for teachers of Extended Studies," said
Epes. The Mellon Foundation awarded Davidson a $230,000 grant for increased opportunities for faculty development. The funds are to be
used to allow for exchange programs with other colleges, both on the student and the faculty level, for the improvement
of the Honors College and the...

PE alterations

[Continued from page 1]

the money was not being collected he referred the Davidsonian to Couch. Couch stated, "Students aren’t being held accountable for
what is stolen," to which Stone and Martin both agreed. Martin noted that students are gone for the summer by
the time all losses are identified, making collection difficult.

Blame for the losses in equipment is leveled at outsiders and students alike. Stone responded to the question of whether
or not this implicated the honor system by commenting, "With $5,000 worth of equipment stolen last year, what do you
think? For the large majority the system does work but there are those who chose to outfit themselves from our
supplies."

Humanities programs, and for summer preparation for professors teaching Extended Studies. $18,000 is to be awarded to the Extended Studies
Program, according to Epes. Each year for three years six individual professors...will be chosen to receive grants of $1000 each.

3

New Infirmary hours effective this year: Mon.-Sat. 3:30 p.m.-5:30 p.m. and Sun. 6:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m.

Publications postponed
By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson College has had more than its share of problems with its publications. Among these troubles, two of the most
notable have flared up in its not very annual annual and its tardy literary magazine.

The history of the Quips and Cranks has become a subject of much interest to the Davidson community. As of
yet, neither the 1975 nor the 1976 annuals have been published. Even so, work has begun on a third annual
which will make its appearance in 1977.

Due to a “lack of responsibility” on the part of the editor, the annual was not published during 1975. This
lack can be described as a failure of the editor to perform his prescribed functions. At the time of the
deadline, little of the organizational work required had been completed. According to Sue McAvoy, editor of the 1977 annual, “he
just left town and took most of the copy and pictures with him.” With the passage of time, some vital
pieces of material were lost, making publication difficult.

Meanwhile, Alumni Director Zachary Long took over production. Since assuming this position, he has maintained that only one stumbling block
remains in the way of publication. He claims that the 1975 annual would be ready for the presses, “if the
1975 fraternities and social organizations would furnish their pictures.”

The 1976 annual, not to be confused with the 1975 annual, will be completed and distributed to the students this
October. Sue McAvoy strongly maintained that she was “sure that the 1976 annual would be distributed on time.”

Though not as dramatic as the saga of the Quips and Cranks, the Miscellany has had its misfortunes. The Miscellany
did produce its scheduled two issues last year, although the second issue is very late. The second issue is presently
being distributed. It was due last spring. According to Chip Crawford, editor of the Miscellany, “the delay was due to
some unfortunate irregularities with the actual printers in Washington, D.C.” He added that “Moreland Hogan, our typesetter at Briar Patch
Press did an excellent job and was in no way responsible for the delay.” Supposedly, this year’s issues will be
coming out on schedule.

---

IT'S NOT TOO LATE

FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES - NO OBLIGATION - CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION INDIVIDUAL SPORTS - SCHOLARSHIPS - LEARN LEADERSHIP, SKIING, COMMUNICATIONS,
MARKSMANSHIP, SCUBA - COURSE CREDIT JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARS - CASH PAYMENTS OF $100 PER MONTH FOR ALL STUDENTS JR
AND SR YEARS

TRY ROTC THIS TERM
CONTACT THE ROTC DEPARTMENT AT 336 or 337

---

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
