the davidsonian

October 8, 1976

Dorm crowding

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

“... Davidson is a residential college, i.e., all students are required to live in college residence halls unless officially excused,” — 1976-77 Catalog

The seven residence halls house approximately four of the students at Davidson. Over 300 people live in other facilities, ranging from nearby perimeter housing to apartments and houses in Davidson, Cornelius, and at Lake Norman.

With almost 300 of its students living away from residence halls, can Davidson truthfully call itself a residential college?

“I believe that it can,” says College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.

“The college-owned perimeter housing is certainly close enough to be called ‘on campus.’ Add those rooms to the residence halls’ total, and you will find that less than 200 are living off-campus—almost all of them by their own choice,” said Spencer.

Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls doubts that the perimeter facilities are truly on-campus.

“The houses on the edge of campus and across the street are removed from the mainstream,” Nicholls said.

“I think the College should get out of the business of perimeter housing for students.”

Nicholls has in recent years been called upon to squeeze more students into Davidson’s crowded living facilities.

The process has been one of piecemeal additions—another renovated townhouse opens a dozen spaces, the basement of Carnegie House is remodeled and 10 students move in, #6 Jackson Court is reworked to hold four more—these are examples of recent efforts to make room for students.

Proposed Dorm
Nicholls has in mind a solution that will end the student housing crunch and will bring more students back on campus to live.

“It’s not my decision, of course, but my wish is that the College would build a new dormitory, along the lines of the one proposed in 1972.”

Four years ago, the College brought in a famous architect to design a dormitory.

Plans were drawn and sketches of the proposed building were made. The dorm, housing 200, was multi-level, low and rambling, with provisions for smaller unit living and more common use areas (lounges, kitchens, etc.). Construction costs were estimated at 2 million dollars.

“The price was too high,” said Spencer.

“To pay for the construction, we would have been forced to raise rental rates $1000 per student.”

Nicholls proposes that costs to the student could be defrayed by opening the new building in the summer to revenue-collecting educational conferences and academic programs like the July Experience.

Another factor counting against the dorm was the “move off-campus” trend of the late sixties and early seventies.

“In the spring of 1971 we had to deny many requests that students made to live off-campus,” said Dean of Students Will Terry.

“If they’d all been allowed to move off, many dorm rooms would have been empty. The move-off trend has reversed now, but no one knows if it will recur,” said Terry.

“There was a time,” Nicholls commented, “when moving off-campus meant gaining more freedom. I don’t think that’s true now.

“There would be enough students to fill a new dorm if it were built,” she said.

HIGH BUILDING costs prevented this dormitory from becoming a reality.

First in a series on housing at Davidson

Housing Ignored

Spencer confirmed that improved housing is not listed as a priority in the College’s sesquicentennial development program.

Nicholls admitted that she was “very disappointed that housing was not mentioned as a priority.”

“If someone wants to give us the money to build a new dorm, we would certainly do so,” said Spencer.

The College will not, however, actively seek such funds.

media board:

[Continued from page 1]

be on the board because of a conflict of interest,” he said. “But then no one really knows the make-up and operation of a publication except the editor.”

He did say that when the appointments were made the board would probably consist of some “qualified newspaper people.”

Baskin said he hoped the board would be in operation in time for the coming election but he was somewhat concerned because of a shortage of time. The faculty has to elect one member for the board, and they don’t meet again until November.

He did indicate that if the board was not in operation by the election the present Publications Board, which consists of all present editors, would serve in the interim.

“The student media board is a good compromise, a good way of satisfying all the needs of the community—the legal needs of the college and the freedom of press for students,” Baskin concluded.

CONTRACEPTION.
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING

EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS

LIBRARY
FILMS

@

Oct. 11
welcome to come.

NAME

900 ROOM SPECIAL

Pickled Egg Eating Contest

Tuesday, Oct. 12 — 9 pm
First Prize-$15.00

Second Prize-A Jar of Pickled Eggs

Persons interested in entering contest should fill out entry slip and drop slip into one of the yellow ballot boxes in Richards or Bailey Houses or the Snack Bar. Five contestants will be chosen to compete.

Everyone is

DORM & ROOM

PHONE OR EXT.

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

D. C. POP FILMS
PRESENTS:

20th Century Fox presents

GEORGE KARL
C. SCOTT/MALDEN

Omar N. Bradley

in “PATTON”
A FRANK MCCARTHY:
FRANKLIN J. SCHAFFNER PRODUCTION

FRANK MCCARTHY: FRANKLIN J. SCHAFFNER
FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA & EDMUND H. NORTH

Based On factual Material from

“PATTON: ORDEAL AND TRIUMPH” &
LADISLAS FARAGO and “A SOLDIER'S STORY”
by OMAR N. BRADLEY

JERRY GOLDSMITH COLOR BY DELUXE

GP

Friday, Oct. 8
8 & 11 pm
$1.00 — Love