February 13, 1976

Washburn sets fifth record; Tankers split two

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

The Davidson College swimming team continued to be a showcase for the talents of Jonathan Washburn as the squad defeated
Augusta and lost to Appalachian State last week. The Wildcats completely dominated the events against Augusta and won 67-44 despite
forfeiting 16 points in the diving events. Washburn had two individual victories, including a new school record in the 1000-yard
Freestyle. Washburn now holds five school records and is the leading scorer for Davidson this season. Skip Barkely also had
two firsts, and Ken Norwood had one of his stronger performances of the year, winning the 200-yard Breaststroke in 2:37.4.

“For once we were stronger than the opposing team and I think it was really good for the kids to
swim like that,” said Coach Pat Drake.

Davidson's record dropped to 4-7 when Appalachian State crushed the Wildcats 59-36 without using many of their top swimmers. Appalachian
placed first in nine of eleven events. Washburn picked up the sole individual Davidson victory. The only other Davidson first
place came in the 400-yard Free Relay where Ron Owens, Norwood, Tom Horn, and John Frederick combined for a victory.

“Appalachian State has several scholarship swimmers and could have scored as many points as they wanted. But they used a
lot of their second-string swimmers and gave them a chance to compete,” Drake explained.

Davidson’s final regular season meet will be here against Emory tomorrow. A Wildcat victory would give the team a 5-7
record, one of the best Davidson swimming records in several years.

“We've really been pleased with the season because in the meets we had a reasonable chance to win,” commented Drake.

Sidelines with Banta

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

Editor’s note: These opinions are not necessarily ascribed to by the editorial staff.

Over the last fifteen years, Davidson’s basketball team has been able to compete, more often than not, with any team
in the country. Unfortunately, for the time being anyway, that day has passed. The decline of Wildcat basketball can be
easily seen in Davidson's games with Notre Dame the last three seasons. The Irish from South Bend have been one
of the nation’s top teams in the last decade, being led by such stars as Austin Carr, John Shumate, and
their present leader, Adrian Dantley.

Just two short years ago, the Wildcats, then led by John Falconi and Mike Sorrentino, ventured onto the Irish’s home
court when they held down the nation’s...

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. • 892-0208

STEAKS and CHOICE WINES
FAMOUS PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI • CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
BEERS
315-7449
18% W. MOREHEADNumber two ranking in both polls. Those 1973-74 Davidson Cagers played their ranked hosts a very close game
before bowing 95-84. In the second encounter between the two schools, Notre Dame came to the Charlotte Coliseum with the
nation’s leading scorer, Sophomore Adrian Dantley. Although the Wildcats were having their worst season in 16 years (Davidson was 5-19
in the 1959-60 season), they managed to stay close to the Irish in the first thirty minutes. It was Notre
Dame’s overbearing strength combined with Dantley’s 38 points that spelled defeat for the home team, 89-73.

“WHAT CAN I SAY?” Mike (Bruno) Sorrentino, former Davidson standout, talks to fans during the VMI game.

Cagers fall

For Davidson, the not-so-slow fall from the national scene hit what was hopefully rock bottom last Saturday when Notre Dame
and Davidson clashed for the third time at South Bend. The Irish had no trouble winning 117-74. Davidson knew it
was in trouble when Tommy Dore, who had scored six of the Wildcats’ first eight points, picked up his third
personal foul with 14:44 left in the first half. Eppa Rixey quickly joined his teammate in foul trouble, leaving only
Pat Hickert and Jim Rice to battle Dantley, Dave Batton, Toby Knight, and a host of others on the boards.
Davidson’s shorter lineup had no chance against the 12th ranked Irish. The Wildcats were up 16-13 before foul trouble struck
with 13:00 left in the first half. Notre Dame then outscored Davidson by 24 the rest of the half to
stake a 57-36 lead. With a 21-point edge at halftime, the second half was just a formality. The Irish were
led in scoring as usual by Dantley with 29, who played just 31 minutes. Duck Williams netted his career high
with 24 points after coming off the bench. High rebounder for the Indiana boys was Toby Knight, also a non-starter,
with ten. Davidson was led by John Gerdy with 16, and Jay Powell added 14. Pat Hickert played an inspired
game, coming off the bench to score 12 and grab seven rebounds.

GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION

Guide to more than 250,000 Scholarships and Financial Aid Sources — items valued at over $500 million dollars. Contains the
most up-to-date information on: Scholarships, grants, aids, fellowships, loans, work-study programs, cooperative education programs, and summer job opportunities; for study
at colleges, vocational and technical schools, paraprofessional training, community or two-year colleges, graduate schools, and postgraduate study or research; funded
on national, regional, and local levels by the federal government, states, cities, foundations, corporations, trade unions, professional associations, fraternal organizations,
and minority organizations. Money is available for both average as well as excellent students, both with and without need.

BENNETT PUBLISHING CO.
Dept. 214, 102 Charles Street, Boston, Mass, 02114.

Please rush me ____ copies of GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION at $5.95 plus 50c for postage and handling
for each copy. I am enclosing $__________. (check or money order).

Name
Address
City
State

© Copyright 1976 Bennett Publishing Co.
