Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

December 10, 1976

The Davidsonian

IP’s reflect on folly, fulfillment

By ANN GARNER
Staff Writer

As one listens to the now more prevalent and frequent knocks on doors up-and-down halls, gasps as one looks into
the bathroom mirror finding it trimmed in brightly colored paper, and is amazed at the barrage of smiling faces on
rainy Tuesday nights, it’s almost impossible not to wonder what’s going on. No, not quite the Christmas spirit, it’s election
fever and although our attention is focused towards the candidates, the charges made and felt by the present officers must
not be ignored as they now leave offices.

Baskin

Upon taking office, Bo Baskin, SGA President, found that he became more directed towards student relations than those specifically on
the Senate level. Becoming necessary to broaden his outlook to the fundamental interest of Davidson College, he discovered this was
sometimes his only solace when “caught between a rock and a hard place” in dealing with students, faculty, and administration.
Baskin had no specific crusades in mind in running yet tackled such projects as course evaluation and a reevaluation of
student life in taking over as SGA president. Though not as fulfilling in the sense of still unfinished projects, Baskin
feels that the frustration involved, in those times when having to subordinate academics and hall counseling, and when accused of
being a “sellout” by students themselves, has helped him to grasp the full scope of Davidson College from all aspects
involving the administration, as a student, and in faculty relations. Baskin explained that although the term was frequently a “catch-all,”
having held office has helped him “grow-up” by being held responsible for the maintenance of communication, in delegating authority, and
in facing the frequent obstacles that the office of SGA president has entailed.

Matthew Covington

Matthew Covington, editor of The Davidsonian, found that The Davidsonian provided him with an opportunity to investigate the things that
interest him in being able to “deal within the system” that was previously dealt to him. Covington feels that The
Davidsonian is fulfilling by the very fact of creating something each week. “You look at it as a creation but
also a production, which tends to bring you down to earth.” In imagining himself as running a “small organization,” Covington
discovered that it was often necessary to “act the part.” “You have to refuse to accept your own inadequacies,” Covington
explained, “You need to be a responsible authority figure.” Covington expressed the desire to throw editorial decisions out to be
made by the staff. “It doesn’t really work, though, it leads to mayhem, or mayhem, in the days of Title
IX.” “If I had to do it all over again,” Covington pondered, “I would ask for a suit of armor
for Christmas.” “As much help as I get before publication, I get far more help afterwards. It’s often times painful
and sharp and with a suit, I’d be better able to fend off such ‘help’.”

Karl Goodhouse

Karl Goodhouse, President of the Union Board, discovered his work on individual programs to be more time-consuming, out of choice,
than expected. Dealing with the general coordination of the Union program in both social and co-curricular activities, his office’s main
goal is to make the Union a more vital force in campus life. Upon taking office Karl planned to accomplish
this objective by creating a basic Union structure that would allow people the freedom to influence Union activities, increase emphasis
on co-curricular events and to revamp the Artists Series to reflect the interests of faculty, staff, and students. Goodhouse sees
this past year as personally satisfying in terms of the changes he has experienced by merely working.with a greater number
and variety of people. He has adopted several philosophies. "You can’t be a perfectionist," he says, "you have to set
your sights realistically or low and expect to accomplish half of it." Goodhouse reflected this self-preservationism when asked what advice
he would give to his successor. Goodhouse responded, "Abdicate."

Steve Peeples

As co-curricular chairman of the Union Board, Steve Peeples was surprised to find that his job entailed more than just
finding the best entertainment for the best price. He found that it was necessary to be sensitive to people’s views
in terms of the size, atmosphere, and attitudes of Davidson as well as fulfilling the purpose of his office in
the real extension of academics into "real life." Peeples set out to create a balance of artistic media while fulfilling
the wants of the entire Davidson community in a "systematic, sensible, and well-planned" manner. Peeples sees his role as more
successful than evidenced to the "outsider," having seen and dealt with problems only experienced by the "insider," and has found
his office "extremely rewarding in terms of anonymous gratification when something is well presented and received." Becoming more tolerant of
people in administration and their problems, Peeples has discovered that "a learning experience outside of the classroom is not just
a cliché."

John McArthur

Becoming president of the YMCA, unopposed, John McArthur took office with the sole conviction that the Y should be a
"vital part of Davidson," finding "something missing without it in terms of student life." The goals of the Davidson Y
were defined soon after his election during a retreat and were concerned with involvement in community programs, social-spiritual aspects of
Davidson on campus, and educational activities. McArthur holds the conviction that "there is really no such thing as student apathy
but rather it is the non-enthusiasm of the leaders that makes it hard for students to become involved." McArthur sees
his job as president fulfilling in the sense of having to initiate many programs and finds that it fosters maturity—and
anxiety in the sense "if anything’s gonna go, you're the one." Yet he attributes the bulk of the Y’s success
to its "informal and playful atmosphere." Because of this, McArthur states, "You do it because you like it, not because
you’re going to get recognized. This makes it easier to work in—or play in—whatever."

Jack Golden

Having occupied his position as station manager for WDAV for almost two years, Jack Golden was faced with many problems
when first taking office. Aside from repairing the splintered WDAV staff, Golden’s main goals were to go stereo and to
concentrate on adding continuity to programming. He feels that he has been partially successful in this attempt, calling the 7
am to 3 pm program a hodgepodge while having organized the evening hours. Although finding the office extremely rewarding personally
in working with a great many people and projects and realizing his capacity for work, Golden expressed some disappointment in
having only partially elevated the status of WDAV from its regarded position as "second-media." He attributes this to the fact
that it was relegated to "second rank" with lack of time being regarded as the major reason. Golden is not
leaving the office, however, without fond memories.

Election Pictures

Ask A Friend About

THOM YOUNG

Irv Wilson For SGA President

Thanks to all who helped with the CROP Thanksgiving fast day. The total collected was $860.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

It's Christmas season at the Peregrine House. Share a bottle of wine with a friend for Christmas. We have fine
German, Italian, and California wines by the bottle or gift-boxed. Stop in and see or call us at 892-8686.
