the davidsonian

November 12, 1976

60's provoke KKK to call Davidson Communist hot-bed

By ANN GARNER
Staff Writer

In the 1960s, student unrest and violence prevailed throughout the country. Despite every evidence to the contrary, Davidson College was labeled during the late 1960s as being a "hot bed of communism" by none other than the Ku Klux Klan.

In a time when Vietnam was coming to the forefront, when escalation in war activities was beginning, and when social ferment was the "fashion," the term communism was thrown out upon various organizations in a somewhat haphazard manner.

The Ku Klux Klan was particularly well-known for their suspicion of institutions of higher learning and especially the "liberal" professors who spoon-fed ideas into the brains of their young, college-bound sons and daughters.

However, there were several occurrences at Davidson during this period that could very well have served as roots for such twisted accusations.

In what might be considered direct confrontation with KKK convictions, Davidson in 1961 became the first private college in N.C. to accept black students.

According to then Dean of Students, Dr. Richard Burts, however, integration was both expected and inevitable, being followed soon after by the similar actions of both Wake Forest and Duke.

Another point of controversy arose in the mid-1960s when the N.C. legislature passed, without warning, the Speaker Ban Law. This law stated in effect that no person associated with the Communist Party would be allowed to speak before students attending a public university or college.

In response, a number of Davidson professors became involved in seeking the Speaker Ban Law's repeal as it affected the notion of academic freedom and the entire concept of liberal education.

Compared to other private and public faculties in N.C., Davidson professors were more active and instrumental. According to Dr. Burts, state professors were somewhat hesitant because of the possibility of receiving direct political recrimination. The efforts of Davidson professors resulted in the law's eventual repeal.

DR. PATTERSON feels KKK’s claim absurd.

In contrast to strong faculty participation in political affairs, the Davidson student body of the 1960s was often characterized as a "hot bed of student rest" in relationship to other student activities elsewhere. Many speakers were imported who encouraged Davidson students to become more politically active and interested.

There were occasions where students took an active, visible interest in political affairs, though usually participating in small numbers. Yet, it is generally recognized that most Davidson students were, according to Dr. J. B. Stroud, "part of the establishment" and therefore took a more subdued interest in political affairs.

Their participation took the form of "responsible protest" usually without a great deal of disruption and showing consideration for others. Perhaps the better term would be "polite" protest.

In the late '60s, however, Davidson barbershop practices were brought to the surface, arousing a great deal of student protest. The Davidson barbershops were run by black men who refused from the economic standpoint to cut the hair of black people during business hours.

Upon discovering this fact, the pickets descended and the student protestors fired with the enthusiasm of healing a grave injustice. They organized a protest in front of Ralph Johnson's barbershop.

They succeeded but within a short period of time Ralph Johnson, with the advent of long hair coupled with local refusal to obtain haircuts where black heads were cut, was forced to close his shop.

Clearly, the evidence points to the fact that "liberalism" primarily among professors was then equated with "communism" in the eyes of the KKK. The idea that Davidson College was ever a "hot bed of communism" is, as Dr. Burts described, "preposterous."

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Come browse

Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mack & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville