---

October 22, 1976

STUDENT OPENING of the Fall Major Drama Production, “The College Widow,” is Thursday, October 28, in Hodson Hall; admission is
$1.00 to students with ID.

By CHUCK STILL
Staff Writer

Is Davidson beset with mindless frivolity? This and other questions will be answered on October 28, when the Davidson College
Drama Department will begin its 1976-77 season with the student opening performance of “The College Widow.”

“The College Widow,” written by George Ade in 1904 and adapted by Rupert Barber into the 1920s, is a comedy
with music built around the football rivalry between a small Presbyterian school Atwater and their Baptist rivals.

Atwater College, scene of the play, should not be seen as a model of Davidson College in the Twenties, though
there are many parallels between the two, such as being small and Presbyterian. Atwater is not Davidson, just as our
concept of the Roaring Twenties does not really reflect the actual nature of the third decade.

“College Widow” promises fun

But if one has fun envisioning parallels between the two, do so, for this is a fun play, and though
it doesn’t create an image of the mindless frivolity remembered as the Twenties (flappers and what-not), the play should be
seen as an evening of entertainment, a night of fun and not a realistic picture of anything.

As Director Rupert Barber says, “Last year we of the Drama Department took on projects which required rather intensive preparation.
‘Widow’ should be fun not only for the audience but for the cast also.”

This concept of a fun evening pervades the production to the point that the cast is learning the Charleston and
that the set is designed to resemble the bright delightful John Held Jr. cartoons which adorned the covers of so
many magazines of the Twenties.

Hopefully this night of fun concept will even leak into the audience and leave us all a light bright.

...So who has time to read? Colette explores life’s meaninglessness

By KATHY LONG
Staff Writer

It’s a shallow, shallow life—a farce, a masquerade. Half-friends and half-lovers smile hollowly in greeting in a world where only
the superficial is real. Their lifetimes slowly drone out, too trivial to sustain any intensity of purpose or emotion.

Cheri and The Last of Cheri—in these two books Colette explores life’s meaninglessness in a way which is original enough
to give fresh impetus to a theme which has not yet lost its pertinence and controversy, even after countless men
have wrestled with it for countless years.

Cheri and The Last of Cheri are both contained under the same cover, but they should, in my opinion, be
considered as two distinct books, the second of which builds on the theme of the first.

Although the characters of both books have the same names and the same superficial biographies, it is difficult to see
any psychological progression in the outlooks of the two main characters, Lea and Cheri. In fact, it is virtually impossible
to find a thread of mental development in the first book that justifies either Lea’s decay or Cheri’s mental anguish
in the second.

Cheri, the first of the two books, deals with Lea in greatest depth. She is a middle-aged courtesan—still quite beautiful,
but feeling a painful and hopeless fear of fast-approaching old age. Why? Because all she knows of the world is
its external trappings; her life is built on appearance, on sensation.

Lea has no god higher than Appearance. The little comforts with which she surrounds herself—the lovers, the fine wines, the
filmy negligees—are all-important, and her relationship to them is completely superficial.

Lea had had a long succession of lovers, none of whom meant more to her than an ornament—until Cheri. Yet,
even with Cheri, Lea can never be completely natural. She must always feel that she is in control of the
situation around her and the feelings others have toward her.

So she manipulates minds in a subtle way to keep up her trivial facade; no one, least of all Cheri,
must ever know that she has any weaknesses or that she is growing old.

Cheri, himself, is the son of a “light woman,” who is a contemporary of Lea and has known a very
similar life. Cheri’s mother and Lea are, in fact, old cronies/enemies. (There is no real distinction between the two relationships
in the world of the “light people.”)

As a result of his upbringing, Cheri grew up with an outlook toward life that seems peculiar at first—until one
realizes how startlingly familiar his view of life is. Life is so much a game to Cheri that he does
not look below its surface until he has lived almost thirty years.

In the first book, Cheri is incapable of delving beneath life’s facades. Even after a passionate return to his lover,
Lea, he cannot see any further than her external attributes (...perhaps because there is nothing to see?). He leaves her
again. He cannot see his idealized youthful lover in this aging woman.

In The Last of Cheri, the second of Colette’s two books, the focus is on Cheri. He has begun to
peer more closely at life and finds that it is filled with nothing. The Last of Cheri deals with his
tortured search to find something to fill the void he feels around him and within him, but he comes always
to the same thing. Nothing.

(If you would like to know something about a book before tackling it yourself—or if you would simply like another
opinion about a book you’ve already read—send your suggestions to me in W112. I’ll appreciate it...)

---

ELECTION AND REFERENDUM RESULTS

Watts Dorm Senator
Nancy Catron 25
Sara Stoneburner 20

Union By-Laws
Approved 370 (87%)
Disapproved 54 (13%)

Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Approved 361 (92%)
Disapproved 33 (8%)

---
