December 17, 1976

The Davidsonian

IMAC basketball debuts, Ta-ta’s extend their merriment

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

IMAC basketball made its debut last week before a sparse crowd of cheering chumps as SPE spanked the spunk out
of The House, 24-21. Raucous Rick Kelly led SPE with four fouls, although “Cro-Magnon” Starkey Sharpe came on to collect
three of the goobers in the second half. While the chumps were cheering, M&M was smearing Nag’s Nymphs, 14-13. Susan
“The Ghost” Casper had the hots for the hoops and managed to net five of them. The biggest disappointment was
when Sara “Sweetpea” Stoneburner failed to connect on her fabled “Sneaker Snack” play.

Down at the Home Boys, otherwise known as Black Buck’s Horde from the Truckstop, axed Max Relax, 51-21. Pat “The
Pompoms” Dulany not only fouled out with many a point for the Boys, but the refs also slapped him with
a well-deserved T. We agree with the refs that chewing tobacco on the court was uncalled for, and that the
foul line was no place for a spittoon. Pat, who did you think was going to clean up that mess,
Renpeck Newton?

Lipshitz strutted on the court against Der Lix as if they were peacocks parading past provocative peakers. Instead, they came
off looking like rejects from the “Mush Mouth” Mariano Pachetti Fan Club. Der Lix chewed on Lipshitz to the tune
of 29-16. “Pumpkin” Pete Johnson led Der Lix with twelve field goal attempts. Unfortunately, he did not make any of
them.

Hundreds of gambling students watched with horror as the heavily favored Chocolate Speedway fell prey to Sloppy Seconds, 25-24. The
sporadic Speedway actually held a halftime lead, but Rick “Boo Boo” Bateman scored nine points in the second half to
hand Sloppy Seconds the unexpected victory. Those of you who bet and lost your meal tickets on the game are
invited to our office tonight for a warm dish of crow.

Enough of this nonsense, for this is the Caroling Season, and we should all be merry! So go kick a
professor, flunk a review, or knock your roommate out of his loft. Have a Merry Christmas, and don’t be disappointed
if you don’t get that Ferrari you wanted. Anything is better than the switches and lumps of coal the Sports
Editors gave us.

IMAC basketball makes its debut with cheers from the sparse fans scattered throughout.

Davidson Netters drop five straight

By BRUCE HOLLIDAY
Sports Editor

Davidson’s Wildcats dropped their fifth consecutive basketball game Wednesday night to a methodical Georgia Tech squad, 59-44. Coach Dave Pritchett’s
young team continued to have problems finding the offensive firepower necessary to win games. Against the Yellow Jackets, the Wildcats
could not muster enough points.

Cat Matmen take three wins

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The Wildcat wrestlers managed only three wins in a 35-15 loss to Catawba last week. Glenn Ballard provided the highlight
of the evening with his crowd-pleasing first-period pin. Pat Dulany and Anthony Sanfilippo accounted for the other two victories. Ballard
mauled his 134 lb. opponent. According to his teammates, Ballard has had a habit of being too cautious against a
lesser foe. Against Catawba, he showed a new confidence.In dominating his opponent, “After the first few seconds I knew I
had the guy, so I just tried to think of the most exciting way to pin a guy,” he said.
His use of “the banana splits” definitely generated excitement for the sizable crowd on hand. Sanfilippo’s victory was not as
spectacular as his teammate’s, but it was commendable according to Coach Chris Cochran. Wrestling with only two days of practice,
Sanfilippo jumped out to an early 8-2 lead, and held on to secure a 9-5 victory.

It was a disappointing evening for the rest of the team, as no one else managed to win. Although several
matches were ended by pins, they were all close before the pin occurred. For example, Scott Phillips was ahead 4-0
in his 177 lb. class before being pinned. Team captain Mark Scandling viewed the match in a positive manner. “I
felt we did a fairly good job overall. If Scott and I had won our matches as expected, the final
score would have been 26-21, and that is pretty close in a wrestling match,” he said. “We've still got a
lot of room for improvement, however,” he added.

Davidson managed only 19 points in the first half and turned the ball over eleven times. Surprisingly enough, Davidson shot
57 percent in the first half but still trailed 29-19 going into the locker room. Davidson continued to turn the
ball over in the second half and Georgia Tech steadily pulled away behind the scoring of Tico Brown. Brown led
all scorers with 21 points. John Gerdy led the Wildcats with 13 points. Rod Owens scored 9 points and played
the entire game in foul trouble. Pat Hickert and Marvin Lively rounded out the scoring with eight and seven points
respectively.

Last Saturday night, the Wildcats lost a chance for their second victory of the season in the final seconds of
a 60-58 loss to Rollins. With only 1:50 left in the contest, Davidson held a commanding 58-53 advantage. But Rollins
ran off seven straight points to claim the victory. A Wildcat turnover and the subsequent layup by Bob Morris gave
Rollins a 59-58 lead with 49 seconds left. At halftime, Davidson held a slim 25-20 advantage but foul trouble and
lack of offensive punch in the final minutes decided the contest. With five minutes left in the game, Hickert and
Lively fouled out on successive foul calls and crippled the Cat squad. Over the last three and a half minutes,
Davidson was out-scored 13-4 by a hard-charging Rollins team.

---

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER, President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS, Executive Vice-President and Secretary

Electronic Service and Sales
THE SEWER RCA
173 N. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

Merry Christmas from Your Food Service
We Will Close All Units At 1:30 pm Friday, Dec. 17.
The Snack Bar Will Reopen Sunday, Jan. 2 At 5 pm.
Regular Dining Service To Resume Monday, Jan. 3, 1977.
