the davidsonian

December 3, 1976

2

*

“Gnischbk” performs in buff

_*

during 1977 Artist Series

By ZACK SHORT
Amorphous Mass

Davidson Union Director C. Shaw Smith released Monday the names of the performers in the 1977-78 Artists Series, and the
list promises to be a biggie.

Performing first, on September 5th, hopefully before anyone arrives, will be the Oscar Mayer Ocarina Ensemble from Oshkosh, Wisconsin, a
17-man group composed of up-and-coming talents on ocarinas and slide flutes. According to Smith, “This merrie bande hath played in
beer halls and high school gyms across the country. It should be a night to remember.”

Next, on November 23, during the exam period, will be Das Wunderkind, an avant-garde dance troupe from somewhere. Under the
direction of choreographer Kitty Litter, this group performs modern dance routines based on lower mammalian mating rituals. “Particularly beautiful,” said
Fred Spitzman of the Missoula, Montana, Bugle-Herald-Sun-Daily-Record, “is the ‘Cheez Pleez’ number in which the entire cast mimics Norway rats
in heat, transforming the stage into an ethereal trash dump in midsummer.”

On January 1, Davidson will be entertained by “Truck Patch,” a musical group who play only instruments made of food.
Their tour was late getting started this year due to a tardy harvest, but the season is now in full
swing, and their talents have graced towns such as Fludd, Texas, and Pelzer, South Carolina. Featured in their act are
such country-renowned artists as Hortense Bush on liver pudding, Maxwell House on the five-stringed squash, and Dew U. Wanna on
the windburger. Conductor A. Bob Arebob, still recovering from an in-concert injury caused by a flying watermelon seed, said that
“our group isn’t to be confused with the ‘Blender-tones,’ a similar group who perform solely on kitchen appliances. No sir!”

Finally, there will be a performance by “Gnischbk,” an acting ensemble who perform ancient Latvian drama in the original language
and costume (which is nothing). However, since ancient Latvian drama was performed only on rainy, odd-numbered Tuesdays in months that
begin with “Z,” their performance at Davidson is not sure at the moment.

According to Smith, “Due to the high quality of performers next year, I’m afraid we’re going to have to charge
students a slight fee of $17.23 for each show. However, so that the price won’t be a deterrent, we’ve arranged
to serve Cheerwine and Hostess Twinkies during each performance.”

Outdoor classroom is versatile indeed

By JOHNSON WAX
Dirty Yellow Buildup

“Versatile.” In a word this is how Academic Vice President Frontis Johnston describes the new outdoor classroom located behind Martin
Science Building near Jackson Court. (“That is where it is, huh?” commented Johnston.)

Although not yet completely finished, many uses are already planned for the gift of the class of '76. Captain Outlaw,
head of the ROTC department, expressed interest in using the facility.

“It’ll make a great launching pad!” observed the captain. “Why, with this, we can send manned flights as far as
Princeton; hell, who knows? Maybe even as far as Williams!”

Registrar Richard C. Burts has already requested use of the architectural wonder for drop-add. “The suggestion of never-ending circles leading
nowhere lends just the atmosphere we need.”

Alumni Relations Director Zach Long has non-academic plans for the brick disc. “Well, we wanted to make it sort of
a miniature Stonehenge out of it on Alumni Weekend. Local chapter presidents would be dressed as druidic priests with other
alumni dressed in Wilde D. Catte loin cloths (on sale now at the Student Store). And of course, there’d be
plenty of flowers and booze,” added the grinning Long.

New head basketball coach Dave Pritchett expressed hope that the new facility could be used as a reception area for
all the returning players from last season’s squad.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. summed up other possible uses for the gift. “Well, the religion department, especially Dr.
Polley, has expressed interest in using it for a ritual sacrifice.”

The art department already has designed a seminar to study the classroom. It will be titled “Advanced Brick Architecture with
Emphasis on Circles, 252.” “We had to convince Dr. Labban that he could not make a scale reproduction of the
Temple of Dionysus; I’d like to, but Williams hasn’t got one yet,” said Spencer.

“All these ideas are great, but personally I think it’d be swell for a big horse race, or a big
old beer blast,” he added.

Cancer’s warning signals:

1. Change in bowel or bladder habits.
2. A sore that does not heal.
3. Unusual bleeding or discharge.
4. Thickening or lump in breast or elsewhere.
5. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing.
6. Obvious change in wart or mole.
7. Nagging cough or hoarseness.

GUESS WHAT!!

Those old stereotypes about business education and business careers are gone. Today, you don’t have to be an undergrad business
major to have an attractive career in business. In fact, our intensive 11-month MBA program equips people for management positions
whose undergrad degrees range from science and engineering to the liberal and fine arts.

We'll be on campus:

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1976

COME MEET US. THEN JOIN US.
University of Pittsburgh
Graduate School of Business

Contact: Career planning and placement.

Electronic Service and Sales

173 N. Main Street
663-4513

MOORESVILLE

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

DAVIDSON

© First Union National.
