May 7, 1976

the davidsonian

Place first in northern division

Cat sailors grab conference fourth

The Davidson College Sailing team recently whisked through three regattas in a week, including two held over 1000 miles apart
on the same day, to close out what Team Captain Dave Francis called the most successful sailing season in three
years.

Saturday, April 17 witnessed the Wildcats sailing in both the Southern Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA) Championship Regatta at Charleston
Harbor, South Carolina, and in an intersectional regatta at Ohio State.

Davidson finished fourth among the 14 SAISA conference schools, with only the top six teams actually sailing at Charleston. The
University of South Carolina won the conference, followed by the College of Charleston, the Citadel, Davidson, Old Dominion, and the
University of Virginia.

Francis, with Laurie Bingaman as crew, skippered the A-boat while Chuck Barrineau and crew Tommy Lee sailed the B-boat.

Francis said the unfamiliar boats and strong tides prevented a better showing for the Wildcats, but added that the fourth
spot finish comprised Davidson’s strongest finish since a 1973 third place.

“We beat all the schools in our division of the conference,” said Francis. “All the Northern Division schools (Davidson, Old
Dominion, and Virginia) got hurt by the strong tides in Charleston Harbor—we’re just not used to sailing against tides. Citadel,
College of Charleston, and South Carolina sail against tides all the time. They were used to them and did not
get hurt like we did,” said Francis.

Francis said that the tides presented problems mainly in timing, particularly in timing the start of a race so as
not to cross the starting line prior to the beginning of the race.

At the Ohio State Intersectional Regatta held the same day, A-skipper Stuart Campbell, with Dave Love as crew, and B-skipper
Greg Eason, with crew Alice White, sailed 30 races during the two-day regatta, finishing 13th out of the 15 teams
in attendance.

Francis commented on the low finish. “Intersectional regattas attract teams from all over the country. The competition is tough.

“Also you have to remember that the two skippers at Ohio were our third and fourth skippers—the other two were
at the conference regatta.

“But the regatta was valuable. We gained a lot of experience and we learned a lot,” said Francis.

Returning home the next Sunday, the sailors picked up an easy victory at the Annual Team Race with the Lake
Norman Yacht Club.

In team racing, three boats per team sail in a best of seven race contest. The finish of all three
boats is important, with the team totaling the lowest from all three boats’ final places winning that race.

Dave Francis skippered and Eleanora Collins crewed Davidson’s first boat; Greg Eason and Alice White sailed the second, followed by
Stuart Campbell and Dave Love in the third.

“We wrapped it up in four races,” said Francis. “We were more used to the boats and the strong wind
worked to our advantage. We did not have to work too hard to beat them.”

Francis and Collins finished first in all four races, including three “horizon jobs.” The term “horizon job” comes from ocean
sailing, wherein the lead boat finishes “over the horizon” ahead of the second boat.

Francis expressed pleasure with the improvement of the team over the last two years.

“The last two years have been rebuilding years. At the beginning of the 1974 season, I was the only real
sailor on the team. We had lost a lot of seniors the spring before and had to start from scratch.

“Chuck, Greg, and Stuart had not had any real racing experience previously. Now, we are all sailing consistently better.

“I am the only person in the top eight on the team who will graduate this year. We will have
more depth and experience next year than we had this year. We'll be competitive next year,” concluded Francis.

Sunday, May 9 is Mother's Day

John Mack’s is a Good Store in which to buy your Mother's Day Gift.

Excellent selections in any price range. Come treat Mother with a gift from John Mack’s

NOTICE

Piedmont Bank Master Charge cardholders are requested to give notice of your summer address. We need your summer address in
order to communicate and/or send your re-issued Piedmont Bank Master Charge card.

Congratulations... FREE GIFT WRAPPING for remembering all the SPECIALTIES you know. To DAVIDSONIANS who care enough to send the very
best.

Use Your Automatic Charge Account at The Village Store of Davidson N.C.

Only 6 miles North - Mooresville

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

MEMBER FDIC
