Union, PIRG sue labor department
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

The North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (N.C. PIRG) and the Textile Workers Union of America (TWUA) have filed a
joint suit against the United States Department of Labor. The suit is being filed to compel Secretary of Labor John
T. Dunlop to modify safety and health standards with a view to providing textile workers with better protection against the
hazards of cotton dust.

In a formal statement on Monday, Davidson NC PIRG chairman Andrew Lamas described the suit. “Our action, started in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia,” said Lamas, “asks the court to issue an order directing Dunlop to
begin without further delay formal proceedings for the establishment of more effective cotton dust standards in textile mills and to
grant any further relief that might be proven just and proper.”

“It also asks the court to award the plaintiffs reimbursement for the cost of their legal action,” continued Lamas.

Sol Stetin, TWUA general president, suggested that every Secretary of Labor since 1971 has been aware of the inadequate cotton
dust standards. “Despite promises on numerous occasions to take action to improve conditions, they have failed to perform their statutory
duties by unlawfully withholding and unreasonably delaying action,” said Stetin. The TWUA president calls the delay “deliberate and unconscionable.”

In the opinion of the officials of PIRG and TWUA, these delays have resulted in many thousands of textile workers
being added to the ranks of the disabled and unemployed. North Carolina PIRG attributed 800,000 potential cases of byssinosis, a
crippling lung disease, to improper standards in textile plants which cause undue exposure to cotton dust. The dangers of cotton
dust are particularly acute in North Carolina because approximately one-third of the nation’s textile workers are inhabitants of the state.

“North Carolina state health officials concede that 15,000 active workers may be victims of byssinosis or brown lung disease as
it is commonly known,” said Lamas. “This estimate does not include the many retired workers who are often the most
seriously affected,” continued Lamas.

The Department of Labor, according to Stetin, has delayed action to set better standards for textile workers as a favor
to the textile manufacturers. “The Department of Labor repeatedly refused to act on the claim that people were getting sick.
They said they were waiting for the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to compile a criteria document
on cotton dust,” said Stetin. “Actually,” charged Stetin, “The delay was a political favor from the Nixon administration to textile
manufacturers.”

---

SERPA convention reports weird psychic phenomena
By ANN GARROU and DAVID DICKEY
Staff Writers

With the SERPA convention, Davidson College hosted an annual convention of researchers in the process of studying everything from ESP
to ghosts. Known as the Southeastern Regional Parapsychological Association (SERPA), these people came to Davidson from various points in the
United States in order to present papers in the field of parapsychology.

One of the most provocative addresses centered around the investigation of repeated poltergeist incidents which took place in the home
of a Connecticut family. Some 100 objects were reported to have crashed to the floor unexplainably in the presence of
witnesses. This report suggested a more objective scaling technique for evaluating occurrences of this kind.

Perhaps the most publicized event of this convention was the paper presented by Dr. David Stewart, Seismologist and Director of
the MacCarthy Geophysics Laboratory at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Dr. Stewart collected an impressive amount of
data which suggests the possibility of an earthquake in the area of Wilmington, N.C. within the next ten years. In
the interest of science, he enlisted the aid of Ms. Clarissa Bernhardt, a psychic who has correctly predicted three earthquakes
in the past year. She stated that she could make better predictions if she visited the area of his concern.

In order to “tune in with the vibrations there,” Ms. Bernhardt and Dr. Stewart flew to Wilmington and over parts
of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. During this trip, the psychic made four specific and seven general earthquake predictions.
She also correctly located...The only known active fault that they flew over. “Her prediction for the Wilmington area is as
follows: ‘The area will definitely be hit by a large earthquake within 365 days. Magnitude 8.0. The date that comes
to me is January 17, 1976, plus or minus three days before and after that date.’” An earthquake of that
magnitude would be the largest ever in the east. Its effects would be felt over most of the eastern portions
of the North American continent. Ms. Bernhardt’s past record suggests that her prediction should be taken seriously, especially since her
remarks are in agreement with the best scientific data available. Dr. Stewart does not make any claims for the predictive
ability of the psychic in this case, but does advise political authorities to carefully consider the implications of this report.
“Her record of clairvoyance cannot be ignored. Scientific data supports her in this particular case,” said Stewart. The greatest danger
of an earthquake measuring 8.0 on the Richter scale in the Wilmington area is possible damage to a thermonuclear power
plant in this vicinity. Such plants are built to withstand tremors measuring 5.0, therefore an earthquake of this intensity predicted
by both Ms. Bernhardt and the seismologist could easily threaten the Wilmington plant. In the event of malfunction, radiation from
the plant could spread over a wide area. The Wilmington Star-News reports that reaction in Wilmington to the prediction is
mostly skeptical although rising sales of earthquake insurance indicated otherwise.

COLLEGE SECRETARIAT—Job Leon Venable Secretarial guide delayed, Stephenson lacked staff

By ANDREW LAMAS Staff Writer

Preparation of a job handbook, a manual concerning the conditions of employment for college secretaries, “will begin within the next
week or two,” said Director of Personnel Robert J. Stephenson. Due to a planned staff increase in his office, Stephenson
claims that he will now be able to devote more time to the handbook. (In an article which appeared in
The Davidsonian on September 26, 1975, Stephenson assured this reporter that work on the handbook would begin by November 24,
1975—eight weeks ago.)

The Chambermaids, a local group of college secretaries, clerks, and stenographers, requested last spring that Stephenson begin work on compiling
a handbook for all hourly-paid staff. Several months later, in September, the Personnel Director stated that work on the handbook
had not yet begun. Stephenson explained (on September 26) his delay by remarking that because “of a reduction in secretarial
personnel in this (the personnel office), we were unable to start on the handbook as we would have liked to
have done.” Stephenson went on to say that College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. had agreed to “put some part-time
assistance in this office.” Then, Stephenson said that work on the handbook would begin within the next two months, or
by November 24, 1975.

As of today, the Personnel Office has not initiated the assembly of the handbook. Apparently, due to some administrative failings,
problems developed, because a part-time assistant was not placed in the Personnel Office, and, consequently, work on the handbook was
delayed. On January 13, 1976, Stephenson told this reporter that work on the handbook would now begin “within two weeks.”
According to the Personnel Director, he had been “given the okay just now (Tuesday) to get some additional staff help
in the office (the Personnel Office)—a part-time secretary.”

Even though preparation of the handbook has been delayed, Stephenson again assured this reporter that the handbook would be completed
by “the beginning of Spring term,” or by March 8, 1976. The Personnel Director said that the handbook should include
information concerning job descriptions, wage scales, and benefits. Several secretaries agreed that the job categories at present are “so confused
and jumbled” that a complete revamping of the various job categories is needed. “It would be nice if the administration
would come up with a committee composed partly of secretaries and partly of administrators in order to reevaluate these job
descriptions,” said one secretary. “Everyone would like to see something concerning these job descriptions in writing, but we want what’s
written down to be clear and unambiguous,” remarked another secretary.
