**The Davidsonian**  
March 19, 1976

EXTENDED STUDIES ALLOWS STUDENTS TO TAILOR AN ACADEMIC UNDERTAKING TO THEIR OWN NEEDS AND INTERESTS

Incompetence riddles Davidson campus

A Riddle: What was designed to be useful to students but turned out to be a major grievance? Why, it’s the Academic Calendar... and the Student Statement of Rights and Responsibilities... and the Woodrow Wilson Fellow fellow.

The Academic Calendar dictates that students will have no study day or exam break in the fall term. Students will have to return to the college on the second of January to resume winter term and there is no study day for exams before the exam period starts in the spring. Students should have a chance to have some input into the Academic Calendar but the document that gives them this input does not go into effect until July and by that time it will be too late to do anything. The only way to vent one’s spleen will be to grab a gripe sheet.

The Student Statement of Rights and Responsibilities is a document of rights but no one really believes it has a chance to pass the Trustees. After all, the other nine drafts are currently pushing up daisies in some landfill.

D. H. Clewell was an all right fellow but he made the mistake of trying to speak on freedom of speech here where we have three annuals pending and questions about who publishes the newspaper. Literally, the man was blown off of the podium in Perkins Auditorium and by the time he got back to extolling the virtues of oil companies and multinationals, no one was listening.

The problems with the Academic Calendar are purposely designed to give the students a longer Thanksgiving holiday, do away with a need for poorly attended Saturday classes the week after winter term resumes, and to finish spring exams in time for the seniors’ grades to be available at Commencement. The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship people correctly identified Clewell as an articulate, intelligent man of many talents. The Statement of Rights will probably pass the Trustees in May unless it is changed between now and then. But who would have guessed that such a thing could happen and so who has read it? Well... give them an inch and they'll either ignore it or try to take apart Chambers building brick by brick.

Students want the calendar changed. “Go ahead and shorten Thanksgiving vacation, we’ll be glad to go to Saturday classes that first week in January, at least then we’ll be able to skip the class by choice and not because we couldn’t get back so soon after New Year’s. And what’s the sin of having commencement on Monday?”

Students don’t trust the drafters of the Statement of Rights. “Students in power are trying to ram it through so they can be trustees.”

The Faculty Executive Committee meets soon to discuss the Academic Calendar. Change it! Students have been very specific about what they don't like. Remedies are simple. Students should read their Statement of Rights because it is going into effect and once it does... well you can always grab a gripe sheet.

New draft surrenders entire free press issue

By MARK WILENSKY  
Staff Writer

The recent letter sent to students by former SGA President John Munce is misleading and borders on misinterpretation. A reading of Munce’s letter leads to the conclusion that...The current draft is a product of the governance subcommittee. This is not entirely true. The subcommittee nominally dissolved itself in the fall. It seemingly tired after Draft 9 and did little else. The committee had a "liberal" majority (three students and Hansford Epes outvoted Will Terry, Sandy McKelway, and Frontis Johnston) and pressed for unequivocal freedom of the press among other things. The subcommittee got over some large problems but could not bridge the media issue. With the surprising help of Sam Spencer, freedom of assembly and speech (meaning any speaker can come to Davidson), those bastions of subversity, were preserved. A clause allowing for all students regardless of race, color, or creed (the sticky one) to be eligible for any and all campus organizations survived. These are no small victories. There was ardent opposition among the Trustees, especially for these constitutionally guaranteed rights to be expressed for Davidson College students. Nonetheless, media remained. The College was not about to give up its opinion that they could censor a publication. The students and Epes gave in for the most part, but not enough for the Trustees on the governance committee. Mercifully, the subcommittee gave up. [see WILENSKY, page 7]

The Davidsonian

Matthew Covington
GHUCKRENKNON
Leon Venable
Richard Boyce
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis
Mavic Wacol
Editorial Page Editor
News Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Letters to the Editor

'Chambermaids' reply

To the Editor:

The Chambermaids Board Members met Monday morning at 10:00. We felt that your recent article and editorial concerning our handbook was done in a distasteful and negative manner. Although the handbook is taking much longer than expected, it is making progress. Mr. Stephenson has always been willing to see us at any time to discuss and show us any benefits to which we are entitled. There has never been any question in our minds that the handbook would be forthcoming, or that the Personnel Office was trying to withhold information. Mr. Stephenson and the administration have worked with us for over the past year, sending members to Secretarial Conferences, obtaining a suitable luncheon area, and helping us in trying to set up a bond deduction savings plan.

We organized the Chambermaids for the purpose of "Support to student, faculty, and administration of Davidson College, to encourage in a considerate and professional manner the full potential development of its members: to foster fellowship and to establish understanding and communication between its members and the college." We do not wish to abandon our purpose or to represent ourselves as a unionized group. Your implication of striking for a day, or having organized to demand certain benefits is not in our way of thinking.

The Chambermaid Board Members

To the Editor:

This is in response to the article and your editorial regarding a handbook for the hourly-paid staff. I certainly enjoy working with Mr. Stephenson in the office of Personnel and Administrative Services. It never occurred to me that the handbook would reveal any information regarding policy or procedure that is not already available to anyone who cares to come in and ask. It is interesting to note the number of employees we now have who have been "re-hired." Does this not say something of the benefits and working conditions?

Elizabeth Shinn
Staff Secretary-Personnel