Terp’s Prichett replaces Walters

By BILL BARNES
News Editor

University of Maryland Assistant Coach Dave Prichett has accepted the position of Head Basketball Coach at Davidson College. His acceptance followed immediately upon the resignation of Dartmouth Head Basketball Coach Gary Walters Monday. Walters resigned his position at Davidson and returned to Dartmouth after a consideration of the jobs. He said that he was "just an Ivy League kid at heart and felt uncomfortable in the big time." Walters had said earlier that the Davidson position "was too challenging to refuse." He admitted that he was probably committing "professional suicide" by resigning, but felt that his decision was correct.

Prichett, originally Davidson's second choice in its search for a basketball coach after the firing of Bo Brickels, was given a four-year contract and a salary estimated at close to $30,000. He was on the job within 12 hours of being hired. Prichett is optimistic about his position at Davidson. "I am convinced that if the students, faculty, and the community want a class program then we can get the job done at Davidson," he said. "I think Davidson has enough tradition and academic image that it can be a situation the faculty, students, and community can be proud of in a national sense," he continued.

Director of Athletics Thomas A. Cartmill was also optimistic about Prichett’s acceptance. "I am delighted that Dave has decided to become our new basketball coach," said Cartmill. "He is one of the finest young recruiters in the country today. I feel he is the one man who can salvage the recruiting year and put us back in business by next year," he continued.

Prichett was an assistant coach to Lefty Driesell at Maryland for three years where he built a reputation as an excellent recruiter. Driesell said that Prichett is "an excellent coach in all areas, not just a recruiter." "He is young and ambitious," said Driesell, "and I hate to lose him. I think he will do an excellent job at Davidson."

Davidson basketball players said that they were pleased with Prichett’s hiring and feel he is competent enough to run a good program. Prichett’s basketball experience includes assistant coaching positions at Boston College for two years, positions as assistant and freshman coach at Bluefield State, West Virginia for one year, and freshman coach for two seasons at Virginia Commonwealth. Prichett played guard at Salem College for four years. In coaching, Prichett believes "in some kind of defensive pressure at all times." "I like to run a controlled break on offense," said Prichett.

Martin renovation rates top priority

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

By 1987 a renovated Martin Science Building will provide modern facilities for Chemistry, a new $1,000,000 facility will house the Department of Drama and Speech, and an expanded Johnston Gymnasium will contain enough space for boys and girls physical education, intramural, and intercollegiate athletic programs. "Those three projects are the top priorities in the plan of physical expansion at Davidson College during the next decade," said Vice-President.

Students march to veto calendar, Spencer sympathetic, helpless

By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

A crowd of approximately 300 students gathered next to the house of College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. last Tuesday in support of a Student Government Association (S.G.A.) petition to change the academic calendar for the 1976-77 school year. The crowd witnessed S.G.A. President Bo Baskin’s presentation of the petition, which was signed by about 800 people, to Spencer. The petition asked the Faculty Executive Committee (FEC) to change next year’s calendar by reinstating the...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

study day for next Fall’s exams and by delaying the return from Christmas recess from Monday, January 3 to Tuesday, January 4 in the interest of student return-travel convenience. Before presenting the petition to Spencer, Baskin commented on the purpose of the petition and the gathering. “We’re presenting this petition to Dr. Spencer so that he can in turn present it to the Faculty Executive Committee. He (Spencer) only votes on the committee in case of a tie. He’s not the one to convince. This is not directed at Dr. Spencer, but at the Faculty Executive Committee,” said Baskin. Besides Spencer, the members of the FEC are: Professors Burnett, D. Grant, Holland, Kelton, Nelson, and Winkler; Academic Vice President Johnston; and Dean of Students Terry. Baskin outlined previous efforts of the Senate to change the calendar. “We’ve visited with individual members of the Committee. We met with the full committee twice. We’ve presented them with two unanimous resolutions—this makes our third. I think it would be good if all the students would go by and see the members of the committee. Tell them how you feel,” he said. Baskin expressed disappointment in the decisions to date of the FEC. “I think it’s unfortunate that an academic calendar should cause such a hassle. This has been an inordinately big hassle about an issue which students should have some say. We (the Senate) have taken a very accommodating attitude. I really hope something can be worked out,” said Baskin. In accepting the petition, Spencer reiterated Baskin’s comment that the decision was not his (Spencer’s) to make, saying, “What Bo has said about procedure is accurate. It’s in the hands of the Faculty Executive Committee.” Spencer said that, had he voted, he would have voted against the proposal to cancel classes on Good Friday, against the proposal to delay opening until January 4, and for the proposal to reinstate the Fall study day. “I think the study day is important and I will tell the faculty that,” said Spencer. (In an earlier proposal to the FEC, the Senate had asked the cancellation of class on Good Friday. This request was not included in the petition presented to Spencer.) Spencer added that the FEC had expressed a desire to begin work on the academic calendars for the next few [see STUDENTS, page 3] for Development Craven E. Williams. The completion of Carnegie Guest House and transformation of Chambers Banquet Hall into an art gallery are among upcoming plans for structural improvements. Emphasis on “perimeter housing” to meet increased student housing demands and a piecemeal renovation of existing forms also figures into the improvement picture. “We are approaching an enrollment of 1300 students,” said Williams. After considering economic factors and Davidson’s continuing commitment to high-quality education, the Trustees have decided to stabilize enrollment at 1300 for the foreseeable future. “Expansion plans are being made with the number 1500 in mind as a long-term goal,” he said. “The Martin Science Building needs considerable improvement to bring it up to the standards of other teaching facilities at Davidson,” continued Williams. “Most of the interior features are old and outdated, but the building itself is structurally sound and its exterior is compatible with other campus buildings,” he said. “A complete renovation, including use of the attic, would make available 25,000 square feet of space, adequate for a student body of 1500,” said Williams. “The Chemistry department has been waiting for years for an improvement, and they have presented plans for the project. Funds are now being actively pursued to renovate Martin at a cost of $780,000. This summer we hope to remodel Chambers Banquet Hall into a multi-purpose art gallery with these needs in [see COLLEGE, page 2]

---