the davidsonian

April 30, 1976

2

Faculty Article 12 vote

Motion removes the content

By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Editor

Article 12 of the proposed College Constitution, that section dealing with student rights and responsibilities, has been returned to a Governance subcommittee to be reviewed and re-worked.

The faculty in their meeting on Tuesday voted in favor of a resolution concerning the document. The resolution read:
Motion: That the faculty approve in principle the proposed Statement of Rights and Responsibilities, and ask the original subcommittee [on the Statement] to review it and remove any contentious language with special attention to section 2[b].

The motion was read by Professor of German Hansford M. Epes and received support from the faculty by a vote of 36 to 32.

Epes’ motion was offered in place of an expected faculty motion disapproving of Article 12. This motion was to have originated with a faculty committee appointed to review the document headed by Professor of English J. Gill Holland.

Holland was pleased with the passage of Epes’ substitute motion and said that he believed additional discussion of faculty and students concerning Article 12 would be beneficial.

“Given the high intellectual capabilities of the students, it stands to reason that the more discussion we have from them, the better the document will finally be,” said Holland.

Epes sees the faculty vote to allow more work by the Governance subcommittee as a positive sign.

“We received a positive vote. The faculty was saying in effect, ‘yeah, we will accept a statement of student rights and responsibilities.’ There was some question in my mind that this would happen. The motion only passed by a slim margin but it passed and I am glad,” said Epes.

Some of the problems that the faculty saw in the statement as it appeared to them Tuesday were the unclarity of the document, the “legalese” wording, and perhaps most importantly, the apparent adversary relationship it set up between students and professors.

Epes’ motion supports the view by the faculty that the statement needs to be reviewed. In Epes’ own words, “Some of the document is just flat bad as is so often the case when a committee writes a document. It is rarely great prose.”

SGA President Bo Baskin explained that an opportunity to review the Statement of Rights and Responsibilities was better than the alternative of having no document to work with.

“We avoided the possibility of completely losing out with the document. If the faculty had voted it down, as I believed they were prepared to do, it would have been no good,” said Baskin.

“There are a couple of places the faculty doesn’t like in the document. If these places are contentious we ought to get them out of there. The document isn’t intended to be antagonistic and I don’t want to live with a document when some members of the community think it is kind of nasty,” said Baskin.

Baskin, who has worked on the present document heavily since becoming SGA President in January, expressed some unhappiness at having another delay with the document that has been in some stage of re-write since the spring of 1975.

“I wish there wasn’t going to be another delay, but I think the Trustees will be able to pass the Statement on principle when they meet in May,” said Baskin.

Baskin also expressed a feeling that some good had come from his efforts to discuss the document with the faculty before the Tuesday meeting.

“It was the first time I had taken to actually sit down and talk with some of the faculty members. I talked to more in this one week than I probably have in the four months I’ve been SGA president. I think the experience was beneficial not only because some of the faculty members understand our feelings about the Statement, but also because it gave us a chance to talk,” said Baskin.

“I believe that students and faculty should begin to work together on a wide range of things. I think we may have laid some of the groundwork for this situation in our discussions on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities,” continued Baskin.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry expressed a feeling similar to Baskin’s. In reference to student-faculty relations, he said, “The process of re-working the document can help us know how we feel about things.”

Terry referred a number of times to the “trust factor” involved in student-faculty relations. He believes the “trust factor” has been undercut by the Statement of Rights and Responsibilities.

“The document seemed to many as if it were spelling out in detail ways in which students were to be protected from the institution. There was also the feeling that the document would be tested by students once it was put into effect so that they could see if it was true. This undercut the trust factor,” said Terry.

Terry believes that the motion to study the document again is a good one. He suggested that the feeling in the faculty meeting on Tuesday was one of sensitivity.

“I believe the motion passed on Tuesday was an affirmation of faculty and student desire to deal with this problem honestly and forthrightly and to resolve it,” concluded Terry.