October 15, 1976

"Women score 5-0 Over Wake Forest"

By MEGAN GALLAGHER
Staff Writer

Tuesday, the Davidson Women's Field Hockey Team finished its first full game of the season with a 5-0 win against Wake Forest.

Scoring twice within the first five minutes of the game, the girls established a strong offensive strike that dominated the game.

First to score was Lynn Elliot when the ball was involved in a tight scrimmage at goal. Martha MacGill’s score followed close behind in the same sort of play.

Later in the first half, Beth Tanner scored from a corner hit by Elliot.

Second half scoring was dominated by Bunny Horine who first intercepted a corner pass from Belle Erdman and later used a push pass to knock a ball in that had deflected off the opposing goalie's pads.

Coach Susan Roberts said she was “very pleased with the cohesiveness of the forward line. The front girls have been consistent in their pressure upon the goalie and watching for deflected shots.”

Roberts went on to say she was “happy with the establishment of the new defensive strategy. Only fifteen minutes of the hour game was spent in our defensive territory. That indicated that our defense had got control of the new plan, can clear the ball effectively, and the speed to get back to the goal and defend it.”

“Goalie Cindy Curtis was great in her ability to handle one on one play. Several times she was put in that position and managed to get the ball out to the side.”

“The overall play of the team is greatly improved and I will concentrate on conditioning and some fundamentals for the remainder of the season and the Deep South tournament in November,” concluded the new coach.

Monday the women will take on Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C.

---

GOALIE CINDY CURTIS and Becca Stimson watch as Mary Gray Gilchrist drives the ball away from their Wake Forest opponent.

---

Chance to work outside brings three to service Wildcat gym, athletic fields

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The upkeep of Johnston Gym, Richardson Field, and all the practice and intramural playing fields is not an easy task. It requires a great deal of time and effort.

Three men are involved in this year-round job. Buddy Robbins, David Reid, and Don Kistler are the men responsible for maintaining the quality of Davidson’s athletic facilities. Their duties range from preparing the stadium for Wildcat football games, to lining the intramural fields for flickerball.

Fresh air and the opportunity to work outside attracted each of these men to Davidson. Buddy Robbins left his job at the Lance Cracker Corporation in 1967, and came to work at the gym. David Reid has been working on the campus for eleven years, the past five in the gym.

The newest member of this close-knit group is Don Kistler who left his job at the Mooresville Mills in 1975 in order to begin working at Davidson.

They all enjoy their various tasks and jobs. None are too distasteful or boring. When asked if he had any favorite job Robbins replied, “They are all my favorite, or I wouldn’t be here.”

This shared love of the outdoors also carries over into their personal hobbies. Both Kistler and Reid like to hunt and fish, while Robbins is a golfing enthusiast.

---

PEREGRINE HOUSE

THE PEREGRINE HOUSE HAS GOOD NEWS FOR YOU

AT LEAST FOR A WHILE, WE CAN OFFER GOOD WINES AT GROCERY STORE PRICES. COME BY AND CHECK OUT OUR STOCK.

WINE SPECIALS
BORDEAUX 2.40 LAMBRUSCO 2.15
BEAUJOLAIS 2.78 PIESPORTER MICHELBERG 2.35
GRAVES 2.74 LIEBFRAUMILCH 2.25
ROSE D’ANJOU 2.65 ZEILER SCHWARZEKATE 2.45

REMEMBER WE’VE MOVED THE FRIDAY AFTERNOON HAPPY HOUR UP TO 8:30 P.M. - 10:00 P.M. FRIDAY NIGHT. WE’RE STILL GETTING IT ON THURSDAY NIGHT 8:30 - 10:00 WITH 35¢ DRAFT. Note: Tony Boone really never went to Germany.

---

All are staunch supporters of the Wildcat teams. Robbins, who was raised in this area, recalled how he “used to sit in the trees, and watch the football games forty years ago.” His enthusiasm and interest have not waned. He still enjoys watching all the sports, and getting to know the members of the various teams.

Reid is a basketball fan. He has followed the team’s fortunes and misfortunes over the past eleven years. Although the quality of the team has slipped since the days of Mike Maloy, who is his favorite player, Reid says, “I’m still looking at them and hoping...”

Until he began to work in the gym, Kistler was not a follower of Davidson athletics. However, in the last year and a half, he has become a solid supporter and fan.

Unlike their gym compatriot Pops, each of these men plan to work quite a while longer. They are enjoying themselves too much to quit.

---

THE VILLAGE STORE

When You Care Enough To Send The Very Best

HALLOWEEN

Cards & Partyware
Also... Some interesting new posters and matted prints in the $3-$4 range have just arrived. By: Escher, Nielsen, Fiscus, Parrish, Animal Family, Beatrix Potter, Andrew Wyeth, Art Nouveau. Come in and Browse.