The Davidsonian
December 10, 1976

Foushee and Thompson

CHAPEL HILL

Holliday and Campbell

Three teams vie for the title of freshman advisor

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Competing for the title of Freshman Advisors are three pairs of juniors: Jane Perkins and Joe Craig, Holt Foushee and
Graeme Thomson, and Meg Campbell and Bruce Holliday. Freshman advisors in the past have been instrumental during freshman orientation and
the first part of the school year, but have faded into the background as the year progresses. All three teams,
however, want to change this situation.

“We want to visit each hall at least two times a year to talk, give and take suggestions, and to
generally make ourselves available as real advisors,” said Perkins. Craig added that he hoped to establish the advisors as intermediates
between hall counselors and Will Terry. Holliday said, “We hope to make a conscious effort to work with the freshmen
and the hall counselors after orientation.”

All candidates also agreed that there aren’t enough activities planned for freshmen during the year. “We want to organize more
activities between halls, especially,” said Holliday. Thomson suggested another freshman talent show during the year, and Foushee said, “We want
to prompt the hall counselors to have spontaneous activities for their halls during the year, to promote hall spirit and
inter-hall rivalries.”

“We want to space out parties and activities during the school year,” said Craig. “We would like to promote a
fairer distribution of money among halls.” Perkins added that there should be more activity between freshmen and upperclassmen, “and that
the advisors could generate more enthusiasm for IMAC.”

“The attitudes of his hall counselors are crucial to the attitude a student takes toward Davidson,” said Holliday, concerning hall
counselor influence. “This influence is what really makes freshman advisors important, because the advisors are responsible for hall counselor training
and coordination.” Both of the other two teams felt that the influence of the hall counselors is especially profound in
the first few weeks. All groups felt that hall counselors had to be friends as well as authority figures.

Foushee and Thomson emphasized that their not being hall counselors gives them a better perspective of the role of freshman
advisors. “We won't feel tied to the present system,” said Thomson. “We want to revitalize relationships between students and faculty,”
said Perkins. “We want to get good relationships started at the beginning of freshman year, and we especially want the
freshmen to get to know Will Terry and Dr. Spencer.”

Campbell said, “We have both been hall counselors and are a coed team, which we feel is important.”

Five people seek Union positions

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Five people are vying for three positions on the College Union Board: Bob Hill and Billy Hutchings for Union President,
Olivia Ware and John Kravet for Co-Curricular Vice-President, and Mark Tyndall, uncontested for Social Vice-President.

The Union Board President presides at Union Board and Union Board Executive meetings. He represents the Union to faculty and
administration, and coordinates all the Union's activities.

“I think the Union Board President is mainly supposed to get the ideas of the students,” said Presidential candidate Hill.
“His main function is coordination of activities. I can’t say it’s that administrative, but it’s basically to find what the
students want and to try to put them into effect.”

He is running for the position because he “thinks the social side of the college is the most important. The
Union is here to provide experiences you won't get a review on—it provides everything you don’t get in books.” Hill
plans to get more students involved in Union activities, to build better relations with Patterson Court, and to have more
social student/faculty interrelations. He hopes to hold planning sessions once a week in the Union lobby to let students voice
their opinions in procedures.

He has never held a Union position before, but “I’ve been a step and fetch-it for the Union for the
past two and a half years. Now I’ve been active with the planning committee, so I do know the Union,”
he said. “The Union is the campus’ jewel; I’d like to see the campus make use of it. We’ve done
a lot of experimentation so far and I don’t want to see that end,” Hill concluded.

Hutchings is running for Union Board President because “I’m interested in the Hilljob. "The main thing right now that’s involved
in the job is that we’ve gotten used to having this place around. Systems are beginning to work, and I
want to keep them that way," he said. "The Union is working now, and I want to carry on what’s
going on as I don’t want to tear anything down to restructure, because it is working. Any reconstruction will come
later," said Hutchings.

He believes one of the major weaknesses of the program "is that people still aren’t talking to others and saying
‘Hey, let’s go over to the Union and do such and such.’ There’s a bundle of things that aren't being
done and people ought to know they can use this place and come over," he said. "I generally want to
expand the Union so people will have something else to do," he said. "The Union and Patterson Court will have
to get together more on who’s holding what so we don’t have something big going on in the Union and
three or four parties on the court."

Hutchings has held no positions in the Union either, but he is the social chairman at Fanny and Mabel's, the
Vice President of the Black Student Coalition, and a Hall Counselor. The Co-Curricular Vice President coordinates the activities of the
Co-Curricular Council of the Union, including serving on the Artist Series Committee and the Union Board and Executive Committee.

Olivia Ware is running for Co-Curricular Vice President because, "I’m interested in the committees, in co-curricular. I’ve been indirectly and
directly involved with the Union since I was a freshman and I’m sympathetic to the cause." "I’m also interested in
students and feel I’m pretty receptive to their needs," she said.

Ware plans to develop the smaller committees in the Co-Curricular Council. "Basically I think that there are some smaller committees,
like poetry, that the students do not get a feel for. The larger ones pretty much run themselves; they’re a
standard thing on the Davidson campus," she said. She also plans to try to coordinate the committees like Open End
and Speakers to allow them to make their guests more available to students, by having an Open End with a
Speaker, or an Evening With or Open End guest.

"I think the basic qualification for the office is a feel for Union programming, and that comes from experience. I
also feel I’m creative enough to deal with the ups and downs," she said. Ware has had experience with four
Union committees: Open End, Evening With..., concert, and pop films.

Kravet is "interested in the workings of the Union," and is running to be able to "institute some of the
plans people have given to me—some things the Union hasn’t done this year," he said. "Co-Curricular is where my interests
lie right now. Working through Steve (Steve Peeples, current Co-Curricular Vice President) I’ve realized that cultural events are really appealing
to me," he said.

Kravet has two areas he wants to develop if he is elected: informal committees and the use of student opinions
and suggestions. "I’d like to see some more emphasis on Open End and Evenings With... They’re a little less formal,
especially Open End. I see a lot of people with questions and they don’t know who to talk to. The
Open Ends are a place they can get their questions answered. I think Evenings With... and Open Ends should be
more open to what the students want," he said.

"I’d like people to come to the Union and tell us what they want to see. If the students don’t
voice their opinions of what they want, we should go directly to them," he said. "One of the Open Ends
I’d like to institute if I get elected is one to get to know the Union officials. Everyone on campus
should know the Union Board and where to go to voice their opinions," Kravet said.

He has worked on no committees as such, but has worked closely with Peeples lately.

Tyndall, running uncontested for Social Vice President, says he is running because "I like entertainment, the industry, and the intrigue.
I like the feeling of participation in the decision-making processes. I like to relate student opinion—as far as I can
tell what that is—to the decisions made by the Union Board. I’ve got some contacts among the student body that
will give me help there as opposed to the bird in the gilded cage viewpoint," he said.
