October 15, 1976  
By RICHARD BOYCE  
Editorial Page Editor  

A year ago; a scene: Quite unsuspecting, the student fumbled with his I.D. and stumbled into the darkness enclosing the entrance to the 900 Room. Someone had mentioned a dance. Thursday night and nothing much tomorrow. Why not? Rounding the corner, the uninitiated scholar was blasted with a dazzling conglomeration of sound and color. A mechanical, unvarying rhythm pounded from the speakers. Dancers jerked “robotically” to carefully practiced steps. Fancy clothes and expressions of unmitigated boredom. In the corner, a student D.J. plying the trades of his new-found “science.” Tonight was not just any night. Tonight was a special night. Tonight was the student’s first, though, by no imaginable means, his last, DISCO! ... and so time passes.

No, Disco did not come overnight. We had been warned. The “let’s dance” of the 60’s had long ago given way to the “shag” and “bump” of the early 70’s. Stealthily and subtly, the “songs” had crept in. Something easy to dance to. Something requiring little concentration. A set rhythm, a set step, something one could feel comfortable with. A welcome break from the wide-ranging modulations of hard rock turned into a multi-million dollar trend. Musical groups, clothing stores, and record shops scrambled to reap the all too apparent financial benefits. Davidson, often accused of being a social backwater, caught the trend in full stride. Disco moved from “phenomenon” to “custom” in a matter of weeks. Crowds began to show. The 900 Room belatedly began to prosper. Through the “charm” of Disco, the “casual mixer” became a reality at Davidson. Such was the first generation.

Monotony plagues

HEY, STEVE...  
THERE'S A DISCO IN THE UNION

Disco was yet new, fresh; something, perhaps, to be enjoyed. The second generation has come all too soon. Honed to a science, the Disco producers have programmed their tunes and used their words to expound its merits. All Disco is now about Disco. Dancers have quickly settled into a highly distinguishable clique, replete with codified regalia, movements, and expressions. Yes; indeed, the thrill is gone. One must now ask what purpose, apart from the financial, Disco serves.

Reorganization fails  
(Continued from page 4)

...mining the reasons for his new appeal in Georgia, though, for Carter support was scant until he was victorious in the early primaries. A beer joint manager near Plains, Georgia, Dave Gore, sums up the prevalent attitude towards Carter. Quoted several weeks ago in Newsweek, he said, “I like Carter but he’s too liberal for most people around here. The ones who vote for him, they’ll do so just because he’s from the South.” Gore fears that Carter will forget his Georgia heritage once elected. “I’ve always dreamed of a Southern President,” another man said. “I keep saying Carter can’t win, because he’s just a little man. But I guess if he does win, and he really stays a little man from south Georgia, well, that would be all right.”

Whereas some citizens go along with the Carter candidacy just because he is a Georgia boy, others are outright opposed to him and ridicule his prospects. Another Plains resident, Junior Davis, was quoted as saying, “I ain’t gonna vote for him, but I sure will make money off him. I’m gonna hitch some rubber tires onto one of my old wagons and give mile rides around Plains to the tourists. If Jimmy thinks we don’t like him, he might just send old Junior to be ambassador to lower Siberia or something.”

Men like Davis and Gore, typical Georgia workers who not only endured his four-year term but are his neighbors as well, are perfectly aware that James Earl Carter is not a down-to-earth, conservative Southern Baptist, but similar to the ultra-liberals of the Northeast, who will “go ahead and give what they want” to people who “sit around on their stoops waiting for handouts.” In an area such as Jimmy Carter comes from, people are industrious farmers and mill-workers who resent unjustified welfare and senseless government spending like Carter’s grand and glorious reorganization plans. They interpret his candidacy as a threat to the hard-working, agrarian life they enjoy and do not want to end. They recall his term as Governor with animosity and consider a Carter Administration on the national level as hopeless.

TONITE, ISN'T THERE?From this now-vanquished thrill of novelty, Disco serves? As is all too obvious from the expressions of the proficient, Disco certainly has no connection with enjoyment. Only the inept, it seems, are prone to laugh or even smile. The face of the true “Disco groupie” remains aloof, indifferent, and above all, “cool.” Superficially, this apparent boredom is not too difficult to trace. Disco music is far from uplifting, getting neither louder nor softer, faster nor slower; getting, in fact, nowhere, but, rather, choosing to pound out endless directionless circles of “sound.” Furthermore, Disco dance steps are a long cry from exhilarating, being strictly proscribed and religiously performed, as monotonous as the music from which they originate. Lastly, the dress of the performers proves nothing to break the lethargy, its uniform blend of double-knits, silk shirts, skirts, and short hair proclaiming conformity, not individuality, as its goal. Yet, to trace the apparent “aloofness” that is Disco to such superficialities is to miss the point. The music, dance, and styles which are Disco are products, not causes. At the center of Disco lies a peculiar attitude toward dance. This “attitude,” as a recent article in Playboy adequately portrays, lies with its origins. As this article points out, soul’s origins lie ultimately with “the blacks.” Beach comes predominantly from the “care-free” white middle class. Disco sounds of the gay subculture, specifically the gay bar. Given these origins, the peculiar attitudes toward the purpose of Disco become quite easy to delineate. As in the showcase that is a gay bar, the ultimate purpose of dance becomes neither entertainment nor recreation, but display. The ardent Discoer above all desires to be seen. This basic mindset manifests itself in particulars. A song, in this setting, need not mean anything or even sound good. Its purpose is to fit a codified rhythm, allowing the dancer to display his/herself flawlessly, repetitiously, mechanically. A dance need not express anything, sexually or otherwise. Its purpose is solely to display membership. Those who “belong” look good at the expense of the flailings of the untrained. Lastly, styles and costumes need not express personality. Their purpose, once again, is not expression, but display. Baggie jeans, t-shirts, and long hair can by no means display a svelte torso as well as unisex silks and knits. And so, the cycle has gone full turn. From the gay bars has come not only our music, but our dance “psychology,” as well. Such an analysis says neither pro nor con. Perhaps, though, it gives us a clearer picture of the choice we've made. Cast back to those days of imagined idealism, the 60s dance served, again idealistically, as a means of self-expression and release. There did exist the twist and a few coded variations. There was, indeed, the trauma of the uninitiated. This is not to say that Disco serves no laudable purposes whatsoever. Disco, as well as beach and soul, serve very real purposes as “breakers,” if not sometimes welcome substitutes. Furthermore, like any other game with rules, Disco affords a chance for “mixing” in a context freed from constant “communication.” Through its ritual and expectedness, it allows the experienced to feel “comfortable” on first meetings. In the long run, Disco, as is usually the case when money and technology combine with fads, is a potentially good thing which has been run into the ground. It stands, in its present form, antagonistic to the release of inhibitions, individuality, or expression of any kind. To perfect its appearance and, thereby, its selling power, Disco has been inbred and inbred until today’s offspring are virtually sterile. Sterile music is nothing but noise. Sterile dance is nothing more than convulsions. Disco, as such, becomes hardly more than competition on a different plane. The “Hustle” is an appropriate name. Those insecure in class battle it out on the dance floor. Yes, perhaps I’m just getting old. My parents ridiculed me for the tasteless and vapid monotony that was The Beatles. “Play That Funky Music White Boy” may simply mark the emergence of yet another generation gap. If so, all I may hope is that such a “gap” may be real enough for me to maintain a safe distance. Better yet, Disco might do us all a favor and, as one of its “songs” so poetically and exquisitely phrased it, “lay down and boogie, boogie, boogie till it dies.”