March 26, 1976

the davidsonian

Netters amass 7-4-1 record, doubles cited as weak point

By BILL HAWK
Staff Writer

The varsity tennis team, midway through its third week of competition, has now played twelve of the twenty-eight scheduled matches and amassed an impressive 7-4-1 record.

Three of the team’s losses were to Swarthmore, Duke, and UNC, strong opponents (two of them scholarship-studded) which have been consistent winners over the past several years. The fourth loss was to Dartmouth last Saturday in a poorly-played match.

After losing to Duke last Wednesday, the netters struggled back out to the courts Thursday only to be blown away (9-0) by UNC, probably the strongest team they will meet this season.

The number 3 doubles team of Steve Johnson and Steve Hoffman managed to win one set in their loss to UNC and thus save the team from total humiliation by the powerful Tarheels.

Friday the team took on a slightly weaker Central Michigan. ‘Slightly weaker’ might be an understatement as the final score of the match, 9-0, was lopsided this time in favor of the Cats.

John Mitchell led the team by winning his number 3 singles match 6-0, 6-0. None of the individual matches were close as the Central Michigan team managed to win only 26 games in 18 sets of tennis, an average of 1.44 games per set.

The Cats definitely played below their capabilities in last Saturday’s game against Dartmouth as they only managed two victories in the singles and none in the doubles.

Michael Grady Barnhill played superb tennis to defeat his opponent 6-0, 6-0 in the number 2 singles. Brian Cooper, another sophomore, also played well as he defeated his number 5 opponent 6-2, 6-4.

The number 3 doubles team of Johnson and Holman, while not winning their match, were once again the only pair to salvage a set on their way to defeat.

Monday saw the Cats playing East Stroudsburg, a team from somewhere in the wilds of Pennsylvania.

Davidson won all of the singles matches with the most notable victory being that of John Trout, a freshman playing in his first match of the season. Trout won the number 6 singles 6-1, 6-1.

The Cats dropped all three doubles matches to East Stroudsburg, winning the match 6-3 and boosting their record to 6-4-1.

Davidson rolled over Amherst 8-1 in their most recent match on Tuesday. Tom Shelley, playing at number 5, lost the only match for the Cats.

Chip Bondurant played exceptionally well at number 1 as he thrashed his opponent, George McGovern, 6-1, 6-2.

In what may have been the most exciting match of the day, Gil Kaytan, a freshman playing at number 6, rallied from a 5-1 deficit in the second set to win 7-5 and take the match in two sets.

Coach Jeff Frank is pleased with his team’s play so far. The doubles teams still appear to be the Cats’ weak point but Coach Frank showed little concern over their play.

“Not only are our doubles teams showing constant improvement — but the Northern schools always have the best doubles teams because they practice a great deal indoors, under crowded court conditions where doubles is more practical,” he said.

“Most of the teams which Davidson has played so far have been Northern teams traveling through the South because of weather conditions. The latter half of the schedule shows a higher proportion of Southern squads so we can expect a better showing from our doubles teams.”

Upcoming matches for the varsity tennis squad include Ohio University on Friday, N.C. State on Saturday, and Pfeiffer on Monday.

Coach Frank rates N.C. State as being about the same caliber as Duke and UNC — that is, very, very good. The match against Pfeiffer will be Davidson’s first away match of the season.

STU BOSWELL volleys with an East Stroudsburg netter in a victorious effort on Monday

-Pete Goodman

Club ruggers, booters meet varied success

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

The club teams met with varied success this past weekend.

The ruggers were soundly defeated 28-0 by the Charlotte Rugby Club Saturday.

The members of the UNCC soccer club traveled to Davidson while most of the UNCC students watched the NIT finals on Sunday afternoon. They should have stayed in Charlotte to watch the NIT, as they were handed a 3-1 defeat by the Cats.

According to third-year veteran Frank Hamilton, two factors hampered the rugby team: inexperience and the Davidson Track Meet. Speedsters Mark Connors and David Swaim were involved in the track meet as the ruggers played. (The rugby team is proud of Swaim who, in making his track debut, won the 100-yard dash.)

Hamilton said that the Cats were forced to play five men who had never played in a game before.

The soccer club’s performance was bolstered by the leg of Dave Patten and the temporary return of Charles “Beachball” Slagle.

Patten accounted for two of Davidson’s goals, and Slagle, who played goalie for the Cats two seasons ago, showed he still has not lost his skill in the goal, as he allowed only one goal.

A 1-1 tie was broken late in the game, as the Cats erupted to score two quick goals and capture the win. The club members felt they performed well considering their lack of practice.

PEREGRINE HOUSE

HAPPY HOUR

THURS 8:30 - 10:00
FRIDAY 2:00 - 6:00

25¢ DRAFT

FREE BEER SATURDAY AFTERNOON

3:00 P.M.

MANY GALLONS ON THE STREET

YOGURT SALE ALL WEEKEND!

3 / $1.00