April 23, 1976

The Davidsonian

Faculty on Policy

By MAX E. POLLEY
Professor of Religion

My position on athletics can be stated simply. I believe in athletics as an extra-curricular activity participated in by students
in their spare time. Anything that borders on professionalism is, in the long run, a disservice to students and the
academic institution. I am very conservative at this point—in fact, reactionary. The original intention of encouraging students to become involved
in athletics was to assure that they lead a balanced life. For students to devote all their time to study
will surely dull their minds. I am delighted that so many Davidson students participate in some form of athletic program—intercollegiate,
club sports, and intramural. It would be ideal if all students had some sport in which they participated. But the
key to the value of sports is participation; the spectators may be momentarily entertained, but their bodies and minds receive
little benefit from watching other people perform. This is why I favor emphasizing continuing sports in college, developing some athletic
skills the students can carry with them through life.

Arguments Rebutted

The two basic arguments for a nationally competitive basketball program are that (1) it helps raise money for the institution
and (2) it helps our admissions program. In both these areas it is difficult to obtain hard facts. We are
told that a successful basketball program will attract money to the institution. Certainly no one expects that the basketball program
will show a profit from gate receipts. (During Driesell’s best year basketball showed a loss of $4,000.) Nor should it.
But the question is, “How much are we willing to spend to attract money?” A realistic estimate is that the
basketball program cost the College $275,000 this year, monies spent from the operating funds of the College. The Wildcat Club
has contributed nothing toward the basketball program; their funds support the football program. The basketball program is paid for from
endowment income, alumni contributions, and student tuitions. That’s more than $200 per student. Is it worth it?

The total athletic budget at Davidson runs around $800,000 a year, 10 percent of the total College budget. Is this
an overemphasis on athletics? I believe it is. By comparison (admittedly my figures are four years out of date), Notre
Dame spends $1.8 million on athletics out of a total budget of $60 million. That’s 3 percent of their total
budget. But at Notre Dame it is a business. The gate receipts (including TV) total $2 million; the intercollegiate athletic
program contributes $200,000 a year to the operating expenses of the university. At a time of economic inflation and recession,
I do not believe Davidson can afford to put $800,000 a year into the athletic program.

Ivory Tower Preferred

How successful is the basketball program in attracting money to the institution? This is difficult to determine because there are
a variety of reasons which lead people to contribute. But I must admit that it bothers me to use the
student athlete as a way to sell Davidson to prospective donors. It borders on exploitation. I have no such qualms
about selling Davidson through its academic reputation. I guess I simply believe that academics is more central to education than
is athletics. In an academic setting, I prefer the “Ivory tower” of teaching, research, and scholarship to the “fantasy world”
of Saturday’s Hero.

Admission Benefits Questioned

The Snow-Westmoreland article in last week’s Davidsonian emphasized the benefits our admissions program received through a nationally ranked team. It
did increase the number of applications. Did it increase their quality? There have been various explanations given about why College
Board scores have declined in the 1970s, but this is the first time I have heard it linkedto our no
longer being ranked in the top 20 in the nation. The article states that the average College Board score was
higher in the 1960s when we were nationally ranked than in the 1970s when we were not nationally ranked. Therefore...?
The logic escapes me. Using the same data, could it not equally follow that if we stiffen admissions requirements and
increase our average College Board score to 1800, we would again achieve national ranking? Or could it not also be
argued that achieving national ranking in the 1960s led to the decline in our College Board scores in the 1970s?
I have never claimed that the academic standards at Davidson College were lowered in the 1960s to make possible a
nationally ranked basketball team. No one within the institution has ever said that. Those on the outside have accused us
of lowering our standards, but to my knowledge, this did not take place. Of course, there is always pressure to
lower standards, and it comes from a variety of quarters, not just athletics. It is always a struggle to maintain
high academic standards.

Wrong Models

But having said this, let me add that Davidson is unique in its attempt to become a small, liberal arts
college which combines a big-time basketball program with high academic standards. I find it strange that in all other areas
of college life, the schools with which we wish to compare ourselves are Dartmouth, Williams, Swarthmore, Haverford, and Carleton (none
of which are nationally ranked in basketball), while the schools with which we wish to compare ourselves in basketball are
UCLA, Indiana, and UNC-Charlotte.

Princeton's Scholar Athletes

The school which Snow-Westmoreland selected as ideally combining big-time basketball and high academic standards is Princeton. I suppose it is
a matter of perspective. Princeton would argue that it has not gone big-time. I have no figures in this area,
but I offer you two stories. The first was a conversation I overheard in the 1960s while traveling by train
from New York to Charlotte. Two Princeton graduates were discussing their school’s basketball loss to Davidson over the weekend. I
was surprised when one of them said, “That’s what happens when you try to compete with a school that’s gone
big-time in athletics.” (I kid you not—it did happen.) The second story comes from Chris Thomforde, a former Princeton basketball
player who is presently chaplain at Colgate University. He was recruited by both Davidson and Princeton in 1966. He decided
on Princeton because he believed their program placed far less pressure on the student-athlete than did Davidson's. He received no
financial aid during his four years at Princeton and enjoyed basketball immensely. Princeton obviously looks for the outstanding athlete who
is also gifted academically. But they award scholarships on the basis of need only. Athletes are not paid to play
at Princeton. Students are not required to go to practice; if there is a conflict between academic and athletic responsibilities,
the academic takes precedence. No games are scheduled during exam periods. So when they have a successful season, it is
a happy accident, not a result of intensive recruiting and vast expenditures of money. When they have an unsuccessful season,
no one gets upset and demands the dismissal of the coach. Chris Thomforde considers the Princeton program ideal; they win
their share of the games, but they are seldom nationally ranked. In his judgment, the athletic and academic programs blend
harmoniously. I suggest we use Princeton as our model.

Athletics should not be used as either a means of raising money or as a means for recruiting students. The
athlete should play for the sheer joy of it. Let us give sports back to the students where it belongs.
