February 13, 1976

The Davidsonian

Davidson blacks blast college, town

By MARK WILENSKY
Staff Writer

At a community meeting held last Thursday night, Town of Davidson blacks verbally blasted the Town Council and Davidson College. While airing grievances to Legal Aid Society of Mecklenburg County Attorneys, about 40 members of the town’s black minority depicted Town Council’s decision-making process as dominated by Davidson College.

The meeting was called by Mrs. Annie Mildred Lowery, to give town residents an opportunity to discuss their problems with the Farmer’s Home Administration, with the Legal Aid Attorneys. Legal Aid Director Terry Roche, Attorney Don Gillespie, and Para Legal Arthur Griffin all attended the session held at the Ada Jenkins Community Center.

Roche began the meeting by asking those present if they had any questions or problems they would like to discuss. Immediately the question of a proposed Algae Pond Park became the chief topic of the meeting.

“What about the people on Sloan Street?” one elderly gentleman asked. “Will they have to move to build this here park?”

Algae Pond

It was explained that the Town of Davidson had plans to build a park in the area known as Algae Pond. The Pond is that body of water on the right side of the road as one enters Davidson from I-77 via Griffith Street. The town has received federal funding for site improvement on the land. Town residents explained the park was to be built beginning in the spring of 1976. According to those attending the meeting, the town plans to acquire Sloan Street (a residential street of four homes) as part of the overall park plan.

“According to Nancy MacCormac,” said a member of the Town Park and Recreation Committee, “Sloan Street will not be taken yet. It is part of a long-range plan, and nobody will be forced to move until other places are available.”

“I’ve been told that they are already rezoning Sloan Street and Griffith. We’re all gonna have to get out,” another woman replied.

Legal right

Roche interrupted to explain briefly that a municipality has the legal right to obtain any land from its owner for public use by paying fair market value for it. He explained that ultimately the owner of land desired by a municipality for public use could be made to sell. Roche suggested it might be possible to persuade the town to change its plans if the community was against the park.

There was a clear consensus against negotiating with the Town Council. One lady explained that appealing to the town was futile, suggesting that Town Council was not interested in the black community.

“Look,” a man said, “everybody knows that this town is run by Davidson College. Nothing else matters but what the college says.”

Others in the audience agreed. “Davidson College runs the town all right,” a woman added.

Roche inquired as to the makeup of the Town Council and was told it was made up of one college administrator (Grover Meetze), a retired professor (J.W. Reid), a faculty wife (Nancy MacCormac) along with two non-college related members (Bill Mayhew and Burl Narramore).

“The reason that the park is being built is because the college wants to make its entrances look better. Let them build it somewhere else. These people have nowhere to go. They worked hard for their land,” a resident said.

“Davidson College owns all the land anyway. They keep buying everything up and always say they can’t sell because they need to hold it for their people. Let them build their park by the Interstate. That lot is empty,” he continued.

Motel site

For some years the college has owned a large land tract near the Interstate with hopes of selling it as a motel site. At present the site remains unsold. Town resident Ron Donaldson took the floor and read an open letter to Davidson residents from their peers, urging residents to think carefully before selling their land.

“Let these people build someplace else,” he said. “Why not at the entrance of I-77 into Davidson; the property Davidson College has bought, just as they are still buying all around us.”

“For years we couldn’t get the town of Davidson to keep up the land by Algae Pond. We asked them to mow the lawn and they never did. I finally borrowed Mrs. White’s mower and mowed it myself,” said Donaldson. “Now that we got all the weeds out they want it, just when we got it looking all right,” continued Donaldson. “In the past two years they still only been out to mow the grass four times.”

College runs town

“We all know that Davidson College runs this town,” interrupted a man in the front. “What Davidson College wants, Davidson College gets.”College runs the Town Council,’ he concluded. It was decided that Legal Aid would investigate exactly what the plans for the park were, and whether or not the town of Davidson had officially adopted them. The residents were told that there may well be legal ways to ensure that the residents of the area have an opportunity to protect their interests.

After the discussion of Algae Pond Park, the Farmer’s Home Administration (FHA) rent collection procedures in Lakeside were discussed. Residents claimed that Farmers Home was confusing residents as to payment procedures, and many residents felt the FHA collection was not entirely clear. Roche explained that little could be done without the lawyers having a chance to review the FHA contracts. Arthur Griffen arranged with individual residents to meet with them and review their problems with FHA.

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

Union President Karl Goodhouse has appointed a Committee on Finance and told it to unravel the Union’s budget problems. Committee chairman Brad Swalwell said his group will have two goals. “First, we will audit the Union’s books to locate any discrepancies such as unrecorded expenditures or receipts. Then, we will try to develop a system that the Union can use to keep its books in good order in the future.”

The Union received $49,000 this school year from the Students’ Activities Fee. This sum is deposited in a single account. The Comptroller’s office handles all voucher requests and receipts from the Union and ensures that the account remains balanced. The Union Board determines how the money will be allocated between its eight social committees and ten co-curricular committees. In addition, the vice-presidents of the social and co-curricular committees and the union president are allocated contingency funds to cover unexpected cost overruns in their departments.

Each committee is instructed to stay within its budget, and the Board attempts to monitor expenditures by maintaining ledgers for each Goodhouse committee. Swalwell cited an example to explain the problem. “The pop film is shown on Friday night and $100 in gate fees are collected. That money is taken in a bag to the comptroller’s office with an attached note that it is to be deposited in the Union’s account. The money is credited to the account, and the Board gets a receipt on the transfer. However, if the receipt does not say who made the deposit, the board doesn’t know which committee to credit it to.

Auditing the Union’s books is a two-step process, according to Swalwell. “We will look at each committee’s ledger card and determine total money spent and total remaining,” he said. “Those figures will be totaled and compared to the comptroller’s figure for the Union account. Next, we will see if all receipts have been properly credited. This will ensure that no committee is credited with expenditures it never made. After the present financial status of the Union has been determined, we’ll devise a system to keep Union finances straight,” said Swalwell.

“Presently, the Campus Tax Board receives the other half of the Students’ Activities Fee. Each of its committees has its own account and budget. If the Union operated under that setup, committee expenditures might be much easier to monitor. Or perhaps the committees can be required to adhere to strict accounting procedures. Carbons of receipts and vouchers involving funds from the Union account could be made. Then the Board would have a record of each committee’s spending.”

Darlene Cunningham chairs new Laura Moses Minority Activities Committee.

Events committee to stage activities
By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

The newly formed Union Minority Activities Committee, chaired by Darlene Cunningham, is now in the process of organization. “The purpose of this committee is to bring more programs here for those who constitute the minority of the school,” explained Cunningham. She added that these minorities included blacks, women, and international students as well as religious and ethnic groups.

The first major activity for the committee is Black Week which will take place in April. The Minority Activities Committee is funded with $2000 from the Cultural Events Committee and $1000 from the large union contingency fund. Cunningham said that over $2000 will be spent on Black Week.

In staffing her committee, Cunningham said that she was planning to talk to Dr. Tania Devon and Louise Thompson, both of whom work closely with the international students. “I’m also going to talk to a member of the religion department because we have so many different religious minorities here,” said Cunningham. “I want either Anne Pelfrey or one of the other people who organized the Open End on Title IX to serve,” she said.

“Programming,” said Cunningham. (see MINORITY, Page 6)