March 26, 1976

A Review

Miscellany mystifies with moving moments

By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Reviewing The Miscellany is no easy job. First, I am a new hand at this, English courses notwithstanding. Secondly, it’s always tough reviewing the hometown boys. You’re bound to be embarrassed no matter what you say. Third, being a reviewer ranks pretty high in the pain in the ass list because there’s no winning—if you pan it you’re insensitive or just stupid; if you like it it’s always for the wrong reasons. But enough apologies.

The Miscellany is always a pleasant surprise. When we study poetry here, we naturally read the biggies, the untouchables. So when our own review comes out, the prevailing attitude is often “What sort of hack, pretentious stuff is this gonna be?” And when we come across something moving, or something we wish we could’ve done, it’s really rewarding. This year’s collection is full of such moments, but I differ with the judges as to where.

I don’t think I read anything better in the entire book than Jonathan Monroe’s poetry. “Suburban Streets” is perhaps a little obvious, but after some of the seemingly purposely obscure verse in other parts of the book, I didn’t see this as a major fault. Monroe has taken a standard theme, and even some standard images for that theme (the graveyard, the facade), yet has avoided sounding trite. It’s restrained but effective, there are some arresting images, and the irony of the last stanza made me wince. Suburbia is not only as big a deception as a Hollywood set, it lacks the class.

In contrast, I just could not get a handle on the poetry of Walter Griffin, First Place winner. I’d be honestly interested in some discussion of his works. Some of the images were initially appealing, but I couldn’t follow them anywhere; the associations they conjured just didn’t seem to develop. I had some trouble reading Bradley as well, but of the two his words and images seemed more pregnant, more suggestive. Stringing them together, however, took more concentration and insight than I could muster. I never felt satisfied with my readings of any of his poems. Obviously, the fault could lie in my limitations as a reader.

Of the remaining poetry I particularly recommend Ann Deagon’s “The Brown Muses” and “The Hole,” and R.T. Smith’s “Sleeping with Maggie on the North Side of Town.” Smith’s poem was tight thanks to some skillful word repetition, and it contained some of the nicest phrases I’ve ever read.

I could not contend with the choice of Thomas Friedmann’s “Visiting” for First Place fiction. The themes of returning, searching for a past, and the desire for “familiarity”—all are handled well without slickness or sentimentality. The context of Judaism provides a useful set of traditions and associations but the meaning is not totally dependent upon a good understanding of this context. It is essentially a traveler’s story (hence the name “Jason”).

Bill Barnes’ “Bella” provided some good unpretentious narration and the piece succeeded even though the subject matter is a little overused. Happily he did not attempt any socio-cultural “society’s victim” type approach to the prostitute.

Due to a short memory and poor reading habits I will not compare this to Miscellany’s past. That’s a pretty useless exercise anyway given the variations that take place from year to year. Just read it (and do read it) for what it is; it’s solid, it’s interesting, and it’s got more than just a few bright spots.

Primary produces varied responses

Iredell County Courthouse

By ANNE PELFREY
Associate Editor

People couldn’t use bad weather as an excuse for not voting in the North Carolina primary, Tuesday, March 23. It was a beautiful day at Precinct Davidson. The sun flickered through the oak trees in the front yard of the town hall. I sat under a tree and waited to talk to people on their way to or from the polls.

The first people I met were two older ladies with white hair. One seemed frail, but her smile was young and bright. “Well, I like Jimmy Carter. He’s from the South and he’s a Democrat. I think we could use a good southern man in the office. I think he’s as good as we can do,” she said. I asked her companion her choice and she retorted with a smile, “Ford. He’s a Republican and I like the effort he’s made.”The lady I questioned had a northern accent and she hurried to the door as she answered me. “Just say I’ll vote for anybody but Wallace and preferably a Democrat,” she said. There were few people I talked to who preferred Henry ‘Scoop’ Jackson, but one soft-spoken middle-aged man justified his choice with this response: “Henry Jackson is a good man, who is possibly able to pull the Democratic party together. He can do that maybe as well as anybody we had today to vote for. The list shows a diverse group of candidates and that reflects the diversity of the party. This is why we perhaps need someone who can mold groups,” he said.

A middle-aged black man wearing a blue shirt with a Reeves insignia on the front leaned against his car as he explained his view, “I’m a Democrat and I like Jimmy Carter. I like what he’s saying. But you can’t believe what none of them is saying. I think we need someone new up there. After you’ve been in the White House for so long, you need some change,” he said.

A young man told me that he is 22 years old and that this is his first day to vote. “Maybe I'll vote for Carter because he seems to be more for everybody,” he said.

Another middle-aged couple strolled up to the door holding hands. When they saw I was from the college, they proceeded to question me. “Where are you from? How do you like school? I was in Atlanta a little while ago,” the man said. “We're voting for Carter, but I’m not sure I’m going to keep voting for him. Still, he’s the best possibility among those we’re voting for today,” the man said while his wife nodded in agreement.

Another man dressed in a beige suit came walking briskly from the shopping area of Davidson. I approached him with my same spiel. “I’m writing for the student newspaper. Who will you support in the primary? I won’t use your name.” “Ford, because Jim Martin supports him and he must know better than I,” he clipped.

A car turned into the drive. I stood up and moved toward it. The man rolled down his window. His wife was at his side. “We'll vote for Wallace. We think he’s for the poor people,” she said. “If there was a Roosevelt, I’d vote for him a thousand times,” the man said. “But you’re too young to remember Roosevelt,” he said. “I’m voting for Wallace also because he’s a cripple and I feel sorry for him,” the woman said.

A middle-aged man wearing polyester pants and a red sports coat walked toward me. He had a deep southern accent and blond hair that waved across his forehead. “I like Ford. I don’t see no need for change. I’m satisfied with what he’s been doing,” he said.

One professor’s wife, who rode a bicycle to the polls, said that she supported Fred Harris, who visited Davidson last year. “The wise vote might have been to vote for Carter. But I really like Harris. He’s pro-conservation and pro-distribution of wealth. He’s a good liberal candidate,” she said.

Another faculty member also told me of his like for Harris. “I’m voting for Udall. I would normally vote for Harris, but I don’t think he stands a ghost of a chance. My sympathies are with Harris,” he said.

Some of the faculty members were hesitant before they answered my questions, if they answered them at all. “It doesn’t matter what we say. We’ll probably be misquoted,” said one professor, who was accompanied by his wife. They both chuckled. “I’m probably voting for Carter,” his wife said. “Let’s just say we’re voting against Wallace,” the professor said.

It was 5:45 p.m. and few voters were coming to the polls. I walked down Main Street back to the college. I would watch the returns on television that night.

Davidson Precinct results:

REPUBLICANS
Ford 69
Reagan 21
No Preference 2

DEMOCRATS
Bentsen 3
Carter 206
Harris 33
Jackson 17
Udall 41
Wallace 63
No Preference 16

Total number of votes 493