The Davidsonian
March 12, 1976

Williams battles
[Continued from page 1]

“The market value of our endowment depends on the ups and downs of the market. Our performance in the market
with Scudder, Stevens, and Clark (the college’s investment counsel) has been very good. The fact that the book value of
our endowment is low is the reason for this project,” said Williams.

Williams added that the $17 million figure does not reflect the funding the college receives annually from the Duke Endowment.
“The effective figure of our endowment is about $35 million, of which we manage about $18 million.” Williams also noted
that Davidson’s endowment is not low when compared with schools its size. “There are some schools with larger endowments, but
there are a lot more with smaller. There are very few schools in the southeast with larger endowments than Davidson.”

The project statement gives projected income and expense budgets for each of the next ten years and states that the
budgets assume there will be no changes in the academic program which would increase costs. Williams said that this does
not mean that there will be no changes in the program. “The budgets show the deficit which we would incur
if we operated with the present faculty and program during the next ten years. This is our case to donors
for more money.

“Surely no one who is interested in Davidson would want it to grow stagnant—we need to grow. We need to
find funds not only to avoid a deficit, but also to grow,” said Williams. Williams emphasized that there was no
danger of the college operating with a deficit budget. “We would adjust and cut to have a balanced budget. But
the program would suffer.”

Spencer said that it is not the intention of the project to limit changes in the academic program. The project
statement also shows that Davidson's tuition is lower than average for private colleges. Spencer commented on the use of increased
tuition as a means to more operating money for the college.

“In the past, it’s had to be a source. But the problem with this is that our competition is not
just the private colleges, but also public colleges. We are competing with Chapel Hill, and that is formidable competition. Chapel
Hill is a good school. We can price ourselves out of the market by raising student fees,” said Spencer.

Williams pointed out the dangers of increased tuition. “We are getting dangerously close to the point where only the affluent
can afford to come to Davidson. That’s why financial aid is so important. If we raise tuition, we have to
raise additional endowment for financial aid so that others besides the affluent can afford to come here to school,” said
Williams.

Early Acceptance
A substantial number of men and women have again been sent acceptance letters by the college before regular acceptances are
mailed. A list of those accepted is posted in the hall near the admissions offices. The admissions staff asks that
students or faculty members who know accepted applicants write to encourage these students' interest in Davidson. All additional letters of
notification will be mailed on April 1.

Attendance figures bother athletic department
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Asst. News Editor

Attendance figures at Davidson basketball games in the Charlotte Coliseum have been a concern for coach sellers, ushers, and security.
Even though last season...and Johnston Gym have athletic department officials worried. "I don’t think we lost so much money that
the entire athletic budget will show a deficit, but, financially speaking, this year was one of the worst for Davidson
basketball," said Assistant Director of Athletics Thomas Couch. When the Wildcats play at the Coliseum, the College pays the city
of Charlotte a flat rental rate plus 12 percent of the gate receipts. Davidson pays another fee dependent upon the
number of sections opened for seating. Finally, the College pays the ticket-takers and guards on duty at each game. "The
overhead at Charlotte Coliseum is tremendous. Season ticket sales are the only thing that saved us this year. That income
paid the overhead and helped us avoid major monetary losses," said Couch. "Before the season the coaches assured us that
this year’s team was a good one, so we opened all the sections at the Coliseum. The crowds became smaller
and smaller, and we backed off our earlier estimates, paying only enough to open half the sections. We couldn’t even
fill those."

Rumors spread claiming that Davidson was losing so much money in Charlotte the team might not play at the Coliseum
next season. "This year we didn’t have capacity crowds at Johnston, but when we do climb back to the top
in basketball, I wish we could expand the gym to seat about 6500. Then more teams would play us on
campus, we wouldn’t have to pay for so many games in Charlotte, and we could make some money off home
contests," Couch said. "If we hire a dynamic coach who can recruit a couple more talented players and tap the
potential of this year’s group, Davidson can be in the top 20 as soon as next year. Then we’ll be
back in those days of 10,000 attendance when each Coliseum game grossed $40,000 for the school," he continued. "Receipts of
games in Johnston Gym have never been enough to cover expenses. Once we reserve one side for the students and
another section for faculty and staff, there aren’t enough tickets left to sell to make any significant sum of money."

Davidson, like most other schools, is not self-sufficient. Losses are built into the budgets. Final figures will be computed soon,
and if the basketball losses do exceed the planned estimate, funds would have to be drawn from either the athletic
budget or the general fund to compensate," said Couch. "The President would decide where the money is taken from," he
concluded.

Three models available, all featuring the space age styling of a Ferrari and the economy and sales price of a
Volkswagen. Your investment of $12,759.50 includes demonstrator cars, factory training, fully returnable deposit, and a marketing system that permits you
to be successful, with or without previous automotive experience, full time or part time. For information write Mr. B. Watts,
Allied Industries, 1806 Tenth Street, P.O. Box 3278, Wichita Falls.

PIZZA * LASAGNE * RAVIOLI * VEAL SCALLOPINE * CHICKEN CACCIATORE * VEAL PARMIGIANA * STEAKS and many other dishes
* CHOICE WINES & BEERS

Support CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. - 7449 918 W. MOREHEAD GENERAL CONTRACTORS * P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary
