November 5, 1976

WILDCAT GRIDDERS work to develop their blocking skills during practice, hoping to continue their winning streak Saturday against Delaware.

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats unleashed their vastly improved offense on Guilford College last Saturday and literally ran over the Quakers en
route to their second win in a row.

The Cats made it look easy from the start as they took the opening kickoff and marched the length of
the field. Quarterback Bobby McCarthy capped the 70-yard, 15-play drive with his scoring plunge from the one-yard line.

The conversion failed, and Davidson led 6-0.

Not to be outdone, Guilford took the ensuing kickoff and marched 71 yards. The scoring play was a 35-yard pass
from quarterback Johnny Stewart to tight end Dale Lee. They too had kicking problems, and the score was tied at
six apiece.

From there on, it was Davidson all the way. The Cats’ offense continued to move the ball on the ground,
and the Davidson defense pounced on Quaker fumbles to shut down Guilford drives.

Early in the second quarter, the Cats went ahead for good on Pete Legler’s stunning 51-yard run. McCarthy's pass to
Page Walley for the two-point conversion was complete, and the Cats led 14-6.

After Gary Stokes recovered a Quaker fumble on the Davidson 33-yard line, the Wildcats drove for the score, Eddie Setser
taking McCarthy’s pass in the end zone.

The crucial play in this drive was holder Al Rhyne’s pass to Larry Crees on a fake field goal attempt.
At the half, Davidson led 21-6.

The final Davidson score came late in the fourth period and was set up by Jarry Taylor’s fumble recovery on
the Guilford 33-yard line.

Quarterback McCarthy again took command and passed three yards to Walley for the score.

The Davidson offense finally showed just what it could do, much to the dismay of the Guilford homecoming crowd. Pete
Legler and Page Walley led the running attack with 146 and 125 yards respectively.

Combined with McCarthy’s passing (8-15 for 70 yards), the Cats amassed over 400 yards total offense, the greatest production in
several years.

Next week Davidson will try to continue its winning ways on the road against perennial small college power Delaware before
returning home to play.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION SNACK BAR SPECIAL

Return of the 20¢ Hot Dog

Fixed Any Way You Like It

Kraut 10¢ Extra
Thursday, Nov. 11 — 11 am - 4 pm

DAVIDSON'S FOOTBALL offense practices escaping their opponents, trying to ensure more record offensive yards in future games.

-Russ Kells

COLLEGE JUNIORS COLLEGE SENIORS
NUCLEAR PROPULSION

The leading operator of Nuclear Reactors in the United States is currently seeking college juniors and seniors for graduate training
in Nuclear Propulsion after completing undergraduate degree requirements. Interested applicants should be in pursuit of a Baccalaureate Degree with an
engineering, pure science, or math major and have demonstrated ability in math and physics courses. A minimum of one year
of college physics and math through integral calculus with a “B” average or better in technical courses is required. Successful
applicants will be paid over $500 monthly during their senior year of college. Upon graduation and commissioning, applicants will receive
one year of nuclear graduate training. Nuclear qualified officers will be challenged by the entire spectrum of management and engineering
responsibility as practicing nuclear engineers aboard Naval vessels and ashore.

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Come browse

Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mack & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville

LT. JOHN GORDON
Navy Recruiting District Raleigh
1001 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, NC 27609
Dial Collect (919) 872-2005/2006
