6 April 9, 1976

Terry cites irresponsibility
[Continued from page 2]

It begins with the proverbial water fights. "We have not been adamant toward prosecution either from the Dean’s office or
the Hearing committee," said Terry.

Terry emphasized that most of the vandalism was because of carelessness. He believed most students were not malicious but were
simply involved with pranks. Terry said that a high incidence of destruction came about because students were playing with frisbees
or balls in the dormitories.

"I think we can rationalize most anything away that we want to. The fact is that damage is being done
to materials. It costs," said Terry. "I do not think the average Davidson student is malicious. Rather he is reluctant
to live up to his responsibilities to himself, the college, and to other people’s property," continued Terry.

Terry pointed out that there had been an increase in the seriousness of inter-dormitory vandalism. "This year seems to have
a more flagrant type of vandalism. In confrontations between Sentelle and Cannon, Cannon has called security three times. This represents
a special situation when students have to do this," said Terry.

Meetze suggested that the effects of vandalism on maintenance personnel who had to fix them had not been good. "If
you call the same maintenance people to replace the same window, they suffer from hurt morale. A lot of them
are proud of their work and have to be on call 24 hours a day for essential repairs. After a
while, they begin to feel that the administration is somewhat negligent—and it is a fact that we are letting it
happen. You can’t control it under a system of intellectual freedom which we have set up as a standard," said
Meetze.

BASIL Bunting, influential poet, is seen at left in a 1966 photo.

BROKEN WINDOWS: Vandalism is increasing on the Davidson campus

Bunting will read

Basil Bunting will be on the Davidson campus Thursday, April 15. Bunting, one of the foremost modern poets, was influential
in the development of objectivism. Bunting was born in Scotswood on Tyne, England, in 1900. He was educated at a
Quaker public school and at the London School of Economics. He has spent time in prison for declaring himself a
conscientious objector during World War I. He has rubbed elbows with the likes of Ford Madox Ford, Ezra Pound, and
W. B. Yeats.

-Pete Goodman

Baraka’s lines elicit empathy
By BILL PITMAN
Staff Writer

The Rockefellers, DuPonts, and company comprise "that handful of vampires who control the United States."

"The only practical revolution is armed violent overthrow of the state mechanism."

"Stalin was a great revolutionary...Stalin’s work and theories are guiding lights to the people of the world."

Did LeRoi Jones say those things? No, of course not; he was that militant black nationalist of the late sixties.
You know, the young talent who won the Obie for the best American play of 1964, the "Dutchman." He was
on his way to "success" then. The toast of the town, LeRoi went to all the nice parties and knew
all the good people. He was the up and coming fair-haired boy of the stage,so to speak. Then, to everyone’s
shock and dismay, he threw all of that white glory back at the establishment. Jones left the established theater and
went back to Harlem, and then to Newark, back to enlighten his people. Maybe those at the nice parties didn’t
hear what LeRoi was saying, or maybe they thought it was just rhetoric or some new fad. Whatever, he really
meant it when he called “whitey” the enemy; his hate was real and deep and violent. That pure raw hate
came out but the sixties have come and gone. No, LeRoi Jones did not speak in Love Monday. We heard
a different man, or so he seemed, Imamu Amiri Baraka. Mr. Baraka, the gifted poet-dramatist-novelist, spoke on art. The audience
soon discovered, however, that the art of interest to the writer was revolution. “Poetry should be a tool of revolution.”
This “revolutionary struggle,” he went on to say, is that of the black and white workers, the proletariat, against the
owners of the means of production. Obviously, Baraka is a Marxist. Violent revolution, dictatorship of the proletariat, instant happiness for
the masses -- he is in on the whole act. Lenin, Stalin, Mao, Ho Chi Minh -- they are his
heroes. You are the petty-bourgeoisie, indoctrinated by your culture to support the elite “vampires” who control society and drain off
all the milk and honey. You can be saved, he instructed, if only you forsake your middle-class ways and join
the workers in the revolution. After his talk, Baraka read some of his poetry which is soon to be published
in a book, Hard Facts. The first poem, “Gibson,” relates the story of a friend of Baraka’s who became one
of the “few black faces in high places.” It describes his friend’s success in politics as a token black, his
travels, and his eventual emergence as a defender of the white establishment. Another poem, “Real Life,” was what he called
his “post-Watergate” commentary. It hits hard at Nixon, who snorts cocaine, his wife Pat, who relieves herself on the rug
and rolls in it, and the team of Jerry and Rocky, who are respectively dumb and corrupt. The wealthy Vice-president
is a favorite target of Baraka, and was honored by another work, “Rockefeller Is Your Vice-president and Your Mama Don’t
Wear No Drawers.” Despite the radical political views he presents, and the unceasing barrage of obscenities, the man has great
ability: he can make people feel. Even if you do not agree with his philosophy, you cannot but experience a
bit of the misery that Baraka’s people experience. You are forced to see the problem in all its subtle magnitude
and to feel the anger, the burning anxiety of the poet. He shows you why his heart is so eaten
away by hate and violence. LeRoi Jones’ political philosophy is different, but his heart seems to have softened but little.

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Winston Salem, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS is compiling a book of poems. If you have written a poem and would
like our selection committee to consider it for publication, send your poem and a self-addressed stamped envelope to:
THE NORTH CAROLINA SOCIETY OF POETS
614 - 1st Union Bldg.
Winston Salem, N.C. 27
