December 10, 1976

the davidsonian

JOHN GERDY moves around his opponent to move in for the shot.

By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

It just wasn’t Davidson’s night Monday, when Appalachian State took a 71-53 conference win from the Wildcats. Just ask the
referees.

The Mountaineers paid no attention to Davidson's “home court advantage” and blistered the nets at a 60 percent rate in
the first half. At the same time, the Wildcats had their troubles finding the range and managed to hit only
35.7 percent.

This included one stretch of six minutes when we failed to score at all and the Apps ran up a
31-15 lead. At halftime, the scoreboard read 35-21.

Freshman forward Rod Owens led a Davidson charge in the second half that brought the lead down to seven points,
but the Apps recovered and managed to put it away.

Owens scored 18 points in the last half while playing with four fouls. That’s an especially remarkable effort considering the
quality officiating.

Pat Hickert played a fine game inside. He led the Wildcats in rebounding for the fourth straight game with 8
and added 13 points and 4 blocked shots.

A couple of other blocks were taken from him because of some confusion on the referees’ part concerning goaltending. It
appears that the proper way to block a shot is to pin it on the backboard. Unfortunately, no one but
Appalachian and the refs knew.

It was also legal to use the rim for pull-ups.

For the most part, however, Davidson’s troubles were caused by the offense. At times, the Cats lost their poise and
didn’t take the good shot. When they got one, they didn’t hit it.

John Gerdy was characteristic of the offensive difficulties as he managed only nine points. It was the first time in
Gerdy’s career that he didn’t score in double figures.

Gerdy, who was leading the Southern Conference in scoring before the game with a 24-point average, managed to keep his
average at 20.0 with 9.

-Irv Wilson

Coach Pritchett spoke of the team’s lack of game experience. “We’re starting two freshmen, two sophomores, and one senior who
has little experience. And our first sub inside is another freshman.

“We certainly need to display poise from a team standpoint.”

Davidson is presently 1-3 and 0-1 in the conference. The team travels to Rollins Saturday in search of win number
two and moves on to Atlanta December 15 for a game with Georgia Tech.

Their next home game will be in the Coliseum on the 18th against Brigham Young.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CO-CAPTAIN Marvin (Marvelous) Lively sets a free throw to help the Cagers accumulate points. Unfortunately, neither he nor any other
Cat can get enough as the Cats hold a 1-3 record.

St. mutilates Cagers

-Irv Wilson

D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
“MEL BROOKS’ MASTERPIECE:

Love Auditorium

Admission - $1.25
