May 7, 1976

the davidsonian

Farrell recruits 38 gridders to add size to Wildcat lineup

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Two years ago Ed Farrell and his staff came South to try and save Davidson’s decaying football program. The past
two seasons have seen only three victories posted by the Wildcats, and it would appear the football program is approaching
a crucial crossroads.

No one believes rebuilding the football program has been or will be an easy task, but the energetic coaching staff
approach their difficult task with determination.

In order to have a good program a team needs good players, and, although Davidson does not need All-Americans, it
does need to attract solid quality players. Recruiting is the only way to obtain the needed players and in the
past months the football office has been busily recruiting players.

The coaches’ efforts have resulted in the signing of thirty-eight recruits for the 76-77 season. “I am really pleased with
the recruiting that has been done, and we have successfully accomplished our recruiting priorities,” Farrell said.

The recruiting priorities were to obtain big linemen, offensive, and defensive backs. These areas were Davidson’s weakest spots last season,
according to Farrell.

Davidson has recruited six offensive and defensive linemen, and they are behemoths. Six of the tackles that were recruited average
between them a height of 6’3”.

Two of the best prospects are Rich Aiello from Florida, who turned down a full ride at FSU, and Dylan
Faircloth who was a first-team All-State player in Georgia.

The Wildcats lacked speed, size, and depth in both the offensive and defensive backfields last season, and Farrell has recruited
several outstanding players to aid in these spots.

Craig Pyles from Miami, and a local standout Barry Connon from Concord are expected to help out tremendously.

A lack of full scholarships both helps and hurts the Davidson program. “Top prospects are lost right off because of
lack of scholarships,” said Farrell.

The lack of scholarships helps, because it removes the money side, in Farrell's estimation. “If a player wants academics, he
will come to Davidson, if he wants money he will go elsewhere.”

Farrell instructs his coaches to stress academics and future plans when recruiting. He feels that this is Davidson's biggest recruiting
asset.

Farrell’s goal for next season is for the team “to approach and reach a level of respectability.” If this level
is achieved, the coaches hope to post some victories.

Looking over the upcoming 76-77 schedule, Farrell felt there were no sure losses on it. He feels the Wildcats will
be capable of winning any game they play.

Optimistically, he added “if we gain momentum and confidence with a few early wins, who knows what may happen?”

On a more pessimistic note, the Wildcat coach commented “there are no sure wins on the schedule either.”

Ruggers capture win in year’s final match

By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

Davidson ruggers traveled to Belmont Abbey Sunday to pull in the final win of the season.

The game opened as Jeff Morrow tripped over the line for a try. Dan Boggus, the Club’s “golden mistletoe,” made
the kick for the conversion setting the Wildcats up 6-0.

But the overjoyed ruggers were caught off guard as Belmont scored twice in rapid succession.

The bold rugby expression was portrayed on the savage defensive tackling of Mark Armstrong, John Lewis, and Bucky Banks.

Davidson gained control of the game again as Rad Diller, in a series of “up and under” punting, crashed Belmont’s
goal line defense for the second try.

Chip Crawford pranced over the line for a try and, together with Boggus’ conversion kick, brought the Cats up to
the final score of 17.

Belmont’s vain attempts in the last minutes of the game yielded them a final score of 16.

This closing game of the season left the final Cat record of 7 wins, 3 losses, and 1 tie.

Ray Wilson

Head basketball coach Dave Pritchett announced yesterday the hiring of Ray Wilson as an assistant coach. Wilson was a top
assistant at Massachusetts University and coached professional superstar Julius Erving in high school. During Wilson’s eight years at M.U., the
Minutemen went to the NIT five times and the NCAA playoffs once.

DON'T DESERT YOUR PIEDMONT BANK CHECKING ACCOUNT

- Leave your account open during the summer—A dollar will do.
- When you have no activity, there is no charge—Regardless of balance.
- Save time on your return in September—Activate your account simply with a deposit.
- Your remaining personalized checks will be good—No need to buy new ones.
- Carry your Piedmont Bank Master Charge Card with you this summer.
- Apply now if you don’t have one.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER F.D.I.C.
