the davidsonian

December 10, 1976

5 on 5 basketball begins,

Ta-Tas present annual tally

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

The recent complaint of the laundry that it is being swamped with pungent, putrid, rancid white socks and jocks indicates one of two things. Either Mark Shelley has decided to take his laundry down, or 5-on-5 basketball has commenced.

Relying on the type of investigative reporting we are infamous for, we have discerned that the latter is true. Shelley’s laundry is still in his room.

This issue includes the first annual Ta-Ta Tally. The tally attempts to pick the teams that best exemplify six haphazardly chosen bodacious categories:

Most Deteriorated. Captain Climax and the King Colons, a band of burned-out biology majors, who by season’s end will be recognized as Private Prostration and the Constipated Colostomies.

Most Dangerous. Pershing Rifles, sometimes referred to as the Slaughterhouse Five. This gang of ex-SWAT men has never played more than one half of a basketball game due to their unusual half-time drills, in which they line up their opponents and execute them.

Most Disgusting. Gomers Pyle, a contemptuous assemblage of foul gutter rabble. Opponents are especially repulsed by Franks Fartz, the precursor of Gomers Pyle.

Most Obnoxious. Squatty Bodies, a team of bellowing blimps to whom the word deodorant has no meaning. The Squatty Bodies’ most effective defense is to have one of their team members sit on the opposing team while the remaining four Bodies take turns scoring at will.

Most Ingenious. Cancelled, a phantom fivesome whose name alone causes most opposing teams not to show up at all.

Most Congenial. Five Easy Pieces, a promiscuous pentad that pollutes its rivals with private pre-game parties, rendering them unfit for play.

Best Team. Monolithic Defenders of the Faith, the only team that smacks of purity, a team whose religious dedication to basketball should allow them to ascend to the championship.

Worst Team. Sloppy Seconds, a degenerate, immoral, malicious squad of munchkins who will finish no higher than second in any game they play this season.

So concludes the first annual Ta-Ta Tally. Being the all-knowing authorities on IMAC basketball, we urge you to feel safe in betting all your meal tickets on these sure-fire forecasts.

WILDCAT CHEERLEADER KAREN White encourages both the team and the fans during a break in the basketball action.

-Irv Wilson

Cheerleader squad leads Wildcats

By STAN HALES Staff Writer and BRUCE HOLLIDAY Sports Editor

One of the most improved squads on the Davidson athletic scene this year is that of the Wildcat cheerleaders. From tryouts through summer camp to weekly practices, enthusiasm and dedication have made the difference between this year’s cohesive group and the backbuster squads of past years.

For the cheerleaders, the season began in Knoxville, Tennessee, at summer camp where the cheerleaders not only learned new drills and routines but more importantly got to know each other. Words such as “cohesive” and “gregarious” were used by several describing the group.

Their cohesion and enthusiasm didn’t end with summer camp, but has carried over into weekly practice sessions, almost unheard of in past squads. These practices mark efforts on their part to reach and maintain a high degree of consistency and competence, reached to some degree as evidenced by awards they have received.

But, no matter what goes on in summer camp and weekly practices, Davidson cheerleaders, just like their more athletic counterparts on the field, are measured by how they perform during the game. Whatever it is they’re doing, it works. As even the cheerleaders themselves have noticed, never before have crowds been so responsive and in tune to what the cheerleaders were doing. They like to attribute this not only to their improvement, but also to the Davidson football and basketball players whose improvement has made their task more enjoyable.

... Shooters’ spirits high

[Continued from page 13]

Other Davidson shooters in Saturday’s match were senior Rob Mitchell with 246, sophomore Andrew Mac Donald with 242, freshman Mike Pearson posting 221, freshman Robert Kirkendol shooting 217, freshmen Berkley Mann and Louis Williams with 197 and 191 respectively.

“Our spirits are pretty high; we have a good time and we all enjoy shooting. Everyone is looking forward to our return match with N.C. A. & T. in January and then our Southern Conference match with William and Mary in early February. We lost to William and Mary last year but this year things should be different,” said Niblock.

Coach Flannigan feels that if his team continues to improve at the present rate Davidson will have a real chance to capture some gold in the Southern Conference and W.C.C. tournaments in the spring.

“We're only halfway into the season and have a 9—3 record already. Everyone expects to do much better than last year’s record of 13—10,” says Flannigan.

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Come browse

Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mack & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville

THE VILLAGE STORE

Come Browse

Enjoy the friendly atmosphere of Davidson and the personal attention of small-town shopping. Discover perfect “finds” — a gift for all.

Christmas Cards By
-Hallmark
-Recycled Paper Products
-Drawing Board

Kitchen Gadgetry From
-Around the World

Baskets Galore

Prints, Posters, Graphics
-New York Graphic Society
-Fellus Studio
-Parkerhouse
-Argus

Many, many other unusual gifts to help you express a joyful holiday season.

Brings You a World of Gifts