the davidsonian April 16, 1976

Spring term abroad: gone and trying to forget “Greeks” dispatch greetings

By ROGER BROWN Staff Writer

[Editor’s note: My cohort and sometime co-author promised to send me a column from Greece—here it is. It is the
product of a group effort, and hopefully is the first of three.]

Greetings from the land where olive oil flows like water and baklava replaces Grimm’s donuts, where goats graze and eleven
Davidson students relentlessly seek the truth with the aid of their impeccable shepherd, Dr. George Labban. The purpose of this
discourse is to highlight the high adventure of the group and help the rest of you experience some of the
excitement of Greece.

The most effervescent member of the group has been Jim “of the black look” Brock. Jim has concocted a scheme
whereby the group could rake in millions by converting the historic site of Delphi, formerly the location of the Oracle
of Apollo, into a children’s amusement park. Milk chocolate maenads, the Medusa ride, a monumental statue of Athena with flashing
neon eyes (visible for miles), the world’s largest roller coaster (say what?) skirting the peaks of Mount Parnassus are just
some of the features projected. Also, all temples would be painted so that they would fluoresce under huge black lights
while everyone danced to the sounds of “Achilles and his Little Heels.”

In addition to these ideas, Jim has also received the nickname “Tundra” as a result of icy nights in Youth
Hostels during which many were in doubt as to Jim’s chances for survival.

Kay Jackson has achieved untarnishable fame by doing the bump with Dr. Labban on a bus from Sunion to Athens.
She has also displayed a notable wardrobe of floral flannel underwear and a poncho with huge red, yellow, and blue
polka dots on a black background.

Vance Christopher claims fame as the only group member to live through a Turkish Bath. Young Vance was scrubbed and
massaged by Turkey’s finest.

Don Jackson’s underwear flew off a window sill in Athens on the fifth floor and landed on a flagpole on
the second floor. Luckily Ed Wilkins rescued the dangling drawers with a suspended coat hanger after a brief scare.

Friday, April 16, 1976

SPRING FROLICS WEEKEND

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

1 pm Golf: Catawba Charlotte Country Club

2 pm Tennis: East Carolina Davidson

3 pm Square Dance Richardson Plaza

3 pm Baseball: N. C. State Davidson

3 pm Women’s JV Tennis: UNC-C Charlotte

3:30 pm Chess Club Meeting Large Conference Room

8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: “My Fair Lady” Love Auditorium

9 pm “Brice Street Band” Richardson Plaza

10 & 11:30 pm Larry Keen 900 Room

Saturday, April 17, 1976

SPRING FROLICS WEEKEND

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

1 pm Tennis: Richmond Davidson

1 pm Spring Frolics Parade

2 pm Baseball: South Carolina Columbia, S.C.

2 pm Outdoor Concert: “Rosewater Blue” Baseball Field

9:30 & 10:30 pm Larry Keen 900 Room

11:30 pm Disco Dance 900 Room

Sunday, April 18, 1976

All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries

2 pm Rugby: VMI Davidsonto Don. Ed has acquired the title "Sacker of Hermes" following in the path of Alcibiades.
Staley Jordan traveled incognito to Yugoslavia as Mrs. Weldon Jordan and also received a combination proposal-proposition on the overnight boat
ride to Crete. Other epithets assigned in the Homeric tradition include Dana English, Leader of Men, and Casual Ken (Bell)
of the Archaic Grin. The choral group consisting of everyone in the program has rendered interpretations of almost every tune
a lead voice could corrupt, including "Surfergirl," "Rag Doll," "Dance to the Music," and "Moon River." This emotional release has
aided the peaceful coexistence and been a source of unending joy to all listeners.

6 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship
7 pm American Contract Bridge League Scholarship Competition
8 pm Interorganizational Forum Mtg.
Monday, April 19, 1976

Other experiences worth mention are showers by candlelight, mutilation of our Rent-a-Car Peugeot’s front fender by a large truck which
backed right into us, and frisbee throwing at the stadium of Delphi. Greg Crawford, in his usual quest for robust
activity, strayed into a seedy bar at 4:00 in the afternoon to partake of some ambrosia and to relax. Moments
and a few drinks later he was presented with a bill for $30; Greg maintained his composure and quietly excused
himself from the bar without harm to life or limb.

One of the most interesting features of the Greek people themselves is their advanced state of Women’s Liberation. The women
have been freed from menial housework such as ironing and washing and now have time to chop wood and chase
goats while their spice (plural of spouse) are busy drinking Ouzo, which is a putrid blend of alcohol, licorice, and
low-grade kerosene, and playing backgammon in the local bar.

All the group agrees that Davidson should be appreciated for the following: clean underwear, hot showers, iced tea, basketball and
softball games, peanut butter, cow milk, ketchup, McDonald’s (believe it or not), music and dancing, mom, dad, toilet seats, monkey
paper, newspapers, the "Tronic" Columns of Chambers, the P.O., and E.H. Little Library!

Morrison Room
Lg. Conf. Room
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am Women’s Speakers Committee Green Mtg. Room
11 am Humanities 123 Film: "Life in the Thirties" Perkins Auditorium
1 pm Golf: Southern Conference Tournament Country Club of S.C. Florence, S.C.
2 pm Women’s Tennis: Wake Forest Winston-Salem, N.C.
2 pm Tennis: South Carolina Davidson
3 pm Baseball: Catawba Davidson
8:15 pm Student Organ Recital: Gary L. Rowe DCPC

Tuesday, April 20, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
1 pm Golf: Southern Conference Tournament Florence, S.C.
3:30 pm Women’s Tennis: Queens Davidson
7 pm Worship Service DCPC

Wednesday, April 21, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
12 pm Transcendental Meditation Lecture Morrison Room
1:30 pm Undergraduate Testing Program for Seniors Banquet Hall
2 pm Tennis: UNC-C Davidson
3 pm Baseball: Appalachian State Boone, N.C.
4 pm Films: "Harlem Renaissance: The Black Poet" and "Langston Hughes" Honors Center
7:30 pm Drama Department Spring Major Production: "Ah, Wilderness!" (student opening) Hodson Hall
8 pm Transcendental Meditation Lecture Morrison Room

Thursday, April 22, 1976
All Day Fifth Davidson National Stowe Galleries
All Day Women’s Tennis Tournament UNC-CH
10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
7:30 pm YM/YWCA Discussion Group Small Conf. Room
8 pm Drama Production: "Ah, Wilderness!" Hodson Hall
