the davidsonian January 23, 1976

Neighboring communities ignore College, evolve apart from campus, anticipate little need for change

By DAVE KELLER and ROGER BROWN

What do the people of the nearby towns of Mt. Mourne, Hick’s Crossroads, and Derita know about Davidson College? About as much as you know about Mt. Mourne, Hick’s Crossroads, and Derita.

In an attempt to discover just what the people of the rural areas surrounding Davidson do know and think about the college, we, two intrepid reporters, held a series of random (in every sense of the word) interviews with area residents. We assumed that these people had some knowledge of the school and that it affected their lives in some way; in both cases we were wrong.

Of all people interviewed, only those who had personal ties with the college seemed to have any appreciable knowledge of it. In fact, most of those questioned had never even set foot on the campus. Sports events did not even prove to be a drawing card to area residents. Although a number of the interviewees said that their sons went to Davidson games, most admitted that they had never seen a football or basketball game on campus, and did not keep up with Wildcat scores and records. A Mooresville alumnus did say, however, that “if the basketball team wins, people go see them; if not, they stay at home.”

Responses to the question about Davidson’s cultural influence led to the conclusion that, as far as the college’s view is concerned, these rural areas were a cultural vacuum, a comment on Davidson’s concept of “culture.” To those who live and study in Davidson, it may be difficult to realize that the town has residents. Davidson offers next to nothing to those outside the college community; rather, rural residents are oriented toward Mooresville, Kannapolis, and Concord. This fact leads to the conclusion that the town’s insignificance contributes to the college’s lack of impact upon the lives of area residents.

Those interviewed were questioned about their impression of Davidson students; their responses indicated that they had favorable impressions of but little contact with the students (which might explain the matter). Most felt that Davidson students were a good influence on the community. To quote one lady, “College kids make the community a better place. They are more sensible than high school kids. I guess all kids use dope and liquor nowadays but when they get older they can handle it better.” A Mooresville merchant felt that Davidson students were still a good bunch but that “they don’t stand out from other young people as much as they used to. They don’t dress up as much.”

A lakeside storekeeper was a little less positive. When asked his impression of Davidson College, he responded immediately with “sorry football team.” When we questioned him further on the college’s influence he said, “Good influence, but it don’t help me none. I’d be a lot better off if they’d move it over here in front of my store.”

The most negative and lengthy reply was from a lady who almost wouldn’t respond at all; a little perseverance, though, elicited from her this reply to our question about her impressions of Davidson College: Bandwagon All DayMIDWINTERS WEEKEND

Friday, January 23, 1976
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
2 pm - Swimming: William & Mary, Davidson
8 & 11 pm - Pop Film: "For Pete’s Sake," Perkins
TBA - Semi-Formal Dance, Banquet Hall
TBA - Coffeehouse: Robin & Linda Williams, 900 Room

Saturday, January 24, 1976
All Day - MIDWINTERS WEEKEND
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
1 pm - Swimming: Richmond, Davidson
2 pm - Basketball: South Carolina, Charlotte Coliseum
Reception after Game, 900 Room
8 pm - Concert: "Wet Willie," Love Auditorium
After concert - Coffeehouse: Robin & Linda Williams, 900 Room

Sunday, January 25, 1976
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
6:30 pm - Speaker: Dr. John Akers, Banquet Hall, “Bible in Today’s World”

Monday, January 26, 1976
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
All Day - Annual Pictures, Morrison Room

"I heard Davidson was a Christian college, but it’s not any more. Standards and principles are no longer important over there." She cited several reasons for her opinion: drinking, dancing ("...just like at Wake Forest!"), girls in boys’ dorms. Her strongest argument was her case against evolution. "I didn’t come from no monkey, but these colleges are teaching evolution in the classes." She sees a strong correlation between these decaying standards and Communism. All of these moral breakdowns and other changes such as admitting girls are, in her opinion, aberrations from the purpose of the founding fathers of the college.

7 pm - Women’s Basketball: Mars Hill, Mars Hill, N.C.
8:15 pm - Fifth Annual Alumni Organ Recital Series: Paul R. Jenkins, Stetson University

Tuesday, January 27, 1976
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
All Day - Annual Pictures, Morrison Room
All Day - Rehearsal & Production of Drama Workshop, Hodson Hall
9 am - Interviews: Branch Banking & Trust, Chambers
10 am - Open End with Dr. Spencer, Lounge
12 pm - Share-It-With-Your-Brother Meal, Banquet Hall
4 pm - Military History Documentary Film Series, Small Conference Room
7 pm - Worship Service, DCPC
7:30 pm - Basketball: Duke, Durham, N.C.
8 pm - Speaker: Sheikh Rustum Ali of the Embassy of Bangladesh, Morrison Room

Wednesday, January 28, 1976
All Day - Photographs—Thomas Walters, Stowe Galleries
All Day - Annual Pictures, Morrison Room
All Day - Drama Workshop—Plays II, Hodson Hall
TBA - Author: Merle Miller, "Plain Speaking," An oral biography of Harry S. Truman
10 am - Speaker: Sheikh Rustum Ali of the Embassy of Bangladesh, Banquet Hall
4 pm - Film: "Shakespeare: Soul of an Age," Honors Center
7 pm - Women’s Basketball: Anderson, Davidson Junior College

Thursday, January 29, 1976
9 am - Interviews: First Tennessee National Corp., Chambers
9 am - Interviews: Lehigh Portland Cement, Small Conference Room
10 am - Coffee and Cokes, Banquet Hall
8 pm - Basketball: University of California at Santa Barbara, Charlotte Coliseum

The interview which best illuminated the "typical" attitude towards Davidson was from a venerable octogenarian who was casually meandering to some dubious destination. When confronted with a request for his opinions about the college, he articulately responded, "Louder, please!" In order to tap more deeply into his piercing insight, we followed with a question about his impressions of students. After a pensive moment of silence, he declared, "You want to go to Davidson, just go through Cornelius and take a left."