The Price of Davidson, Part One

Anxieties breed in Davidson life

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

Frustration is a part of all of our lives. Most of the time we won’t or can’t admit it. The elements of frustration are complex. Frustration is a very personal feeling and yet at the same time everyone shares a few basic insecurities. On the surface, Davidson College seems to be the type of place where people would not be so frustrated. However, most students refer to the college and the “real world” as two very distinct places with very different problems.

What are the main frustrations of the Davidson student? Dean of Students Will Terry has observed in his experience here that academic frustration is the basic problem of many students. Davidson tends to attract people who are perfectionists and demand a great deal from themselves. Their academic frustrations come when they don’t live up to their own expectations. This problem is reinforced by the structure of the student community. Students tend to react in one of three ways: they make noise and let people know what’s bothering them, they plunge into the system and do well as its leaders, or they withdraw totally—if they can’t be on top they won't be anything. Terry put it this way: “Everyone wants to be a chief and no one wants to be an Indian.”

In many cases, according to the Dean, the more ambitious a student is, the more frustrated he becomes with the setbacks Davidson academia often hands him. Terry also admitted that the smallness of the Davidson community produces a “climate of frustrations.” “Social frustration, too, is tied up with academic frustration,” he said. He mentioned that excessive drinking, vandalism, and drugs were the most often used methods of escape as well as the biggest conflicts with the institution. “We had a group of seniors last year who practically destroyed their hall. And I’m just thankful that as yet no one has drowned in the shower while drunk,” said Terry.

Terry admitted to not being sure how the college could do more in helping people learn to cope with their problems in more constructive ways. He also made a very valid point in that our society has created the myth of the college years as the best and most carefree years in life. According to Terry, the time spent at any college is probably the most decisive time as a person struggles to deal with where he has been, function in the present, and cope with his prospects for the future.

Dr. Meredith Hall, one of the psychologists here at Davidson, takes a very different view of the frustrations of Davidson students. His primary observation was that “Davidson is a very lonely place for most people.” He added, “Most people would have the same problems anywhere but Davidson tends to magnify this type (i.e., loneliness) of problem.” According to Hall, people here have particular trouble dealing with each other. “The people here tend to hide in little boxes. They get stereotyped as a jock, or a big drinker and begin to hide behind the label,” he said.

LXVI, No. THREE
The Davidsonian
October 1, 1976
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

SGA fills spots by in-house elections

By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

Sophomore Sam Crawford resigned as one of the new student representatives on the Educational Policy Committee and became Chancellor of...the Student Government Association. Although he was not actually obligated to give up his EPC post, Crawford felt that due to the amount of time necessary to carry out his new duties he would be unable to perform his EPC role effectively. Sophomore Ed Rees, the former chancellor, has now been appointed Chairman of the SGA Elections Council, whose job it is to see that the mechanics of all student elections are properly organized. Rees stated that he had a week as chancellor. His duties on the Elections Council are expected to be far less time-consuming. When Sam Crawford took over Rees’ position, his EPC post was left open. Senior Peyton Marshall expressed an interest in the job to Bo Baskin and was appointed by the SGA Senate on September 18. Normally a new student EPC representative is given one term to learn about the committee, sit in on meetings without the right to vote, and to formulate his ideas on what educational needs should be met. However, because Crawford’s resignation left the committee with only one student representative (Sophomore [see CONFIDENCE, page 3]).

Article XII of the proposed College Constitution appears in this week’s paper. This article, sometimes called the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities, is to be placed before the faculty to be approved at their next meeting. Article XII is also subject to an SGA referendum later this month. If students are to be governed by Article XII, they must approve it. Approval by students requires a majority “yes” vote in the referendum. If approved by faculty and students, Article XII can then be approved by the trustees and will become part of the College Constitution. The actual idea for a statement of student rights and responsibilities is three years old. The actual document of Article XII was finally drawn up last spring. The document printed here differs in some ways from the document of last spring. Language which had been described by some as “contentious” has been changed.

THIS and other prints will be exhibited and available for sale during Lakeside Studio’s visit Wednesday, October 6.

PE policy still unresolved temporarily

Although still unresolved, the college policy on athletic clothing, lockers, and equipment has been fixed temporarily for further evaluation. The current policy allows students to check out equipment such as bats, balls, gloves, and racquets as always. A towel may be secured through a one-dollar deposit. Towels will be cleaned for no charge. Absent from the list of equipment available to students is athletic clothing. According to Athletic Director Thomas A. Cartmill, clothing will not be made available for the first semester. “No clothing will be issued for the first semester. This problem will be reviewed and a decision will be made after due consultation with a student committee, the administration, and the athletic staff before the start of the second semester,” said Cartmill in a published statement. Equipment available to students will be issued from the Cage in the gym. The Cage will have a staff employee on duty Monday through Friday from 10:30 am to 12:30 pm and from 1:30 pm through 4:00 pm. According to Cartmill, Cage hours will be increased by the use of student help as time goes on. All articles checked out will require the presentation of a Davidson student ID. Unreturned equipment will be billed to the student on a cost and surcharge basis. These costs will be posted at the Cage. “Baskets are available to all students to be used at his or her risk,” said Cartmill. “Transit lockers will be available [see POLICY, page 3].”