April 2, 1976

THE EYES HAVE IT: Spring Frolics begin April 15

By LEON VENABLE

Frolics to feature Pure Prairie group

By CHUCK JONES
Staff Writer

Spring Frolics weekend will begin Thursday, April 15, and will run non-stop through Sunday the 18th. Kicking off the weekend
will be the concert by Pure Prairie League Thursday night beginning at 8:00 pm. The reason for the Thursday night
concert, according to Union Vice President Bob Mayer, was to keep ticket prices within the range of the average college
student.

SGA to study Court space problems

By CHUCK KENNON
Managing Editor

The problem of overcrowding and lack of additional space in eating houses on Patterson Court is being investigated by a
committee for the Student Government Association. Sophomore Phil Caine stated that the final S.G.A. report would be submitted for study
by the Trustees during their spring meeting.

“This year there wasn’t enough space for everyone to get in where they wanted, and the matter is going to
be worse in the fall because many freshmen were unable to select the house of their choice. There is a
long waiting list and unless something is done it will only get worse in the coming years,” Caine observed.

He then said, “Self-selection will work but only if there is enough space for everyone. Without sufficient room on the
court people will become dissatisfied with self-selection. So we are telling the Trustees that if they don’t provide for a
solution they will lose self-selection.” He added that he feels the Trustees are still committed to self-selection and will act
to preserve it.

“In our report we want to examine every possible alternative, including remodeling houses,” said Currie. He continued, “I think the
report will lean toward ideas involving simple construction to add more seating space.”

TENNIS INSTRUCTORS WANTED for Spring or Summer; need good background in playing and teaching. WASHINGTON TENNIS SERVICES at (703) 548-2064,
548-6338. Good to excellent salary. Call.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans Only 6 miles north

“We could take the apartments from house mothers and expand by knocking down a wall or two. A more expensive
way would be to roof in patios, and the most expensive solution would be to build a new house,” Caine
indicated.

Caine indicated that it was unlikely Rusk house would be made into an eating house for next year. “The normal
procedure, such as was followed by those who made Etc., is to organize the house before the self-selection process occurs.
It’s difficult to make a viable house by just gathering people who didn’t get into a previous choice. There wouldn’t
be the feeling of belonging and unity that makes a house go.”

He then said that he understood Ron Scott, director of A.R.A. Slater, wanted to continue to have Rusk at his
disposal to serve as a banquet and meeting site. Caine concluded by stating that “this report will only point out
short-term solutions, but we believe that an immediate handling of this problem is necessary or the self-selection program will be
jeopardized.”Trying to stir up argument or controversy, but to just meet a need.” There will also be a Disco Dance
Thursday night starting at 11:00 pm and going until 2:00 am. On Friday, the center of activities will be Richardson
Plaza, starting with a square dance at 2:00. Dancing will continue all night with a campus-wide dance running from 9:00
pm until 1:00 am, featuring the music of the Brice Street Band.

Saturday’s highlights will include a parade through the streets of Davidson at 1:00 pm that will halt at the baseball
field, where kegs of beer will be tapped. A mini-concert by the group Rosewater Blue will begin at 2:00 pm.
A recent review characterized Rosewater Blue’s music as “consisting of a diverse blend of instruments: six-string acoustic guitar, electric bass,
twelve-string acoustic guitar, acoustic and electric pianos, mandolin, drums, pedal steel, and harmonicas. Their vocals blend a well-refined diversity and
range, assisting their lyrical content by creating a unique air of moods and feelings for their listeners.”

Mayer said that Sunday afternoon would be free, although the Union plans to hold something at the Lake Campus. Wednesday
through Saturday the 900 Room will be featuring Larry Keen and Company.

Walters strives for quality [Continued from page 1]

Walters feels that Davidson’s schedule over the past three or four years has been “very tough and at times.” He
indicated that his strategy for improvement lay in “good solid, sound defense, and good work habits.”

One of Walter’s primary objectives is to salvage as much of the recruiting season as possible. He said it would
require “a lot of work” and said that he could not predict how the season would go, other than that
he would “strive for quality.”

With regards to recruiting, Walters said that he tends to favor the East coast, and indicated that he was not
too familiar with the West. “With a school as academically demanding as Davidson, however, you have to recruit nationwide,” he
said. He said that one aim would be “to recruit some quickness. Quick, able players give you a lot of
flexibility as a coach.”

Walters is pleased about coming to Davidson. “I have a great respect for the tradition that was established by Lefty
Driesell,” he said. “I’m happy coming to a school that maintains a solid basketball program and at the same time
has excellent academics.” “It’s a unique school from that point,” he continued.

Walters sees no conflict between academics and athletics. Cartmill indicated that the college has no intention of lowering its academic
standards to provide for scholarship athletes. Walters will bring his Dartmouth assistants, Gary Dicovitsky and Wayne Morgan, with him. James
Brown, assistant coach under former head coach Bo Brickels, will not remain with the Wildcat program.
