the davidsonian October 29, 1976 By KEVIN WHITE Student ts} favor Ford; faculty, Carter Staff Writer The last poll of
Campaign '76, conducted this past week, revealed no major change in support, with less than a week left before the
election. President Ford’s support remained near the 54 percent level, where it has been for the past month. See the
table below for full details on the results of the poll.

-Hunter Jennings DAVIDSON students prepare to cast their vote.

Although 54 percent of Davidson students will vote for Ford, only 46 percent feel that he will win. In contrast,
51 percent think that Carter will win the election. In the breakdown of Ford and Carter’s support, the poll indicates
that 29 percent of Ford’s supporters feel that Carter will actually win the election. Only 12 percent of Carter’s supporters
feel that Ford will win.

...club sports evaluated [Continued from page 1]

trying to establish is a functioning board of club sports—a stable sort of body to guide the club sports in
the future.” Whatever sort of governing body is established, one of its main responsibilities will be to establish a procedure
and criteria for the charter of any new club sports. Dietler’s committee is also dealing with the matter of financing
for club sports, the main issue being to decide what the source of such funds will be. It also must
be established as to who will be responsible for the allocation of these funds and what the allocation process will
be. Thom Cartmill, when asked if the Athletic Department would have a role in such allocations, replied, “I have no
desire to control the club sports budget.”

Another area of committee consideration is the extent to which the club sports will be able to make use of
gymnasium facilities such as the training room. Currently, use of the training room is restricted to varsity sports with club
members only being granted access for injuries which require specialized care such as whirlpool treatment. Each club is responsible for
meeting its training needs and providing any necessary first aid equipment. The committee is looking into the use of trainers
or qualified student first aiders at club activities. Several of the clubs which engage in contact sports are using their
own funds to establish medical boxes for emergency situations. Closely related to the issue of adequate medical aid for the
club sports is that of insurance coverage, which is also being examined by Dietler’s committee. Currently, club sports are covered
by the comprehensive student insurance provided by the North American Assurance Society of Virginia, but as student participation in club
sports increases nationwide, many insurance companies are beginning to group clubs with varsity sports and refusing to provide coverage. College
Business Manager Robert Currie said, “Insurance companies are taking a second look at whether they will cover club sports. Hopefully,
North American will continue to provide such coverage for the club sports or, as a last resort, a new company
will be found.”

The poll also analyzed the percentage ofOut-of-state residents who planned to vote by absentee ballot: 82 percent said they had
already, or had plans to vote in their home states by absentee ballot. This series of Presidential polls has shown
clearly the wide base of support Gerald Ford has on the D.C. campus. But an independent poll conducted among several
faculty members shows solid (perhaps near 85 percent) support for the Democrat, Jimmy Carter. All faculty members were not polled
so a definite percentage cannot be accurately calculated. In view of this and the national and state-wide polls giving Carter
a clear edge in a majority of states, the average Davidson student does remain unique in giving such a clear
majority to President Ford. The reasons for this support have been explored in other polls: Davidson students are conservative, more
fearful of inflation than unemployment, and critical of Carter’s progressive reforms.

1. Who are you going to vote for in the Presidential election on November 27? [in percent]
- Carter: 33
- Ford: 54
- Maddox: 0
- McCarthy: 4
- McBride: 1
- Undecided: 8

2. Who do you think will win the election? [in percent]
- Carter: 51
- Ford: 46
- McCarthy: 3

CALM DOWN! The term's almost over.
-Hunter Jennings

The primary role of Dietler’s committee is to deal with the current problems surrounding club sports and to establish a
set policy for the future. Since the beginning of this school year, at the request of Cartmill, the committee has
also been serving as an advisory committee on club sports to meet this year’s needs until the Trustees can act
on their report. This has mainly involved the allocation of funds to the clubs for this year. Cartmill has been
serving as “field coordinator” in an effort to resolve scheduling conflicts which arise before a set policy is established. The
club sports committee has a lot of work ahead of it as it seeks to determine the role of the
club sports in relation to the Athletic Department, the student body, and the community in general.

Concerts highlight music convocation
By CATHY LANDIS
News Editor

John Weaver and Wilmer Hayden Welsh will highlight Davidson College’s 17th Annual Sacred Music Convocation November 5-6. John Weaver, head
of the organ department at Curtis Institute of Music, will give an organ recital featuring the works of American composers
at 8:15 pm, Friday, November 5, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Wilmer Hayden Welsh and the choir of the
Davidson College Presbyterian Church will preview Welsh’s new composition, “Mara, A Christmas Antiphon,” at 11:30 am, Saturday, November 6. The
two major concerts of the Convocation are open to the public without charge.

The two-day Convocation is designed specifically for those who work with church music as educators, church musicians, clergy, or laity.
Workshops, lectures, concerts, discussion groups, and social hours are scheduled through noon on Saturday, November 6. Registration opens at 9
am Friday, November 5, in Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Those who wish to attend the complete Convocation should make advance
reservations by Wednesday, November 3. The fee, including meals, is $20 for the general public and $17 for students.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: Race with the Devil. 8 & 10:30 PM.
