October 22, 1976

The Davidsonian

RUGGERS drop a tough one... See story on page 11.

Booters split pair, end season

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

The Davidson soccer team, playing their fourth and fifth games in a period of a week and a half, took on Furman in Greenville last Friday and their final conference battle with Appalachian State at Davidson on Wednesday.

The Wildcats defeated Furman in overtime 2-1, but lost to Appalachian 5-1. In the game against Furman, also a conference foe, the Wildcats could not seem to get untracked—making bad passes, not hustling, breaking fundamental rules—against a team obviously not their equal. Furman scored first when Goalie Doug Schuessler couldn’t find the handle on a shot and a Furman player rolled in the rebound. Davidson retaliated with a head shot by leading scorer Dave Patton on a throw-in from Pete Sluiter on Furman’s narrow field. The second half was scoreless, as both teams appeared to be playing kickball rather than soccer.

Early in the first overtime, freshman Mark Noel headed a high shot into the left corner, and Davidson held on in the remaining overtime period for the 2-1 victory.

Against Appalachian State, the Wildcats played better but came up on the short end of the 5-1 score. Appalachian scored first on a 20-yard shot ricocheting off the back of a teammate, catching goalie Doug Schuessler off balance. The rest of the first half remained scoreless, despite golden opportunities by Davidson. Appalachian’s first score of the second half was a wicked ten-yard indirect kick off the right post. Later, Davidson scored on an equally tough indirect kick by D.C. Augustine, bouncing off the goalie’s hand into the upper corner. Appalachian quickly scored two goals, one after another, on short breakaways, and scored the finishing goal on a tough dropping shot slipping from Schuessler’s hands in the cold and wet.

IMAC report

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

We would like to thank the refs for the libel suits they slapped us with. They fit well and we are wearing them proudly. Besides, they keep out the chill of the oncoming winter.

“Touchdown” Joe Winkle is a legend. Until last week, “Touchdown” Joe had a niche secured for him in the Flickerball Hall of Fame. He saw no reason to worry and didn’t bat an eye as his Fiji #8 team confidently took the field against the feather-brained freshmen War Kiwis. Winkle had pounded out at least one touchdown in 37 consecutive games and was sure of continuing that streak. However, the peewee Kiwis dropped upon him like bird (excrement deleted) and the streak was snapped. In addition, the Fijis were further humiliated when the War Kiwis buried them in a pile, 18-7. The Kiwis offered a high-flying candidate for Rag Man of the Year. Although he will remain anonymous, he did play quarterback.

Jeff Morrow intimidated the high-strutting Gang Bangs when he scored three touchdowns and two joints, leading the fire-breathing team to a 44-0 blowout. Pre-game warm-ups involving deep breathing exercises and the fact that the referees were provided by the Bangs were cited as the main factors in the victory.

The House, impotent but not a bad freshman team, could not muster up enough big plays against Off Again, who withOur luck will never lose... Homecoming pleases most involved

[Continued from page 7]

be a dreary homecoming by opting for what would appear to be the Great Davidson Alternative—camping. Nevertheless, either alternative, staying on campus or going off-campus camping, engendered rumors of pagan fertility rites and liver-corroding recreation. Furthermore, this merriment seemed to proceed unhindered by the loss of the football game. Indeed, most respondents maintained that the defeat made absolutely no difference in their weekend. However, a lone senior economics major was moved to declare that a victorious outcome in the contest would have made a “marginally appreciable difference” in his weekend. 

In sum, while few took the pains to statistically analyze the marginal utility versus the marginal cost of the Homecoming experience, most enjoyed the gratifying dividends on their investments.

RECRUITMENT ANNOUNCEMENT

HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL MBA PROGRAM

William D. Shea, Assistant Director of Admissions at Harvard University’s Graduate School of Business Administration, will be on campus Tuesday, November 2, 1976, to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program. Contact the Office for Experimental Programs & Placement for more details and to sign up for an information session. Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed, or national origin.

Off Again star, Gary Barnes, asked for a “moment of silence,” and ran rampant through The House for one of Off Again’s more subtle touchdowns in its 25-6 victory.

-Irv Wilson

LITTLE WOMAN

Margaret Herman draws a bead before flicking a pass during last week’s IMAC flickerball.

When You Care Enough To Send The Very Best

© 1976 Hallmark Cards, Inc.

HALLOWEEN

It’s October 31

There’s Still Time to
—Send a Card
—Plan a Party
—Ready a Trick and a Treat

Let Us Help. Visit THE VILLAGE STORE Davidson, N.C.

Hoke off Winkie’ Winless

EMBO locked ear lobes with Cannon II in an inconsequential game representative of the lower echelon of the sport. Both teams were simply ghastly; however, Thom Young, dynamic hall counselor for Cannon II, made an appearance in time to spark the bumbling freshmen to a “come from ahead” victory over the incorrigible diners of lowly delights, 31-13.

In what was termed the “most exciting flickerball ever played...” by many old timers, PDT #1 turned Porky Pig into a sizzling heap of bacon. PDT #1 finally prevailed over the woeful hams, 27-20, who turned off the crowds with their wallowing antics. Big Daddy Conosco’s family took an early lead but was unable to hold on as Doggie Style came from behind to pull it out in the end, 41-18. The rabidly-foaming, mangy mongrels came on the field in blistering heat to waste the family of Big Daddy Conosco.

PDT #2 grounded the Flying Phalli in a rare overtime contest. After battling it out to a 19-19 stalemate, the second fiddle PDT team gained the decision by churning out the most yardage in the overtime. Those perennial partiers of old, I Tappa Keg, failed to provide enough bodies for their get-together with sixth Watts, thus placing the victory in the hands of the skyscraping girls from Watts.