November 12, 1976

Thanksgiving.

THE COMING of autumn means the coming of

Come and Try Your Luck!
Annual Turkey Shoot

Wednesday, November 17,
10 am - 4:00 pm.
(Basement of Belk Dorm)
Turkeys for highest
scorer in each of 4 categories:
Female student
Male student
Male faculty and staff
Female faculty and staff

Robert Trawick Rifle Range

YMCA solicits clothes; investigates alcoholism

By CATHY LANDIS
Executive Editor

One of the YMCA’s purposes is community involvement. Toward that end, the Davidson Y has initiated two new programs striking deep into some of the problems which face the Davidson community.

One program seeks to clothe the Davidson needy in clothes discarded by college students instead of those old and out-of-style.

Dana English, an active member of the Y, appeals to Davidson students. “Most of you have a closet full of well-made, carefully chosen, beautifully tailored clothes, yet all we see you wearing on campus are variations on the theme of jeans and shirt (in winter and summer).”

English feels “this is a rather wasteful state of affairs.” She suggests that students donate the clothes they do not wear and do not plan to wear in the near future to people who need them.

The Y plans to make these clothes available to the needy. English suggests, “if you bring back a load of new outfits after Christmas, go through your closet and weed out those ‘borderline’ clothes that have been hanging there awhile. Any size or shape of wearable clothing will be appreciated.”

John McArthur, president of the Y, discusses the second program aimed toward bettering the Davidson community. The Y plans to direct its attention to the problem of alcoholism.

During a meeting that a group of students had with ten townspeople last spring, it was discovered that neither housing, poverty, nor discrimination was the main problem of the Davidson residents “across the tracks.” They found alcoholism at the roots of their problems.

McArthur comments, “with the realization that alcohol consumption is just as much a part of our lives as it is a part of theirs, the Y has set up a workshop to educate ourselves, and to stimulate our ideas for attacking the problem within the Davidson community.”

The workshop is scheduled for Thursday, December 2, at 7 to 10 pm and Saturday, December 4, at 9 am to 5 pm.

McArthur says “the workshop will be directed by a professional from Charlotte who is well-trained in the art of becoming an alcoholic.”

The Y will hold these workshops for free. They are open to everyone. Anyone interested in further details is directed to contact Bonnie Wright for details.

THE COMING of Thanksgiving means the leaving of students.

White brings 900 Room old style, mellow voice

By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Josh White, Jr., combining the old style of performance as a solo guitarist and a straight-backed chair with a rich, mellow voice and intermingled comedy, will perform in the 900 Room Thursday and Friday nights, November 10-11.

Show times are at 9:30 and 11:15 each night, and no admission will be charged.

The son of THE Josh White, Sr., famed musician of days gone by, White has been performing either alone or with his father since age four. He has appeared in major night clubs and in concert throughout the United States, England, and the Scandinavian countries.

Besides entertaining as a musician, he has acted in Broadway plays, and in the movie The Freedom Train, writing the music for the latter. He also has appeared on television numerous times, both in the U.S. and abroad.

Described as “brilliant” by Byron Belt, Critic-at-Large for ‘Rolling Stone’, White is “The Total Entertainer”, combining songs tastefully arranged from every area of musical endeavor, with uproarious comedy material delivered with charming spontaneity.

Certainly talented, White performs both self-accompanied and a cappella—unintentionally or not. Paula P. Caracappa, reviewer for “Good Times”, writes of a time he sang to the tempo of the audience handclapping while changing a broken guitar string during a performance.

Josh White, Jr., presented by the Intimate Performers Committee of the College Union, is a rare treat not to be missed.

JOSH WHITE, JR., described as “The Total Entertainer”, combines talent with innovation.