February 6, 1976

the davidsonian

Rocky Wildcats split week’s games between opponents

By PAUL BANTA
Staff Writer

The Davidson basketball Wildcats picked up their fifth victory of the season with a 74-67 win over the University of California at Santa Barbara last Thursday, but then lost a conference game to East Carolina 88-82 Saturday night.

This loss to ECU, along with Furman’s Monday night win over Appalachian State, put Davidson in the Southern Conference cellar.

The Wildcats’ triumph over the Gauchos from southern California was a result of the improved play of freshman center Tom Dore. Although Dore scored only ten points with seven rebounds, he was double-teamed most of the night which freed Eppa Rixey to pick up some easy baskets.

When the Gauchos tried to adjust their defense to stop the Wildcats’ inside attack they gave up open shots to the Wildcats, who connected on 56.9 percent of their shots.

John Gerdy, hitting on his last eight shots, led the Wildcats' scoring efforts with 23. Jay Powell added 14 while Eppa Rixey finished with 12.

The win over UCSB elicited a number of comments from the Cats. Center Eppa Rixey said, “We’ve known all along that if both of us got going, that we would be tough to stop. Tommy’s play really helps take the pressure off of me.”

Standout Dore also had some comments on the Wildcats’ fifth win: “By sagging in on me, they were giving John (Gerdy), Jay (Powell), and Tommy (Jorgensen) open shots--nobody’s going to beat us like that.”

Coach Bo Brickels echoed the players' sentiments. “It was a good win for us; all our players played well. I thought that if we could stay with them on the boards, that we could take them. We still think that we’re the best team in our league.”

Things went differently for the Wildcats Saturday night in Johnston Gym as they saw their chances for a home court advantage in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament fly out the window with a poor performance against the East Carolina Pirates, as the boys from Greenville, North Carolina, left Davidson with an 88-82 win. The loss to the Pirates, which coach Brickels said, “hurt five times as bad as the rest” came when the Wildcats had been showing signs of improvement.

Davidson jumped out to a quick 8-4 lead at the game’s start, but ECU countered with 12 unanswered points to take control 16-8 with 15:35 to go in the first half. It took the Wildcats the rest of the half to catch up.

A flurry in the last few moments of the opening period put Davidson on top at halftime, 44-41. The Wildcats shot 59.3 percent, but had trouble stopping Earl Garner and Wade Henkel, both of whom had already topped their scoring averages after just twenty minutes.

Repeating their start of the game, Davidson rushed off to a 50-43 advantage, but again ECU tallied 12 unanswered points to build a 55-50 lead. Although the Cats tied the score once and were within one or two points often, they were never to lead again. Every time the Wildcats would get close to taking the lead, Garner or Henkel would add another two points to the ECU total.

Davidson had a golden opportunity with just 44 seconds left and trailing by only one, 83-82, when Eppa Rixey forced a jump ball with East Carolina’s 6’3” Al Edwards. That chance melted when Edwards won the tip, and the Pirates added five more points to set the final score.

ECU’s Earl Garner finished with a career-high 31, while Wade Henkel also had his career-high with 22.

The Wildcats were led in scoring by Rixey with 19. John Gerdy netted 15, and Jay Powell added 14. Senior Tom Verlin came off the bench to chip in 12 points in just 16 minutes of playing time.

Come Browse and see Our Campus Dress-Ups and Jeans

Only 6 miles north

(above) John Gerdy fires against Santa Barbara

Plaza Gift Shop

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”

HOURS: 10AM-5:30PM DAILY

Plaza Shopping Center Mooresville 663-1503

Valentine’s Day Friday, Feb. 14

The Village Store of Davidson N.C.