October 15, 1976

Ove Gavkdeoriies:

KA 1 kills ATO

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S

Displaying the rudeness that has contributed to their reputation as one of the worst teams in flickerball, PDT #3 purposely scheduled their game to conflict with the scheduled debut of OK Chorale with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir.

Obviously depressed, and with their minds on "Though Your Sins Be of Scarlet," OK Chorale put in a performance, which made the sharp PDT #3 team look all the better. In the finis, PDT #3 triumphed, 12-6.

Dirty Old Men found no pleasure in Doggie Style. Expecting to find the path to victory, they failed to rise to the occasion and found only furrows dug by their weathered noses and crooked canes.

Doggie Style found satisfaction in a 40-6 victory.

ATO managed to show up for their game last week but their futile, disordered performance was likened to that of a constipated herd of cabbage plant amoeba cows. The crazy loons of KA #1 mercilessly butchered ATO by the whopping score of 101-0.

CATHY HOWARD of Little Women

The impotent ATO squad even allowed the minute Steve Sellers to “stand up” in the end zone to catch a pass. Next time ATO has a “game,” we suggest they field a men’s team.

Nocturnal Emission came out in the light of day and stuck the Whizz Kids, 40-13. Steve “Peazle head” Porter led the knightly emitters to victory with some spectacular moves. Nobody has ever seen the likes of Porter’s finely turned mustache.

Off Again generated an anti-Delt offense and bulldozed the emaciated PDT #2 team to oblivion, 33-13. Mark Scandling was particularly outstanding as he continually pinned the PDT #2 quarterback, Dick Butkiss, behind the line.

Mill Town Queen Lynn Langley stunned Nag's Nympho’s with her dainty jaunts across the goal line for Little Women. The insatiable Nag’s Nympho’s were repeatedly frustrated in their attempts to jam the Little Women scoring mechanism, and eventually succumbed, 18-6.

After the game it was reported that Nag’s Nympho’s were headed toward Cannon in search of goblets.

In other girls’ action, the lovely ladies of Little League decided to try the big time. Henderson House had a good time at the expense of the aspiring lassies, and flogged them 20-0.

We would like to commend the IMAC referees on their concise reporting of events on the flickerball field. The reports are so concise, in fact, that they tell us nothing but the score.

We would ask that the referees expand their horizons and use whatever imagination they might have to compose a brief summary of each game.

Club Gridders down Catamounts face Duke Blue Devils Sunday

By STAN BROWN
Staff Writer

Behind a high-geared running attack and an inspired defense which continually forced mistakes, the Davidson Club Football team upset the more experienced Catamounts of Western Carolina, 20-3.

After getting the ball in good field position early in the first quarter, the Wildcats broke on top with Bob Bishop scoring on a short run. The conversion failed, and Davidson led 6-0.

The Cats added to their lead in the second quarter when Brad Huggins scored from the Western 18-yard line on a well-executed option. The conversion again failed and Davidson led at the half, 12-0.

The stunting Davidson defense continued to confuse the Catamounts in the second half, and repeatedly stopped Western’s drives. Leading the defensive line, Russ Folger sacked the opposing quarterback for a safety, and forced hurried passes, two of which were intercepted by linebacker George Brown.

The Cats’ final score came in the third period on an 18-yard run-off tackle by Bob Bishop. The Cats play Duke this Sunday at 2:30 pm and look for a greater turnout to continue their winning ways.