Next year’s housing uncertain
Trustees to decide enrollment level
By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

The arrangement of student housing for the next school year depends on a decision concerning enrollment levels which is to
be made at the February meeting of the Board of Trustees, according to Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols.

“I have some tentative plans on who will live where next year,” said Nichols. “But the big issue is whether
or not the Trustees will freeze the enrollment and, if they freeze it, at what level it will be frozen.
My tentative plans will work if we stay around the present enrollment level,” said Nichols.

Nichols’ tentative plans are to house freshwomen in Watts and freshmen in Richardson (except the basement) and Cannon. Upperclass women
could choose from the top three floors of Little and the top two floors of Belk. Upperclass men would live
in Duke, Sentelle, Richardson basement, or the first floor of Little.

Nichols said her tentative room arrangement plans were based on the assumption that there will be four full classes of
women at Davidson next year. “I figure four full classes to be somewhere around 375 women. That’s the number I
come up with by figuring the number of upperclass women here now, subtracting from this the attrition rate, and adding
in the freshwomen who would live in Watts,” said Nichols. “That’s a rough, seat-of-the-pants estimate, but we’ve been estimating so
many years that it will probably turn out pretty close.”

According to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White, no decision has yet been made concerning the number
of freshmen to be enrolled next Fall. “It has not been determined yet how many freshmen we will enroll. That
will be determined by the Trustees. Dr. Spencer (College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.) and I have talked some. My
impression is that we are talking about 110 women and 240 men in next year’s freshmen class. These are rough
estimates,” said White. “My impression is that our enrollment next year will be somewhere between 1250 and 1300.”

According to a report published by the Office of the Registrar this past Fall, there were 707 men and 281
women enrolled in the classes of 1977, 1978, and 1979 when school opened in September. A combination of the Registrar's
figures on the classes of 1977, 1978, and 1979 with the tentative figures supplied by the Admissions Office on the
Class of 1980 gives a rough estimate of total enrollment for next Fall. Depending on the number of students presently
enrolled who do not return next Fall and the number of upperclass transfer students accepted, the figures show that [see
MUNCE, page 2]

The Davidsonian
LXV; No. SIXTEEN
Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036
February 13, 1976

Series change proposed
By BRAD SWALWELL
Senior News Editor

Steps have recently been taken to ensure that Davidson will have a continuing, high-quality Artist Series program, according to an
announcement made by Union President Karl E. Goodhouse. The announcement, made at this week’s Union Board Meeting, revealed that the
Faculty Executive Committee has recommended that the faculty adopt an Artist Series proposal made by Goodhouse and three faculty members.

The proposal, presented to the Executive Committee by Goodhouse and professors Rupert T. Barber, Herb Jackson, and Donald B. Plott,
asks that the Union Cultural Events Committee and the faculty Artist Series Subcommittee be dissolved. The proposal suggests replacing the
two with a joint faculty-Union committee to coordinate funding and programming of the Artist Series. The faculty will vote on
the proposal at its meeting Tuesday, February 17.

“This proposal combines two committees working parallel to each other after the same goal. Both the Artist Series Subcommittee and
the Cultural Events Committee are working for continuing high-quality cultural events,” said Goodhouse. “It is my understanding that the newcommittee
would be funded by both the college and the union. The funds of the two committees would be combined. This
new committee would be responsible both to the faculty and to the Union Board. The new committee, under the proposal,
would have nine members: three members of the arts faculty, appointed by the president; three members of the Union Board,
appointed by that body; and three others, selected by the first six members, from the college community. The committee would
elect its own chairperson.

Goodhouse outlined the past problems which complicated Artist Series programming and led to this proposal. "In the past, the Artist
Series has been funded by the Activities Tax Council. It has always been funded by activities fee money, except once,
two years ago, when the college gave them $10,000. That was a one-shot special deal.

"This arrangement did not allow maximum time to contact and book acts and to plan and program an Artist Series.
Plus, there was not enough money. The Artist Series subcommittee had to go to Activities Tax every year and try
to get funds to operate the next year’s series. You can’t run a series that [see ARTIST, page 9]."

The Artist Series presents cultural programs such as this reading by the Royal Shakespeare Company.

A TENT IN THE HALL?
Housing uncertainty drove this group of students to find their own living quarters for next year.

Coalition plans Black Week, black culture to be featured
By ROGER BROWN, Staff Writer

On April 5-10, "Black Week," a week full of activities representing black culture, will be held at Davidson College. According
to Darlene Cunningham, activities coordinator of the Black Student Coalition, "The purpose is to give blacks something to do, something
to look forward to, and to present part of the black culture to other students."

Black drama, poetry, and dance will be featured during Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday respectively. Thursday night a Gospel music theme
will be developed with four choirs and three speakers being arranged. A movie and a concert are also being considered.

Funding for the week’s activities comes from two major sources. The Black Student Coalition is using its own money, about
$1000 budgeted from the school, and two hundred dollars raised in raffles earlier in the year. The Union’s newly created
Minority Activities Committee is expected to invest over $2000 in the week’s events.

Cunningham expressed dismay that, "Davidson doesn’t offer anything to do for blacks; the races enjoy different things. Big weekends are
oriented towards white students." She feels many of the programming committees of the Union "don’t look toward black sources." This
week will attempt to provide a concentrated period of black-oriented activities.

The other goal of the week is to expose the college community to black culture. "I personally want everybody to
enjoy it, but our major obligation is to the black students."

The activities of Black Week will be spread out over the entire year. This year, however, factors have not allowed
this. Cunningham blames frustration as one of the major causes of the inability to have blended programming of black-oriented events
with the regular calendar of the Union. "Many blacks had the attitude, ‘what’s the use, we'll just leave campus,’ until
ideas for Black Week were thought of. We just didn’t think of it early enough."

Participation by many students is necessary for full utilization of the arrangements being made. Just as blacks participate in the
activities which reflect the culture of other people, the organizers expect Davidson’s students to participate in Black Week. Cunningham said,
"If no non-black students showed, I'd really think they were narrow-minded, biased, and prejudiced."
