the davidsonian

January 16, 1976

BEAUTIFUL DRESSES and lively dance from Festival Folklorico

Fiesta spirits surveyed through cultural dance

By ELLEN SCHLAEFER
Staff Writer

“Fiesta Folklorico” comes to Love Auditorium January 21 at 8:15 pm.

Combining all types of Mexican folklore, the 40-member National Dance Company of Mexico provides entertainment and a great study in
colorful dance.

Operating as a part of the cultural exchange of Mexico’s National Institute of Fine Arts, the “Fiesta Folklorico” has performed
throughout the world.

They are now on a transcontinental tour of the United States and have recently returned from touring Japan.

The company, directed by its founder Silvia Lozano, will present a panorama of Mexican history which includes everything from Indian
ritual dances (like the famous Yagui Indian “Deer Dance”) to popular free-swinging folk dances like the Mexican Hat Dance and
the powerful complicated dances of Veracruz done to the tempos of “La Bamba.”

Accompanying the spirited dancing are mariachi bands, marimba bands, and jarocho music, as well as guitars, early percussion and wind
instruments of ancient Mexico.

Some of the best folk and romantic vocalists of Mexico enhance the two-hour show.

The group will arrive in Davidson with over 250 new and colorful costumes that add to the fiesta spirit of
the evening with a constantly changing swirl of gaiety.

Complete with embroidered lace costumes, headdresses, gowns and garland, their costumes are just a small part of the typical festivity
that is expected in Mexican celebrations.

Consisting of traditional regional costumes from Sonora to Yucatan, this colorful display gives the audience some comprehension of the diversity
of peoples and cultures comprising modern-day Mexico while entertaining them with exciting, exuberant dances characteristic of various regions of the
country south of the border.

The “Fiesta Folklorico” surveys in music and dance 1000 contrasting years of Mexican history, reflecting the changing and varied influences
of Mayan, Aztec, Spanish, French, Chinese, and Yagui Indian origins.

The eight-part show lasts about two hours.

SPANISH FOLK DANCE comes to Love Auditorium January 21.

Renaissance revived
Ligo directs Madrigals

By AMANDA HALL
Staff Writer

A madrigal is a secular song for mixed voices sung in different parts from the age of the Renaissance; the
Madrigal Singers are a mixed group of 20 students who sing madrigals and other classical music.

The group was formed three years ago under the direction of Bill Reynolds because madrigal music requires female voices, is
a favorite form of music of those who know it, and is a lot of fun to perform and hear.

Last year, although she had no prior experience with a madrigal group, Mrs. Chris Ligo took over the directorship when
Reynolds went to France.

The type of music performed by the Madrigals requires a subtlety that a large group could not achieve because declaration
of text and voice intonation are emphasized. Termed “transparent” by Ligo, the music demands more, both vocally and musically, from
each member because, due to the size of the group, it’s hard to lean on someone else to carry one’s
part.

The relationship between a madrigal group and a large chorus can be compared to that of a string quartet and
an orchestra. There is a character difference; the Madrigals perform on a smaller scale, with more detailed expression.

A great deal of music is written for a small, mixed vocal group with the diversity of range and intonations
the Madrigals show. Although they perform some modern music, requests to do light contemporary music like show tunes have been
turned down by the group. Ligo attributes this to her personal preferences.

“That type of music is so accessible that a group wouldn’t need a faculty advisor to perform. Madrigal music gives
people a chance to hear more special music,” she said.

“I’d rather see the beginning of another vocal group than change to popular music,” she continued. “I’d like to see
the Madrigals stay with the traditions of a male chorus—only a mixed group.”

Although the group could form the nucleus of a mixed chorus, Ligo prefers that, because of the type of music
they do, the Madrigals continue even after a mixed chorus is founded.

The Madrigals have performed frequently this year because they have been asked to sing at the Tuesday evening worship service
once a month.

Besides this, they performed for the alumni, the trustees, the Lions Club and the Hopewell Presbyterian Church. Although they usually
do small blocks of music, they did a major performance at Hopewell.

A spring concert has been planned for sometime in April or May in which they will perform Renaissance and modern
music.

At present, there are 11 women and 9 men, but, according to Ligo, the split depends on the voices the
group can get each year. The group has more women than men in it to balance the stronger, louder voices
of the men.

About one third to one half of the members are taking voice, but this is by no means a requirement
for joining the group. Fewer than half the members are original, so new members can adjust easily.

“The group is so small that it doesn’t feel like an ongoing thing. It feels more like starting over again
each fall,” said Ligo.

Normally auditions are held in the fall during the first week of classes and singers can try out for the
Madrigals and the male chorus simultaneously.

But, depending on the need, tryouts are held for specific parts throughout the year. Usually plenty of people try out,
but Ligo has found strong tenors hard to get.

“I think people are afraid to try out,” said Ligo. “They think the Madrigals have fantastic voices, and so defeat
themselves.”
