May 7, 1976

DUBLINER ROBERT NICHOLSON instructs the fencing club in the finer points of foil fencing. -Irv Wilson

Fencing club parries minority sports problem

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

Ronald Colman and Errol Flynn, don’t give up hope! Swashbuckling is alive and well at Davidson College in the form of the newly-formed Davidson fencing club. Begun in earnest at the end of fall term this year, the club owes its existence primarily to Irishman Robert Nicholson, an exchange student from Dublin University.

Nicholson, who learned fencing during grade school in Scotland, wanted to come to Davidson but couldn’t scrape up all the cash he needed; a Davidson alumnus and ardent fencer named Dr. Doug Glasgow (who also learned the sport in Scotland) came to the rescue with finances on the understanding that Nicholson would help fencing get off the ground here. All this year, then, Robert has been teaching the P.E. class, organizing the club, and doing everything in general to promote the ancient sport on campus.

Right now the club is small, about six core members, and is composed of a diverse group: experienced fencers, graduates from the P.E. course, and beginners to whom the uniqueness of the sport has appealed. Nicholson, who was the captain of his home club, said that “a number of fencers have drifted through, but only a few have stuck the whole way. It’s rather slack this term.” He added that the critical period for a fencer is his first six months to a year, when he is just learning.

At this point, the fencers don’t yet have club sport status--they merely fence among themselves. Both Nicholson and coach Sterling Martin, who is in charge of the fencing class, agree that at this point the club is not large enough or versatile enough (Davidson fencers only use one of the three types of sword fighting (foil fencing)) to compete intercollegiately. “In the future,” added Nicholson, “Duke, Chapel Hill and Charlotte fencers could very well provide club-type competition.”

Martin said that the fencing class was initiated on campus about eight years ago with a club in mind. “At this point, though, we can’t hope for another intercollegiate sport,” he stated. Other problems recognized in starting serious fencing support here are lack of electronic equipment (necessary in modern fencing) and of a full-time coach. Martin added, though, that several faculty members were very competent fencers capable of coaching, and said, “I can see a team in the distant future.”

Fencing, however, faces the same problem of most small club sports--it is a unique, elite sport, whose perpetuation depends solely on a few people. Its fate lies in the hands of interested fencers and whatever individual chooses to organize it. Nicholson will be leaving this spring, but he hopes that he can leave some of his love for fencing with him. “Fencing is artistic,” he said, “it has a special flavor; I’d like to see more of it done here, and I'd feel very disappointed if it dropped. The club is at a very critical point now--it has to keep growing or it will fold.”

Social life studied
[Continued from page 3]

A typical Davidson male as reflected in the survey, except the freshman males who underestimated the pattern. Everyone tended to underestimate female dating patterns by responding that the typical Davidson woman dates one or two times a month. With both males and females, the percentage of people dating one person exclusively tends to increase with class. No more than four percent of the respondents have met most of their...dates in the Union. The major percentage meet most of their dates through friends. Over 75 percent of all women reply that most of their dates come from Davidson College, while the highest percentage (40 percent) of upperclass males report the same. The highest percentage for freshman males is 33 percent of their dates from their hometown. Less than four percent of all females report that the most important characteristic in choosing a date is physical appearance. Among men, the percentage citing physical appearance as the most important ranged from nine to 26 percent. For 70 percent of all females responding and 45 percent of all males, personality is the most important characteristic. 

Forty percent of all males have never been asked out by a member of the opposite sex. Ninety percent would have no objections. Sixty-two percent of freshman males, 41 percent of sophomore males, 58 percent of junior males, and 37 percent of senior males always pay for both parties on a date where money is involved. Thirteen percent of freshman women, 40 percent of sophomore women, and four percent of junior women never pay their own way on a date. The typical Davidson student has mostly casual dates, though men have a slight tendency for formal dates. Patterson Court and off-campus are the places most females go most often, while the major percentage of the males go off-campus most often. No more than six percent of the men and 15 percent of the women have most of their dates at the Union. 

Seven percent of the sophomore females (who date more than anyone else) report that dating does not interfere with their academic life. The figure rises to 19 percent for junior males and females. Ten percent of all students feel family pressure to date, while 15 percent feel peer pressure. On Big Weekends, 65 percent of the women and 39 percent of the upperclass men attend activities with someone from Davidson; 19 percent attend with someone from another college. The responses of male freshmen are spread evenly between the college, their hometown, and other colleges in the area. Thirty-six percent of all males and 58 percent of all females would feel reluctant to attend a big weekend concert alone. 

A space for additional comments was on the questionnaire. Six of the respondents remarked on the fact that there was no definition of dating given. Some form of dissatisfaction with Davidson social life was expressed by 28 percent of the respondents. Several people mentioned the lack of a strong fraternity system as a factor in their dissatisfaction. A good number agreed with one freshman male who wrote that "not enough girls are available." Several people complained that they are labeled as someone’s property after one date. Some feel that Davidson women are not attractive enough. Many cited a "conservative" dating situation as a problem. A sophomore female wrote of a "prejudice against singles," citing the higher cost a single person must pay at some functions.

Davidson Town Day
Mother’s Day Cards and Gifts
Sunday, May 9

When you care enough to send the very best.
© 1975 Hallmark Cards, Inc.
The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

POP FILMS PRESENTS:
The Paul Newman Production of the 1971 Pulitzer Prize-winning play
[PG] Color By De Luxe
Friday, May 7 at 8 & 10:30 P.M.
Love Auditorium
Admission-$1.00

Your Mother's Day Shopping Center is at
Smith Circle, Cornelius — 892-7800

Davidson College Stage Band
Contemporary Jazz Concert
Sunday afternoon, Belk Plaza
In Case of Rain—Hodson Hall