April 9, 1976

JOHN STANFIELD tips his hat to the crowd as he crosses the bar in the high jump in a recent
track meet.

Netters head Southern Conference

By MARK SCANDLING
Staff Writer

Last week’s 6-3 victory over Harvard University transformed the Davidson Tennis Team’s season from a good one into what Coach
Jeff Frank hopes will be a great one.

The team followed up its victory over Ivy League competition with two important wins over Southern Conference opposition. The team
downed The Citadel 6-3 Saturday, and they upset powerhouse Furman U. 5-4 Monday.

These two victories vaulted Davidson to the top of the Southern Conference standings with a 3-0 record.

The match with Harvard was a turnaround point in the season according to Frank because “it was the first time
the doubles actually won a match for us.” After the singles, the score was tied 3-3, and the doubles were
crucial for they would determine the outcome of the match.

The Cats withstood the pressure and swept all three doubles to secure a 6-3 victory.

A weekend trip to Charleston to face the Citadel Bulldogs proved fruitful for the Cats. The team came home with
a 6-3 victory over one of the top four teams in the conference.

Frank felt the match was important, for it was the team’s first tough away match of the season. Chip Bondurant
and Mike Barnhill both lost their singles matches, but the Cats swept the remaining four singles matches to take a
4-2 lead into the doubles.

Once again the doubles were crucial because they would determine the outcome of the match.

Stan Boswell and Chip Bondurant teamed up to win the No. 1 doubles match in the third set. However, they
did it the hard way, as they found themselves behind 4-2 in the tiebreaker. Behind Bondurant’s power serve, they won
three straight points to edge the Bulldogs 5-4.

This victory by the 1975 Conference runner-up No. 1 doubles clinched the match for Davidson.

Coach Frank’s biggest thrill as a coach was winning the Conference championship in his first year as coach at Davidson.
But Monday’s stunning upset of the Purple Paladins from Furman is his greatest satisfaction from a single match effort.

The netters had been looking forward to the Furman match all year. Furman is this year’s conference powerhouse (they already
defeated Appalachian State, the 1975 conference champs) and the Cats were gunning for the upset. Everyone performed superbly in defeating
Furman, but Frank singled out the performance of No. 2 singles player Barnhill. Frank termed Barnhill’s victory as “one of
the highlights of the season.” Barnhill’s opponent was Hap Core, last year’s No. 1 high school player in N.C. Barnhill
played smart and consistent tennis to defeat Core in straight sets 6-2, 7-6. John Mitchell, who has the best record
on the team, and Steve Homan, also defeated tough opponents. These victories sent the Cats into the doubles round in
a 3-3 tie. The combined talents of Boswell and Bondurant proved to be too much for their Furman opponents, as
they won the No. 1 doubles in three sets.

Homan and Steve Johnson form the No. 3 doubles, and they won in straight sets, giving the Cats a 5-4
victory.

Frank feels the team peaked against Furman, and that it would be hard for them to play much better.

The netters cannot afford to slide from their peak form, as tough matches with Appalachian and Richmond loom ahead in
the near future, according to Frank.

24 teams compete in Davidson relays

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

This Saturday the Heath Whittle Track will be the scene of the 17th Annual Davidson Relays Track Meet.

With 24 teams entered, this year’s meet will be the largest yet, and, according to track coach Sterling Martin, “probably
will be the biggest track meet ever held in this area.”

Based on previous performances, some of the strongest teams competing will be Appalachian State, Berry College, V.M.I., and Towson State.
Other teams entered include The Citadel, Wake Forest, Georgia State, and defending champion Western Carolina.

Included in the meet for the first time this year will be the 440-yard intermediate hurdles, the masters mile for
men over 30, and seven women’s events. The events for women, which will be scored on an individual basis only
and not by team, include the 100-yard dash, 440-yard run, 880-yard run, mile run, 880-yard relay, long jump, and high
jump.

About the Wildcats’ chances, Martin said “we should have a number of strong individual performances, although I don’t believe we
will win.”

Davidson won the meet the first five years of its existence, but the Cats have only won once since then.

Some of Davidson’s top performers this year will be Doug Horne in the steeplechase, Fred Borch and Coty Pinckney in
the six-mile, and John Stanfield in the high jump.

Also for the first time this year, the general public will be charged admission, $1.00 for adults and $.50 for
children; Davidson students with I.D.’s get in free. The meet will begin at 9:30 A.M. and coach Martin urges anyone
who would like to help officiate and set up the meet to see him.
