Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

December 3, 1976

The Davidsonian

COFFEE AND COKE lovers will have to dodge netters.

By O. HOWIE PHARTZ
Staff Writer

As I returned from Thanksgiving break, lusting for some of the great Davidson traditions that I missed during that week,
I was shocked and dismayed to find the Chambers Banquet Hall locked after I returned from my traditional 10 o’clock
trek to the P.O. It was Thursday morning, and that meant Coffee and Cokes. I immediately rushed to Peter Clark’s
office and demanded, “Where’s the coffee and coke?” It was then that I learned of the ongoing construction in the
Banquet Hall. At that very moment, workers were busy renovating. But for what? Was the long-promised art gallery finally to
be had? Peter calmed me and arranged for a meeting with Dr. Spencer. I could imagine Herb Jackson jumping for
joy at the thought of an art gallery and possibly the return of the National.

Upon entering President Spencer’s office, my excitement could not be contained and I blurted out, “Does the Banquet Hall construction
mean that the National will return to Davidson?” Dr. Spencer mustered a grin and simply replied, “You know that we
are proud of Davidson and the fact that it is a liberal arts college. For that reason, I decided to
go ahead with the renovation. We just couldn’t wait any longer, particularly with the onset of cold weather.

“If we are to retain our national stature as an institution of high quality, then there is no doubt in
my mind that we do need the Davidson National.” I quickly asked if Herb Jackson would be the full-time director
of the National. “No,” Dr. Spencer replied, “we don’t feel that a full-time director is called for. H. Edmunds White
has agreed to take the job, in addition to his duties as Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid. He is
the logical choice for the position, and I’m sure that we can get Chris Evert for the first match.”

Having never heard about the artistic talents of either Mr. White or Miss Evert, I couldn’t help but question Dr.
Spencer’s last statement. “You didn’t know? Peter didn’t tell you about the renovation of the Banquet Hall?”

Wood takes a suicidal leap, searches new experiences

By EARL BUTZ
Loose Shoes, etc.

“Contemplating life, how it is and how it should be, I decided the only thing man could be sure of
is death.” So reads Ken Wood’s suicide note. The note, written for his secretary Suzie Summers, was found in a
Peanuts card saying “Thinking of You.” Unfortunately, Summers was unable to relate the news due to her subsequent suicide. Captain
Hughes found Summers after rushing in upon hearing the anguished cry, “Oh happy letter opener...”

Ken committed his dreadful act on Thanksgiving Day by jumping off the fire tower because he couldn’t find a mountain.
As Ken wrote in his letter, “It’s not until you’ve known the highest mountain that you can appreciate the lowest
valley, or something like that.”

Dr. Workman tried to discern the true motives behind Wood's rash act. “People just weren't looking up to me anymore.”
Looking around at the Davidson student body, Ken felt many might feel equally bummed out. “Like man, I could start
an extern program.” But Ken soon became discouraged when he tried to work out transportation. “Then, looking at the student
body I just knew it was a bad trip. I mean I just feel washed out here. Things have just
gone down since Kent State.”

Hub owner wants to get into new meat

Ralph will ‘Rub’ ‘em raw

By MAGIC FINGERS

Ralph Quackenbush, former proprietor of ‘The Hub,’ announced today that he will not open a furniture store as announced but
will rather open Davidson's---

First massage salon, “The Rub.” “I decided that Davidson needed something like this,” Quackenbush said with a chuckle, “This town
has been run too long by old ladies who read Reader's Digest.” According to Quackenbush, not only will his emporium
be Davidson’s only massage parlor but it will be the area’s first store-front rub shack. “Yeah, I'm going to conduct
all ‘business’ right there in front of those windows. You parents may want to keep your kids off of the
street during business hours,” he said. When asked about his decision to open such a business, Quackenbush said, “Well, it’s
something I’ve been doing in my spare time all along. This way I can do what I like and make
a living at the same time.” Concerning the college’s reaction to his venture, Quackenbush said, “Well, I should hope that
they’d be pleased. After all, Williams College has one.” He added that he hopes he will be able to set
up a work-study contract with the college. “Wow, I'd really love to have some of those cute pre-med coeds working
here,” he said. “I’ve been swamped with applicants from Queens, but I’d really like to have some Davidson students, too.”

Into an indoor tennis court? As you know, this has been very high on our priority list. It gets cold
out on the courts in December. H. Edmunds is even beginning to get a touch of rheumatism from this foolishness.
I believe that this decision will bring Davidson to the apex of the tennis world. Buck Lawrimore should be getting
out a news release shortly about the endowment for the new National. This National will bring real prominence to Davidson.
I’m sure that we'll get a big write-up in Tennis World.

“It really was a coincidence that money to endow the National came around so soon after we decided to start
looking. The Kresgee Foundation offered us $300,000 and Nick Burnett didn’t mind giving the money up for our National. He
said that Martin Science building could wait and that chemistry department chairmanships are hard to come by these days. The
endowment should provide plenty of money for prizes, and the Davidson National should become the most prestigious meet in the
nation.”

This was really too much. So I excused myself and made my way to the office of Dwayne Dittman, the
new Vice President for Development. Hopefully, he could tell me more about why the decision was made and where the
money is coming from. I attempted to get him to comment on the use of the Kresgee funds in such
a manner. “Oh, not all of the money for the National endowment came from the Kresgee grant. Ed Rees, the
ex-chancellor of the SGA, was over here just a few days ago with a check for $117. He seemed pretty
happy to get rid of it and it was a generous contribution.”

WHERE AM I GOING? What am I doing here? He wanted to make sure Davidson believed he wasn’t copping out.
He also wanted to make sure no one took the blame but himself. “Don’t worry, Mom,” he wrote, “It’s not
your fault.” It was the trivial matters that sent him over the railing. “My wife wanted me to grow a
mustache, my kids kicked me in the ankles, and to top it off, I saw a dead sparrow. I mean,
it’s just been the pits.” So Ken jumped. He was almost saved by College Registrar Richard C. Burts who was
standing at the bottom of the tower. “I wanted to catch the big lug, but my hands were tied,” Burts
commented. After deciphering the letter, Workman concluded Williams College to be the dominating force behind Wood’s move. The head of
the Office of Bookworm Affairs shot himself on Halloween.

Mooresville, Phone KING OF PIZZA, INC. 241 South Broad Street North Carolina 663-3030
