October 6, 1976 ~~ Letters to the Editor

To the Editor:

As a new recruit of the cold, cruel world, I have to admit that I was pleased to receive a complimentary issue of the Davidsonian. It was one of the few times I have ever read it from beginning to end! Even though the subscription price is the same as a seven-month subscription to Playboy, you can count me as a subscriber.

One of the articles in your first edition covered a very controversial topic, the yearbook. It seems strange to me that during my four years at Davidson, I could count on finding a copy of the Davidsonian at my door, week after week, (I might add that even when I spent my junior year abroad in France I had some belated access) yet during that same period only two yearbooks were published. Granted, one edition of the yearbook is a lot more complicated and time-consuming than one edition of the paper. However, if one edition of the paper should fail to make deadlines, the paper does not roll over and play dead. Granted also, the yearbook is a one-shot deal, and past late editions must eventually be accounted for. However, this itself is a strong argument that steps must be taken to prevent the present situation from ever happening again. The simple fact is that the 1975 editor had too much power in his hands. His only incentive was that we, the students, were expecting a yearbook.

What is needed is some coordinating body that assures all campus publications run smoothly. However, I do not believe that student publications should be taken out of student hands entirely. The ideal situation would be a centralized publishing house on campus that can handle all publications, including the Wildcat Handbook, the Davidsonian, the Davidson Update, Quips and Cranks, The Miscellany, the catalog, and publicity brochures. Such an entity would leave autonomy to the individual publications in policy and material, but would act as a supervisor and coordinator. More specifically, why not put all publications under the same roof and invest in printing equipment that all could share? Of course, this initial investment would be great, but eventually, it would save money. It is always the first step that costs. The efficiency of this system has two tremendous advantages: (1) There would be someone to whom future editors must answer if they fail.

Let this sink in. These days a blood transfusion that's given to save a life can cause a death. Because. Though there are many reputable commercial blood banks, blood from commercial sources is, unhappily, ten times more likely to be the cause of hepatitis than is blood from The American Red Cross and other community blood banks that depend upon volunteer blood donors. Shocking? Of course. So, you ask, why doesn't all blood in American hospitals come from volunteer donors? Answer: A mere three percent of all Americans are donating one hundred percent of all the blood that’s freely given in America. It’s not enough. So, you see, if you're healthy, fit our easy criteria for donors, and yet don't give blood regularly — well, you're part of the blood scandal in America. By default. One more thing: if you think the Red Cross “gets money” for the blood you donate, you're wrong. The only charge that's ever made is to help meet the cost of processing the blood. So call the Red Cross — then roll up your sleeves. Please. To keep people you know alive and well.

Your opportunity is coming soon!
Wednesday, October 13
Chambers Banquet Hall
Donor time: 10:00-3:30

Centralization of publications urged

No vote for

To the Editor:

I did not cast a vote for Belk dorm senator. It was not out of protest, or even apathy. I went to the post office to pick up a ballot and vote. ScanningThe list of names, I only recognized one. Was I out when all the prospective senators came knocking at my door to get my vote? Were they too shy to put up campaign statements in our bathroom? Only one person put up posters, and these posters said nothing. I wonder about senators who are too busy to campaign, and especially I wonder about a senate which is failing in their duty.

(2) The cooperation among the various publications would prevent time-consuming repetition and ease organization. For example, the pictures that go in the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and the Update would all be within an arm’s length. The class pictures in the yearbook could be assembled in fraternity composites and thus make money themselves. There would not be a series of middlemen, and of course no publishing for profit. The advertising for the newspaper and for basketball brochures could be centralized. The list goes on forever. There certainly is enough publishing done on campus to make such a venture worthwhile. If the right people are found to manage it (a staff of both students and professionals), and if the financing could be found, I firmly believe the results would be admirable.

Hal Huntley '76
Charlottesville, Va.

Senator elected in this way. Here is my theory. No true democracy can operate in this way, so all of these senators are communists. These people, assisted by others already in the senate, will be in the majority by the next meeting. All of our senate money will be funneled into Moscow: the sickle and hammer will be taken out of someone’s bottom drawer and displayed proudly in the senate offices; then certain students will start disappearing... Well Davidson, you can breathe easily for a while yet. I think the communists have reviews next week.

Carol Watkins, '77
Davidson College

Facetious bomb threat

To the Editor:

I wish to thank those God-fearing, peace-loving Christians who so ably defended my freedom of will, my right to choose and plot my own course, irregardless of what constellations may guide me. Luckily, I, too, am a Christian and recognize that the real issue is my freedom of choice, not (as some have mistakenly suggested) what options exist for me to choose from. Thank God that America has seen fit to preserve mankind’s oldest and most respected right—the right to keep and bear arms in order to prevent incursions upon my freedom of choice. Thank God Americans have the option to study war, to perfect the art whereby we may destroy our race more efficiently. Thank God that He protects me with His almighty sword, and not His inseparable love (Romans 8:38-39) since everyone knows you can’t fight wars by turning the other cheek (see what happened to Neville Chamberlain?). We should be proud of those who devote their lives to studying war, risking their lives daily so we can attend the church of our choice and hear “Peace on Earth, goodwill towards men” and “love your enemies” on the Lord’s Day, or any day we choose. Of course feeding the hungry and clothing the naked are worthwhile, but since America and the West alone are aware of this, we must maintain our powerful armies to prevent the domination of non-Christian powers over such peace and freedom-loving peoples as ourselves. Why, look at Chile! Thank God America intervened when she did, and helped overthrow the savage, repressive, totalitarian Allende regime, one that completely denied the dignity of man and his natural freedoms, and instituted instead the liberating, enlightening and just hand of the present military leader.

BRD: Jay Miller, '79
Davidson College

P.S. Above all, let us thank God for His ultimate gift to a wise and free America: the Bomb.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.