February 13, 1976 \ The Davidsonian

Hero's honey hopes, longs for lover's lips
By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Looking out over the vacant sea, her longing grew deeper. The months they had been separated seemed to pass more
quickly than did this day. She dreamed of letting herself fall into his arms as soon as his ship was
berthed. Why did he not return to her? He was due in port yesterday. Doubt started creeping into her consciousness.
No, she mustn’t think like that. Whirling on her high heels, she went into the house and up the steps
to her room. She must not think of him until he has returned. Besides, she must hurry if she is
to be ready to find another lover.

Those poor unfortunate creatures of the silver screen are our subjects.
1. —— became the Wolfman when the moon was full.
2. Who played Igor in The Bride of Frankenstein?
3. What was the major ingredient in the Mummy’s life-giving elixir?
4. Who were they in Them?
5. What finally contained the Blob?
6. —— was Dracula’s henchman.
7. Do you recall the first name of Dracula?
8. Cologne attracted what nefarious creature?
9. Give the three actors who have portrayed Quasimodo, the Hunchback of Notre Dame.
10. Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi portrayed what two characters in The Black Cat?

Kathy Black and Catesby Jones, a married duo from Boston, will bring their show of music and conversation to the
900 Room this week, playing two shows tonight, Friday and Saturday nights. The pair, who also played a show after
the game last night and who gave an impromptu concert in front of Belk Tuesday afternoon, describe their act as
consisting of “original music and innovative versions of other musicians’ work.” They also stress a good audience rapport in their
program.

Featuring just their two guitars and voices, Black and Jones have been playing at clubs in Boston for over a
year and have recently begun a national college tour. Black, who hails from Michigan, has a voice which is equally
at home in folk, blues, and funkier styles of music; her husband, originally from Kentucky, is mainly a guitarist, but
his voice is also impressive and blends well with his wife’s. About their music, the pair says, “through our music
and performance we are trying to help others to find the freedom of expression that enables one to attain self-acceptance
and fulfillment... a goal we seem to be chasing eternally.”

Old and new ways conflict in ‘Lies’
By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

The conflict between the old way and the new way is a theme that runs through many twentieth-century stories, as
it illustrates the disorientation of modern man brought about by rapidly advancing technology. This theme is often personalized by showing
the relationship between two people representing different generations and different ways of looking at things. This conflict is the basis
of Lies My Father Told Me. The film is based on a short story by the Canadian writer Ted Allan,
which, since it first appeared in print, has also been transformed into a radio play and a television show. This
latest incarnation as a film was directed by the Czech filmmaker Jan Kadar from a screenplay by Allan. At first,
the film seems to be a typical, almost stereotyped piece of modern romanticism: a young boy...and his idealistic grandfather are
trapped in the environment of a Jewish ghetto in Montreal in the 1920s. But, as the film continues, the idyllic
mood becomes undermined by a squalid realism which becomes more and more assertive, and the degree of its strength ultimately
leaves one questioning the motives of the artists and the integrity of the film itself. The problem could be stated
in terms of the title: who is actually lying? The title refers to the feelings of the young boy, and
it is primarily from his viewpoint that we see the action of the film. The father "lies" to the boy
(or so the boy thinks) through his pragmatic, capitalistic nature. He is an inventor, which in itself is not pragmatic,
but he thinks of his inventions in terms of money. His negative image is reinforced through the somewhat ludicrous nature
of his inventions: things like creaseless trousers and expandable cufflinks. The house in which the boy and grandfather live along
with the father and mother (the latter the grandfather’s daughter) is a drab environment of differing shades of brown; the
film takes on an almost monochromatic aspect in the interior scenes. Family life is frantic: nobody listens to anybody else,
and there are few sentences completed without an interruption. In contrast, the scenes in which the boy and the grandfather
are out alone on the grandfather’s wagon (he is a rags-and-bottles merchant) are filmed in vibrant color. We see long
shots of the wagon rolling through a park while, over the soundtrack, we hear the grandfather answering the boy’s metaphysical
questions in Talmudic language. Kadar and his cinematographer Paul Van Der Linden have a strong feeling for the idyllic, and
it is these scenes with their visual richness and brightness which are the highlights of the film. But reality encroaches,
and, as it does, the film’s basic conflict becomes clear. In a moment of euphoria, the grandfather capitulates to some
degree to the father, and the boy’s faith begins to crumble. It is renewed for a short period, but then
suddenly, the grandfather is gone. However, if the grandfather’s way of looking at things is the true way, then his
influence on the boy should be strong enough to keep his spirit alive. But that is not the feeling which
is conveyed: as the film ends, the boy, who is hiding, sees a tableau of the grandfather and his wagon
that fades from brilliant hues to the dull brown of an old photograph. In addition, the stable where the grandfather
keeps his horse has been changed, notably, into an antique shop. The father’s last line is, “There’s going to be
some changes made around here”; one gets the feeling both that he means it and that the changes are not
of a positive nature. The boy, hiding in a loft and looking at the harsh, snow-covered streets through a swinging
door, is left utterly alone. Perhaps all this is just Allan and Kadar attempting to be realistic. But even so,
the ultimate mood of the film clashes with what had earlier been the dominant mood. It is as if we
had been seeing the harshness of the world through a filter that had been suddenly taken away, and that the
view had not enriched us but rather deluded us, leaving us frightened and ineffectual. Whatever the motive for this effect,
the film has to be counted as a powerful and high-quality work. The performances are excellent, with Yossi Yadin very
convincing as the grandfather. The performance of Jeffrey Lynas as the young boy is notable for its frankness: here we
have not the lovable Shirley Temple-style tyke, but rather a realistic six-year-old who is sometimes selfish and hateful. As I’ve
tried to indicate, Allan and Kadar have undertaken a risky endeavor with this film. Perhaps my reaction to its content
is highly arbitrary and unfair; at any rate, Kadar and Allan should at least be credited with facing the issue
which they raised instead of hiding behind pure idealism.
