February 6, 1976

the davidsonian

Outside perspectives
“F” equals “0”

The University of Massachusetts at Amherst, where there are more A’s given than any other grade, has started to count F’s as zeros in computation of a person’s grade point average.

New party formed

Wallace as vice-president.

A new political party, the Independence Party of North Carolina, attempts to rally a large voter turnout in this state’s national elections.

Hoping to organize a platform to deal with the crisis within the building industry, dignity for the aged, joblessness, education, crime, interest rates, and the ever-rising cost of food and utilities, the party will slate Ronald Reagan for President of the United States and George Wallace as vice-president.

Chain stores compete

Six restaurant chain stores are currently submitting bids to take over the food service at West Virginia University in Morganton.

The six are Bonanza, Burger Chef, Lum’s, Hardee’s, McDonald’s, and Saga Food Service.

Dean Avinger

[Continued from page 1]

MacCormac cited the recent Rocky River project as especially successful. He praised both students and faculty who worked on the project.

Avinger, also commenting on the Rocky River Project, said: “It brought in hard science and social science together and it was a good program.”

“The role of the Honors Center is not just an elitist preserve, but as an enlightening institution for the entire campus,” he said.

He pointed out that the Center often had films and speakers for everyone and that attendance from students varied from one to about ninety.

“I see the role of the Honors Center as not to deprecate with a department or to compete with a department but to offer an alternate track for the interests of students,” said Avinger.

“The Honors Center is not separated from what’s across the street. Its function is to stimulate the intellectual life of Davidson College, not just the Honors Center,” said MacCormac.

Courses there are not strictly for honors students. Preference is given first to honors students, then to students within the major, but if students feel qualified, there are courses available for them at the Honors Center.

“I’m generally disappointed that many students don’t avail themselves of departmental honors,” he said.

“However, I was surprised how little badgering of students had to be done. They generally worked well, and the faculty worked well.”

The duties of the Honors Dean include “selecting faculty and students, organizing the programs, teaching, actually a little bit of everything,” said MacCormac.

“I’m afraid that with my work in the Honor Center it will mean having two half-time jobs,” said Avinger, “and as you know two half-time jobs never equal a whole, it’s always more.”

“I see my main duties, however, as administrative. I'll be formulating programs, selecting students and staff and evaluating students,” he said. “I also want to try and get financial support for the Center and that’s always a tough job.”

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

Jackson requests help

[Continued from page 1]

The search for sponsors for the show, and the search for a qualified juror each year have to be done by someone who knows the ins and outs of the art world and the people he is dealing with, according to Jackson.

In repeated letters to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., Jackson requested the addition of a new faculty member to the Art Department. He maintains that “the need for a new faculty member in the Art Department is unrelated to the Davidson National, but would have been essential if he were to devote more time to the project. The new faculty member’s duties would have included helping with the National to a degree,” but teaching would be his primary function. Jackson has indicated that whether the college funded the National or not, it would not continue to run under his direction. “I have made the conscious decision,” he said, “to put my time and effort into other areas. I must have that time.”

“Spencer indicated that he didn’t want the show to end when I told him last fall,” continued Jackson. “He asked how we could keep it. Even though I did not wish to continue, I reluctantly made a proposal of conditions under which it might be possible. When I was told they were unable to be filled, I accepted that.”

The National has acquired a great prestige over its five years in existence. It has cost the College very little in that time. “If the National had paid for itself completely, I would have been happy,” said Jackson. As for the artists who have competed for awards, “I could go to Jansen’s Art History and show you people who’ve been thrown out and whose work we’ve hung and some of whose work we’ve got.”

Leon Venable

GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION

Guide to more than 250,000 Scholarships and Financial Aid Sources — items valued at over $500 million dollars.

Contains the most up-to-date information on:

Scholarships, grants, aids, fellowships, loans, work-study programs, cooperative education programs, and summer job opportunities; for study at colleges, vocational and technical schools, paraprofessional training, community or two-year colleges, graduate schools, and postgraduate study or research; funded on national, regional, and local levels by the federal government, states, cities, foundations, corporations, trade unions, professional associations, fraternal organizations, and minority organizations. Money is available for both average as well as excellent students, both with and without need.

BENNETT PUBLISHING CO.
Dept. 214, 102 Charles Street, Boston, Mass, 02114.

Please rush me ____ copies of GUIDE TO MONEY FOR HIGHER EDUCATION at $5.95 plus 50c for postage and handling for each copy.

I am enclosing $________ (check or money order).

Name

Address

City

© Copyright 1976 Bennett Publishing Co.