December 3, 1976

Riser’s application rejected, kinship claims stir scandal

A high school senior from Anaheim, California, who claims to be related to College President Dr. Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
has been denied admission to Davidson College.

The young man, Adolphus Maxwell (A.M.) Riser, admits that he is not sure what his relation to Spencer might be.
He bases his belief that there is a relation on childhood memories. “I remember lying at my mother’s bosom as
a very small child and looking up to see a man with shifty eyes looking down on me. He always
wanted to make sure that things were going all right. Nothing passed him by, he had some suggestion about how
to do every little thing,” said Riser. “I believe it was this man’s strict attention to even the most trivial
detail that finally caused the break-up between him and my mother. As I grew older, my mother would often say:
‘That man was so into everyone else’s business, it nearly drove me crazy. He was even concerned about the height
of tree limbs in the municipal park down the street,’” continued Riser.

The Admissions Office would not say why Riser was not granted admission to Davidson. The applicant had a straight A
average in high school, was near the top of his class, and was active in community service. These credentials did
not impress Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White. “Credentials are not nearly as important as who the applicant is, who
his family is, what kind of a person he is,” said White. “Obviously this Riser boy was not the kind
of quality Davidson wants.”

When reminded of Riser's claim that he was related to President Spencer, White paled. Gaining his composure, White passed off
the possibility of there being a relation between Spencer and Riser as ‘preposterous’. “This boy's claim that he was closely
related to Dr. Spencer was a cheap trick to gain admittance to Davidson College. I admire the fellow's spunk but
it is not the first time someone has tried the same trick,” said White. “Statistically we cannot be sure that
this boy is not related to Dr. Spencer, or even that this boy is not Spencer's son. If he is
Spencer's son, however, he would have had to have been born out of wedlock. My faith in Dr. Spencer's judgment
allows me to rule this possibility out,” continued White.

When asked about the incident, Spencer himself admitted that he was “bitterly disappointed” that Riser had not been accepted at
Davidson. “I have known young A.M. for many years. I dislike it when someone I am well acquainted with is
not allowed to come to Davidson. A.M. is a fine boy and I believe he will do well wherever he
ends up,” said Spencer unemotionally.

Riser was admitted to Williams College, a small coed liberal arts college in Williamstown, Massachusetts. Apparently, upon his acceptance there,
Riser wrote Davidson College. The cryptic note was very short and simply said: “If Williams can do it, why can't
you?”

Coeds assist fund-raising program

CARNEGIE GUEST HOUSE—center for coed-alumni interaction

A new fund-raising program has been designed by the college administration. This program will involve selected Davidson coeds who will
work with Trustees and wealthy Alumni on a one-to-one basis to enlarge their understanding of Davidson’s new thrusts in all
areas of academic and social endeavor. Director of the Annual Fund Tom Bernhardt, coordinator of the program, commented, “I'm really
enthusiastic about this new money-raising idea which was basically the brainchild of President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Zach Long.
In order for an alumnus or other interested party to feel confident about making a donation, he must be exposed
not only to the larger aspects of Davidson College but must also come in contact in a favorable manner with
members of the student body. We feel that this new program will enable alumni to become acquainted with female students
on a very personal, intimate basis.”

“This coed/alumni interaction will take place in the recently renovated Carnegie Guest House. The building was renovated with this program
in mind which has caused a furor in some areas of the college community concerning the use of college funds
for such an activity. President Spencer is quick to defend such fund allocation. “Of course we designed the guest house
renovation with this new fund-raising program in mind,” said Spencer.in mind. The fancy interior decor, we feel, provides a perfect
setting for the type of personal contact that the program participants hope to provide for alumni and potential contributors. The
renovation was a very expensive investment, but we feel that the resulting donations will make up for it. It’s rather
absurd to think we refurbished the guest house for average visitors such as parents or friends of students. If we'd
only had them in mind, we would have kept the guest house in Martin Manor or, better yet, sent all
guests down the road to the Tabor Inn. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, who supervised the remodeling, commented, "I certainly
hope that this program will be successful because of the large amounts of money we've put into it. In addition
to the costs of the renovation, there have been many incidental costs such as appropriate evening attire for the participants
and a flashing red light for the front window."

All of the candidates for the fund-raising program will be subjected to a careful series of interviews and tryouts before
a committee consisting of President Spencer, Zach Long, Tom Bernhardt, and several interested faculty members. Candidates will be judged on
the basis of personality, citizenship, and scholarship. Special emphasis will be placed on physical attributes, supine endurance, previous experience in
similar activities, and the extent of the candidate’s desire to lay it all on the line for the college. Bernhardt,
commenting on the selection process, said, "We're looking for young ladies who are willing to use their endowments to increase
the college endowment."

Visitors who make use of this new opportunity to gain first-hand knowledge of campus activities will be expected to provide
their student "friends" with adequate remuneration. Spencer commented, "These young ladies will be making tremendous sacrifices in terms of time,
virtue, and dating availability so they deserve some sort of compensation. Besides, Zach tells me that it is often the
custom for women who perform such services to get paid for it."

Some questions have arisen concerning whether the exclusively female nature of the fund-raising program violates Title IX. Assistant Dean of
Students Mary Lou Dietler commented, "It’s possible that this program is in violation of Title IX, but if it is,
we'll probably ignore it. I think most of us here are aware that girls have certain characteristics that enable them
to make a more favorable impression on potential donors, most of whom are men. If any women are interested in
making donations to Davidson, I am sure that many male students would be willing to provide the potential donor with
an in-depth, penetrating view of the ins and outs of campus life. I’m hopeful that this new concept in fund-raising
will make both the donors and program participants aware of the stimulating and fulfilling benefits of contributing to a liberal
arts college."

"We're aware, of course, of the possibility of unexpected ramifications stemming from participation in the program. In order to deal
with these, we've negotiated a discount deal with Planned Parenthood. If alumni response is greater than we expect so that
there are not enough qualified Davidson coeds, then we will immediately begin to recruit transfers from Queens."

This form of fund-raising project is not an original concept with Davidson. Spencer explained, "This method of promoting alumni/student relations
has been in use throughout the eastern United States for many years at institutions of high quality such as Williams
College."

Zach Long does not feel that such a program raises any ethical questions. "I will be very personally involved in
the selection of these girls and let me emphasize that only those girls with high moral standards and ability levels
will be considered. In the past few years, Davidson has gone out of its way for coeds and it’s time
that they put something back into the college. Sure, they'll be making a sacrifice, but we feel it’s better for
them to lose it to a wealthy alumnus than to someone like an SAE."

The committee has considered providing benefits for program participants in the form of preference in selecting housing and special academic
considerations. As Bernhardt put it, "We’re asking them to put out for the college, so it’s only fair that the
college put out for them."

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY FILMS
377-0841
