Pizza mushrooms into group delight

By DAVE KELLER
Features Editor

When man began agricultural pursuits eons ago, eating slowly became more of a pleasure than a necessity, and consequently, the communal meal developed into quite a social affair. This shared meal has gone through much evolution and, in this writer’s opinion, has reached its culmination in the pizza-among-campus-buddies affair prevalent today.

Pizza, with a wide range in quality, can be had in this area in many locations around Davidson. However, when considering quality, price, accessibility, and, most of all, social atmosphere, four spots come to mind.

First, right in our backyard, is Mooresville’s own King of Pizza. KOP, situated on the left of the railroad tracks just before downtown Mooresville, is a regular stop for most Davidsonians. Its main virtue is proximity, but it has other assets such as a good, Pizza Hut-type thin pizza (14” cheese—$3.00, 35 cents per extra ingredient) and free refills of iced tea; its only real drawback is the watery, tasteless house beer. Davidson checks are accepted, and there’s almost always a jovial crowd. They're open until 10 pm on weeknights, and 12 midnight on weekends. (For something different, try smoked oysters and mushrooms on your pie.)

The next establishment is in Charlotte (as are the rest), and is called The Liberty Restaurant; it is about a half a mile past the Charlotte Coliseum on East Independence. The atmosphere is akin to that of a fraternity house at lunch, and the pizza is great, especially if you like lots and lots of mozzarella cheese; in fact, their pizza recipe has won the Canadian Broadcasting Company’s pizza award for four years straight (or so says the menu). A 14” cheese pizza here is $2.95 and each extra costs 50 cents. The pizza is thick and the beer is good and icy, icy cold. Hours are until 12 midnight on weeknights and 1 am on weekends. Try this one.

La Strada, while being a fine place to get good, authentic Italian cuisine, is best known for its Sicilian pizza (or tomato pie). Large, very thick, and rectangular, these babies are $5.95 each plus 60 cents per extra ingredient. One is a full meal for three people, and the ingredients include such authentic delights as eggplant, meatballs, et al. Atmosphere here is fairly com-

STEP tutors act as brothers, sisters to community kids

By MARY ELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

Two years ago, a Davidson student began a tutorial program for children that now involves the volunteered time and skills of seventy-eight Davidson students. This program, the STEP tutor program, is a loose adaptation of the national program under the same name. The STEP tutor program is supported by the Davidson YMCA but also receives special gifts from other sources.

The program involves not only the time each week that each child spends with his or her tutor, but also at least one big outing or party per term involves the total group. Organizers of these outings are Mark Scandling and Meg Campbell, this year’s STEP tutor co-directors. The co-directors tell the tutors the name of each child’s school teacher and encourage them to meet the child’s family. Explained, “Families, on the whole, like the fact that their kids have a place to be—with someone they can trust. Although the Davidson College students participating in the program are called tutors, they are really ‘mostly a friend’ to the child.”

“I really like kids,” said Abby Fort when asked why she became a tutor. “I was a tutor at home, but this is really different. We play games. It’s only two hours a week and it’s a nice break.” Said another tutor, “I thought that it would be interesting and fun to be with a kid instead of just older people...I want to teach her to read, but she always hedges that. We spend ourtime walking, bike-riding—two or three times a week.” There are some tutors who are, in fact, tutoring. The elementary school teachers will often ask that a little time be given to certain areas—usually in reading. Billie Taylor works with his pupil on school lessons and then goes out to throw a football with him. Some of the children are not as easy to work with as others. One tutor has found that his pupil expects to always be treated to snacks and candy. “But, I’m trying not to let him take advantage of me,” he added. Another tutor, a junior, has had the same girl to tutor for three years. “I've watched her grow and change.” The tutor explained that at first the girl was hard to work with but that now they could be good friends with each other. An observer of this relationship simply said, “It’s beautiful.”

...and standard pizza is available if you are so inclined. There are two locations, one two blocks west of mammoth Eastland Mall, and hours are 4:30 to 10:30 Tuesday through Thursday, 4:30 to 12:30 Friday and Saturday, and 4:30 to 9:00 Sundays. As the sign says, “Mama mia, questa pizza è buona.”

The fourth choice is one also fairly popular among Wildcats: The Olive Tree, three-fourths of a mile north of East Independence near Lake Apartments (very near Eastland Mall also). Good pizza, but it costs a little more money than the above two spots and the small building is not quite as suited to gargantuan groups of students. A 12” pizza is $2.65 plus 50 cents for condiments, and hours are to 12:00 on weeknights and 1:00 on weekends. The Olive Tree is a member of the North American Pizza Association—if that means anything to you.

The Open Kitchen on Morehead also has good pizza, but the atmosphere is more suited for lovers than rowdies. Also, Charlotte has the usual assortment of Pizza Huts and Shakey’s Parlors for those of you who order vanilla ice cream at those 31-flavor places. Take your pick; they’re all good and they are all suited for groups of students like your own particular troupe.

REAL WORLD

October 26-November 14: “Shenandoah.” Presented by the Pineville Dinner Theater, Highway 51, Pineville, N.C. $10.50 (includes dinner). At 6:30 pm. Details: 542-3581.

October 29-31, November 5 and 6: “Peter Pan.” UNC-G, Taylor Building, Tate Street, Greensboro. $3.50. Matinee October 31 at 2:15 pm, all other performances at 8:15 pm. Details: (919) 397-5575.

November 3-5: “Once Upon a Mattress.” Presented by the P.C. Players, Presbyterian College, Belk Auditorium, Clinton, S.C. $3.00, $2.00. 8:15 pm. Details: (803) 833-2820, Ext. 297.

Music:

November 17: Chicago. Charlotte Coliseum. Details: 372-3600.

November 20: Parliament Funkadelics. Charlotte Coliseum. Details: 372-3600.

November 22: John Denver with the Starland Vocal Band. 8 pm Charlotte Coliseum. Tickets $10, $7.50, and $5.

Season Tickets are now on sale for the concerts of the Charlotte Oratorio Singers. The 155-voice chorus sings Haydn’s “The Seasons” January 14 at 8 pm in Ovens Auditorium. Tickets $6, $7, and $9. Details: write Oratorio Singers of Charlotte, 110 East 7th Street, Charlotte, N.C. 28202 or call 332-8151.

Art:

Through October 31: Wildlife Art in acrylics, ink and charcoal by Judy Mizell. Museum of York County, Mt. Gallant Road, Rock Hill, S.C. Details: (803) 366-4116.

Through October 31: American Master Prints by Jasper Johns, Joseph Albers, Helen Frankenthaler. Winthrop Gallery, Rutledge Building, Winthrop College, Rock Hill, S.C. Details: (803) 323-2236.

Through November 6: Acrylics, watercolors and oils by Phillip Moose. Annex Gallery, Coffey and Thompson, 132 North College Street, Charlotte. 10 am to 5:30 pm weekdays, 10 am to 1 pm Saturdays. Details: 334-4332 or 334-6121.

Continuing: Hand-colored etchings by Paul Geissler, limited edition prints by Gee, Mirglinger, Kuhn, Collins and others. Wainscott Studio: 2609 Central Avenue, Charlotte. Details: 373-1468.