Cartmill Reexamines Pay-As-You-Go Policy
By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

The Physical Education Department has not yet announced a definite policy concerning the use of clothing and equipment. The P.E.
Department’s originally announced policy of pay-as-you-go has met with strong student opposition. The equipment will remain locked and unavailable to
students until a final decision is made.

The new policy is being reexamined by Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill. A meeting was held Tuesday by Cartmill with members
of his staff to discuss problems with the new policy and possible solutions. A meeting of the same nature occurred
Wednesday between Cartmill and a committee from the Student Government Association. The Davidsonian was barred from attendance at that meeting.

Cartmill has said he intends to release full details of any changes in the new policy by early next week.
According to students at that meeting, some revision seems likely but precisely what they will be remains unclear.

Physical Education Director Raymond Stone commented last week that the new policy questions the integrity of the honor code. Will
Terry, Dean of Students, responded, “I don’t think it is a reflection on the honor system, rather on the organization
of the gym.”

Assistant Director of Athletics Tom Couch, asked about Terry’s comment, said, “Will is a minister. I don’t know what kind
of background he has to judge. I wouldn’t say he’s wrong, but it isn’t procedure, it is a lack of
personnel.”

There is general agreement within the department that better supervision of the building is needed. Members of the department refused
to directly comment on the quality and dependability of the work-study students formerly assigned to issue equipment and patrol the
gym, stressing rather the need for full-time supervision, particularly between 4 pm and midnight.

Cartmill stated that the budget does not allow for that sort of expansion this year, but it is possible next
year. Cartmill would like a supervisor for each area of the gym and he suggested a club system with ID
cards as a means of controlling users outside the immediate college community.

Couch feels that selling, rather than loaning equipment will definitely cut down on losses because the attitude will be, “If
it is mine, I'll take care of it.” However, Will Terry disagreed with the sales policy, commenting, “It seems to
me to be grossly unfair for what a student pays at Davidson that he is not provided a reasonable amount
of equipment for intramurals, physical education, and recreation.”

Cartmill responded to Terry’s statement by noting that it is not the format of most colleges to supply equipment in
the free play area and that intramural and physical education equipment will still be covered at no extra cost. Cartmill
emphasized that equipment will be sold at cost and that it is not his intention.

Vol. LXVI, No. TWO

Avinger Emphasizes More Interdisciplinary Studies
By LYMAN COLLINS
Asst. News Editor

Dean of the Honors Center Robert L. Avinger Jr. has initiated a major change in focus toward interdisciplinary studies.

“This year we’re trying to stimulate an academic interest in two major interdisciplinary projects,” explained Avinger. “They are an American
Studies program and a Public Policy program.

“In our programs we want to mesh and to intertwine various areas around a common theme. An example of this
would be American Culture in the twenties and thirties as a part of our American Studies program,” he continued.

Avinger just recently assumed his duties as dean, taking over in July from Dr. Earl R. MacCormac, now chairman of
the philosophy department. Avinger explained that the purpose of the Center is to perform certain academic functions and to facilitate
certain student programs.

“While emphasizing our interdisciplinary work we want to keep in mind that students do apply to the Center to do
advanced research and independent study and we do wish to accommodate them,” he said.

Avinger pointed out that the three-year study of the Rocky River, which had involved the entire Honors Center, was now
complete. Extensive projects along the lines of that project are still in the planning stages and depend on a number
of factors.factors including funding. “I think another project of that nature would be structured differently,” said Avinger. “There were some
problems with the Rocky River project because every student in the Center was required to participate.

“We got different feedbacks, of course. For some students, it was a tremendous learning experience, but for others, well, it
was almost a waste of time. That project illustrated the fact that we need to try to fit students to
their natural element,” he said.

“If you review the applications to the Center, the strongest emphasis is probably on the interdisciplinary work,” he added. Avinger
pointed to the Rediscovering American Movies series, which the Honors Center is sponsoring along with the English Department and the
Union Film Committee, as an example of the kind of outgrowth possible from the American Studies program.

“We're not trying to compete with the Union in planning activities for the student body,” he said. “We’re programming things
for students [see HONORS, page 7]

thedavidsonian__. Davidson College, September 24, 1976

THEFTS in the gym have been halted, at least temporarily while the PE Department ponders its next move. Overcrowding moves
Counselling from Chambers to Union basement

By AMANDA HALL Sports Editor

The basement of Grey Union now houses the offices of Dr. William Hight, Director of the Student Counseling Center, Davidson’s
two clinical psychologists, Dr. Amelia Dockery and Dr. Meredith Hall, and Ken Wood, the Director of Experimental Programs and Life/Work
Planning. Hight and Wood were located in Chambers Building, while the psychologists were in Phi Hall last year. In order
to give the counselors more room and to keep the three programs in one location, plans were made to move
Dockery and Hall into Chambers basement.

“They tried to put it in Chambers basement, but there was just not enough room,” said Union Director C. Shaw
Smith. “When it got to a point when all the professors would not have private offices, there was no question
that counseling would go here,” he said.

Smith originally planned to use the area to experiment with new programs for the Union like an expanded Arts and
Crafts program, or an informal lounge with a TV and a fireplace. “We are sorry we couldn’t experiment with the
area like we wanted, but we’re very happy to have counseling here,” Smith said. “A liberal arts college as much
as any institution I know needs to give the students any opportunity possible to let them find out what they
want—not necessarily just jobs. We are not a training school.”

“The other angle is, and this is part of the Union’s ideal, there is so much demand for academic excellence
that there is little chance for learning how to live. The Union is trying to give that chance, and the
counseling is also,” he said.

The Union Board included in the proposal for a new Union building five years ago the request that all counseling
facilities be located in one [see Counselling, page 7]
