“November 12, 1976

The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor

Carter has Republican’s support

To the Editor:

I think that most of the people on this campus know that I actively supported President Ford in this election. Now that Jimmy Carter has been elected, I am willing to give him my trust and faith. I am not as positive as Kevin White (staff writer) is, however, that the American people will not be disappointed.

In his article that appeared in The Davidsonian last week, the title alone, “Carter presidency promises reform,” increased my skepticism of Gov. Carter’s policies. Some people are more sure of what his programs are than others, but leaving that question aside temporarily, Mr. White said that the solutions to the problems that Gov. Carter offered appealed to the people. His solutions did not appeal to the people; rather, it was his promises to end the problems. We did not know what his solutions were during the campaign, and we still do not know. Hopefully, we will find out soon exactly what they are.

Other things that Mr. White wrote about were the same things that bothered me about Gov. Carter throughout the whole campaign. Mr. White said that Gov. Carter promises to reduce unemployment (presumably by adopting the Humphrey-Hawkins Bill), adopt a National Health Insurance program, and cut taxes. This directly contradicts the statement he makes later in the article, “He (Mr. Carter) wants to cut federal spending.” How Gov. Carter can add all the new social programs he proposes and also cut federal spending is beyond me.

I can share in Mr. White’s enthusiasm for our political system and the freedom that we, the American people, have in choosing the people that we want to represent us. Mr. White said in his article that “the American people have spoken, and they chose Jimmy Carter.” The American people did speak, Mr. White, but remember that only slightly more than a majority of the voters supported Gov. Carter, and it would be foolish for Gov. Carter to assume that he has a complete mandate from the people in support of his policies.

The most important thing that Gov. Carter has to do now that he has been elected is to convince the 49 percent of the voters that voted for President Ford to trust and believe in him and his policies. I am now ready to support Gov. Carter because, like Mr. White, I believe in our political system, and Gov. Carter is going to need the support of all the American people if he is going to do all that he promises he will.

The support that President Ford has given Gov. Carter during the transition phase (a very crucial phase in a change of administrations) is typical of the type of person Jerry Ford is. He is deeply committed to his country, and that is the way he conducted himself as President. Gov. Carter will enter the White House with the country healed and reunified after the horror of Watergate, and trust restored in our government. President-elect Carter and the American people can thank Gerald Ford for that!

Good luck, Jimmy Carter, you have my support!

Tim Goodell '79
Davidson College

Ford deserves commendation

To the Editor:

I am a Southerner, a Democrat, moderate politically, and therefore a fairly avid Carter supporter. I would like, however, to utilize this medium to express some personal thoughts and opinions concerning one of this country’s thirty-seven select leaders, President Gerald R. Ford.

This campaign has been marred by inexcusable attacking and counter-attacking on the part of all sides. That many would vote against a man rather than for his opponent became fact. For a few days following the election, I heard—and silently laughed at—some gloomy forebodings of national economic ruin. Such ignorant bitterness has no place at Davidson. This is the real purpose of my letter.

My vote was cast for Jimmy Carter, not against President Ford. Not wishing to rekindle images of that horrid scandal (I’ll choose not to mention it by name) which shook the foundations of our political system four years ago, one must remember that Mr. Ford accepted incredible pressure by becoming President of a nation which was frankly in God-awful-rotten shape. Faith in public officers was at an all-time low and inflation and unemployment rates were ever increasing. I cannot defend President Ford’s handling of the latter, but as for the former, he re-instilled trust in our leadership and pride throughout the nation.

Someone close to the Carter campaign said not long ago that he wished Carter were running against someone besides Ford because the President is such a good man. Nothing could be more truthful. I cannot know how history will record the Ford administration. Possibly he will be remembered simply as the “accidental President” who was never elected directly to a national office. For the rest of my life, however, Gerald Ford will be the man who miraculously restored, to use a cliché, faith in the presidency. Thank you, President Ford.

Sincerely,
[Name not provided]Kenneth A. Kirk '79 Davidson College

McKelway defends anti-Martin ad

To the Editor:

I was glad to read in last week’s Davidsonian William Barnett’s vigorous attack upon myself and other signatories of the Goodman for Congress ad. His enthusiasm is most welcomed, for it reflects an intensity of political interest all too rare on the campus. But if his effort and intentions are salutary, specific items in his article do require some response.

Mr. Barnett began by charging us with "poor taste" for publishing an advertisement entitled: "Davidson Professors for Arthur Goodman." He complained that "Readers throughout the area are given the impression that Davidson is anti-Martin." I suspect that Mr. Barnett really intended to raise the question of the propriety of our identifying ourselves as "Davidson Professors." It is generally accepted that instructors have a professional obligation to avoid public utterances which state, or reasonably imply, that they speak for their institutions. But, of course, what constitutes a "reasonable implication" is not always clear and must be adjudicated for each occasion. In this instance, I believe we were justified in using the name "Davidson," for the following reasons:

1) A professional obligation not to appear to speak for the institution cannot deprive the teacher as a citizen of the right to identify himself professionally in political debate. The fact that a person speaks from the perspective of a non-resident, or a medical doctor, or a mill worker is an important ingredient in any interpretation of what he has to say. Similarly, we felt that our action could best be understood if we acknowledged that we were citizens of Martin’s hometown, and colleagues at the school where he taught.

2) Given the fact that the town of Davidson has over thirteen hundred registered voters, and that the college has as many students and about four hundred employees, we could not view as reasonable the implication that forty-one "Davidson" signatures would, in themselves, represent either the town or the college. Moreover, we were careful to state that the views expressed were those of "We the undersigned..."

3) If, on the other hand, there are others like Mr. Barnett who assume an ineluctable relation of approval to exist between the college and its congressional alumnus, so that any testimony to the contrary must appear a change of official policy, all we can say is that we were not the originators of that impression. Rather, that impression is the result of support and encouragement given to Mr. Martin by the college administration over a period of years as he ran for and served in public office prior to his election to the Congress. It is also a result of the fact that Martin first ran for Congress as an "ex-Davidson College Professor," and continues to be referred to in that way in the news media. We do not deny Mr. Martin’s right to be identified according to (even past) professional association, we only claim that we have the same right.

Mr. Barnett believes that our action was destructive of those "ties that bind" together the college and its alumni. It needs to be pointed out that the bonds which hold the Davidson community together are not created simply by paying tuition, graduating, or earning a salary here, but are the result of commonly held ideals and values—as found, for instance, in the College’s "Statement of Purpose." While we believe Jim Martin has many excellencies, we do not believe his political judgments adequately reflect these values, so that, in this instance, cordiality must give way to criticism.

Concerning the various "absurdities" Mr. Barnett discovered in my remarks to a Davidsonian reporter, I can only say that while absenteeism is bad, Jim Martin’s voting record is, indeed, "worse," and while Mr. Barnett may disagree with my premise, I’m surprised that he judges my conclusions ridiculous. I am also surprised that my phrase "morally dull" should seem incoherent to my critic. His confusion here, I think, can be best relieved by reference to a dictionary where he will discover that my use of "dull" is not only allowed, but preferred over his own.

But these responses to Mr. Barnett’s criticisms must not obscure my appreciation of them. Faculty are not complimented by acquiescent silence on the part of students who disagree with their views. Learning can only take place in the context of open debate, and Mr. Barnett has performed a service in taking up questions which may and should concern others as well.

The article concluded with the hope that our action will not be repeated. Well, that depends upon Mr. Martin. But if the occasion does arise, I hope there will be other students who will take up the cudgels of political debate with the same energy, enthusiasm and (even) "carefree" spirit as Mr. Barnett.

Alexander J. McKelway
Professor of Religion
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.