Stuart Fund Becomes Scholarship
By JIM ENTWISTLE
Staff Writer

A new merit-based scholarship has been announced by Davidson College to begin next year. The program is financially independent of
the college and has been developed and supported by the family and friends of Edward Crosland Stuart, a 1954 Davidson
graduate who was lost in a military air crash in 1956.

In the first year of implementing the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program, two $3000 stipends and ten $500 stipends will
be awarded on the basis of Christian character, scholastic achievement, leadership, ambition, and physical vigor. An interested high school student
may not apply for a Stuart scholarship; rather, he must be nominated by his principal or headmaster and then successfully
pass through a series of interviews with local Davidson alumni.

Assistant to the President Peter Clark is optimistic that the Stuart Scholarships will publicize Davidson in a fashion similar to
the role of the Morehead Scholarships at Chapel Hill. “Financially, the Stuarts won't compare to the Moreheads, but we hope
that once talented students discover that they can receive substantial aid based on merit at Davidson, they will also discover
that they can get something here that isn’t available at Chapel Hill.”

In the first year of existence, the program will operate in North Carolina and Florida. Area alumni chairmen will distribute
scholarship information to local high school principals. The principals nominate students who are then interviewed on a district level by
alumni. The program directors then select students from each district who are put through additional interviews which result in six
semi-finalists from each district. The semi-finalists will then be brought on campus for a final series of interviews in the
spring to determine the recipients of the $3000 and $500 stipends. The Stuart Scholars will be announced on approximately April
1 of each year.

Edward Crosland Stuart demonstrated both leadership and academic ability while at Davidson, attributes fostered during his childhood in Bartow, Florida.
His college achievements are impressive: membership in Phi Beta Kappa, the ODK leadership society, the Phi Mu Alpha music society,
the YMCA cabinet, the Sigma Upsilon literary society, the Sigma Delta Phi Spanish society, and the student government Court of
Control. He left school his junior year to attend the World Christian Youth Conference in Trivandrum, India, as a representative
of the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church and to study at the American University in Beirut. Stuart returned his senior year
to be president of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and to graduate Cum Laude.

After graduation from Davidson, he went to Harvard on a Danforth Fellowship, but before commencing his history studies, Stuart was
called home to join the Navy. Following Stuart's accidental death, a fund was set up in his memory by his
family and Davidson classmates. It was not until last year, however, that steps were taken to transform the fund into
the new merit scholarship program.

The primary motivating force behind the transformation of the fund has been Seddon “Rusty” Goode, Stuart's college roommate. Now a
senior vice-president with the Interstate Securities Corporation in Charlotte and chairman of the fund’s board of directors, Goode eagerly and
fondly recalls his relationship with Stuart. “Ed was the sort of a guy who had lots of friends in all
different spectrums. He was as well-rounded an individual as I have ever known.”

The other members of the board of directors, all of whom were friends of Stuart, are Mrs. D. Grier Martin,
wife of the late college president, Chalmers Davidson, Charlotte attorney Larry J. Dagenhart, and Michael G. Myers, the director of
continuing education at Central Piedmont Community College.

After Stuart’s death, Goode stayed in touch with the Stuart family and watched as the originally small memorial fund grew.
He started to seriously consider expanding the fund last year and, after consultation with the Morehead scholarship program at Chapel
Hill, decided to push a program of merit scholarships for Davidson College. Goode comments, “After studying the Morehead program, I
decided to try something along those same lines because I liked the merit aspect of it.”

[see SCHOLARSHIP, page 3]

Vol. LXVI, No. TEN
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
December 10, 1976them in any other year of this decade. The editorship of The Davidsonian is being contested, giving voters
a choice to make between Juniors David Keller and Catherine Landis. Both Landis and Keller now serve the paper as
Executive Editors, both have had experience with news and features layout, and both have worked with The Davidsonian for the
entirety of the past year. Either Keller or Landis would be quick, however, to differentiate between the candidates. Landis looks
at the editorship as an “exciting challenge.” “The paper is going to have a new face,” she said. Keller does
not plan any changes in format for The Davidsonian but believes strongly in the paper’s responsibility to be both informative
and entertaining for the students. “I want to publish a professional-quality paper without typographical and grammatical errors,” Keller said. “I
also want a diverse paper, each issue having a lot of variety.”

Landis does not believe that The Davidsonian has a staff as such anymore. She describes the newspaper as being somewhat
disjointed and separated into groups. “I want to give the paper a real staff again,” she said. “I’m going to
emphasize quality writing and editing in meetings in which staff members can learn journalism as well as simply getting assignments.”
Landis comments, “I’m going to make it an honor to write for The Davidsonian again. We just won’t accept anything
but the best.” Keller hopes to increase his staff of writers and proofreaders “to put out a good quality newspaper.
I also hope to have workshops to train present and prospective staff members on good newswriting, layout, and so on,”
he said. “I also want to be responsive to student feedback and to student and faculty opinions,” Keller added. “Hopefully
people will see The Dav- [see EDITORSHIP, page 12]

DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR MATTHEW Covington smiles at the prospect of a contested election for his successor.

Brown, Young foresee involvement for student body outside of Senate

By LYMAN COLLINS
Assistant News Editor

This Tuesday students will elect either Roger Brown or Thom Young as the next President of the SGA. A two-way
race between Guy DiCenzo and Bruce Brown is shaping up for SGA Vice-President. Both Brown and Young indicated that one
of their main objectives in working with the SGA would be to involve students outside the Senate. Brown indicated that
he would involve students in research and study projects to augment the Senators’ work. Young sees ideas originating with students
being directed and studied by students. “I'd like to see student ideas bubble up from the bottom,” he added.

Brown emphasized that most of his programs would be continuations of things he’s been working on for the past two
years in the Senate. “I mulled things over in my mind about ways I could accomplish things, and I finally
reached the conclusion that the best way was to be SGA President,” he said. Professor evaluation and student-faculty relations are
two main areas in which Brown would like to concentrate. Brown eventually hopes to set up a faculty course evaluation
handbook. He would like for the book to have faculty input as well as student ideas, and the book would
be distributed to administration as well as to the faculty and to students. “This would obviously help students in choosing
their courses,” said Brown, “but it could also help professors evaluate themselves. It could also be a means for administration
to evaluate the faculty.”

Brown also seeks to improve faculty-student relations. To do this he would like to involve professors in things such as
freshman orientation and IMAC sports. “I think we could do many small things to get professors in a position to
talk to students,” he continued. Brown said that there were two extreme stances in dealing with the administration that he
wished to avoid: the SGA implacably opposed to the administration, or an acquiescent SGA readily bending to administration pressure. “I
want to sit down and explain to Dr. Spencer that I don’t want to be his advisory. I want to
work with him together, but I want to make it clear to him that if the Senate and the students
are in favor of programs that the [see DiCENZO, page 3]
