December 17, 1976

Vin, i, tie ai a a — the davidsonian — = Se aS wae

Davisonian donates gifts of distinction

By WICKED, MENCH and FRIENDS
Staff Writers

For our beloved President Spencer—A scale model of Williams College for his office.
Coach Pritchett—A crown and a kingdom.
Nancy Matheny—The presidency of the Coach Pritchett fan club.
Bo Baskin—A yellow rose.
Jeff Brown—Directions to the IMAC office.
C. Shaw Smith—A “new golly” for his old “oh golly.”
Dr. Chalmers Davidson—Marvin Lively.
Marvin Lively—Chalmers.
Sam Maloney—A broken public address system.
Mary Lou—A mirror so she can put her ponytail in the back.
Will Terry—The Golden Age of C.A. and Y.B., and a new speech for orientation.
Bo Brickels—A job.
Thom Cartmill—A job.
Carol Connors—Her homecoming Queen Crown.
Zach Long—Carol Connors as Homecoming Queen and a week’s vacation at summer camp.
Jay Kopel—A Booty.
Thom Young—A Roger Brown doll.
SAE’s—A lifetime supply of khakis and topsiders.
Chuck Kennon—Reality.
PDT’s—A rolling machine and monogrammed papers.
K.D.—A coach and four.
ATO—A group membership to the Praise The Lord Club.
Richard Boyce—A disco in his honor.
Steve Peeples—A hair styling.
Leslie Jacobs—A week vacation at the NASA Center.
“Coach Chuck” Cornwell—Onaga Welles lessons.
Cathy Landis—A fifth of Ancient Age every Wednesday.
Academic Vice-President—Happy Hanukah, Wicked!
Last, but least, for Davidson College—An

By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

Reviewing a movie that is placed in a period corresponding in time to my own toilet training is difficult but not just because I was too young to comprehend the dramas that were being played out daily on the still-youthful TV networks. McCarthyism, which is the subject of The Front, was the first news event to receive wide TV coverage, but the details have faded from the collective mind as quickly as the remembrance of “detention centers” for those of Japanese descent in the U.S. during World War II or the secret bombing of Cambodia in our more recent debacle. Faded is perhaps too soft; suppressed is a more apt description for the public’s reaction to these events that masqueraded under the banner of patriotism.

Woody Allen is the little guy turned hero in The Front, but it is not a “Woody Allen Movie.” For the first time in Allen’s career, he plays a fairly serious role in a movie that he neither wrote nor directed. Typically enough, Allen plays a schnook who clerks in a New York bar so that he can bankroll his losing bookie operation. At first, the movie seems to be a domesticated version of

Will you study over break

By ANN GARNER
Staff Writer

Class of ’80

“Did you say study? Yes, I plan to, but not a lot, because I’ve got a term paper due and I don’t believe in Santa Claus and I don’t get books for Christmas.”

When asked how she would go about it, she responded: “With the elves, no—I don’t think I'll get much done, just get back on a regular level. I need a break at MacDonald’s because they don’t have one at Davidson.”

“Yeah. Because if I don’t, I'll forget it all. I’ll probably just go over stuff.”

Will you be glad to get back home?

“No, I’d much rather stay here and eat Slater all day and all night.”

“I have to or I’m sunk.”

“Yes, the same way I study here. I have to catch up and if I can find enough self-discipline I’d like to get ahead. But, I—I don’t think I'll have enough self-discipline.”

“I plan to go home and see the movies of all the books I have to read.”

“Yes, I plan to shut myself up in my room away from all the Christmas cheer and fill my noggin full of ‘Humes.’ I know I will get something done. I'll just have to deprive myself of the bodily pleasures I could receive over the holidays and study.”

“Study what? I plan to, but I doubt that I’ll ever get around to it.”

How do you plan to study?

“Between my Christmas party and New Year’s party, I’m going to sleep with my books and hope that osmosis will occur.”

“I have to because I didn’t do it this week, because I didn’t want to. When I get home, I will have to lock myself in the library and tell my friends that I’m off visiting relatives or they will throw rocks at me. My words of wisdom are limited at this point. Any place that makes you lock yourself up with Plutarch’s Lives deserves to be hung, drawn, and quartered, without benefit of clergy.”

Class of ’79

“Am I what?! Yes. Actually, I have to catch up.”

Did you plan to study over last year’sChristmas break? “Hell no!” Why this year? “Because I have to.” 

“Oh yes, tons. I study more over Christmas than I do here. No kidding! Especially since these three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas when nobody does anything.” 

How? “Just make sure I study three hours a day. I think it’s a lot easier because there’s no deadline and you can go at your own pace. I’m sure I can. I can do it easier at home than here.” 

“Yes, I will drudge away under a very dim 15-watt Westinghouse lightbulb.” 

“I really am going to study over Christmas.” 

“I plan to read about one to two hours every night because there’s nothing else to do.” 

“You see how Davidson has affected him. He thinks he has to study over Christmas.” 

“I’ll have my sister make out questions!” 

“You weirdo!” 

Class of ’78: “Get out of here.” 

“I've been here for two years and I always plan to study over Christmas and I have yet to do so. This year, I plan to read three books and send two articles to the Wall Street Journal.” 

Class of ’77: “I plan to turn on the dishwasher, kick everyone out, and get these three weeks done in the kitchen.” 

In past years? “I'd always planned to, but have gotten only a minimal amount done.” 

“What do you mean how? I'm going to study like I do here; from 2 o'clock to dinner, and from dinner to whenever. My goal is always to get at least one week ahead so I don’t have to do that much when I get back and I get a lot done.” 

“I probably will, this is if I don’t have anything else better to do. Unlike a bottle of wine, holidays get worse with age. ‘Cause your parents stop treating you like queens and kings, they make you work, wash your own laundry, your old friends get tired of you. I'll take my books if I’ve got nothing else to do— Bingo!”

Allen acts serious, a standard Allen movie, complete with Allen’s usual self-deprecating stance, but then an old friend shows up to ask him to put his name on a TV script that he cannot sell. Not because it isn’t good, but because he’s been blacklisted, branded as a communist; or suspected of being a communist—or at least a sympathizer. Perhaps he had signed the wrong petition, or knew the wrong people, or just thought the wrong thoughts. Like countless others in the entertainment field, he is a victim of his government, ala Joe McCarthy and supporters. 

Allen takes on the job as a cover, but hardly for altruistic reasons. Soon he is representing several writers and plotting on bigger plans and the schnook becomes a high-powered capitalistic maneuverer as fame, fortune, and love come his way. Director Martin Ritt nicely handles the conversion from clerk to mogul and distrust replaces comic sympathy in perceiving Allen’s role. Allen sees friends being destroyed by the ominous men in grey flannel who relentlessly search out the wrong thinkers, banning them from work, but his reaction is unemotional and his solution is to throw a little money into their defense—until an actor, played by the elastic-faced Zero Mostel, commits suicide and the woman he loves leaves him. 

Standard plotting, but it effectively jolts the viewer back into a consciousness of just how pernicious McCarthyism was. Because the movie starts as an Allen comedy and then changes focus, it creeps up unsuspectingly, turning reactions from laughter to indignation. When Allen finally makes his stand against the members of the House Un-American Activities Sub-Committee, the audience is once again with Allen, but he is no longer the schnook or capitalist. Allen, the man of principle, counters their oxymoronic questioning deftly, as the audience cheers him on. Finally, he rises slowly to leave, rather than compromise, and when he tells the members of the committee to fuck themselves, the audience erupts. Hokey, yes, but effective and very healthy too. 

The only scene where the movie really breaks down is the closing scene where Allen, the writers he represents, and his girlfriend are solidly reunited as Allen is taken away in handcuffs to do time for contempt. It is presented in the worst tradition of Hollywood schmaltz romantic—prison is about as romantic as working your way through college, principle or not. 

The Front is a good movie without pretense; it is well-acted and directed, but weak because of its traditional plotting. It combines humor with a special kind of horror and it may jog a few minds and reawaken us to what has happened in the past to individuals in the name of love of country.