the davidsonian: May 7, 1976

Sea of towns surrounds Davidson

By CHUCK STILL
Staff Writer

Davidson exists amidst a sea of tiny towns, all with an identity just as unique as Davidson’s. To save you
the time and effort of finding them all yourself, here is a quick tour guide to some of North Carolina’s
finest located just minutes from Davidson.

Mooresville—Everyone knows about the Port City, King of Sirloin, Little Kitchen, Grimm’s, and Jack’s News for comic books. If you
want to fight, cruise Hardee’s on a Saturday night.

Mt. Mourne—Gas, phone, this exit.

Concord—Shoney’s, Burger King, the other King of Pizza, the Creamery, and four blocks of downtown if you can find them.
And of course, for that bad case of munchies, the Waffle House, with beautiful waitresses and fast easy food which
slides down, is open twenty-four hours a day.

Kannapolis—A non-franchised entity, home of Cannon Mills, creator of black lung disease. Sgt. Pepper’s Lounge and Waffle King, one theater
which is still showing Jaws. The natives are friendly but it is best to raise the back end of one’s
car before entering town. Cruise on over to Main Street and circle around with the “boys”, round and round, while
watching the local “honies” promenade on the lane divider in the middle of the street. If one is especially proud
of his vehicle, position yourself in the parking lots at the end.

Bazbo’s globe whirls; Trussed Eees conquer

By JACK GOLDEN
Staff Writer

Inside the globe, Bazbo floated in a state of semi-consciousness. The familiar sights of the campus were visible if Flash
had the desire or strength to see them; but as it was, it was all he could do to comprehend
what had befallen him. The globe continued to race through the air, leaving the academy far behind. Faster and faster,
higher and higher the sphere soared until it reached a cloud which looked remarkably like a flying saucer; it entered.

Aboard the cloud ship, a mysterious figure peered into the sphere. Suddenly it turned to its menacing colleagues and hissed,
“At last my brothers, we have our specimen. We, the Trusse Eees, shall rule the world!”

[To be continued]

1. Who invented the safety pin?
2. What was the cause of Sir Francis Bacon’s death?
3. What change in White House plumbing took place after the inauguration of Taft as President?
4. _______ was the first song recorded.
5. Describe the world’s best-selling postcard.
6. What was Ross Bagdasarian’s claim to fame?
7. _______ was the title of the first Hardy Boys book.
8. Who played opposite a chimp in Bedtime for Bonzo and the “Zipper”?
9. The first man to be seen on television other than a technician was _______.
10. Who was the first Schwenkenfelder to immigrate to the U.S.? (Bicentennial Bonus)

[TEXT] Z3MYIg eB1004 OT JOAOOH] 7.191977 @o1aMIMOD Jo A1B}aI90g 94T ‘6 uaSeex peuoy “g ainsvat[— 4aMNOT ayy, “2 *squnuidiy, 0y}
se FPSMATY PepsOoes aT ‘a[PIAGG plawq “9g « Payddry 18a0eu 34,7 ‘mouy 3,u0p I,, (94S .,28andry ayy nos oq,, :a7
‘UOI}BSIZAUOD UT UsWIOM puB UB, °C “‘UOSstPA “VL Aq Suns *,,qure’y 2377] & pexy Arey, “yING SITY 8}zepour0z08 0} pelfezsul
sem qnjzyIEq wsIE] Y “¢ *AOUS YFLM UOHIYO B Zuyynjs &q uo 448no1qg ‘eyuoumneug = °Z yan *O ABM “Tof
Main Street and smile at the paraders as they admire you and your auto. P.S. For the more romantic, Kannapolis
is also your place. Sit beside the beautiful man-made pond in front of Cannon Mills and admire the gorgeous 20-foot
cannon, a sight you don’t want to miss.

Landis — Two rows of stores, highlighted by the laundromat, and railroad tracks. Stop and get a feel of true
little town boredom.

China Grove — North Carolina? See Texas, page 1095.

Albemarle — A comer, plans to be the Birmingham of small towns, working on some first-class pollution. Watch industrialization in
progress and be sure to smile at Mount Pleasant on your way over.

Boger City — On the way to:

Lincolnton — Home of the famous loop, enter town, circle courthouse, leave town. This is no backward county seat. It,
too, has a Hardee’s on Main Street, no less. Enjoy the drive over past the lovely concrete dams of Duke
Power.

Catawba — Witness the death of a small town. See a ghost town. Drive to Hickory 20 minutes away and
find out why everyone left.

Yadkin College — Our special feature of the day: This place no longer exists but can be found on most
maps. A historical marker tells the intrepid explorer that the college died in 1924, a few years after it went
coed.

Which brings us back to Davidson and the end of our North Carolina tour. Be here next time for a
tour of the ghettos of Mt. Mourne, an odyssey among the less fortunate.

Robert Bly, poet, editor, and translator will visit Davidson on Tuesday, May 11. Winner of the National Book Award in
1967, Bly has also engaged himself in the political arena. Bly will hold an informal session at 3:30 Tuesday in
the Morrison Room and will give his reading at 8:00 pm in the 900 Room. Bly will present the Vereen
Bell Award.

Friday, May 7, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
2 pm 24-Hour Relay Richardson Field

Saturday, May 8, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
All Day Town Day Village Green
24-Hour Relay Richardson Field
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds" Love Auditorium

Sunday, May 9, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
4 pm Stage Band Concert Belk Plaza
6 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
8 pm Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Large Conf. Room

Monday, May 10, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
4 pm Senior Banquet Banquet Hall

Tuesday, May 11, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
All Day Robert Bly, Poet 900 Room
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
2 pm Seminar on Russian History 900 Room
2 pm Small Group Leader’s Meeting Large Conf. Room
7 pm Worship Service DCPC
8 pm Robert Bly, Poet 900 Room

Wednesday, May 12, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
10 am Interorganizational Forum Mtg. Large Conf. Room
4 pm Film: “Variations on an Italian Theme” Hodson Hall
7 pm NC PIRG Large Conference Room
7:30 pm Drama Dept. Fourth Annual Follies Hodson Hall

Thursday, May 13, 1976
All Day The Student Show Stowe Galleries
All Day Summer Job Interviews with Alcoa Morrison Room
10 am Coffee and Cokes Banquet Hall
7:30 pm YM/YWCA Discussion Group Small Conf. Room
