the davidsonian
October 15, 1976

Horton
By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

A new banquet room to house official college dinners and special campus social functions is presently being prepared in the Grey Student Union. It is located between the entrance to the snack bar and the union desk. 

Mrs. Ava Spencer, who was appointed by her husband, college president Samuel R. Spencer Jr., to supervise the project, said that, when completed, the new dining room will definitely be “the most elegant on campus.” Although commonly referred to as the Woodrow Wilson Room, Spencer said that no final action had been taken on a name.

Physical Plant Director Baskin outlines SGA Senate goals, four main areas merit consideration
By LYMAN COLLINS
Assistant News Editor

According to SGA President Bo Baskin, the four main goals for the SGA Senate for the rest of this year will be in the areas of athletics, overcrowding, faculty/student relationships, and program development. “These are four broad areas that we have been working in for a long time now,” said Baskin, “and we also have several ad-hoc projects now in the works.”

In the area of athletics, Baskin said that “the SGA wanted to work with the Athletics Department in their areas of P.E., club sports, intramurals, and intercollegiate athletics. We want to help the department define its goals for all these areas,” he said. “The goals for intercollegiate sports have been pretty well defined, but that is not quite the case with club sports, for example.”

Baskin indicated that in the area of overcrowding the SGA would be looking at all aspects of the problem, not just in one area such as housing. “We want to look at overcrowding from all sides, from housing to classrooms, parking to eating houses (both Patterson Court and ARA). The basic question here is given current enrollment, do we have adequate facilities, or given current facilities, what should be our enrollment?”

Baskin said that he was particularly interested in the area of faculty/student relationships. “I think we have an excellent faculty, it is what makes Davidson great,” he said. But Baskin said he thought that some of the intimacy of faculty/student relationships had disappeared. “That’s one of the things you always hear about Davidson—the way the students visit often in the faculty homes and the great relationship that exists. I’m afraid that we are too often only getting contact in the classrooms.”

“I also think that it is a two-way street; students don’t invite faculty to their eating clubs or parties.” He indicated that a possible way of both faculty and students discovering more mutual interests was for booklets on both faculty and student nonacademic interests to be developed similar to the one on faculty academic interests now used for extended studies. “Another problem in this area is student evaluation of faculty. The SIR forms have been discontinued and the SGA just can’t handle it; there is an incredible amount of paperwork,” he added.

In the area of program development, Baskin pointed to the vast potential in audiovisual aids that are for the most part untapped here. Baskin also pointed to the Senate ad-hoc activity. “We have one group working on the life at Davidson. They meet each week and discuss a different topic, and in January they are turning a report,” he said. “We wanted this group to challenge even the most hallowed institutions here.”

Coeducation is another area that has fallen under SGA scrutiny. “We have a committee studying it—asking several questions: what has been the effect? Are we fulfilling our obligations to both men and women? Also the issue of fairness. Another question is should...

ITS NOT TOO LATE
FRESHMEN AND SOPHOMORES
- NO OBLIGATION
- CREDIT FOR PHYSICAL EDUCATION
- INDIVIDUAL SPORTS
- SCHOLARSHIPS
- LEARN LEADERSHIP, SKIING,COMMUNICATIONS, MARKSMANSHIP, SCUBA / - COURSE CREDIT JUNIOR AND SENIOR YEARS - CASH PAYMENTS OF $100 PER MONTH FOR ALL STUDENTS JR AND SR YEARS. TRY ROTC THIS TERM. CONTACT THE ROTC DEPARTMENT AT 336 or 337.

We go the next step and adopt a merit-based admissions policy and abolish the sex quota. This committee is going to correspond with other colleges who have done away with the quotas and discover what the results have been in areas such as alumni giving,” added Baskin.

Improved student/Senate communications have now been improved on according to Baskin. Starting this week, every Senator is responsible for visiting about forty students and seeing if they have any gripes, suggestions, or ideas. Then the individual Senators are to report back to the Senate where it is sent to the proper committee for action. Then the Senators are to report back to their “constituents” and inform them what action had been taken. Then the Senators are given a new group of names and the process begins again.

“The purpose of this system is to hear complaints, establish a line of communications between the students and the Senate, and to educate them about what the Senate is doing,” said Baskin. “I hope we can dispel some of the fears about what the SGA is doing.”

Rusk [Continued from page 1]

The possibility of running it. While there would be obvious advantages of Scott operating it, such as his experience in both food and staff management, the students presently involved in the project are generally in favor of running it themselves. Lynn Langley, co-chairman

Antiques provide elegance for Wilson Room. Grover Meetze designed the room as a part of his renovation of the Grey library into a student union. The area of the Wilson Room was originally taken up by library offices. Music Professor Lucille Snider is in charge of the actual decorating of the room. However, because she is still in the middle of her plans, she declined to comment upon how the room will appear when completed.

Antique furniture given by the estate of Mrs. Florence Clift Horton in memory of her son, Davidson alumnus Gordon Horton ’54, will provide the focal point of the room’s decoration. According to Mrs. Spencer, all of these pieces are in the Eighteenth Century English style. In addition to furniture, the silver, crystal, and china to be used are also from the Horton Estate. Other Horton valuables have already been used in the refurbishing of the Carnegie Guest House. There is an exhibit of Horton jade and silver in the E.H. Little Library.

Mrs. Spencer described work on the Wilson Room as being “in progress,” although she doesn’t know exactly when “we will get everything into the room.” Past college dinners have been held in the Ney Room, located in Rusk House. The fate of the Ney Room upon completion of the Wilson Room is uncertain. There is a strong chance, according to Dean of Students Will H. Terry, that Rusk House will be used to establish a new eating club or fraternity in order to eliminate overcrowding on Patterson Court. If this does not materialize, President Spencer said that the Ney Room will continue as an alternative banquet house.

Of the committee heading up the project to open Rusk House, appealed for help, “We need freshman support. If freshmen are interested in where they’re going to eat next year, we need to know now so we can work on the possibilities of opening Rusk House for the 1977-78 school year.”

The following Law Schools will have representatives on campus for interviews:
Oct. 15 - University of Georgia Law School
Oct. 26 - Boston University School of Law
Oct. 27 - University of N.C. School of Law
Nov. 4 - University of Virginia School of Law
Nov. 5 - Duke University School of Law
Nov. 12 - Vanderbilt University School of Law
Dec. 2 - Georgetown University Law Center

Please cut this out and keep as a reference.