4 The Davidsonian January 16, 1976

SGA Senate Reverses Decisions, Fouls Credibility

The phrase SGA President, Bo Baskin uses is "enforcing the directives of the SGA By-laws." Baskin was endorsing his interpretation of these directives when he allowed Howard Payne and Dean Eklund to run for the office of class senator, while Tony Palmer, Tony Snow, and Steve Sparger could not. These five were candidates in an all-candidates meeting which was held January 9. Prior to Christmas break, it was made clear that failure to attend the meeting would result in disqualification.

Baskin was enforcing his interpretation of the SGA By-laws Tuesday night when, after the election was held, he recommended to George Beatty that the results of the recent election be thrown out and a new one be scheduled. "This new election will include all the candidates, regardless of their attendance at an all-candidates meeting." Beatty, as SGA Election Council Chairman, is authorized to make provisions for a new election. He accepted Baskin's suggestion.

In the now disqualified elections for senator from the Class of 1977, Joe Lagan received 8 votes, Lynn Keener received 8, Sabra Faires 61, Howard Payne 44, Bob Mitchell 21, and Tony Snow 57 invalid write-in votes. When Palmer and Snow are allowed on the ballot next week, these political fortunes or misfortunes will change. Steve Sparger’s introduction into the Class of 1978 race will affect David Tinkler, who received 113 votes, Steve Smith who got 82, D.C. Augustine with 70, and Jim Ervin with 62.

Perhaps the best thing would be if all the original winners won again. Then the situation would be like two children in a playground dispute resolved by a "do-over." The second time yields the same result, and both children figure everything is all right. Because of guilt feelings, the threatened resignation of the Senate Parliamentarian, or the boycott of the senate meeting Tuesday, the SGA has indeed called for a "do-over." The playground has simply shifted to the Union conference room.

By deciding originally to exclude Palmer, Snow, and Sparger from the election, holding the election, and attempting to convene a senate meeting to swear in the winners of the election, the SGA and its officers who strive to enforce SGA directives made a solid stand. The decision was based on the fact that Payne and Eklund were only minutes late to the all-candidates meeting, while Palmer, Snow, and Sparger forgot to come at all until an hour later. Whether Baskin made the best choice is debatable, but as an official of the SGA, he made the choice in good faith for the students who elected him.

By reversing the original decision and calling for a new election, the SGA officials appear to be somewhat less than equal to their tasks as student representatives. The authority they have is compromised now and for this instance. If Payne and Eklund belong on the first ballot and Palmer, Snow, and Sparger do not, then it cannot also be true that Palmer, Snow, and Sparger are eligible for the same election held a week later. By reversing decisions and changing minds, the SGA officials have effectively removed themselves from the authority and responsibility of deciding who belongs in the class senator elections. The responsibility is now turned to the voter.

If Payne and Eklund belong in the election because they did meet the only election official present at the all-candidates meeting while that official was still in the meeting room, then they deserve to be considered as candidates in good faith. If Payne and Eklund are equally guilty with Palmer, Snow, and Sparger for missing the meeting, then the appearance of any of the five on the ballot should be counted as immaterial and votes for these people should not be cast.At the all-candidates meeting, although it is not a violation of the By-laws pertaining to the meeting, it may suggest to some that all the candidates who originally filed should be eligible. Voters will still vote for those people they feel are most qualified, but another question, as silly as the whole situation itself, must be asked. That is: who belongs on the ballot?

Empty union requires new student attitudes

Edin) Pape Ein Wander through the new union Selure the beginning of this school year I was struck by the discovery of a clean, bright, comfortable place. One could not help but have a feeling of emptiness. But, at that time, such feelings were tempered by the realization that over 1000 students were on the way. Imagined gatherings filled the empty spaces. Leaving the Snack Bar after supper last Friday night, I passed the TV room and noticed the lights off. Inanely curious, I turned them on. The room was empty. Yet, this was a different breed of emptiness. The presence of the previously absent student body transformed its vacancy from the emptiness of potential to the emptiness of waste.

Activity at the College union centers on two areas: the Snack Bar and the 900 Room. While such centralization appears harmless, it points out not only space wastage but the psychology of the student body toward the facility. Considered as a whole, Davidson students enter the Union only for quite specific purposes, such as eating or a show. As such, the Union functions as only a combination cafeteria-auditorium. No one, or certainly very few, goes to the Union just to be going, just to sit around, just to gather, just to take a break.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.

The Union exists neither as a hub nor a gathering spot. It remains empty between performances. This phenomenon is certainly understandable. The library remains the social center on the Davidson campus. While this behavior is certainly a reflection on the basic priorities of the Davidson student, it can also be explained in a slightly more desirable fashion. Those of us here before the new Union, faced with the gloomy, “crampedness” of the old, had almost no other choice. Of course, there were exceptions. Certain freshman halls created a real atmosphere of open visitation. A few hardy extroverts were able to enter Watts in a truly casual fashion. But, for the large majority, the library remained the only place where one was guaranteed a gathering of students. This building was the only place one could just “bump into” someone, where visiting could be a random rather than a planned undertaking. The openness and visibility of the new library proved even more conducive to this behavior than the old.

What is needed is a change in the psychology of the student in relation to the Union’s function. The Union does not need to create more extravagant performances. Lack of opportunity is not the real problem behind Davidson's bland social life. Despite professed maturity, Davidson students of both sexes face dating and social life in general in a formal, almost high-schoolish manner. The Union, as a focus for casual “gathering,” offers the key to building some type of community feeling past the freshman hall. When students, coming back to a break in their routines, begin to say, “Let’s drop by the Union and see what’s going on,” we will be on the way toward truly utilizing one of the most impressive facilities on campus. Until the chatting crowds move from the library, until “seeing who’s in” becomes a viable excuse for entering the building, the Union will remain a place of wastefully empty space.