February 6, 1976

The Davidsonian

Four wives’ lives

By AMANDA HALL
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidsonian chose four ladies at random to highlight faculty wives, a part of Davidson students often overlook. They enrich the community for both the students and the residents by contributing their talents and service. The ladies become members of the Distaff Club, a service and social club which is responsible for the social functions of the college, when they come to Davidson. “Without it you wouldn’t have the nicer things,” said Laura Grosch.

Service is not obligatory; newcomers automatically serve on some committee, but if time and other obligations interfere, a member may leave the club. “I don’t think it’s ever a burden—I’ve never felt it to be a burden,” said Adelaide “Babs” McKelway.

Faculty wives work with all aspects of community life, from teaching music to writing to founding the Day Care Center. Several ladies teach in public schools or at Davidson. “What you find (in Davidson) is that the wives are very well educated and talented; they’re just a powerhouse,” said Grosch.

Betty Cumming, wife of W. P. Cumming, Professor Emeritus, has been in Davidson since 1931, making her one of the oldest residents. She received her B.A. in English from Smith College and her Masters from Oxford. The faculty wasn’t open to women when Mrs. Cumming came to Davidson, so she taught English at Queens College, specializing in American Literature. In 1964 she became one of the first lady teachers at Davidson, teaching American Literature in the summer session.

The Cummings received Fulbright appointments to teach at Annamalai University in India, where they were often the only westerners in the community. Mrs. Cumming’s job was to help the freshmen speak and understand spoken English. The school was taught completely in English because the administration refused to use Hindi, which the Indian government was trying to make the national language. “This was a very difficult assignment because I hadn’t had any training in that aspect of English teaching,” said Mrs. Cumming. She taught at a Japanese Christian college for three months after leaving India.

Ever since she has come to Davidson, Mrs. Cumming has been active in community service, and was given the Sullivan Award for community service by the college a few years ago. The Davidson Day Care Center is Mrs. Cumming’s main interest. She worked with the original planning of the center and has served on the board since 1970. “I’ve always been very interested in race relations in town. Also, I’ve been concerned with the need for care for children of working mothers. One reason it means so much to me is that it is the best interracial project here,” she explained. Mrs. Cumming continued, “The staff, the board, and the children are all interracial, and it’s a very natural relationship.”

Mrs. Cumming has always been involved with church work and has taught Sunday school and worked on the service committee for the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The church elected her an elder this year. Much of her time is taken working as her husband’s first research assistant, writing books on early American maps and history. “This has been practically a full-time job because I do much research and some writing. I almost never get on the title pages because I’m not qualified, but I do get a really nice acknowledgment in each preface,” she said. The Cummings’ latest book is The Fate of a Nation, a bicentennial book written with Hugh Rankin. By the end of February, they expect to have an exhibit on the making of the book in the E.H. Little Library.

Laura Grosch, wife of Herb Jackson, considered herself an artist when she was six, and began supporting herself with portraits in college. Her art is her business and major source of income now, and she has lithographs and paintings in galleries across the eastern U.S. She received the Purchase Award, the award when...The juror notes a piece special to him and the museum, purchasing it for their permanent collection from several shows, including the 10th Annual Piedmont Graphics Exhibition at the Mint Museum of Art in Charlotte and the Western Annual Juried Exhibition of Works of Art on Paper at Western Illinois University. Grosch received her B.A. in art history from Wellesley College and her B.F.A. in painting from the University of Pennsylvania. Grosch paints and draws in Davidson during the winter but works slowly, finishing only five or six paintings a year. The drawings are used as the basis for her prints done in Boston in the summer. “Prints have given me mobility because I can stay here and ship my work all over the nation or the world,” she said. She works with woven imagery in ground. Grosch concentrates on making a visual statement about how one object or shape relates to another using natural forms but emphasizing abstract qualities. “I’m making a visual statement and through my work I keep developing my ideas,” she said. Compared to her paintings which contain hundreds of colors, her prints are much more subtle, with only three or four colors.

Grosch taught Davidson Community art classes for five years, with students from grades 1-12. During the time she was teaching, the classes grew from about 12 to 70 students. “I love to teach, but I found the organization of classes and the hassles surrounding them took too much time. I felt I was at the point in my career when I just needed to be an artist,” Grosch said. “One of the reasons I did teach was the idea that people should have a job. It’s hard for one to say, ‘I'm an artist,’ and do just that. That’s your job,” she said. Grosch spends a large portion of each week in business—entering competitive shows and communicating with galleries. She runs six miles a day to release some of the tension from drawing all day. “As a woman growing up I didn’t feel discriminated against except in sports. I wasn’t able to do the sports I wanted so now I’m really into them. I run about thirty miles a week and swim about two miles,” she said. Grosch works very closely with her husband on the Davidson National. “It takes a good solid three weeks of my life running the National. And that is like 12 hours a day,” she said. For the past four years, she has been the Chairperson of the Art Openings for Freshmen and spends a lot of time working with art majors. Grosch is an avid gardener, growing most of what she paints. She is glad Davidson has gone coed. “For me as a human being I felt very isolated when I first came until I realized that I could conduct my work here. Coeducation at Davidson has made my life better because it makes me less conspicuous. It indirectly benefitted me because it made me feel more at ease,” she said.

Elaine Richey teaches violin for the North Carolina School of the Arts and privately in Davidson. She performs with the Piedmont Symphony Orchestra, consisting of the faculty of the School of the Arts. “I began violin when I was four,” said Richey. “I'm from a musical family so it was expected. I think the family plan was for my brother to be a violinist, my sister a pianist, and me a cellist.” Richey was trained as a performer by various teachers in Pittsburgh, Pa. and attended the Oberlin Conservatory. She studied under Ivan Galamian, the top violin teacher in the world, at the Curtis Institute of Music, and was made his apprentice and assistant. “That's where I got my tremendous boost into the teaching of violin,” she said. “His teaching was for my benefit.” She was the Concert Master. [See FACULTY, page 5]