4 The Davidsonian \ April 9, 1976

Potential Importance

A potentially important thing happened this week. Davidson students assembled on President Spencer’s lawn and presented him with petitions of
protest regarding the academic calendar for 1976-77. The fact that over 150 students came with petitions signed by 800 more
students means that it is not just Bo Baskin or the SGA Senate that protests the academic calendar, but a
large portion of the student body. When President Spencer gives this petition to the Faculty Executive Committee, the potential importance
of this week might be realized.

The Faculty Executive Committee has voted overwhelmingly in the past to maintain the academic calendar as it stands. The only
people protesting it had been a few members of the SGA Senate. The Faculty Executive Committee was right to hold
its ground and not be swayed in opinion by a few. Now, however, over half of the student body has
registered its protest and the faculty should reconsider its earlier decision. The issue of the academic calendar has proven itself
to be an important one and steps should now be taken to deal fairly and openly with the issue. We
call for the Faculty Executive Committee to change the calendar. Beginning school earlier in the year, shortening the Thanksgiving break,
and using the days collected by these changes to add the wanted study and travel days seem to be logical
steps to take in dealing with the newly but thankfully legitimized issue.

Black Week

Black Week was a success. Equidistant from the times it has gone unnoticed and the times it has seemed to
be a “blacks only” affair, Black Week this year helped to unify the college. The audiences at each of the
various performances were small but well integrated with people from all parts of the campus. Despite the diversity of those
in attendance, the programs seemed to be a success with everyone. Much of the success must be attributed to the
fine work of the publicity group. People came to see and enjoy the happenings because they knew about them in
advance and could plan to be there. However, the ultimate success was brought about because people were at the events
not as black or white but as an audience. The old invitation to “try it, you'll like it,” this time
given to the college community as a whole by the black students, worked this week. It could work every week.
Hopefully, Black Week will start a precedent. The whole community has been enjoying shows programmed by the black community. It
would be nice and now perhaps reasonable to assume that the whole community, including the black students, would enjoy shows
programmed by the regular programming body, the Union Board.

Wanted: Student interested in helping to compile information for Pre-Law Handbook. All work would be done at Davidson. Two weeks
of work. $150.00 pay. If interested contact Dr. Avinger, Chambers 220 by April 16.

The Davidsonian

Matthew Covington ............ Editor
Chuck Kirchner ............... Managing Editor
Mick Moriarty ................. Business Manager
Louis McMurray ............ Photography Editor
Stu Clancy .................... Production Manager
Troy Cole ..................... Editorial Page Editor
Bruce Holliday & Amanda Hall .... News Editors
Dave Keller & Cathy Landis ....... Sports Editors
David Nelson .................. Features Editor
Molly McGoun ............... Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager ..........

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

MRS. NICHOLLS DECLARES CAMPAIGN LITERATUREA FIRE HAZARD

Rampaging vandals cost themselves

By BILL REED
Staff Writer

My outrage has finally surfaced. I feel a need to express this outrage in the only forum left on campus
which will reach a sufficient number of my peers. During my four years, honor and freedom have been key words
in the Davidson vocabulary. They’ve been used by administrators, faculty, and students alike. The word honor represents that characteristic of
personal integrity which permits, as well as endows us with, the responsibility of our freedom. Because we are “honorable,” we
as students have been given certain privileges and, if you will, freedoms. Nevertheless, we as a community have abused one
of our freedoms and then we wonder at the Administration’s hesitance to deal with us in a responsible manner.

This year, for the first time, the physical plant has found it necessary to keep a separate record and file
for acts of vandalism. Literally hundreds of man-hours and dollars have been spent in replacing windows which have been systematically
knocked out by “mischievous,” inconsiderate vandals. Entire window frames, glass and wood together, have been completely and maliciously destroyed. I
desire to know where the trained questioning mind of the Davidson student is hiding. Where is our sense of moral
decency, of right and wrong? Do we care?

Push a truck in the creek on Patterson Court. Watch in delight as it rolls down the hill. Do you
give a damn? It is not your property. Why not use your own cars? Don’t live vicariously. Destroy your own
property. Break urinals, commodes, and water fountains off the walls, $400.00 damage. For what reasons? Where are the thrills? The
purpose defeats me. Bust out windshields of college-owned pick-up trucks with objects thrown from dormitory windows. Break your own windshields.
My God, what is happening here?

Fire extinguishers are vandalized. It costs $2000.00 a year just to refill them. Fire alarms are ripped off walls. Ceiling
tiles, wall clocks, doors, exit lights, locks, furniture; the list goes on. A total estimate of over $4000.00 is considered
“charitable” by the physical plant. People are in want throughout the world and we squander this type of money not
out of ignorance but out of malicious intent. People are starving and we destroy. The logic of the last statement
may be faulty but it is by far stronger than the logic which condones wanton destruction of private property.

The administration has neither the time nor money to prevent these acts. It would take a police force the size
of Charlotte’s to stop it all. The responsibility for these crimes rests upon the entire student body. (They are indeed
crimes.) We bear the brunt both in loss of freedom and funds from the actions of what I hope to
be a small minority. We are, after all, their peers. Surely the entire campus can’t be blind to these acts.
Our honor has been put into question. As witnesses to this destruction, if we sit idle, we sanction and approve
it. Judgments must be made, lines drawn, and questions asked. These judgments are dependent upon individual values. The lines must
be clear. The questions must be pointed and revealing. Take time to look beyond each destructive act to its ultimate
end. In one sense, it is your property that is being abused.

I read that we here at Davidson are some of the best and brightest. We come from the top 50
percent of our high school class. To have this type of destruction at Davidson is frightening. I end my stay
here at Davidson in a few weeks and am saddened and distraught. I can only attempt to challenge you, my
peers, to constructive and responsible action. Please stop the destruction.
