October 22, 1976

The Davidsonian

HE SITS where Darwin might have - Roger Brown sat on the Galapagos Islands.

Stereo enhances airwaves; to increase range

By CATHY LANDIS
News Editor

With the installation of a new solid-state, 10-watt exciter, modular design transistorized transmitter, WDAV has gone stereo. Installed last Tuesday and Wednesday, the station sent its first stereo broadcast Sunday night at 12:00. Already Golden detects changes since Sunday’s first broadcast. He notes a significant increase in the broadcast radius, a cleaner, more efficient signal, and more space in the studio offices; the new transmitter takes up one-fourth of the space than did the old one.

Golden also notices negative changes in that the transmitter is more susceptible to rumble caused by equipment and picks up background noise. Golden feels most people will not notice the disturbance, and those who do will be able to fix it at their end. Future innovations include increasing the effective radiated power to over 18,000 watts. This move now awaits FCC approval, expected within the year.

Contrary to rumor, the increased power will not lead to replacing student DJs with professionals hired by the college. Golden says the rumor started two years ago when the college first decided to increase WDAV’s power. At the time, the college talked about firing all students and hiring professionals. Golden says, “I don’t know if that was ever even taken seriously.” According to Golden, the college, as of now, plans to use students as DJs.

WDAV, however, plans staff changes of another kind. Ideally, the station wants fewer, yet better qualified DJs with what Golden calls a “professional demeanor. People who will approach their job seriously rather than those who just want their voices to be heard.” Toward that goal, the station has begun to “train freshmen like they’ve never done before.” The station also plans to increase student involvement in behind-the-scenes production.

The staff now consists of 35-40 DJs, all with third-class licenses. Paul Sealy, from WSOC in Charlotte, acts as chief engineer and holds the only first-class license on the staff. One promised innovation which has yet to be released is the inclusion of ABC News in the station’s programming. The news will go on the air only when the Physical Plant Department connects the antenna. The station put in the request a month ago. Golden comments, “It’s a bit of a sore point with me, but I understand. The Physical Plant is inundated with work. It’s just a matter of too many things to do and not enough time to do it in.”

Symposium on Galapagos

By JEFF SICH
Business Manager

The Galapagos Islands are unique and have excited the interest of scientists and tourists alike. “The characteristic pattern of all visitors is ‘I want to go back,’” said Davidson biology professor David Grant. “However, it’s not that they would like to return but that they intend to return.” It is this feeling of uniqueness and personal excitement that five professional biologists will try to convey in a “Symposium on the Natural History of the Galapagos Islands” to be presented Monday, October 25 in Hodson Hall.

The participants include Grant and Professor Tom Daggy, both of whom visited the Islands this summer. Invited to participate are Janice Coffey, associate professor of biology at Queens College in Charlotte, George Folkerts, professor in Auburn University’s department of zoology-entomology, and Glen Woolfenden, biology professor at the University of South Florida-Tampa.

“The symposium will stress the uniqueness of the islands,” Grant said, “and the fact that even in professional biologists there is a very impressive feeling to be gained by seeing the islands and discussing those feelings with others. It is hopeful that the Symposium will carry a little of that.”

The Galapagos Islands lie astride the equator about 600 miles off the coast of Ecuador. The islands, volcanic in origin, represent a biological unit separated from the mainland. Its flora and fauna, derived from the mainland, have had thousands if not millions of years to evolve. Two-thirds of the resident birds and all the reptiles are peculiar to the islands.

“The panelists represent a broad spectrum of interests and expertise in biology.” Grant then continued to lay out the contents of the Symposium, which will include a geological background of the islands, botanical aspects, the evolution and diversity of the bird population, and the classical Darwinian inhabitants, such as the iguanas and tortoises. “Dr. Daggy will try to make the transition from plants to animals in the presentation with an entomological viewpoint.”of the talasiia. I myself will handle the non-insect terrestrial invertebrates,” said Grant, “including spiders and also the marine habitats leading to a discussion of the mammals found there.”

“Everyone who has studied biology understands the importance of the islands in understanding the theories of evolution. To stand in the same places as Darwin stood—and realize that within twenty to twenty-five years of his looking at the life there the theories had crystallized into the Origin of the Species,” Grant thoughtfully said.

Media board investigated
By AMANDA HALL
Sports Editor

Following last week's approval of Article XII of the College Constitution by the entire college community, plans are now being pursued for the establishment of the Student Media Board. This board, as described in Article XI, will serve to govern student publications.

The SGA (Student Government Association) Senate established an ad hoc sub-committee to investigate and to establish guidelines for appointments to the Student Media Board on October 11. It is uncertain whether the Board will be in effect by the 1977 publications elections.

The sub-committee, co-chaired by Hans Watford and Percy Badham, is to investigate the problem of appointment and to recommend procedural guidelines for the board, according to a decision made in the Senate meeting of October 11.

The board will have nine members—two from the administration, appointed by College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., one faculty member chosen according to faculty by-laws, three students chosen according to SGA by-laws, and three at-large members from the college community chosen by the other six members.

“What in effect we’re doing is setting up the SGA By-Laws to determine how to choose the three students. They (the sub-committee) are eventually going to come up with a decision rule to put into the SGA By-Laws,” said SGA President Bo Baskin.

The sub-committee will make procedural recommendations to the board once it is established, according to Watford. “There are two schools of thought in the committee, whether all members should be from within the media community, or all should be completely separate from the media,” he said. “I think it will be a compromise.”

“We need the editors’ ideas, but we don’t want a conflict of interest,” said Watford.

The Media Board will have the power to remove an editor from office. “It’s pretty obvious to everybody that we need in-house people who know what’s going on,” he said.

The Media Board will set up procedural mechanisms for selecting an editor and for removing one, along with drawing up standards of responsible journalism, according to Baskin. “That requires not only fairness of mind, but knowledge of newspaper and Miscellany, or whatever,” he said.

Baskin is not certain the Media Board will be established in time to act during the 1977 publications elections. Watford and Badham have requested a one-week extension for their committee, which will keep the SGA Senate from acting on the recommendations until mid-November. The Board will then need to draw up its procedural guidelines in time for the elections.

“It’s possible it will be set up by election time,” said Baskin. “In the past we've always had a screening process; if the Board will be set up by then it will serve that purpose, if not, the editors will. They’ve always done it in the past.”

“This first go-around of the Media Board is the most important one because they will be setting up the substantive and procedural rules,” said Baskin.

A consensus among student editors is that the Student Media Board should be responsible to the students that the various student publications serve. However, creating a governing body for student publications with power to remove editors has frightened some members of the student media who have been used to operating with less restraint.

“I must honestly admit that including only students who are also student editors on the Board might create certain conflicts centering around their vested interests,” said Publications Board President Matthew Covington. “I agree with Bo that the first construction of the Media Board is important. To serve all the goals that this first board must serve, I see it necessary to include at least two persons involved in student media among the six students who may potentially be on the board,” added Covington.

“What I'm interested in having on the Board is someone who can act in a diplomatic fashion,” Baskin said.