Pin H

Navambai 4;-1977

—

Win ends tough season;
Deep South looms ahead

By PERZ
Staff Writer

The women’s field hockey team finished regular season play Tuesday with a 4-0 win over Salem Academy.

The game capped off a tough season, and according to coach Susie Roberts, “it was one of the best team efforts all year.”

The game remained scoreless for a good part of the first half until Lisa Johnson, coming off an injury-riddled season, scored her second goal of the year. Minutes later, she scored again, this time banging home a shot from 12 yards out.

The scoring was completed in the second half with goals from co-captain Beth Tanner, getting her sixth of the year, and from Lisa Ballantyne.

Last Wednesday, the girls dropped a tough match to Appalachian State, 3-0. Later that same day, they lost an exhibition game to a visiting British team 3-1. Tanner scored the lone goal of the day for the Wildcats.

This year, the schedule was increased from six to 12 games, and the 5-7 record owed to the fact that many tough teams were added to the schedule. Duke, UNC, ECU, and Appalachian State were among the teams that were added this year.

“The record is not indicative of our play. Many games could have gone either way,” said Tanner as she reflected on the season.

Roberts was happy with the pride and team spirit that held the team together during the season, which at one point included a five-game losing streak.

Injuries also plagued the team this year, with 11 of the 17 players injured at some point during the season.

This weekend, the team travels to Greenville, S.C., to play in the Deep South Tournament. The purpose of the tournament is to choose the best individuals in the three-state region of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. Each team plays three games and the players are judged by eight officials.

If chosen, the girl advances to a regional tournament where the same procedure occurs. This system of choosing players is used to get the U.S. National Team, which is formed next summer.

Last year, co-captain Kirk Cameron was chosen at the Deep South Tournament.

Frustrated gridders oppose heavily-favored Delaware

By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

After having lost two games in a row, most football teams hope for the opportunity to play an opponent on whom they can take out their frustrations. But the Davidson Wildcats, who find themselves in this position, will run out on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon, facing the University of Delaware—a team that soundly trounced DC 63-0 last year.

Delaware enters the game with a 4-3-1 slate, yet Head Coach Ed Farrell points out that they are physically strong and very challenging on offense as well as defense. This observation is supported by DU’s 28-0 shutout of Connecticut last weekend.

Still, Farrell does not anticipate a letdown on the squad. On the contrary, he stated that “I know our team is excited about playing Delaware. We were in awe of them last year,” he continued “and we had a very young team.”

Mistakes also led to the lopsided score.

Farrell believes that this year’s edition of Davidson football has a greater amount of confidence now than it did at this time last year. He declared that the squad is mad at themselves over the Hampden-Sydney loss of two weeks ago and that the defeat at VMI last weekend taught the squad that they really are a good team.

“After the first quarter, our defense controlled the VMI offense,” he noted and added “I am hoping that we are developing a genuine respect for our own ability.”

He expressed the conviction that to become a really competitive team that an increase in confidence is “the only thing left to have us completely turn the corner.”

With the season nearing its conclusion, Farrell reacted to what has occurred thus far. “We’ve solidified what we already thought”—that being that Davidson had a very capable team. “We have at times not played as well as we are capable of playing.”

But he added that the only time that the squad has really been outmatched was against Lehigh, and that was due to the nationally recognized passing attack of the Engineers.

The fact that most pleases Farrell has been the consistently good play of the seniors on the squad. With only six on the team, they have been called upon for more leadership than in years past. The coach noted that the seniors have survived some rough seasons, yet their enthusiasm and dedication has remained and it is a major reason for the squad’s improvement.

“Every coach when recruiting players tells them the same thing,” Farrell began “but it is our seniors who have sold the school to the recruits.”

For this reason, Farrell is optimistic about the remainder of this season and next year. “With the dedication displayed by these seniors, our team should get better and better.”