A The Davidsonian February 11, 1977

Grades confine

Students work for grades, not for knowledge. When they get the grade, they quit working. Knowledge is a by-product... sometimes.
Sometimes it is forgotten. It is forgotten because grades symbolize performance, not knowledge, because grades are a tangible unit of
measure. An A means excellent work, a C means average work. An F means stupidity. So grades only discourage students
from broadening their learning experience. Experimentation is too risky if you have to worry about grades. Students have few interests
because they have never been encouraged to develop them. Instead, the “smart ones” learn how to study. They learn to
outguess the teacher, study what will be on the test and make A’s. What does that A mean? It means
the student was well that day, that he had gotten enough sleep, that he had no emotional problems, and knew
enough material to pass that particular test. It does not necessarily mean he knows anything about the subject.

The resulting atmosphere cannot be healthy. Priorities soon are rearranged; relationships get mislaid. Teachers stay at a distance because they
have a weapon that has the ability to make or break a student’s future. The pressure is the greatest disease.
Most everything a student does outside of studying is done to relieve pressure whether it be getting so drunk he
passes out or breaking a window or playing basketball... all for the difference between an 89 or a 90.

What do we propose? The abolition of grades? Yes. At least abolish them for the freshmen and sophomores. Few American
students are ready at 18 to choose their major interest. Instilled with the “true spirit of liberal arts” they should
be encouraged to pursue all areas of learning. Evaluation could be personalized where faculty would give a written report describing
the student’s work. The student might receive positive criticism rather than a negative label. If a person is ready to
go to college the college should not have to motivate him to learn. Only those motivated to learn should go
to college anyway. If the student chooses not to learn, the responsibility is his own, not the school’s. By encouraging
everyone to go to college the American educational system has turned its colleges from institutions of higher learning to institutions
of higher kindergarten where everyone gets four more years to try and grow up.

The system as it stands is exactly why Davidson would not be able to abolish grades. The students would not
know how to handle it. Conditioned from the age of six to strive for a grade instead of knowledge, they
would not know what to do with the freedom. Education without grades sounds idealistic: It is. But so are liberal
arts. They will become a myth if we do not keep some of that idealism. Grades may be the opiate
of the student and the professor. But a college should stimulate its students, not put them to sleep.

The Davidsonian

Editor
Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Bill Barnett ..... Editorial Page Editor
Special Projects Editor
Susan Colan ............ Managing Editors
Warren Soule ......... Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. News Editor
Asst. Features EditorSports Editor LUE VUPEA
Cartoonist AR AMEROr
Asst. Projects Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Grab spring early
By CHUCK KENNON
Managing Editor

The phenomenon of Midwinters 1977 is now part of the student folklore, and it will make a good standard by
which to measure future rites. I, and everyone else who stirred out of their heated cocoons, had a great time.
The weather cooperated fully, and that brings up the grounds for another piercing observation about this school. Davidson, more so
than at other places, is dependent on outside factors to make its various activities successful. Last Friday (if anyone can
remember it) was reminiscent of a typically glorious spring afternoon. The affair between Cannon and Sentelle augured well for next
term, and showed that the partying spirit lives on in the minds and hearts of the faithful few hard-core. But
none of this would have happened had the weather been its usual “Davidson drag.” No, I have not completely lost
my marbles and I’m not going to rag about the fact that we can’t control the six months long monsoon
season here. My point is pretty simple. At the risk of flogging a dead horse to a pulp, I maintain
that the lizards here are so damned complacent and into themselves that the chances for a good time have to
be handed to them on a silver platter with a money-back guarantee.

Depression comes easy during the winter here, and the academic grind doesn’t help any. When the weather does cooperate, spontaneous
madness can save the day, the spirits willing. Even so, great events like Mother’s Finest draw disappointing but not disappointed
crowds. I appreciate the fact that not everyone is as cool as I am, but the Davidson tendency to concentrate
on nerding out in the winter is carried to excess by too many. And their determination to be oppressed by
murderous amounts of work adds to the pain the rest of us have to endure. Raising hell in the winter
isn’t always easy, but with determination a staggering change could be wrought. If only a few of the library rats
would rearrange their rigid little schedules and allot some time for more natural pursuits, the atmosphere would be a lot
better.

The blossoming of Davidson in the spring is a wonder to behold, mostly because everyone is so tired of being
bummed out by the winter. But the prevailing mood of a campus is a group effort. If people refuse to
take everything so seriously, brave the weather occasionally, and strike a blow for rock and roll, then the winter won’t
be such a drag for us all and cruising into the spring will be as natural as a ten o’clock
buzz.

Letter to the Editor
Offer break
To the Editor:

A couple of times this year I have suggested that you might wish to share your holiday break with an
international student. Time is drawing near when they should evaluate their year. How will you come out in that evaluation?
Have you helped to make their year a better one? How many have you learned to know? When you're off
on a skiing jaunt, or just a trip out of town, have you stopped to think they have no way
to get there? True, they have Host Families, and good ones! But the Host Families should not have to do
it all. Spring vacation is coming up. Food service will be closed. You still have time to learn to know
a great bunch. Yes, I admit to prejudice in their behalf.

Ann Louise Thompson
Office of International Education
