The Davidsonian

October 21, 1977

1

AGenut
Mt. Olive

Send $50.00 and five dozen labels (Mt. Olive Pickles), or send $2.00 and no labels. And we'll send you a super white, green, and yellow T-shirt. Please specify sizes: Adult, S, M, L, or XL or children sizes S, M, or L.

Send your money and your name, address, and zip code to:
Mt. Olive Pickle Company
Cucumber & Vine
Mt. Olive, North Carolina 28365

Sidelines

Practice officially opens as Cats hail Pritchett’s return

By PAUL BANTA

Sports Columnist

The question of whether Dave Pritchett would be Davidson's head basketball coach this year has finally been answered — and with a resounding yes.

Pritchett, known for his never-stop approach to building a winning basketball team, returned to Johnston Gym in time for Monday afternoon’s practice. It was the first time he had stepped on the tartan floor since he ran into health problems in July.

He was back at home.

"I'm happy to be back,” he said before Wednesday's workout. “Coach (John) Kochan, Coach (Tom) Abatemarco, and Coach (John) Rhyne did a great job while I was out. I kept in touch. I just wanted to get back for the start of practice.”

Don't look for Pritchett to change from the style that earned him the nickname ‘Pit-Stop’. Although he may not match his record of seven rent-a-cars in one day, he'll be on the go again. His goal of a winning program at Davidson is still the first thing on his mind.

“We're right on schedule,” Pritchett said of the program's progress. “But it takes time to build a program.

“The first two years you just lay the foundations,” he explained. “You have to fill the gaps by recruiting and then establish a style of play.

“Last year we put a lot of priority in recruiting. We needed size and people. Now we've got some young kids in the program with the talent necessary to win.”

Even though the team has only been practicing for a few days, Pritchett has been impressed with what he has seen and the prospects for the upcoming season, which is just a month away.

“We're just working on fundamentals and improving everyone,” he said of the first week's work.

“I’m pleased with the freshmen, but you must remember they are only freshmen. We've gotten a lot of leadership from the older guys. We've got more depth and more people with experience.

“Our expectations are more, but we've only got one guy over 6-7 in the junior and senior classes,” he reminded all. “I don’t want to put undue pressure on the freshmen, either.”

Will more tall players mean Pritchett will change from the deliberate style of a year ago?

“We'll be able to play at a faster pace because we have more people,” he answered. “We’ll try to run the fast break about 35 percent of the time, but if we can’t we'll slow it down and work for the high percentage shot."

Sports’ Note—If you've been waiting for a glimpse of the basketball team in a game situation, your chance to see the Wildcats do just that will come this Friday. The first Red-White intrasquad scrimmage will be at 3:30 pm in Johnston Gym.