October 28, 1977

Straight from England: thoughts on alcohol at Davidson
By RORY T.C. CORNISH
[Helped by John T. TOOCAN]
Staff Writer

I, as an international drinker of some standing (mostly horizontal), arrived at Davidson from a rigorous campaign in the University of East Anglia’s bar and numerous London public house floors to experience the delights of North Carolinian nectar. I approached the 900 Room with Percy, an intimate friend, filled with apprehension: I was the only person on the other side of the counter. Assured that the establishment was open, I purchased a beverage of dubious content. The content, whatever it did contain, was of little alcoholic value to an old war-lord and campaigner like myself.

After a few hours, I was surrounded by self-confessed rednecks who claimed to have alcoholic leanings. They leant in the general direction of my pitcher! I bought another pitcher; they leaned some more! Then they asked, “What do you think of our purdy bar?” I elaborated for another hour. The first thing that struck me was the lack of clientele. When we walked up to the bar, numerous barmen would rush up and ‘demand’ to serve you. In England, the spending public usually outnumbers the bar staff! “Why do so few students frequent the 900 Room?” I asked. My redneck friend, who claimed to be an intellectual who had had too much sun, maintained that it had something to do with the number of stairs. “They just can’t make it up here, man,” he said. “After all that studying, only a few of us die-hards have the stamina to scale the steps to heaven. I put my ability to be in the 900 Room every night to my baseball training,” Rick further advanced.

Disappointed with the effect of numerous pitchers, both to my metabolic and mental processes, I asked, “Why is your beer so weak?” “They only brew it for seven days,” was the reply. “But there are numerous Scotch/Irish in North Carolina,” said I, “and it is well known...

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Although the 900 Room is not the only place students drink, the amount of beer sold by ARA Slater is some indication of how much Davidson students drink. Ron Scott reports the 900 Room serves about 5000 glasses or 450 gallons of beer per week. “This is not really a lot of beer,” reports Scott. “This figure averages out to four glasses of beer per student each week.”

According to Scott, the amount of beer sold depends on the programming. Friday and Saturday nights are the busiest nights for the bar. Scott says, “On a Monday night when there is no entertainment in the room, we sell about 1500 glasses of beer to about 250 students. This averages out to be six glasses of beer per person. The amount of beer sold is below the amount projected by ARA upon opening of the 900 Room. Scott says, “We figured each student would spend about $1.50 a week on beer. We have never reached that amount. It actually averages out that the student body only spends $1.00 a week.”

Scott reports most students spend their money on Strohs beer. The most popular “munchies” are corn chip type foods such as Fritos and Doritos. The 900 Room employs four to five workers on busy nights such as Disco nights. On quieter nights, they employ three. They always have at least two people working: one at the door and one behind the bar. ARA Slater also provides kegs to Patterson Court parties. “On a busy weekend,” reports Scott, “we sell an average of 300 gallons of beer. There are 15½ gallons of beer in one keg which means an average of 150-175 glasses of beer per keg depending upon who is pouring.” Scott provides an average of two kegs for single house parties and four kegs for combined house parties. The combined house parties usually draw around 200-300 people. “Of course, Patterson Court does not always buy its beer from us. There are other distributors in the area,” adds Scott.

The 900 Room is not the only “bar in town.”That although some people die of thirst, the Irish are born with one.” It was approaching 10 pm, they left me to study. Alone in my solitude, I continued drinking, wondering what went wrong with Davidson. “Protestant work ethic,” I thought. “God, how glad I am to be Catholic, and an Irish Catholic to boot.” I drank another pitcher. “What's this, people are starting to arrive in the bar and it’s only 11 pm?” The real hard-core arrived. As the six of us drank and discussed topics ranging from politics to the price of beer, a thought struck me: “American beer must have a delaying effect, yet Bacchus still lives, but not in Davidson. Where the hell is the old Greek gentleman?” 

Point: If James Joyce, Dylan Thomas, Winston Churchill, or even Dean Martin were at Davidson, they would have withdrawal symptoms.

Page 900 Room ID checking policy

Over nights that we had. However, years, neither I nor myself at the former simply inconsis- is often a slack g some of the would let in carding them, others away if show proof of just an unfair way around.” ed out that he planned the room pot potential with this was no definite age control. The only way to establish “a hard line of authority,” as he put it, was to demand that IDs be shown upon entrance. “You have to have your driver’s license to drive a car, and an ID is required to get a check cashed,” he said. “This same principle applies with the 900 Room.” Scott is cognizant of the fact that this new practice goes against the Davidson “atmosphere of trust, truthfulness.” But he points out that if an offense occurred and the beer permit was revoked as a result... “Then those alumni and trustees who had initial doubts concerning the privilege of alcohol consumption in the 900 Room could come back and say, ‘I told you so!’ We might never get the privilege back. As it is, the license is not revoked for a thirty-day period or something, but rather three years. Also, a license revocation could possibly cause a ‘ripple effect’ in our other Slater operations across the state. We just don’t want to take the chance.”

Under the present ID-check system, if a student forgets his ID, he puts his name and address on a card. The card is filed, and upon the student’s next visit to the 900 Room, the card is removed from the file if he has his ID. If he forgets his ID a second time in a row, he is refused entrance. Several students, however, have pointed out the ridiculousness of the situation. One student frequently accompanies a friend into the 900 Room. She is “of age,” but does not drink. One night, she forgot her ID twice in a row and was turned away at the door. A similar situation occurred with a group of “regulars” who visit the 900 Room nightly. Stated one: “Obviously, the doorman knows us by now. If we forget our ID twice, it seems a bit extreme for them to turn us away.” Moreover, the “card-signing” process does not intently correct the problem of underage drinkers in the 900 Room. If a student signs a card, is admitted, and then is found to be underage by an ABC Board investigator, the simple signing of a card does not protect Slater from having its beer license revoked in any way. 

An alternative plan has been presented to Scott, in which all students would sign a list containing their birthdate, address, etc. Hence, if he ever forgot his ID, he would sign a card, and signatures would be compared. When presented with this plan, Scott insisted that inducing students to carry IDs is the best possible solution, yet stated that he and the Union Board might possibly make refinements in the future. “We are continually pursuing better ways to work it,” he said. In the meantime, students will have to put up with the inconvenience of proving their identification before being granted the privilege of consuming their “favorite beverage” in the 900 Room.