September 16, 1977 The Davidsonian

[Continued from page 3]

women in his classes, Ortmayer expressed delight at the enthusiasm and intelligence of the women at Davidson. Ortmayer was hired in May shortly after the College’s Christian tenure controversy. “I was surprised it had made such news especially with the national media. It impressed me that students and faculty worked so quickly and effectively to change the policy.”

Ortmayer’s nonacademic interests include golf, tennis, travel, and an interest in coaching women’s intercollegiate volleyball.

David G. Rice
New Professor of History

David G. Rice specializes in ancient history. Although it seems like a broad area, Rice’s interests cover the gamut, from ancient historiography to the Roman Republic; from Hellenistic history to the Late Empire. Rice spent the last six years at Williams College and he frankly admits he came to Davidson because he “needed a job.” Rice was apparently aware of the frequent comparisons between Davidson and Williams, but he declined to give first-hand information. “Although I have been here only a short time I have found the people very pleasant and friendly and helpful,” he said.

Rice was in Europe when the controversy occurred. “I was very disturbed by the information contained in various newspaper accounts,” he explained. “I am pleased that the policy is to be changed and hope that in the future Christians and non-Christians will find that Davidson is a congenial and supportive place in which to teach.” Rice is an avid science fiction fan and also enjoys golf and football in his spare time.

John Brockway
New Professor of Psychology

John Brockway attended Lafayette University in Pennsylvania and upon completing his undergraduate studies served in the army as a military intelligence officer. He continued his studies at Penn State University where he received his master's and doctorate in Psychology.

[see NEW, page 12]

Media Board drafts policy guide

The Student Media Board has completed a tentative General Policy Guide that will govern all student media at Davidson. In drawing up the Policy Guide, the Board was instructed to “interpret the community standards of decency,” but Board Chairman Greg Hankins admitted that that was a problem. “The Board did not want to be really specific in interpreting the community standards of decency.”

The basic policy for the Student Media of Davidson College is set forth in Article XI, Section 5 and Article XII, Section 6 of the Constitution of Davidson College. In addition, these items of policy are established:

1. All student communications media shall adhere to their stated purposes so that stability may be maintained for the benefit of all staffs, readers or listeners, and the general college community in spite of regular changes in executive and staff positions.

2. The Student Media Board delegates its authority to appoint editors and general managers to the student body through election, but will screen and recommend candidates to serve as chief elected officers of student communications media and may fill vacancies by appointment.

3. Chief elected officers may suspend staff members for proper and stated cause; however, the suspended member has the right to appeal to the Student Media Board for reinstatement.

4. Student media will not discriminate against individuals on the basis of race, sex, religion, or ethnic origin.

5. Student media will adhere to libel, postal, and other relevant regulations governing the American commercial press.

6. Student media will follow, where applicable, the codes of ethics of the American Society of Newspaper Editors."ting decency," he said, and instead used general language founded upon Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, the Honor Code, and the Code of Responsibility. The most specific "decency of Newspaper Editors, the National Conference of Editorial Writers, and the National Association of Broadcasters."

7. All student media and their staffs should measure themselves against the ideals of Davidson College as expressed in the Statement of Purpose, Honor Code, and Code of Responsibility. Care should be taken especially in the publication of profanity, nudity, or sexual descriptions that such material in its context should serve a purpose valuable enough to warrant the risk of offending some readers or listeners. Because ultimately the question of decency is a matter of judgment, media officers are strongly urged to bring any such questions before the Media Board in advance of publication or broadcast.

8. Complaints against student media should first be directed to the appropriate chief elected officer for consideration. If the complainant is not satisfied with the subsequent action, he or she may appeal in writing to the Media Board through its chairman.

9. The Media Board will maintain a standing Committee on Budget and Finance to handle budget and financial matters of student media. It will include representatives of all student media and at least one person who is also a member of the Media Board to serve as liaison. (This Committee will replace the old Publications Board.)

Interpretation states that "care should be taken especially in the publication of profanity, nudity, or sexual descriptions that such material in its context should serve a purpose valuable enough to warrant the risk of offending some readers or listeners." Another section instructs the student media to adhere to the codes of ethics adopted by the American Society of Newspaper Editors, the National Conference of Editorial Writers, and the National Association of Broadcasters.

The Policy Guide allows the Board to screen and recommend candidates for the positions of editors and general managers of student media, but maintains the current process of popular election of those chief officers. The Board will maintain a standing Committee on Budget and Finance to handle financial matters of the student media. That Committee, which is to replace the old Publications Board, will include representatives of all student media and one Board member to provide liaison.

The Guide directs those with complaints against the student media to contact the appropriate chief elected officer. If the complainant is not satisfied with the officer’s actions of redress, the complaint may be made in writing to the Media Board. The Board has scheduled an Open End on Monday, September 19 in the Morrison Room to give the College community an opportunity to comment on the Guide.

The Student Media Board consists of three students chosen by the SGA, one member of the Faculty chosen by his colleagues, two administrative officers appointed by the President, and three additional members chosen from the College community by these six members.

Give Him Black Walnut
Beautiful grain. Flawless finish. Prized in furniture. Even more distinctive in a pen and pencil by Hallmark. Black Walnut! A handsome, unique gift from the Hallmark Executive Timber line. Also available in wenge, cordia, rosewood, tulipwood, and teak. $30.00 the set / $15.00 single

THE VILLAGE STORE © 1976 Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Main St. 892-8988
the needlecraft center
Davidson, N.C.
LEARN TO KNIT
Free instruction with purchase of yarn
SALE SEPT: 17-24
Hours: 10:00 - 5:00 - Mon.-Sat.