= Admissions accused of prejudice: what kind of students do we want?

Last weekend a Davidson student made arrangements with two freshman girls to house two prospective white students who were visiting
for the weekend. One freshman girl was black; the other was white. When the Admissions Office discovered one of the
prospective students would be staying with a black girl, they made arrangements for the two prospective students to stay in
other rooms. Why? The Admissions Office was afraid a prospective might not come to a college which housed her with
a black. The incident itself reeks of uncalled-for prejudice. But the implications of the incident are even deeper.

Does Davidson want students who would get upset over staying one weekend with a black person? The Admissions Office keeps
telling everyone they are searching for diversity in the student body whenever they are accused of maintaining a homogeneous student
body. Their actions do not support their words. If Davidson welcomes people who are so prejudiced without challenge they will
never get a diverse student body. And if Davidson singles out black students they are not welcoming them into the
community. As Dr. Spencer said, “Black students must feel they are not merely welcome to come, but that there are
no barriers to their full participation in every phase of college activity.” Are our black students just tokens? If they
are, Davidson is not only out of date, it is immoral.

Theft threatens Code

The number of books stolen from the library by both students and professors seriously violates the Honor Code. What does
it mean when 262 books are stolen every year? It means the culprits are infringing on the rights of those
who use the library correctly. The Davidson library’s policy is extremely liberal. If you take it for granted, go to
a school which has metal detectors, closed stacks, or security guards and see how you like it. If you want
Davidson to resort to such measures, continue taking books out without checking them out. You will force the library to
adopt stricter policies. If you do, you are not being fair to the rest of us. You do not need
to steal books. They are available to you in the library, free of cost. All you have to do is
check them out, then bring them back for others to use. It is not that hard to be considerate.

If guilt does not bother you, maybe a monetary motivation will. Our tuitions pay the $3,930.00 it costs the library
to replace the stolen books. With all the screaming about what this college should be spending money on, we do
not need to spend money on stolen books. The best way (at this point, before it goes too far) to
stop the problem is peer pressure. The Honor System works on constant awareness of its presence and its potential effectiveness.
We have to keep reminding ourselves, reminding our friends it exists or we will not have it anymore.

The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian - Catherine Landis ........... Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair............. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Managing Editor
Photography Editor
Production Manager
Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Cartoonist
Photographer
Focus Editor
Inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Letters to the Editor

Sumwalt retaliates

To the Editor:

I would like to make it clearthat this is not a retaliation, but merely a reply to the letter from
a “concerned friend” in last week’s The Davidsonian. I would like to identify myself as the accused person in the
article, “Loudness Lambasted” concerning the excessive loud music. Unlike last week's writer, I don’t need to hide my identity, nor
do I tend to use the paper to vent my personal grievances. First of all, I apologize for the loud
music to the “concerned friends,” all my hallmates, and all the people in the library whom I was indirectly accused
of disturbing. I agree that loud music can be inconsiderate. It puzzles me, however, even after questioning hallmates, that I
haven't received one complaint of any kind this year concerning loud music. Needless to say, the article surprised me. While
commenting on the contents of last week’s letter, I will respect his attempt to remain anonymous. Although the point was
a good one, I fail to see how such phrases as “an SAE-ish idea,” “being on the basketball team,” and
“they aren’t as cool as they want you to think they are,” are relevant to the principle of the article.
I never realized “loud music” involved so many things. Personal gripes are one thing, cheap shots another. But perhaps there
is a lesson from all this, for I am sure this problem exists elsewhere. For those who wish to express
their feelings, it is not necessary to go to the Dean of Students and have your subject reprimanded, or even
go through The Davidsonian in any attempt to ridicule your subject. Be really ingenious and use such sophisticated procedures as
perhaps a knock on the door, an anonymous note slipped under the door, or even resort to such drastic measures
as asking the person to turn his stereo down. (Some of the recent models have a volume control.) But as
stated earlier, this is a sophisticated procedure and takes a small amount of intelligence. In closing, I would like to
respond to one of the relevant issues brought out last week. Yes, I am “on the basketball team, even though
I don’t play much.” I only hope my shortcomings pertain to a physical nature, and not a lack of class.
That must be a very tough problem to deal with, isn’t it, my “concerned friend.”

Mark Sumwalt '78
Davidson College

Reedy’s death mourned

The following letter from the Bushiangala Action Group in Kenya was received recently by Ken Wood of the Experiential Programs
office in regard to the death of Davidson student George Reedy '78.

To the Editor:

We are very sorry over the death of your student, George Reedy. George had come to Kenya and had started
to stay with us in our community. He had become the Headmaster of a neighboring school. This was a Harambee
Secondary School which needed a young man like George to organize community members to develop the school with any little
funds from their community resources and pockets. With George’s tolerance and patience, he was able to cope with these everyday
problems and to work with the community to build the school. We had felt very happy with the type of
work that George was doing with us here and we were forging ahead progressively to bring up the school and
community. We were very sad to lose such a hard-working young man. We hope you will bear with the loss
of George in your college. We also know that the college must have felt that it has lost a very
useful man that would be very helpful both to the Nation and the world as a whole. We wish God
puts the soul of George in a good resting place.

Yours sincerely,
Bushiangala Harambee Action Group
P.O. Box 461
Kakamega, Kenya

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday will
ordinarily be printed that week.
