March 25, 1977

The Davidsonian

Read for country?

By JOE CRAIG

Staff Writer

In one of his best-known songs, Waylon Jennings asks the rhetorical question, “Are you ready for the country?” Indeed, country
music is definitely here to stay, and the Davidson student, whether he/she is a true country fan or an innocent
novice, has ample opportunity to be exposed to the infernal stuff.

The area’s most prominent station in the country sound is WSOC-FM (103.7), located in Charlotte. WSOC has grown so rapidly
in the past few years that it is now second only to WBT in number of listeners, according to a
recent Charlotte-area poll. And John Harper, the 6-9 am weekday Disc Jockey, is a major reason for their growing popularity.

Kays Gary, of the Charlotte Observer, describes him as “old, easy-going Harper with the 1950’s bedroom eyes...the fellow whose cello
voice introduces all the country music records with the fiddles.”

There’s more to Harper than just his weekday show. He must be considered a driving force in Charlotte’s country music
scene. He was the one to persuade WSOC to change from pop-contemporary-easy listening to country a few years back. His
Saturday night bluegrass program features guest artists and gives exposure to the wealth of local talent in the area.

But country music enthusiasts need not only rely on radio. Charlotte has a growing group of country-oriented night clubs. One
of the best night clubs is Country City, U.S.A., located on 4608 Wilkinson Blvd. Bill Jordan and Lib Hatcher, the
co-owners, have developed a place where, according to Jordan, “Folks can come and listen to good country music in a
pleasant atmosphere without having to worry about rough ol’ rednecks who get drunk and rowdy and start pickin’ fights.”

Lib and Bill stoutly maintain that country music listeners are “a nicer kind of people,” and if the reception we
got the night we visited is any kind of indication, they might have a point. At a Valentine’s party for
John Harper, given by his fan club, we were told to help ourselves to innumerable items of food arrayed on
a long table.

Harper's ties with Country City, U.S.A., are close. He (like most people) didn’t like the “twanging guitars and whiney voices
of country music at one time,” but feels like country music in Charlotte has great potential, with plenty of room
to grow. “There’s always been a stable audience in the area, who always listened to country music because they didn’t
know there was any other kind. But now, country is achieving an identity; the Nashville sound is branching out, and
various tributaries are developing, such as Willie Nelson, Waylon Jennings, and Jeffrey Jeff Walker down in Texas. And Charlotte is
feeling this heightened interest as well.”

Nowhere is country music more alive than at Country City, U.S.A. Membership is $1; cover is $2 on Wednesdays; women
get in free on Thursdays; Friday nights is $3 for men and $2 for women; and Saturday night is $3.

Wednesday night is talent night, and on Saturday nights, George Stoner and his Country-Lovin’ Band provide some really excellent entertainment.

So if you’re looking for a radical departure from hard rock or beach, Country City, U.S.A., is definitely a viable
alternative. And the cravings of real country music addicts (like myself) are certainly satisfied.

Meisburg and Walters, an acoustic “country-pop with fun” perform in the 900 Room Monday, March 28 and Tuesday, March 29.
Show times are to be announced.

They have performed in concerts with Pure Prairie League, Leo Kottke, Ike and Tina Turner and others. Record World describes
the act as “some fast pickin’ in their country sound and some fine voice harmony,” while Pat Harbolt of the
Tallahassee Democrat describes the two as “fine lyricists and musical craftsmen.”

MARY JO CLARK, Joe Craig, Bill Jordan and Lib Hatcher at Country City, U.S.A.

PIEDMONT’S BANCLUB ANNOUNCES

GET CASH AT OVER 1000 BANKS.

instantly.

Piedmont BanClub members can now cash their personal checks at over 1,000 banks, with more than 3,000 locations throughout the
United States. Wherever you go, your Piedmont BanClub checking account allows you to cash your personal check for any amount
you need up to $200. All you do is go to any BanClub member bank, show your BanClub membership card,
write a check and you'll receive cash instantly.

CheCash — one more good reason to check with Piedmont Bank.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY

Member F.D.I.C.

FASHION CENTER

Dreamed of owning & operating your very own ladies boutique? Our program includes fixtures, training, grand opening, continuing assistance &
beginning inventory. NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY. All this for as little as $12,500. Call SOUTHERN BELLE FASHIONS TODAY TOLL FREE.
