March 11, 1977

JUGGLING gives students a tension release.

(Hunter Jennings)

Spirit infects jugglers

[Continued from page 1]

Brown, however, agrees that the most infectious stage lasts only the first couple of days and afterwards people are more willing to save practice for free time.

Most jugglers agree that it is a good tension-reliever, a good thing to relax with in times of stress. But there are other reasons for juggling. For Peeples, “juggling is just one of the varied ways of drawing attention to myself.” Brown, who noticed that juggling is within reach, explained, “What I especially like about juggling is watching that moment of discovery... Juggling is a great springtime thing.”

Plans for an advanced juggling class for spring term are crystallizing. George Draughon, a Davidson ('72) alumnus, has agreed to instruct the class. Draughon studied mime in France on a Watson fellowship and attended the Ringling Brothers Clown College. He has also worked at Circus World and now lives in Charlotte.

Another opportunity for jugglers will be the arrival of the Locomotion Circus on March 25. This outfit featuring Bounce the Clown and Cyrus will offer a 10 a.m. performance in front of Chambers and an evening performance in the 900 room.

The spirit of juggling is evident in the spirit of the juggling class at Davidson. A special fellowship exists among jugglers. As Brown expressed it, “People in the class take it as their challenge to teach another person to juggle. That challenge is built into the spirit of the class.”

DINING SERVICE SPECIALS

Special St. Patrick’s Day Dinner
Thursday, March 17th
5-6:30 PM

Charcoal Steak
Baked Potato with Chives
Green Beans
Spinach
Green Pea Soup
Salad Bar
Assorted Desserts
Variety of Beverages

Snack Bar Special
Tuesday, March 15th

Mexican Chili Hot and Saucy
$.50 per 12 Oz. bowl
Ice water free.

Gynecology termed too specialized care

[Continued from page 8]

One main reason for not providing adequate gynecological care for women is that gynecology is considered a specialized branch of medicine and the whole philosophy of the college and the Infirmary is against specialized medicine. But is gynecological care for women actually a specialty that is comparable to others such as dermatology and ophthalmology?

Van pointed out that a frequent argument against providing that kind of service to women is that “if they provide that they will have to provide a similar counterpart for males—but there isn’t one.”

Providing adequate birth control counseling and gynecological care is not catering to women, it is simply attending to the different health care needs of one third of the students at Davidson.

...Scholars compare

[Continued from page 10]

specialize in at age sixteen, and continue on with that specialty when they enter a university. Exams come at the end of four years and encompass the entire four-year period. The liberal arts concept as Americans see it is non-existent in Britain; students specializing in history, for example, take only history courses. Patrick emphasized that there was hardly any interaction between the various classes at British universities, and that the upperclassmen were rather “snooty.” Sidney was surprised at the number of professors that lectured at Davidson. “In England, one sees more of the class discussion format.”

All were amused at the not-so-subtle differences in speech. “Listening to Americans, especially those from the South, is like listening to an entirely foreign language,” said Lucy. Patrick laughingly pointed out that the meanings of slang terms vary drastically. “I was at a party the other night, and the girl I was dancing with remarked, ‘You shag brilliantly!’ With an obvious gleam in his eye, Patrick remarked, ‘I dared not tell her what the word ‘shag’ meant in England!’”

First Annual Craftsmen’s Spring Festival
Saturday, April 30
Sunday, May 1
War Memorial Building

Emphasis on homemade crafts under such categories as:

Modern
Contemporary
Homebaked Goods
Country
Metal Sculpture
Weaving
Ceramics
Candlemaking
Rug Making
Jewelry
Macrame
Needlecraft
Woodcraft

Craftsmen who are interested in entering a booth must contact our WAR MEMORIAL office (664-5449) for an application. The $5 entrance fee covers both show days, one 72"x30" table and one 8'x10' floor space. You must bring additional tables if needed and MUST provide table coverings (e.g., sheet). Deadline for applications is April 15.