February 4, 1977 The Davidsonian

Staff hears administrative contradictions

NE LANDIS

WDAV has stories about red in the in- e move. “I’ve heard what’s really the piece,” Sid ion manager, “We’ve
heard so many pieces that any word is conceivable,” elaborates on the heard. Paul iion’s engineer, move will require $100,000.
To go to the trans- ment, which includes iter, tower, and relay system to from the Union Gas Pipeline will
go toward the package.

The most controversial expenditure is the $30,000 automation equipment. The equipment could be preprogrammed to run for at least three
days. Barrett says, “I’m worried that the college will turn the music over to a professional programmer. The staff interest
is that the students will have a free hand in the musical policy and that students will be on the
air.”

Barrett has two major worries. First, he fears the staff will be cut from 55 to 5. The second concern
is the type of music which will be played. “Since it’s a money-making venture and they’re aiming at the alumni
in Charlotte, I just can’t see how they’d let us program for the students.” He goes on to say, “Lawrimore
said we must increase the quality of the programming which in essence means training the less professional DJs. This could
mean Musac, Minty Carney, or John Denver, but I strongly doubt that he’ll want rock. In other words, he wants
the station to be for the people outside of Davidson instead of inside.”

Knowing the power and delicacy of the automation equipment, Bill Burkholder fears renovations of the Union basement will have to
be made. He says the equipment will be put in the hall blocking the entrance to the counseling offices, bookstore,
and print shop. A tunnel would then have to be built to provide a separate entrance to WDAV.

Burkholder names future expenses to be the replacement of the old equipment. “They plan to use the present equipment for
production purposes. This equipment is 16 years old. It’s falling apart and noisy.” Barrett, Sealy, and Burkholder all feel the
increase would require the hiring of a full-time engineer and possible programmer to oversee the general function of the station.
Federal regulation of the new transmitter will have to be in operation all year long which would require people to
operate the station during the year.

According to Burkholder, if they decide to invest in automation equipment to handle the work, “students would not have time
to handle the paperwork involved.” The staff is frustrated with the ambiguity in the information they have received. Bill Holliday,
daytime music pro-

Students concerned with change

Lawrimore to mission to in- with the FCC. At the commission to broadcast,” will be responsible classical and broadcasting students
will program temporary broadcasting to Golden. Talk about hiring an employee to program the college for,” he said.

Radio station power play

Will it raise money for the college or will it be an enormous waste? Will expensive, enormous automation equipment be
purchased at the tune of $40,000? Where will it fit in an already crowded Union basement? No one seems to
know the answers to these basic questions, and FCC approval of the license application will occur by February 15th. The
college must begin work on the station within three months to retain the license. If they stall and hem and
haw about answering these questions, they could conceivably wait until May 15th, when everyone is worried about graduation and exams
and not their dealing. He said the new station is an “opportunity for Davidson students to do something professional, rather
than having WDAV just a plaything.” Others in the administration, including Development Vice President, Dwayne Dittman, have referred to the
station asa toy. That is a frightening attitude to be seeing from the administration and is largely a rationalization of
their position, whatever that may be. The unanswered questions are many: By how much will the staff be cut? Will
there be a professional manager, or will the station still be student-run? How much control will students have over individual
programs? How many educational shows will be produced here, rather than bought ready-prepared? Will this actually open up opportunities for
students to do something really good?

Although the number of student DJs will be reduced to the highly qualified, Golden has been promised “(the cut) will
not be a wholesale slaughter,” by Lawrimore. The WDAV staff is anxious about the prospect of an automation system and
the reduction of students able to broadcast. “I am startled by the students’ reaction to this,” said Spencer. “I thought
the students knew about it and were excited. I thought it was an opportunity to do something professional rather than
have just a plaything. This will open up all kinds of opportunities for students to do something really good.”

“It has always been the assumption that this will be student-run,” he continued. “Students can be involved in news programming
and student DJs for classical music.” “If you want WDAV to be a student activity it would be very inexpensive
to have a carrier current,” Spencer said. Golden blames the students’ anxiety on the fact that the discussion of the
power increase has been kept low key. “Nobody understands what is going on is the basic problem,” he said. “There
has had to be a sort of silence, it’s not something that should be flaunted, but should be talked about
openly.”

“But you can’t go around saying we’re going to have a radio station when the Board of Trustees hasn’t decided
yet. So you have to keep it low key.” Barrett Grammer says, “When we first heard of the upping of
the wattage everyone was excited. Then some things we began hearing were conflicting with what Lawrimore had said before.” “Lawrimore
said things like we’d have to trim down the staff to the competent ones and we’d have only as much
staff as we could justify. We heard from another source that the automation would be most of the time with
pre-programmed music.”

“We found out also,” Holliday continues, “that they would have to hire a full-time engineer plus I don’t think they
would trust the programming to students, which would entail a full-time programmer.” “On the advertising pamphlet for the automation equipment
one of the biggest things is that it takes only one person to run the equipment, a receptionist, and someone
to sweep up the floor. So you can see how many students would be needed.” Janet Coleman, a WDAV DJ,
expresses the staff’s main concern. “We feel that the money could be spent better elsewhere. The figures are close to
$100,000 and we feel that could be better spent than in a radio station we don’t need.”

Barrett expresses his frustration by saying, “I’m in a position of responsibility but I don’t know to whom I am
responsible. I do know I’m responsible to the student interest.” He went on to say, “I will suspend any staff
action until the trustees reach a decision.” He concludes, “It’s real ambiguous, but everything I know is ambiguous.”

THE WDAV STAFF is worried that only five of these people will be allowed to work with the station after
the power increase. (Hunter Jennings)

DO
Saturday 2:00 PM
Sunday 2:00 PM & 7:00 PM
PRESENTS:
Love Auditorium
$4.00
