March 25, 1977

Athlete of the Week
Prowess abounds in Castelein’s game

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

As the tennis season progresses, Allard Castelein remains number one.

It is unusual that an international student competes in one of Davidson’s varsity sports, and more unusual is that he is number one, but Allard Castelein, a native of the Netherlands, is a vital member of Davidson’s varsity tennis team.

Tennis teams do not exist within the educational system in the Netherlands as in most of Europe. Consequently, a series of tennis clubs has sprung up within the country due to the recent tennis craze.

These clubs compete with each other for eight weeks, then the tournament season begins as each club member suddenly becomes an individual player.

Allard has played in many tournaments. Most of the time for plain ole fun, he says.

While a junior in high school, Allard was selected as a member of an elite group, the National Junior Training, and placed fourth in the 18 and under National Junior Championships last summer.

Are there any differences between Dutch tennis and American tennis? The Dutch play on red clay courts, which are much slower than the composite courts here.

“The weather here was very good in the fall,” noted Castelein, “much like Holland.”

But he would have liked to play much more during the winter.

“In Holland we play outdoors for six months, and then indoors from October through March.” He agrees, though, that it is “better” here because the warm weather comes so much sooner.

Castelein finds it hard to divorce studies from his mind while playing tennis.

“Jeff Frank has really stressed this, that we study hard and then play hard, but don’t mix.”

What does Allard intend to do when he returns to Holland? “Well, I want to go to med school, but that all depends on the lottery.”

Allard had successfully completed the requirements for applying to med school, but because of the arbitrary selection system, he was not admitted. He hopes to get a luckier number next year.

Allard is known for being a cool, collected player. “There’s no way you can show your excitement according to the rules. Tennis is a very sophisticated sport.

“I don’t think it’s proper to yell or throw rackets...even though I have a tough time not doing that.”