Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian
February 11, 1977

Foreign studies

Davidson o Grizzard

By BOB GRIZZARD
Staff Writer

The opportunity Davidson provides for students to travel and study outside of the United States is indeed one of its
greatest assets. I have travelled abroad on both academic and non-academic ventures. In the spring and summer of 1975, I
worked for the Knox Community Development Foundation in Spalding, Jamaica, and in the summer of 1976 I studied on the
Davidson program at St. Anne’s College of Oxford University. Either way, every Davidson student should seriously consider spending some time
away from Davidson during his four-year, twelve-term “career.” One cannot escape the fact that Davidson is a small, fairly homogeneous
community, and any student with a sensitivity toward the “outside world” should go and live in that world to better
understand Davidson, the “outside,” and himself. The most frequent result is a greater toleration of each.

The benefits of living in and learning about another culture are certainly significant in themselves. At the very least, living
abroad provides a new vocabulary, both literally and figuratively, with which to understand and speculate upon one’s own limited world.
Equally important are the benefits time off from Davidson can provide for the academic grind itself. The ten-week term, relentless
and intense, demands a matching enthusiasm and intensity from students, and for twelve consecutive terms, despite those all-too-short summers, this
sort of intensity can be unbearable. If three months is the longest you have been away from academia since you
were six years old, don’t you owe yourself a new perspective?

WINE, WOMEN, and romance—you do have the option.

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

It only takes an int Marburg mires G burg, operat Germany building antees “If the people at Davidson knew beforehand
what the year abroad was really like there would be no juniors left on campus!” Tony Boon '76, smiled as
he began to describe his experiences while spending his junior year at Marburg, Germany. “I had not seriously considered going
JYA until my sophomore year. Without a doubt that year enhanced my Davidson experience more than anything else. It would
take ten years to even begin to learn from books what you can learn from experiences.”

Politics and Economics go Europe

By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

To acquaint them with the political and economic aspects of European culture, twenty-three Davidson students participated in the European Economics
Seminar last month. These students, accompanied by Professors Edmondson and Kincaid, toured London, Brussels, Paris, Bonn, and Luxembourg for an
extensive four weeks. “The trip was tremendous,” commented Sophomore Dave Piper. “It was well-planned and organized. There were no major
foul-ups at all.” Dave, an Economics major, believes firmly in the value of a foreign studies program. “Davidson is certainly
an enclosed, limited environment. Academic stimulus is confined to the classroom and the library. Foreign study gives you the unique
opportunity to see what you learn. It provides the stimulus and excitement to make learning a living experience, something which
doesn’t exist here.”

Linda Jones, a senior Economics major, felt the same enthusiasm for the program. “It has certainly spurred me on in
my area of study. It was the highlight of my academic career.” Both Linda and Dave feel the cultural differences
between Europe and the U.S. Linda commented, “It’s a much slower way of life. What surprised me the most was
how quiet the cities seemed! Even on the subways everyone seemed to whisper!” Linda continued,

---‘‘Another big difference is the greater accessibility of the arts at a much lower cost to the public.” Dave was
impressed with other cultural differences. “The people are definitely more liberal and the culture much richer.” Both referred to how
young the U.S. really was in comparison to Europe. Linda commented, ‘‘It’s obvious how little the U.S. has been through
when you walk through parts of Europe. It’s so old! You get the awesome feeling that you are a part
of history. It’s a powerful feeling,’’ Linda concluded.

Oxford, England

Dr. Anthony Abbott, who headed the summer program at St. Anne’s in Oxford last year, considers it “invaluable in putting
us in touch with our own heritage in that we consider ourselves part of the English-speaking culture.” “It was a
total breaking away from Davidson. You get to see a culture that is different than that of a tourist’s perspective
because you are actually living with them,” said Abbott. Ann Wicker stated, ‘‘But like any university town, all the English
students are gone in the summer.” Although not in classes with English students, according to Kathleen Golding, ‘traveling is the
best way to meet a lot of people.” The general discovery was that the adjustment is almost non-existent. ‘‘Because there
is no language problem,” says Dr. Abbott, ‘‘you can immediately immerse yourself in, and enjoy, the change in culture.” “It’s
a maturing experience,” states Holmes Harden, “for virtually the first time, you take the sobering fact that you’re off on
your own with no place to turn except your own resources.”

Madrid, Spain

Dr. Lois Kemp, who led the pilot program to Spain in the spring of 1975, ‘‘gives the students the opportunity
to live the language such as they never have and through the language to gain a comprehension of different people
and a different way of thinking.” A major observation of the students was that the course load was too cumbersome
to allow them to take full advantage of their situation. “Foreign study is demanding in every way,’’ says Mark Rabil,
‘‘because you can’t escape from studies—it’s around you 24 hours a day.” Dr. Kemp echoed this sentiment, “The students worked
hard. They never left the subject they were studying... they were totally immersed in it in a very different way.
“In living with a Spanish family, as well as having a tutor their own age who did many outside things
outside the tutorial with them, allowed the students to easily submerge themselves into the culture.” “The only problem,” says Rabil,
‘‘is that for the first month you can’t always say what you're thinking.” Says Mark Rabil, ‘‘It makes you appreciate
the fact that a university or college is not the only place to get an education.”

ALLARD CASTELEIN gives his point of view. (Hunter Jennings)

[Continued from page 1]

Students who were interviewed generally agreed that they like the fact that the college is small. A native of France,
Mireille Pont said, “It’s nice to be so close to the professors, to see them and talk anytime. Where I
went to school before, there were many students—600 students in one class with the professor being through a microphone.” Pont
said she gets to know many people, but she says, “The relationships are very superficial; you just say hi and
how are you.” She attributed this superficiality, however, to the academic burden on the students. The area of academic pressure
is one place where exchange students have ad-
