December 9, 1977

reading. Page upon page.

LIBRARY REFERENCE Coordinator Mary Beatty’s work involves a lot of
[David Litaker]

Christmas comes

in poetry reading

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

North Carolina poets Cal Atwood and Margaret Booth believe the great
literature of Christmas should be read aloud. Singer Laura Bennet, on
guitar, dulcimer, and mandolin, is ready to bring old and new carols to
life.

The three performers, calling themselves the Traveling Troubadours,
will make a special appearance in the

900 Room of the College Union at 4:00

Sunday, December 11 to present “A
Christmas Wassail,” a unique Christmas readers theatre including both
literature and music.

The group will examine the meaning of Christmas through prose and
poetry ranging from a sixteenth-century Christmas greeting and excerpts
from Charles Dickens’ A Christmas Carol to works by such modern
writers as Dylan Thomas and Louis Untermeyer.

Bennet will accompany the presentation with some of the most beautiful
carols chosen especially for their lyrics.

The Traveling Troubadours will focus on five major themes in their
production: the symbols of Christmas, both religious and not, cynicism
about the holiday, the origin of and continuation of the tradition of gift
giving, Bethlehem and, in the final four poems, the meaning of Christmas
to Modern Man.

Hosted by the Poetry Committee of the College Union, “A Christmas
Wassail” will last approximately 60 minutes and is free to students and
the public.

Macon
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages

and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday — Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center

Mooresville. 663-1503

The Three Musketeers
POP FILM

8 and 10:30 pm
admission $1

Saturday

Know your library,

By ANN SHAEFFER
Staff Writer

Dr. Mary Beatty is the reference coordinator and associate director of
E.H. Little Library. She is personable and enjoys working with both students and faculty.

Dr. Beatty is a native of Davidson. She attended Agnes Scott College for
her undergraduate work and went on to receive her Ph.D. in Classics from
the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

She was hired by Westhampton, the female counterpart of the University
of Richmond, where she taught Latin and served as head of the
ancient language department.

In 1973 Dr. Beatty decided to return to Davidson and accepted the
post of reference coordinator.

Her position is a new one, created as part of a five-year program to
expand reference service, and funded partly by the College and partly by a
grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Council on
Library Resources.

Dr. Beatty’s job entails not only preparing handouts and helping with
individual projects, but close cooperation with classes as a whole.

Last year alone she visited over forty classes, explaining the available
resources pertinent to that particular class’ assignment. She is especially
interested in acquainting the freshmen with the resource materials available
in the library.

For example, there are specific reference manuals for sciences, languages, etc., besides the general sources, such as the Readers Guide.

Dr. Beatty believes it is extremely important that the students have a
working knowledge of the library, and she spends much of her time showing
students where to find particular source material.

As assistant director of the library for the past year, Dr. Beatty has also
been involved in expanding the library’s resources.

She is working to add to the library’s collection those books which
she feels will most complement the current curriculum.

Also, Davidson has now coordinated its resources with those of the
libraries at Duke, Chapel Hill, and North Carolina State at Raleigh, thus
making available sources which Davidson could not otherwise have easy
access to.

In her spare time, Dr. Beatty enjoys reading and gardening, but
most of her time is spent in job-related work. She is particularly interested
in the field of bibliographic control, which explains how knowledge is
organized within a particular field.

The reason for her dedication can perhaps be explained by her deep
commitment to the idea that every student should be able to maximize
his research efforts while at Davidson.

Also, her job allows her to maintain the academic side of her career while
maintaining a type of non-academic contact with the students which
cannot be found as easily in a student-teacher relationship.

It’s hard going

By ROBERT BOWIE
Staff Writer

Grades.
Grades. Grades. Grades.
GradesGradesgradesgradesgrades.
What does the 1979 crop of freshmen think about the workload at Davidson?

Even in the cold of winter weather, any freshman is bound to get heated
up over a discussion of grades.

Not everyone agrees, as a random and totally unscientific sample of
opinion revealed.

“Too much,” “enough to kill you” and “incredible” were typical labels
given to the difficulty of the courses at Davidson.

One astute student, when asked how hard his courses were, refused on
the grounds that “I’ve been working so hard my mind isn’t functioning
properly anymore...”

In addition to such generalities, many students had specific complaints
about Davidson College.

“Too many papers due at the end of the quarter,” remarked one
student.

Others questioned the real educational value of a high workload.

“They try to condense too much material into such a short period of
time that you can’t absorb the fundamentals of the subject,” they
said.

Of course, there is a minority view on everything. One freshman claimed
that there was not enough work to do at Davidson. “They ought to assign
more between Thanksgiving and the Christmas break.”

It is to be pointed out that this speaker kept his fingers crossed
throughout his entire statement.

One final statement seemed to make clear the

most students

have practically been forced to leave

only
