The Davidsonian

JASJIT BHATTAL represented Davidson in the national collegiate squash championships over spring break at the Naval Academy.

Bhattal competes in NCAA tourney

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

On his own initiative, international student Jasjit Bhattal recently participated in the NCAA Squash Tournament held at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Jasjit, otherwise known as ‘Jesse,’ was the sole representative from Davidson and was among some other forty-five college representatives. Jesse succeeded in making it to the softball tournament quarterfinals, and it was during this optional tournament that he was eliminated.

“Even that was unexpected,” commented Bhattal, “since I haven’t played squash for about nine months.” He attributes his success to his deceptive method of playing, as opposed to the emphasis on power and speed in British and American squash.

“For five days before the tournament I played at the Wilmington (Delaware) Country Club, trying to become fit. My feet were covered with blisters, but I played three matches a day, each match one-and-a-half hours long.”

Jesse played a lot of squash in India, where he was among the top three university squash players in the country. He has also been the number one player on a Charlotte squash team. Although his “true love” is field hockey, Jesse has concentrated on his squash game for the last several years. He related that often in India he would play only squash for three months at a time, attending no classes. Then for the next two months he would become a “monk” studying for ten to twelve hours a day.

“It really worked for me,” said Bhattal, “and I always did well on my exams.”

Jesse has always been a keen sportsman, beginning at the age of six. “Both my grandfather and my uncle were Olympians, so I was pushed into sports early.” Does he have any regrets? On the contrary: “If I never played any sports I wouldn’t be able to do well academically. I think if you are physically self-confident, then you will be mentally self-confident also. The two, academics and athletics, go together.”

The turban? It’s part of the Sikh tradition, a caste-less religious sect. “Even though we are a minority in India, most athletes are Sikhs.”

Jesse attended St. Stevens, a small, private, Christian school “in the hills” of India. At Davidson he is concentrating on politics and economics where he has found many “fine” professors. He is hoping to go into diplomacy once out of school.

Off Again needs beating

It has been a near disastrous week for the dynamic duo of Bad Bernard and Hogman. To start things off, it was rumored that the wise and ancient sage, Hogman, was used and abused by the Wake of some upset-minded Deacons, and then to top it off, Bernie was mutilated by a tribe of Northern Orangemen. Nevertheless, after doing some mighty serious explaining to our road partners, we have patched up our wounds and continue to dwelleth in the land of Davidsonius.

This past week as the sun beamed down on the wombats of D.C. and temperatures soared, Bad Bernard wandered out onto the cross country course in pursuit of some strange plant and Hogman went...

Sports Happenings
Friday, March 18, 1977
Saturday, March 19, 19771 pm 1 pm 1 pm 1 pm Monday, March 21, 1977 3 pm 2 pm 3 pm Tuesday, March 22, 1977 2 pm Thursday, March 24, 1977 2 pm March 24-26, 1977 Golf at Furman Invitational Qualifying Baseball with Furman at Davidson (2) Sailing with N.C. State at Raleigh Men's Tennis with Dartmouth at Davidson Track with Lynchburg at Davidson Baseball with Maryland at Davidson Men’s Tennis with Pfeiffer at Davidson Baseball with Maryland at Davidson Women’s Tennis with Wake Forest at W-S, N.C. Track with High Point and Wake Forest at High Point Men's Tennis with Ohio Univ. at Davidson 2 pm Women’s Tennis with Furman at Greenville, S.C. Golf at Furman Invitational at Greenville, S.C.

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE Available in Charlotte starting April 12, 1977. 7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O. Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253

Along to graze in the pastures. It was while we were out there that we noticed some strange happenings. The young men that label themselves Off Again were performing some unnatural acts with Charlie’s Angels. After the last pitch was tossed, the last top popped, and the dust had cleared it was declared that the young men of Off Again had canceled the Angels, 19-9. It looks as if these young men will be the team to beat.

Over on the golf course, Jungle Queen was enjoying the pleasures of Ed’s Massage Parlor by laying fourteen big ones on the masseurs. Tom Bernhardt powered the Queenies and John Swanson caught a couple of fly balls to send the upstart freshmen back down to Auten’s Health Club on 21.

In other spring rites, Presto’s Gill fried the Red Sux while Henderson House was melting the M&M’s in a game of coed kickball. The SAE’s were aroused this week as their Ragmen were pledged by the SPE’s in one of the early games of the season. No one on either team played nearly well enough to deserve mention by Bad Bernie and Hogman.

We are new at this job and not too sure of all the teams’ names and players yet, but we have some scores from this past week anyway. Down on field one yesterday it was 5-3, the skins taking that game in a close one; field two, 6-2, shirts; and finally, on field three when Bad Bernie left one team was ahead by about two runs.

Although the majority of softball teams continue to remain in obscurity, one fearless clan that dwelleth in a veritable hole known as the Subterranean Palace has made their presence known. These noble inhabitants of basementius Cannonius bear the name Cannonballs and whether they can beat Off Again will not be known for some time, but let us give all concerned teams some advance warning. The Cannonballs are led by a big red-haired pitcher known as Bebonk and their offensive strength comes from a kid named Max who is said to swing one of the biggest bats on campus. Orlando Rolando and George NoLay are the coaches and seem to be the team’s only weakness.

Thurs.-Fri. Campus Clothes: Comfortable Come browse Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard John Mack & Son Only Six Miles North — Mooresville