April 1, 1977 The Davidsonian 7

THE SYMBIANESE ALLIED EGGERS—These SAE’s held Will Terry, the Dean of Students, captive for three terrifying hours on March 20. Terry called his detainment “a horrible experience. They never took their eggs away from my head for the whole three hours.”

Vandals could cause Union closure

To the Editor:

Basically, we have a problem. It’s hard to determine exactly where our problem lies, however. We (and by ‘“we” I don’t mean the Union Board or any subdivision of the student body; I mean the Student Body itself) are faced with some rather frightening proposals, and it seems that a majority of us not only are not aware of the proposals themselves, but we are also unaware of the situation which has led to them.

I suppose it all started with the Garden of Eden and all that other stuff, but not being a history or sociology student, I don’t believe I’ll try to trace our problem back that far. Our problem manifests itself by people venting their frustrations/anxieties/hostilities/etc. on our bathroom wall, by dancing nude in the 900 Room, by stealing two telephones from the Dial-Alumni effort, and by creating havoc in general. All this really has happened, people; I’m not just making up this stuff to create an effect. I’m worried.

The suggestion has been made to forbid the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the concert Saturday. To tell you the truth, I’m not at all in favor of this one. Aside from the fact that the Concert Committee has spent one hell of a lot of time setting this thing up for our enjoyment, I’d like to be able to sit out there and hear some good tunes, maybe toss a frisbee around, and have a cool one or two in the midday sun. That sounds to me like a really great time. I don’t want to sit out there and have to be continually watchful lest some joker get it into his head that the crowd might like to get a load of his show, because I would have to “show him the error of his ways.” That doesn’t strike me as the best way to spend my Saturday afternoon. Like I say, I’m worried.

Now that’s bad, but worse things have been brought up as possible solutions in many hot and heavy meetings around the Union. Now this next is still rumor, but it’s educated rumor; I hang around here a lot. We may end up closing the Union. You know, as I type this, I get the feeling that some of you out there do not realize the depths of despair to which this suggestion drives me. I don’t know about you, but I like to be able to come over here.

Letters to the Editor

Be Eggers terrorize Terry; charity funds extorted

To the Editor:

Last Friday night one of the most bizarre events in the annals of Davidson College history took place. At approximately 8:30 pm, fifteen white-robed members of the Symbianese Allied Eggers (SAE) kidnapped Will Terry, the Dean of Students, and held him hostage at egg-point for two terror-filled hours. After sympathetic faculty members paid a ransom estimated at $60, Terry was released unharmed.

The terrorists, covered by masks and sunglasses, burst into Terry’s house on Concord Road. Waving small, white oval objects which strongly resembled Grade A eggs, the pseudo-army

KAS sponsor benefit disco

To the Editor:

This letter is to inform the student body that on Thursday, April 7, from 10 pm to 1 am, the KA House is sponsoring a disco as a fundraising project for muscular dystrophy. There will be a large quantity of free beer, music to dance by, and space available for those who just wish to socialize, play cards, backgammon, watch TV, etc. The only stipulation we are placing on this event is a 50 cent admission charge which will be collected at the door and which will go entirely to the Muscular Dystrophy Foundation. (Nothing collected at the door will be used to finance the party furnishings.) We encourage all students to come down, enjoy the party and contribute to a very worthy cause. Please mark this date on your calendar. Hope to see you next Thursday.

The Social Services Committee
Kappa Alpha Fraternity
Davidson CollegeQuickly bound and gagged, Terry was carried out to a waiting car. Watch some TV maybe, sit around and talk maybe, or maybe even grab a beer. This place is very literally made to be enjoyed (that’s used, not abused). I hope somebody cares as much as I do about keeping it open. I know there are people that work with the Union all the time who care. Shaw Smith doesn’t want to close the Union, but he’s ready to move to do so if it is deemed necessary. I’ll come back to the “deemed necessary.”

As I see it now, there isn’t anybody who has a job to do here that wants to see the place shut down; there are many who don’t have jobs here that feel the same way. These are the people that we need to help us. Unfortunately, there are also those who apparently couldn’t give a damn about this place except to come over and get drunk and rowdy in the bar. Damn it, the 900 Room is not a bar! Yes, we do serve beer and wine. No, this is not the only criterion for bardom. We, in this case I do mean the Union, are trying, and have always tried, to cultivate an atmosphere of quiet camaraderie and intimate entertainment in the 900 Room. Well, it looks like this idea is going down the tubes, and if we can’t stop that, we can keep the place from becoming a roadside tavern. We'll bloody well shut the whole thing down.

You see, it’s not the Union’s fault that our bathroom is torn up, that we have to put up with drunks, that we have to be abused. In most cases, it’s not your fault either. But we, and you, have to deal with it in some way. And it’s the alternatives that scare me. What can we do? What can we do about strolling (as opposed to streaking)? What can we do about people tearing up our walls? What can we do about the stealing? What can we do about people climbing into our elevator and jamming it as well as themselves between floors for hours at a time? I’m worried. I’m worse than worried; I’m scared.

We need help, and it’s no good if it comes from Shaw or Will or anybody on the faculty or staff. We don’t know who is tearing this place apart, and we don’t have any avenues left to explore. Help has to come from students who care about this place and what it means. It has to come from those of us who want to have a good time and who know how not to make fools of themselves. But we need it soon; Spring Frolics starts tomorrow. After that, I don’t know what will happen, but I get the feeling I won't like it.

Mark Tyndall ’79
Davidson College

Chambers bell no longer rings

To the Editor:

As Davidson begins to acquire the superficial trappings of a modern educational institution, let us not forget one of its oldest traditions: the ringing of a bell to call students to classes. Since last fall we have been bereft of the tolling of the Chambers Bell. Would The Davidsonian consider an article about this loss, and the Bell’s hopeful return? Who knows what has happened to the Bell; the Maids atop Chambers aren’t saying much about it. Let’s not allow this tradition to die!

John Parkerson ‘79
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.