wulvost 4, 1908 SHEIK ARRIVES as ATO weirds out. [Ron Chappell] HOCUS: ~~. 3

What do you do when you don’t know what to do?

By CATHERINE LANDIS

Editor

Leslie Jacobs graduated from Davidson College last May with a BA in English. “Now,” she says, “I’m sitting around drinking beer.” This summer she worked as a secretary for her father, a doctor, and tried to find a more challenging job. But Ms. Jacobs did not come to Davidson to learn how to be a secretary. “But I don’t think my education at Davidson was a waste,” she said. “It was wasted, but not a waste.”

Leslie is one of many in the ’77 graduating class whose degree is not, as they had thought, the ticket to a career, but merely a slip of paper. And as the Class of 1978 begins its last year in Carolina’s colleges, some of last year’s graduates are still looking for work. These are the students who failed to get into graduate school, who could not find work in a tight labor market, who did not seek out all the opportunities in their fields. Mostly, these are the students who came out of college still confused about what to do with their future.

It’s unclear exactly how many 1977 Carolina’s college graduates have...

Trustees arrive ready to face issues

The Trustees of Davidson College have arrived on campus and will be discussing several important matters in various committees before the entire Board meets on Friday.

The Executive Committee is to hear faculty representatives present an amendment to Paragraph 5, Article IV of the Trustee By-Laws. Efforts to amend that paragraph began last spring after the “Christian Tenure Controversy.”

Information on the renovation of Martin Science Building and overall campus development will be presented to the Building and Grounds Committee. That committee may also initiate efforts to obtain architectural and land-use planning services leading to site location and working drawings of a Central Food Service Building and future housing.

The Student Life and Health Committee begins its work with an in-depth discussion of plans for the Dining Commons and a review of the status of medical care at the college. The Media Board will then present for approval its recently-drafted Standards for Publication, and the Committee will vote on an SGA recommendation to place the Patterson Court Council President and the College Union President on the Council on Campus and Religious Life.

The Honorary Degrees...

Fellows ponders change

By PEG TRAVIS

Staff Writer

The Advisory Board of North Carolina Fellows (NCF) is now considering a proposal which will open the program to upperclassmen. The Board met during the summer to discuss the proposed plan. “We couldn't resolve the question at that time,” stated Professor John Kello, director of the program. “This is something that we need to approach slowly.

“We came to the conclusion that we definitely need to include upperclassmen, but we also need to discuss it with everyone involved.” Kello emphasized the importance of including the Fellows in the decision. “We don't want to...throw a new system at them and say ‘this is how it’s going to be.’ We need to have their approval.

(SF laga ft c Shop aLld. Your Gift Headquarters “Gifts for all ages and all occasions” | Hours: 10—5:30 pm | Monday—Saturday Plaza Shopping Center Mooresville 663-1503

“The Fellows know what the Advisory Board is doing here at every step along the way. We need to be very careful because it does represent something of a change in policy.”

Although still indefinite, the proposal calls for upperclassmen to replace inactive Fellows who voluntarily separate themselves from the program. It has not yet been determined how the selection process will operate.

“There are still some logistical problems to be worked out with taking on new members,” Kello stated.

Kello intends to meet with the NCF trustees and at least one of the other three campus directors in the next few weeks to discuss the process. He will then meet with the Advisory Board who will finalize the proposal which will then be discussed among the Fellows and hopefully approved.

“We’re trying to refine our statements so that we can get down to a workable proposal,” he concluded.

the WORLD FAMOUS Good G Sittecatand! Guuse PIZZA: LASAGNE • RAVIOLI VEAL SCALLOPINE CHICKEN CACCIATORE VEAL PARMIGIANA other dishes 315-1449 1318 W. MOREHEAD HWY 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY

The Committee will review the list of candidates recommended for Honorary Degrees, the Finance and Management Committee will hear the 1976-77 Financial Report and deal with other matters pertaining to funds and investments, and the Athletics and Physical Education Committee plans to discuss the Intercollegiate Program.

The Plenary Session (full Board Meeting) begins at 10 am Friday and (after a lunch break) runs into the afternoon hours.

tone 57 the same problem as Leslie Jacobs. The U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) says the latest statistics it has about unemployed new college graduates are for the 1975 class. HEW reports 922,933 degrees granted in 1974-75 in all 50 states. North Carolina colleges and universities granted 23,406; South Carolina, 10,796.

A 1975 study by Art Padilla at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC-CH) reports on employment and job satisfaction for 1974 graduates. More current studies have not been conducted to compare 1977’s graduates with those of 1974.

The 1976 survey found nearly 80 percent of the spring 1974 graduates were “gainfully employed in the labor market” 1½ years after graduation. This is eight out of every ten students. Fourteen percent of the class were continuing formal schooling. The remainder were involved in some other activity.

N.C. college administrators are concerned about the lack of up-to-date statistics about their graduates. Representatives from most colleges and universities in N.C., including [See CONFUSED, page 11]

Comfortable Campus Clothes and browse Use Your Master Charge, Bankamericard or Use Your Automatic Charge Account at [John Mack & Son] Only 6 miles North - Mooresville