Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Stuart Directors distribute awards
By PHILIP DUNCAN, News Editor

Murray B. Craven III of Charlotte and David Howard Waddill of Winston-Salem have been selected to receive the two $3000
Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarships for 1977-78. Eight others have been awarded $500 scholarships—Esther L. Bruce, Salisbury, N.C.; John M. Butler,
Lumberton, N.C.; Julia L. Eichelberger, Asheville, N.C.; Karen S. Fischler, Morehead City, N.C.; Renee L. Hedgepeth, Jacksonville, Fla.; Linda L.
Hoopes, Clearwater, Fla.; Diana P. Pierce, Gainesville, Fla.; Mark C. Thomas, Tarpon Springs, Fla.

The awarding of the scholarships, announced Wednesday by the Directors of the Stuart Scholarship Program, culminated a series of area,
district, and final nominations and interviews. Craven and Waddill have accepted their scholarships and will enter Davidson’s freshman class next
September. Each of the eight others has until May 1 to indicate whether he/she will accept the $500 or forfeit
it and attend another college. The initial scholarship grants are renewable for a total of four years of study at
Davidson.

Seddon Goode, Jr., Chairman of the Scholarship Fund’s Board of Directors, indicated that this year’s experience in administering the scholarship
program would likely bring changes for next year. “We hope we can increase the number of big scholarships and amount
of those awards into the $4000 range.” Goode said that the program probably could not expand into the entire Southeast
next year, but he hopes that at least three more states can be added to North Carolina and Florida. “I
also hope we can make a profile on the semi-finalists so those nominating will know the calibre of the people
we are competing for.”

Two Stuart finalists received scholarships but decided not to participate in the final interviews. One accepted a substantial grant from
Vanderbilt University, the other took a Morehead Scholarship from the University of North Carolina. “We hoped we would lose some,
to make sure we were in the right well of water,” said Goode. “We had other Morehead finalists in our
competition, but they didn’t make it to the final twelve.” Others participating in the Stuart Program were competing for scholarships
from Duke, Wake Forest, and other universities.

Goode reemphasized that “Christian character is the cornerstone of this program.” He explained that outstanding students of the Jewish faith
and other students could compete for conventional scholarships offered by the college.

---

March 25, 1977
By PHILIP DUNCAN, News Editor

The remaining positions on the Student Media Board were filled this week with the selection of three new members. Director
of News and Photography Earl Lawrimore, Admissions Counselor Leonard Satterwhite, and sophomore Tom Besselieu were chosen to round out the
nine-member board. These three were selected by the six previously elected members of the Media Board—Dean of Students Will Terry,
Business Manager Robert A. Currie, Jr., German Professor Julius S. Winkler, senior Matthew Covington, junior Bert Downs, and sophomore Greg
Hankins.

Covington said that the Media Board would elect a chairman at its next meeting on April 3. “By that time
we expect to have garnered literature from other schools who have similar boards and will begin work on a code
of responsible journalism,” he said. Some members of the board have indicated their uncertainty of the board’s specific role in
overseeing media activities and in approving and reviewing monetary expenditures and budgets of the various media. Covington indicated that the
board would be working in its early meetings to clarify these points.

---

New administrator named: Zimmermann arrives in July
By CATHERINE LANDIS, Editor

T.C. Price Zimmermann, history professor at Reed College in Portland, Oregon, has been selected as Vice President for Academic Affairs
at Davidson College, effective in July. Zimmermann, 43, has taught at Reed since '64. He has been chairman of Reed
Committees on master plan and long-range planning.budget, administration, and educational policy. He is also chairman of the history department. A
summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate from Williams College and a John E. Moody Memorial Scholar at Oxford University,
Zim-

Spencer explains budget
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Davidson College has no specific priority system to determine major expenditures, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. Instead,
the scale of a project determines whether it will be initiated or not. “You don’t wait on a $2000 or
$5000 need until you fill a million-dollar need—for obvious reasons—if you can fulfill the smaller need,” he said. “I think
you put major capital priorities into groupings,” said Spencer. “Coming out of our goals committee and as a part of
our case-study, there are several capital projects that are so desirable to somebody in the college we would like to
do them right away."

Spencer listed these projects as the renovation of Martin Chemistry Building, new dining facilities, a new art building for visual
arts, music and drama, and recreational facilities—athletic fields, a field house for intramurals, and a golf course. “Housing goes into
a separate category for this reason,” he said, “we hope to be able when we build a dorm to build
one to be an income-producing project.” Spencer hopes to borrow money for the building and to repay the loan through
student room rental. Renovation of the College Infirmary is not included in the top priority list because, “I’ve been assuming
it would not be a major outlay although it would perhaps be substantial,” he said. “I really don’t [see ESTABLISHED,
page 8]

Zimmerman received his graduate education at Harvard University and the University of Florence. His Postgraduate Fellowships include Reed College Humanities
Institute, Senior Research Fellow; Villa I Tatti, Harvard Center for Italian Renaissance Studies; and the American Council of Learned Societies
Fellowship. Dr. Spencer is pleased with the appointment. He comments, “Price Zimmerman combines to an unusual degree high competence and
deep commitment. His credentials are impeccable and his record most impressive.”

Zimmerman has written for numerous scholarly publications, primarily on Paolo Giorio, a prominent 16th-century Italian historian. He is an internationally
recognized authority on Giorio and was one of a few American scholars asked to contribute to the recent Dictionary of
Italian Biography published in Italy. He plans to contribute his expertise to the history department at Davidson. As the Dean
at Reed College says, “I don’t know any faculty member who has better relations with students. He has cordial, friendly
relationships with a wide range of students.” A former colleague adds, “I have read a number of Professor Zimmerman’s articles
and they are of the highest quality. His academic standards are the highest. Professor Zimmerman has a ruthless eye for
hypocrisy and superficiality. This is coupled with a gift for subtle humor.”

The colleague goes on to say, “He has a genuine ability to laugh at himself. Although reserved in demeanor, he
enjoys people and moves easily in a wide range of humanistic fields and has the good sense to listen to
others in areas outside his competence. He is a person of unquestioned integrity and moral probity.” A professional associate comments,
“his deep insight, sense of proportion, astute handling of persons and situations and his unflappable nature served the humanists’ cause
generously and unfailingly. Not the least has been his keen appreciation of financial matters.”

“I need hardly dwell on Price Zimmermann’s international outlook. He has a great appreciation of locale and the local scene
without being parochial. Nor would he have problems with any part of your community whether potential donors, community leaders, demanding
deans and department heads or sportsmen.” He adds, “As you must recognize, we do not want to lose Price Zimmerman,
but we [see COLLEGE, page 3]
