April 1, 1977

The Davidsonian

IMAC Report.
“Juicy tidbits” emerge despite rain

By BAD BERNARD
and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

This has been a most trying week for the courageous combo of Bad Bernard and Hogman. The four-legged wonder has been in Hotlanta covering the streetball tourney, and unfortunately only one of those teams resembled a b-ball team and they lost in the finals. (Maybe next year Hilton!)

Bernie is up in Washington at the McDonald’s High School All-American Classic and has sent in the following message: “There be some bad mothers up here, and one dude badder than my little brother, he be wontin’ to come to Davidson next year.” Thank you, Bernie.

Rain and unavailability of scores have continued to plague our sports coverage, but nevertheless here are some juicy tidbits. Jungle Queen boogied past Rock and Roll Sunoco, 16-4. The gas station boys are going to have to do more rocking on the softball diamonds and less rolling back in the dorms if they want to win.

Baby Rick’s Bar and Grill intoxicated the frosh from 4th Richardson, 11-6, in a game that was less exciting than the score implies. The Longest Yard came up short, about ten runs, in a thrilling game with the Gozinyas, the score in that one being 13-3.

The F-one, J-one’s plugged Wood’s Hole (no relation to Al) in a tight game, 7-6. If Graeme Thomson ever learns how to pitch, the Fijis might win by more.

Bum Cleavers shaved the Little Furry Animals 9-7, Nag’s Nymphs satisfied 3rd Little as the little women won 13-3, and the Flying Phalli landed on the SAE’s 15-9. Willy McGilly is going to have to quit dreaming about Betty and start worrying about softball if the boys from the beach are going to make our top ten.

Now, after reading all this BS, here is what you have been waiting for—the first Bad Bernie-Hogman Terrific Ten (with apologies to Brian Gumball and Lee Lizard’s fabulous fifteen).

Through a logical analysis of each team’s pitching strength and a correlation of each batter’s average, we have found their power indexes. Here they are:

1. Off Again .987
2. Presto’s Grill .981
3. Flaming A's .974
4. Your Face .962
5. KA .956
6. Baby Rick’s Bar & Grille .944
7. Gozinyas .930
8. Brewers .927
9. Cannonballs .925
10. SPE #1 .899

Others receiving consideration: Rock and Roll Sunoco (if they ever all show up).

The Bad Bernard-Hogman Benefit Basketball game is shaping up for the night of April 12th. You’ve got a week left to cast your vote for the four additional IMAC all-stars. That address again is: Hogman, Box 1755, Davidson. Later.

Athlete of the Week
Brown combines track and tennis, succeeding in both

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

Nancy Brown competed in the track meet here at Davidson last Sunday. She won the 880 meters, the mile, and was a vital member of the mile relay. Had it not been Sunday she would have had to replace her track shoes with tennis shoes, and compete in a tennis match. But it was Sunday, a day of rest, and so Brown rested on her track ribbons.

Brown is from Lake Forest, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago, and has been an athlete for most of her life. She began playing tennis in eighth grade “when everyone else began playing tennis,” and attended group lessons and summer tennis camp. She was also a competitive member of the Chicago Area Excellence program, which was a small group of select young tennis players who competed among themselves. During her junior and senior years in high school she was captain of her team, and attended the state tournament both years.

Brown also ran track in high school and was captain of that team. At that time, girls’ varsity sports were new to her high school, so the battle for establishing girls’ sports made her close to her teammates. Brown has always enjoyed the competitive side of running, and the “strategy of a long race,” but she also sees it as a release.

“The angrier you get the harder you run, whereas tennis is very frustrating, and you have to concentrate or you blow the shot.”

Brown has concentrated on tennis largely because her twin sister, Carol, has taken up golf...and Nancy wants to be different.

She is evidently one of several athletes in the family. Both of her parents are avid tennis players. (“My mother and I play doubles in club tournaments during the summer.”)

Her twin plays golf, and another sister won a bronze medal during the 1976 Olympics. “I think if you can be well-disciplined in sports, you can be well-disciplined in studies...but I don’t know how well-disciplined I am.”

Brown is an art major, and is seriously considering becoming one of the few medical illustrators in the United States. However, this field proved somewhat disappointing during her Spring break internship, and it also requires several years of graduate school. Brown says that she has always wanted to coach, but is not sure of making that a career. Who knows what may happen?

“What I'd really like to do is just do something I really like for the next five years—then go to work.”

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE

Available in Charlotte starting April 12, 1977. 7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O. Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS