February 4, 1977
The Davidsonian

Eating Houses
By DAVE SCHMIDT
Staff Writer

With self-selection rapidly approaching, many freshpeople will be making a decision that will affect their eating and social habits for
the next three years. The following is by no means intended to be a guide to the houses on Patterson
Court. It is simply an expression by members of each of the houses about the type of image their respective
houses possess. The statement preceding the quotes is my impression of each house that I have gathered from listening to
people talk about other houses. It’s amazing how some of these differ from what people in the houses think.

ATO: Franz Fanon said it best: “The Wretched of the Earth” (M. F. Leopold), “A mixture of secular and religious.
As far as the culinary aspect is concerned, the food is great, we have a beer machine, and we cater
to our health-food fanatics. Altruism through overindulgence.” (Jack Golden and Bruce Hoster), “Our house is a puppet regime of the
CIA, and we have as our duty to propagate the teachings of George Bush. We are also dedicated to the
sellout of the Third World to the Multinational Corporations.”

PAX: Any house that has daiquiri parties can’t be all bad. (Mary Hay), “PAX has a pretty comfortable atmosphere due
to the diverse personalities and large number of personalities. I feel that just about anyone could fit in.” (Sykes McCord),
“PAX has as many varied personalities as any house on campus, but I think there is a tendency to be
more academically oriented than socially.”

SAE: Khakis, Topsiders, sand, and the Beach Boys. (Stuart Sanders), “A variegated group of guys who are bound together by
an active social life and a strong national fraternity brotherhood. Only twelve people in the house own khakis.” (Mark Melendy),
“A highly active and concerned group of people with great participation in community service projects, and a great desire for
fraternal brotherhood.”

F & M: Predominantly Fiji, with a propensity to party. (Mary Amos), “Despite the large number of people at our
house, I believe we are closer as a group than most of the other eating houses. Our active social life
may be one reason for this, but it is not the only one.” (Holt Foushee), “F & M is the
only house on the court that combines a strong national fraternity (Fiji) along with a large number of coeds. It
is definitely the most social oriented of the coed houses.”

Phi Delta Theta: The Phi Delt Four, football players, and BEER. (Bob Hayman), “There are a lot of popular misconceptions
about the Phi Delt house that need to be changed. Many people seem to think our house consists of nothing
but a bunch of football players who do nothing but get high, get drunk, and raise hell together. Well, that’s
not true: not everyone’s a football player.” (Frank Cebul), “Our house consists of a diverse group of guys organized around
an active social life and participation in sports. There has been a strengthening of the fraternal brotherhood in the past
few years.”

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
In just 3 seconds a cigarette makes your heart beat faster, shoots your blood pressure up, replaces oxygen in your
blood with carbon.monoxide, and leaves cancer-causing chemicals to spread through your body. All this happens with every cigarette you smoke.
As the cigarettes add up, the damage adds up. Because it’s the cumulative effects of smoking—adding this cigarette to all
the cigarettes you ever smoked—that causes the trouble. And tell that to your dog, too.

ELPARE

The Rosco Inn

Does this place really exist? Stronghold of the SPE’s. (B. A. Summerell), “The fraternity members eating at our house add
a dimension to our house character that many of the eating houses lack. People down here feel that ETC is
more than just an eating house; it is their house.” (Chuck Jones), “I think that the personality of the house
is more low-key than those of many houses on the court. The food is better than at many of the
houses, and I appreciate the fact that people don’t throw food.”

KA: Grits, fried chicken, and Robert E. Lee. (Bill Pitman), “We don’t feel that the KA’s have a stereotype, and
because of this we attract a very open and diverse membership. During the past year we've been strengthening our house
ties with the national fraternity.” (Dave Thomas), “I believe the KA’s present the most diverse group of guys in any
of the national fraternities. We don’t conform to any stereotype because of this diversity. We are united by athletics, an
active social life, and the fraternal bond.”

Emanon: Stronghold of WAD and the ERA. (Debbie Davis), “I feel that having a large number of girls makes for
a more relaxed atmosphere. We have two cooks who are not afraid to experiment, and a big plus is our
hot breakfast. While we have the usual open band parties, our social activities are centered in the house.” (Al Edmonds),
“Emanon has a diverse spectrum ranging from both AC to DC, giving its members the option of joining one group
and laughing at the other. This allows us to be the only house on the court to compete with both
the library rats and the FUBAR Club.”

PIKA: Isn’t that some kind of fish? (Toy Fountain), “While there is a diversity to our group, we are willing
to tolerate each other's idiosyncrasies. The menu plan is adjusted to accommodate both the males and females in our house.
There has been a movement back to the ties with the national fraternity, but I hope that this will not
sway girls away from our house.” (John Ratliff), “While our house is a fraternity, the thing I like best about
it is that you can eat down there with no pressure to join the fraternity.”

On Wednesday, February 9th the 900 Room will open from 12:30 to 1:15 pm with a salad bar, yogurt bar,
and drinks for one dollar. Those with one o’clock classes should feel free to leave after a good meal in
good company. Others are welcome to come and stay to hear Lorraine Page of Planned Parenthood present a program on
“Feminism and Women’s Health.” By the way, men, faculty, and administration are welcome—we all

ETCETERA
121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

JEANS FOR GUYS AND GALS
10% OFF ON ALL WRANGLER JEANS AND SHIRTS
Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10:00-5:30
Closed Wednesdays
