March 11, 1977 The Davidsonian

“It’s a good night for singing”
By ROBBIE HUTCHINSON
Staff Writer

Enough of the likes of Tony Bennett, John Denver, The Lettermen, Mother’s Finest, Kiss, and the Mike Greene Jazz Band. Real music is returning to Mecklenburg County. Willie Nelson, Jerry Jeff Walker, and Steve Young will be in concert on March 13 at the Charlotte Coliseum.

Willie and Jerry Jeff hail from Texas and, until recently, have performed in relative obscurity. As one writer puts it, they’d “been waiting in the wings for years...to assume their proper places in the structure of American music when it became apparent to them that their proper places were perhaps being unduly delayed because of certain resentments harbored against them because of their real and imagined unconventionality.” They were unconventional, but after taking matters into their own hands, they won acceptance in Nashville and are currently winning rapid nationwide acceptance.

Review
Concert sounds new
By DIOGENES THE DOG
Staff Writer

Happy the Man’s performance in Love Auditorium on February 12 treated Davidson to a kind of music heard all too seldom: “progressive” rock, which usually emphasized musical value above virtuosity and self-indulgence. Happy the Man consists of eight sound, lighting, and business specialists plus five classically trained musicians. Stanley Whitaker plays guitar; Kit Watkins keyboards, flute, and recorders; Frank Wyatt keyboards and reeds; Rick Kennell basses; and Mike Beck an astonishing array of percussion devices in a nine-by-nine foot cage. Whitaker and Wyatt also sing occasionally. All hail from Virginia, and all held full-time jobs, practicing at night, until less than a year ago. At that time, British producer Ken Scott (who has produced the Beatles, David Bowie, and Supertramp, among others) was impressed enough by a demo tape he heard in the Arista Records offices to bring Happy the Man to California to produce their first album, due for release this month.

The concert in Love set a variety of moods aided by both music and lighting. The show opened slowly and hypnotically, roving from that point to the bouncy and whimsical and many moods in between. The musicians were all excellent, but two deserve special note. Stanley Whitaker had some dazzling moments on guitar, but generally knew when to hold back for the good of the music. HAPPY THE MAN progressively rocks on.

Jerry Jeff’s image is that of an old drunk shuffling through life on the pittance he pulls in from one-night stands. He sings some flippant songs—“Up Against the Wall Redneck” and “Sangria Wine” for instance—that make the listener feel good inside. Their brand of music lies somewhere between country and folk, but other lyrics, as in “Desperadoes Waiting for a Train” and “That Old Beat Up Guitar,” reflect a depth and sensitivity not found in many popular singers.

Willie has been around for quite a while, singing for years to small audiences in honky-tonks across the country. He comes across as a relaxed redneck without a care in the world. Most of his songs, such as “If You’ve Got the Money Honey I’ve Got the Time” and “I Gotta Get Drunk,” are light, but they inspire belly laughs that draw the listener into the singer’s seemingly halcyon world. Although his lyrics generally lack the depth found with Jerry Jeff, his songs have a satisfying quality about them that TheThe amazing thing about Mike Beck was not that he played such a variety of percussive devices, but that he played them so tastefully. The percussion was probably the most outstanding individual contribution to the evocative quality and uniqueness of the concert. This is not to say that the show was perfect. There was a great reluctance to experiment tonally, perhaps because record companies are not amenable to new avant-garde rock bands. More rhythmic variety would also have been welcome, and the synthesizer all too often produced the overly familiar Chick Corea blat. The most serious weakness was that the band apparently has not yet learned to end a song properly. Every piece seemed to just stop with no sense of finality. There was also the occasional tendency, widespread among "progressive" groups, to succumb to the temptation to substitute cheap flashy licks for tight melodic and rhythmic structure, but Happy the Man avoided this tendency much more than do tackier and more successful "progressive" bands such as Emerson, Lake and Palmer. These weaknesses did not ruin the concert; they only succeeded in making a potentially great show merely good. With time to develop greater musical maturity and freedom to follow their own aesthetics without fear of contract cancellation, the members of Happy the Man could make a significant contribution to the development of rock music.

Between "hard country" artists like Merle Haggard and Ernest Tubb and the "tinny" performers like Glen Campbell and John Denver, for lack of a better term, call it "progressive country." Their subject matter isn’t divorce and alcoholism and life’s miseries, and neither is it Rocky Mountain highs and the dirty sidewalks of Broadway. They sing about the good things in life: love, drinking, and nostalgic reminiscences. After listening to their songs (which are always characterized by an underlying sense of satisfaction with their station in life), one becomes buoyant and refreshed. It’s almost escapism.

Have a roaring time
By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

There were several film comedies made in the late fifties and early sixties which portrayed the United States getting its comeuppance from tiny nations; perhaps reflecting the resentment from some quarters of the pompousness of the nation which had pushed the world into the Nuclear Age and was now engaged in Cold War bickering with the Soviet Union. Peter Ustinov’s Romanoff and Juliet (1961) was one of these films; Richard Lester’s The Mouse on the Moon (1963) was another. The latter was a sequel to the 1959 film The Mouse That Roared, perhaps the most famous of these movies, and this week’s Pop Films presentation.

The Mouse That Roared is based on Leonard Wibberley’s novel of the same name and is concerned with the Grand Duchy of Fenwick, the world’s smallest nation. Anxious for funds for improvements in the country, the Grand Duchy hits on a novel idea: taking note of the fact that nations defeated in war by the United States always get elaborate reconstruction funds, they declare war on the U.S., invading New York with twenty archers in chain mail. Only one thing goes wrong: they win the war.

The Mouse That Roared is scheduled for Friday night at 8 pm in Hodson Hall and 10:30 pm in Love.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
The MOUSE THAT ROARED
PETER SELLERS STARS in multiple roles in this comedy-farce
8:00 & 10:30 PM HODSON $1.00