April 29, 1977

OFF FROM DAVIDSON

Leslie Jacobs, Betty Parks, John Umhau, Bob Grizzard, Karl Schlotterbeck, and Sally Bondurant—saw away from college. Furthermore, time away from
Davidson often cleared up student career confusions. While some students feared returning, it was not very difficult for most when
they weighed the advantages of increased experience against the minor problems of reorientation. Most of the students knew what they
would do outside of school before they left it. The Office of Experiential Learning helped them with job arrangements, places
to stay, and connections.

John Umhau
John Umhau visited the Koinonia Communes of Americus, Georgia, during fall term 1975. The organization is a farm commune located
six miles from Plains, Georgia, and has long been instrumental in fighting racism in its area. Umhau worked in a
peanut factory. “I met whole segments of the American people I wouldn’t have otherwise; there is no way for me
here to meet farmers as another farmer.” He summarized how his perceptions of American society had changed. “Through the media
we've created in ourselves expectations for high lifestyles, high living, beautiful women, happiness all the time without any hard work.
I think we’ve degraded the joy we get out of a hard day’s work.”

Bob Grizzard
Bob Grizzard left spring term 1976 to work in a food processing factory in Jamaica. He recalls feeling like “a
fish in a bowl” when he first arrived because he was one white man among so many black faces. He
listed wanting time to himself and curiosity as the two major reasons for leaving Davidson in the first place. The
Office for Experiential Learning (then the Career-Service Office under Randy Kincaid’s direction) helped him set up the job and living
space in Jamaica. Grizzard commented, “I got a lot out of it, realizing how minute Davidson is. It makes it
easier to be content here—not complacent—but happy here, because you do realize it is a small place, and that it
has its limitations. By seeing its smallness you see its qualities; you can take it for what it is. It’s
when you ask Davidson to be something it’s not that it gets frustrating.”

Sally Bondurant
Sally Bondurant went JYA-England for a year and then extended her leave for two more terms to work as a
barmaid and play semi-professional sports. She said, “I learned a lot about myself and how to operate independently, but also
to get back to the places and people I'd been with in a much more objective way. I was very
confused as to what my own goals were as opposed to others’ expectations of me. I wanted to make sure
I was following my own purposes. It’s rather selfish I suppose, but I want other people to stop mucking us
over, preaching this unselfishness business: we’ve got to sort ourselves out before we have a firm basis to give anything
to anybody. And unfortunately, anything having to do with ourselves is labeled as selfish and seen negatively.”

Karl Schlotterbeck
This past winter term, Karl Schlotterbeck got three independent studies courses through the Honors College and a job through the
Office for Experiential Learning. He worked in Durham, N.C., in a service agency dealing with the problems of the aged.
This supplements his interdisciplinary major on aging. He came back on the weekends to confer with his professors. He lived
in the office building in which he worked and described his existence there as very quiet and tedious. “While I
was able to cope quite well with the demands of my life there, it’s real nice to be back. I
appreciate the chance to interact with people on all different levels. Out in the ‘Real World’ I felt I had
to establish myself with a person. There is more of a time period you have to spend to get comfortable
with them, to trust each other, to be intimate. It’s nice to have organized things to do, like plays, etc.”

Betty Parks
Betty Parks worked winter term 1975-76 in Philadelphia as a part of the Great Lakes College Association. Getting full credit
for her work, she spent four days a week in the Center for Preschool Services with developmentally delayed children, and
one day a week in seminars studying urban problems. She found she enjoyed being on her own. “Whatever got done
I did it. I found myself wanting to do much more. Here you’ve got a paper due Friday. There it
was more like I wanted it done by Friday. It was totally different not having all the external pressures. It
really made you grow up in a hurry...here at Davidson we are very sheltered.”

Leslie Jacobs
Leslie Jacobs also worked in Philadelphia through the GLAA with kids. She decided on a hospital setting, working with convalescent
children trying to make the hospitalization less traumatic. “A lot of the kids had parents who worked and couldn’t visit.
When a child can’t move around much, and he can’t see his own parents, he really needs something to keep
his mind occupied. Our task was to gain the child’s trust and give him something fun to do.” When asked
why she left Davidson, she said, “I was just sick and tired of it. There are other kinds of people
in the world, and sometimes artists, who like to dance, who are not sitting around reading, who may be into
a whole non-verbal type of communication. People like words here. That's one thing I got out of, being with the
children.”b around le who are into Some students find it hard or undesirable to adjust to the academics at Davidson.
Leslie Jacobs neatly summarized, “Academics meant little before I left and means less now.” Betty Parks said, “It was the
realization of how much more there is to learn besides what is in books.” “The importance of grades has dropped
for me,” said Sally Bondurant. “Not that I am less concerned with mastery of the content. I am simply less
success-oriented in the academic field than I had been.” On the other hand, Bob Grizzard didn’t find it hard to
orient himself to academics. “I knew more of what I had to do and I did it.” John Umhau found
that academics had become easier for him as he had gotten most of his premedical coursework out of the way
before leaving. Karl Schlotterbeck took three independent studies while working in Durham, N.C., and found less difficulty when he dropped
his job and returned to campus.

Vague plans crystallized
Most felt very strongly that leaving had helped them clear up vague career objectives. Betty Parks was torn between a
business career and her desire to work with children. Her experience in Philadelphia working with developmentally delayed children decided her
for business. John Umhau was a pre-med before he left. “I wanted to make sure that my education didn’t steer
me in one track. A lot of people go into med school without really thinking ‘Am I going to be
useful as a doctor? Do I need to boost my ego, or is it going to help other people?’ You
don’t admit that you do things for status.” Umhau is planning to attend Bowman Grey Medical School next year. Bob
Grizzard said, “I was thinking about pre-med, and decided to take some time off to make a strong commitment either
way—to that or to an English major.” Grizzard now has plans to teach English in a Charlotte high school beginning
next September. Leslie Jacobs found play therapy tremendously exciting in her work in Philadelphia. She had never heard of it
before leaving to look for a job.

What about social life?
Social readjustment to Davidson was easy for most, but difficult for some. Those who were away for only one term
found it reasonably easy to come back and feel comfortable. Jacobs said living off-campus made it easier to come back
because, “You aren’t packaged into the dorms that way.” Umhau said, “Fall term is the missing fall term last year
I’ve missed knowing a lot of freshmen.” Grizzard came back after a spring and a summer away to be a
hall counselor. “That really helped me reorient myself to campus life.” Parks and Schlotterbeck noted that relationships hadn't changed much.
Bondurant noted, “Even if you go through straight in four years the number of people you know and associate with
diminishes after freshman year. Freshman year is the critical year when you know all the upperclassmen and your own class;
thereafter it gets more and more difficult to meet underclassmen. As the upperclassmen graduate the number of active friendships you
have declines.”

Do it, they say
When asked whether they would make recommendations or give advice to students considering leaving, four of the six simply said,
“Do it!” and then said no one should attempt to stay at Davidson for four years straight. Jacobs and Bondurant
recommended their trips very highly, but felt it was not necessary for everyone to leave, particularly those who “are able
to maintain a strong sense of their selfhood already.” “I think a lot more people should drop out,” Bondurant said,
“If you drop out and return to Davidson, do not be egotistically fooled into the idea that you are the
only one who has changed and grown in the period. Because in spite of all the restricting forces in Davidson,
the same thing happens to those who stay behind as the ones who go. They just do it in a
different way, and they’ve done it here.”

Friends draw them back
Every person questioned said that one of the most important reasons he came back was because of friends. “I’m not
sure you can really make a correlation, a cause and effect, but for some reason Davidson has the unique ability
to attract exceptional people to it. I don’t know how, but I value the opportunity I have here for making
really honest relationships. The double edge to that is being able to stay above all the gossip and murk which
stays around the base of these honest relationships. A sense of perspective can prevent you from getting really too upset
over that—the murk just isn’t that important,” Bondurant commented. “The people are what Davidson is to me now, rather than
some name and the associations that come with that name,” Jacobs said. Other reasons were also listed for coming back:
parental guidance, pragmatism, wanting to finish what had already been begun, not wanting to go through the hassles of transferring
to another university.

Perspectives sum it up
What people gained most from the experience can be summed up in a single word: perspective. “I began a much
healthier, but detached, feeling toward Davidson,” Bondurant said. “I'd definitely get away from this place, just so you can get
your bearings on life. I am so high now,” Umhau commented. Jacobs summarized, “I don’t want to fit in what
Davidson is supposed to be about. And yet I feel most of the people here feel that way, too—they don't
want to fit in either. So what is it that people get to know one another, Davidson, this outside thing,
or what people are feeling?”
