_The Davidsonian_

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Can Davidson afford to maintain its present tenure policy which is based on religious requirements?

Fact 1: Bruce Kuklick, Professor of History at the University of Pennsylvania and Editor of The American Quarterly, withdrew his offer to speak at the American Studies Workshop scheduled to convene at Davidson in June. This workshop was organized through the college’s Honors Center for American Studies specialists both on the Davidson faculty and visiting from outside universities, said Robert L. Avinger, Jr., Associate Professor of Economics and Dean of the Center for Honors Studies. In his letter to Avinger, Kuklick explained that he felt compelled to withdraw his agreement to speak at the workshop because he finds Davidson’s current tenure policy ‘repellent’. Kuklick later added, however, that he will participate in the workshop as originally planned if Davidson’s current tenure policy is moderated or removed.

Fact 2: Professor John Hague, Director of the National American Studies Faculty, had agreed to contribute to the workshop both as a speaker and as a financier. Hague has subsequently threatened to rescind both offers if Davidson’s tenure policy remains unchanged.

Fact 3: The Honors Center had received a “general offer” from the National American Studies Faculty (NASF) toward the “travel and per diem expenses for visiting scholars” involved in the workshop, according to Avinger. However, the Linden case has generated “considerable concern” within the NASF, and its decision to support the workshop is being reviewed. Avinger feels that, if the college does not express an intention to moderate or remove the present requirements for tenure, the NASF offer of funds will “most probably” be rescinded.

Fact 4: Gordon E. Michaelson, Instructor of Religion, received indications from “outside academic contacts” advising him that “the kind of publicity the Linden case has generated” could be detrimental to Michaelson’s professional interests. Michaelson noted that his graduate adviser at Princeton was Malcolm L. Diamond, a noted Jewish scholar. When interviewed, Michaelson emphasized that his personal career is “hardly number one at this point.” Rather, he continued, “my first point of alarm is the reputation of the college.” Michaelson is concerned with the damaging effect that the Linden case will have on Davidson’s academic standing.

Fact 5: Nationwide publicity of Davidson’s tenure policy and Linden case includes an article in the most recent issue of the Chronicle of Higher Education. The Chronicle is a national magazine which is very widely read among professionals. As such, knowledge of Davidson’s tenure policy is available to all those seeking teaching positions.

Fact 6: The Princeton Economic Department recently expressed its disapproval with Davidson’s tenure policy and its fear of the limiting effect that this policy may have on the college’s graduates.

Fact 7: A Davidson student recently submitted a paper he had written to a journal for publication. When phoned, the journal said that they would have to wait and see what Davidson does with its tenure policy before accepting the paper.

When Jesus said, “Not everyone who says to me ‘Lord, Lord,’ shall enter the kingdom of heaven,” (Matt. 7:21) he proleptically countered the inclination of individuals, churches, and institutions to secure their Christian identity through exclusion.

Concerning the issue before us, it is important first of all to establish the theological point that Christian faith is more a matter of action than words, more a matter of inclusion than exclusion, more a matter of saying “yes” than saying “no.” (II Cor. 1:19) Discipleship means recognizing that Jesus has “other sheep” not of our fold, (John 10:16) that he himself has “broken down the dividing wall of hostility,” (Eph. 2:14) and that, far from “rejecting his people” (the Jews), he includes them, together with “the full number of Gentiles” (non-believers generally), in his kingdom. (Romans 11:1, 25, 26)

The present policy which has effectively excluded non-Christians from the Davidson faculty is therefore objectionable on theological grounds. It separates those whom Christ would unite. It trusts words more than actions. It restricts where Christ would make us free. In a fundamental way, it denies the faith it would protect by seeking protection through law rather than grace. For a “Church-related,” “Christian” college, such theological issues ought to control the discussion. Unfortunately, they do not. Therefore, other arguments may be advanced.

The present policy is also objectionable on moral grounds. It unjustly denies employment to many whose qualifications and commitments would increase the effectiveness of Davidson as a church-related college. It tends to bind the consciences of candidates and non-tenured faculty. It tempts some to substitute conformity for commitment, and others to resist commitment lest it be interpreted as conformity.

The present policy is objectionable on academic grounds. It directly contradicts the claim of our Statement of Purpose that Davidson would “set no limits to the adventures of the mind.” We appear unwilling to tolerate resident and continuingPerceptions of truth which do not conform to our own tradition and faith have been discussed again and again.

Fact 8: In connection with the Linden case, the American Association of University Professors is examining Davidson’s policy of religious requirements for tenure. Such theological, moral, and academic arguments are not new. They can be found in the report of the President’s Commission on Church Relation of 1969. They were reasserted in the faculty when it called for an end to this policy in 1972. Furthermore, in the history of this debate, the warning has been that if our principles will not persuade us to change this policy, practical necessity will. The inevitable conflict between this mistaken policy and the rules of government and higher education has now come to pass. State and federal agencies are reviewing our eligibility for public funds in light of our hiring policies, and the Political Science Society, the AAUP, and Phi Beta Kappa are investigating our actions to see if there are grounds for censure.

Therefore, we have to recognize that this policy has become impossible because of the danger it presents to the reputation of the college, its faculty, and its students. Some may believe that the present adverse publicity was generated by protests within the college itself. But it is surely naive to believe that Mr. Linden and his colleagues at Princeton would not have, and have not, alerted the public press to this incident. In fact, the acknowledgment of protest within the college has been the only positive note in otherwise uniformly disastrous publicity. Can anyone seriously imagine that charges of religious prejudice and anti-semitism, however unjust, in The Washington Post, The New York Times, and public media all across the country have not damaged our reputation? Can anyone doubt that this will hurt our recruitment of fine students—students whose families are sensitive to these issues? Can we now expect to attract the best faculty candidates from such traditional suppliers as Princeton University? Should we be surprised that a lecturer from a great university has just canceled his engagement at Davidson, or that a young and gifted faculty member has been urged by his graduate school to seek employment elsewhere? Should we not have expected the calls many of us have had from colleagues protesting this policy as well as our apparent willingness to live under it? And however unjust and unfair it may be, should we really be astonished that in the last week the publication of a student article has been withheld, or that an important graduate school has indicated that Davidson graduates will not be welcome in the future?

Can Davidson afford to stubbornly cling to a wrong-headed policy when reaction to that policy may result in prejudicial treatment of our students’ applications to medical, law, and other professional and graduate schools?

Christian Task Force to act [Continued from page 1]

The task force plans a blitz on the Trustees for the rest of this week. Ann Gray Harvey, President of the Senior Class, will present the petition to the Trustees at the Thursday afternoon Trustee Forum. Jay Silver will speak next, representing the MCA and DCF. Bo Baskin, former SGA President, will read the entire case statement to the Trustees. Vice-President Bruce Brown will then list the particular instances where the current policy has hurt the college. President Thom Young will then conclude, stressing the compromise of Davidson’s reputation and the need for constructive changes in our policy. At the Trustee Plenary Session on Friday, Young will again address the Trustees—emphasizing student concerns. “I’d like to emphasize,” said Young, “that our concerns are all constructive. Therefore, I have given Dr.

Liberals chop more By CHARLES L. LLOYD Faculty Guest Columnist

The first time I laid eyes on Sandy McKelway, three things about him were plain as a pikestaff: he loved God; he was a hard-headed and long-winded Scot; and he was a devout liberal. Nothing from this since, including his present article, has altered those impressions one hair. I cannot fault his Scripture, surprising as it is to encounter proof-texts from so modern a divine. But St. Paul, who orders us to receive those weak in the faith, warns us in the same sentence not to admit them to doubtful disputations; and our Lord makes no bones about prohibiting us the leavening of the Pharisees. Now the Pharisees are not confined to the rigidly righteous; the new set are the secular humanists, who have an orthodoxy that makes the Athanasian Creed sound like the Bill of Rights. They are in the saddle and they ride the universities and the learned societies roughshod and hell-for-leather. We have in the past refused tenure to committed Christians; they left quietly, some for better things and some for Washington. But if we now, to prove our liberalism, hire an atheist or a fire-worshipper, we shall not dare refuse him tenure. The Washington Post