PT gy 6

Christmas Gift Ideas

Faculty lists favorite books

By Nancy McNair
Features Editor

Oh, the luxury of picking up a book, a really good book, and reading it for sheer enjoyment; the pleasure of curling up before a blazing fire with a cup of hot cider and an intriguing volume. Davidson professors and staff members offered numerous suggestions for holiday reading and gift giving.

The man who directs a library of over 230,000 volumes, Leland Park, recommends "Gifts from the Sea" by Anne Morrow Lindbergh because it is “good for the season—makes you look at yourself and others.” J. Nicholas Burnett noted that James Watson’s "The Double Helix" would make good holiday reading. He said it was fascinating for him to see the personal conflict which led to the discovery of the DNA model. Since not everyone can be the head of the Davidson Chemistry Department, he added that it is enjoyable because “it’s not too technical.” Burnett has also enjoyed "The Hobbit," and has just started Tolkien’s trilogy.

The Great Outdoors seems to be a popular subject for pleasurable reading. Julius Winkler, Professor of German, named several books which sound like fishermen’s bibles but are actually “of wider scope. They’re not ‘how to fish’ books.” Among them are "Trout Madness" by Robert Traver, "The Best of Corey Ford," and "In Defense of Worms (and Other Angling Heresies)" by Frederic Van de Water. He also suggested "A River Runs Through It (and Other Stories)" by Norman MacLean as “a good look at the life of loggers in Montana.”

David Shi also suggested an outdoorsy book, Roderick Nash’s "The Wilderness and The American Mind," which presents the contrasting views of the outdoors, the idea of resource management versus the “soft, sentimental, nostalgic” view of the country. He cited the fact that men had a sudden yearning to return to the wilderness when they were startled to learn that “the frontier was closed” in the 1890s. True to his field, history, Shi named Arthur Link’s biography of Woodrow Wilson and William Henry Harbaugh’s of Theodore Roosevelt. He named "Humboldt’s Gift" by Saul Bellow as well.

Randy Nelson, novitiate of the English Department, thinks that John McPhee is “perhaps the best non-fiction writer in the country—although he is virtually unknown in the South.” Anything by McPhee, particularly "The McPhee Reader" or his new book on Alaska comes highly recommended, along with Piers Anthony's “underground classic” "Macroscope." To follow some light reading of Dick Francis’ mysteries, Louise Allen, assistant director of the N.C. Fellows program at Davidson, recommends a rather lengthy book entitled "The Children of Pride," a story of the Charles Colcock Jones family from the Savannah, Georgia area at the time of the Civil War.

English Department Chairman Richard Cole recommends Galsworthy’s "Forsyte Saga" along with Robert Graves’ novel "I, Claudius." Both are being shown on PBS at 9 and 10 PM on Sunday nights. Georgianna Ziegler indicated an interest in the historical novel with her selections. "The Golden Warrior" by Hope Muntz was suggested to her by a professor when she was in college. "Katherine" by Anya Seton is the story of the mistress of John of Gaunt. "Becket" by Jean Anouilh also describes the life of a historical figure. Rosemary Sutcliffe’s "Sword at Sunset" is one version of the Arthurian legend.

What would Christmas be without Charles Dickens? Gil Holland recommended "The Pickwick Papers." He also listed Melville’s "Typee" and "A Sportsman's Sketches" by Turgenev. The reason? “Pure pleasure.”

In a more serious vein, Earl MacCormac of the Philosophy Department lists Neil Sheehan’s "The Pentagon Papers" and "The Best and the Brightest" by David Halberstam as illustrative of “the divorce between facts and values in academics.” He also lists Edward Wilson's "Sociobiology," "Poetics for Sociology" by Richard Brown, and Ronnie Dugger's "Our Invaded Universities." He has found Jean-Paul Sartre’s "The Wall" and "The Trilogy" appealing, as well as Humphrey Carpenter's biography of Tolkien and Tolkien's newly released "The Silmarillion." Mystery writer Dorothy Sayers’ "Gaudy Night" would also be easy holiday reading, according to MacCormac.

“Annie Dillard has an incredible capacity for seeing things,” said Anthony Abbott of her book "Pilgrim at Tinker Creek." “I was most moved by 'Ordinary People'... very touching... simply written... you could sit down and read it straight through.” He described Judith Guest’s book as the story of a family dealing with being ordinary people after one family member returns from a stay in a mental institution.for Abnormal Psych,” he added. Another personal favorite is Frederick Buechner’s Telling the Truth: The Gospel as Tragedy, Comedy, and Fairy Tale, which he uses in one of his English courses. In Spanish its title is Cien Anos de Soledad; the English translation is One Hundred Years of Solitude. Lois Kemp of the Spanish Department suggested this book because it is "...very humorous, very tragic, a synthesis of the Latin American experience." Since it was published, it has become a classic in literature. The book is available in a Pulitzer prize-winning translation by Gregory Rabassa. Charles Cornwell also suggested One Hundred Years of Solitude, as well as Stella Gibbon’s Cold Comfort Farm. “It’s funny; it’s delightful,” and Frank Herbert's science fiction.

See BOOKS, page 4.

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Despite recent rumors to the contrary, gambling (and especially poker) is alive and well at Davidson. As a matter of fact, it’s flourishing! While weighing the sins of such a damning activity at a staunch Presbyterian school like Davidson may seem impious, there are many avid participants.

The brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon seem bound and determined to promote campus gambling to a level equal in prominence to academics, such as the top of Will Terry’s head, Ernie Patterson’s black tie, and Zach Long’s wolfman beard. The Sig Ep’s recently hosted a casino party unprecedented this side of Las Vegas. Apparently robbing the bank at Monte Carlo, they auctioned off thousands of dollars' worth of prizes to Davidson’s hard-core gamblers. The most sought-after prize was Billy Carter!

The ring-leader of the horrendous affair was none other than “Ray the SPE” Berberick, currently under investigation by the FBI for gambling and the Interstate Commerce Commission for the Coors. Pending the charges against Ray, the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon plan a similar gala occasion in January, complete with roulette, craps, blackjack, and stolen one-arm bandits.

What ever happened to pool hustlers? Ask C. Shaw Smith, the proprietor of the best pool hall in Davidson. It is upstairs in the Student Union, and even though you can’t drink beer while participating in the sport that won millions for Minnesota Fats, this delectable beverage is readily and inexpensively available in the 900 Room next door (also owned and operated by Davidson College). And while you're in the 900 Room, take advantage of the entertainment. The best entertainment is offered by President Spencer, when he appears by surprise, to lecture on the evils of alcohol, gambling, shoving milk trucks in the creek, and giving Zach Long a shave. (Take a hint, Zach?)

Gambling is rampant in the 900 Room, where it appeals to the sophisticate in the form of backgammon. Most recently promoted by the irreproachable Hugh Hefner, backgammon will soon be front row and center at Davidson. This game of games does not take money as its aim, but beer instead. Winners drink beer until you bust, after winning beer after beer in exponential proportions! After all, money is not everything, but a good brew is everything on a slow night. Stakes are high, as witnessed in the continuing conflict between Marshall Brown and Fred “Hardware” Goodwin. Coors beer, second only to Pabst Blue Ribbon in popularity. Thank you.

At the end of fall term, Hardware had won 64 beers from the not-so-cunning Brown. However, nothing, no nothing, will ever replace the fine game of five-card stud. It should not be called a game, for it is an art, an art that would make Herb Jackson turn green with envy for not having mastered it. We must admit that the best five-card studs on campus are Jack Sullivan and Stan Brown, the former relying on true grit and the latter on the laws of probability. If Bruce Jackson ever discovers the probability angle of the game, we’re in trouble.

The Davidson poker player of all time, though, is Bunny Horrine, who pays her fifty-dollar-a-month phone bill as a result of her Friday night winnings. Her secret? She stays cold sober. The gambler of the year is without a doubt George Bright. It is not known exactly what his winnings were, but Bright, a junior, took quite a gamble when he consumed an unprecedented one hundred beers during the week following Thanksgiving break. For sure, George is in a state of thanks now that his memorable ordeal is history.