‘Two More Pieces of Davidson News’

Two people within the Davidson College community recently died. Myron Wallace McGill, Davidson College's assistant treasurer from his graduation in 1922 until 1968 and treasurer and clerk of the town of Davidson from 1943 to 1968, died September 22. He was 79 years old. George Reedy ‘78, on leave in Kenya, was returning from a vacation in Mombasa to the village school where he had taught and served as headmaster since February when he was killed in an automobile accident.

Chaplain to Students Rush Otey, on leave this semester at Duke, knew both McGill and Reedy and addressed the following letter to The Davidsonian:

Two friends of mine died their separate deaths not long ago. Myron McGill succumbed to old age, having been able to live in his home on North Main Street until almost the very end. George Reedy died a long way from his hometown of Montglen, in an untimely and tragic accident in Kenya. In many ways, their lives were as different as their deaths. Myron was old and white, a retired College official. George was young and black, having arrived in 1974 as a freshman. Myron had discovered his vocation years before George was born. George was still on the verge of that discovery, still testing a few hypotheses, still wondering. George was single; Myron leaves behind children and grandchildren. Myron’s suffering and joy were of a different tone, at least, from George’s—the variations being two themes of the as yet unfinished Southern symphony. Their faults were disparate as well. But I think they would have recognized each other as kindred spirits had they ever been given the chance, and here is why. They both knew the meaning of gentleness and caring, or at least it seemed that way to me. For each of these friends, there are many memories.

You don’t have to be a scholar to graduate. To receive the $2500 paid to all cadets during their last two years in the program, the subject is leadership. The course is Army ROTC. The curriculum, quite different from the “left-right-left” drill sessions and military history classes of yesterday, is exciting, challenging, and flexible. Practical leadership with on-hand adventure training and management experience aid in developing men and women to shoulder greater responsibilities at an earlier age than most others. Upon graduation as a commissioned Army officer and selection for active duty, you'll have an employment option starting at $10,500. Such an option is invaluable among college graduates facing extreme difficulties in today’s job market. Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead. In addition to its full 4-year scholarships, Army ROTC offers 3-, 2-, and 1-year scholarships for which all cadets are eligible to compete.

When George was a freshman, he heard about some poor housing in town and quietly signed up as a volunteer to help remedy the substandard conditions. After both the headlines and...the outrage were history, he with a few others persevered on several winter weekends, going from door-to-door and talking with the residents about their needs. The resulting survey was in part the basis for plans now being finalized for additional low-income housing units for the Town of Davidson. If one ever went looking for Myron and did not find him at home, chances were that he could be located standing in front of the greeting card display at the Village Store, poring over the messages to find exactly the right touch for a child's birthday, for a friend in the hospital, for a special holiday greeting. I wonder now what the Post Office will do without his business at the stamp window! Perhaps the often tenuous connection between black and white, young and old, Davidson and Kenya, mundane life and life of everlasting qualities, is somewhere within that phrase ‘You are salt to the world.’ Salt both seasons and preserves, without a lot of expense or grandeur. It leaves a powerful taste. A memorial fund for George Reedy is being set up. The money will go to the school in Kenya where he worked. Donations will be accepted by the Davidson YMCA.

YOUR NEW ROOMMATE’S BABY BROTHER? SEE THE BIG BOY HIMSELF AT THE VILLAGE

September 30, 1977

PLANS FOR A NEW BIKE

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Staff Writer

The Department of Transportation has selected Davidson as a Model Bicycle City. As a result, the Davidson Bicycle Demonstration Project has been organized under the leadership of Ms. Mary Dawn Liston. “This distinction really amounts to a challenge to develop a model bicycle program to show the state how bicycle ridership can be increased,” declared Liston. Other primary goals of the program are to increase rider safety and to promote understanding of the bicycle as a vehicle of many uses during this age of conservation.

The DOT is supporting the Bicycle Demonstration Project with an initial one-year grant which consists of “software incentives” such as films, registration materials, planning aids, questionnaires, plus other promotional and educational materials. Two consultants from DOT will also be working with the project. Liston feels that she is ‘serving an umbrella function,’ acting as a central coordinator for the many facets of the program. She has divided the direction of the project into two main thrusts: the school-aged children in town, and the adult residents and college students. According to Liston, the P.T.A. and Davidson Police Department will head up the youth program. Bike skills and safety will be the main areas of concentration here. A bicycle rodeo, student-produced slide/tape show, and a household ridership survey [See MODEL, page 16]

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday — Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503

8:00—10:30 PM. D. C. POP FILMS PRESENTS: TAXI DRIVER FRIDAY