December 16, 1977

The Davidsonian

Library Sparks
By Vijay K. Verghese
Guest Columnist

It stands in splendid glory, the high priest of wisdom, its darkened portals reflecting the glare of a harsh winter’s
sun, its inner secrets withheld from mortal view. What lurks within? Amazed at my temerity, I cautiously push open a
door and slide into the somber hush. The heathen in the E. H. Little library. Bright neon lights cast a
mantle of hope on a myriad of hapless souls that lie littered in disorganized profusion, bleary eyes perusing through closed
lids, hands desperately clutching enormous volumes perched precariously on somnolent laps. Transcendental education, I think to myself as I step
boldly in. But wait—something moves in the shadows. It approaches me with murderous intent. Is it man or beast? Forsooth,
’tis a walking bookshelf. Avast villain, thou shalt rue this day! I back up to the wall in cold sweat
and strike a heroic pose. Ahh—’tis only a young student who has overindulged his passion for borrowing books, unable to
see over the vast stack he has amassed in his loving hands. He floats by, beatific smile on face, blissfully
unaware of a certain Indian youth who averted fatal collision only through his alacrity and nimble leaps. “Could I lend
you a periscope?” I mutter. “WATCH THAT STEP.” To the Editor (crash)... Too late. The aforementioned gentleman lies on the
green carpeted floor, ribs crushed by ten black neatly bound volumes of Biology. One Davidson soul stuffed with the eclectic
nothingness of liberal arts is off to meet its maker. Nothing more can be done for that poor unfortunate; so
I plod up the stairs to browse through the newspapers that provide one’s only contact with the outside world in
this microscopic bucolic town which could be easily transported to Outer Mongolia without any of its gentle folk realizing the
difference in location or clime. Sinking into a soft beckoning armchair, I laboriously unfold and spread out what appears to
be a promising paper. ‘Julius Caesar Invades Britain,’ scream the headlines. Christ! There must be something a little more recent
than this. I plough through the dusty shelves in a frenzy, hurling magazines and newspapers around me in frantic desperation.
“Information,” I croak, to no one in particular, proves fruitless and I stagger downstairs again, breathing heavily, carefully avoiding the
mass of unconscious humanity that snores on, catnapping on the shredded paper, empty shelves, and desolation that bear mute testimony
to the ebullience of a thwarted functionary. The heathen calms his hysteria. I need to talk to someone, I think
to myself. This solitude is unbearable. With slow measured stride, an air of nonchalance and composed mien, I stroll over
to the nearest corpse and attempt to evoke a response. Camaraderie can penetrate the seemingly impervious. “Hey, what’s happening in
South Africa?” I whisper in a grave manner, allowing a gentle frown to crease my forehead to set the somber
mood.

Policy Shafts Females
To the Editor:

The college administration seems perplexed as to why some decisions produce unanticipated student resistance. (Is it just desultory youth rebellion?)
They unwittingly ask: What formula can be employed to avoid future confrontations? But such a line of reasoning will not
remedy the situation—the problem should be recognized as one resulting essentially from the improper frame of reference from which policy
is interpreted, not political miscalculation. Refusing to hire a Jew and the subtle discharging of an Atheist, the unjustified rejection
of a Russian language course, heavily fining a freshman girls’ hall for a harmless lipstick and shaving cream prank, concealing
blacks from prospective white students, and the patronizing dictation of uniform (?) course loads all are indicative of a flaw
in basic attitudes, and create an image incompatible with a purpose imbuing enlightenment. The archaism is revealingly displayed by the
unchanged status of females in admissions policy: a memorandum slipped under my door announced that of the proposed admittance of
350 students for next year, only 100 can be women. Why is entrance to Davidson so much more restrictive for
females than males, what’s the justification for the refusal of a sex-blind admissions practice based on merit, not sexual bias?
The reasons I've heard are far too weak for justifying such a policy and posture. The real reason, I suspect,
and I hesitate to mention it because it constitutes such a sharp accusation and because it probably lies undisclosed at
the bottom of a set of which the policy-makers are unconscious, but this base motive is the attitude that females
do not possess.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

an equal claim to an education. It was under societal pressures and the fear of the college becoming unattractive to
modern-day males that the Trustees yielded to co-education. But once those initial requirements were met, no further concessions were considered,
no thought to the moral rightness of denying women the same consideration as men. Of course, we need to arrange
the numbers to fit the physical facilities and freshman halls should remain single-sex. (It’s not absolutely imperative that all freshman
co-eds be contained in a single building.) But determined quotas which more accurately reflect applications are necessary if we are
to represent our admissions policy as somewhat fair and equitable.

Chuck Gaddy, ’80

DAVIDSON

“Trust have it” Adam the search - Where's Africa?” Brown is gentle no more. “Are you Indian?” “No, I'm a
Russian secret agent disguised as a bulldog” is what I wish to say but instead I nod my head in
polite confirmation. He beams at the astounding accuracy of his observation. “How come you speak English?” “I learned it on
the plane.” Humour him, I think to myself. After all, his mental horizons and world vision have been circumscribed by
the perimeters of this vast metropolis, liberal Art tidbits, and quickie courses.

“Do you have holy cows in India?” “No, we have communist buffaloes.” A Mephistophelian gleam flickers across my eyes. “Have
you brought your car with you? Did you come by camel?” “No, my elephant is right-hand drive. Nice talking to
you,” I grind through a frozen smile and gnashing teeth, and execute a quick getaway. I am by now like
a man possessed. I wipe my brow with my ever-present handkerchief and gaze in wonderment at the multitude lost in
study. The apotheosis of futile enlightenment and the waste of four years. No time for simple human relationships; no time
even to absorb and assimilate the multitudinous information (however transient), pouring into the benumbed minds that serve as short-term repositories
till the next bothersome exam. Exiguous knowledge and gnawing loneliness, the siblings of a Liberal Arts descent.

Ah well, the people are terribly nice, I think to myself and seek consolation in the reassuring fact that Davidson
is a gigantic, megalopolis, all hustle, bustle, and excitement. Finest theatres, races, avant-garde art, superlative music, cosmopolitan culture, and other
interesting diversions: all available within the radius of seven hundred miles! Fortunate are we to have been so blessed by
the kind hand of fate.

All of a sudden, I am torn out of my reverie as the door bursts open and a shivering figure
lurches in, eyes shining with a strange brightness that augurs ill. Rushing up to him, I enquire discreetly—“Slater?” He manages
a feeble nod and promptly dies in my arms. Lucretia Borgia cheers lustily in heaven as I lower the body
of my fallen colleague to the ground and mumble a pater noster. The Gourmets flee, the corpses remain insensitive to
this high drama.

“Hello there,” I shout at the top of my voice. Echo races through the empty silence as a cold dampness
clutches my heart. I awake? The heathen trembles. Truly tis the work of the devil. Steeling myself, I decide on
one last try. “Excuse me, sir.” This to an elderly professor lost in the intricate convolutions of an intimidating philosophical
treatise. He turns around stiffly and frostily eyes the cause of the interruption. Unperturbed, I exclaim that it’s impossible to
locate the ‘selected works of Lenin’ considering the incoherent cataloguing and the fact that all the diligent souls are sound
asleep. He gasps. I smile, a response at last. “Communist, communist,” he splutters in rage, delivers a deft blow to
my shoulder, screams, and collapses, the victim of a weak heart.

The hibernation is over. Pandora's box lies open and Communists, Radicals, Jews, and other such sundry plagues and nuisances spring
forth to haunt the young bewildered upper bourgeois class minds that meditate within this warm insulated sanctuary of splendid seclusion.
My expostulations fall on deaf ears and I am forced to beat a hasty retreat out into the fading glow
of a winter sunset. It had to happen sometime. Someone walks by—“But I have promises to keep and miles to
go before I sleep, and miles to go before I sleep...” “Stop that Robert,” I shriek, “the library is right
over here; sleep tight.”

There is nothing more I can do to ameliorate the lot of my poor fellow men so I trudge back
through the crisp fallen leaves to my room. The Brown Man's Burden is hard to bear. Happy Christmas.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION INC. CO., GENERAL CONTRACTORS P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary
