The Davidsonian

Religion provides intangible asset

By ANN GARNER
FOCUS Editor

During the incident involving Christian tenure last spring, national attention was focused upon Davidson as a religiously affiliated institution. While
the community struggled to reach a solution to this controversy, the students, faculty, and administration continuously affirmed one thing: the
desire to keep Davidson’s religious commitment. Yet, how is this commitment, which seems to be so keenly recognized and appreciated,
manifested within the college community itself?

“At Davidson, Christian commitment has been a very sustained attempt to maintain an institution of genuine academic excellence and at
the same time, a genuine Christian emphasis,” says Dean of Students Will H. Terry. Professor of Religion Daniel Rhodes elaborated:
“Davidson has always worked on the assumption that faith and reason should go hand in hand. It’s the division, the
tension between the best of mind and the best in terms of faith that we’re trying to put together.”

In the past, outward signs of Davidson's Christian commitment could be found in mandatory chapel, vespers, and certain required religion
courses. “The most overt positive influence occurred when the church overtured the move to become an integrated institution,” continued Rhodes.
“The student body was opposed at the time, but the next year, the faculty picked it up and asked the
Trustees to go all the way.”

“The problem students have and the problem the church has is that they have concrete ideas and expectations of how
a college articulates its Christian commitment,” added Terry. “A lot of people in the church look for the viable signs
of the Christian college, while some students see the church connection as an obstacle to academic excellence and national prestige.”

“Yet here, our approach is different—we use it as a basis from which we operate,” Terry stated. “It is expressed
in policy-making by the administration and trustees with Christian implications in mind; through excellence—for in settling for mediocrity, we betray
our faith as our goal; by raising issues out of a sense of Christian commitment, such as the way we
spend our resources; and in the concern exhibited particularly in student-faculty relations.” Rhodes echoed, “When it comes right down to
it, there are a lot of things we take for granted—more specifically, the relationship between faculty and students. I tend
to think it reflects the religious commitment.”

“The YMCA also involves action that transcends the classroom and allows students to do something expressing a concern for one’s
fellow man. These students are responding to an ideal we’re setting of a good liberal arts college that upholds its
Christian commitment,” concluded Rhodes.

Davidson is also aided financially through its religious affiliations. Melton summarized, “There is no evidence one way or the other
that we were affected by the Christian tenure controversy in terms of monetary support. Of course, the alumni would be
the least affected by adverse newspaper reporting. All in all, Davidson has the best of both worlds: a firm church
relationship with a real and total absence of Church control.”

Will Terry concluded, “I can’t see why we can’t use the Lindon incident to grow, to sharpen our focus of
what we really want to be about. For as the culture becomes more secularized, we’re going to have to work
like the dickens to keep our Christian commitment. But if we can pull it off, we will provide a very
viable alternative.”

Religion on campus

News Analysis

Other influences of the Christian commitment in initiating “a certain kind of freedom” were cited by Rhodes as 1) the
Davidson administration’s defense of the policy to accept Communist speakers on campus (At the time, there was a ‘hullabaloo’ at
UNC and the NC legislature “was up in arms” over the question) and 2) the invitation of an evangelical atheist
to speak and carry on a debate with Dr. Earl MacCormac several years ago.

“Now the focus on Christian commitment is subtler,” states Terry. “With it becoming manifest in the atmosphere created, it’s a
basis from which we operate.”

“It’s an intangible asset that our relationship with the church has provided,” said Archivist Chalmers Davidson. “Intangible in that it’s
given Davidson a character of its own; unique in a way which relates directly to the personal integrity of its
graduates.”

In regards to how the Christian commitment is implemented, Rhodes responded, “The obvious things are not here that students can
ignore such as chapel and vespers. Students can go through here without consciously feeling the impact of Christian commitment. And
we don’t always represent,” said Duane Dittman, Vice-President of Development. Julius Melton, Director of Special Resources added, “In the budgeted
gifts from the Presbyterian synod of North Carolina, Davidson is pledged $65,000. In one respect this amount makes up less
than 1 percent of our budget, and yet on the other hand, it represents 10 percent of the annual giving
support. It’s not something we want to throw away.”to the wind.” “One can’t measure the more important individual gifts to
college because of Christian commitment,” maintained Ditman. “Yet one example occurred yesterday; we received correspondence from an alumnus who had
been withholding long-range commitment. He stated that he was now reassured that Davidson does not want to become a secularized
institution and wants to make a substantial, sacrificial commitment to the college over the next five years.” “We’re also able
to attract gifts because Davidson is an institution that honors its heritage. This aspect provides a stability and that wavering
doesn’t hold,” added Ditman. “We don’t confuse people about what we are.”

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

Spring, 1977: A Jewish professor from New Jersey, candidate for an opening in Davidson’s Political Science Department, declares that he
cannot in good conscience “uphold and seek to increase the college’s effectiveness as a church-related college,” as the Trustee By-Laws
demand that he do. Davidson rescinds its job offer from the professor, and students join with faculty in a boycott
of Convocation to express their opposition to the discriminatory By-Law—a By-Law which seems to discourage the hiring of non-Christians at
Davidson. “Real-world” media men invade the campus and write articles hinting that Davidson is anti-semitic. The Trustees gather and claim
that the college has been unfairly accused. “Davidson does not exclude non-Christians from its faculty,” say the Trustees, and to
prove it they fashion a more liberal-sounding By-Law and pass it on first reading. That sets the stage for final
approval at the Trustees’ October meeting. After then, all will see that Davidson’s doors are open to those who can
“work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in harmony
with the purpose of the college...”

Sounds great, doesn’t it? Southern school divorces antiquated notions, moves into a new era of academic freedom and search for
truth. Yes, it sounds great, but it is not true. The Trustees sold out at the October meeting, and there
is no “new era” at Davidson. The Trustees did pass the new By-Law. It explains why Davidson wants Christians on
the faculty, but does not explain why the college wants non-Christians; thus, it divides Christians and non-Christians into “sheep and
goats” camps. But that is quibbling over words. Undeniably, in black and white, the By-Law states: “The President is also
authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and faculty members non-Christian persons...”

So why did the Trustees sell out? Along with the new By-Law the Trustees passed another statement—call it an “enacting
statement”—that in my opinion effectively dilutes and may even supplant the new By-Law. The enacting statement, not part of any
official By-Law, is directed only towards the highest ideals of the Christian faith.

Adopted Trustee Resolution

Resolved, that paragraph 5 of Article IV be and it hereby is amended to read as follows:

5. It is natural and desirable that the educational service of a church-related College should be carried forward from one
generation to another by persons committed to the Christian faith. The Christian commitment of a church-related College is reflected not
only in its corporate policies, programs, and stewardship of resources, but especially in the individuals who make up its community.
For that reason, the President is authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members Christian men and women
who are not only highly competent but who understand and respond to the implications of their commitment as Christians. The
President is also authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons who can work with respect
for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in harmony with the purpose
of the College as set forth in the Davidson College Constitution.

The enacting statement is another standard. It is a sort of “here’s what we're really trying to say” memo from
the Trustees to Dr. Spencer. That statement hurls Davidson back into an era of closed-mindedness which I believed last spring
that we had left behind. That enacting statement is printed alongside this opinion. Take a minute to read it, consider
it carefully, then listen as three faculty members react to it.

Professor of Philosophy Robert E. Maydole:

“Its talk of ‘a preponderant majority of the teaching faculty and administration staff continuing to be professing and practicing Christians’
and ‘it is appropriate to inquire as to the religious faith and practice of those who are to join the
faculty or the staff’—these phrases and these requirements are contrary to what I think the faculty felt was the spirit
of the By-Law.

“If I were a Jew, I would think that what we had here was a double standard. We have one
standard which we present to the public in the form of a By-Law that is reasonably acceptable. But the enacting
state-”
