September 30, 1977
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The faculty apartments, located behind the Carnegie Guest House, will be used for student housing next year, while Park Place
will become faculty apartments, according to Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls. Park Place, a duplex located on Concord Road,
has housed students for the past few years. Nicholls explained the decision as a move to locate students on campus
while placing faculty in Davidson residential sections.

“I think the idea of using [the faculty apartments for students] has been in the back of our minds because
it is a logical place for students,” said Nicholls. “But there have always been faculty established there.”

The faculty apartments have four apartments, while Park Place has only two, but Nicholls foresees no problem in using Park
Place to house faculty. She has not decided how many students the apartments will house or if they will be
furnished or not. She hopes to put four students in each of the apartments but says one of the college
applicants, Will Terry, believes each apartment can hold five by putting one student in the dining area.

Faculty Recommendation to Amend Article IV, Paragraph 5

As a college dedicated to the service of God and man and to a free and open search for truth
and knowledge, Davidson welcomes dedicated men and women of all persuasions to its Administration and Faculty. Furthermore, as a church-related
institution, Davidson recognizes that it is called to witness to the Christian faith in the realm of higher education. The
President is therefore charged to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members men and women who [1] are professionally
competent, [2] are of high moral stature, and [3] can live in harmony with the basic purposes of the College
as reflected in the Constitution.

Trustee Resolution

Resolved, that paragraph 5 of Article IV be and it hereby is amended to read as follows:

“It is natural and desirable that the educational service of a church-related College should be carried forward from one generation
to another by persons committed to the faith of its founders. The Christian commitment of a church-related College is reflected
not only in its corporate policies, programs, and stewardship of resources, but especially in the lives of the individuals who
make up its community. For that reason, the President is authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members
Christian men and women who are not only highly competent but who understand and respond to the implications of their
commitment as Christians. The President is also authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons of
genuine spirituality, who can work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who
can live in harmony with the purpose and policies of the College as set forth in the Davidson College Constitution.”

“I think anybody who has lived in the apartments has a different idea,” she said about Terry's plan to house
five students in each apartment. The final decision will come from the consensus opinions of Nicholls, Terry, and Business Manager
Robert A. Currie. The apartments will be placed on the lottery and available only to seniors according to Nicholls. Perimeter
housing is not available to underclassmen because they can hold an entire house year to year. Nicholls wants all houses
to be in the lottery yearly.

“I think [housing students in the faculty apartments] will be good because it offers an option we didn’t offer before.
These are reasonably nice spots for students. One of the biggest plusses of these places is that you can live
with a few of your friends,” said Nicholls. She said parking behind the apartments will be “probably what [the students
living in them] will do, but that will have to be something the parking committee will have to decide.”

Faculty Clarifies By-law

[Continued from page 1]

The faculty recommendation voiced additional objections to the language of the Trustees’ resolution. “The resolution says that ‘it is natural
and desirable that the educational service of a church-related college should be carried forward... etc.’ That seems very well set
out. (But) the question of appointing non-Christians to the faculty seems to be an appendage added on the end of
the statement... the groundwork for justifying the appointment of non-Christians does not seem to be very well set out,” Rice
said.

Professor of History William Brown Patterson, the third co-author of the faculty recommendation, said that it aims to eliminate all
religious requirements for hiring and tenure. He maintained that phrases in the Trustees’ resolution like ‘genuine spirituality’ still reflect a
religious requirement. One part of the faculty recommendation says that the President should recommend for appointment men and women who
can live in harmony with the basic purpose of the College.college as reflected in the Constitution.” Maydole explained this clause:
“That Davidson College is a Christian institution is one of the basic ideals expressed in the Constitution and Statement of
Purpose.”

“I think a person can live in harmony with this without having to respect the entirety of the Christian tradition.
That means, as I understand it, that a person is not going to try to change Davidson from a church-related
college to a secular college, that a person is not going to try to eliminate the presence of Christian ministry
on campus, that a person is not going to try to eliminate funds that now go for maintaining and increasing
Christian institutions and organizations on campus.”

“To live in harmony with something does not entail that you agree with everything or even that you respect everything,
but it means that you're not going to be an iconoclast, that you're not going to be destructive,” commented Maydole.
“I admit that the phrase (‘live in harmony’) is not as clear as it otherwise might be, but it certainly
is a lot better than the other.” (the Trustees’ resolution)

All three co-authors of the faculty recommendation hope the Trustees will consider carefully the by-law revision. “What we have to
do now is make sure that we do not return to a policy which is a simple rephrasing using vaguer
language from the way it was originally,” said Maydole. “With an issue as delicate as this you ought to make
it (the by-law) crystal clear so that nothing gets misinterpreted. To leave things in a vague or ambiguous state is
simply to invite misinterpretation,” he said.

Patterson feels that “now is the time to take a careful look at the thing, because chances are we will
have it for a long time to come.”

Rice, a professor at Williams College last year, viewed the Christian Tenure controversy last spring from an outside perspective, and
he sees the Trustees’ task as an especially urgent one. “I cannot minimize the damage that the events of last
spring did to Davidson in the eyes of outsiders not familiar with the parameters of the difficulties,” he said.

“I would like us to embrace the opportunity to make a strong and affirmative invitation to non-Christians to join this
community.”

The faculty recommendation is a revision of a statement drafted last spring by the Executive Committee of the faculty. Rice
said that both documents uphold the principle of removing religious requirements for tenure. Of the two versions spelling out that
principle, the faculty felt the recent revision to be clearer and more straightforward.

The Executive Committee of the faculty will meet with the Trustees Executive Committee and present the faculty's recommendation.

---

[Continued from page 1]

The process of self-selection seems to me the best way to go about choosing a place to be a part
of for your Davidson years.” PAX President Jane Childs added, “We sympathize with the problems of the fraternities but we
think it is possible to work within the system.”

The national fraternity presidents also stated that they found no problem in remaining within the system but they would like
to have a greater say in who joins the fraternity. PIKA President Randy Sherrill said that while his house thought
that “the philosophy of self-selection is fairly good,” he would like to see the system allow the fraternities to have
more of a say in the decision of who joins the house.

Christopher, who is also president of KA, said that he was personally in favor of self-selection, “because it tends to
prevent any kind of factionalizing in the college. One thing that has discouraged elitism at Davidson is self-selection.” Vance added
that a “substantial minority” of the members of KA support that view. “I think most people at KA are not
violently opposed to self-selection,” he said.

SAE President Jud Bryan said that he was somewhat confused by the recent developments but added that his fraternity wanted
to coexist with the eating houses in the present system. “Our house is not trying to push for a 1969
type of bid system,” he explained.

President of Phi Delta Theta Ted Pappayliou agreed with those sentiments and said that he hoped that the Trustees will
not overreact and abolish fraternities at Davidson. “If you run a smart program you can get who you want down
to the house without breaking the rules and having to discourage people,” he said.

Meanwhile, it appears that the college will retain its present system of self-selection for the time being while the subcommittee
and the Advisory Council continue to work out the fine details of the proposed system.
