The Washington Post story about SS eet. over the poeving and discussing it with some of my frankly outraged colleagues,
I have decided that it would be inappropriate to come to Davidson; and I must decline your recent invitation to
teach in the faculty workshop in American Studies in the Center for Honors Studies. My reason is obvious—the Davidson policy
is repellent. I should add, however, that my concern for the morality of the policy does not stem from my
own religious commitment. Both of my parents were Lutheran, and I was raised in the German Reformed Protestant tradition. I
have now been teaching and writing in American Studies for ten years, and have often been called upon to reflect
on the special nature of the American Studies scholar’s role in understanding the culture of which he is a part.
If this reflection has taught me anything, it is that there is no such thing as an Ivory Tower, no
activity educators engage in that does not have political consequences. Re- bie to ples ot a at Davidson is a
display of morality, but it is all Vicia sh Gib dudalons ip éayrnec-uey pg Davidson's tenure I do not, of
course, speak for the American Studies Association or the American Quarterly—although I wish I did—but solely in my capacity as
a concerned academic. I am sorry if this puts you to any great trouble and do not mean my letter
to attack you personally. I cannot believe that members of the faculty or the student body approve of the policy;
I am aware of the overall excellence of education at Davidson; and it disturbs me deeply that faculty and students
will suffer because of a misguided view of Christian ideals.

Bruce Kuklick
Editor, American Quarterly
Professor of History
University of Pennsylvania

Alumnus attacks policy — To the Editor:
I enclose a copy of an article carried by the Las Vegas Review-Journal of April 25, 1977. I am appalled
by its description of Davidson’s tragi-comic attempt to hire Dr. Ronald Linden, but I am heartened by your assessment of
student opinion on this issue.

Princeton professors display ignorance about Linden affair
To the Editor:
Newspaper headlines around the country are telling about the refusal of Davidson College to hire Ronald H. Linden, an alumnus
of Princeton University, on the grounds that he is Jewish. Such blatant Anti-Semitism is being rationalized on the basis of
the college’s bylaws which restrict faculty positions to “Christian men and women who...respond to the implications of commitment as Christians.”
The presence of non-Christians apparently is believed to be a “corrupting” factor which will somehow pollute the “pure Christian atmosphere”
of the college. In fact, the Davidson case is highly reminiscent of another case where a group of “purists” barred
Jews from teaching positions. At that time a somewhat less delicate term was used; schools where Christians were to study
should be “Judenrein.” In the spring of 1933, thirty-four years almost to the day before the Davidson case, a series
of laws were passed by the German Reichstag, including one barring entrance into German schools to all Jewish faculty and
students. These laws pre-dated the Nuremberg laws by some six months. Those legislators also believed that the “Christian atmosphere” of
German schools would be corrupted by the presence of Jews. Discrimination against Jews on grounds of “preserving the Christian atmosphere
of the school” is no less abhorrent than, say, barring blacks from a school in order to preserve a white
atmosphere, barring Italians, Mexicans, Indians, etc. on grounds of preserving an Anglo-Saxon atmosphere, or barring lower-income students on grounds of
preserving an “atmosphere of economic success.” It is time Davidson College took off its white sheet, extinguished its burning cross,
and entered the twentieth century.

Steven Plaut
Marc Lieberman
Department of Economics
Princeton University

Although as an alumnus I fully recognize the importance of Davidson’s affiliation with the Presbyterian Church, I feel that Davidson
has a duty not only to fulfill its “Christian commitment,” or goals, but also to shape the Church's thinking on
the nature of such goals. If Davidson is to retain its educational status in conjunction with its Church affiliation, it
must attempt to fulfill a leadership role in both areas. Adherence to the policy which resulted in Dr. Linden’s not
teaching at Davidson does not serve the best interests of either the Church or of education, for the policy mimics
the attitudes of the narrowest, most conservative, indeed most racist and reactionary elements within the Church.bigoted elements of that Church.
Clearly, the institution can maintain its Christian commitment, as other church-related institutions of high caliber have succeeded in doing, while
defining that commitment in terms more consistent with academic excellence, academic freedom, and academic responsibility. The current policy remains offensive
both academically and religiously, essentially advancing the causes of both “cloistered virtue” and prejudice. Neither has any place in a
Christian educational community of high standing, and both spring from the indefensible fear of contamination, at best ignoble, at worst
destructive of the educational process, inconsistent with what has always gone on in the best of Davidson classrooms, and inconsistent
with the spirit of Christianity.

I am especially sorry that Davidson lost the services of Dr. Linden in view of the strength and honesty of
his reaction, in this academic job market, to what he accurately describes as Davidson's “morally repugnant, socially anachronistic and scholastically
unwise” tenure policy. I am ashamed of Davidson’s reaction to Dr. Linden’s response, and I urge Davidson’s current students to
attempt to implement changes in Davidson's tenure policy which will reflect the wisdom and courage a truly Christian educational institution
should embody both for its students and its Church. Davidson should never again suffer the ignominy of losing the services
of a highly qualified professor because of a prejudicial hiring and tenure policy.

Dr. Christopher C. Hudgins ’68
Department of English
University of Nevada, Las Vegas

Linden student speaks

Dear Dr. Spencer,

I was very disappointed to read of the controversy surrounding Ronald Linden’s application for a position on the Davidson faculty.
I was in one of Mr. Linden's classes at Princeton University in 1974. On the basis of my experience in
that class, I must say that Davidson would be very fortunate to have Mr. Linden on its faculty. To withdraw
your offer of a faculty position on any grounds would be questionable. To withdraw the offer because of Mr. Linden’s
religious background is a grievous error.

I was recently married in a Presbyterian ceremony by a Presbyterian minister. I respect Davidson’s commitment to education within the
Christian tradition. Nevertheless, I feel that Mr. Linden’s characterization of your tenure policy is a most accurate one—the policy is
“morally repugnant, socially anachronistic, and scholastically unwise.” I hope it is changed.

Charles L. Ballard
Arlington, Virginia

The Davidsonian received ten letters from around the nation in response to the Linden Affair. Space does not permit us
to print them all, but a representative sample is presented here.

Hunter cites counseling crisis

To the Editor:

The personal battle surrounding the non-renewal of Dr. Meredith Hall’s contract next year is a matter which raises some important
issues concerning the relationship between the psychological counselor and administration. Why is Hall being dropped from the staff? Among the
accusations and counter-accusations between Hall and Will Terry, who has sole hiring and firing power of the counseling staff, an
important point has been forgotten: no one has asked the students whom Hall serves whether they think he has done
his job. This fact alone makes one think that we need a better assessment system of our counselors, and that
hiring/firing power should be made more dependent upon this system.

Particularly regarding the procedure for approving withdrawal from an academic course, the counselor’s job of clarifying the student’s emotional life
may be at cross purposes with the administrator's job of “protecting the academic standards of the school.” The counselor wishes
to protect the student; the administrator wishes to test him. This has been a major point of friction between Hall
and Terry. The system as it has worked in the past has victimized the student making the mistake of overloading
himself academically; the mistrust between Hall and Terry complicated the procedure of academic withdrawal resulting in several very painful cases
of students needing academic withdrawal and not getting it. Replacing Hall may solve this problem. But will we be getting
a counselor who can work with students or one who can work with the administration?

Finally, there is no court within the school where the matter can be discussed openly. Regardless of who is right
in this specific case, what hangs in the balance—the freedom and effectiveness of our psychological counseling department—is important enough to
deserve safeguarding with a better evaluation system of counselors, a hiring/firing policy dependent upon that system, and a method for
airing differences between counselors and administration.

Margaret Hunter '79
Trisha Drake ’77
Sally Stow ’77
