As Abbot is on an English professor sabbatical this term and recently sent these reflections on his "down under" stay to The Davidsonian.

We arrived in Australia at Melbourne airport at approximately 3:00 a.m. on Saturday, February 26. Today is April 7. Any remarks based on only a month’s visit will inevitably be superficial, but since Davidson's term ends in May, I can’t wait any longer.

Students earn responsibility

To the Editor:

The dust settles, the lights go up, the ordeal is over. The third in a series of tests has been passed. The student body has proven itself. At the beginning of this term, the administration finally laid down the law. It was decided that too much senseless destruction and irresponsible behavior had taken place and that something had to be done. First came the overreactions, cries to close the Union, to forbid alcohol consumption on campus, etc. Then, after the first wave of hysteria had worn itself out, more mature ideas developed. “Let’s tell the students what we want and see what they do,” became the policy. Meetings were held and handbills were slid under doors. The student body was made aware of the administration’s position and left to do what they would do.

The next week Spring Frolics was forced into the Union. Precautions were taken, but with hundreds of students in a medium of many kegs, the atmosphere was one ripe for misdeeds. The students, however, failed to hang themselves on the rope provided, thus passing the first test. Then came Greek Week with a day at the lake, more kegs of beer, and plenty of water to drown in. Again, no mishaps, no destruction. We had successfully completed the second part of the ordeal. Now, this past weekend in Belk quad the final rite was held. A band, more beer, and the most people yet, in and around four dorms. Once again we passed with flying colors. The Rites of Spring were concluded, and the students stamped grade A mature.

What made the difference? Awareness. The students were made aware of the demands of responsibility on them. They were made aware of how they were expected to act. Before, the administration had been lax in controlling the students, counting on their personal sense of responsibility. The students had been childishly pushing to see how far they could go. Now, it seems, both are aware of their limits and responsibilities.

Bucky Banks '79
Davidson College

My first impression of Australia was that it is disappointingly similar to the United States. It bothers me. Australian TV is almost totally composed of American shows; big hits like Six Million Dollar Man, The Bionic Woman, and Happy Days make it here also. The concert event of the last month in Melbourne was the visit of ABBA. In the high schools, the kids are raised on American popular music, American TV, and American movies, and next to Americans, Australians seem to be the most materialistic nation on the face of the earth. They love their creature comforts and are working hard to get larger refrigerators, dishwashers, washing machines, dryers, and stoves. In other words, our adjustment to life in suburban Melbourne was very easy because it was not an adjustment at all compared to the adjustment that one would have to make in almost any other country in the world.

Prevalent freedom

The countryside is another story. On our weekend trips out of Melbourne, we found a striking difference. There are only 13 million people in Australia and nearly half live in Sydney and Melbourne, the two great cities which compete with each other for national prominence like Hertz and Avis. Sydney is Number One, but Melbourne tries harder. They are building a new Arts Center in Melbourne that will rival Sydney’s famous Opera House. Once you are out of these two cities, you know you are in another world. For long stretches, there are literally no towns, and even within a two-hour drive of Melbourne, there are marvelous beaches and dunes almost deserted except during very hot summer weather. When the surfers come to surf, they park their cars on dirt roads against the dunes; there are no restaurants, motels, or entertainment palaces spoiling the view. At Phillip Island, less than 100 miles from Melbourne, you can see penguins come in from the sea and walk up the beach, bringing food to their young, who are waiting in burrows in the dunes. Koala bears roam free in preserves and pose in gum trees for tourists while quietly eating eucalyptus leaves as camera shutters click.

Open outback

There is a great feeling of freedom here. You know that there is space and that you can get away from your neighbors. What threatens that space is commercial development, and the next fifty years will be crucial ones for Australia. McDonald's is here and so is Colonel Sanders’ Kentucky Fried Chicken, and so is Safeway and K-Mart. Like the tentacles of an octopus, they reach out along the major highways stretching east, north, south, and west. Which way will Australia go: in the direction of ecological protection or consumerism? The students are definitely on the side of ecology. The big issue now is uranium.and all over the campuses at Monash and Melbourne Universities are signs protesting the Premier of Australia. On Uranium, there have been huge rallies in downtown Melbourne. The sixties seem to linger here in an interesting sort of way. Students wear their hair long, and beards, beads, and blue jeans are very popular. They are looking for causes. You can tell by reading the graffiti on the walls: “Lesbians are lovely,” “Law oppresses women,” and “Sisterhood is powerful” suggest the presence of a strong feminist group on campus. The main political thrust is directed against the Governor General’s reappointment of Malcolm Fraser as Prime Minister in November of 1975, an act which did a great deal to stimulate nationalistic feelings in this country. But for the most part, the universities are quiet now because there are no major causes; the main business seems to be study.

Commuter college Monash University, where I am teaching, was founded in 1961 and now has a student population of over 13,000. It is very much a commuter college. Cars pour into the huge parking lots from 8:30 to 10:00 a.m. each morning and pour out again between 4:30 and 6:00 p.m. Most students live at home, as they do throughout Australia. The major universities are located in the large urban centers—Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, and Perth—and there are few residential colleges. They are simply too expensive. The result of this is that a place like Davidson is almost unheard of. I see my students in class, and I find that not only do I have almost no knowledge of them as people but that they don’t know each other. Monash tries to compensate for this by having small classes, and the heart of the system is the tutorial. Nearly all classes here combine lectures and tutorials in a manner quite similar to the Humanities program at Davidson. A student normally spends about three hours a week on a course, and at least one of those is a tutorial involving not more than twelve people. We would call it a discussion group.

Teaching Aussie style 19th Century American Literature, the course I am teaching this semester, requires one lecture and a ninety-minute tutorial for each student. I carry three tutorial groups and the other person teaching the course carries two. Faculty members are usually available in their offices to talk to students during the day, but the commuter system affects faculty as well as students. Everyone goes home at 5:30, and most faculty members live some distance from the campus, and there is very little going on at night to draw them back.

What I like best about the system here is the range of ages and backgrounds in students. The more “mature” students, as they are called, are mixed in with students of normal college age so that it is not unusual in a class of twelve to have three or four who are in their late twenties, thirties, or forties, many of them women who are back to school to finish degrees that will qualify them as teachers in the public schools. The mature students contribute enormously to the discussions and reaffirm my conviction that part of the problem with our discussion groups at home is that people haven’t experienced enough yet to connect emotionally and intellectually with some of the literature. Otherwise, I can see very little difference between the students here and the students in the U.S. I have had three weeks of teaching—Emerson, Hawthorne, and Melville—and have found the responses pretty much on the same level.

Perhaps the most striking difference between my life at Davidson and my life here is that my life here is department-oriented rather than college-oriented. I teach on the seventh floor of a huge twelve-story building with three wings. English occupies the west wing of the seventh and eighth floors. There are about twenty-five full and part-time staff members of the English department, and we teach together, eat lunch together at the staff club, and drink tea together in the afternoon. There is a great feeling of unity within the department, and one hardly gets the feeling that the rest of the university exists. It is simply too big, and its concerns are too separate from those of the department. There is nothing particularly Australian about this; it is simply a fact about big university life.

Difficult studies

It is difficult to be an Australian studying literature in 1977. There is the traditional curriculum emphasizing the history of British literature with particular stress on the older periods, there is the possibility of studying American literature both in survey courses such as the one I teach and in seminars with emphasis on special authors, and there is the relatively new and exciting field of Australian and New Zealand literature which is becoming more and more important here. The “keep-up” one has to read in all these traditions. As one student said to me, “We read your literature, why don’t you read ours?” I had no answer for her.