February 4, 1977

STUDENTS feel fettered by the chains of Midwinter (Irv Wilson) depression.

The Davidsonian

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

The Senate voted in favor of a "bad check" committee. The committee will act as a liaison between the business
community and the students who write illegal checks. Support for the motion was based on the fact that it will
help maintain the college’s “good name.” Bill Peeples (Cannon), head of the effort to organize the committee, said it will
contact the offending student. If this notification does not work, the matter will be turned over to the Dean of
Students Office. The Dean presently handles students’ bad checks.

The Senate was asked to endorse the Dean of Students' practice of withholding a student’s grades until the bad check
is covered. Dana English (Carnegie-Little) said that this policy is an “unnecessary interference in a student’s personal affairs.” Peeples said
this was their only means of enforcement and that it was only used in extreme cases. The motion passed by
the Senate does not include any reference to withholding grades. The practice, however, will continue to be used by the
Dean.

In an effort to have “well-educated Senators,” President Thom Young invited Roger Brown to speak to the Senate. Brown is
in charge of “Dial-a-lumni” for the Living Endowment Fund. “Dial-a-lumni” involves students telephoning alumni to seek money for the Fund.
The effort is scheduled for the second through fourth week of spring term.

Dial-a-lumni puts students into fund-raising campaign

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Approximately 200 students will be phoning Davidson alumni all over the nation during spring term in a campaign to solicit
pledged contributions to the Living Endowment. Called the Student Involvement Committee, the group will duplicate on a massive scale a
similar project undertaken last year by a small group of students who phoned alumni in the Charlotte area.

“The important thing is that we're getting students involved,” says Tom Bernhardt, administrative coordinator of the project. “Other colleges, by
doing the same sort of thing, have found that the students are most knowledgeable about what a school needs and
can therefore better inform alumni about where their money will be used.”

The money raised will go into the general college fund, to be used for operating expenditures and college functions. Bo
Baskin, who helped on last year’s project, said, “I feel like the alumni last year appreciated students calling them; they
got a good chance to hear what was going on at Davidson.”

Students will be calling four nights a week for three weeks at the beginning of spring term; dates for those
nights are March 14-17, 21-24, and 28-31. Sixteen students will dial from 6:30 to 9:30 pm each night. Callers for
each week will be under the direction of two weekly co-chairmen who are Nancy Brown and Mary Gilliam for the
first week, Cliff Hester and Tim Goodell for the second week, and Bo Baskin and Marc Menchell for the third
week.

The committee is looking for people to call one night or more; an outline script will be provided to all
callers. Baskin added that, “Doing this is a great way for students to come to grips with the difficulties of
raising money for college operation. It’s a great way to get involved.”

Bernhardt summed up the importance of the phoning effort by saying, “I feel that students doing this will do more
for Davidson than they realize.”

Mark Rabil, representing the Council on Campus and Religious Life, explained the recent decision on the status of Rusk House.
It was decided to recommend to President Spencer that the house be given to the women’s group.group. He stated that
the freshman group, which was also in contention for the house, has “a good case for victim of the year.”
The Council has established the ideal of: “a movement toward coeducational houses.” They have formulated a “hard core non-discriminatory policy”
that “goes further than Title IX.” He emphasized, however, that the Council will “not actively stimulate integration” of the sexes
on the Court.

The Security Committee is chaired by Hans Watford (Sentelle), and includes Ralph Yielding (Belk), Randy Haines (Belk), Bruce Brown, and
Stuart Bondurant. The purpose of the group is to increase student awareness of the security situation. They plan an “evaluation
of security.” This will include talking to both students and the police about security problems. The committee wants to work
closely with The Davidsonian and the freshman halls to inform students on security matters. Watford stressed the value of members
of the college being aware of “non-college people on campus.” These people should be reported to the police so they
can check the situation. He emphasized that suspicious people should not be confronted by students. Dean Terry, Shaw Smith, and
a police representative will be invited to the next committee meeting.

The Trustee Day, planned for February 14, has been cancelled. Thirteen trustees were invited and seven replied. All who replied
expressed enthusiasm for the idea, but only one could attend. The Senate budget, which contains $3500 and a surplus from
last year's budget, was discussed. The money is available for committee work, including research and the course evaluation booklet. The
purchase of a television for the infirmary is being considered.

Also, two nightly chairmen will be assigned for each night. “Hopefully we can get fraternities, clubs and other campus groups
to provide callers for a night or two and start some friendly competition over pledges received,” said student coordinator Roger
Brown. Calls will be made from the student organization office room in the Union, and sandwiches and beverages will be
provided at 6 pm every night. Every caller also gets to make a free three-minute call to anywhere in the
nation.

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE
Available in Charlotte starting April 2, 1977: 7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O.
Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253.

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS
At Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - boys’ and girls' camps on the coast of North Carolina featuring SAILING,
MOTORBOATING, and SEAMANSHIP plus all usual camping activities including a golf course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer.
30th season. June 7 - August 19. Good opportunities for students who are LOOKING FOR MORE than just another summer
job. Openings for NURSES (RN). Qualifications include excellent character references, ability to instruct in one phase of the camp's program,
and a genuine interest in young people. Good salary; room and board furnished; excellent group-work training and skills development; plus
the opportunity of sharing in a highly purposeful and personally challenging experience. Quick answer upon receipt of letter of application
which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of the camp program in which you are
best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503
