The Davidsonian
April 8, 1977

Housing problems averted; women switch to Cannon
By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

Since enrollment next year will not increase, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls foresees no problems in finding housing for all students in September. Drawings for off-campus houses have been completed, and the lottery for dorm rooms is scheduled for April 18-21.

"Off-campus applications are about as expected," said Nicholls. There will be about 200 students living off-campus next year. "Students can reserve the dorm room they are in now for next year, but very few have taken this option," she said. "Most students hope to do better in the lottery or just don’t want to stay in the same place."

There are a few changes in dormitory assignments for men and women. Freshmen women will be living in Cannon. The Admissions Office expects 103 freshmen women next fall. One hundred and four women can live on the top four floors of Cannon. "The basement will be reserved in case more women enroll than expected. Otherwise, the rooms in the basement will be assigned to upperclass women," said Nicholls.

Freshmen males will be housed in Watts and Richardson. "A buffer zone is needed in case any more applicants enroll or in case there are any transfers, so basement Sentelle will be reserved for the overflow of freshmen males," said Nicholls.

Painting of dorms during the summer is done on a three-year cycle. Belk and Richardson were painted last year. Little, which was supposed to have been done last year, will be painted as soon as school is out. There are also plans to paint...

Women’s house announces plans
By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

"The major reason for starting the house was to establish unity and to give the girls a center," said Holly Gnagey, house manager of Rusk House, the new women’s eating group on Patterson Court. Gnagey, who came to Davidson as a transfer student from Goucher College (Maryland), believes that the women on this campus have a need for some sort of base or outlet. "There are times when you need girlfriends to talk to, and with such a competitive atmosphere, it’s often hard to meet girls. We’re trying to help solve or at least relieve this problem," said Gnagey.

Forty-six women are currently signed to eat at Rusk House next fall. There will be 19 juniors and seniors and 27 sophomores. Gnagey said that the House Officers don’t expect more than two or three more women to sign up for the fall term. They hope that more girls will sign up once they see what the house offers. The officers would take as many as 70 girls and hope to reach this quota by the end of next year. With this larger number, board could be lowered from the current $270 per term.

"There has been a lot of controversy concerning the women’s eating house," said Gnagey. "There’s a whole stigmatism to fight in trying to get people to accept it." Opponents have expressed fear that the house will turn into a sorority. In response, Gnagey said, "It’s not going to be a sorority, nor is it going to be national or selective. The house is to be a good social outlet and will give girls the opportunity to have an option when choosing a house on the Court. It’s only fair that one house out of ten be given to women.

"The house is a joke to some people now, but we are serious. It’s to be a positive force and not a coalition, so I don’t think it threatens anyone." Emphasizing that the house is working to bring people together, Gnagey pointed to a recent ice-cream social and planned Saturday, April 23rd brunch, open to all women on campus. Next year the house will sponsor open brunches every Saturday morning, will allow each woman to have one guest a week, and will encourage members to bring a professor...Sentelle this summer, and his wife to dinner once a month. The relatively high social fee of $35 will be used for such things as band parties and beer & pizza night. Gnagey, who will set up the menus and order the food, explained her plans. There will be a salad bar with every meal with the usual array of lettuce, cucumbers, and carrots as well as alternating items such as mushrooms, avocadoes, and shrimp. 

FOR THE FIRST TIME in its 55-year history, Cannon will house women students. With a salad bar and only one waiter, Gnagey hopes to slow down meals and make mealtimes more relaxing. Lunch will be served from 12:30 until 1:30 pm except on Wednesdays, when serving time will be adjusted so that there are no conflicts with the speakers on women’s issues. The college is supplying funds to help furnish the (Hunter Jennings) house. Ron Scott and Gnagey are currently looking into buying appliances for the kitchen. The house will receive the old round tables from the KA House. Officers are also in the process of hiring two cooks. Presently they have eight applications, including cooks from Slater and the other eating houses.

BSC pulls together blacks; gets Jackson Court house
By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

House number eleven on Jackson Court has recently become the residency of the Black Student Coalition. “There’s only twenty-six of us in a campus of almost 1300,” said Coalition President Pat Hudson. “We’re so spread out...it’s nice to have a place to get together.” Hudson, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., and Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White met at the beginning of the year to discuss things that could be done to attract more black students to the Davidson campus. Offering the Jackson Court house to the Coalition “shows general concern on the part of the administration,” said Hudson.

The Coalition, which sees itself as a social, cultural, and service organization, receives its funds from the Activities Tax Council. Members of the Coalition, now eight years old, plan cultural events not just for black students, but for the entire college community. Formerly, the Coalition shared Lingle Manor with the Art Department. “The department was very anxious to possess all of Lingle. And it was just not a good location for the Black Student Coalition. The black students have needs that a house will help fulfill,” said Dean of Students Will Terry.

The Jackson Court house, formerly a teacher’s residence, is furnished with some recovered chairs from Lingle. A carpet will soon be installed. “We sort of see it as our fraternity house...a place to study, to have regular meetings, and to have parties...a home away from home...a place to go and be with some friends,” said Hudson.

...600 accepted
[Continued from page 1]

accepted 430 this year whereas last year we accepted 500. “So though admissions for men was not as competitive as for women, it was still very competitive. We evaluated people on the basis of the total application, as we always do, consequently, there are some people on the waiting list with fantastic grades and scores because we considered other factors,” White said.

White expects that a little more than half of those accepted will decide to attend Davidson. The fate of those candidates on the waiting list remains undecided. “If more than we expect turn us down and decide to go somewhere else, that suits me fine. I’d be happy to take some of those really fine candidates off the waiting list.”