2 September 10, 1977

Dean’s office takes on Sue Ross

By PAM CAMERRA
Asst. News Editor

“What I’m interested in is making Davidson College a better place for students to grow and learn,” said Sue Ross,
the new Assistant Dean of Students. She will also be a part-time instructor in the English department.

“One of the reasons this job appealed to me was that I am here to help the Dean and be
concerned about the students—how I work that out is up to me. Therefore, I can lean toward my strengths and
interests.

“What drew me to this college in the first place was that it is a fine liberal arts college, large
enough to offer a diversified curriculum and small enough to have a sense of community.”

Ross is not a newcomer to the area. Born in Lillington, N.C., and brought up in Fayetteville, Ross attended Queens
College in Charlotte and often visited the Davidson College campus. She did her graduate work in English at Chapel Hill
and then worked as Assistant Dean of Women for two years.

After teaching at St. Mary’s and Queens College for several years, she returned to Chapel Hill to work on her
doctorate. During a graduate assistantship there, she started researching a book on the journals of Washington Irving.

She taught full-time at Chapel Hill in the English department until 1976. She spent last year living on the beach
at Swansboro, working on her book and relaxing.

Since she started working here two weeks ago, Ross has been busy meeting as many people as possible, participating in
freshmen orientation, and attending numerous meetings. She has already formed opinions concerning some issues on campus.

The idea of freshmen halls has often been criticized because some think it does not give freshmen a chance to
broaden their friendships beyond their hall. Ross, who has met with this year’s hall counselors and has had experience in
dealing with freshman halls, feels that freshman halls are a practical, cohesive unit which give freshmen a feeling of security.

“Freshman year is such a crucial transition year that it is important to have someone who is responsible and concerned,”
she said. She does not approve of large freshman dormitories because they inhibit the assimilation of freshmen into the student
body.

One of her major concerns is the sophomore year. “Suddenly there’s no one particular to care and sometimes you need
someone to go and talk to besides a close friend.” She would like hall counselors to follow up on the
people who were on their freshmen halls.

Ross often visited the campus when she was an undergraduate at Queens. “I think it’s wonderful that girls are at
Davidson. It’s a lot nicer and healthier.” Ross believes that women, like everyone else, should have an equal chance, though
she does not classify herself as a women’s libber.

She sees a problem with Davidson's current male/female ratio. “Sometimes the boys think that all the girls are committed and
say there’s no use in trying to get a date. But there often are a lot of girls not committed
and not dating.” Another problem with the ratio, she says, is that girls often get a false sense of their
own worth since six or seven guys may be after them. “That is not how...it is in the real world,”
she said. “The main thing is for men and women to be friends so that there can be respect between
the two.” She therefore sees a need for a more even ratio.

Subcommittee studies PCC rules
[Continued from page 1]

1) ‘Rushing’ (if allowed), for self-selection, and for ‘pledge-training’ (if needed).
2) Establishing rules for terms of membership on Patterson Court; establishing procedures for termination of a house’s lease due to
financial mismanagement, loss of membership, or violation of regulations; establishing an instrument in the Patterson Court Council to initially handle
violations of regulations.

The Rules Subcommittee will report to the Council on Campus and Religious Life by late fall, and the Council will
decide what regulations to recommend to the President. Carroll emphasizes that the Subcommittee welcomes ideas and comments from any student
or campus organization, and asks that all suggestions be made in writing through the Dean of Students Office, preferably by
September 19.

Ross was hired after last spring’s Christian Tenure controversy and said that the issue did not affect her decision in
coming here. She had mixed feelings when she first read of the controversy in the national papers and said that
she has not as yet had the chance to hear all sides of the story. She said she was surprised
by the fact that Davidson even had such a policy. However, she was encouraged by the way the students, faculty,
administrators, and trustees handled the situation.

Ross has a variety of extracurricular interests. She is extremely active in water sports, especially swimming and boating. She is
also very interested in the theatre. She does some photography, rides horses, and plays guitar. She has traveled through the
United States and twice to Europe.

Studio expansion benefits artists
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Davidson College offers individual studios in Lingle Manor to art students who are “seriously working and need the space,” during
fall term, according to Professor of Art Herb Jackson. Although only three students are using the facility at present, the
building has space to accommodate eight to ten students. These students will have full-time access to the building. Use of
the building is not limited to art majors, Jackson said, but students may not use toxic or flammable materials. He
supplies studios on the basis of need and said students who do not use the facilities will lose the privilege.

Until last spring the Black Student Coalition used two rooms in the lower part of Lingle Manor but now occupy
a house on Jackson Court, freeing the entire house for use by the art department. “As (the art department) grew
we needed more space and (the Black Student Coalition) was never happy there,” said Jackson.

During winter term Professor of Art Doug Houchens teaches basic studio in the building, and in the spring Jackson uses
Lingle for an advanced painting class. The classes taught there create the only disadvantage Jackson sees in using Lingle Manor
for studios.

Mooresville 663-1503
Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
