Campus feels loss

Richey

[Professor of Music David F. Richey died November 16, 1977. Angela Wier and Babette Kissam offered this tribute to their
professor.]

Mr. Richey was one of the first professors we met at Davidson. We grew to love his selfless and devoted
teaching. He was always patient, always generous with his time and talents. He handled our “raucous,” “strident” tones with a
sense of humor (sometimes a stricken grimace), helping us to listen for a beautiful sound. This sensitivity to music and
his compassion for all men was an inspiration. We miss him.

Reid

Frank Reid, who contributed nearly 65 years of service to Davidson College working for the physical plant, died. In his
50 plus years here, he saw every building on the present campus except for six constructed and put in use.
A campus legend claims he had a photographic memory for plumbing and wiring diagrams and could locate any underground pipe
on the campus in seconds. Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze reminisced, “Reid was no ordinary man. His
health and ability were not impaired by his age, and his basic knowledge of mechanical systems throughout the campus was
invaluable.”

Listed adjacent are the positions that are up for election, the current office holders (in case you have questions), and
the number of people elected.

How to file to run:
Go by Will Terry’s office and sign the election notebook and filing statement by Tuesday, Dec. 6th at 4:00 p.m.
Next, attend the all candidates meeting in the Conference Room of the Union at 4:00 p.m. Tuesday, Dec. 6th. Elections
are Tuesday, Dec. 13th.

[Continued from page 1]

four credits to graduate. Because of scheduling problems and academic considerations, she has decided to take a combined total of
five courses winter and spring terms. Bondurant has requested permission to take two courses this winter on the grounds that
she is credits ahead. Upon being informed by Burts that the CRC no longer considers this to be sufficient reason,
Bondurant made a second application in which she stated, “I feel that, based on evidence of my long-range planning, on
sound though suddenly outdated advice, on my good record, and on my being credits ahead, I am justified in my
request.”

Plaza Fit

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503

YMCA kicks off fund drive

The annual YM/YWCA Christmas Gift Fund Drive, which will run from Dec. 5-14, is dedicated to George Reedy, the Davidson
student who was killed while teaching in Kenya on Oct. 21. Funds raised will be used principally for scholarships. YMCA
President Jay Silver believes that the Christmas Drive will be a success.is an "opportunity for students to express a concern
for people who have certain needs at a time when giving characterizes our celebration of Christmas." Volunteers will canvass every
dorm room, play Santa Claus at the Post Office during the 10 a.m. hour, and sponsor a coffee and coke
auction. The fall fund drive was moderately successful with about $1200 being raised. Though the drive netted considerably less than
in previous years, according to Silver, students traditionally have given about five dollars each.

Presbyterians drawn back

Davidson students eager to return early from Christmas break will have an opportunity to attend the Presbyterian student conference sponsored
by Davidson Christian Fellowship. The five-day convocation beginning Dec. 27 will be modeled after similar Inter-Varsity Conferences. Seniors Bob Morrison
and Bob Cathey conceived of the idea last spring. With the help of fellow DCF members, they have organized a
major event that will involve over 200 people coming from all over the South. Various dormitories and homes will house
the guests. According to Cathey, "we wanted to help relationships grow between college students and the older members of the
Presbyterian Church." He explains that some formerly unchurched students become active in college Inter-Varsity groups. It is the conference’s objective
to help these students "move to the center of the church." DCF has been fortunate to be able to draw
a number of excellent resource personnel to lead the various seminars on spiritual life, ethics, campus ministry, and church operation.
Though the event has been planned for Presbyterians, students of all denominations are welcome.

Justified in my request for a two-course load,” Bondurant has expressed concern that this change in practice is "a discouragement
to deviate from the 4-year, 3-course a term pattern." It provides an initial stumbling block for the student, she believes.
Bondurant says, "I encourage an individual assessment by the Curriculum Committee which would include an investigation into casualness or superficiality
of a student’s reasons." She does not feel that a student should be told at the outset that a certain
reason will not be accepted as adequate. Zimmermann, a member of the CRC, has stated that he feels past academic
performance and demonstration of responsibility are not sufficient reasons to justify taking two courses. "The reason must be applicable to
this term," Zimmermann said. Extra lab work or participation in an internship program would, in his opinion, be adequate reasons.
Desire to concentrate on two difficult courses would not be. Zimmermann feels that since most courses are designed for students
taking two additional courses, allowing students to concentrate on a fewer number of courses would be an unfair advantage.

Burts feels that this change "reflects a different view of the academic program." He thinks that the Davidson program is
now being seen in terms of its continuity rather than as an accumulation of course credits. Zimmermann has expressed agreement
with this view, stressing the value of "participation in the whole complex of academic life." This view of the academic
program expressed by Burts and Zimmermann is, according to Zimmermann, based on faculty and curriculum assumptions. Any educational institution, he
feels, has a certain paternalistic aspect. "I must try to act as an interpreter of the policy of the institution."
Bondurant agrees that Davidson offers a good opportunity for students to take a variety of courses. However, she does not
feel that students should be "mothered." Students, she feels, are mature enough to make intelligent decisions using forethought and planning,
drawing on advice from faculty advisors.
