April 22, 1977

TRI BUEHNE will perform "Kafka’s Peter" at 8 pm in the 900 Room.

GEORGE KELISCHEK will demonstrate his hand-crafted instruments Friday from 2 to 4 pm.

CATHERINE LIDDELL and Robert Strizich will speak on the prison system April 25th and 26th.

Communications gap plagues D.C.
By JASON NOBLE
Staff Writer

One of the reasons for attending a small liberal arts college such as Davidson is the opportunity for establishing close
personal ties between student and faculty. To what extent does this opportunity exist? Remarks about fellow students brown-nosing rather than
socializing are frequently heard, and if one attends a party given by a professor, the dialogue revolves around the professor’s
specialization as much as any type of normal spontaneous dialogue. Is there a definite and natural unsurpassable gulf between students
and professors, or are all involved merely playing pre-programmed (safe) roles, unwilling to just relax and comfortably relate to one
another?

Asked how he feels about relations to students, Herb Jackson doesn’t "see why they should feel inhibited at all. In
most cases, the inhibitions are the students’." Herb further commented that "if I go to a lot of student functions,
there is an immediate reaction. People look like I’m invading or something."

Professor David C. Grant observed that "as long as professors are required to give labels to students’ performances, there is
a unique relationship." This aside, he "would like to see a more informal degree of organization" within student-faculty activities. Several
professors expressed a desire to reinstitute a Sunday open house policy. Professor Charles Lloyd felt it "added something that we
don’t have now." Professor Locke White also said he "would like to see a renewal in the tradition of faculty
open houses every Sunday evening," adding that during his student years at Davidson "it meant a great deal" to him.

Some professors, however, felt otherwise to such a pre-scheduled activity. Professor Gordon Michaelson explained that there’s "too much emphasis on
planning to be spontaneous" and that it’s "unrealistic to suppose that some great familiarity will develop. In most cases, when
it does, it’s spontaneous, natural, and unplanned." Professor Nutt also commented in this vein, stating that relationships "should be natural,
not forced." He felt that just this type of relaxed interaction existed with most of his majors and that there
was "no gulf between majors" and himself.

Many professors certainly try to narrow the distinction between themselves and their students. Professor Donald Kimmel has several social affairs
at his house each year and is "strongly in favor of doing any formal or informal thing that can be
done to break down the social distinction between student and faculty. We’re here for interaction with the students." Professor Kimmel
felt the need for "more organized student-teacher affairs," a point echoed by Professor Bryan when he says it "wouldn’t hurt
for some kind of promotion to go on." Professor Bryan sensed that some students are afraid to initiate social interaction
with their professors.

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center, Mooresville
663-1503

Add a new international SEMESTER
The S.S. Universe sails Sept. 7, 1977, on a circle-Africa voyage. Join us.
FREE COLOR VIEWBOOK
Write or phone INSTITUTE
Attn: UG DivisionVarious activities, Professor Bryan felt no uncomfortableness playing squash or tennis with his students. Professor Michaelson also didn’t
see any reason for not being able to go fishing or play tennis with members of the student body. Perhaps
a major reason for any lack of interaction results from the problem of time consumption. Professor Polley explained, both for
himself as well as other professors, the obvious need to spend time with family, friends, and just by himself. Professor
Michaelson expounded on this, noting his “hours out of office are tied up with my own research.” Another aspect that
helps to disrupt opportunities for normal socializing between professors and students is the whole stigma involved with brown-nosing. This appears
to be an imagined excuse on the students’ part rather than any existing truth. Professor Kimmel stated that talking with
one’s professor “doesn’t pick up points.” Professor Polley felt it’s “fairly easy to detect” any grade-grubbing attempts. The only way
he believed socializing could affect grades was that knowing a student better, it would be easier to give him the
benefit of the doubt.

What are the students’ sentiments regarding their relationships with their professors? Terry Butler commented, “in general, most professors make you
feel like you can come to them anytime.” As to whether or not students and professors can operate on an
equal social level, Bill Holladay explained, “There’s usually a line which you don’t go. Where that line stands varies from
student to student and from professor to professor.” Holladay did feel that “there is very little to the ‘God to
worm’ feeling.” Thomas Niblock expressed that “it’s very important for students and professors to be together on an informal basis,”
adding that “there’s a lot of value in informal contact.” Some students, such as Bill Burkholder, “would like to see
more programs that would force both student and teacher into pleasant extracurricular activities so that they can get to know
each other outside of an academic framework.” The majority sentiment is one of desirousness for more informal gatherings between students
and professors. However, it would be ridiculous to feel compelled to form close bonds between professors and students merely because
of any social situation. Professor Michaelson doesn’t “think professors find their pals in the student body.” And Professor Lloyd feels
that perhaps society “overemphasizes a kind of hypocritical intimacy that can be very shallow.”

The entire issue of student-professor relationships is only an issue because of the distinction felt between the two by each
party. It’s questionable just how natural this separation actually is. Brian Jacobs feels “professors in my mind are just people”
and perhaps it’s time both groups realized this. Herb Jackson best sums this idea up when he says that those
involved “spend too much time defining themselves as student and faculty and not just people.”
