The Davidsonian

February 4, 1977

By JOHN HEDRICK
Staff Writer

The North Carolina Public Interest Research Group is presently conducting its survey of off-campus students for its upcoming housing guide.
Someone should be calling each house within the next week for information regarding residents’ rental situations. If your off-campus house
hasn’t been contacted by next Friday, please inform Kathy McLendon (B 468, 892-3060) so she can include it in the
survey.

A panel of experts on prisons and their reform convened on January 13th. Present were Richard Urbanic of the N.C.
Department of Corrections, John Campbell, head of the Prison Grievance Committee, and Jeff Campbell, director of ECO, the ex-convicts organization
in Charlotte.

Each participant gave his 15-minute presentation and then opened the floor to questions. Everyone agreed that the prison system punishes
instead of rehabilitating, but the panelists disagreed on remedies for the problems.

Jeff Campbell recommended that all but the hard-core malcontents be handled somewhere other than prison because of the dehumanizing effects
of confinement. Dr. Urbanic suggested building more facilities to relieve the overcrowding and to upgrade the existing units. John Campbell
advocated an increase in health, recreational, and educational opportunities.

All, however, stressed that prison should be viewed as a part of an overall system of justice that includes society
as a key link. They emphasized that anything done in a part of the system will have effects on the
entire system’s ultimate outcome.

The next event in the prison reform series will be the appearance on campus of Jessica Mitford, author of Kind
and Usual Punishment: The Prison Business, all day on March 24th.

At the upcoming Southern PIRG Regional Conference, the Governing Council of the National PIRG’s Clearinghouse and Educational Fund will meet.

After several years of intensive planning, the National PIRG Clearinghouse was formally established by the various state PIRGs and CAGs
attending the National PIRG Conference at Minneapolis, Minn., in August 1976.

The Clearinghouse is to serve as an information and resource center to draw the member PIRGs closer together. It is
presently located in Oakdale, Iowa, under the supervision of Iowa PIRG whose director has pledged his support and group’s facilities.

Each member group of the Clearinghouse has one person on the Governing Council, which is in charge of the overall
organization. This group meets twice a year to map out general policy and entrusts the Executive Committee, the Chairperson, Secretary,
and Treasurer to execute their judgments as well as make decisions in their absence.

Funding is provided by each member PIRG or CAG in the amount of one percent of its yearly budget. (North
Carolina’s share is $300 since our budget is $30,000). Add to this a Comprehensive Educational Training Act (CETA) grant for
the director Marc Baer, and the total budget is $22,500.

This area of funding is expected to be a source of much discussion at the upcoming meetings. Most feel that
the present funding mechanism is self-limiting and too small to run a national organization.

Also on the agenda is a proposal for research and joint action. This proposal, known as the National PIRG project,
would make PIRG visible as a national entity as well as give it the capacity to lobby on issues with
the information gathered from the various states.

The National PIRG project would increase the organization’s effectiveness, since many problems that are confronted can only be solved at
the national level. Other problems then arise, most notably what projects are chosen and the possible new location of the
Clearinghouse.

Mark Dunlea of New York PIRG is Chairperson of the Clearinghouse. He and others across the continent will be at
Duke University from March 4 to 6.

PEREGRINE HOUSE IS NOW OFFERING

PIZZA

STARTING THURSDAY NIGHT
BASIC CHEESE PIZZA

9 inch- $2.10 12 inch- $3.00 16 inch- $4.20

EXTRAS

REAL BEEF, SAUSAGE, DANISH HAM, ANCHOVIES, PEPPERONI OR MUSHROOM

9 inch- 50¢ each 12 inch & 16 inch- 75¢ each

ONIONS, BELL PEPPER, ALFALFA SPROUTS, & EGGPLANT

9 inch- 25¢ for each extra 12 inch & 16 inch- 40¢ for each extra

EXTRA SPECIAL VEGETARIAN PIZZA

ONIONS, BELL PEPPER, ALFALFA SPROUTS & EGGPLANT
9 inch- $3.00 12 inch- $4.00 16 inch- $5.25

HERE OR TO GO

Delivery to your door coming very soon

892-8686
