The Davidsonian — 

Masako Yanagita, concert violinist, will perform Wednesday, April 13. Born in Tokyo, she started her violin studies at the age of seven. She has since won prizes in competitions around the world and has received outstanding critical acclaim. Theodore Strongin of The New York Times says about Masako, "Her concentration is intense, her tone is luminous, she has a foolproof technique... she gets right to the core of the music. In addition, she appears to be music at all times."

Yanagita has toured successfully as a concert soloist throughout the United States and the Far East. She also performs sonata recitals with her husband, pianist Abba Bogin. Bogin claims expertise as a pianist, a conductor, and a musical director for 12 Broadway musical shows and 70 musical shows in stock and road productions. Both Yanagita and Bogin have received numerous accolades.

David Lean started directing films in the early 1940s, focusing on relatively modest undertakings such as adaptations of Noel Coward (Blithe Spirit, Brief Encounter) and Charles Dickens (Great Expectations, Oliver Twist). Then in 1957, he turned to large-scale spectaculars like The Bridge on the River Kwai. Lean’s second such film was Lawrence of Arabia, this week’s Pop Film presentation.

The film is about T.E. Lawrence, a British writer and adventurer who became a legend through his efforts in the Middle East. Initially attracted to the region as an archaeologist, he went there shortly before World War I. During the war, he became involved in the Arabians’ fight for independence from the Turks (allies of Germany and enemies of England). He returned to Arabia several times after the war and embarked on a writing career, which included a translation of The Odyssey and an autobiographical epic called Seven Pillars of Wisdom.

Lawrence of Arabia was filmed by Lean in the Middle East at a cost of upwards of $11 million. The screenplay was by Robert Bolt, who also collaborated with Lean on his later epics, Doctor Zhivago and Ryan’s Daughter. Peter O'Toole plays the title role in his first major film; the supporting cast includes Anthony Quinn, Alec Guinness, Jose Ferrer, and Omar Sharif. The film won seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Cinematography.

Senator William Fulbright will speak at Davidson on Thursday, April 14, and Friday, April 15. For details, see the Announcement Sheet.

Twenty percent of the Davidson College faculty were once undergraduates here. Unsure whether cries of inbreeding or signs of idealism should spring forth upon realization of this curiosity, one should perhaps take refuge in one question: Just what is it that these professors see in Davidson that lures them back to the place of their halcyon undergraduate days?

“I was drafted,” said Herb Jackson, “to fill a temporary gap in the department. I guess I came back because I had been to Davidson and knew that there was a lot that could be done with art here.”Basic thing was that BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. there is more freedom, intellectual freedom, than anywhere else. I also knew and understood the student-faculty relations and religious commitment,” stated Dr. J.H. Ostwalt. Dr. Joseph Drake echoed these sentiments: “The emphasis here is on minimum research and maximum teaching. There is little pressure but encouragement to produce articles done on your own initiative and on your own time.” Most, who return had never considered coming back to Davidson. “They came looking for me,” says Dr. Locke White, Jr. in summarizing the general trend among those who returned. “You know your way around,” said Dr. Hansford Epes. “Yet although GENERAL CONTRACTORS * P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C. M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary I’m not sorry for having come back, there is a disadvantage in not having diversity of educational experiences and institutions.” This “inbreeding” or lack of diversity was the subject of criticism by the Southern Association Visiting committee in 1965-66. “Fifteen to twenty years ago, the percentage was over forty percent,” said Frontis Johnson, Vice President of Academic Affairs. “This criticism stems from a feeling that some, though not the majority, are hesitant to change, the older alumni being sentimentally opposed.” “Perhaps having been to Davidson makes some decisions harder. For example in the doing away with the fraternity system which was a meaningful part of my college life,” said Dr. M.B. Stroud. “Even if the change is for the better, the way we did things has some merit.” Dr. Thomas Clark expressed a similar conflict in decision, “I have a confession. I was one of the very small percentage who voted against the coeds. Because of the tradition, because of the past. I just couldn’t imagine girls here. Yet it has not made any difference, in fact, coeds have added more excitement to classes.” “I really don’t think it has anything to do with where you graduate,” contradicted Dr. Joseph Drake. “You get used to something, like it that way, and have a hard time seeing the value of change.” Yet with the demise of the fraternity system as it was and the abolishment of compulsory vespers, a majority of professors have noticed a decrease in friendliness among students. “We never get together anymore,” said Dr. Charles Ratliff. “And there is a loss of the small community of friendliness. It was an unwritten rule when I was a student, we never met anyone without speaking.” Dr. Locke White voiced a similar opinion: “Compulsory vespers and chapel were the common experience among students that is just not present now. As a result, there is a marked difference in the community feeling at Davidson.” In expressing concern over the PRESENTS: OMAR SHARIF and PETER O’TOOLE in LAWRENCE OF ARABIA “THE MOST VISUALLY STUNNING MOVIE EVER MADE!” FRIDAY & SATURDAY 8:00 ONLY $1.00