2 The Davidsonian October 6, 1986

Graduates beat others

By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

Ah, yes, graduation. Presently, it looms over our heads as the culmination of our halcyon undergraduate days. Yet, the aura
of the new graduate must fade as he faces the inevitability of the future with two alternatives: finding a job
or delving deeper into the realms of academia in graduate school.

Many graduates feel that their experiences in extracurricular activities were the most advantageous aspect of coming to Davidson. “Of course
there was a compromise, for Davidson cannot offer a vast selection of courses,” said Mark Deaton '76. “But I figured
that I could do more there with greater access to different organizations.” Deaton, after attending the University of California at
Berkeley for ten months on a Rockefeller fellowship, is now the associate pastor of a church outside New Orleans. “There
were a lot of juxtapositions at Berkeley from Davidson. Yet, I had prepared myself well for Berkeley in that through
my courses and work on The Davidsonian, I learned to write and organize my thoughts well.”

The development of writing skills also proved to be advantageous for John MacArthur '77, who now serves as a legislative
correspondent for Senator Heinz in Washington, D.C. “One of the most important things is to come out of school with
some degree of confidence in your ability to express yourself well on paper. It was a prerequisite for my job.”

John Munce '76 echoed these sentiments: “Let’s face it, a diploma is just a piece of paper. What I did
at Davidson was to develop my speaking and writing skills and my understanding of the way institutions work.” Munce, now
a placement officer at the College of Charleston, became interested in the job through work on a Life/Work planning book
with Deaton and Ken Wood. “It’s a matter of combining experiences you get in developing academic skills as well as
in making use of the community there,” Munce added. “From then on, I have had to translate my experiences there
to what I do now.”

For Bob Grizzard '77, “Everything I learned as a jack of all trades at Davidson has been invaluable.”

GOLDEN '77 talks about what it’s like after Davidson. [See PAST, page 11] (Hunter Jennings)

Woods advises information gathering, not job hunting

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Want a job? It’s not easy. According to Ken Wood, Director of Experiential Programs and Placement, the most important thing
students should do is start early. Wood's philosophy is students should divorce job hunting from information gathering. He says, “Too
many students are uptight about making a decision about their careers. First, they should think of things which excite them,
look at what they have enjoyed in the past.”

“The first jobs out of Davidson will be determined by enthusiasm and interest. That’s how careers get built,” he continues.
Wood believes a student should start thinking about his career before he becomes a senior. He suggests extern means toward
decision-making and gaining contacts. Along with experience, Wood adds information gathering to the process of getting a job. “Identifying the
persons who will hire you,” he says. “Find out as much as you can about the organization.”You can show them
how you can help them.” Wood feels the resume is the least important part of the process. He suggests a
proposal rather than a resume. “What it shows is you’ve done your homework.” He concludes, “Talk to people who are
doing interesting things. Don’t ask the typical questions about the job market, what’s available, etc. Ask the question, ‘What do
I want?’”

Grad schools cut applicant numbers
By CATHERINE LANDIS

So how does one get into graduate school? Hight outlines a seven-point procedure:

1. DECIDE whether you want to go to graduate school. This includes an evaluation of whether you are a competitive
student or not and whether or not you can afford it. If you cannot afford it, you must determine whether
or not you could qualify for a scholarship or financial aid.

2. DETERMINE to which schools you would like to apply. Find out as much as you can about those schools
by talking to people in the program, reading the catalogues, and reviewing the application process.

3. WRITE the university for an application. Make sure you follow directions carefully. Some universities require recommendations, some prefer not
to receive them; some desire an interview, others are bothered by one, etc. If the university requires recommendations, make a
list of those whom you ask. If the university loses one, you will know whom you asked.

4. TAKE the appropriate tests (testing registration forms and information are in Dr. Hight’s office). For a Ph.D.—GRE, Law School—LSAT,
Med. School—MCAT, Dental School—DAT, MBA—GMAT.

5. IF the university looks favorably on an interview, set up an appointment. Medical schools, for instance, rely heavily on
it; most law schools do not. Go into an interview with at least two good questions to separate yourself from
the mass of applications.

6. WAIT. Dr. Hight feels getting into graduate school is an individual matter. “I don't think any one school has
absolute standards for admissions. They look at the package.” He continues, “Students may have to do a little more searching
now than those did in the past. But life is worth a little reflection and research.”

It is not as easy to get into graduate school as it used to be according to Dr. William Hight,
Student Counselor. He says, because there are so many students applying, most graduate schools are doing one of two things:
1. Restricting initial admission, or 2. Letting students enter, then letting them knock each other out. “Graduate schools just don’t
want to be caught with a large number of Ph.D.’s that they can’t get rid of because of the lack
of jobs,” Hight says.

Hight cites one example of the top job market. Last year the Davidson English department advertised an opening. They received
300 applications. One member of the department said that ten years ago the department could have thrown out 275 of
those applications. Last year, however, 295 were really qualified. “I'm as pessimistic as I can be so the student will
know what he’s up against,” Hight comments. “But if a student really wants to go, I say go ahead.” Hight’s
policy is to present the facts, then let the student make up his own mind.
