December 16, 1977

BY-PASS N.C. 73 will route truck traffic around Davidson.

(Greg Strader) WDAV Director Donald C. Lovell.

By-pass to reroute trucks

By: STEPHEN GOLD

Heavy truck traffic through Davidson residential and business communities, causing innumerable complaints, has led to the construction of a by-pass route around the area.

By-pass N.C. 73 will start its two-mile loop around the community at Furr Road, this side of Huntersville. It will connect with N.C. 16, and then meet I-77.

It will be a primary road, with maximum highway speed limits.

For the past two decades, since I-85 opened, trucks moving south have cut west on 73, rambling through Davidson to reach the west end of the spliced state highway.

This maneuver, through small towns and winding roads, was a long ten-mile drive for the truckers.

After nearly 20 years of complaints, Davidson Mayor Tom Sadler, who has been active with the issue since it first arose, says, “Truck traffic has been a nuisance to us. Our roads weren't meant for trucks.”

Also, trailers and car-towed boats, traveling to Lake Norman, started utilizing the community roads.

Finally, then commissioner and Davidson graduate H. Perrin Anderson ’56 started working last year on the by-pass.

“Anderson was a great help,” continues Sadler. “He helped us like no commissioner had before.”

What Anderson managed to do was move the project up five years, from a 1983 deadline to a 1978 one.

The by-pass might take a little time to become helpful, though.

“It may not solve all of our ills—it’s kind of hard to get through a truck driver’s head sometimes. He may want to keep coming through here, but eventually he’ll find out the straight route is better.”

Other people Sadler feels helped out are retired geography professor J.W. Reed, and Director of the Physical Plant Grover Aetz.

Sadler remembers a truck a few years back rounding the corner of Concord and Main: “That trailer just ripped the top completely off of (a resident’s) Chevy. It was a new car, too.”

For so many years the trucks have kept people awake at night, and torn up the streets.

“It’s been a long time. The hard part was just getting someone to listen to us.”

New year sees new face

[Continued from page 1]

in the election.

Davidson was going to have two fine advisors no matter how the election turned out.

Advice from other upperclassmen and help from the freshmen on their halls went a long way toward making their campaign successful.

Their first job will be to plan for the selection of hall counselors for next year.

Sophomores Noelle McHugh and Anne Woods emerged from Wednesday's run-off as the editors for the 1978 Wildcat Handbook.

“We're really pleased with the outcome,” McHugh said. “Anne and I hope to follow up the previous Handbooks with an even better one.”

Work on the new Handbook will begin right away, she added.

Union. Pres. - My Jo Clark
Social Comm. Chairman - David Barnard
Co-Curricular Chairman - Amanda Hall
YOA Pres. - Glen Darbyshire
YO Vice Pres. - Bonnie Wright
YO Sec. - Beth Dubose
YO Treas. - Tom Niblock
Freshman Advisor - Doug Horn
Davidsonian Editor - Nancy Schronichie
Quips and Cranks Editor - Philip Duncan
Miscellany Editor - Steve Cline
Wildcat Handbook Editor - Lana Sims
Patsy Daniels - Gary Hart
Noelle McHugh - Anne Woods

Staff Writer

High power coming soon?

Davidson radio station WDAV plans to go to high power sometime during “the spring or early summer” according to WDAV Station Manager Carrington Thompson.

$70,000 is the initial requirement needed to purchase the necessary equipment to boost the station's power. The station has applied for a federal grant which is currently under consideration.

WDAV plans to launch a fund-raising drive after the first of the year. Lovell stated that the station would contact “cultural, media, and educational leaders” in Statesville, Mooresville, Concord, and Salisbury for their advice as well as financial support.

After the beginning of the year, WDAV will begin broadcasting on a high power schedule.

Lovell indicated that this will mean “increasing classical, verbal, and children’s broadcasting.” He went on to add that future possibilities include syndicated programming, such as concert series by major symphony orchestras, the taping of faculty and student recitals, and the productions of forums.

Fellows add new Trustees

The N.C. Fellows Program now has several former Fellows who have gone through their educational process and are now in the position of serving as Trustees, according to Professor of Psychology and N.C. Fellows advisor John Kello.

In the past, the Trustees have been mainly local and regional businessmen who have been involved principally in overseeing and providing the budget. The addition of these new Trustees, however, has given them the opportunity to work on formulating some standard guidelines for the program.

Until the program has these new guidelines, Dr. Kello stated that they have been asked to “hold off” on admitting upperclassmen. He went on to add, however, that this year, for the first time, transfer students are competing in the program.

In the future, if upperclassmen are allowed to join the program, they will probably be selected by the same process as the freshmen are, with preference given to sophomores then juniors.

This year, 72 freshmen submitted applications and are currently going through screening interviews. On the basis of their applications and evaluations by their interviewers, 24 will be selected as finalists. These final 24 will spend the weekend of Jan. 13-14 undergoing intensive interviews and around 10 will be chosen as Fellows.

Hearing Committee

Juniors
Percy Badham
Adtha Sanford
Bonnie Wright

Sophomores
Laura Cates
George McLaugh
Betsy Thomas

Freshmen
Greg Barnard
Susan Eglin
Lindsay Roberts

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE

Cup conservation rings CROP $69.88

Conservation efforts drastically cut the use of cups at Slater and services last week. Because $2.28 were saved, Slater Director Ron Scott will donate $69.88 to CROP.