September 16, 1977

The Davidsonian

Eight join existing order

Fresh Faces

By LYMAN COLLINS News Editor and PAM CAMERRA Asst. News Editor

Freshmen are not the only new faces on campus. This year Davidson hired eight new full-time faculty members. With a
wide range of interests and fresh ideas, they are eager and energetic in pursuing their academic goals. They come to
Davidson from all over the eastern United States and one even hails from France.

Jean-Pierre Foubert
Visiting Professor of French

Jean-Pierre Foubert comes to Davidson on an exchange program from the University of Montpellier. This is his first visit to
the United States. Foubert is impressed with the intimate atmosphere at Davidson. He explained that at Montpellier his classes often
had as many as 200 students, making personal contact impossible. “I can speak here with every professor and meet with
every student I want to. It is very easy and contacts are very good,” he said. “In France it’s not
the same. It’s impossible to speak with the students.”

Foubert, who brought his wife and daughter with him, said that he had visited New York, Washington, Richmond, and Williamsburg
on his way to Davidson. “New York was just like it appears on the postcards and films in France; it
was exactly like I expected.” He expressed surprise and delight with the museums in New York and Washington. “It’s funny,
I used to think that the best French paintings were in France, but they are in the States.”

Foubert has found that France has a great misconception about American cooking. “I thought as many French do that American
cooking was hamburgers. But in Williamsburg, I found much American cooking was very good,” he explained.

Foubert teaches sociology in France and finds it very interesting to observe American lifestyles close at hand. “I have found
that the Americans, along with the English, are more gracious and welcoming than the French, who tend to be more
reserved,” he commented.

Foubert enjoys sailing and has been out on Lake Norman a few times. He also enjoys films and said that
he had seen most of them in France but he would see them again in order to improve his English.
Summing up his delight with Davidson, he said, “In Davidson, I can relate.”

Kay Smith

“Being female and having red hair really makes you stick out like a sore thumb,” said Kay Smith, new professor
of mathematics. Smith, 27, did her undergraduate work at Bucknell and graduate studies at Yale. This is her first full-time
teaching position. “I’m learning that I still have a lot to learn but I’m really enjoying teaching.”

Smith came to Davidson for a number of reasons. “While visiting here in February I was very impressed by the
congeniality of the faculty and their interest in students. I felt this was a place where I could learn and
where I could make a contribution. I favor a liberal arts education and feel that this is the environment in
which I can best function. Another factor was that people seemed to know what Davidson could and could not offer.
There seems to be a well-defined sense of purpose at this school.”

Smith lived all her life in the northeast and was interested in living in another part of the country so
Davidson’s location also affected her choice. “So far I have no complaints. I've been impressed by the friendliness and southern
hospitality. Davidson seems to be a comfortable and pleasant place to live.” Her only reservation was the social problems that
she might encounter. “The community is very couple-oriented and for a single woman that might be a bit of a
problem. It’s difficult to start out new anywhere but at least it makes you conscious of the friendship-making process.”

Smith was hired before the Christian tenure controversy and did not reconsider her decision to come here. “Davidson College is
here, I think, to raise the religious consciousness and religious values of students and not preach doctrine. It’s healthy to
have people with other views. Therefore I was glad to see the policy changed.”

Smith is especially interested in music. She plays the violin and enjoys listening to classical music. She also likes to
cook and knit and her athletic interests include swimming, cycling, and jogging. “Right now I am still working on my
dissertation on mathematical logic but I’m looking forward to studying some religion and philosophy.” She has been a Quaker for
seven years.

Robert Myers

Robert Myers, the new professor in the Department of Sociology, looks at the world through different eyes than most people.
“I am a cultural anthropologist,” explained Myers. “By studying primitive and modern people,A cultural anthropologist tries to put the human
role into perspective. Myers is the first full-time anthropologist Davidson has ever had. He is not a newcomer to the
community, though. Born in Newport News, Va., Myers attended Davidson from 1964-68. "I was here when there was still required
chapel and vespers, when freshmen had to wear beanies, and when there were no coeds. It’s really different to be
on this side of the desk and call faculty members by their first name."

Not knowing exactly what he wanted to study, Myers went on Davidson’s JYA program to Marburg. "That trip really helped
crystallize my interest in anthropology because I had the chance to travel and see a lot of different people. Junior
year abroad was one of the most rewarding experiences I ever had."

Myers did his graduate studies at Chapel Hill. He lived a year in the West Indies with his family doing
a community study on the effects of emigration. He has taught part-time at Chapel Hill, N.C. State, and Duke and
spent last year studying genetics, biostatistics, and epidemiology at Chapel Hill. "I came back to Davidson because it’s a good
school and if you were to compare Davidson with any other school in the country, it would compare very favorably.
The people are friendly and, most importantly, it’s a community, something you do not find at very many other schools."

Myers is interested in all kinds of sports including jogging, handball, and sailing. He is married and has two sons,
Andrew and Christopher, ages 6 and 8. "We’re a close-knit family and enjoy taking trips together or going on picnics."

Myers is also teaching part-time at Barber Scotia through December. He is teaching Human Origins and Cultural Anthropology this term
and will be teaching Anthropology of the South, Anthropology of Medicine, and two introductory sociology courses in winter and spring.

Randy Nelson

After teaching at the University of Louisville, Randy Nelson returned to his native North Carolina to fill a position in
the English Department here. In his academic field, which is American Literature, Nelson has a continuing interest in Mark Twain
and Henry David Thoreau (whom he emphatically explains pronounced his name like the word "Thorough"). One of his pet projects
is a book he is compiling called Amazing Facts, which are interesting sidelights on literature and history. "It’s not so
low class as mere trivia," he said. "You can get across a fairly deadly piece of theory fairly easily with
some of these facts."

Nelson was originally a landscape architect major at North Carolina State University when his interest in these amusing anecdotes convinced
him his true field was English. He continued his studies at Princeton where he received his doctorate.

Nelson had already been hired by the College when the Christian tenure controversy made national headlines. He admitted that the
news caused him some concern but he was confident the issue would be resolved. "Davidson traditionally had been a liberalizing
influence on the community around it and I was sure it would not keep."

Nelson’s outside interests include swimming, horticulture, and collecting old books. He has been impressed with the friendliness of the Davidson
College community and was pleased at the "lack of an adversary relationship" between students and faculty. "My wife and I
deliberately chose communities," explained Nelson, and he indicated they were happy with their decision. For his initial impression of Davidson,
Nelson concluded that it was "a healthy place to be."

Louis Ortmayer

New professor of Political Science, Louis Ortmayer concentrates his academic interests on international comparative studies. His specialties include German politics
and Eastern European relations in general. Ortmayer comes to Davidson from the Political Science department at St. John’s University in
Minnesota, where he taught for the past two years. "I was drawn to Davidson by the quality of the school
and by the fact that there is more diversity here than in staid and regional Minnesota."

He was impressed by the international scope of the department. "International Politics are much more in the mainstream at Davidson."

Ortmayer completed his undergraduate work at the School of International Studies at Denver. He also lived two and a half
years in Bonn, where he did research for his dissertation on German-Polish relations. Ortmayer expressed satisfaction with the "strong community
atmosphere" at Davidson. A strong advocate of study abroad, Ortmayer also appreciates the importance placed on international education. "When I
was an undergraduate at Yale I was discouraged from studying abroad. I think, though, that it can be one of
the most rewarding experiences of your undergraduate years."

Coming from St. John’s, where there was never more than ten percent [see FACULTY, page 7]
