October 7, 1977

The Davidsonian

By-law controversy did not end last spring

The controversy over the Christian Tenure by-law is not over. The trustees will vote tomorrow on the amendment. They have at least two documents before them: one proposed by the Executive Committee of the Trustees and one recommended by the faculty. (The documents were printed in last week’s The Davidsonian.)

The decision cannot be viewed as a dispute over wording; it is a dispute over policy. In our view, the proposed trustee amendment does not adequately change the old by-law for three reasons:

1. The amendment reads, “The President is authorized to recommend for appointment as others and Faculty members non-Christian persons of genuine spirituality...” What is “genuine spirituality?” The ambiguity of these words is reminiscent of the ambiguity involved in “reverent seeker.”

2. The amendment continues, “(persons) who can work with respect for the Christian if they conscientiously join it.” This phrase is still discriminatory. How can a conscientious Jew be expected to remain silent? What about atheists? One of the arguments against Christian tenure last spring was that a truly Christian college welcomes dissent, questions, and a liberalizing approach so that the community could affirm its belief, not hide behind it.

3. “The President is authorized to recommend” is stated twice in the document: once for Christians, once for non-Christians. The separation could be interpreted two ways: either as a plea for a quota system or as a means for hiring a few token non-Christians to appease the press. The trustee amendment does not necessarily lead to these interpretations, but the ambiguity and discriminatory wording does not make them impossible.

The Faculty proposal does not separate non-Christians and Christians. It sets as hiring standards “professional competency, high moral stature, and the ability to live in harmony with the basic purposes of the College.” The wording does not lead to tokenism, quotas, or discrimination. It also does not lead to a breakdown in Christian commitment. The first sentence reads: “As a college dedicated to the service to God and man through a free and open search for truth and knowledge...” The sentence reflects Davidson’s Statement of Purpose. The Christian commitment is in that purpose; it need not meddle with hiring policy to the point of discrimination. Anyway, it is not the hiring policy, not the Statement of Purpose which determines Christian commitment. It is the Students, Faculty, and Administration. No one can deny that commitment is as strong or stronger today than ever in the past. To cite one example: the DCF is the largest organization on campus.

One argument for the trustee amendment is that the trustees want to ensure that commitment will remain as strong in 50 years. Their fear indicates a belief that there must be a tension between Christian commitment and academic excellence. We see no tension. True Christian commitment cannot be threatened by open-mindedness. If it is, then the commitment is nothing but a protective shell, which if that easily broken, should not even exist. Furthermore, any talk of 50 years from now is irrelevant. Christianity has stood for 2000 years. The Students, Faculty, and Administration here are committed to that tradition. The Statement of Purpose underlines it. Why must we assume that?

The Davidsonian

Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ....... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ........... Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Managing Editor
Photography Editor
Production Manager
Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Cartoonist
Photographer
Focus Editor
Inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.1. Do we fear we will follow in the footsteps of other former church-related institutions which have become secularized? Is our commitment so weak we need written rules to maintain it? And if in 50 years the college community sincerely wishes to become secularized, an imposed Christian Commitment would become that protective shell having little to do with Christianity.

The second argument for the trustee amendment is that we need to quit worrying over this issue and address ourselves to others such as new buildings. The point is well taken. But a by-law which is discriminatory is not something to be shoved under the table as quickly as possible. If we want to settle the issue we should settle it effectively. We cannot afford another blow-up simply because our by-law can be misinterpreted.

Is NIH cutback worth compromise taken? The cutback in the National Institute of Health internships (see page 1 story) may be one repercussion of Davidson’s discriminatory by-law. We could receive $35,000 for internships from the government. In the past, we have not even used this much but have managed to send at least fifteen students. This year we will only send nine to keep from spending over $10,000 of the government’s money. Why? To keep away from as much government investigation as possible.

The philosophy for private colleges to be free from governmental investigation is understandable. The administration is frightened of imposed affirmative action requirements. And the paperwork itself would be an imposition Davidson does not need. But aren’t we over-reacting? I cite two reasons.

1. In the past, we have signed a contract for $35,000 and have never been investigated. Why are we suddenly afraid of it?
2. Ken Wood reports other private colleges have not refused the NIH grants. Why does Davidson feel more compelled than the others to protect itself?

We admit to the problems that might be involved in taking the grants. Why should we pass up the opportunity if the fears involved are unwarranted?

What’cha gonna do?
By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

“Ralphy, I’m feelin’ 'bout as inadequate as a male dachshund faced with a female greyhound.”
“Whatcha mean? I didn’t notice in the shower or anything.”
“That was just a metaphor. What I mean is that the situation seems bigger than me.”
“Why’ncha say so, ’steada soundin’ like a mystic poet or somethin’?”
“Sorry, didn’t mean ta lose my head. But here I am, and everybody’s pre-min, pre-med, pre-law, pre-sin. And me—none ’a them.”
“Well, that is a little bleak. If you can’t trade on your futures, whatcha got left?”
“’Zactly. The big nada rears its ugly head once again.”
“Geez, what do you tell ’em when they ask whatcha majorin’ in?”
“First I tell ’em indecision. Then when they stop laughin’ real hard I try and change the subject and ask how Bio 31 is goin’. If that doesn’t work, I take it like a man and jus’ flat out tell ’em I’m an English major. They kinda don’t know what ta say right off, you know, feelin’ sorry for you and such, so we just count our toes for awhile.”
“Bet they ask if you’re teach, huh?”
“Inevitable. And real man-like I tell ’em no. That makes ’em feel ’bout as comfortable as a guy at Rusk House.”
“That bad? Then whatcha say?”
“Well, I break it to ’em flat out. I don’t even wanna go ta grad school, I say it just like that, no softeners or anything.”
“Whadya say when they get up off the floor?”
“Well, I tell ’em how I’m keeping my options open and maybe I’d like to be a journalist for awhile, but I don’t really wanna do anything forever, ‘cept mebbe fish.”
“Bet they don’t even ask how many kids you want after that, huh?”
“Or if I want a big fluffy dog.”
“What’s left to be said?”
“Metaphysics are out of the question and moral relativism rarely does it either.”
“Must be good for the strong silent image.”
“Mmm.”

LETTERS
The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night will ordinarily be printed that week.