The Davidsonian, December 16, 1977

After Marburg... Davidson does not measure up

By DAVE NASH

The hardest thing about going abroad for your junior year is having to come back to Davidson. I have felt closed-in and frustrated since I got back, but only recently have I come to understand why I feel that way. I want to get at some of the reasons by first describing the situation in Marburg and then applying my experiences there to Davidson. This is by no means a full comparison of Phillips University and Davidson College. Much more could be said.

I am in the 900 Room almost every night. Most of the courses in the German liberal arts curriculum are seminars with 25 to 100 students. (The few lecture courses that exist have 50 to 200 students, generally cover basic topics, and are often bad.) The seminars differ greatly from Davidson. The professor poses a general title and syllabus for the course, but the latter is open to discussion by the class. The entire group influences the direction the course is to take and chooses specific topics to be discussed. The students often modify and sometimes completely change the professor's proposal. Because the groups are so big, they divide up into work groups of four or five, each taking a specific topic, studying it in depth, and presenting a short paper for discussion by the entire class.

The work groups I was in turned out to be excellent learning experiences. For example, in one we studied the idea of the character in drama. Because of a quirk in the German language, we had trouble deciding if we were supposed to be discussing characters in drama or the character (essence) of drama. We worked on the first until somebody suggested that maybe we were supposed to do the second. After a week we realized that we were trying to do the impossible, so we went back to the first. In all the confusion, however, we came up with some intriguing questions. I feel that I learned much more from those questions than I would have learned had I been given the answers.

Maybe I should get to the point. Davidson is frustrating. Most of the courses are lecture courses where the class just accepts what the professor says. A lecture is an efficient way of covering material—everyone knows that we cover more in one term than many schools cover in two—but I question how much we are learning. Sometimes I feel as if I am only learning to paraphrase on a test what the professor says in class and then to forget it as soon as exams are over. The seminar I have now is very refreshing, but I have heard that they are not all so good. We fall too easily into our classroom roles where professors are authorities required to think and students are only supposed to get it all down in 50 minutes. The alternative is the yo-yo discussion where the professor ends up answering his own questions when students cannot anticipate him. It seems we would all learn so much more if we could think and discuss on the same level. Maybe then Davidson would be an academic community (in my view, a place of real learning and not just accumulation of knowledge). It is not now, but nobody is really to blame; that is, everybody is to blame.

I’m also frustrated by the paternalism of the administration. The three-course requirement is a good example. Why does the administration feel it needs to strictly enforce such an artificial measure of what we are learning? Well, Davidson is a contin-Fine. What does the number of courses taken per term have to do with a continuing educational experience? Why can’t a two-course term be just as educational as a three-course term? Because you don’t cover as much. The other reasons given for the new move hardly deserve mention. One implies that students are not mature enough to avoid a pre-graduation disaster. Another defends the need for ‘uniformity’ in the running of a small college. The three-course requirement does not really bother me. The attitudes behind it do. I think that Davidson is in a very bad position at the moment. We lack the real basis and momentum of an academic community, and the attitudes of the administration are pushing us backward instead of forward. But they should not have to take the blame either. The essence of all this is that we are standing in our little pools of complacency when we really need to be moving together to improve our situation. We need to change—or at least talk about—many things. The three-course requirement is a small one. If you want a big one, try Christian Tenure. But we can’t just concentrate on that kind of issue, because we always seem to get caught in the emotional overtones and lose sight of the underlying concern—that Davidson be (or become) an academic community of the highest order. I think the place to start is in the classroom with a reevaluation of our purposes and methods of learning. If we start any higher, we'll miss the point.

‘Tis the season for song and fun

REV. HYDEN SEEKER

There are many ways to tell when it’s close to Christmas around Davidson. One sure way is noting the characteristic cramming for before-break reviews. Another method that is not as prevalent this year is recognizing how most of the talk about the basketball team by Christmas time concerns next season. Then again, there’s always the sound of spontaneously organized carolers singing into the night that indicates that the Christmas spirit has indeed descended upon Davidson. To these latter-mentioned makers of merriment, I would like to offer a special gift. It occurred to me that these carolers might occasionally get tired of singing the same songs over and over again. After all, most of them have been around for generations. Some of the following, if not more enjoyable, may at least be more amusing.

DECK US ALL
(sung to the tune of “Deck the Halls”)

Deck us all with courses plenty,
Fa la la la la, what else to do?
To hell with three, just give us twenty,
Fa la la la la, you can’t take two!
Zimmerman wants sharp precision,
(Load us up, load us up, we’re here to learn)
So he makes our own decision,
Fa la la la la, there goes spring term!

I’M DREAMING OF A TRUE UPDATE
(Sung to the tune of “White Christmas”)

I’m dreaming of a true Update,
Alumni have a right to know
So Football’s grieving
And Jewish hiring’s going slow...
I’m dreaming of a true Update
Where good (and bad) remain in sight;
Though its news is dreary and trite,
At least, may its articles be right.

IN EXBISML, PEPTO
(Sung to the tune of “Joy to the World”)

Joy to the Girls, of A-R-A!
Let earth grow old in line.
Let every heart, with gas consume.
And wonders of Ron’s fries,
And of the meat he buys,
And temptuous temptings for the flies.

OH S.A.E., OH S.A.E.
(sung to the tune of “O, Christmas Tree”)

Oh S.A.E., oh S.A.E.,
Your parties are a treasure.
From boxes juke, at half-past three,
You've given us such pleasure.
You play it loud so we can hear,
That you've got lots of Christmas cheer,
But that’s because you're full of beer,
Oh, S.A.E., oh S.A.E.

WDAV
(Sung to the tune of “O Little Town of Bethlehem”)

O little W.D.A.V.,
Your tastes make sane men cry.
Above us all you claim to be,
With a staff that’s oh, so high.
But in that dark, deep basement
Lies “Heart” and “Fleetwood Mac”:
Just take a clue from R-O-Q,
You'll get some listeners back.

May everyone have a safe and joyous holiday season!