September 23, 1977

The Davidsonian

Sidelines

with Banta

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

With nine starters returning from last year’s 7-2 team, field hockey coach Susan Roberts is optimistic about the 1977 season.

Six freshman girls were starters on last year’s young team and are all back for the current 15-game campaign, which includes perennially tough Duke and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

“It will definitely be a winning season,” Roberts predicts.

“Seventeen girls are out for the team this year, including five freshmen, all of whom should see considerable playing time.

Nancy Brown and Beth Tanner, both seniors, and Kirk Cameron, a junior and a Deep-South Team pick in '76, will lead the Wildcats into their season opener against Catawba College on September 27.

This game will be the Wildcats’ first under a new playing system designed to generate a stronger offensive attack and increase the scoring output. In 1976 they found the goal twenty-eight times while holding nine opponents to a total of eight goals.

Roberts believes Davidson will win their first two games with “no problem.”

A tough October schedule follows, including the Duke and Carolina contests and a doubleheader with Appalachian State and a touring British squad, but Roberts feels confident.

“I see no weak points, except maybe a lack of experience using the new system, but it should work out,” she concluded.

Farrell uses same approach

By PAUL BANTA
Sports Columnist

What is Davidson’s football team doing differently?

Only two games into the 1977 season, the Wildcats have already matched their victory total of last year, and seem to be headed toward the mythical winning season. It’s not like it hasn’t been done here—it’s just that it has been so long.

Although the results have been dramatically different, Coach Ed Farrell is still using the same approach he has used to rebuild three previous programs and has stuck with since arriving in Davidson in early 1974.

“It’s evident progress has been made,” Farrell said while taking a break from preparation for Saturday's visit to Bucknell, “But I think we’ve improved each year. From the outside, it might not have looked like it, but we’ve been improving.”

Farrell doesn’t like making timetables for success of a program and there wasn’t one for the Wildcats.

“I never established a timetable as far as producing a winning team,” he said. “It’s a mistake to do that. Certain situations, such as injury and the schedule, which you have no control over, can affect it.

“Prior to my arriving,” Farrell recalled, “it was like asking the coach to play poker for high stakes saying I'll give you three cards and I’ll take five.”

But the silver-haired Farrell, who the players and coaches affectionately call the “Fox,” came at a time when the direction of the program was changing from scholarships to need grant-in-aids. The school was not abandoning football, as some feared, but was only moving it to a more reasonable level.

“Before coming to Davidson, I looked at the program and the opponents,” he said. “Some coaches think they can outcoach other coaches. It's more important to look at the opponents’ programs instead of the coaching. I wanted to be at a place where there was the chance to be successful.

“Recruiting was our first major concern here,” he continued. “After a while, retention was just as important. Last year we only lost three—all freshmen—and this year we've only lost one. Winning will help.

“The fans are the quickest to praise or criticize the handling of the team on the field, but it’s not as important,” he pointed out. “In winning a particular game, it’s important, but in building a winning program it’s not. I learned a long time ago, it’s better to have the right player running the wrong play than the wrong player running the right play.”

In reflecting back on his first three teams at Davidson, Farrell believes the difference between those and the fourth edition is the result of the steady, if slow, improvement, not just an overnight change.

“On the field, we were better the first year than the second,” he said. “We still had some good athletes such as Dave Harper, George Wiecker and Eddie Womack who were recruited after the 1969 bowl season. The other classes were not as talented.

“We showed some improvement on the field last year,” he continued. “I thought we had an outside shot at being .500.

I was looking for a better record than we had, but it didn't change the development of the program. After the season, despite the record, there was tremendous enthusiasm.”

That enthusiasm has carried over to this fall and is one of the major characteristics of this year’s squad as it moves to destroy the Wildcats’ losing tradition.

“It’s not done yet,” Farrell admitted, “but we've got a leg up on it.”

Sports note—When asked last week before the Washington & Lee game whether his son, Pete, a sophomore at W&L, would be rooting for his father or his school, Ed Farrell replied, “He'll be pulling for the one that pays his tuition.”

SCRAMBLING FOR the puck, these two Wildcats prepare for their opening game against Catawba on September 27.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

Plye Gift Shop
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday — Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville, 663-1503

Give Him Teakwood

Durable. Beautiful. Once the backbone of great sailing ships. Today, it glides smoothly across seas of correspondence as a handsome Hallmark writing instrument. Teak! A unique gift idea from the Hallmark Executive Timber line.

$30.00 the set $15.00 single

THE VILLAGE STORE

© 1976 Hallmark Cards Inc.