January 14, 1977 - Independence causes un
By W. Gatewood Workman
Faculty Guest Columnist

This is the first in a series of columns by the Davidson faculty. From 1925, when I entered college, to 1977, when I retire; from monastery to country club; from less than $250 per course to more than $250 per course; from in loco parentis to noticeable parietal rules; from faculty and administrative authoritarianism to grade inflation; from required worship every day to no required assemblies whatever; from a few faculty Model A’s and Franklins under the trees to hundreds of late-model sports cars parked on paved acres; from two years of compulsory Bible to two courses in religion or the equivalent; from fraternity domination to such an extent that some students who did not get a bid left school heartbroken to self-selected co-ed eating clubs; from formal dances with big bands to blue jeans and hard rock.

But the most impressive change, to me at least, and I think the change most revealing of the genuine cultural revolution that we are still living through, is the increase in the frequency with which students who come to me for counseling say: “I don’t know what I want,” “I don’t know what my values are,” “I don’t know who I am.” (Sometimes it is “if my roommate, best friend, mother knew me as I know myself, I’d be rejected,” but that is another problem.) I was getting some of this self-questioning over forty years ago, when I first began counseling, but the proportion of persons presenting this pattern has increased greatly, and, if my experience can be trusted, the depth of the questioning has increased just as much as its frequency has. (This frequency is reflected in the inclusion of “Depersonalization Neurosis” as a new diagnostic category in the most recent diagnostic scheme of the American Psychiatric Association and in the writing on an even newer class of disorder, “Existential Neurosis.”)

I think that finding oneself is harder now than it has ever been, and, at the risk of oversimplifying, I suggest that among the major factors making it harder we will find these three, which are closely interrelated: (1) the increased mobility of our population, (2) the shift from family-centeredness during the years of childhood and adolescence, and (3) the decrease in close contact with grandparents and old-maid aunts.

There is no doubt but that our values are tremendously influenced

Letters to the editor
Davidson needs dance,
To the Editor:

I would like to take this opportunity to make a suggestion concerning the upcoming Midwinters weekend. I cannot understand why the college seldom has good dances during the “big weekends.” I have just returned from Duke University where I went to an extremely successful dance. Last year, the college only sponsored one bonafide dance all year. It was during Spring Frolics. This year, the college sponsored a dance during Homecoming weekend after the concert. It was very well-received despite the fact that it didn’t start until 10:30 pm, and no one had ever heard of the band. Lots of people danced until almost 2 am even though the band was not up to par with those heard at fraternities on campus.

Many students at Davidson enjoy dances, but the only real dances on campus now are those on Patterson Court. If fraternities and eating houses can sponsor dances, and most people like them, why can’t the college sponsor a better one when it

Visit to prison brings X-mas joy to inmates
To the Editor:

Re: The Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

On behalf of the residents of the Mecklenburg II Prison in Huntersville, please accept my sincere thanks for the Christmas program you presented here on December 14, 1976. The superb display of talents and the generous offering of delicious refreshments certainly received overwhelming approval from the men incarcerated here. More important, however, was the atmosphere of joy you created in what can be a very lonely and spiritually empty place at Christmas. Without your sacrificial giving of time and personal blessings, the joy I refer to would have not occurred.

The controversial nature of prisons and the dismal picture they often project makes the decision of personal involvement with prison residents a difficult one. Because we can grow as individuals from risk-taking and caring, however, I hope you will find that the answer to your decision has not provided you with a conclusion but only a beginning.

Again, allow me to say how grateful I am to all of you. You have once again proven that the Gospels become the more beautiful when they are taken out of their leather covers and placed in the context of human lives.

Roy K. Rogers
Mecklenburg II Prison
Huntersville, N.C.

by the values of the most important people in our early environment; we tend to take over and make our own the standards and values of those people whom we love and respect and who are the source of our major satisfactions (compare the Freudian concept of goal-oriented identification). When we were less mobile and youngsters spent more time with their elders, who themselves werePretty certain of their values and were in agreement with each other (even if largely because their immobility had offered them little exposure to differing values), we rather automatically became like our elders. But increasingly in the past several decades, children and adolescents have been exposed to a greater variety of values. What may be of greater importance, although closely related to the increased mobility, is that there has been an increase in the proportion of time that children and adolescents spend with others their own age rather than with their elders; consequently, more of their satisfactions have come from their peers, persons whose values have not yet become fixed. If the models have differing values, and if many of them are uncertain of their values, there can hardly be certainty about values for those being influenced.

“Janice” has far greater resources than any fraternity on campus? I am not suggesting that the college drop the usual concert. Why couldn’t the concert be on Friday night and have a dance on Saturday night? The 900 Room is a great facility for dances, and if the Union charged a dollar or two for admission, it could hold costs to a minimum. Slater would make a lot of money selling beer, also. There are several bands available in this area for this type of dance. The best one is called “Janice,” formerly known as “the Reggie Sadler Revue.” They are a seven-piece band which has cut one album and just returned from a very successful tour through the Far West. They are playing this weekend at North Carolina, and have already played before packed houses at Wake Forest, North Carolina State, and Duke. Over 2,000 people saw them at Duke. Their price tag is about $1,600, modest indeed when compared to most concert bands. Another plus point for having a good dance is that it would offer an alternative for those students who haven’t especially enjoyed the last few concerts. Even if you don’t like to dance, the show that “Janice” puts on is worth the price of admission. There are many other bands in the Charlotte area, but none that match the talent and popularity of “Janice.” Since Midwinters is a special weekend, I feel that it merits a band of “Janice’s” stature. I sincerely hope that the Union will take my suggestion into consideration. Students at Duke, Carolina, Wake Forest, and State will all attest to how much they enjoyed “Janice.”

Cari McPhail ’79
Davidson College

The third factor that I listed will bear special attention, and I am not being facetious in attributing importance to old-maid aunts. In the taking over of values, models who are loved and respected are especially important. Love does tend to beget love, and being loved by those whom one respects does lead to self-acceptance. The decline of the extended family, even if it consisted mostly of several generations in the same community (rather than under the same roof), has deprived many children and adolescents of association with grandparents and old-maid aunts. Nobody loves us as these do. Parents have to hold us responsible for our actions. When our actions meet with their disapproval, we are likely to feel that they are rejecting us, that they are withdrawing their love (unfortunately these feelings are sometimes justified). But with grandparents and old-maid aunts—that is a different situation. I am inclined to think that at least some of the questioning of self stems from the absence of the kind of support that grandparents and old-maid aunts provided; they gave what Carl Rogers calls “unconditional positive regard.” (I have focused on old-maid aunts; bachelor uncles can hardly compare.)

I believe that the increase in the proportion of those who are uncertain about their values, who say “I don’t know who I am,” is a far more important change than most, perhaps all, of the more obvious ones which I mentioned in my opening paragraph. I do not see a return to the former conditions, like the extended family and less mobility, which made certainty of values, certainty of self, easier to develop. Will we discover how to build certainty in spite of the modern conditions which make it so difficult? Will we find new ways of living that foster certainty? Or must we learn to cope in spite of perpetual uncertainty?

Hull handles elections well

To the Editor:

As a student who has seen a fair number of elections conducted on this campus, I for one would like to express relief, surprise, and gratitude for the way in which Joanne Hull handled this year’s SGA elections. Unfortunately, Davidson elections are often marked by confusion and lack of information; this year was different. In a race characterized by extremely close contests with heavy voter turnout, the competent, efficient manner in which Ms. Hull and her committee handled the process is to be commended.

Steve Peeples '77
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.