Sa January 14, 1977

Brickels content with new career

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

“Hey, isn’t that Bo Brickels over there?”
“Yeah, it sure is, I guess he still keeps up with the Davidson program.”

If you thought you saw former Head Basketball Coach Bo Brickels around lately, you probably did. Brickels, still living in
Davidson, works at the Piedmont Insurance Company across from the Post Office. Davidson is home for Brickels and his family
of four. The Brickels have recently moved into a new house on Pine Road and have had “no problem” in
(now coach of the Denver Nuggets) to coach in 1969-70, I have made a lot of friends in the community.
It would have been hard to leave Davidson.”

As soon as Brickels was fired in March, ending a verbal contract which Brickels assumed would run for one more
year, he has been in search of job openings. But as Brickels said, “I couldn’t just take anything, I had
already not made it at Davidson and I didn’t have five more years to end up not making it again.”

But coaching was still first in his mind, “Athletics had been my whole life since I was five years old.
My dad was in athletics. It was the only thing I knew. After Davidson though, I knew a head coaching
post was out of the question, but I was looking for an assistant coaching position in a strong program with
strong people.”

Brickels contacted Larry Brown in early August about any openings in pro-ball. He was told that Doug Moe was in
line for the San Antonio head coaching job and could be looking for another assistant. Later at the Olympic Trials,
Brickels talked with Tates Locke, who had recently been named head coach at Buffalo, about being his assistant at Buffalo.
Both of these opportunities fell through, however.

Meanwhile, Brickels cut tapes for a TV station analyzing sport features such as why the ACC rarely wins the NCAA
tournament, the Mark Fidrych phenomenon, etc. “I’ve been told I had a gift for the gab, but I didn’t know
what it would be like before the red light,” said Brickels. “So I cut the tapes, and I thought they
turned out good. It was the first thing to come my way which I was really enthusiastic about. My wife
and I sat down and had a talk one night and we decided that maybe coaching wasn't for me, so
if it had come down to either coaching or TV, I would have chosen TV.”

But the TV post failed to materialize when negotiations cooled off just before confirmation. So Brickels got in contact with
an old friend who set him up with the Piedmont Insurance Company. Actually, Brickels sells life insurance for Bankers Life
of Iowa, but he sells it through Piedmont Insurance Company who doesn’t handle life insurance. About his job Brickels said,
“I didn’t want to end up selling life insurance to my next door neighbor, this opportunity gave me access to
Piedmont’s files and I became their life insurance representative. I enjoy what I’m doing, hey, I’ve forgotten coaching.”

Still, Brickels has kept up with this year’s team better than most students; he’s seen most of the games.

Meal Card Policy effective Jan. 17, 1977

Due to the abuse of your meal I.D. card system by some students we are making the following policy: If
you do not have your meal I.D. card you must either go get it or pay cash for your meal.
We will return your money to you upon presentation of the card. Your meal card and the meals on it
are non-transferable. To use someone else’s card or claim more than one meal at a time is an Honor Code
violation! Your cooperation will be greatly appreciated.

Your Campus Dining Service

Thank you.home games and watched all of our games on television. Asked to compare this team with last year’s team,
Brickels said, “It’s the same team. They’re still young. It’s a growing process, they're still experiencing growing pains.” Brickels feels
it will be very hard, though possible, to again achieve the national prominence in basketball that Davidson enjoyed under Lefty
Driesell, because of the uniqueness of Lefty himself and the skills which Driesell brought to Davidson. In addition, the emergence
of the black athlete on the college basketball scene in the last ten years has made the situation more difficult
for schools like Davidson. Asked if he still had any interest in coaching, Brickels said, “No, I’ve gotten over that.”
But he added, “The hardest part about leaving coaching is not getting a chance to work with the kids, and
their relationship with your family. That’s what you really miss, working with the kids.”

Pep Band becomes integral part of Wildcat sport scene
By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

During the past year, under the direction of Matt Horne, the Pep Band has become an integral part of the
Davidson sports scene. It has taken an exciting and innovative approach to the task of supporting the football and basketball
teams and at the same time provided an entertaining diversion for the fans. Horne commented on what he called “the
philosophy of the Pep Band” which “is to provide a diversionary type of entertainment for the fans, something that is
best accomplished by doing crazy stunts which are usually of a very spontaneous nature. At the same time, it seeks
to provide a musical outlet for students that is fun.”

Certainly, the Pep Band has fully realized its goals this year. Crazed stunts have been in abundance: marching through the
football team during a pre-game warmup; original half-time shows; and in a recent basketball game against Duke, everyone dressed in
the most outlandish manner possible—one trombone player appeared at the game with goggles and a lampshade over his head. Horne
commented, “I believe our greatest concentrated effort of insanity this year was in our half-time shows at the football games.”
Perhaps many fans did not recognize the similarities between the Wildcat Pep Band and the Ohio State marching band, but
none missed the running entrances, original dance steps, and hilarious commentaries (by announcer Tony Snow) featured in these half-time shows.

When asked why the normal, academic-minded Davidson student suddenly exhibits deviant behavior upon entering the Pep Band, Horne answered, “Everyone
acts crazy because in a group such as the Pep Band the individual becomes virtually anonymous and loses previous inhibitions.”
During the past year, the average membership of the Pep Band has increased from 15 to 40 students. New uniforms
and new music have also been obtained. The new music includes such tunes as the Oscar Mayer wiener theme, the
Budweiser theme, and the Mickey Mouse Club song, which may not be classical compositions, but they do keep everyone entertained.
“Our rapid growth is due to the large number of freshmen and sophomores that make up the bulk of the
band and provide most of the enthusiasm,” added Horne. “The administration and the new director of instrumental music, Dr. William
Lawing, have also been extremely supportive.” Horne refuses to reveal the future plans of the Pep Band, but it is
certain that Davidson fans can count on many more original diversions in upcoming basketball games.
