April 1, 1977

Barrett rejuvenates Publications Board

By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

WDAV Station Manager Sid Barrett, recently elected President of the Publications Board, plans to rejuvenate the board, making it more effective in solving some of the problems in the student media.

“We need a clearer vehicle to express student thought,” said Barrett.

The Publications Board is made up of College Business Manager Robert Currie, the general manager of WDAV, and the editors of the Wildcat Handbook, Quips and Cranks, The Davidsonian, and The Miscellany.

Barrett will call meetings of the board more frequently, and would like to tighten communications between editors in order to better organize student opinion.

“I’d like to see more opportunities for the student to come talk to all the media heads together.

“I would also like for the students to share, if possible, some of the benefits from the high power radio station, especially the opportunities in radio journalism.”

The Publications Board is not a decision-making authority. It works in conjunction with and makes recommendations to the newly-formed Media Board.

The Media Board has a broad range of powers over the student media—among them, appointing and dismissing editors, reviewing finances and budgets, and establishing a code of responsible journalism.

“The Media Board is made up of people not directly involved with student media, which is probably a good thing,” said Barrett.

Point of Order

The Davidsonian

Robert L. Avinger

Diverse topics fill Senate agenda

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

The second Senate Screening Committee, chaired by Hans Watford (Sentelle), presented its candidates for four faculty and administration advisory committees.

Watford stressed the importance of the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee and said that eleven people had applied for the two positions available.

The Screening Committee presented six candidates to the Senate—Martin Hunter and Tom Ruby were elected.

J. Christian's Pottery Shop

New stoneware pieces each week
Spring hours:
Tues.-Sat. 11-5:30
Sun. 2-5

1 mile north of Davidson on Hwy. 115

David Beard, Chris Crosby, Fred Goodwin and Ellen Stebbins also applied.

Lynne Elliott and Bev. Jones were elected to the Counseling and Guidance Committee. Cissy Fulenwider and Tom Niblock were also candidates for the two positions.

Doug Horn and Bob Perz were unanimously elected to the Physical Education Committee as was Guy Dicenzo to the Library Committee.

President Thom Young praised the work of the committee. He said that screening applicants is a very demanding job that must be carried out in a responsible manner. Young will report to the Council on Campus and Religious Life on the relationship between the Council and the Senate. He stressed that both groups are seeking a working relationship and are eager to accommodate each other.

Watford, also Chairman of the Senate Security Committee, reported that both his group and the police were “very, very pleased” with the response to the bicycle registration program. He singled out Bruce Brown, Randy Haynes, and Ralph Yielding, praising their work on the program.

The committee has also secured an outside light near the Carnegie House for the protection of its residents and is working on security in the gym.

Lynn Langley and Parliamentarian Percy Badham are investigating the feasibility of utilizing solar energy at Davidson. They are in the process of writing other colleges for ideas.

Nancy Catron (Watts) reported that the Student/Faculty Interaction group has planned a songfest for this Thursday night and has determined the new policy of student-faculty pool.

David Barnard ’79 and his committee are examining alternatives to and improvements for Homecoming. His committee has also organized the Patterson Court social chairman into a group which is now planning a special day for April 30.

Senior Marc Menchel appeared before the Senate to express his feelings on the “unresponsiveness of the administration.”

Citing the proposed policy of the Union in regard to vandalism, and certain policies of the Athletic Department as examples, he stated there seems to be “less and less student input” in policy making since he has been a student.

He urged the Senate to make the administration accountable for its decisions.

Plaza Shop

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503