January 28, 1977 The Davidsonian

Admissions policy allows some latitude. It’s just numbers at the end of the process, admissions officials said. The process is a multi-step operation. An applicant’s high school record, SAT scores, and other test scores are used to predict average performance at Davidson. A file, made up of recommendations, records, and biography, is then reviewed by a team of two admissions officers. The file is visible under a second admissions officer’s view. She said it would be nice to have a sex-blind policy. But that’s not feasible in some areas of the process. It might make it a difficult decision to first examine how it would work. A study affected by a sex-blind system would be close to establishing a more diverse community environment. The current rate of a rigid 50:50 ratio among the 175 most promising prospects of acceptance would be against men. Davidson’s special consideration of applicants includes black students, athletes, and children of alumni. Dean White said that, “Some areas have inequities in those areas, but I really think the consideration we give is appropriate. Our policies are similar to the policies of most colleges I know in these areas.” Davidson grants special consideration, as it were, to all applicants.

Faculty members and any admissions official rank the applicant on a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being the highest, by each team member. According to Professor of Psychology Dr. Ostwalt, a student whose average rank is 7 or above is a clear case to accept, and one whose rank is below 5 is turned down. The borderline applicants, with scores between 5 and 7, are put on hold for a second rating. Three categories of applicants receive special benefits from the admissions staff: blacks, athletes, and children of alumni. “In the first rating, theoretically, they don’t get any special consideration,” said White. “In actual practice, you cannot compartmentalize that much. When I’m reading a qualified black student’s folder, I figure we'll take him anyway, so I hike his rating,” he said. After the clear-cut acceptances and rejections have been determined, the middle-ranking applicants are reviewed again. During this second rating, the special consideration is taken into account. “We’ll spend two or three long meetings going over (the alumni’s children) in great detail,” White said. “Like, we'll know Mary’s father is deeply emotionally involved with Davidson.” “I don’t care how strong the family’s ties are, if the student will not be successful without undue difficulty, we won’t take him,” he said. White says religious minorities, applicants of low economic status, and children of missionaries are looked upon favorably by the admissions committee, although they receive no special benefits. “We have no policy on religious minorities, but my guess is that since they add a little diversity, they get a little edge with certain faculty members,” said White. “I think I would feel some obligation if an applicant is a missionary’s son,” he said. “The trustees would be disappointed if they didn’t get special consideration.”

TONY BOON, Admissions Counselor in charge of transfers, develops a new Transfer Student Committee to ease transfer students’ move into Davidson. (Hunter Jennings.)

By AMANDA HALL Managing Editor

Six faculty members, three appointed by College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., and three elected by the faculty, review applicants to Davidson. The members are Drs. Bryan, Johnston, Maloney, Ostwalt, Palmer, and Cornell. The Davidsonian interviewed each of these to find out what they look for in applicants, or their idea of the perfect Davidson student. “What it amounts to is first deciding if the student is capable of doing the work,” said Bryan. “Assuming they can do the work, the next thing to check is motivation, and the...

Recruiters concentrate on highly represented regions

By EMILY MASON Staff Writer

Does Davidson’s recruiting format promote a homogeneous student body? At present, students from five Southern states—North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, and Georgia—represent 75 percent of the total student body, according to Leonard Satterwhite, Admissions Counselor. The remaining 25 percent of the student population is made up primarily of students from four East Coast states—New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Connecticut, with some representatives of Mid- and South-West states. “There’s not that much interest (in Davidson) beyond Texas,” said Satterwhite. The recruitment schedule, planned to a large extent during the summer months, is based on three factors: One, where are the majority of present Davidson students from? Two, where were the previous years’ applicants from? Three, what areas does the prospective list indicate as interested in Davidson? Priority areas are established according to these figures. The greater the number of students who have applied from one area, the more likely the area is to be visited by...A Davidson recruiter. The recruiting season is from September to December. In these four months, recruiters visit as many schools as possible, given the recruiting budget, staff, and time. The Admissions Office doesn’t “plan any canned presentation,” according to H. Edmunds White, Director of Admissions and Financial Aid. Instead, the presentation varies with the location and time of the high school’s program. North Carolina is covered most thoroughly by Davidson in such sessions. Individual schools are visited by members of the recruiting team as well as members of the faculty, according to White. In “roving sessions,” each college is given a table in the high school’s gymnasium, and high school students come by the table individually to ask questions and discuss the college. To those areas that cannot be personally represented by, but which show interest in, Davidson, the college sends letters of general introduction to everyone on the prospective list. The college additionally conducts motel interviews on the East Coast to provide interested high school students from distant locales with the opportunity to learn more about the college. And finally, Davidson student volunteers speak in their hometowns, both as representatives of the organized student recruiting team and on their own.

Prep schools currently represent “less than ten percent” of those schools personally visited by Davidson recruiters, according to White. However, Duff Bruce, former Admissions Counselor, feels that this percentage will increase because of the cost of the college. “When (recruiters) go into new areas, because of past experience they usually go to prep schools first,” said Bruce. “Recruiting plays a very important role in creating interest in Davidson,” said Satterwhite. It is important, according to Satterwhite, in terms of “disseminating information to students and parents,” talking with high school counselors who often don’t emphasize financial aid possibilities, and providing interested students with a “contact person” in the Admissions Office. “Maybe we need to get into more schools,” said White. But, “because of the lack of staff, you have to limit yourself in order to get the most from that staff... With two (recruiters) on the road, it’s tough at the office.” “We can’t fly everywhere,” explained Satterwhite, due to a limited budget and increasing costs. “If one person could devote all of September to December to recruiting, that would be fantastic.” “This year we did more recruiting in terms of the number of schools visited,” said Satterwhite, but Davidson is competing with “other schools with larger recruiting programs.” Does Davidson recruiting foster a homogeneous student body? Said White, “the best representation of this place is like it is.”

SEVENTY-FIVE PERCENT of the students and parents at freshman orientation come from five Southeastern states.

[Faculty expresses: applicant priorities]

The way to check that is high school records. “Of those who are academically qualified and motivated, those who have an interest have a special plus, and I’ll choose them over the others. “Another thing I look for in the male applicants in particular is whether they have done any work to help themselves financially. That’s a plus,” he said. “I look for evidence of academic performance in terms of their ability, whether they’re overachievers or underachievers,” said Johnston. “I look for some sign of leadership qualities, working with people. “It boils down to a total impression that is based on bits of evidence. We're looking for a good citizen as well as a good scholar. “We've turned down a number of people with high board scores because they seemed to be misfits. “Any evidence of a lack of integrity, the attempt to deceive, or the holding back of some vital information can very well be fatal,” he said. “The primary requirement, where I start, is that I have to be completely convinced the student will succeed at Davidson and be a contributing member of the community,” said Maloney. “My ideal student is ranked at the top of the class, president of the student body, played the piano for ten years, and was captain of an athletic team. “I like a student to show some independence of spirit, a student who’s different, a student who has a unique contribution,” he said. “The first thing I look at is the quantitative data which indicate several things to me,” said Ostwalt. “One is academic success. “Ability is important, as a contribution, but there are many other fields in which they can contribute—leadership, music, drama, student government, or athletics. “I also try to be sensitive to unusual things about people that they may contribute to [see FACULTY, page 14].”