- May 5, 1977

Well, this is the last issue of the year. It sure has been...

Unless the SGA can clearly define its course evaluation goals within the next few weeks, the single best opportunity for achieving a student-approved evaluation system in this decade will have been allowed to slip through their fingers.

When new Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann arrives on campus this summer, he has already been directed by President Spencer to begin work on a "Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures" in conjunction with the faculty’s Professional Affairs Committee. The administration must draft such a document soon to comply with the explicit directives of the 1976 College Constitution. PAC is also anxious to have such a document because at present professors really don’t know just how they’re being evaluated for tenure, promotions, and wages.

SGA President Thom Young has said, and with good reason, that student representatives should play a part in the evaluation negotiations. But even if they gain seating, such students would have no political leverage to affect significant changes in the document so long as there is an internal SGA dispute on exactly what evaluation should be about. Young has the common sense to see that the real issue here is whether or not students will be allowed meaningful input into faculty evaluation for tenure; it is the students who must suffer from incompetent professors, not faculty colleagues or administration figures. He sees the perpetuation of SGA course statistics as a side issue.

The SGA Course Evaluation Committee, on the other hand, is interested mainly in evaluating courses for student use and sees faculty evaluation as a long-range goal. Unfortunately, the time for paring now and a long-range goal is no longer viable for student influence on the Zimmermann document derives from the course statistics controversy. As PAC chairman, Dr. David Kaylor, has said, being graded in public is frankly an embarrassment to professors. PAC doesn’t want any official statistical results made public. Young, however, has been working to have the SGA course statistics "institutionalized" so that a valid response may be obtained and published. Both the fall and winter term results have been statistical failures and if continued in their present condition will go far to undermine SGA credibility.

A big opportunity for compromise exists. The SGA could meet with PAC to decide on a two-part form which would require student completion. The first part of the form could contain questions potentially embarrassing to faculty and the second part could contain more objective questions helpful to students in selecting courses. The first part would remain confidential and the second would be published. Young has stated that he would "love" such a plan and President Spencer has termed it "possible." But getting such a form put into effect would require the cooperation of the SGA Course Evaluation Committee—a task that may prove quite impossible. For the CEC doesn’t want its PR.

Remember the issues to keep them alive. People do not like to hear bad news. The Davidsonian gives it to you weekly. "The student rag" you call us. We do not create bad news to stir up controversy. The issues are there and we are in a position to...see Davidson's faults, report them, and make the effort to change them. That effort is futile without student, faculty, and administrative support. The time has come to evaluate Davidson's needs and plan for action to fill those needs. Before all concern gives way to the summer’s sun, we cannot forget the issues or they will die. We need to watch the WDAV station. The projected 18,000-watt station is an expense which conflicts with what many view to be a fair and sensible budget priority system. If the WDAV goal is realized, students need to be sure they have a voice in the decision-making over programming. We need to curb the vandalism on campus by stressing pride in private property and the honor system. We need to make the EPC’s policy on Extended Studies work to the benefit of those students who wish to pursue their own academic course. Faculty members should encourage and students should undertake competent Extended Studies projects to support what should be an academic freedom which challenges the student to get an analytical education. We need to encourage faculty to conduct research and publish. A good professor can and should devote time both to students and independent study research. He/she owes it to the students to stay on top of his field to create an atmosphere of innovative classroom instruction. We need to push Dr. Zimmerman and Dr. Spencer to arrive at a standard hiring procedure so cases such as the Linden affair could be avoided. We need to press Dr. Zimmerman, the Senate, and the Professional Affairs Committee to arrive at a fair and standardized means of course and faculty evaluation. Tenure decisions for the “new generation” of professors will be coming in the next few years; Davidson would be unprofessional and inefficient if a system is not created. We need to eliminate the Christian tenure policy in the Davidson By-Laws not only to make Davidson realize its responsibility to the liberal arts ideal but also to regain status in the academic world. This action against Christian tenure proves students and faculty have the ability to instigate change. The spirit cannot die. Davidson needs to open itself to free and open criticism to remain a true center of intellectual growth. We need a creative, innovative attitude to revive our present slippage into stagnation. We have an important job ahead of us. The Davidsonian is not in the business to “rag.” We are in the business of improving Davidson College. We need your help.

COATITO LONGO .......... Editor
Dave Keller .......... Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
COUN .......... Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
GUOIGTIY .......... Production Manager
AM@NOG FAN .......... Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson ........... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis .......... Advertising Editors
SOUTIIE .......... Circulation Manager
Warren Soule .......... Business Manager
MO GMOO .......... Cartoonist
Ann Garner .......... Asst. Projects Editor
Charles Erwin .......... Asst. Features Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 348, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $8.00.