April 1, 1977

——

Diversify Freshman Hall

[Continued from page 8]

What are the alternatives? What about random housing? By this I mean putting two freshman roommates on a hall with seniors, juniors, and sophomores. What can the hall counselor do that these people could not do? In essence, nothing.

The hall counselor cannot handle any really serious problem any more than anyone else who is not a professional counselor can. Random housing would facilitate the desegregation of the freshman class. It would expose the first-year student to the diversity of life that does exist at Davidson past the freshman hall. It would dispel the homogenous and sterile environment many freshmen experience their first year here, and allow adaptation to Davidson’s more complete, meaningful, and real.

No matter what system we adopt at Davidson, several freshmen will find the transition to college difficult. I believe that my proposal, however, has healthier secondary and tertiary effects while maintaining all the advantages of the hall counselor. It might even be that with random housing a freshman would not find himself with two upperclassmen from whom he could ask advice but ten.

And for those who find life at Davidson difficult no matter what the system, take heart, for it was either Manny Bock or Nietzsche who once said, “What does not kill me, makes me strong.”

Good Luck to Mr. Charles Lloyd and Steve Peeples, Bill Barnes, Howard Payne, Tom Ruby, and Aida Doss

North Carolina's first College Bowl

Psycho Features Terror

[Continued from page 11]

Gavin), concerned about her disappearance, follow clues till they reach the motel.

The secret to the film's impact is the secret to Hitchcock’s success in general: violence and terror are most frightening where and when they are least expected. Seeing a murder in a clean, well-lit room is a much greater threat to the viewer’s sense of security than seeing a murder in a dark alley, where such things are expected. Also effective is the amoral nature of Hitchcock's universe. We are hard-pressed to feel too much sympathy for the murderer's first victim, Marion; she is, after all, an adulteress and an embezzler.

The motel’s manager, Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins), has the languid nature of a mixed-up kid. We sense from early on that he is in some way involved with the violent crimes. And we are further disoriented when, in the final minutes of the film, the sacred icon of motherhood is not only kicked off its pedestal, but is equated with extreme lunacy.

Hitchcock is mainly effective as a virtuoso filmmaker, as evidenced by the ominously quiet atmosphere of the decaying house where Norman lives, and the hysteria which accompanies Marion’s murder.

The cast of Psycho also features Martin Balsam and Simon Oakland; and the atmospheric music and sound effects are the work of the late Bernard Herrmann. Be sure to take a shower before you go to see the movie; you may not want to take another one for several days afterwards.

APRIL FOOLS

BIKE-A-THON for MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY

Please support the SAE’s

Call 892-4743 for details

You may be paying too much for your hard and soft lens supplies. Send 13¢ stamp for price list. We can save you money.

CONTACT LENS SUPPLY CENTER 341 E. Camelback Rd. Phoenix, Arizona 85012

DCPC, 892-8594.

Students interested in forming a group to leave Friday and return Saturday, contact Rush Otey at

SATURDAY, APRIL 9 12 noon to 4 p.m.

A march from Auburn Avenue (at Jackson Street) to the Georgia State Capitol and a rally at the Capitol to witness against executions. Speakers will include religious and political leaders.

SATURDAY, APRIL 9 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.

Workshops on capital punishment: the laws, legal processes, organizing opposition, etc., led by lawyers, and others involved in criminal justice work. The workshops will be followed by music.

SUNDAY, APRIL 10, 6 a.m.

An Easter service of worship and celebration of the Resurrection and life as a call to witness against state-imposed death.

Atlanta, Georgia April 8, 9, 10, 1977

For More Information: WITNESS AGAINST EXECUTIONS 369 Connecticut Ave., NE Atlanta, Georgia 30307 [404] 373-3253 Murphy Davis, National Coordinator