| we need is
er Jennings)

The Davidsonian

—

DIAL-A-Lumni aids fund raising

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

With an expected total sum of $30,000-$35,000 received in pledges, the Dial-A-Lumni campaign underway this week and next is an obviously successful way to enrich the Living Endowment.

That amount, though, shrinks in the face of the prodigious sum of money Davidson College must raise each year.

Basically, the college has five sources of revenue: student tuition and fees; governmental appropriations, grants, and contracts; income from trusts and the Endowment; income from auxiliary enterprises; and gifts and private grants.

By far the college’s largest source of funds is student tuition; following it in magnitude is the revenue from auxiliary sources such as dormitory rentals.

The combined income from Davidson’s own endowment and other trusts, such as the Duke Endowment, revenue from gifts, and governmental income follow successively in the amount of money they generate. Miscellaneous sources also provide a substantial degree of revenue.

The Living Endowment (or Annual Fund), which falls in the category “Gifts”, has a manifest purpose in this scheme: after the college’s estimated income and expenditures are calculated, the Living Endowment sets out to generate the amount needed to make up the difference. (The Wildcat Club money does the same job in the athletic department.)

Alumni and friends of the college are asked to donate by several means. The first of these is the class chairman-class agent system, in which a designated member of each graduated class contacts his classmates and pushes for contributions. Those who have not responded by April are contacted by one or more class agents in each region.

Next, potential contributors are reached by regional Dial-A-Lumni programs in which alumni call alumni in one region of the country each year. Unresponsive alumni are sent four mailers during the year, with pleas to give included, and parents of students are hit for gifts. Finally, the college actively seeks out friends and graduates to join any of the “giving societies”, the Alenda ($100), the Libertas ($500), and the Ne Ultra ($1000).

According to Tom Bernhardt, director of the Living Endowment, a typical alumnus who doesn’t give regularly receives four letters from the college, a letter from his class chairman, a letter from a class agent, a call from a class agent, and a call from either a student, an alumnus, or both in the effort to persuade him to give.

THE GUEST HOUSE illustrates the emphasis put upon Davidson’s physical appearance.

(Hunter Jennings)

Poll

Number polled: 270

Students were asked to number their top spending priorities in a list consisting of a field house with swimming pool, new chemistry building, three-hole instructional golf facility, new dormitory, storage center, new eating facilities, renovation of Preyer Infirmary, Davidson National Drawing and Print Competition, lighting of tennis courts, increasing faculty salaries, new arts building, expansion of the gymnasium, expansion of WDAYV, increasing the library funding.

Results

Priority 1: New chemistry building

Priority 2: New eating facilities

Priority 3: New dormitory

Priority 4: Renovation of Infirmary

Priority 5: Increasing library funding

The Davidsonian apologizes to the History Department which does require its majors to take a seminar for graduation.

DAVIDSON FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

BUDGETS & PLANS

PRIORITIES

SCIENCE BUILDING
DORMITORY SPACE
PUBLICITY
LIBRARY FUNDS
GYMNASIUM
INFIRMARY
SALARIES
EATING FACILITIES
CAMPUS ART HOUSE
MAINTENANCE

Specific project

“We take the proposal to these people because they would be willing to donate to these projects. The college does not try to get them to offer to finance projects that are not top priorities. We finance the more important projects because we want to make their project in their name something they love,” said Spencer.

Money used for small expenditures is not saved for capital projects for two reasons, according to Spencer.

“A lot of those small projects are important for ongoing programs,” he said. “The second thing is that it would take an awful lot of those kinds of grants to finance a major project.”

Besides large grants for major projects, the college raises money for the endowment “which is a first priority thing because it’s an undergirding,” said Spencer.

“Annual support would be top priority if we see that falling,” said Dittman.

Through Project 150, Davidson College’s major fund raising drive, Spencer and Dittman hope to raise $35 million. The college would receive $400,000 annually for each $8 million in endowment.

Part of the campaign will revolve around the fact that Davidson is not a rich college. By publicizing this the college hopes to let people know the school does need money.

KNOWLEDGE AND TALENT APPLIED TO ECONOMIC PROBLEMS