March 11, 1977
The Davidsonian

By G. E. MICHALSON
Faculty Guest Columnist

Of the many Davidson syndromes, two in particular never fail to cause me a measure of disappointment. First, a student
who has missed a week of classes will invariably ask, "Did I miss anything important?" And second, whenever I depart
from a prepared lecture and share with the class a mixed bag of informal asides and reflections, someone always comes
up afterwards to inquire if this is "going to be on the test." I am reminded at such times of
the man who, with his wife and children present, was asked by Bertrand Russell: "If you could destroy the whole
world with the press of a single button, would you do it?" "What!" came the immediate reply, "And destroy my
library?!" Somewhere along the line, Russell’s friend—as they say—missed the point.

Opinion

It goes without saying that Davidson students face enormous grade pressure, given the difficulties of gaining admission to post-graduate programs
or securing desirable employment. At the same time, however, I’m troubled by the tendency during this scramble for post-graduate opportunities
to "miss the point" of spending four years at Davidson. If a Davidson education really becomes nothing more than a
means to a further end, then the potentially "liberating" liberal arts have, in fact, become "enslaving techniques;" students simply master
a variety of academic dog tricks and computer imitations, learned for the purpose of reaching the next rung on the
ladder. Such a result, it seems to me, would involve succumbing to some of the least attractive pressures evident in
American society.

The underlying issue here is whether Davidson, almost unconsciously, is going to play the social role that a traditionally anti-intellectual
culture, now pressed by apparently chronic economic difficulties, would, if left to its own devices, prescribe for it—the role of
a semi-vocational school, geared toward white-collar work, which squeezes out of its curriculum whatever is "useless" or irrelevant to the
practical needs of the marketplace. Ideally, of course, an academic institution identified as a "liberal arts college" is not primarily
a place where people prepare for "jobs." Instead, it is a place where people acquire certain sensibilities and habits of
mind which have a long-run qualitative (i.e., non-financial) impact on their lives, regardless of how they eventually choose to make
a living. A graduate of a liberal arts college is—again ideally—someone who knows the meaning of critical inquiry, who...

SGA becomes more effective

By BILL BARNETT
Editorial Page Editor

The SGA at Davidson has long been the target of much criticism and abuse. The charges leveled at the Senate
and its officers have ranged from inactivity and apathy to a general lack of intelligence. Without belittling the previous administrations,
it seems apparent that the current Senate has made lots of progress towards becoming the most active and influential student
organization on campus.

First, the Senate now is much more enthusiastic than in years past. All of the Senators are genuinely concerned about
their fellow students, and are working hard to improve Davidson in any way they can. They are excited about what
they are doing, and as a result are doing a better job.

In a more tangible sense, the SGA has already done some very good things. They have allocated a significant portion
of their budget to buying two brand-new television sets to be put in the Infirmary. As we all know, the
Infirmary needs much more than two television sets; however, this is a beginning, and a welcome one at that. Anyone
who has spent a few days at the Infirmary knows how much these televisions will be appreciated.

The Senate visitations program is also beginning to take effect now. It got off to a slow start, but is
now showing signs of becoming a legitimate way for students to air their complaints. Thom Young, the SGA president, points
to this as the Senate’s best achievement so far.

The Senate has also established several committees to look into problems on campus. One will work with students, faculty, and
the police to develop a more efficient campus security system. Another committee has been formed to look into the feasibility
of building a new dorm to be heated and cooled by solar energy. On the surface, this may seem to
be a pretty far-fetched idea, but it could turn out to be the ideal solution to Davidson’s housing problem. A
third committee has been formed to investigate the need for a two-to-one ratio of guys to girls at Davidson, and
the problems this set ratio causes.

Young reports that the Senate has gotten off to a good start in its relationship with the trustees. He met
with them several times over the Spring Break, and found them to be very open-minded. He was very encouraged by
his own dealings with them.

Finally, the SGA provided valuable transportation service for students going to and from the airport at break. Though there are
rumors that Young made a small fortune on this service and will soon join Robert Vescoe in the Bahamas, these
can probably be dismissed as the normal actions of a politician.

On the whole, the SGA is to be commended for its actions. Hopefully, they will continue to improve their service
to the students.and can avoid the problems which plagued the Senate in years past. I struggle with faculty who enjoy
ideas for their own sake, who are distrustful of authoritarianism, who refuse to take the reigning cultural values for granted,
and who are not content simply to be pious, positive, and patriotic. All of this is particularly important to remember
given our culture’s tendency to take as its benchmark of a prominent college a winning athletic program and a precision
marching band—the ultimate images, someone once suggested, of “children doing exactly what they’re told.” Insofar as even Davidson has officially
located much of its identity in the high visibility afforded by a successful and costly basketball program, it has already
conformed to the reigning cultural standard. (But then, as someone—not at Davidson—once said to me, “Nobody ever gave money to
a college because it had a good faculty.”) Accordingly, it becomes especially crucial for Davidson students to take seriously the
non-practical, non-utilitarian aspects of their college experience—those aspects which don’t fall into the “means” part of the “means-end” sequence. Otherwise,
“education” threatens to become “domestication,” the process by which curious and presumably intelligent 18-year-olds become members of the American marketplace.
And an institution like Davidson, almost by default, invariably becomes nothing more than a “finishing school” for the children of
those who call the shots in that marketplace. Kingman Brewster of Yale recently suggested that “the more harried life becomes,
the more narrowly specialized all callings become, the more important it is to have some people around who are concerned
with the quality of life and mind and spirit in the society as a whole, not just some specialized corner
of it.” It would be nice to think that Davidson is producing some of those people. But to ensure that
this happens, students need to cultivate educational horizons which go beyond the immediate demands of career preparation.

To the Editor:

This is my first letter to any newspaper, but upon reading Chuck Kennon’s article of several weeks ago on vandalism
and subsequent examples of this irrational phenomenon on campus, I feel impelled to respond. My response is not so much
to Mr. Kennon, but to all Davidson vandals in general whose mentality I cannot fathom. When I talk about vandalism,
there is a difference between pranks which may be pesky but are neither malicious nor destructive and vandalism which is
costly and destructive. I refer to demolishing the restroom and the pinball room in the Union. I am talking about
burning signs in Chambers and the dorms which damage the walls, and graffiti-covered stalls and walls which are constantly having
to be repainted. (The graffiti lacks originality and becomes grosser and more embarrassing.) Vandalism costs amounted to more than $10,000
last year which is 3% of students’ tuition (minus laundry, food, housing) for one year. It is the student who
is being deprived of educational programs, additional faculty, library books, and athletic facilities. Perhaps more than the damage to property,
it is the mindset which the author and his sources represent that bothers me the most. They evidently destroy out
of tedium, frustration, and anger. Another excuse often given is being drunk or stoned, but then I understand many people
get in that condition to alleviate the former emotions. There seems to me to be a sharp contradiction between the
liberally educated person and the individual who has not learned to control or to cope with his emotions and his
impulses. It surely indicates a lack of self-discipline and the inability to handle tension or relief in a mature and
constructive manner. Vandalism is illustrative of immaturity and a poor value structure. Most people learned in kindergarten that when one
ran into the table and hurt oneself one didn’t kick the table but learned to walk around it. I guess
some Davidsonians skipped that stage of development and now they destroy walls, start fires, and break ceilings. The final thing
that troubles me is the way other students tolerate the vandalism of their fellow students. These persons seem unaware that
they are paying for the damage, not just the person having the tantrum. Such spinelessness is depressing. We have a
fine campus. A lot of treasure and energy is spent keeping it in good repair. Most students take pride in
it, if they do not exercise responsibility in preserving it. I believe it is time for all of us not
addicted to the ghetto mentality to straighten out the situation. When I can find the perpetrator of the damage, I
shall see that the matter is prosecuted under the Code of Responsibility and that graduate school recommendations reflect such violations
of the Code. There is also a state law which prosecutes those who deface buildings belonging to private educational institutions
with a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00), imprisonment for no more than six months, or both. I would
encourage individuals whose cars are damaged, as promised in Mr. Kennon’s article, to seek civil action against the vandal. It
is time for people of Davidson students’ intelligence and rumored good upbringing to grow up, learn self-control, and attempt to
stand up to those who cannot or will not mature.

Will H. Terry
Dean of Students
Davidson College
