ie vaviosonian

wuivuci f, lott

2

“A man labeled ‘one of the world’s most influential thinkers’ by the Washington Post will be on campus early next
week to jar apathetic students with the problem of world hunger.

As the year’s first Reynolds lecturer, noted author Lester R. Brown will discuss ‘Accommodating Human Needs and Numbers to the
Earth’s Resources’ at 8 p.m. on Tuesday in the college church.

During the 10:00 break on Wednesday morning, he will lecture on ‘Population: Trends and Prospects’ in Chambers Gallery.

Influential thinker comes to discuss world hunger

As author of Man, Land, and Food, Seeds of Change, World Without Borders, In the Human Interest, and By Bread
Alone, Brown is considered a leading authority on these basic world problems.

Brown is President and Senior Researcher of the World Watch Institute, an organization devoted to the analysis of global issues.
He is also a member of the Council of Foreign Relations, the U.S. Committee for UNICEF, and Zero Population Growth.

Guitar man comes down

Songwriter Henry Gross will top off the Saturday night Homecoming concert with first-string guitar play.

Gross does not object to coming down for the weekend. “Traveling is a pleasure for me and I really enjoy
playing. It’s fun and it gives me ideas for my songwriting,” said the man who will perform at 8 p.m.
in Love.

“Henry Gross was one of the original members of the 1950’s resurrectionists Sha Na Na,” said Bruce Meyer. “Gross has
a good voice, writes first-class songs with a touch of tongue-in-cheek humor and plays a searing guitar.”

Gross has released three albums: Henry Gross, Plug Me Into Something, and Release.

LESTER BROWN will prod students with global issues next Tuesday and Wednesday.

Big-top goes up

The Stebbing Royal European Circus will be raising the Big-Top on the Davidson Village Green for two shows next Friday,
October 14.

“In Europe you can only use the title ‘Royal’ when you have given a command performance,” circus owner Bill Stebbing
said of his group which has played before Queen Elizabeth and ten other sovereigns.

Stebbing himself traces his family back to the court jesters and roving entertainers which roamed across Europe several centuries ago.
This circus, which will give shows at 4:30 and 7:30 p.m., only immigrated to America several years ago.

“It’s time the American people got to see a real circus—not the burlesque and nightclub acts of the big circuses
here,” Stebbing boasted on his 20-act show.

Day-of-performance tickets will go for $2.75, $1.75 for children. Up to that time the college is offering reduced prices to
adults for $2 and to children for $1.25. Advanced prices for all performances are $5.00.

Forty watercolors by two contemporary New York State artists were splashed onto the walls of the Union lobby today. They
are to remain on display until October 22.

Old Bergen Art Guild of Bayonne, New Jersey, is circulating the works of Bohdan Osyczka and Margaret Martin. All are
available for purchase at prices ranging from $300 to $500.

Osyczka’s watercolors have been previously exhibited with the American Watercolor Society, American Veterans Society of Artists, Silvermine Guild of Artists
and various other galleries in America and Bermuda.

Martin has attended watercolor workshops in Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, Yugoslavia, Mexico, Morocco, and Jamaica. She is a member of
the American Watercolor Society, Buffalo Society of Artists and several other groups.

BERMUDA TRIANGLE: Sandy on fiddle, Wendy on bass guitar, and Roger on electrified guitar.

Triangular trio performs here

Anybody planning to disappear on Saturday night had better not blame it on the Bermuda Triangle, the first band to
be featured on the October 8 Homecoming Concert.

After the concert, they will be the sole performers in the 900 Room at 10:30 p.m.

“Bermuda Triangle are first rate... whether sprightly as in the oldie ‘Alligator Man’, or tender as in the beautiful version
of the ‘Moody Blues’ and ‘Nights in White Satin’,” said a Variety review.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

THE SHOP Electronic Service and Sales

173 N. Main Street MOORESVILLE

First Union National

DAVIDSON
