By KEVIN SHELLY Staff Writer | {Editor's Note: Immediately after the Phillies blew it again for the second straight year,
Ralphy bought a case of Rolling Rock Beer and went into seclusion. This means that Shelly is writing solo, so
be kind in judgment.}

I really don’t relish carping all the time. Seriously, I'd really prefer to be deliriously happy and carefree, like I
was in my youth, instead of always running into mood destroyers. In fact, I even defended happiness as a goal
in an English course once while arguing with the department's resident cynic. I’m sure he was surprised at first that
I, of all creatures, was for happiness as a goal, but I’m sure that after a while he realized that
like him and all cynics, I really just wanted something to believe in, trust, and be content and happy with.

Back in high school one of my teachers, the one I admired most and who divorced his wife who belly
danced to marry the editor of the yearbook the year after I left, used me as an example of what
a cynic was to one of his other English classes. That stung quite a bit when I found out about
it, and it sent me seeking the road of moderation and acceptance, but I guess I’m still far from there.
But I'm working on it. At least I don’t feel compelled to be the social conscience of Davidson or anything
quite so monumental. Maybe I’m losing my sensitivity with coming old age. We golden agers have to conserve our outrages,
I suppose. Ah, youth!

Anyway, I know I'm drawing this out, mostly because I'm a bit embarrassed about complaining about something that is almost
sacred in the pantheon of American thought, something so fondly and sentimentally remembered in connection with the joy of innocent,
naive youth. What put the burr under the saddle was the Stebbing Circus. Oh hell, you say. Me too. At
least part of me. Truly, I wish to recapture my innocence, just like everyone else. Jadedness is not a trait
that is to be desired, is it? But it isn’t jadedness that turns me against this family act. In fact,
I went precisely because it was a one-ring family affair. No media hype about the greatest show, no star-studded extravaganza;
basic entertainment and nothing too slick. Manageable dimensions, nobody you have ever seen staring at you from the tube or
the National Enquirer.

Ah, I wish I could cast my vote with Moreland Hogan, Editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette who wrote a fond
and folksy tribute to the circus, but I can’t. The animal acts are what got me. First I went by
early in the afternoon, on my way elsewhere, but I waylaid myself and ended up watching the elephants being groomed.
Unlike the big cats caged and pacing behind them, the elephants seemed rather carefree as they pulled up plugs of
grass and consented to being curried with a scrub brush. But the restraining chains on their legs left me feeling
not quite comfortable and I probably should have known not to go but, what the hell, I'd already bought the
ticket. You could probably get an Irishman to go to his own funeral, if you gave him the ticket.

Americans seem to have quite a penchant for entertaining themselves with someone else's foolishness, as the success of “Candid Camera”
and the truly pernicious “Gong Show” illustrate so well. The one thing about those shows that does redeem them, somewhat,
is that everyone who appears on them consents to do so. In fact, people fight to have the honor of
being an ass on the “Gong Show”. More on that some other time, perhaps.

But Little Lou, who hopefully someday will become Big Lou, hadn’t auditioned for the part as a cute little critter.
The crooked stick used in elephant training was thankfully and discreetly not in view. But the elephant hadn't learned to
do un-elephant-like tricks just because he was bored and thought walking across a beam looked like more fun than just
munching on hay all day. Obviously, the animals in this circus were well cared for, relative to animals in similar
shows: the chimpanzees even produced a baby during the last year. Not meaning to stretch a point too far, but
lost for any better comparison, humans in bondage to other humans are often well cared for, but that doesn’t make
the situation any more acceptable.

October 21, 1977

Animals in captivity for research and educational purposes are quite different from those kept for entertainment purposes, and I'm not
arguing about all wild animals kept unnaturally, just those exploited meaninglessly for man’s pleasure. Seems to me that the College
Union should get out of the sponsorship of this particular form of entertainment. After all, watching people at a 900
Room disco is really twice as good as anything an old elephant can do, with or without a balance beam.
See you there some Thursday night, at Davidson's own circus.

Laborites charge harassment

To the Editor:

At Davidson College, October 11th (Tuesday night), four colleagues and I from the U.S. Labor Party attempted to propose a
valid and rational alternative to Lester Brown's call for zero growth, de-industrialization, and an end to progress. Such an alternative,
in brief, would be premised...Upon the implementation of a fusion-powered expansion of science and technology, allowing the advancement of the
world’s cultural and skill levels—an actual humanist program. In response to an attempt to rationally challenge his presentation, Lester Brown
went to some length to avoid the issue. That is Mr. Brown's right...and the preferred strategy of any intellectual fraud.
However, the especially distressing aspect was the abrupt action of C. Shaw Smith to end any discussion by fiat—he peremptorily
ordered our removal from campus as we were engaging in discussion with students in front of the church after the
presentation. I was physically manhandled, removed from campus without any warning, without any explanation, and without any identification of my
accosters. When off campus, I was threatened with arrest for being in Davidson. Mr. Smith has left a suspicious trail.
Contrary to his claims (according to the police), he did not indicate any problem to any of our members, nor
did he ask any of us to leave campus. It is very likely that the only true claim was that
we were “controversial to the speaker."

The issue that the Davidson College academic community must face immediately is that a hysterical and sometimes vicious anti-intellectual disease—notorious
for its destruction of the German universities in the 1930s, and all-too-pervasive in the United States in the last ten
years—is now taking root at Davidson. This disease strikes when international monetarist financial institutions defend their old paper valuations against
the necessity of the human race to bring online new technologies. Science is necessary to resolve the “energy crisis” of
the previous mode of technology in favor of the human species, and of the biosphere as a whole. The society’s
capability to engage in a public process of deliberation is vital to the generation and implementation of a winning strategy.
To undermine that capability, such anti-human fascists must degrade a population—manipulating ignorance, fear, and guilt to put that population through
the experience of facing the (very real) crises of the world stripped of access to any actually positive, humanist solution
(e.g., who are you to dare to think you could transform the world? Since the world doesn’t really need you,
isn’t the best you can do is just to reduce what you take from the world and help out in
some small way?). Any intrusion into this controlled environment by addressing the capabilities for creative mentation of the population threatens
to break this environment—witness the desperate retaliation that resulted Tuesday night. This is the disease. The cure is a healthy
dose of rational, public deliberation, premised upon the unique quality of creative mentation, differentiating humans from beasts, that has been
at the core of human culture. We are open to a public presentation at Davidson College, provided that serious challenges
to our presentation be allowed—even those “controversial to the speaker.”

David Shairin
U.S. Labor Party

---

More Colostomy BS

To the Editor:

Listen as I, Ancient Mariner-like, tell you what really happened to Colostomy, which sank in port, still tied to the
dock, long before its maiden voyage. Tony Snow’s fish stories become more ridiculous with each retelling; I fear our martyred
editor has drifted into the shoal waters of balminess. Thus come I to his rescue.

---

Thanks!

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Davidson College Chapter of Scabbard and Blade, and the American National Red Cross, we would like
to express our gratitude to all those who made last Tuesday’s Blood Drive a tremendous success. We exceeded our quota
of 217 pints by almost 60 pints of blood donated. By exceeding this quota, we have provided complete “blood insurance”
to the entire college community, should the need arise in an emergency.

Rick Fay '78
Scabbard and Blade
Davidson College

---

Dean of Sex

To the Editor:

If the Davidsonian is so opposed to “sexism,” why do you display a full-page advertisement featuring Siglinda Steinfuller, the “Dean
of Beer”?

John Highsmith ’80
Davidson College

---

The visionary founders of Colostomy were united in an interest in writing satire, the feeling that an alternative publication might
stir up the stale Davidson air and finally a total and complete ignorance of the nuts and bolts of journalism.
Consequently, we held meeting after meeting at which essentially nothing was accomplished; collected money; and held still more meetings. Only
one person did anything constructive. That person was Mike Morris, upon whom Snow inexplicably tried to place the blame in
his latest interview. Mike roamed the streets of Charlotte for more than a few hours looking for ads and other
financial support. He also opened a checking account, for, you see, we literary lions were too busy being creative to
walk across the street and put the three hundred bucks in the bank.

In Snow’s previous Colostomy interview, he blamed the “paucity of creative enterprise” at Davidson for Colostomy’s demise (You’re in the
wrong racket, Tony—dressing up tiny ideas in multisyllables makes you sociology material). This time, it’s Snow-the-Editor battling nobly but, alas,
futilely against an “undisciplined” staff. Now Snow may have spent many hours hunched over his Smith-Corona pounding out copy as
his treacherous retainers dissipated, but I wonder. For Tony is not one to, er, hide his exploits under a cover
of false modesty. In a less explicit time, his claims might have been called horse manure.

Bob Westmoreland '77
Greenghorn
