March 11, 1977

The Davidsonian

3

PARK wants the library to be more than just a place to study.

(Hunter Jennings)

Student committee serves library

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

A student committee has been formed to accept suggestions and develop programs to improve the services of the E.H. Little Library.

The Ad Hoc Student Advisory Committee to the Library Director has eight members and communicates directly with Dr. Leland Park.

One of the committee’s first duties will be to solicit suggestions from students for a new “periodicals for pleasure” program.

“The academic departments order the periodicals now in the library,” explained committee member Jim Entwistle. “Money is available to order periodicals that people can read purely for pleasure—activity-oriented or special-interest publications.

“If any students have suggestions for such ‘pleasure reading,’ please tell the committee.

“This program reflects Dr. Park’s desire to make the library a pleasant place to come when a student has free time, not just a place to study.”

Other members of the committee are: Mark Scandling, Joe Craig, Robert Carlton, Anne Wicker, Ralph Yielding, Ben Simms, and Holmes Harden.

Davidson receives Grant; foresees faculty growth

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Asst. News Editor

The Mellon Foundation granted Davidson College $230,000 to be used primarily for faculty development.

Vice-President of Academic Affairs, Frontis Johnston, is chairman of a committee responsible for appropriating the money.

He said that Davidson was probably selected for the grant because the college was interested in faculty development and this goal coincided with a goal of the Mellon Foundation at the time of the grant.

“They are providing means for our faculty members to recharge their batteries, continue their professional growth, and to continue with new ideas in their particular fields.”

Johnston’s committee has not decided where all the money will go, but it has allotted portions of it to programs concerning outside examiners, the Honors Center, and the Humanities program.

The function of the outside examiners, usually professors from Duke or UNC, is to give oral examinations to economics majors, part of their major requirements.

The money going to the Humanities program will fund a review of that program. A team of faculty members will devote five weeks of the summer to evaluating Humanities and writing a new syllabus.

In addition to these programs, the committee is considering ten or twelve other applications from faculty members.

Johnston remarked, “I want to leave a good deal (of money) for the next person,” referring to the next committee chairman. Johnston is retiring at the end of the year.

Some of the proposals under consideration include more sabbaticals, faculty exchanges with other schools (possibly European), and faculty computer courses.

“I believe the continual growth in members of our faculty is vital to the quality of our program in the present and the future.

“Without means to encourage and stimulate further scholarship and research, the quality of our program would suffer,” Johnston concluded.

Senior class leaves dramatic gift

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

The 1977 Senior Class has chosen a portable electronic dimming system for the Drama Department as their class gift.

Drama professor Joe Gardner says the compact and portable dimmer system will enable the Drama Department to “change the Drama Workshop adjacent to Hodson Hall into a totally flexible experiential theatre for student-produced plays.”

The system, which will cost $2400, will be able to be located anywhere in the room and will “maintain the initial purpose of flexibility and still allow for a great deal of creative experimentation on the part of students involved,” Gardner adds.

“Furthermore, such a system can be moved temporarily to other facilities, such as the new Schoolhouse of the Arts.”

The gift was chosen by a committee headed by Senior Class President Tony Snow and consisting of Ken Chadwick, Tom Cooper, Sabra Faires, Pat Hudson, Chuck Kennon, Jeff Morrow, Mark Rabil, Mark Scandling, Tim Sellers, Jeff Sich, Ruth Murphy, John Allen Tucker, and Cory Young.

They chose the dimmer system because they felt it would enable the class to make a critical contribution to the college.

As Tom Bernhardt, Director of the Living Endowment, commented, “The growth of drama in the next five years depends upon the experiential Drama Workshop room. The first step in making that room available is the lighting.”

Other suggestions which were overruled were lights for the tennis courts, giving Herb Jackson $2000 to purchase a piece of artwork from a New York auction, and a magazine subscription or book acquisition fund.

Bernhardt feels the only objection to the choice of the dimmer board over the other suggestions is the dimmer board only affects a small part of the school.

Gardner answers the objection by pointing out, “Theatre at Davidson has grown to the point where it now represents one of the most popular extracurricular activities on campus, involving about fifteen percent of the student body with a healthy turnover from year to year. Audience attendance for 1975-76 reached over 4600 and this figure is still growing.”

The committee hopes to raise the money from the class by the spring production so they can see the dimmer board in effect.

ETCETERA
121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

JEANS FOR MEN AND LADIES
NEW SHIPMENT OF LADIES’ SHIRTS

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10:00-5:00
Closed Wednesdays

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030