By STEVE HOLMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson students eating at Slater use 15,000 plastic cups a week. Because of the serious environmental complications related to the
production of plastic, as well as those of solid waste disposal, a group of concerned students is working to reduce
this huge figure.

Paper cup campaign prompts action

Twenty-eight percent of the energy used by industry.

The main thrust of this conservation campaign, however, will be to cut the number of cups used. The reason is
simple: fewer cups mean less waste of raw materials.

Moreover, we have become so dependent on disposable containers, utensils, wrapping, and so on, that we now face a very
serious waste disposal problem.

Furthermore, those in charge of the conservation program encourage people to bring their own glasses. This is, of course, the
most environmentally sound path, and as such is what the initiators of the program hope to effect.

As a stimulus, Ron Scott has agreed to donate one cent to CROP for every cup saved. Though one cent
is not at first glance impressive, if only one half of the students brought their own glasses nearly $75 would
be amassed in a single week for donation.

Ultimately, the originators of the cup campaign hope to raise the student consciousness concerning environmental issues. Various student groups are
attempting to start the campus-wide recycling of various materials, in which student participation will be extremely important.

As a preliminary step, Ron Scott has agreed to substitute paper cups for plastic ones; although this does not solve
the problem, paper is not as environmentally damaging as plastic.

Plastic is generally non-biodegradable and thus a pollutant; it may be burned, but in most cases forms a toxic gas.
Moreover, plastic is a petrochemical, very significant in light of our dwindling energy supplies.

In 1973, the National League of Cities declared solid waste to be the most urgent issue cities face, and predicted
half the nation’s cities would exhaust their disposal capacity by 1978. Americans annually throw away 160 million tons of material,
or roughly four pounds of trash per person per day.

In light of these facts, certainly it is highly irresponsible to use 15,000 cups a week, on the average over
three cups per student per meal. If students used only one cup per meal there would be a dramatic drop
in waste.

As one student said, “Hopefully students will realize they can no longer afford the easy insulation offered by Davidson's impregnable
academic fog and idyllic setting.”
