April 8, 1977

The Davidsonian

An editorial immortalized

Last spring we had a Davidson National. We miss it.

Evaluations nailed

One of the Davidson students’ favorite pastimes is complaining about teachers. Yet the return of the Senate Course Evaluation form was embarrassingly low. Dr. Kaylor asks, “If the students have that low an interest it makes one wonder about the real value of the evaluation.”

Come on, Davidson. This educational institute is severely limiting itself without some sort of student evaluation considering the potentially valuable criticism (positive and negative) students can offer.

If the confidentiality issue stands in the way we could reach a compromise system. The Academic Vice-President could organize a confidential evaluation elicited from both students and faculty peers while the Senate could draw up a course description which could be distributed to the students to aid them in course selection.

Whatever the compromise we at least need some recourse. And it needs to be a valuable tool, not a facade.

Exchange sacrificed

Something’s missing. We've heard too many students and too many faculty members complain about the lack of student/faculty communication.

It’s not that no one is trying. Scheduled songfests, faculty-student days, and advisee dinners are fine. But what we’re all missing is the spontaneous interaction that shows us that both groups are human.

The lack of communication results in more than the lack of interchange of ideas and the outlet for social relaxation. Both students and faculty need each other’s aid in instigating positive change.

What too few of both groups realize is that in too many issues we’re on the same side. We should take advantage of that fact; we have a lot we could be doing.

Defend drinking rights

Davidson is developing a paternalistic attitude concerning student drinking. Underneath the concern over Union rules is a moralistic, condescending feeling that drinking is wrong, is rampant, and should be stopped.

But no one is standing up for the basic right to drink. That right is psychological as well as simply legalistic if we are to view drinking as mature human beings.

It is not the Union rules under which we cringe but the attitude. The college condemns what is the students’ responsibility. It imposes morals upon us when we have the right and ability to develop our own.

People over 18 have the legal responsibility to determine when and how much they drink. If the college takes this responsibility it is acting more like a summer camp than an institution of higher education.

The Davidsonian Staff

Editor
Dave Kellot

Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins

News Editors
Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle

Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell

Sports Editors
Production Manager
Amanda Hall

Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson

Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis

Advertising Editors
Circulation Manager
Business Manager
Cartoonist
Asst. Projects Editor
Asst. Features Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Opinion

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Extreme measures cannot be met with more extremities. At least if either side hopes to solve anything.

The Union Board Executive Committee (UBEC) has proposed to restrict the sale of beer in the 900 Room, to close the 900 Room or entire Union, and/or hire a patrolling supervisor from 4 pm to 1 am.

The reason: the abuse of alcohol, vandalism, and theft in the Union.

Extreme measure one:

Catherine Landis, in her editorial of April 1, describes the proposals as ‘moralistic’, and ‘high school disciplinary procedure’. More importantly, she states if students want to get drunk and pass out and if they want to come into the 900 Room nude that is their business.

Granted, the UBEC proposals are drastic. Any of them, if put into effect, will force many students to pay for the abuses of a few.

C. Shaw Smith’s reasoning is that the students are acting like children and must be dealt with as such.

Landis’ reaction to this only accents Smith’s belief. Her statement that students can act as they choose because they are adults lacks logical sense. Adults do not act as they please; they act with consideration for others.

Drinking into a stupor generally entails vomiting and almost always entails having someone take care of you. Consideration? Hardly.

Entering the 900 Room nude forces another person to see your naked body—something they probably would rather not see. Inconsiderate again.

Landis speaks of the moralistic tone of the proposals. Her reaction is more moralistic than those because either drunkenness or nudity force one’s own morals on another person. Of course, the offended persons can leave the 900 Room, but the Union is a public building.

Public drunkenness and nudity are punishable by the law. Either in the privacy of one’s home are not.

Smith and the UBEC are responsible for the Union and for regulating the actions of the people in it. When the students do not act responsibly the UBEC must step in.

Landis threatens if the students are treated as children they will act like children.

Smith evidently believes some of the students are already acting like children.

Landis’ editorial proved Smith correct?

The Union Board passed the proposal to restrict the sale of beer, giving the students a chance to take responsibility.

If they, like responsible adults, remain within the rules the Union personnel will treat them as such. Extreme reactions will only force harsher measures.