Informal inquiry of Linden case
National AAUP requests information
By EMILY MASON and KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writers

At the request of the National headquarters of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), the Davidson chapter of the AAUP appointed two committees on Monday to compile information on the history of the religious requirement for tenure at Davidson.

Professor of history Malcolm Lester, President of the Davidson Chapter of AAUP, appointed the two committees, which will provide the National headquarters with three items:
1) A document of the history of Davidson’s religious requirement for tenure and how it has evolved through time,
2) A narrative account of the Linden case, entailing a factual, chronological compilation of the day-by-day sequence of events and correspondences surrounding Linden’s appointment to the political science department and the subsequent withdrawal of the college’s offer to Linden.
3) A statement from the Davidson Chapter regarding its position on the question of Davidson's current tenure policy.

The Chapter met and voted without dissent to support the same resolution which the faculty then passed on Tuesday. The faculty resolution said, in part, “we urgently request the Trustees of Davidson College to remove the religious requirement for tenure from their By-Laws and entrust the matter of recruiting faculty members to the President and other officers of the college, using as their guide the Statement of Purpose of the College.”

The National AAUP was formed to “look to the well-being of people teaching at graduate and undergraduate institutions,” according to Donald L. Kimmel, Chairman of the biology department and last year’s Chapter President for the AAUP. In 1940, the National AAUP established guidelines for tenure policy. Schools across the country then publicly announced their individual intentions to grant tenure either in accordance with these guidelines, or based on the school’s private policy. The AAUP requested the formation of these “fact-finding” committees to provide the organization with background material on the Linden case, said Kimmel. Joseph E. Schwartz, Associate General Secretary of the AAUP, said

Task Force tackles Tenure
By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Christian Tenure Policy has been the direct concern of the newly created Student-Faculty Task Force on the Religious Requirements for Tenure.

Prepare for Trustees

For the past two weeks this SGA-based committee has originated and conducted all actions dealing with the controversial tenure policy. Its actions have included an organized letter writing campaign last week to familiarize Davidson’s Trustees with the present controversy as a preliminary to their tri-annual meeting to be held this week. It sponsored a community meeting Monday night to discuss the controversy. It has written and distributed a petition calling for a reevaluation and change in the present tenure policy. The task force has also prepared a case statement, approved unanimously by the SGA, to be read to the Trustees this week. Specifically, the statement finds the religious requirements for tenure at Davidson objectionable on three main arguments.

The statement argues that the present policy is objectionable because it confuses the issue of Christian commitment with Christian tenure. Davidson’s Christian commitment is not an issue... “we affirm the moral principles promulgated in the Statement of Purpose... The goal of an academic institution is to provide the best possible education for its students. This means that it should seek not only the best minds available but those persons who exemplify the love of truth, respect for human dignity and unselfish desire to serve... It is clear that (these values) can be embraced by both Christian and non-Christian...”

Secondly, the present policy is “unwise from an academic point of view.” In light of recent publicity in that it can only serve to erode “Davidson’s standing within the academic community.” Several candidates for employment have recently withdrawn their applications upon learning of the college’s tenure policy.

Lastly, the case statement finds the present tenure policy objectionable on “religious grounds.” It states that “the current exclusive hiring policy seems inconsistent with the Christian virtues of love and toleration...”

[see TASK, page 6]

Ceasing publication

With this issue The Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1976-77 school year. Publication will resume September 1977, for the 1977-78 year. The Davidsonian extends 1977 and wishes everyoneLast Friday, Schwartz stated that “the inquiry is very informal at this point. We’re at the stage of listen and learn.” Schwartz explained that, in inquiries of this type, the AAUP “looks at the printed word first and then supplements it with recollections of those involved.” “We get the facts and then assess them against our standards,” Schwartz continued. “If we determine there is a problem existing, we bring that assessment to the administration with our facts and ask them to comment.” Finally, according to Schwartz, the AAUP “makes a recommendation to the administration” which “hopefully leads to a resolution of one kind or another.”

W. BROWN PA spoke on the history of Christian tenure at Davidson at the College Community meeting (Hunter Jennings).

Turnover of Counseling Staff Vacates Positions for 77-78
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Dean of Students Will Terry has not found replacements for Davidson College’s three psychological counselors, none of whom are returning next year.

Hankins Elected, Board Plans Code
By PHILIP D. DUNCAN
News Editor

The Media Board elected sophomore Greg Hankins as its chairman and finalized plans to draw up a Code of Responsible Journalism for all student media at its meeting this week. Hankins appointed junior Bert Downs, sophomore Tom Bessellieu, and Admissions Counselor Leonard Satterwhite to draw up the code. This subcommittee will refer to documents from other schools that have media boards similar to Davidson’s and will report to the Media Board in its next meeting on Tuesday. Hankins confirmed that the Board will present a statement, including the Code, to the College’s Board of Trustees at their October meeting. The Board discussed its relationship with the Publications Board, the WDAV Board of Control (which is presently considering the specifics of a proposal to expand the radio station), and also considered its role in determining the budgets of the student media. These and other matters will be considered in the future.

Graduating senior Matthew Covington is the only current Board member who will not return to serve next year. In addition to Hankins, Downs, Bessellieu, and Satterwhite, Robert A. Currie, Director of News and Photography, Earl W. “Buck” Lawrimore, Dean of Students Will Terry, and Professor of German Julius S. Winkler serve on the Board.

Dr. Amelia Dockery is moving to France for two years, Dr. Meredith Hall is not returning next year, and Dr. W. Gatewood Workman is retiring. “We’re going to try our best to have coverage five days a week,” said Terry. This year the counselors cover only four days, but an outside evaluating team described the available counseling time as adequate for the number of students at Davidson. Terry plans to hire at least two and hopefully three counselors so that students will have the opportunity to choose the counselor with whom they can most effectively work. These counselors will alternate hours as Dockery, Hall, and Workman do this year.

The College has only $16,000 allocated for psychological counselors, so Terry is forced to hire either members of the college community or counselors from Charlotte if he plans to hire more than one psychologist. Terry says this restricts the market from which he can choose and makes the hiring process more difficult. At present, he is interviewing members of the counseling team from Charlotte, each of whom will work part-time at Davidson. “There is a strong possibility that we will have greater access to a psychiatrist for referrals, an occasional visit, or the prescribing of drugs,” he said. He does not want the psychiatrist to have specific days on which he will be on campus because of the possibility of students labeling this day as the time for “real crazies” to receive help. Instead, he hopes the psychiatrist will be available in emergencies or on campus periodically.

Terry emphasizes the need for a team concept for the counseling center, where he hopes the counselors will work closely together. He also hopes to initiate “groups developed by the counseling staff which could provide preventative measures for the students,” he said. Although he has definite ideas of how he would like to see the counseling center function, Terry does not want to “control the style or content of counseling sessions between individuals. My ultimate concern is to help students find the counseling they need.”