October 28, 1977 The Davidsonian

IMAC Report: Bongs waste number one KA’s

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

Wednesday, October 18th: The lights of the house have been turned down low, but one can still see the numerous bodies scattered across the front yard in their torn and bloody garments. The flag is at half-mast. On the back porch of the small house sits a once-proud warrior in a gray uniform, head in hands. He weeps large tears that slowly trickle into his grey beard. Could this be Robert E. Lee weeping over Appomattox? No, it’s just H-man mourning his team’s loss to the carpetbaggers and scalawags of the Bongs.

The KA’s had gone 16 games in a row without tasting the bitter pill of defeat. During this stretch, they amassed reputations and records in the manner of Bud Wilkinson's Oklahoma Sooners or Johnny Wooden's UCLA Bruins. But Goliath met his David on that autumn afternoon. The Bongs were no patsies. They had produced winning seasons for four straight years—yet remained in relative obscurity. Behind the arm of Clayton Rogers (27 for 38, 345 yards—only 15 yards short of P. Minter’s 1934 record), the Bongs pulled the upset of the season. Clayton must now fight a constantly ringing phone and battle reporters just to get to class. His sidekicks, Steve Justus and David Swaim, have both moved into plush apartments on the outskirts of Cornelius and have tried to remain low-key in preparation for the upcoming tourney.

Don't get us wrong. The KA’s are nowhere near finished. Inside word has it that in some of their last closed practices and film...

[Hunter Jennings]

Runners clobber opponents

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson cross-country team hosted a 4-way meet on Saturday, Oct. 15, and ran its best race of the year. The Wildcats clobbered Georgia State and J.C. Smith, while losing to Wake Forest, to close out their dual meet season with a 6-5 record. Coty Pinckney again led the squad and finished fourth after dueling with Wake’s top three runners for the majority of the race. His time of 32:15 is a record for Davidson’s 10,000-meter course. In addition, the team’s depth asserted itself, and John Davis, George Strobel, Bart Landess, and Jeff Morrow finished ninth, thirteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth respectively. Also scoring were Vasili Carperos, nineteenth, and improving junior Bob Sweet, who was twentieth.

On the 22nd, at the State Cross-Country Championships in Raleigh, Pinckney had the greatest race of his career and blitzed to a triumphant thirteenth place finish and a school record 31:53 clocking for 10,000 meters. It was the highest finish in a state meet for a Davidson runner since 1964, and Pinckney now holds virtually all of the school’s cross-country records. However, the Wildcats could only manage a ninth-place finish as a team, as the remainder of the squad finished well back in the field of 65 runners. Davis was forty-fourth, Landess fifty-third, Strobel fifty-fourth, Morrow fifty-fifth, Tom Scott sixtieth, and Carperos sixty-fourth.

Davidson's final meet, the Southern Conference Championships, will be held on Nov. 5th at VMI, where Furman and Appalachian State are the favorites.

THE SOP Electronic Service
173 N. Main Street
MOORESVILLEsessions, they have been using the Houston veer along with several of the crossing options for the swingman. The black cloud was not only over the KA house last week. It also managed to darken up the plans of some of the beach boys at the SAE house. After losing to an inspired-from-above Old Men team (the game was played on the Sabbath), dissension has wreaked havoc upon the khaki-colored clan. Several players have expressed dissatisfaction with both the front office and the coaching staff. (In this case, it's the same person.) Jim “My voice has always been this way” Richards, all IMAC for the past two years, is one of the leading complainers, “If things are not worked out here in a couple of days, I could easily be playing for a West Coast team next year.” Any implied comparison between the E's and the Yankees is unintentional. The Old Men, who nipped the E's 24-19, relied on former Heisman trophy winners Yahweh and Johnny Rogers. Said Rogers, “Damn, I don’t believe I've seen Yawie look as good since the Oklahoma game of ‘70.” Word is that outside linebacker and Chevrolet Defensive player of the game, Dave “Fro Man” Shi could be the criminal element in flickerball. It is not known whether Jeff Frank will be able to resume his duties as tennis coach this year because he has not quit jumping up and down since the victory. Congratulations are in order for Jeff who got his first date in years after the game. MacFleet and Stuff continued to put it together after John Ratliff's departure and molested the F-one J-one’s. The FIJI's were undefeated going into the game but finally showed us what they were made of. Bernie and H-man also feel we need to say a few more words about Mac and Stuff, our dark horse favorite to win the tournament. Few more words. The big event of the weekend however was the beginning of Varsity Spades at Davidson. This year’s team, composed of Earnest Reigel and Pete “Everybody knows my last name,” decapitated the young men from Southwestern. Second-string shuffler Rob “Hollywood” Cordell, didn't see any action but said of his teammates’ play, “Even though our opponents were pretty much wasted, I think it was a big win for us.” Davidson now travels to South Carolina A&T for its next match. Three on Three basketball is coming up on the calendar and Bernie feels that it will be a wide open battle for the crown, “One has to look at the facts before he can make a prediction and the facts this year is that it is going to be hard to make a prediction and no facts really stand out too clear.” Hogman added, “In regular season play I have to favor the squatty bodies, but since this is not regular season play, I can't favor them.” When play starts October 30th, look for one of the teams in the tourney to win and remember where you heard it. This week's Top Ten: 1. Bongs 2. MacFleet and Stuff 3. KA #1 4. SAE 5. Old Men 6. War Kiwis 7. Fupped Ducks 8. FIJI's 9. Johnny Castleberry and East Harlem Whizz Kids 10. SPE Always remember when you are down, don’t stop. Get off later.

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS