September 16, 1977 The Davidsonian

‘Here's looking at you, kid.’ himself, Humphrey Bogart. Robert Sacchi appears as the great movie man Wednesday, September 21, at
8 pm in the 900 Room. Bogart’s movie “African Queen” will be shown Tuesday night in Love Auditorium by the
Fine Films Committee.

Counselors arrive
By MEREDITH DEAN
Staff Writer

The new year at Davidson promises not only new problems but also new ways of dealing with these problems. These
“answers” come in the form of Davidson’s new psychological counselors Dr. Barbara R. Ballard, director of Psychological Services at Gaston-Lincoln
Area Mental Health, and John Wheeler, Director of Psychological Services at the Center for Human Development in Mecklenburg County. Both
counselors attended the University of South Carolina and, according to Will Terry, are highly respected by their professional peers. Husband
and wife, Ballard and Wheeler are currently living and practicing in Charlotte. Each plans to be available on alternate days
in the Davidson Counseling Center, from Tuesday through Friday. Services may also be provided one evening a week.

Wheeler and Terry are both quick to emphasize that the psychologists offer an important service to Davidson and they encourage
students to take full advantage of the service. As Wheeler expressed, “I’m not here to take the place of a
friend or advisor but I am here to talk to anyone who needs to straighten out their thoughts” or as
Terry put it, “To help us over the rough spots.” Wheeler and Ballard have already spoken to the faculty advisors
and plan to visit with various student groups in the next few weeks, introducing themselves and explaining their services.

Another addition to the counseling center is psychology professor Webster. As a faculty member, he will serve as an additional
source to which students may turn for counseling. Other new faces in the medical field this year are the five
doctors who will be on sick call on weekdays at the Infirmary. These are Doctors Alex Sanchez, Van Stitt, and
William Williams, all residents in family practice in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg hospital; Dr. Larry Silverburg, presently practicing in Charlotte, and Dr.
Lewis Sigmon, director of the family practice program in the Charlotte-Mecklenburg hospital. Because of their other commitments, the doctors’ hours
will be rather irregular, but a nurse will always be on duty. During the weekends all Davidson students will be
referred to the Mooresville hospital in cases of emergency. Terry expects the medical care to be much more consistent in
the future; however, next year two former Davidson students plan to set up a practice in the Davidson community and
they will cater to student needs. Until then, however, the prevailing attitude seems to be that “the quality of service
will not suffer—only the continuity of coverage,” said Terry.

Freshman trauma will evaporate
By MEREDITH DURDEN
Staff Writer

College freshmen are now submerged in a period of emotional transition, according to Davidson’s two new psychological counselors Mr. John
T. Wheeler and his wife Dr. Barbara Ballard. As soon as freshmen feel comfortable with college, their past personality will
reemerge basically unaltered. But for the moment, apprehension is a very real problem, said the couple. “Not only is Davidson
unknown to the student, but the student is unknown to Davidson,” said Wheeler. “The impact of the situation is just
that—going from the known to the unknown.” Dr. Ballard explained that freshmen are insecure about their ability to do college
work. They feel that college will be...Much more difficult than high school. "In our society, there is what we call
the 'halo effect.' In high school, this effect may manifest itself when a student exhibits one positive characteristic, like intelligence,
and is then seen as having other good qualities, like creativity and poise," she said. The halo effect occurs at
college and in a lot of other situations, but a freshman may feel that it is unique to their past
and that they really aren’t prepared for college, she said.

"Once the halo effect is established, a person has some built-in alibis. For example, an established high school student who
performs poorly does not suffer any long-term detrimental effects. People excuse it as a 'bad day.' When a person comes
to college, they have to build an entirely new reputation. There is no sense of ease here," said Mrs. Ballard.

Mr. Wheeler explained that the chance to change at college is an exciting prospect to freshmen. "You can be anything
you want to be, and that is a bit frightening," he said. Students feel that they don’t belong when they
are thrown into a campus where upperclassmen seem to have their niches and fellow freshmen seem gracefully ready to slide
into their own. A fear of failure is strong until the student tests himself, said the couple.

Dr. Ballard talked about another area which produces anxiety among freshmen. "When we have a fantasy or goal, we sometimes
have a hard time coping with the fact that we actually reach it. College is itself a landmark situation and,
as a college, Davidson has a reputation for being both selective and demanding."

Mr. Wheeler explained how students react when thrown into a stressful situation. "When people move into an unknown situation, they
tend to act under 'security operations.' That means they act according to the strategies or patterns that have been successful
for them before," he said. In that sense, the class clown of high school may find himself the college clown.
And the freshman that uses studying as an escape from other people is acting in a tried and true pattern,
he said.

There are certain big questions which are sticking in each freshman’s mind, said the counselors. "Will I be OK here?"
"Will the people at college be receptive like the people in high school?" "It is a fantasy that freshmen especially
are prone to, the myth that the world is different from here," said Mr. Wheeler. In many respects, college is
like the real world and in many more ways it is like high school, he said.

"Students think that new classmates and professors are somehow different from the people they knew before. But they’re not," Wheeler
added. Usually, when a student realizes that college is a lot like the world they’ve known before, they relax and
settle in. "When people first come to college, they expect a big change to occur, though they know that inside
they are the same. It is an affirmation of who you are when you accept yourself as the same person,"
said Wheeler.

Wheeler said that the sense of not belonging is natural in a new situation and offered some assurance to freshmen.
"Most people who get to Davidson probably should be here," he said.

Electronic Service and Sales
173 N. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
First Union National
DAVIDSON
