December 2, 1977

Christmas tradition revived

A long-standing Davidson tradition is being revived.

In an attempt to narrow the chasm between the students and faculty, the SGA will cram every room in the Union with tree-trimming, popcorn and cranberry stringing, taffy pulling, Christmas caroling, apple bobbing, and more.

Not since the College’s all-male days has there been a campus-wide Christmas party, according to Laura Michael.

As a member of the SGA Student-Faculty Relations Committee, Michael was given the job of organizing the event.

“This will not be a Union party, it won’t be a DCF party, it won’t be an SGA party—it will be a College party,” she said.

Beginning at 7 pm and probably lasting until 11 pm, the activities are planned “to get the faculty and students together in a situation outside the classroom,” Michael explained.

“We really want the faculty to come and to bring their spouses and children. We’re going to try to get their kids to dress up as little elves,” she said.

Although many details won’t be worked out until tomorrow afternoon, the male chorus and the women’s chorus have already agreed to lead the Christmas caroling.

Michael said she expects a Christmas film will be shown on the big screen. There may be a crafts fair.

“Everybody likes to have their own party and that’s fine, but we’ve tried to include as many groups as possible to make this a campus party,” she said.

Egg nog, hot cider, cookies, and other refreshments will be served. A local Santa Claus is scheduled to make an appearance.

We made a mistake

Dr. Silverburg is an osteopathy, not an osteopath.

USTAD ASAD Ali Khan brings ancient music to 900 Room tonight.

Musical disciple appears tonight

The best rudra veena player in all of India will be appearing in the 900 Room tonight at 8:30.

Asad Ali Khan, one of the few living Indians to earn the title Ustad or Master Musician, will stop by Davidson as part of his first American tour.

He is the only person alive to practice the medieval style on India’s most ancient classical musical instrument still in use.

Khan is a disciple of a dying art.

Up until the 1920s the rudra veena, a long string instrument most easily distinguished by the ornate resonating globes attached at each end, was quite popular. Today it has been displaced by the sitars and other instruments.

Khan’s ancestors have been masters of the rudra veena since the eighteenth century, a time when they played before maharajas and not American college students.

The concert will be free according to Director of South Asian Studies Tonia Devon.

Southern quilt-makers shown

By Esther Bruce
Staff Writer

Art is where you find it.

For an America which has lost touch with its country origins, the old homemade quilts which at one time graced every corn shuck mattress this side of the Rio Grande have become an exotic art form.

Six quilts will be on display in the Union Lobby until Christmas. They range from the old fashioned to the modern abstract.

“I wanted to bring something to the Union that more people can relate to,” said Ginny Newell who organized the exhibition.

“I don’t think that any art form is becoming as exciting as any other art form,” she added.

Newell said she was struck with the idea when looking at a similar show at Charlotte’s Mint Museum. She was able to get the names of some quilt-makers from the museum staff.

She was led to even more artists when she spoke with the suggested quilt-makers. The resulting display represents artists from across the Southeast.

Newell said that she hopes the quilts will complement the crafts fair to be held in the Union on Saturday, December 10. She suggested that the people who attend the fair may be ready customers for the quilts.

Prices range from $175 to $1000.

QUILTS ON display are intricately designed. [David Litaker]

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE

Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly -
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 892-0208

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE

First Union National
DAVIDSON