April 8, 1977

The Davidsonian

Rain hampers tournament

Golfers chip to 12th place

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team participated in the Elon Invitational in Burlington, N.C. at the Alamance Country Club Monday and Tuesday, finishing in a tie for 12th place out of a field of 20 teams. The Pembroke Saints, led by medalist Junior Nance, won the tournament with a two-day total of 762. The tournament was plagued by poor weather. Rain and wind forced the cancellation of Sunday’s practice round and continued to hamper scores through Monday and Tuesday.

Sollie Foy led the Davidson effort with scores of 79-78 for the two days of play. Foy was followed by Jim Heard with 82-80, Joe Davis with 81-83, Mark Hess with 86-77, Chris Loeb with 85-81, and Mike Kennedy with 84-86. All of the six players are sophomores except Mark Hess who is a freshman.

Sailors move ahead thanks to wind, athletic department

By GEORGE L. STROBEL
Staff Writer

The sailing team is making great headway thanks to the Davidson athletic department which bought eight new 4.20 class boats.

The sailing team is one of the few varsity teams that is coed.

This year’s membership is around 20 with hard-core captains David Love, Alice White, and Ned Grear leading numerous freshmen. The team is coached by Dr. Walker of the French department who is an expert sailor.

Sailing is divided into two divisions in the southeast. Three teams out of each division will compete in May at Lake Norman to determine which school will represent the southeast at the finals.

Davidson’s team finished third in the Northern Division of the southeast, and will compete for the southeastern regional title.

This year’s team has been led by Jeff Harris, a freshman who has had plenty of prior experience.

Regattas are divided into two divisions with a member of each school in each division, who competes in a round-robin against everyone else, alternating boats each race. This way no one has the advantage of a better boat.

The Davidson squad has a regatta April 24 when they will face the Davidson Yacht Club. There will be an all-girl regatta run by Alice White that same weekend.

(Irv Wilson)

ETCETERA

121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

SPRING SALE

10% off on all Jeans and Shirts for Guys and Gals

Store hours:
10:00 to 5:00
Closed Wednesdays

With the top five out of six scores counting, Davidson finished the first day of play in 17th place at 411.

However, Davidson moved up five spots to 12th by shooting 399 Tuesday.

Earlier, Davidson defeated Hampden-Sydney, who had four returning lettermen from their previous year’s team (which finished third in NCAA Division III play) by the score of 319-333 at the Charlotte Country Club. Again, Foy led with a 77, Heard and Polhill both carded 80’s, and Hess shot an 82.

The golf team has 12 players qualifying for each meet with only those golfers who averaged below 80 exempt.

Heard commented on Davidson’s coach, Tim Tallent, the PGA pro from Salisbury, N.C., “His being a PGA pro has helped us. If we want help we can go to him. He has spent a lot of time recruiting.”

Davidson played today in a three-way match at the Maggie Valley golf course. They will be gearing up for the Southern Conference Tournament at the end of the month.

SERVING IT UP, Mary Gilliam gives the ball a hard slam. (Irv Wilson)

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
EGGPLANT PARMIGIANA
STEAKS • SEAFOOD DISHES
CHOICE WINES & BEERS