September 23, 1977 The Davidsonian

JYA students offer experiences

[Continued from page 3]

Most of her classes took the form of lectures rather than discussions or seminars. Anderson also noted that French students
are often assigned group projects; four or five students will work together to prepare a report or presentation. The JYA
program offers a great opportunity for travel. Anderson visited Switzerland, England, and several other countries. During one of her vacations
from the university, she went to the Pyrenees, where she learned how to ski. During the last two months of
her stay in France, Anderson shared an apartment on the Mediterranean with a friend. “Spending a year abroad helped me
to learn how independent I could be.” Anderson felt that her year abroad was a valuable experience. “I learned more
last year than I would have if I had stayed here,” she said.

“Spending a year abroad helped me to learn how independent I could be,” said Mark Thompson, another participant of the
JYA program in Montpellier. Thompson felt that getting away for a year gave him a new perspective on himself, his
lifestyle, and Davidson. At first, Thompson had to deal with feelings of isolation. He found that in general the French
students did not tend to be very outgoing. “You are the one who has to make the effort to be
friends,” said Thompson. Once he did make the effort to get to know the other students, he discovered that they
were very friendly. Over the course of the year, he developed close relationships with several French students.

The lifestyle of the French students is different from that of Davidson students. “The French students take it easy, are
more relaxed about studying,” said Thompson. He spent much of his free time with his friends going to cafes, seeing
movies, and teaching them to play frisbee in the park. Thompson found coming back to Davidson a “second cultural shock.”
Davidson has a more structured atmosphere and there is more emphasis on academics here than at Montpellier. Thompson, an English
major, is planning to return to France someday. “Without a doubt, I would recommend JYA to other students,” he said.

A member of the French department at Davidson is sent to Montpellier to be a Resident Advisor (RA) for the
JYA students. For the past two years, Dr. Lauren Yoder has held this position. His major duties include helping students
adjust to a new environment and taking care of problems that arise. The RA acts as a counselor, helps American
students find housing, helps them register for courses, plans social events for the entire group, and teaches a few courses
at the university. Anderson and Thompson both said that Yoder’s support and concern had helped them considerably.

Davidson College also offers the opportunity to study at the Phillipps Universitat in Marburg, Germany. Sandy Christiansen, the resident advisor
in Marburg, is in charge of getting students situated, planning group trips, and sponsoring one or two seminars. The academic
year, stretching from October to July, consists of two semesters with a two-month break in-between, in which students are free
to travel or do research. Don Richter, one of the twelve students who participated in the program last year, went
JYA because he was interested in learning German as well as in going on a “roots quest.” The first six
weeks in Germany are spent in an intensive language program, in which the students become fairly fluent in German. “The
object was to learn as fast as possible to think in German,” said Richter.

Richter said that it was harder to make initial contact there than in the States mainly because of the language
barrier. However, he found that after a few weeks, Davidson students were able to integrate themselves into the system. Richter,
a religion major, found that much more responsibility was placed on the student at a German university. “The survey type
courses at Davidson bothered me a little when I came back. Professors tend to make the comparisons for you.”

“The biggest value of a year abroad is proving to yourself that you can live in a foreign country and
get along.”

“At a German university, on the other hand, they gave you one line of thought and you, as a student,
are responsible for doing the outside reading around it. You make the analysis and comparisons yourself. Lectures are mainly for
personal enrichment.”

The possibilities for travel while studying at Marburg are tremendous. The two-month semester break dur-Traveling in February and March is
ideal since there are relatively few tourists in Europe. Richter spent one month in Spain and then worked for several
weeks on a Swiss dairy farm during that time. The Davidson students also took a number of group trips, including
a weekend in Nuremberg, a trip to the Oktoberfest in Munich, and a week-long trip to Berlin. “One of the
best group experiences we had took place in the spring when we went to East Germany. At that point, we
had enough information on the political situation that we could have intelligent discussions with the people there.”

Upon returning to Davidson, Richter found that his perspective of the school had changed somewhat. “There seems to be a
higher degree of conformity and more emphasis on fraternities here. People also seem much younger since the typical German university
student is in his early to mid-twenties.” In retrospect, Richter said that JYA had to be one of the most
“maturing experiences” for this age group. He said it was a good time for introspection as well as a time
to evaluate one’s goals and values. “The biggest value of a year abroad is proving to yourself that you can
live in a foreign country and get along,” said Anne Abernethy, another participant in the JYA program in Marburg last
year.

Abernethy, a psychology major, said that she had not planned to go on a JYA program. “It just happened. I
had always wanted to learn a foreign language and speak it well, so JYA seemed to be a good opportunity.”
It turned out to be the best thing she felt she had done since being at Davidson. Abernethy found the
Germans less open and outgoing than the Americans, but once she had gotten to know them, they were extremely warm
and friendly. “It takes a couple of months to get up a vocabulary so that you can talk to the
people about their ideas rather than just the weather.”

“One of the nicest parts about the trip is seeing yourself improve. It gave me more of a sense of
accomplishment than anything I’d ever done before.” Coming back to Davidson, Abernethy said everything seemed too easy. “While I was
in Germany, trying to learn the language, little things that you do automatically here became work, such as going to
talk to a professor or going shopping.” She said it was also strange not knowing most of the student body
since many of the people she had known had graduated. Abernethy said that she had a different perspective after having
seen her country from “across the water.” “You appreciate the freedoms and conveniences you have here much more as well
as your own family.”

Page Miller said after having been to Germany before and after hearing about the experiences her friends had on their
JYA programs, that she wanted to go to Marburg. She said that JYA was one of the best opportunities for
going to Europe. Not only do you come in contact with a lot of people your own age, but there
is not as much responsibility as when traveling on your own. She found that students in Germany were much more
politically informed not only on affairs in their country but also on those in the U.S. “Davidson students tend to
live in an ivory tower without knowing what’s going on in the world around them. Being in Germany made me
more politically aware.”

Being on her own, learning the language, and being separated from both friends and family added to Miller’s ability to
be self-sufficient and cope with loneliness. “I handle a lot of things better at Davidson since I've gone abroad,” said
Miller. “It’s the best decision I made since being at Davidson.”

Students are also given the option of studying at three universities in England—the Universities of East Anglia, Reading, and Buckingham.
This program has been left relatively unattended in the past several years. The program is, therefore, being reevaluated this year.
Boon, Coordinator of International Studies, is looking into making the program more economical for Davidson students. “My goal is to
make it as easy as possible for each student to have a meaningful international experience,” said Boon. Boon plans to
set up meetings in the next several weeks for all students interested in going abroad. He encourages anyone considering the
JYA option to come talk to him.
