The Davidsonian January 28, 1977

Slack and uninspiring play force Ta Tas to trivia game

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S Staff Writers

Because of the slack and uninspiring play in IMAC basketball this week, we are abandoning all tradition by presenting a
quiz for all you trivia buffs.

Questions

1. What team does Bruce Holliday play for? Also, what team does he play with?

2. In their recent game against the Mistakes, IBT was coached to victory by what famous personality?

3. What does a cabbage plant amoeba cow look like playing basketball?

4. What is John McArthur’s real name?

5. What fabulous female melted after slipping and falling on the ice Monday afternoon?

6. “‘When Irish Eyes Are Smiling’’ is the favorite song of what player on Buck’s Truck Stop?

7. What is Mother’s Finest?

8. What does a basketball?

9. What star for Little Women holds the school record for most baskets from half court in one game?

10. What does the Bible say about IMAC sports?

11. What is Kathryn Bridges’ contribution to KB’s family?

12. What is the price of apple pie and country ham at Baby Rick’s Bar & Grill?

13. Who was the renowned member of the ailing Bama Boys that attempted to purchase a case of Crimson Tide
Tonic at Park’s Drugs?

14. Which controversial team was reported to have recently needed electric enemas to continue through the second half of their
game?

Answers

1. suoloD Bury
2. ay} pues xBu[D ureydeg ‘pT
3. ureypeg
4. ,uBysuruig,, Ao190g “ET
5. pies dutpesy
6. ‘ad Weqoy euOo ZI
7. “sino SB poosd se si ssansd Inox ‘TT
8. ‘AyTenjow ‘yonur JON ‘OT
9. jsdn Avy ayBur A[UO ppnod ays JI ‘MON
10. “juny ,,sdoopy,, A1Vpy “6
11. ‘spur AzIIp aavy nod AW ‘asues Aue oxeur yOu seOp uOTysenb sry y, °g
12. WSTEq s,peq *L
13. uosiepuy , ABUT O,, Pa 9
14. {duryoqem sem Apoqou yury} Alpeer ays piq ‘eulooig ,,Woog woog,, BUIN ‘GC
15. sokg sug “F
16. “yoo IBaA uaAas 943 YIM JuB AUB YUNIp y “¢
17. seysnoy ,,9YONoL,, OH *Z
18. "S}9BM PlE-9[9WT pig yy shed eH ,,'d,, IMITYy IBAA 103 sAvid aH *T

Davidson, N. C.

JEANS FOR MEN AND LADIES

SALE ON MEN’S KNIT SHIRTS SALE ON LADIES’ PANTS NEW SHIPMENT OF VICEROY JEANS

Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10:00-5:30 Closed Wednesdays

Wrestlers grapple

By DEAN EKLUND Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestlers participated in The Citadel Tournament at Charleston with six other teams Saturday.

Pembroke State with five winners in their respective weight classes won the championship with Duke University placing second and The
Citadel third.

Davidson came up on the short end, finishing seventh.

Davidson claimed two bronze trophies. Pat Dulaney, defending champion in the 142-weight classification, finished third in his weight classification. Rob
King claimed third in the heavyweight division.

Monday night, Davidson suffered a 32-22 setback to Livingston College at Salisbury. Nevertheless, Dulaney raised his record to seven wins
against two losses with a win. Mark Scandling and Scott Phillips also posted wins for Davidson.

The next home match for the wrestling team is against Hampden-Sydney February 4 during Midwinters.

Faculty voices student priorities

[Continued from page 9] Davidson, where they lived, what they’ve done, the kind of things they’re motivated by.

“You can’t rate these things, but you need the college to take a risk,” he said.

“I look for a combination of things,’’ said Palmer. ‘‘Strong recommendations are important. Prominent strength in personal qualities beyond the
classroom — interests, involvements that reflect a breadth of things they’re involved in.

“Scores inevitably came in.

“I think diversity is important. In a sense the school itself will filter all that diversity out, because someone who
will want to be really diverse won’t apply to Davidson,” he said.

“What I think about is the diversity of the student body when I vote,’’ said Cornwell. ‘‘When I look at
a folder my intuition is at work.

“I’m also looking for the way a person expresses himself, the scores he has and the high school record.”

Enter as many times as you like!

WIN A TRIP TO SCHLITZ BREWERY

Spend the day with Ron and Vic in Winston-Salem touring Schlitz Brewery!

Drawing will be held Monday, February 7th.

NAME
ADDRESS
PHONE

We will be leaving at about 11:00am Friday the 11th for the V.I.P. tour of Schlitz, and then after the
tour, dinner in one of Winston-Salem’s nicest restaurants. All you have to do is fill out an entry form. Be
one of the 6 lucky people to go!!

ENTRY FORM
