March 11, 1977 The Davidsonian

Batters discover aggression on tour

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

The 1977 Wildcat Baseball Team began its season with a nine-game tour through Georgia over spring break, which Coach Palmer
Muench predicted would be “a good learning experience” for the young 'Cats.

The 'Cats started the tour by losing twice to Georgia and once to West Georgia.

Coach Muench said that the team’s weakness was due to “lack of aggressive baseball.” Despite the three losses, Muench describes
this year’s team as “the most talented I’ve ever coached.” The talent finally showed in the fourth game as the
’Cats beat Mercer of Atlanta by an impressive 14-6.

The team was led offensively by second-baseman Rick Blinkhorn’s four singles. Some power hitting came from catcher Tim Goodell, who
hit two home runs, while center-fielder Stan Brown and third-baseman Pete Legler each had home runs. Jim Nichols and Tim
McDowell each hit a triple. Altogether, the team had fourteen hits.

After the impressive Mercer win, the Wildcats lost three more games, two to Mercer of Macon and one to Armstrong.

However, the team bounced back to end the trip by winning a double-header with Augusta College (3-1 and 4-3). In
the Augusta games, the 'Cats play in the field was virtually errorless.

The Augusta games also showed the strength of the pitching staff.

Senior Tim Barr, the “ace” of the staff, won the Mercer game and overpowered Augusta by throwing a two-hitter in
the first game. The other pitchers on the starting rotation included Alan Alig, Tim Purcell, Ron Cannon, and Ken Norwood.
The relievers were Mike Lins, John Madden, and Bruce Bolinger.

The second Augusta win went to ‘southpaw’ reliever Mike Lins.

Both Augusta wins also showed the offensive potential of the young 'Cat team. Left-fielder Sid Osborne had three hits, while
Bob Lapple (who shares catching duties with Goodell) and Bruce Bolinger both hit home runs.

The ex-Davidson “great” George Weicker acted as Assistant Coach to Muench on the trip and had this to say, “Hopefully
now we know what it takes to win.”

Besides tabulating a record of 3-6, the Cats learned on the trip that their key to future success is aggressive
play in all areas of baseball.

Runners foresee strong win

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team will be given a chance to prove that it has quality, as well as quantity (over
40 members) in this Saturday’s meet against William and Mary and the following week in a meet against Lynchburg College
and a dual meet against High Point College and Wake Forest.

“There is strong interest in track this year, but the quality of the team is unknown. It will take several
meets in order for me to see what kind of team I have. The upcoming meets against two strong teams,
William and Mary and Lynchburg, will give an indication of things to come,” commented Coach Sterling Martin.

Perhaps Davidson’s strongest point this year is the large number of upperclassmen who are returning.

Coach Martin is relying heavily on sophomore Doug Horn in the steeplechase and the mile. Last year, Horn broke the
school’s long-standing record in the mile with a time of 4:16.

Carl McPhail, a sophomore from Charlotte, will be relied upon heavily in the high hurdles, the triple jump, the high
jump, and possibly the 440 relay. McPhail was an outstanding performer last year.

In the pole vault, senior John Lewis hopes to improve on last year’s mark of 13 feet and sophomore Irv
Wilson will provide depth, especially in dual meets.

Martin feels Jarry Taylor is one of the better hammer-throwers in the area and his brother, David Taylor, shows real
promise. Davidson could have a strong combination in the two brothers.

In the javelin throw, Ray Berberick and Svend Pederson should provide consistency. Senior Jim Douglas was Davidson’s top quarter-miler last
year and Martin expects him to improve this year.

In the 880, Martin does not have a good idea of how his runners will perform in competition, but he
feels Steve Justice, Greg Kunkleman, and Jim Lytle could provide some surprises.

COACH PALMER MUENCH displays the form and concentration necessary for a successful baseball season.

THE VILLAGE STORE
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C.
Is Pleased To Announce The Opening Of Its

Local Artists Gallery
Through March 11

Featuring The Works Of
Don Chapman

Don Chapman, 28, who has his studio on Hwy. 150 west of Mooresville, teaches art at the Mitchell, Gaston, and
Central Piedmont community colleges. A graduate of Memphis Academy of Art, his show credits include: Brooks Memorial Gallery, Memphis; Arkansas
Art Center, Little Rock; Memphis Academy of Arts and Southeastern Center for Contemporary Art, Winston-Salem.

“A WORLD OF GIFTS”

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners

Custom Framing, Prints, Posters, Graphics, Limited Editions
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036 (704) 892-1380
