Davidson Cinema Previewed: We Bringeth Richard

By BILL HOLLIDAY, Staff Writer.

Lately, both snow and Shakespeare have been hitting campus with unusual regularity. Sir Laurence Olivier’s production of Richard III will
be presented next Thursday, January 27, as a part of the Fine Film Series. Sir Laurence firmly believed, though most
critics thought differently, that Shakespeare could be brought to the screen as entertainment. With Richard III, he proved his claim.
He could hardly fail with such an impressive array of actors as himself in the title role, Sir Ralph Richardson
as Buckingham, Sir Cedric Hardwicke as Edward IV, Sir John Gielgud as Clarence, and Claire Bloom as Lady Anne. Add
to this some excellent camera work by Otto Heller, and tight direction by Olivier himself, and the result is just
short of perfection.

I say just short of perfection because the film is not entirely without flaws. The plot is difficult to follow
at times if one has not had a summary, as Olivier assumes that everyone has read the play. Also, it
is often hard to keep the characters straight in the early stages because the opening scenes move rather quickly—but again,
knowledge of the story helps here. Although Olivier adheres to the general plot of the play, he does take a
few liberties with the original: speeches, while not rewritten (heaven forbid), are moved around or cut, and the final battle
scene is enlarged considerably. Perhaps the major deviation is that Olivier has Richard killed by a different character than Shakespeare
originally intended. None of this alteration really detracts from the art of the film as a film, and in each
case, one feels that the change is justified. Olivier has succeeded in capturing on film Shakespeare’s picture of this arrogant,
treacherous, hypnotic, and monstrous man; one leaves the theatre feeling his power, confident that here indeed is the closest that
film has yet come to matching Shakespeare’s.

Mahogany Echoes Melody

Today, the title, Mahogany, may immediately bring to mind two other words: “Theme from....” This weekend, D.C. Pop Films is
planning to show the movie that goes along with the tune. Diana Ross, who sang the theme, also stars in
the film, playing a Chicago secretary who becomes an internationally famous model. (Mahogany is a name given to her along
the way). Co-starring is Billy Dee Williams as a reformer and politician with whom Ross becomes involved. Also in the
cast are Tony Perkins, Nina Foch, and Jean-Pierre Aumont. The man behind the film was Berry Gordy, chairman of the
board of Motown Records, Ross’ label. He had produced her first film, Lady Sings the Blues, a highly successful venture.

POP FILMS
Paramount Presents
A Berry Gordy Film
Score by Michael Masser
Based on a Story by John Byrum and Berry Gordy
Diana Ross is one of America’s natural resources. —Jack Kroll, Newsweek

Christiano wanted to own Mahogany.
Billy Dee Williams, Jean-Pierre Aumont, Nina Foch, Beah Richards, Marisa Mell, Anthony Perkins.
Berry Gordy presents: Brian knew what Mahogany was—and still loves her. Sean created Mahogany—and then tried to destroy her.
As Sean
Panavision in Color
A Paramount Picture
FILMS INCORPORATED
8 & 10:30 P.M.
January 21, 1977

John McEuen of The Nitty-Gritty Dirt Band will perform in the 900 Room Saturday, January 22.biography of Billie Holiday which
won Ross an Academy Award nomination.

_Record review_

With Mahogany, Gordy became a director, taking over after he had fired the original one, Englishman Tony Richardson. He directs
Ross in what is basically a dramatic, non-singing role (she is also credited with costume designing).

Opera rocks Peron

By DAVE SCHMIDT
Staff Writer

Andrew Lloyd Webber
Evita
MCA Records

Evita is a rock opera based on the life of Eva Peron, if you can believe that. The music is
written by Andrew Lloyd Webber, with lyrics by Tim Rice. The story traces Eva's rise from a singer in a
small bar to her subsequent marriage to Juan Peron, who later became dictator of Argentina. While Eva was despised during
life, she immediately became a saint upon her death.

The star of the story, besides Eva herself, is Che, a young Argentinian student who later goes on to meet
Eva after her husband has achieved power. Che has invented a new type of insecticide, and asks Eva to intercede
for him with her husband in hopes of receiving a government contract.

Side One opens with a dialogue sequence from a typical South American movie from 1952. The soundtrack is stopped to
announce the death of Eva from cancer. The first song on the side is sung by Che, and is a
commentary on the carnival atmosphere of Buenos Aires after her death. The lyrics to the song contain some good lines,
such as “When they’re ringing your curtain down, demand to be buried like Eva Peron” and “She had her moments—she
had some style—the best show in town was the crowd.” The music, however, reminded me of the crowd scene at
the end of “The Day of the Locust.”

The rest of Side One deals with Eva's career as a small-time singer in a bar in the town of
Junin. She persuades the band leader to take her to Buenos Aires, and there she meets and services film directors
and producers who further her career. The lyrics describing these scenes range from good to great, but the music by
Webber is a different story. The melodies seem to be a combination of “Jesus Christ Superstar” and plagiarism of music
from Frank Zappa and Flo and Eddie.

Side Two definitely shows the influence of “Jesus Christ Superstar.” The side traces her further development as a movie actress.
Eva is observed by Che, but is yet to meet him. The seventh song of the album, “Charity Concert/I’d Be
Surprisingly Good,” portrays the first time Eva met Juan Peron, which was at a charity concert. After meeting Peron, she
throws his sixteen-year-old mistress out of his flat and moves in with him. The remainder of the side traces Eva’s
falling out with the military, and Peron’s rise in the military group which had seized control of the government of
Argentina.

Side Three opens with “On the Balcony of the Casa Rosada/Don’t Cry for Me Argentina.” The scene it depicts is
the inauguration of Peron on the palace balcony, and Eva’s triumphant appearance to the crowds. Inside the palace, the aristocrats
are commenting on the fact that someone who was not born into royalty could claim such adulation. Eva ends part
one of the story by telling the aristocrats, “But your despicable class is dead! Look who they are calling for
now!”

Part two of the story, which begins [See EVA, page 9]
