The Davidsonian, October 28, 1977

Rifle team aims for smashing victory
By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

For the Davidson College Rifle Team, optimism is the byword as a new season approaches. Ten shooters return from a
squad that was 18-8 last year with five of the losses to Appalachian State University, a team ranked in the
top ten in the country. It was Davidson’s best performance in several years, but according to junior Tom Niblock, this
year’s edition should be much better. “We lost our best shooter, but still we’re better,” he declared. “We've been improving
steadily over the last three years,” Niblock pointed out, noting that the depth of the squad will be a decisive
factor.

There is only one senior on the 1977-78 unit, but there are four juniors and five sophomores as well. In
the past, the squad usually chose “two or three dedicated shooters” from the freshman class, but with the addition of
six talented freshmen this year, the team appears to have as much depth as any team in recent years.

The rifle team competes in the Southern Conference as well as the Western Carolina Conference, which is purely a rifle
conference composed of nine schools. A major difference between the two forms of competition is that the SC matches are
usually one school against another, while the WCC contests pit four or more teams against one another.

The Southern Conference schedule gets underway this Saturday as the Wildcats travel to Greensboro, N.C., to take on North Carolina
A&T. Based on the performances of last year, some of the higher scores are expected from Niblock, senior Tom Miller,
junior Katherine Whitney, and John Parham, a sophomore. On the following weekend, the team kicks off its WCC season as
it hosts a match with ASU, Wofford, and Presbyterian College expected to participate.

This year's schedule is tougher than last year’s and Niblock reasoned that “scores should be generally higher, but we will
be hard-pressed to match last year’s record. But,” he added, “it’s going to be an interesting year.”

Haynes brightens Cats’ cage hopes
By PAUL BANTA
Sports Columnist

Davidson basketball has gone a while without a real pleasant surprise. Over the last several seasons far more things have
gone wrong than right. No, there is not going to be any glorious prediction for the upcoming season. I’m not
very good at telling the future. But there is a bright spot developing.that few would have expected. For those who
have been watching the Wildcats workout the past two weeks, this will be no new news. After the recruiting season
ended last spring, many a Davidson basketball fan could recite the life history of three of the Wildcats’ four signees.
They were easy to remember with their high scoring averages and all-state honors. But the fourth didn’t make much of
an impression. This fourth freshman is Todd Haynes and he introduced himself to many last Friday by scoring 38 points
in the Wildcats’ first scrimmage. He was not highly recruited for several reasons, none of which reflected on his ability.
His high school didn’t play in a great league. His hometown of Bourbonnais, Ill., is small, and his coach preferred
a slow-paced offense which did not help a player build up the impressive statistics that draw coaches’ attention. This didn’t
stop Dave Pritchett and company from convincing the 6-7, 207 forward to play for the Wildcats.

“The first time Coach (John) Kochan saw me was at practice,” Haynes remembered. “He offered me a scholarship that first
time.” It wasn’t the only offer he was to receive—several state schools nearby tried to convince him that there were
better places for him than a small school in North Carolina. “They all played up playing in front of your
family really hard,” Haynes said. “Some of the coaches from the other schools pointed out the record at Davidson, too.
But there is such a better schedule here. Davidson had the most to offer.

“Coach Pritchett was a lot more straightforward,” he continued. “The others were more business-like and not as personal. I couldn't
have gone to a school where I didn’t like the coach.” Even though Haynes was the least heralded of the
new Wildcats, he hasn’t seen himself as being less able. “I never got much publicity,” Haynes said. “I went to
basketball camp at Illinois State before my senior year. I shared MVP honors with a guy that was all-state. I
had no problems playing with the ‘good’ players. Then I knew the publicity was all politics. They just were on
good teams.

“I’m looking forward to playing against big-name players,” he went on. “There’s no pressure—if he beats you, people just say
he’s good, but if you beat him, it stands out. Also, I can improve by playing better players.” Like the
rest of the team, Haynes was happy to have Coach Pritchett back at the helm. “Coach’s absence was the main
topic of concern this fall,” he admitted. “Ever since he left, we were told he’d be back next week. It
wasn’t his fault he was gone. He had told me on the phone he would be back here for practice.
I believed him. When he finally got here, everyone was more at ease. Everyone from last year really missed him.”

While he has surprised some, Haynes is doing as well as Pritchett thought he would. “We were high on him
all the way,” the Wildcat head coach said. “We knew what we had. We turned down a highly touted recruit
from Upstate New York for him.”

For the football Wildcats, there couldn’t be a worse place to have to play VMI than at Lexington. The Keydets
are a different team in their own stadium. They are 3-0 there, having defeated William and Mary, Richmond, and The
Citadel before the home folks. On the road is just the opposite, 0-3, with the Keydets dropping games to Army,
East Carolina, and Lehigh.
