6 The Davidsonian April 1, 1977

History: a relevant study for today?
By DAVID E. SHI
Faculty Guest Columnist

The discipline of history is in trouble. In a recent presidential address to the Organization of American Historians, Professor Frank Freidel of Harvard asserted that “the historical profession is in a state of crisis.” And there is ample evidence to justify such a jeremiad-like pronouncement. A new survey of college-bound high-school students in 100 representative schools reveals that of the 21 subjects in their curriculum they regard history as the “most irrelevant.” Some states require practically no prior training in history for high-school history teachers. At the college level, the number of students majoring in history or taking history courses has declined as emphasis has shifted to “more relevant” disciplines (history at Davidson represents an exception to the trend). As a result of this shift away from history, young Americans are entering adulthood without even a rudimentary knowledge of their country’s past. A New York Times poll last year of 2,000 college freshmen at 200 institutions revealed that “this group of students knows remarkably little American history. Their knowledge of the colonial period is primitive. Two-thirds do not have the foggiest notion of Jacksonian democracy. Less than half even know that Woodrow Wilson was President during World War I.” Several probably did not know who is buried in Grant’s tomb!

Americans have not always had such an appalling lack of historical consciousness. The Founding Fathers, deprived of the mesmerizing banality of television, had a vigorous sense of history. Madison and Hamilton devoted much of the Federalist papers to an analysis of historical precedents for a constitutional confederation. They made “no apology for having dwelt so long on the contemplation of these federal precedents. Experience is the oracle of truth; and where its responses are unequivocal, they ought to be conclusive and sacred.” Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson were historians in addition to being Presidents. But in recent years concern for history has waned among political leaders and the general public. George McGovern is a history Ph.D.—and look what happened to him. A reading of President Carter’s autobiography reveals few historical references, a surprising omission considering his Southern heritage. As Gavin Stevens emphasized in Faulkner’s Requiem for a Nun, “the past is never dead. It’s not even past.” One wonders as Carter embarks upon his crusading, messianic foreign policy whether he is aware of the pitfalls that befell Woodrow Wilson when he adopted a similar stance sixty years ago.

Why has history lost its meaning and attraction for so many Americans, especially young people? One obvious factor is the changing nature of our society. In today’s modern technocratic age, with its overweening emphasis upon technical expertise and professional careers, students naturally question the utility of history. Post-graduate vocational concerns have increasingly dulled student sensitivities to the drama and lessons of the past. Wordsworth recognized such a myopic orientation when he wrote:

A primrose by the river’s brim,
A yellow primrose was to him,
And it was nothing more.

Part of the problem is that students come to college with certain preconceived ideas about designing a program of study suitable to their career choice. For example, some believe that to become a doctor one must major in the sciences or to become a successful businessman, one should major in economics. Yet at Davidson this year a senior history major has been accepted at medical school. In addition, one of the professors in the economics department was an undergraduate history major. The point is that history can be meaningful, it can open up exciting vistas, and it can provide a student with the intellectual skills to succeed.

Letters to the Editor

Stuarts favor Christians
To the Editor:

In the past, Christians and non-Christians alike could compete for academic scholarships at Davidson. Devout Christians may have had an edge over agnostics, atheists and members of other religions, but at least this was not too blatant. Now the Stuart Scholarships, Davidson's largest, and implicitly highest, academic scholarships are reserved for Christians only. Last week The Davidsonian quoted Seddon Goode, chairman of the Stuart Scholarship Fund's Board of Directors as saying, “Christian character is the cornerstone of the Stuart Scholarship program...outstanding students of the Jewish faith and other students could compete for conventional scholarships.”

The college hopes that this scholarship will encourage outstanding students to come to Davidson—but only Christian outstanding students. When a non-Christian student considers applying to Davidson, what will he/she think about the fact that the largest scholarships are reserved for Christians? I am afraid that once again Davidson is undercutting the diversity of the student body. What is the role of the non-Christian on the Davidson campus? We already know the answer with respect to faculty hiring, but what about the students? Does the admissions department let in a few non-Christian students each year in the hope that the Christians will convert them? Is the acceptance of this...

ATO explains alarming
To the Editor:

As a Military Consultant...For ATO, I would like to clarify a few points regarding our tank. First, it is a 1945 Sherman M4, not a 1943 as Charles Jones '79 erroneously reported, and is equipped with a 105 millimeter cannon and a Chrysler engine. The tank is privately owned by a Concord citizen and we are only in the negotiating stages. Second, purchasing the tank does not equal escalation. The tank is to be used strictly to maintain a defendable border. (A non-aggression pact has been signed with ETC to prove our good intentions.) Things are getting a little crowded at ATO, but we will be content with a fair amount of lebensraum. The American-made Sherman is a completely justifiable expense, and the money we pay for it forms the lifeblood of the corporate profit structure that makes this country great. I repeat—mobilization is not aggregation, as any poli-sci student knows.

Third, there is no truth to the rumor that we are employing Cuban mercenaries to fight for us. They will leave just as soon as they teach us to use the new AK-47 assault rifles. Fourth and last, there is nothing that a thirty-ton tank could do to Patterson Court’s grass that would not be an improvement. In conclusion, I see no cause for alarm—after all, if we buy the tank, we won't have enough money to buy the Stuka.

Sid Barrett '79
Davidson College

In any profession, students, as well as society as a whole, need to recognize this fact. Yet while some students may be faulted for myopia, we, as teachers of history, must bear most of the blame for the debilitating condition of our discipline. Relevance refers not to what is taught but how it is taught. History can be dull, very dull, if teachers never challenge the interest nor excite the imagination of students. The dry recitation of facts, dates, and events is not enough. Students today demand more and deserve more. Lytton Strachey once observed that history “is not the mere accumulation of facts but the relation of them.” The past is a cornucopia of accidents, blunders, surprises, absurdities, and achievements. If we are to understand it and if it is to excite us, then we must impose some order on it, tie together seemingly disparate ideas and events, and make it relevant to the present. Chateaubriand once compared the study of history to painting a picture. He recognized that it is necessary to design the whole in addition to filling in the detail. If teachers do not provide a conceptual design, then the boring anarchy of isolated facts will prevail, and many students will continue to view history like the tenth-grade girl who described it as a “course which it seems I have always studied and which unfortunately doesn’t promise to go away too soon.”

Besides enabling one to answer questions asked on Hollywood Squares, the values of studying history are no different than they have always been. Ultimately, the role of the history teacher is Emersonian: “to acquaint man with himself.” In this sense, all young people can afford to be exposed to the highest principles of the practicing historian: a reverence for truth, an appreciation for literary craftsmanship, a knowledge of how contemporary ideas and institutions have evolved, and an honest understanding of the best, worst, and average achievements and failures of the human existence. The proper study of history provides students with a sense of perspective, an appreciation for both the changes and timelessness of the course of human endeavor. Historical perspective moderates our instinctive and pervasive parochialism; it teaches us modesty and humility, patience and tolerance. Above all, it can instill in man a sense of hope. Carl Becker perhaps expressed it best when he concluded that the value of history is “not scientific but moral: by liberalizing the mind, deepening the sympathies, by fortifying the will, it enables us to control, not society but ourselves... it prepares us to live more humanely in the present... and to meet the future.”

If we as teachers of history, both in high schools and colleges, can recognize that our role extends beyond the mere recitation of facts, then the discipline of history may soon be able to retort with Mark Twain that “rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated.” Otherwise, America may continue to turn its back on its national experience. And as George Santayana warned, a “country without a memory is a country of madmen.”