October 7, 1977

Past graduates find “real world”

[Continued from page 10]

English major, I am now using in direct correlation in my own classes.” Grizzard is working at Charlotte Country Day School coaching soccer and teaching seventh and eighth grade English. “Having graduated from Davidson helped me get a job here because people in Charlotte recognize the quality of Davidson,” he commented.

For Bryan Andrews '77, an insurance agent for the Northwestern Insurance Company, this translation and transition has been more difficult. “Davidson is not a good facsimile of the real world. There you form relationships on a personal basis; while in working, relationships are strictly on the business level. At Davidson, when I lay the facts on the line, they took what I said and believed it. I was trusted yet any time a salesman says anything, it’s seen as a sales pitch, they don’t believe you,” Andrews added.

“Davidson is such a secure environment, you know what is going to go on,” Andrews continued. “There is a common base at Davidson and I loved my four years there. But as far as preparing me for the real business world, they didn’t do it, or I didn’t let them by taking advantage of the Experiential Programs during the summer.”

MacArthur also found this to be true to a lesser degree: “I guess I’m discovering the effects of going to a small liberal arts school for I was used to knowing everybody in the community. Here, there’s a lot of anonymity. It’s an adjustment to be made.”

“The biggest advantage of coming from Davidson? I was used to sitting in the library,” says Jack Golden ‘77, who now works 9 to 10 hours a day in his studies at the Vanderbilt Law School. “My strange difficulty is that getting used to not being able to talk to professors on a one-to-one basis.”

“This is a good place to be, yet in many ways I wish I were back as I now find my day divided between my three courses and the nightly news.” Brandon Rankin '77, who is now at Duke Medical School agreed, “With larger classes, it is harder for professors to gauge their lectures towards the individual students. And with class from 8 to 5 it becomes harder to assimilate course material.”

Munce concluded, “The disadvantage of going to a small school is that it’s easy to buy into the rhetoric that the college will tell you everything to do to get by. That's a fallacy. You've got to go out to discover and create the experiences you need to develop and grow. It’s crucial.”

KEN WOOD suggests extern programs, internships, and summer jobs to prepare for career decisions. (Hunter Jennings)

... confusion inhibits most jobless

[Continued from page 10]

community colleges, met August 1 in Raleigh to coordinate follow-up studies on N.C. graduates. Dr. Don Reichard, the coordinator of the workshop, says the plans are now just in the formative stage. He hopes to get money to determine what graduates are doing in a statewide questionnaire rather than leaving it up to the individual institutions. He says he hopes to find how the skills the graduates gain in college help them in their employment.

“We are also pressured by the Federal government to come with the information,” Reichard said. “The Federal student loan program requires institutions to inform prospective students about the employment of past graduates.”

The Department of Labor does not have any more up-to-date statistics on the recently graduated than do the colleges. The most recent data comes from 1976. The Department reports in March 1976, the unemployment rate for all graduates under 25 with four or more years of college was 5.4 percent for men and 7.2 percent for women. The percentage is small compared to the unemployment rate for everybody in the 16-24 age group: 15.5 percent.

Despite the lack of current information, however, educators generally think employment opportunities for college graduates are growing. Padilla cites two things as evidence: an increasing number of businesses are contacting college placement offices (UNC-C reports this is its biggest year ever) and the unemployment rate for the newly graduated is declining.

Dr. Howard R. Booger, executive director of the S.C. Commission on Education in Columbia, says, “This is the best year for graduates in the U.S.” According to the College Placement Council, Inc., in Bethlehem, Pa., student employment is up this year, with engineering graduates leading the rise. The council reports jobs in engineering are up 33 percent; science and math, up 28 percent; business, up 16 percent. Yet, jobs in the humanities and social services are up only 1 percent.

Padilla’s study also found most 1974 graduates found jobs relevant to their major. “Over four out of every five of the Bachelor’s graduates noted that they were employed in their major field of study. In addition,” the story reports, “fewer than one in every ten graduates notes that they were seeking alternative employment opportunities because they were dissatisfied with their jobs.” Most were employed full time. Seven percent of the graduates with Bachelor’s degrees could find...Only part-time work. Also of significance, the study reports, "Most of the graduates at the Bachelor’s level were earning in fall 1975 between $8,000 and $11,000. The median national income for all recent graduates in the United States for 1975 was $14,350." Even though most college graduates find work enjoyable, profitable, and relevant to their interests, some do not. According to Mildred English, Director of Placement at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte (UNC-C), there are many reasons graduates cannot find jobs. She says students like Leslie Jacobs, who had trouble deciding what her major would be, fall into the category of the confused student. Miss English attributes some of this confusion to students’ attitudes. "Some students are too restrictive in what they'll consider," she says. "If you automatically say you're not interested in sales, for instance, you limit yourself. You may be interested and not know it because there is so much involved in sales."

Some students are not at all confused. That does not mean they found a career. What if you were Steve Reesing? Reesing, a UNC-C architecture graduate, prepared his resume and a portfolio and made the rounds of the architecture firms in Charlotte as well as in other cities. He never found a job. Reesing now works for the city of Charlotte’s transportation department. To get a job after college, Miss English said, a student should start early and plan into his schedule the time to think and act on future plans. "Not necessarily decide on a career," she adds, "but decide on a major and get summer and part-time employment experience."

Will Terry, Dean of Students, said a college can help its students get jobs. He thinks Davidson College should begin early by helping freshmen broaden their vision of what they can do. "For example," he says, "the students who won't be able to get into medical school, but are committed to that direction, we need to begin talking to them in terms of other health-related fields."

"Some students are too restrictive in what they'll consider..."

The Department of Labor has its own list of what they’ve found to be the most effective means of getting a job:
1. Direct application to the employer.
2. Get friends and relatives to help.
3. For good students, the college placement office can help.
4. Try a private employment office.

The department said looking through newspaper ads to find a job is not very effective. Padilla’s UNC-C study backs up the Labor Department’s findings when it reports: "Most graduates learned about their current jobs either through direct contact with their employers or through friends and relatives."

It sounds easy. Get on the ball early. Decide what you want to do, meet the right people, and go to work. But what if you are Ann Wicker? Miss Wicker, a Davidson graduate with a degree in English, had a summer job in the Davidson College library. Wicker is now in Charleston to "find a job" but she’s not sure what. Ann feels now she needed more help. "I guess I’m a little disappointed because I always thought college was supposed to help me decide what I wanted to do." She continues, "I probably should have gone to a bigger school so I'd have had more choice."

Students often need help; many do not get it. According to Padilla’s report, "If one assumes that each and every student needs ‘guidance’ with his career plans or with the process of selecting a major, then the fact that 70 percent felt guidance counselors were ‘not important at all’ would be indicative of a severe shortcoming in providing these services." The report adds, "Some graduates seemed to obtain degrees in fields which were not attractive to them, but yet failed to change areas of study because they felt they did not have adequate information about alternatives."

On the other hand, many students do not take advantage of the help offered them. Mildred English says her philosophy is "to serve as a facilitator. We help students get contacts if they want help, but it is up to the student to take the initiative from there." Dean Terry comments, "We don’t want to give the impression that just because you come to Davidson, you will get a job. If we did that we would be a tech school, not a liberal arts school."

Students like Damon Rauch are not ready for help. Rauch, a UNC-C graduate with a degree in English, now working with Reesing in the Charlotte Transportation Department, says, "I originally wanted to teach, but that was just an excuse to go to school. I really didn’t know what I wanted to do." He says he enjoyed school but was not dedicated to getting a job. Students like Damon, Ms. Jacobs, and Miss Whitaker are not ready to start a career because they do not know what they want to be. But they're not worried. Whitaker is planning to "write the Great American Novel." Rauch says, "Worried? Nah. I’m very comfortable now, even with this job. It’s only temporary. I’m sure the spontaneity of the future will hit me someday."