April 15, 1977

Lack of communication hurts students

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Sports Editor

Although work-study provides many students with financial aid, some students have had problems with the program. One student who was working in the library as a freshman finished her job before her time was up. She assumed that since she had finished her work, she could leave early. Eventually, she began receiving letters informing her that she had to make up the time she had not worked even though she had accomplished the amount of work designated for that time. The girl remarked, "I didn’t realize I had to make up the time. They probably told me, but I forgot. I think the college should publish more information about it."

Another work-study student had some comments. "There are so many conflicting things about work-study. You're appreciative of it because you realize you need it. And yet at the same time, you feel you’re in the dark because every aspect isn’t made clear to you at the start." Because of a communication gap, this student fell months behind in her hours she was supposed to work. Around Christmas, there was a death in her family which temporarily relieved her financial situation. "This year, I don’t need to work, but I need to put in the hours so I'll be reconsidered for financial aid next year," she said.

Another student working in an administrative office complained of a lack of time for extracurricular activities. Her job is like many other work-study positions in that "there’s no conceivable way you can study." Her suggestion as a solution to this problem, however, does not deal at all with work-study. She suggested giving course credit for labs to allow more time for other activities.

Other students have had trouble getting a work-study job for various reasons. One student’s father recently lost his job, leaving him in a difficult financial situation.

Work-study comparison reveals pay-scale, task discrepancies

By CHUCK KENNON
Staff Writer

Work-study jobs are not unique to Davidson College. They constitute at least a small portion of the financial aid packages offered to students at many colleges and universities throughout the United States. The actual number of work-study jobs, and the percentage of monetary awards they represent, varies from school to school, but the administration of this form of grant is similar in most institutions of higher learning.

As a long-standing federally funded program, the National Direct Student Loan program pays for jobs to help defray the rising costs of education. Some states also provide money for the program, which they distribute through work-study jobs.

Vanderbilt University

Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, has about 500 undergraduate students in these "no more than work-study jobs," according to Ms. Roberta Stevens of that school’s financial aid office. She explained that most students there do not need financial aid, and that only 20 percent of their students receive aid at all. The pay for work-study jobs is $2.30 an hour (the federal minimum wage) and varies depending on the skills required and the type of work performed. Stevens added that students perform clerical tasks or work in the library.

University of the South

Ms. D. Chittney, the Director of Financial Aid and Career Services at the University of the South (Sewanee), described a somewhat different approach to work-study as a part of scholarship packages. "We have a real active program. Roughly 30 percent of our student body is engaged in work-study tasks. We require most scholarship students to accept aid in the form of work. The more a student is willing to work, the less he or she has to take out in loans," she said. "The average student works six to eight hours a week at $2.30 an hour. We have students performing a wide assortment of tasks, ranging from summer non-profit jobs to translating work for foreign language professors to hospital work. We have lots of money available for this and our system works fine," she concluded.

Williams College

Williams College, in Williamsburg, Massachusetts, pays according to a sliding scale, starting with the minimum wage. Their students are routinely offered work-study jobs as part of scholarships, and the student can accept the job or take out a larger loan instead.

Swarthmore College

Swarthmore College, in Pennsylvania, employs from one-quarter to one-third of its 1225 students in jobs. The pay scale runs from $2.00 to $2.60. Elizabeth Dow, the Director of Financial Aid there, said that the pay depends on the student’s skills and the number of semesters spent at that job. "Not everybody on a scholarship has a federally-funded work-study job. Some find other jobs on campus or in the community," she said.a financial jam. In order to receive financial aid, he was required to fill out a Parents’ Confidential Statement (PCS). The form is a report of the previous year’s income, however, and the student’s father had a steady job in that previous year. He remarked, “She (Brenda Parnell, Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid) referred me to Ron Scott or Chip Stone, but both were filled up. So I got a hold of Rob Mitchell and started delivering The Davidsonians.”

One freshman’s parents got a divorce, forcing her into financial troubles. The college has not approved her for financial aid because she has some stocks. However, she is not allowed to touch the stocks for another two years. Consequently, she has been forced to apply for a government loan. Commenting on the difficulty of receiving financial aid in general, one student remarked, “You have to be a pain in the ass and go plug ’em.”

Dow then explained that Swarthmore was caught in the fiscal pinch felt by similar institutes across the country. She then said that they would continue to fill the needs of all their students needing financial aid.

William and Mary

The College of William and Mary also pays the minimum wage. Mr. E. Leo Looney, the Director of Student Aid, elaborated on their program, “A few students doing skilled tasks, like working with the computers, or on individual jobs such as being a security guard, make slightly higher. Some don’t have financial assistance but have jobs directly funded by the school. Actually, NDSL pays only a small amount of total funding for that: out of 800 or so with work-study jobs, only 150 are federally funded,” Looney said.

William and Mary has 4200 undergraduate students. “Every student granted financial aid is given a job offer and it’s up to the student to accept it or not. Work-study jobs are then filled by those having the highest need because they can't afford to take out any more loans,” he said. The State of Virginia makes a sizable amount of money available to schools there to use for supporting work-study jobs, according to Looney. He concluded by saying that academic offices and their library are the two biggest employers. A handful of graduate students are given jobs similar in nature to graduate teaching assistantships.

Opinion

Complaints correct no work-study problems

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Work-study is one of the most popular issues about which 20 percent of the student body likes to complain. But that’s all they do... complain. They complain about losing finances during the years due to unexpected problems at home. They complain about not making enough money at their work-study job. They complain about having to work twice as hard spring term to make up for not making enough money fall and winter terms.

The complaints are valid. But they can do more than complain; they can actively find solutions to their gripes. Provisions in the work-study program enable students who lose finances during the year through emergency funds. Students who find they are not making enough money at one job can go to the work-study office and get another job. If students cannot make $800 a year, they need not worry; they must make $600 minimum during the year which includes any money earned during vacation. If they cannot make the $600, their scholarship money (that part of the loan which they do not have to pay back) will be taken away; they are not kicked out of Davidson. Each check contains a statement on how much the student has earned. He can figure out how much he still must earn to prevent the “spring term crunch” of having to work twice as hard.

The point, like so many of the problems Davidson students have, is communication... or lack of it. Mrs. Parnell is in her office. Her job is to solve any problems a student might have over work-study. Davidson, you just don’t assert yourself. If you have a problem, don’t just complain about it to your friends. Go to Parnell and yell. If you do not get results, then you have something to complain about. But unless you at least try, you have nothing to say.