April 15, 1977

The Davidsonian

IMAC Report

All-Stars chew Big Red but choke

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

The IMAC All-Stars, led by Rob Murray, Mike Peskosky, Adrian Wilson, and Dick Myrick, lost a heartbreaker to the Big
Red Team, 93-89, in the first annual Bad Bernard-Hogman Charity game. Tim Bowker paced the second stringers with 27 points
while Locke White and Brian Coffey each added 20. Twenty-five dollars was raised for muscular dystrophy, and after discussing the
cause with some of the basketball coaches, we have decided to send the money directly to a poor, sickly youngster
in Gray, Georgia by the name of Al UNNNNHHHHHH!!!! Wood. No telling what it might do for him.

The game was highly mediocre until late in the contest when the flashy Mike Knowles stole the show. Decked out
in white Chucks with no socks, the lanky junior almost won the game for the All-Stars. Unfortunately, he was playing
for the Red Team. Danny Hock, Carter Todd, and White combined for 18 fouls in just 23 attempts and set
a new record for fouls in charity competition. Eat your heart out, Guinness Book of World Records.

It has been a most exciting week in the world of IMAC softball. Still, the big news is...

Runners take 11th

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team finished 11th in the 18th annual Davidson Relays, but outstanding individual performances were turned in by
Jarry Taylor and Carl McPhail. Taylor won the hammer throw with a toss of 135’2”. It was the second straight
year that he has won the event. McPhail captured the 400-meter intermediate hurdles with a time of :55.24. As a
result of this year’s addition of several new events measured in meters, this was a new record for the event.

The Relays were won by Pembroke with a score of 75, followed closely by Appalachian and Carson-Newman. Davidson scored 20
points to place in the middle of the pack. Coach Sterling Martin commented on the annual meet: “I felt the
event itself was the biggest and best yet. There were 27 teams and a total of 550 individual competitors. The
quality of the competition was extremely high (eight new records were set for the event) due to the addition of
such teams as Duke, Pembroke, and Indiana (Pa.).”

Martin felt the Davidson team, as a whole, did well but the competition was extremely stiff, which prevented the Wildcats
from scoring more than 20 points.

In the women’s competition, Nora McNeill won the 100-meter dash (:13.47), Berkley Mann placed second in the high jump (4’9”),
and Kathy Wilson finished second in the long jump (14’4”). The lady Wildcats placed second in the competition with 53
points. Duke captured first with 88 points.

Davidson’s next meet is with the Citadel on Saturday, April 16 in Charleston, S.C. Coach Martin feels this will be
an extremely tough meet and strong individual performances will have to be relied upon heavily.

...that no one on campus has been able to beat Off Again. The young men from Off Again, led by
Gary Barnes’ home run, which has still not landed, and the Phantom four-man, won their sixteenth...straight consecutive game in a
row without a loss. The Cannonballs, last week's #5 team, nipped Rock and Roll Sunoco, 11-7, and then two days
later lost their first game of the season to the up-and-coming Jungle Queen. The Queenies have a human cannon that
plays shortstop and a vacuum cleaner in left. They might just win it all. ROTC was charged with being AWOL
as they forfeited their game with Your Face. These young scholars are still undefeated and it looks as if no
one will be able to do it up in Davidson Relays. (Irv Wilson)

The Flaming A's stayed hot as they avoided the Red Sux, 12-6. Some other scores that are of no significance
to anyone are: Buck’s Truck Stop over the Goodwinites, 14-5; the Ragmen plugged Wood’s Hole, 14-1, and one partial score
just in.

In women’s softball, it appears that we will have no winner this year since all the teams are gradually being
disqualified for forfeits. It seems with all this warm weather the girls are afraid that their make-up will run if
they play. Take that, coeds.

The game of the century is shaping up for this week as the undefeated Gozinyas, ranked no. 4, take on
the unbeaten lads from Off Again. The game will not be televised as scheduled because Sam did not want all
the TV viewers to see what shabby IMAC fields we have. But, we do have a three-hole golf course. There
have been some great volleyball battles in the gym for the last six weeks but unfortunately, we still have no
scores to report. More on that later. And yes, once again softball.

1. Off Again .999
2. Baby Rick's Bar & Grill .951
3. Flaming A's .980
4. Gozinyas .979
5. Your Face .990
6. Presto’s Grill .960
7. Jungle Queen .978
8. SPE#I1 .950
9. KA .934
10. Cannonballs

PENINGER’S FLOWER & GIFT SHOP
DAVIDSON SHOP NOW OPEN FOR BUSINESS
(at old bike shop location)
Hours: 10-4 Mon.-Fri.
10-1 Sat.
892-6766 — FTD and FLORAFAX Delivery available for Mother’s Day May 8th

Take your life in your own hands. Nine out of ten breast cancers are discovered by women themselves. If you're
not already examining your breasts because you don’t know how, any doctor or qualified nurse will be glad to help
you. Breast self-examination is a gentle art of self-defense. It takes only a few minutes a month. It’s simpler and
faster than putting on your eye make-up. And certainly more important. Think about it before you turn the page. Nothing
you can do for yourself is as easy or has as much effect on your future health and happiness. We
want to cure cancer in your lifetime. Give to the American Cancer Society.

American Cancer Society
