October 21, 1977

Students shed blood for Red Cross

By NANCY McNAIR
Features Editor

Davidson College is well on its way to meeting a goal of 433 units of blood donated to the American Red Cross with the fall blood drive netting 272 units.

Linda McCannell, Assistant Director of the Blood Program for the Greater Carolinas Chapter of the American Red Cross, stated that 1000 such units a day are processed by the Piedmont Carolinas Center. The 272 units donated at Davidson comprised little more than a quarter of those needed for the day by the 106 hospitals in the Piedmont Carolinas Chapter.

The Red Cross emphasized that all of the donor blood is given voluntarily. The donors are screened verbally before donating, and their blood is screened clinically before it is sent to the hospital for histories of diseases such as hepatitis and malaria.

“If someone were being paid for donating blood, I would question his reason for giving. It would be easy for him to forget that he had had hepatitis,” she added.

Because of the many large hospitals in the Greater Carolinas Region, it ranks fifth in the U.S., behind Boston, Philadelphia, Detroit, and Los Angeles in the number of units of blood processed each year.

To cope with this 1000 units per day demand, the Piedmont Carolinas Chapter dispatches seven bloodmobiles each weekday to schools, shopping centers, and businesses to collect blood.

Come to the cabaret...

ON THE AISLE PRODUCTIONS will bring the glittering musical “Cabaret” to Love Auditorium on Thursday, October 27. The story of an innocent little tramp and her British boyfriend caught in the whirl of pre-war German nightlife, it promises to be the fall event at Davidson.

The production is full of vivacious songs and animated characters which have held a spot on Broadway for three years. Davidson's Graham Smith will have a part in the musical.

Tickets to the 8:15 pm performance are available at the Union desk at $2.50 for college affiliates and $5.00 for all others.

Such a great demand might seem like preparation for a vampire’s holiday, but Dorothy Butler estimated that a single open-heart surgery candidate at Charlotte Memorial Hospital demonstrates the daily need.

Mrs. Butler of Charlotte Memorial’s blood bank estimated that for the day of surgery, a patient needs 10 units of whole blood, 10 of platelets, and 6 of fresh frozen plasma.

“With two to three hearts per day, five days a week, the numbers add up,” she said. “Although the physician would like to have the 10 units of whole blood, this is not always possible because it depends on what the Red Cross has available,” she added.

Any unused blood which remains viable is redistributed through the Red Cross.

The need for blood is an ever-increasing demand with which the Red Cross must plan to cope. The 195,000 units of blood needed this year will increase by 20 percent next year.

According to McCannell, the Carolinas Chapter has a support system with other cities, “but we have never been in really bad shape.”

Only five percent of the general population gives blood at present. “I feel like a hypocrite when I urge people to donate — but I’m ten pounds underweight to give blood,” noted McCannell.

She stated, however, that she urges non-donors to make their contribution to the Red Cross effort by encouraging others to donate.

Silkspun, the student band from the Homecoming Talent Show, will be featured in the 900 Room Friday night. Featuring Angela Weir on the piano, Chip Carter on guitar, Cine Doran as vocal, Martha Sanford on bass, and Roger Brown on the drums, the group promises to weave a silken tapestry of everything from Duke Ellington to Mick Jagger. Showtime will be 9:30 and 11 pm.

An Egyptian Dinner replete with music and decorations will be held in the 900 Room on Saturday, October 29 at 6 pm.

Second in a series of international dinners sponsored by the Union Minorities Committee, it will feature authentic Egyptian cuisine.

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 892-0208

Known as a “man with an ugly cause,” Ken Wooden will bring his story of the juvenile system in the U.S. to Davidson College on Tuesday, October 25.

Wooden, the author of Weeping in the Playtime of Others, has become a consultant for the Washington D.C. National Right to Read Effort as well as the Gallup Poll.

Wooden will present the results of his 30-state investigative efforts at 10 am in the Gallery and at 8 pm in the 900 Room.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

First Union National. DAVIDSON