January 21, 1977

2

... Kello discusses Fellows

N.C. Fellows Class of 1980

Nancy Catron
James Crane
Susan Davidson
Meredith Durden
Amy Edmunds
Roger Hodge
John Jackson
Nancy McNair
Elizabeth Thomas

[Continued from page 1]
composed of the NCF director and assistant director, dean of students, one faculty member, one outside member, and three NC
Fellows, operates in a policy-making capacity.

According to Kello, if incoming classes are kept small, NCF’s funds will be adequate to help those who need financial
assistance, and greater individual attention can be provided to the students.

In discussing the program as a whole, Kello noted a recent trend of emphasis on the summer internship aspect of
NCF to the exclusion of the program’s other opportunities.

Kello feels that NCF goes beyond the opportunities provided by the Experiential Learning Office in three ways, and that interest
in NCF should extend beyond attention to summer internship possibilities.

First, students are given the chance to “interact with one another.” Having a lounge in Philanthropic Hall allows the students
to “experience one another in an intensive way.” NCF mailboxes in the Hall allow for immediate and constant communication among
students and inter-Fellow news.

Second, NCF has a “structured speakers program” with outside leaders talking informally at NCF luncheons.

And third, a student workshop is set up with the Center for Creative Leadership in Greensboro, providing Davidson NC Fellows
the opportunity to discuss in detail various aspects of leadership.

Changes in the existing NCF program being considered by Kello include the organization of the luncheon meetings, with guest speakers
from the faculty, Trustees, and nearby businessmen, on a regular basis. Also, Kello

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

The Davidsonian

would like to have these “proven quantities” speak to campus-wide audiences.

Additionally, Kello wants a fuller accounting by students of their summer experiences, entailing what the internship involved and an evaluation
of the experience.

But Kello’s major concern is that the college be “more generally informed about what is going on” in the program.
He feels that some sort of a “packet of information” of NCF’s aims, goals, and means would aid student recommenders
in assessing the students’ qualifications. And a “short hand sketch” of the program’s activities, periodically published, would make the college
as a whole more aware of the program and its opportunities and activities.

SGA Report

STUDENTS awoke Thursday morning to find winter's third snowfall blanketing the Davidson campus.

(Irv Wilson)

Senate forms committees

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

In a rather routine meeting, the Senate this week dealt with committee formation, distribution of the Senate Handbook and the
date and time for future meetings.

SGA President Thom Young wants all the committees to meet and formulate a long-range goal and several short-range goals. He
also wants committee chairmen to use people outside of the Senate and to involve freshmen for their input.

The Overcrowding Committee was singled out for its work in providing the impetus to open Rusk House for next year.
Young indicated that the Senate now considers the House Patterson Court Council’s problem, and has turned it over to them
for solution.

The Senate’s main business concerned the formulation of committees. Current SGA committees and their chairmen are as follows: Communications—SGA Vice-president
Bruce Brown; Overcrowding—Lynn Langley (’79); Community Relations—Will Miller (off campus); Student Interaction—David Barnard (President—’79); Security—Hans Watford (Sentelle); and Course Evaluation—Dana
English (Little-Carnegie).

All senators were given a Senate Handbook which contains the Senate By-laws and minutes. Further supplements can be added as
the need arises.

Guy DiCenzo (Belk) will coordinate the car pool that takes students to the Charlotte Airport during break.

Finally, it was established that unless otherwise stated, the Senate will meet each Monday night at 8:30 in the Conference
Room of the Union.

Outside of the meeting, Freshman Aida Doss is the only person to date to show any interest in taking over
the chancellorship of the SGA. It is not definitely clear if the present chancellor, Sam Crawford, will step down from
his salaried position. A decision on this matter is pending.

The Davidsonian and the Union present

A Seminar in Journalism with AP reporter

Bob Cullen

Friday, Jan. 21, 2-5 in the 900 Room

March 1, 1977.

Opportunities for Graduate Training in Medical Research and Education

The Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake Forest University offers graduate training leading to the Ph.D. in the areas
of Anatomy, Biochemistry, Comparative & Experimental Pathology, Microbiology & Immunology, Pharmacology, and Physiology. Programs leading to the M.S. degree are
available in Biochemistry, and in Microbiology & Immunology. Career opportunities for teaching and research in the Biomedical Sciences are very
favorable. Funds for stipend and research support of qualified applicants are available through Dean’s Fellowships, teaching assistantships, training grants, and
tuition scholarships. Applications requesting financial aid must be completed by

Rusk decision delayed

[Continued from page 1]
committed to their cause. He said, “One cannot form a house on the base of a bunch of disappointed people
who could not get in through self-selection. You have to be dedicated in what you’re doing.”

However, a decision was tabled because the committee felt it needed more time and information. The committee decided to meet
next Thursday and vote then.
