September 10, 1977

"Five more cakes from on and had a party," rman said.

The freshman talent show was where people were clamping out "Magic molars" and fan Terry of fixing an eight-foot girl. And the talent show was the best because it got our entire class involved," said Charles Luecker. "There was some very close administration work with students during the first week. Some students got tired of it. Orientation was great. They were interested and put you in a relaxed mood, keeping you busy enough so you didn't start thinking about missing your friends," said Anne.

"About orientation, you get tired of Love Auditorium after you've gone in there so many times," said Ed Trumbull.

But even Trumbull liked Chalmers Davidson’s talk on college history. "To sit there and listen to the guy talk about the college and the past and all the little stories about the school was fascinating. That man knows so much about this school," he said.

Orientation changed some freshmen’s views on the college. "I expected a bunch of preppy guys coming in talking about how much their dads make. It wasn’t that way. There’s a pretty good variety of people here, about as much variety as you could expect," said James Baskin.

And if orientation didn’t change others’ views, it at least helped them to get adjusted. "We weren’t as intimidated by the college because orientation made us feel important. Instead of coming in with everybody else and feeling that we were on the bottom, we were the ones who got all the attention. That helps a lot psychologically," said Charles Luecker.

Baskin added, "Because of orientation I feel like I know everything I could know about the college by this time. If I can just learn to take notes and get some study habits down, I think I can be confident."

Freshman Advisor Meg Campbell said that she’s spotted a difference in this year’s freshman class. "They're more confident. At least the girls seem more confident. I’ve only seen them in social situations but I’ve noticed more girls walking to parties by themselves. It’s not the usual hall mass," she said.

Anne Stanback agreed that freshman girls were confident, but added, "After going to classes I don’t feel as confident as I did before."

"I do feel at home. It’s all very familiar now. But confident? I'll have to wait awhile before I get in the routine. It’s just me that’s not confident. Everything else around here is confident and you pick it up," said Nan Zimmerman.