April 29, 1977

—— as
Bet you can’t understand English

By SIDNEY MYERS
Guest Columnist

To test your understanding of the English language see how much sense you can make out of the following paragraph of “Britlish”:

“From the underground[1] we went to queue[2] up for his lorry[3]. He lifted his bonnet[4], checking underneath with his torch[5] for any defects with his biro[6], dropping his rubber[7] accidentally as he did so. Inside he sat on his ice lolly[8] and used a serviette[9] to wipe off the mess from his trousers[10]. Now he was off, behind a caravan[11], round the roundabout[12]. On his way, he went past a solicitor[13] in a waistcoat[14] and bowler[15], eating a Wimpy[16]. Beside him was a child in nappies[17] with a bag of sweets[18] which he threw into the dustbin[19]. They were heading toward the Big Dipper[20], where he could get some candy floss[21].”

One cannot help but feel that Mark Twain was right when he wrote “Britain and America are two countries separated by a common language.” Experiences of the Rusk Scholars bear witness to this fact and the differences in the language have caused quite a few problems for some of them.

Patrick Macaskie, for example, walked casually into the Student Store and asked the lady at the counter for a “rubber.” At first, she pretended not to have heard him, but could not hide her obvious embarrassment. Patrick persisted, however, pointing to the erasers under the counter and the poor lady eventually saw what he meant, just as Patrick himself realized what he had said. Lucy Carlisle had an equally, if not more, embarrassing experience on the tennis courts, when she innocently asked her opponent whether he wished to “knock up” before their game. The poor guy in question, realizing she could not have meant what she said, timidly attempted to explain the meaning of an expression which in England simply means to warm up before a game. The misunderstanding was finally cleared up, but not before some awkward moments on and around the court!

Nick Bitel spent five minutes trying to get some French fries in the Snack Bar. Naturally, he asked for “chips,” but of course the guy serving did not have the slightest idea what he was talking about. “You know, those!” said Nick, pointing to the fries. “Oh, you want French fries,” said the waiter. “Yes,” replied Nick, “that’s what I said, a bag of chips!”

I have managed to overcome the problem to a greater extent, owing to the fact that I was in California for two months before coming to Davidson and so had a chance to learn the language! However, I still continue to confuse people by asking for a “biscuit” instead of a “cookie” and by saying that I’m going to the “loo,” a common English colloquial term for the lavatory. Believe me, I get the strangest looks from people!

Not content with asking for “rubbers” in the Student Store, Patrick told me of another equally hilarious incident which occurred at the beginning of the term. Seeing someone with a cigarette, he asked them if they had a fag in their mouth. The American student, unaware that fag means cigarette in England, looked at him with amazement. Unable to understand his astonishment, Patrick repeated the question and it was some time before the poor American knew what he was talking about and fortunately an international incident was avoided!

Philippa Keil said she had the most trouble with her name. Her first bank statement was addressed to “Phillyspa Keil,” and she says most Americans find it simpler to call her “Pippa.” However, she also had a lot of trouble with clothes. Great confusion ensued when she told her American roommate she was going to put on a “jumper.” “Jumper” in England means a “sweater,” while it means what we call a “pinafore” in America which in turn is called an “apron” in England. Just to add to the confusion, “overalls” in this country are known as “dungarees” in England which apparently just mean jeans or pants over here.

Neil Howlett, who has been to the States several times before, remarked that he has learned to avoid such pitfalls, but pointed out that this is his first visit to this country when he has not been asked whether he has personally met either the Beatles or the Queen (in that order!).

Remember Mom!
Sunday, May 8
.. With a Hallmark card and gift!

"A WORLD OF GIFTS"
THE VILLAGE STORE
Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners

COOKOUT
Tuesday, May 3rd
5:00-6:30 pm
Richards House and lawn

MENU: charcoal hamburgers and hotdogs, baked beans, corn on the cob, potato chips, cole slaw, brownies, iced tea, punch

A different kind of meal from your food service staff.