May 6, 1977

AND THEN LEAVE?

By ERICA GJERSVIK
Features Editor

Bill Behrends transferred for “about a million reasons all of which don’t speak well of Davidson,” he said. After transferring
to the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor last year, Behrends saw that his academic and social expectations could be
fulfilled. “I am finding about everything that was missing at Davidson and I am very glad I transferred.”

The number of courses offered at a large university cannot be matched by a small college. “Regardless of what Davidson
would like to claim, a small college has limited resources.” Behrends, now double-majoring in Applied Math and Computer Science, found
that he could not get the courses or facilities that he wanted at Davidson.

The social scene was more than disappointing. “The people at Davidson were into athletics, fraternities, the dating situation, achieving and
status games. Here the interests are varied because there are so many different kinds of people.” Those immature social games
were a real annoyance and Behrends felt that it affected his growth. “Because of my two years at Davidson I
feel that I have to catch up with everyone my age now.”

Davidson, in its isolated setting, does not have a wide range of activities and night spots nearby. “A bigger college
and a bigger town means that I can enjoy a different restaurant every night of the week,” Behrends noted. In
Davidson, “I couldn’t buy a peanut butter sandwich on a Sunday afternoon.”

Betsy Scott, a rising senior at Warren Wilson International College in Asheville, N.C., transferred from Davidson two years ago after
her freshman year. She left for a number of reasons. “The kids at Davidson are quite well off and one
thing that bothered me was the way the college ran.” At Warren Wilson, Scott explained, students do all the work
ranging from field work in the school-owned farm, upkeep of the campus and dorms, to secretarial and administrative aspects of
the college.

Davidson students are “oriented towards the future,” and the academic orientation of college was not all that she saw as
important to her college experience. Students at Warren Wilson “are more involved in the community. To graduate from the college
you have to put in 60 hours toward a service project for the community.”

What Scott was looking for was a sense of working community. “I found Davidson separated from the rest of life.”
Feeling that it was “more real than say jumping into studying politics,” she finds that Warren Wilson, with approximately 450
students, is “a very real place to be” where the community is both “small and positive.”

Gary Danciger was wasting his life... “I was not getting a great education, doing a lot of work, and not
having a good time.” A senior at Cornell, he said, “You're given a large amount of work to do but
the difficulty of it was not a problem. This reflects on the majority of students at Davidson who were not
intellectuals but grade grubbers... They aren't smart but they work hard.”

In a more stimulating atmosphere, Danciger has “become so much more serious about studying... it is a rarity when I
don’t spend most of the day studying,” he said. Disappointed with the physics department at Davidson, Danciger felt that the
books used in the introductory course were outdated and that “atomic physics was a waste of time.” At Cornell, he
can take graduate courses that accelerate much faster.

He didn’t feel that many opportunities were open to him at Davidson because of its “exceedingly southern, graduate school-oriented” atmosphere.
He believed his personal life would have suffered.

Kennon, now a junior at Florida State University in Tallahassee, transferred into what he would call “more of a real-world
situation” where academically and socially he has more of a choice. “The curriculum is 100 times as varied and the
people are 100 times as diverse.”

In his camper located outside of the city, he isn’t regulated by the needs and wants of the university like
Davidson students are. “A community like Davidson doesn’t teach you how to deal with the world. Living in the city
where people don’t give a damn about you, you begin to deal with what’s going to be next in a
germ-free environment where education is just from the textbook.” Now he deals with more than just the review the next
day. Kennon commented that “I’ve had to grow up.”

THE VILLAGE STORE
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C.

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Local Artists Gallery
Mooresville, 663-1503

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
CHICKEN • VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
WINES and BEERS

Will Feature For The Month Of May
Elizabeth Bradford Millsap

She has been shown by the Davidson College Union and by the Allied Arts Council, Statesville, N.C. She studied art
at Randolph Macon Woman's College, UNC Chapel Hill, and at Davidson College with Professor Herb Jackson.

The public is invited to meet Mrs. Millsap at the store gallery on May 21, 10:00 AM until noon, and
to enjoy her work there.
