April 29, 1977 IMA Report

Killer Watts receives big crown

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

This week the courageous combo of Bad Bernie and Hogman has a special one-part series on girls’ softball for all of you. Our team feature is on those gorgeous goons better known as Killer Watts. After a long IMAC season, it appears as if those young ladies from 3rd Watts have finally gotten over the hump and have successfully climaxed their year. The beauties swept the basketball tourney, came in second in flickerball, and now have captured the softball crown as well as the hearts of many a young Davidson lad.

We realize that these girls are not just typical D.C. coeds, because after seeing them in action, we can testify just to how fast they are. They had moves and positions that Hogman never even knew existed. It became clear that every time these girls went down on the IMAC fields (during the day) they were ready for business. We would like to honor as Coed Jocks of the Year: AFTER SWEEPING the basketball court and nearly clipping the flickerball field, Killer Watts has polished.

(Irv Wilson)

Track team snags impressive victory

By GEORGE STROBEL
Staff Writer

The Davidson Track team scored an impressive victory last Saturday against Emory and Henry 81½-71½. Davidson was led by many stars, but the efforts of Carl McPhail, Doug Horn, and Phil Gilbert stand out as each of these men won more than one event.

Doug Horn won the 800 m., 1500 m., and 5000 m. with smart races. Horn stayed close to his opponent during most of the races and then kicked it home at the end, beating his opponent by no more than two seconds in each race. He commented on his 5000 m. race, “I just leached on his back until about a mile left and then I blew him out.” Horn’s times were 2:02.65 for the 800 m., 4:12.1 for the 1500, and 16:23.1 for the 5000.

Gilbert came on strong to win the long jump and 200 m. dash. The long jump was an especially close event with 3/4ths of an inch separating first and third place. The winning jump was 20’2¾”. Gilbert had to finish fast to guarantee a victory in the 200 m. His time was 23.5.

But it was McPhail who stole the show. He won the Triple Jump, 400 m. intermediate hurdles, and the 100 m. dash. McPhail also placed second in the 200 m., third in the high jump, and 110 m. high hurdles.

Other winners included Jerry Taylor with a throw of 129’1” in the hammer, Miller McClintock with a jump of 5’10” in the high jump, and John Lewis with a vault of 11’6” in the pole vault. Virgil Fludd, Steve Justus, and Jeff Morrow also had strong performances to win points for Davidson.

Davidson will be competing in the Southern Conference Track and Field championships at Furman this weekend.

Mio Lynn, BT, Banita, Ginger, the Anns, Cent, Cybil, MG, Cathy, and Beth W., the stars of Killer Watts, for the exceptional way they played around this year.

Back in the real world now, this past week in softball and of course, some that were not too major. Our #1 team last week, the Gozinyas, approached the softball diamond last Thursday with the common disease of the “Big Head.” Granted they may all be big heads, but this disease refers to their inflated egos. This was quickly cured, however, as YourFace prescribed an eight-run first inning, and the young boys could not recover. We have taken back our Athlete of the Week award we presented to Soto last week, and at this very moment Bad Bernard is in his room confiscating the plaque he was presented. Bernard is very good at taking things from people’s rooms. Your Face remained smooth and won the game, 14-12. The Flaming A’s, led by Dave Thomas’ grand slam, set fire to Presto’s Grill and knocked them from our second spot, 7-5. Off Again did a number on the Longest Yard as they inched by them, 8-1. It was reported that Dave Ellison played exceptionally poor in this game. Jungle Queen has now come out of the bushes and has emerged as our #2 team this week. They closed down Buck’s Truck Stop, 14-0. We knew they were good all along. The rumor is that Tenafly might have pitched the first IMAC no-hitter in that game. The dashing young studs from Cannonius Basementius proved themselves worthy as they clubbed the Goodwinites, 15-1. Tim Bowker now leads all sluggers with 27 home runs this year. Baby Rick's Bar and Grill walloped the Fiji’s, 11-1, and then molested Wood's Hole, 22-4, before dropping a heartbreaker to the KA’s, 4-3. The KA’s jumped back into our Terrific Ten after a week’s absence. They abused One Track Mind, 21-11, and then clamped down on Wood's Hole, 21-5. Our “Sleeper” of the year is Porky Pig and the Quarter Pounders. After going unnoticed almost all year, they have emerged with an unbeaten record. They nipped both Chocolate Speedway and the SAE’s last week. Do it, Dr. Shi. One interesting note from this past week is that 4th Richardson, after showing up on the wrong field, played a pick-up game among themselves and won their first game of the year.

Terrific Ten
1. Your Face 6-0
2. Jungle Queen 6-0
3. Flaming A’s 6-0
4. Gozinyas 5-1
5. Off Again 6-1
6. Presto’s Grill 5-1
7. Porky Pig and the Quarter Pounders 6-0
8. Cannonballs 5-1
9. Baby Rick’s Bar & Grill 6-1
10. KA #1 5-2

Please don’t forget about the Berta and Bernie Backgammon Tourney. The sign-up deadline is April 30th and play begins on May 2nd. Stay surreal Sam and Spot.

Earlier, P.E. department changes directors
By PAT HICKERT
Staff Writer

Sterling Martin will be taking over the directorship of the physical education department from Chip Stone, effective this fall. The college decided earlier this year not to renew Stone’s contract, and is presently trying to find a person to coach both soccer and track. Martin will be giving up the track position to concentrate on his duties in the area of phys. ed., IMAC sports, club sports, and director of the lake campus. He will remain as cross country coach. Martin is returning to the position he held before Stone was hired in 1972. He does not foresee making any major changes in the policies and programs of the department.

(MOTHER’S DAY is Sunday, May 8th. Come to John Mack’s and let us help you select that special gift for Mom. Whether your wish is for a very modest remembrance or something extra special, we have a good selection for your choosing. FREE GIFT WRAPPING)