a Christian tenure inconsistent with College’s ideals
April 22, 1977
© DAVIDSON O

Davidson's Christian Commitment originally sought to preserve priceless truths born in ages past. The reasoning was that to inculcate good
old Judeo-Christian virtues was to invest in our nation’s moral and spiritual future. Given the events of the past week,
however, the time for reconsideration has come. We must now examine carefully the implications of the Christian Tenure requirement both
from the standpoint of academic excellence and moral propriety, for on both counts it remains an anachronistic relic—an abysmal failure.

First, consider the argument that our institution has been charged with the grave and delicate responsibility for teaching individuals the
value of the “moral” life. Obviously, the desire to promote Truth and Beauty is unimpeachable—no one in their right mind
would consider thumbing his (or her) nose at Goodness. On the other hand, it is reasonable to ask whether or
not the exclusion of alternative religious opinions, if only embedded deeply within the psyche of the pedagogue, can possibly achieve
that commitment. The assertion that others who hold divergent religious beliefs cannot teach virtue is absurd. Their minds are not
polluted with philistinism; their bodies have not been Satanized by an alternative ethical theory. Instead, we must admit to the
possibility that human virtue may have seeped beyond the borders of Christian faith—perhaps some of it has managed to trickle
down to lesser dogmas.

Secondly, at Davidson, it is questionable whether any concerted religious indoctrination takes place outside the religion department. The fact that
other faiths are also taught within that department serves cogent notice to the fact of their tenability. If we must
teach only Christian dogma then we have a clear duty to dispense with the religion department.

Finally, the question of consistency arises. In the past, non-Christian teachers have been hired presumably because they are superlative professors.
Yet suddenly, the presence of another faith (Judaism) becomes grounds for exclusion. From a moral point of view, this is
contemptible. From a legal point of view, controversial. In essence, a Jewish teacher was offered a contract on the condition
that he deny his faith and integrity. All this at a school with a Christian commitment.

So now we have grounds for action; a time for commitment. For any individual who takes seriously our Statement of
Purpose, this is out of the question. Instead, we must be bold enough to affirm the role of virtue. And
that, in the truest Agapistic sense, means to discard the Christian Tenure requirement. It is not the time for witch
hunts; not the time to carry out personal vendettas against persons in the administration; not a time for indulging in
Inquisition. Instead, it is the time for the members of the college community to band together in a concerted display
of Christian conscience. For only by so doing can we hope to preserve our priceless past without facing a worthless
future.

Opinion
NO JEWS NEED APPLY

Council ignored
By MARK RABIL
Guest Columnist

On April 1, Dr. Spencer sent a memorandum to the Council on Campus Life stating that their protest of a
possible golf course is beyond “the scope of responsibility of the Council.” “I believe,” says Dr. Spencer, “that the original
design of the Council envisioned its responsibility to be more in the area with which the Dean of Students would
normally deal. It is the Dean of the Faculty who has the responsibility to evaluate the needs and requests of
all departments on a continuing basis and to make recommendations as to which of them should be approved.”

I would have no objections to plans for a golf course if plans for our other needs were in the
making. Should we accept, for example, $200,000 for the construction and maintenance of a three-hole golf course? Of course.Should we
accept $200,000 for the improvement of the infirmary? Of course—but first we have to make it known that the infirmary
needs to be improved just as we are beginning to make it known that it would be nice to have
a golf course. Dr. Spencer states in his memo that the proper channels for beginning the plans for a golf
course were followed in that the Dean of the Faculty evaluated and approved “the modest outlay required for the practice
area as justified in comparison with expenditures of a similar level which he has approved for other departments.”

What happens when students and faculty disagree with an administrative decision which they feel affects the “quality of campus life”?
According to the Constitution, they come to the Council on Campus Life which then advises the President if they feel
it necessary. This is exactly what happened. A group of students disagreed with the beginning of the plans for a
golf course when no plans had been made for the improvement of the infirmary or psychological guidance. The group of
students who came to Council agreed with these students and protested. Dr. Spencer replied that it is not within the
“scope of responsibility of the Council” to advise him in this area.

Davidson’s governance system, i.e. the organization of the SGA, the faculty, the advisory councils, the president, and the trustees, can
only function if it is used properly. It does not appear that the advisory council on Campus Life is being
used to its fullest advantage. Before the governance system itself is evaluated next year, there needs to be an evaluation
of how the new governance system is being used now. If the system is not being used according to the
guidelines set forth by the College Constitution, how can it honestly be evaluated when the time comes?

The Council protested the beginning of the plans for a golf course or practice area because these plans were begun
and approved before plans for the infirmary or psychological guidance were even proposed. We need to ensure that the governance
system is being used properly to address all aspects of campus life.

Catherine Landis ............... Editor
Chav Corillon ............... Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Erica Gjersvik ............... Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ............... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ............... Sports Editors
Burt Milt ............... Production Manager
Bob ............... Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson ............... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ............... Advertising Editors
John Kravet ............... Circulation Manager
Warren Soule ............... Business Manager
Marlin Geiger ............... Cartoonist
Charles Erwin ............... Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $4.00.
