Vol. LXVII, No. TWELVE

Zimmermann “surprised,” CRC to reevaluate policy

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

Speaking to an opinionated gathering of at least 75 students last Friday, Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann explained
the Curriculum Requirements Committee's recent tightening of the guidelines governing whether or not a Davidson student is allowed to take
a reduced course load. The CRC less than a month ago decided that simply being courses ahead is not just
cause for allowing a student to take a reduced course load. This decision, a departure from past procedure, has stirred
opposition from a number of students, some of whom are now courses ahead and hope to take a reduced course
load in a future term.

“There’s a lot more to a Davidson education than what one can find in the halls of Chambers—a student taking
two courses can take time to learn from the College community;” “Davidson is paternalistic and does not respect the student’s
ability to determine the academic program that best suits his needs;”—these and other opinions were voiced as student after student
sharply criticized the CRC’s decision during the one-hour meeting.

Zimmermann said later that he was “somewhat surprised by the number of students at the meeting and the intensity of
the questions.” He said he had gained a better perspective of the student viewpoints in the three-course matter and said
he would report the students’ sentiments to the CRC. “I expect the CRC will devise some means of bringing the
matter up before the faculty,” said Zimmermann.

At the close of the meeting, SGA President Thom Young recommended that the CRC reformulate the three-course policy to 1.
allow juniors and seniors to take a reduced course load with the consent of their faculty advisor, and 2. allow
freshmen and sophomores to take a reduced course load if the CRC decides they have just cause to do so.
Zimmermann said later that he “can sympathize” with Young's proposal.

“If the requirement for taking a full load is to be relaxed solely on the basis of being courses ahead,
it would be most appropriate to relax the requirement in the case of a senior, next most appropriate in the
case of a junior, and so on,” Zimmermann said. Young hopes that the CRC will recognize “that juniors and particularly
seniors are in a special situation (i.e. they have already determined a major and are taking upper-level courses) and should
be granted underloads if they are ahead in their courses.” He also believes that “now would be an excellent time
for the CRC to come out with a statement on the philosophy behind requiring three courses so we can get
the school to work together toward a common educational goal. I was really glad to see the student interest at
the meeting and I felt the students’ questions were well thought out,” Young said.

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

VICE PRESIDENT FOR Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann explains Davidson's three-course policy to students at an Open End meeting. (Greg Strader)

Dissatisfaction surfaces in poll of Slater Food Services

By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

The SGA Subcommittee on Food Quality has conducted a survey to determine student opinion on ARA Slater. The committee, consisting
of Chairman Chuck Gaddy, Elizabeth Adlin, and Margaret Allen received responses from approximately half the students eating at Slater this
year. The results indicate that

Duncan to edit Davidsonian

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Staff Writer

Election week at Davidson, and the ushering in of a new generation of campus leaders; brief interviews with the winners
of the four contested campus-wide elections follow. Junior Philip Duncan, selected by the students to be Editor of The Davidsonian,
plans to bring out 1978's first Davidsonian on Jan. 20. “During the week of January 9-14 we will be recruiting
new staff members and building the organizational base that will enable us to produce a quality newspaper from the outset,”
Duncan said. He urges all who are interestedHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In working for The Davidsonian, Duncan plans to drop by the newspaper office soon after they arrive in January. Lyman
Collins, Duncan's opponent in the election, will serve the newspaper as Executive Editor. Duncan is currently selecting the others who
will work with him and intends to announce further staffing plans early in January.

Junior David Barnard was elected as the new Union Social Vice-President. He will officially assume that position immediately following mid-winter's
weekend. "I think this transition period is a good thing," Barnard said. "Right now I'm getting oriented to how the
Union operates. This situation doesn't put me under pressure right away." He said that while he is being "educated" about
Union operations, he is making plans on the organization of Union committees. He is also "recruiting" people to be on
those committees. "I'm very, very excited. I know I'm going to learn an awful lot," he concluded.

The election for Freshman Advisors was decided in the run-off on Wednesday. Freshman Advisors for 1978-1979 will be juniors Doug
Horn and Nancy O'Connachie. "We're so excited," O'Connachie said. "It was a very close race." "We appreciate the job even
more because we had to work so hard to get it," Horn explained. "We reconfirmed to ourselves how much we
really wanted it." Both Horn and O'Connachie were quick to note the excellence of the other contenders.

47.5 percent of the students are satisfied with the entree less than 30 percent of the time. Students objected especially
to the small portions, the poor quality of the meat, and the frequency of hamburger, either by itself or incorporated
into other dishes. Director of ARA Services Ron Scott has pointed out that budget limitations must be taken into consideration.
Slater has begun using fresher cuts of meat, but larger portions would involve considerable expense. Some of the meat Slater
buys has had 4 percent soy protein meat extender added to it, but Scott says that the hamburgers served do
not contain soy protein.

Some students feel that they are not receiving nutritional meals. They blame this on the overabundance of starch and the
overcooking of vegetables. 56.6 percent found the vegetables poor or very poor. Scott points out that Slater follows a menu
prepared by dietitians, and the meals therefore are nutritionally sound. Scott says that he will try to cut down on
starches and serve more green vegetables to determine what students prefer. Vegetables are reused once if they have been left
over from another meal, and this reheating sometimes makes them appear to be overcooked.

Many students would like to see more fresh fruit available. Scott points out that this was tried in the past,
but that it proved to be very expensive because students took a large quantity of fruit back to their rooms.
Scott is willing to try this again.

A number of students have complained that Richards and Bailey Houses often close before the appointed time. Scott does not
feel that this is true, although he does plan to check if Slater time and school time are the same.
As for the problem of overcrowding, Bailey House will not be opened Sunday evenings as some students had suggested. Instead,
Richards House will open one-half hour early to accommodate students from 4:30 to 6:30 Sunday evenings. Scott also suggests that
students use Bailey on other nights if Richards is crowded.

94 percent of the students have encountered the problem of the cafeteria running out of food, leaving no dessert or
choice of entree or vegetables. Scott does not think that this figure is a true reflection of the situation, but
promises to work on "production problems." Scott believes that student opinion is important to his operation because "students can point
out areas we're weak in, areas where we should do a better job."

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for 1977. Publication will resume on January 20, 1978.
