8 [ The Davidsonian

Work-Study involves 20%

Parnell discusses “ins and outs”

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Twenty percent of Davidson College students hold work-study jobs, according to Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid Brenda Parnell. Theoretically, the Federal government funds 80 percent of the jobs and the college funds the rest, but “we spend a lot more than that because we have more students who work than funds we get,” said Parnell. The other funding comes directly from Davidson, resulting in the college paying 50 percent of the work-study wages.

Students who hold work-study jobs receive $2.20 per hour instead of minimum wage. “We have permission from the Federal government to pay below minimum,” said Parnell. “It’s been done since before I’ve been here and I don’t know what the reasoning is—just to stretch our funds a little further I would say.”

Although different jobs entail different amounts of actual work, all students are paid the same amount. “Students are paid to work and they’re supposed to devote their time to work,” said Parnell. “In some cases, they can study and I don’t think that’s fair. I just don’t know what can be done about it. Students are paid the same amount and we get more out of some than others.”

To determine which students receive financial aid, “we determine need,” said Parnell. A student with a small need is given a job, while those with larger needs receive a self-help package of a loan and a job. Part of the application for financial aid is a form asking whether a student would like a large loan or a more time-consuming job. These forms are considered heavily in determining aid, according to Parnell.

“It’s good for a student to have more job because they have less loan. With so many of the students going on to graduate school we try to keep the loan down,” she said.

The maximum amount a freshman may earn in a job is $600, while an upperclassman may earn $800-850. A student must earn a minimum of $450 (freshmen) or $600 (upperclassmen) during the school year in order to be eligible for a scholarship the next year. This amount may be earned through both work-study jobs and jobs during vacations, according to Parnell.

The upperclassmen have first preference of jobs, according to Parnell. The freshmen “get the jobs that are left over.” The Department of Admissions and Financial Aid sends questionnaires to upperclassmen asking where they would and would not like to work, and what special skills they have. At the same time, they send the job supervisors questionnaires asking what kinds of special skills are necessary for work in that department and which students the office would prefer to have working.

Parnell works around filling the needs of departments like languages, physics, or chemistry that have special needs when assigning jobs. She assigns students to supervisors who request them first, unless the student requested not to work there. She then assigns upperclassmen to their choices. “It usually works out that they get one of their first three or four choices,” she said.

Parnell emphasized that a student who has a problem with his job should come see either her or Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. “When a student has a complaint and comes to me I first try to work it out with the supervisor,” she said. “If students cannot get enough hours they should come to me and I'll find them another job. The primary obligation is to the first job, but if the department doesn’t have the hours the students are entitled to they should have another job,” she said.

Many work-study students have complained that they do not know if they are under-earning or over-earning. At the end of fall term, Parnell sent letters to these students and their supervisors informing them of their pay status. Each check stub lists how much a student has earned and how much he still needs to earn before the end of the year. Through these methods...A student can determine if he is underearning or overearning and adjust his hours. “Work-study students are told in their financial aid statement they have to earn more than the minimum,” said Parnell.

Work-study Students tap three sources for financial aid
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

Davidson College students receive financial aid through three sources: scholarships, loans, and work-study. Although much of this aid comes through the college, many outside sources help finance students, according to Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid Brenda Parnell.

Parnell listed several scholarship funds besides the college: church and civic groups, state programs, Basic Education Opportunity Grant (BEOG), National Merit, and ROTC. She believes many of these funds are available for upperclassmen and suggests contacting a high school guidance counselor for information.

Besides loans through Davidson, Parnell mentioned the Guaranteed Loan Program. “The regulations have changed so that more middle-income students can get these,” she said. “If the adjusted family income is less than $25,000, the student can receive the loan.” The Office of Admissions and Financial Aid has information on these loans.

Many job possibilities besides work-study jobs are available to students, according to her. “A few departments have funds for students who are not on financial aid, and there are opportunities in the community,” Parnell said. “There are also jobs you see in the announcement sheet.”

A number of students complain that they cannot receive financial aid if their financial situation changes during the school year. Any time there is a financial change, Parnell emphasizes that the student see either herself or Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White and amend the Parents’ Confidential Statement (PCS). “We have some money for emergencies,” she said.

Students also complain that they receive large financial aid packages their freshman year, which are gradually cut each following year. “We’re not in the business to lure students to Davidson with a good financial aid package,” said Parnell. “It would be questioning our integrity and the college’s integrity to do that. There are instances where a student receives less aid in the freshman year because the reported income for the year is more than predicted.” Part of this amount is subtracted from aid in the sophomore year, according to her.

Parnell and White try to catch inconsistencies in predicted income before offering financial aid, but adjust the aid later if this cannot be done. As part of this procedure, the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid now requires income tax statements from freshmen applying for financial aid.

Work-study pay-scale
By CHUCK KENNON
Staff Writer

Student “work-study” jobs are not unique to Davidson College. They constitute at least a small portion of the financial aid packages offered to needy students at many colleges and universities throughout the United States. The actual number of work-study jobs, and the percentage of total monetary awards they comprise, varies from school to school, but the administration of this form of grant is similar in most institutions of higher learning.

There is a long-standing federally-funded program, the National Direct Student Loan (NDSL), that pays for jobs to help relieve the rising costs of college education. Some states also provide money for the schools to distribute through work-study jobs.

Vanderbilt University
Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tennessee, has about 7000 undergraduate students. Of these, “no more than 200 have work-study jobs,” according to Ms. Roberta Stevens of that school’s financial aid office. She explained that most students there do not need financial aid, and that only 20 percent of their students receive any aid at all. The pay for work-study jobs begins at $2.30 an hour (the federal minimum wage) and goes up, depending on the student's skills and the type of job performed. Stevens added that most students perform secretarial tasks or work in the library.

University of the South
Mrs. A.D. Chittney, the