"The Davidsonian, December 9, 1977

Union anticipates three turnovers

By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

The elections for Union executives are largely predetermined, with two of the three positions running uncontested. John Monroe and David
Barnard will vie for the office of vice-president in charge of the Social Council, while Mary Jo Clark will step
into the position of Union president and Amanda Hall into the position of vice-president of the Co-Curricular Council.

David Barnard is running for Social Council vice-president stressing “how strong the Union can be.” As a member of the
Senate last year, he had a tendency to concentrate on social improvement, being active in the organization of the campus-wide
party in front of Belk last year, the Top Hats and Cat Tales talent show, and the Sophomore Class De-orientation.
In office, Barnard would like to work for a coordination of events. Some things he would like to see are
more Open Mike programs, involving the use of student talent, faculty and student “Songs and Beer,” and events such as
the marshmallow roast held earlier this year.

Wanting to get students involved in social events, Monroe would like to see more gatherings at the Lake Campus and
better publicity for other campus-wide events. Monroe feels that he could bring to the vice-presidency a natural talent for communicating
and organizing. He is mostly interested in alternatives which encourage student and community involvement.

Mary Jo Clark enters her position with substantial experience. Founder and organizer of the Union Short Courses and Wednesday Open
Luncheon, she is presently chairman of the Union Minorities Committee and ex-chairman of the Poetry Committee. As Union president, she
will work with Union Director C. Shaw and the administration in coordinating Union activities. She will channel the energy of
Social and Co-Curricular Councils to ensure smooth running, and as president is charged with activities not under either council’s jurisdiction.
Finally, the president is responsible for policy-making with respect to activities and planning. Clark wants to “enhance the Union’s function
as Davidson College’s living room, rather than Davidson’s study.” To achieve this, she will strive for improved communications and planning
with Patterson Court and the SGA and plans for the publication of a Union newsletter.

Amanda Hall, as Co-Curricular Council vice-president, will coordinate programming of cultural events on campus: those programs dealing with such series
as Open End, Evenings With, Gallery exhibits, speakers, and Fine Films. She will “serve as a communication and information source,”
to advise these committees of various possibilities for programs. Having already served as chairman of the Cultural Events Committee, Hall
comes into the position with experience. As Council vice-president, she would like to see an emphasis on American traditional events,
such as programs that Davidson is already sponsoring like Odetta and Count Basie.

Media contestants aim for innovation of Union and Patterson Court activities, feeling the students suffer from a lack of such
coordination. He also feels that spending could possibly be more efficient. One idea he would like to see the Union
investigate is offering buses to events in Charlotte: to Davidson basketball games, concerts, and other social functions. He feels costs
could be cut by using speakers and bands who are already in the area for other schools. He would also
like to see a better utilization of the physical plant, including Richardson Plaza for large gatherings and the 900 Room
for performances. John Monroe, if elected as Social Council vice-president, would like to get away from what he jokingly refers
to as the “same old, same old.”"to as Davidson’s social norm of a week of “books and (then) getting blasted
on weekends.” Having worked with the Uncommitted Committee, he would like to see more spontaneous and creative events on campus.

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Staff Writer

There are three challengers for the editorship of the Wildcat Handbook. Sophomores Noelle McHugh and Anne Woods are running for
co-editor positions, as are Sophomores Aida Doss and A.T. Miller. Junior Beverly Bortell is the third contender in the election.

McHugh and Woods want to continue to make the Wildcat Handbook a useful tool for freshmen. “As co-editors, we feel
we can achieve this goal, as we would not be limiting the handbook to one person’s creativity. Having worked together
before on self-initiated projects, we have recognized our cooperative potentials and feel that we can make a constructive contribution to
Davidson.”

Doss and Miller feel that their strong points are diversity and previous experience in publications. They hope that their varied
interests and involvements at Davidson will give them lots of creative drawing power. The two have no radical changes in
mind for the Wildcat Handbook, but they plan to work on such things as a more realistic and useful description
of the Patterson Court houses. They also want to continue to have separate Handbooks for freshmen and upperclassmen. “Actually, anybody
could put a Handbook together, but we’re willing to take on the responsibility to do it well,” said Miller.

Although running alone for the position, Bortell states that she expects to have at least a small staff and will
be open to input from others. She is currently planning on a career in mass communications or public relations, which
accounts for her interest in the position. “I think it would be a real challenge to make the Handbook attractive
enough that the freshmen will really want to read it.” As a junior, Bortell considers her experience and knowledge of
freshman needs and her familiarity with people and places in the area to be assets worthy of consideration.

Quips and Cranks
Cline

Steve Cline ’79 and Lana Sims '79 are running uncontested for the Quips and Cranks editorship. Cline and Sims were
surprised at the “lack of interest in the yearbook as evidenced by the fact that no one else is running
for the editor’s position.” However, the soon-to-be co-editors are admittedly “excited about the responsibility and enthusiastic about the job that
lies ahead.” The duo hopes to blend their ideas and previous publications experience with input from the College community and
the yearbook staff in order to produce a really creative Quips and Cranks.

Thompson nabs DAV post

Junior Carrington Thompson, running unopposed to replace current WDAV Station Manager Sid Barrett, offered these comments to The Davidsonian. “Since
I joined the staff in the fall of 1975, WDAV-FM has improved quite a bit, and the greatest improvement has
taken place since Sid Barrett took office. After helping Sid in his campaign for manager in December 1976, the enthusiasm
and dedication of the station’s managing and announcing staff have had a tremendously positive impact. Thompson said, “We have more
jazz programming than ever before. Special features are more frequent and better organized.

“Anticipating the move toward high power, I prepared a 40-page handbook covering basic announcing skills, style, correct and legal program
log procedures, equipment operation, elementary programming theory, music and audience research, and the goals of the station. I’m not planning
any major changes for the station, but I am simply to continue the goals and performance set by our current
staff.”
