September 30, 1977

The Davidsonian

Opinion — It is reported that there are some students at Davidson who can hardly wait to leave the Piedmont.
But there are some students in Davidson who have stayed for over a century — they may be found in
the cemetery on North Main Street. White marble obelisks, about five feet high, watch over the Davidson students who remain
in the shade of the town’s water supply. The monuments, about twenty yards to the left of the water tower,
were erected by the dead students’ literary societies, the Eumenean or Philanthropic, and the seal of the respective society is
on the marker. The students were buried in Davidson.

Committee encouraged

To the Editor:

Last spring the Course Evaluation Committee of the SGA set out with the goals of producing a Course Evaluation handbook
which would 1) be sent to incoming freshmen to aid them in their summer course registration and 2) be distributed
campus-wide the following fall. Well, as often seems to happen during those idyllic spring months, while the term wore on,
the Committee wore out. In fact, when the Committee members packed up for the summer, we thought our task would
have to wait until the fall for completion. However, one of the members of the Committee, Jim Clark, stayed after
exams, put his shoulder to the grindstone, and completed our unfinished task. As a result, freshmen received a very useful
course evaluation handbook. Since we have returned this fall, the response from the freshmen regarding the usefulness of the handbook
has been so overwhelmingly favorable that the Committee has now decided to quicken its pace and try to distribute an
evaluation handbook campus-wide for the November course registration period. However, in order to make it more beneficial to upperclassmen we
need to include a more comprehensive listing of courses in the handbook. At this point, we are still in the
formative stage of our effort, but with a little luck and persistence, we hope to have a Course Evaluation Handbook
available for student use in determining Winter Term courses.

Postscript: If anyone is interested in working in this area of course evaluation, feel free to contact Charlie Strange (-4616)
or Ralph Yielding (-5178).

Course Evaluation Committee of the SGA
Davidson College

Davidson was considered rural in the nineteenth century, even though it was twenty-five miles from civilization; else, why would people
be moved two miles down the road for the “atmosphere of the country?” His obituary states that he “possessed virtues”
that earned him respect. The members of the two Societies wore black armbands for thirty days. Four other students, two
of the Philanthropic and two of the Eumenean, died in the next fifteen years and also rest in the student
plot. There are two other students also buried there, but of a later time, and each has his special story.

William Andrew Goetchius entered Davidson in 1893. On a very cold day in the early part of January 1894, when
the lake near the College was frozen, some students decided to go skating. Andrew rushed upstairs in Old Chambers to
get his skates, and when returning fell over the stair railing to the floor below. He lived for a day
or two, but was terribly crushed, and died. His inscription includes these somber verses: “Sleep on beloved, sleep and take
thy rest.”. Both medical Davidson College students died trying to rescue Mr. Helper and others who had swum beyond their
depth during a Presbyterian church picnic. Mr. Helper was saved, but the two students drowned. Hobbs is buried in his
family plot not far away, but Yonan, being the son of a Persian nobleman, was far from home and was
laid to rest here. His death in this country, distant from home and kindred, is uniquely sad, and this is
emphasized by the thought of an unfinished life that had promised so much good and usefulness. Both young men, as
was noted, died as heroes, and in an effort at self-sacrifice—the noblest form of death that God allows to man.

Having seen both...

Semesters are best

To the Editor:

Although sophomore Martin Hunter is quite opposed to The Davidsonian’s recommendation of a switch to the semester system because it
would make the professors work harder and because he has some dislike for Cathy Landis, I believe Ms. Landis’ proposal
has a great deal of merit. Having personally experienced both the quarter and semester systems during my college career, it
is my opinion that the semester system has more advantages. But I would like to go one step further than
Ms. Landis and propose not only just a change to semesters, but also the addition of the hour system.

The present Davidson situation is very inflexible and that is exactly what the semester system with hour credits has the
potential to avoid. Certain areas which Davidson presently does not feel are worthy of academic recognition such as music, drama,
art, photography, journalism, and creative writing, unless as a part of the traditional classes, could reward students with lesser credits
for valuable educational experience. Credit for worthy activities could serve to spur students to participate in activities they would otherwise
avoid. It could also give students the extra credit lab courses justly deserve. Ten weeks is too short a time
to allow for adequate reflection on course matter. Davidson students and professors tend to forget that the purpose of college
is not just to prepare one for graduate school. The longer term with classes that do not meet daily does
give the student more time to absorb the material thrown at him and to investigate things of interest related to
his courses. College should be more than four years of speed learning.

I found it quite interesting that Mr. Hunter in his letter to the editor saw the biggest drawback to the
semester system as its causing the professors to work harder. Under the present system, the College is already understaffed and
classes much too large. The semester system would not increase this problem nor would it solve it. The solution is
to hire more professors. Personally, as long as I pay close to five thousand a year for what Davidson has
to offer, I am not very worried about how hard the professors have to work. My only fear about this
change is that with fifteen weeks the professors would try to assign 50 percent more reading. I also have severe
doubts as to whether Davidson's conservative academic hierarchy will ever consider a change. But I believe that the semester system
would be good for Davidson.

Paul Banta ‘77
Davidson College

KA’s host disco: seek help for MD

To the Editor:

This letter is to invite Davidson students and faculty to a benefit disco for muscular dystrophy to be held Saturday
evening, October 1, from 9 pm until 1 am at the KA house. This was quite an enjoyable occasion last
year, and it is hoped that the repeat performance will be even better. A one dollar donation, all of which
will be forwarded to MD, entitles one to unlimited dancing and beer (at least 8 kegs will be provided), and
everyone is encouraged to bring cards, backgammon, etc. Come spend an evening with your friends and help in the fight
against muscular dystrophy. We would also like to thank Ron Scott and ARA Slater, the Peregrine House, King Sirloin, Anchor
Tavern, and Southern Wholesale Distributors for their help in supplying refreshments.

Sincerely,
The KA Fraternity
Davidson College
