The Davidsonian

By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Columnist

Dr. Lawrence Silverberg, a member of the Charlotte Family Practice Clinic and one of several new doctors at the infirmary, is in Charlotte, “primarily because of geography.”

“I’m from Miami and my wife is from New York. We just pulled out the map and picked a spot in the middle, which happened to be here,” he explained, not quite seriously.

Silverberg got his present job by “walking into the Family Clinic and leaving my telephone number.” He has run a neighborhood health center in Charlotte as part of the clinic’s work for the last four months. The neighborhood clinic is “an attempt” at achieving decentralized medical care by having a center in the area to give primary care. Silverberg sees this concept as “taking off in this country.”

Silverberg is an osteopathic doctor, the first, he believes, to be licensed in North Carolina. Osteopaths, he feels, are more behaviorally oriented than M.D.s, emphasizing the whole person as patient and not looking at isolated organ disease, resulting in a more holistic approach. There are no osteopathic schools in North Carolina, emphasizing the difference between medical doctors and osteopathic doctors. “There is an inferiority complex in general on the part of osteopaths,” he conceded, but he feels philosophical differences between the two schools are becoming obscured and that only political differences remain. While it is possible for osteopaths to obtain dual memberships, he is against doing so because, “it takes away from what we are, compromises those who do.”

Prior to this, he worked on a Nevada Indian Reservation, as a public health officer in Greenwich Village, and as chief physician of the Tombs prison in New York City, where 3,000 inmates were crammed into a facility designed for 1,000.

Club Sports

Polo Cats splash big

By KEVIN ROBBINS
Staff Writer

The big news on the Club Sports front is the splashing resurgence of the Water Polo Club, an 11-4 loser in their lifetime first-ever match. Battling the same Appalachian State team that was responsible for the opening loss one week earlier, the Wetcats made the Unhappy Apps look like fish out of water in a convincing 12-5 thrashing.

The Cats pooled their talents and displayed new finesse as the tricky ball-handling of Jonathan Washburn and Mark Tommerdahl and the sensational goalkeeping of Kirk “Blondbeard” Williams opened up a 9-0 halftime lead. The Clubbers easily held on for the win over the frustrated but outmanned Mountaineers.

The Gridiron Club team went 1-1 the last two weeks, losing to Baptist University of America (you heard it right) 14-12, then coming back to destroy Clemson 19-7. Despite the addition of some halftime soul, the Cats could not get their act together in a circus performance with BUA, a first-year University. Bouncing back strongly the next week, they dominated Clemson.

As your Dean of Beer, it is my scholarly opinion that just knowing the one word for beer is not enough. You must also know the reasons why. Because only then will I, Siglinda Steinhüller, be satisfied that you have graduated from Remedial Beer Drinking.

QUESTIONS:

Q: 1. The best water for beer comes from:
a) Big Duck Mountain.
b) Underground from Tijuana.
c) A small store in Macon, Ga.
d) None of the above

A: (d) No matter what you hear about “naturally pure” waters, virtually allBrewers filter and further purify their water. But Schlitz doesn’t stop there. They filter their water and then filter it again. So when they’re through, it’s purer than the purest spring water.

Q: 2. Klages and Firlbeck III are:
a) Composers of famous beer drinking songs like “I Left My Shoes in Heidelberg”
b) Owners of the world’s largest unknown brewery.
c) Serving time in Sonoma, Calif., for impersonating Arnold the Wonder Seal.
d) More expensive barleys.

A: (d) Schlitz blends Klages and Firlbeck III barleys with the standard variety most brewers use because they believe it gives their beer superior flavor.

Q: 3. Hops are notorious for:
a) Their lack of intelligence.
b) Always getting to work late.
c) Losing their keys.
d) Being difficult to keep fresh.

A: (d) The freshest hops make the best beer. That's why Schlitz air-shades and refrigerates their hops. So they're as fresh at brewing time as they are at harvest time.

Q: 4. The best adjunct to beer is:
a) Rice.
b) Corn.
c) Either rice or corn.
d) What's an adjunct?

A: (c) Every American brewer uses rice or corn to lighten the flavor of their beer. This is called an adjunct. But Schlitz knows how to use either grain interchangeably. So they’re never at the mercy of an unfavorable crop. And neither is the taste of their beer.

Q: 5. The biggest misconception about yeast is:
a) Carrying some in your pocket is good luck.
b) It is good for hernias.
c) It was responsible for the fall of the Roman Empire.
d) To ferment beer, all you have to do is drop it in the vat.

A: (d) To make beer taste right consistently, Schlitz believes the yeast has to be evenly distributed during fermentation. That's why Schlitz carefully stirs in their yeast. It’s part of their Balanced Fermentation process. And they’re the only American brewer who does it.

Q: 6. Chill-Lagering is:
a) A popular German country and western singer.
b) A Scandinavian winter sport played without clothes.
c) A new ethnic TV comedy about the owner of an ice cube factory.
d) The right way to age beer.

A: (d) When Schlitz ages beer, they age it cold—very cold—down to 29.5 degrees. It’s called Chill-Lagering. And it’s what makes Schlitz crisp, clean, and bright.

Q: 7. A mini-brewery is:
a) Hidden in a basement somewhere in Greektown.
b) The result of trying to make Broken Toe, Idaho, the beer capital of the world.
c) The right way to pretest beer ingredients.
d) Both (a) and (c).

A: (c) Schlitz has a mini-brewery where they test-brew the quality of the ingredients that go into Schlitz—before they go into Schlitz.

SPECIAL BONUS QUESTION:
Q: True or false, the one word for beer is Chowmein.

A: False. There is no beer called Duffelbrau. Just as there is no beer like Schlitz. If you answered this question true, perhaps you should look into turkey ranching.

CUNNINGHAM WHOLESALE CO.
Charlotte, N.C.