Vol. LXVII, NO. SIX

By STEPHEN GOLD
Staff Writer

Davidson College and the surrounding community can expect a modern face-lift in the near future because of significant advances made
towards development programs discussed in the October 4th meeting of the Board of Trustees. The Board gave its go-ahead for
hiring the architects to plan the new Dining Commons, reports Buildings and Grounds Committee Liaison Grover C. Meetze Jr. Although
no plans are final, the food facility may be built across from the main entrance to Richardson Dorm.

Along with a new eating house, there are plans for other additions to the campus as well: additional student housing
is being considered, possibly behind Patterson Court; a proposed new art building may be constructed across Main Street; a new
field house possibly placed in the area below the soccer fields; and a new wing added to Martin Science Building.
Some plans to renovate the Davidson business district, possibly into a walking mall, are included. “We're trying to plan as
far ahead as we can see,” says Meetze. Because of his study of Davidson population changes, Meetze is “planning to
accommodate 1600 students by 1987,” although he admits there might not be that many.

To finance the “1987 program,” Meetze expects to use part of the $35 million fund that the school hopes to
have raised by then. In a Finance and Management committee progress report, Liaison Robert A. Currie says that, “the town
and college are encouraging (the construction) of an apartment project for 50 families,” which would be government subsidized. If the
federal funds arrive soon, the construction of the lower-income family housing could begin in December. A possible site is the
area between the I-77 access road and the General Time Plant. Currie also reports the possibility of a retirement community
for faculty, alumni, and locals. College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and some local citizens will review the feasibility of
the project, which would be privately supported.

Liaison for Student Life and Health committee Will Terry reports that the group reviewed the plans for the college commons,
which is estimated to cost approximately $1 million. The committee “urged dispatch in raising more money and completing the project,”
says Terry.

In other important Board actions, the Nominating committee asked Chairman of

Dance

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) will review on Monday an unwritten faculty policy that no major
social event will be held on weeknights. The policy came up during the recent SAE-Union controversy over the scheduling of
the Janice dance Thursday. Director of the Student Union C. Shaw Smith originally vetoed the dance because of the policy,
but after a recommendation from the CCRL to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. urging him to make an exception
in the case, Spencer overruled Smith.

Smith has the authority to veto such events because, as Director of the Union, he “is responsible for the scheduling
of campus-wide events, regardless of location,” according to a letter from Spencer to SAE President Jud Bryan. Spencer explained Smith’s
position in the same letter, writing: “Because of the number and variety of such events during the College year, it
is absolutely essential that one agency have the responsibility and authority for scheduling. That is the Union’s function.”

Chairman of the CCRL Will Terry explained, “The controversy of scheduling Janice points up the need for a written policy
regarding the scheduling of major social events on weeknights. The CCRL will attempt to recommend such a policy to the
President.” Terry excused student ignorance of the policy by saying: “There are a lot of good policies which evolve at
Davidson (which) those of us who work here year after year assume everybody knows and scheduling social events on weekdays
is one such example. You could call it oral tradition.” Spencer requested the CCRL to advise him on the matter.the
Board asked Warner Hall to stay on as chairman for one more year. Chairman of Finance Walter Lingle was also
asked to remain on the Board. Both men were to have resigned their positions on October 4, because both are
70 years old, the mandatory retirement age for Trustees. They were given an appropriate amount of time to come to
a decision, says Nominating, Honorary, and Resolutions Committee Liaison Gary Barnes.

DIRECTOR of the Physical Plant designed this scale model of the campus including planned additions. Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036.
October 21, 1977.

Trustees project future plan Davidson face-lift

Grover C. Meetze Jr. has [Gregg Strader]

Senior Davidson Senior Services, a new non-profit agency located in the “Depot” is recruiting student volunteers to perform services for
the elderly of Davidson. Students who are willing to donate some time, talent, gasoline, and energy may contact Brigid O’Connor,
Director, at 892-5111.

Services request aid

The DSS matches older people who need help with volunteers willing to lend a hand. A fee is charged for
these services and returned to the agency. These funds are used to enhance the quality of life for all older
people of the community. The operation of the Senior Center and its many services is the primary purpose of the
DSS. The need for chore service and transportation is pressing for older people who wish to remain in their own
homes as long as possible. This is especially true in our small, rural community with no public transportation. Are you
willing to help?

Social policy review

Smith addressed the social policy, stating in a memo to the Council: “It is my impression that the policy has
been increasingly encroached upon in recent years. The question now is whether the policy is obsolete or obsolescent. Is it
the judgment of the Advisory Council that it should be retained, or that it should be abandoned?”

Smith explained the purpose behind the policy as “a long-standing policy to respect the academic interests of the campus—what the
College officially condones. My concern beyond the academic thing is that if we were to be invaded with a tremendous
amount of social events during the week (I do not expect that to happen) we would have a hard time
finding a place to schedule various events. They do not fit on weekends.”

Social events on weekends are meant “to enhance (students’) lives here so they do not have to leave,” according to
him. Smith said if the faculty is not concerned with the placing of major social events on weekdays “I certainly
have no reason at all (not to hold social events). My impression, without taking a vote, is that the faculty
is in favor of this policy.”

Professor of Psychology John Kelton, Vice-chairman pro-tem of the Faculty Executive Committee, believes the Faculty will support the policy as
it stands because holding major social events on weekdays (especially Thursdays) could pressure faculty members into not scheduling reviews or
papers on Fridays.

According to SAE Social Chairman Bill Barnett, the SAEs did not know of the policy. “The thing we could not
understand and still do not understand is why there is a distinction between what Patterson Court can do on weeknights
versus campus-wide when the parties they have down there are campus-wide. They just do not use campus facilities. Why have
no objections been raised about those parties?”

Terry explained that parties held in fraternity houses cannot be considered campus-wide because of space limitations. Smith said, “The difference
is in what we encourage and what we allow. There is a subtle but important difference, and I think the
students need to make that decision.”

Barnett also raised the issue of discos on Thursday nights. In explanation, Smith defined a “major” social event as one
which involves a lot of time and costs a lot of money.
