February 11, 1977

The Davidsonian

Spencer, WDAV attempt to clear air

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. met this week with the staff and Board of Directors of WDAV to “correct some of the misconceptions about the future of radio broadcasting at Davidson.” The college has already applied to the FCC for permission to increase the station’s power to 18,540 watts. Approval is expected by March 1. Expansion and improvement of the station’s technical equipment will likely be necessary when the wattage is increased. Staffing and programming changes are also being considered.

Some WDAV staff members felt that the administration was neglecting students' input while formulating ideas for WDAV’s future. “We were apprehensive simply because we were hearing several different stories about plans for WDAV,” said Station Manager Sid Barrett. “It is my understanding that at this time there is no set plan of what this 18,000 watt station will be like,” he continued.

Barrett and other representatives from WDAV questioned Spencer about several matters—the college’s immediate and long-term plans for funding the station, the degree of student involvement on the new high-power station, and the type of programming the station would broadcast.

“The capital expenditure according to the figures that Buck (Lawrimore) has given me would involve an initial outlay of $52,000,” said Spencer. Director of Communications Lawrimore commented: “Add a little over $18,000 for improvements in the studio—additional tape recorders, and so forth—and that takes it up to $70,000. Then automation will cost $30-35,000 if we decide to add it. But $52,000—probably even $50,000 is all we need to go from where we are now to high power,” said Lawrimore.

“And of course operating costs figure in,” said Spencer. “They will depend upon what we do with the station. In terms of ‘getting back’ the money, so to speak, we’re not interested just in the number of contributions we might bring in. We’re also interested in providing a service to the whole region which would have an impact for Davidson College,” said Spencer.

“Do you feel that for the full-time operation of the station you will draw as much as you can from the students?” asked Barrett.

“That has been my assumption all along,” Spencer replied.

Operations Manager Bill Burkholder pointed out that WDAV presently programs classical, jazz, folk, rock, and bluegrass music. Barrett emphasized that “with careful training and programming, the students’ taste could provide the alternative that isn’t being played right now in Charlotte. And as long as the students can program their music, within a reasonable degree of creativity, you can count on their enthusiasm,” said Barrett.

“Some difficult decisions have to be made,” said past Station Manager Jack Golden. “What we really need to do is make concrete proposals—one from the students, one from the administration—then practice the good old American principle of give-and-take.”

Spencer reasserted that Lawrimore would serve as his liaison in all future dealings with the board and students regarding WDAV. “I will over-communicate,” promised Lawrimore. “I have kept a low profile with the understanding that we wanted to do that. Part of the problem came with the turnover of staffs at election time. I never stopped and thought: ‘Well, now, we’ve got a new station manager and I need to tell Sid everything that Jack knew.’ I’ll accept responsibility for that communications lapse.”breakdown® “We will keep everybody over-informed to make sure there are no misunderstandings,” said Lawrimore. The station’s Board of Directors agreed to meet at the beginning of spring term to discuss and determine final proposals for high-power WDAV.

Arts and crafts center on creativity
By STEPHANIE COOK
Staff Writer

Tucked away in an alcove above the TV Lounge in the Union is Davidson’s Arts and Crafts Center, providing another dimension for student activity. Arts and Crafts Committee Chairman John Trout discussed some of the goals of the center. “We hope to provide a varied, non-academic release-type program for students...to give them something to do besides studying. ...Perhaps the Arts and Crafts Committee can bring out some of the creativity in students that school tends to stifle.”

At present, the center’s focus is on pottery and sculpture. There are two kickwheels and a kiln, purchased last year with committee funds. Tim Bonsack conducts informal pottery lessons from 10 to 12 Monday nights, although the center is always available for student use (the key is at the Union desk). In the area of sculpture, John Evans has been helping students acquire the basic skills, and helps out with any problems they may have later on.

The Arts and Crafts Committee under the Co-Curricular Council of the Union Board is allocated an annual budget which pays for innovations as well as for maintaining supplies. “I would like to see the committee expand into a new area each year,” Trout said. This year, the addition to the program will be copper enameling, under the supervision of John Highsmith. Copper enameling is done by sifting ground glass (enamel) onto a copper piece and then firing it in the kiln, which fuses the enamel. This feature will begin in the spring.

In addition, Captain Kotula of the Davidson ROTC Department has expressed an interest in teaching Raku a couple of weekends in the spring. Raku is an ancient Japanese technique of pottery based on a philosophy of peace and happiness. It is a spectacular event, involving the firing of the pieces outdoors. Pots are made in the normal manner and put in kilns. These kilns can be made of oil drums, fire bricks, and a gas burner. However, instead of letting the pot cool in the normal eight-to-ten hour process, Raku allows for it to be cooled quickly (in five or ten minutes) by putting it in water, leaves, or sawdust.

The $700 budget for this year will provide for enough chemicals to be bought to make homemade glazes, and will hopefully also cover the charge of materials with which to make a Raku kiln. Student involvement is the key. Money does not hamper the program as much as finding students who have time to teach and work with other students. The center was well used last year, according to Trout, and hopefully, the new ideas for the future will help stimulate student interest as well as awareness of the program.

Electronic Service and Sales
173 W. Main Street
663-4613
MOORESVILLE

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030