October 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

THE DRAMA Department, which is housed in Eu Hall, is one of the recipients of the recent Mellon Grant. [Gregg
Strader]

Mellon grant funds faculty programs

By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

The Humanities Program, the Center for Special Studies, the Drama and Speech Department, the Physics Department, and the Economics Department
have benefited from a $200,000 grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. Davidson received this money in July 1976. According
to the official request, the money is being used for “the enrichment of the academic program through incentives to faculty
renewal and stimuli to the intellectual vitality of the campus community.”

Dean of the Center for Special Studies, Dr. Robert L. Avinger, said that the Center is using the Mellon Grant
to provide “faculty department and training to better be able to teach and guide research.” This summer, with money from
the grant, the Center sponsored a workshop on American Studies for faculty members. This workshop included visiting lecturers and a
final week spent at Emory University in Atlanta studying American urbanization.

The Drama and Speech Department is using the Mellon Grant to implement a three-year pilot program through the Center for
Special Studies in Dramatic Literature and Theatre. Currently, six students are involved in the program. Associate Professor of Drama and
Speech, Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., hopes that the program “will grow enough to justify being continued.” Barber went on
to add that such a program would not be possible if it were not for the grant.

The Physics Department has used money from the grant to study departmental curriculum and to conduct experiments in cryogenics (temperature
research). Vice President of Academic Affairs, C. Price Zimmerman, feels that the grant money has added significantly to the intellectual
life of the college. He specifically cited the use of outside examiners, such as in the Economics Department. These examiners
analyzed departmental procedures. Zimmerman said that the examiners were of “joint benefit to the students and faculty” and served for
the faculty as a “plumb line to judge its own efforts.”

Future plans for the grant money include an interdisciplinary seminar to be held August 6 to August 31, 1978, offered
by the Philosophy Department on science, technology, and human values.

Davidsonian polls faculty on semesters versus terms

By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

The Davidsonian recently conducted an informal survey to determine faculty opinion on the matter of the academic calendar. The question
put to the faculty was: Do you prefer the semester system or the present system for the calendar year?

Professors favoring semester system: 2
Professors leaning toward semesters: 2
Professors favoring semesters but don’t feel it’s worth the change: 4
Professors favoring present system: 4
Professors leaning toward present system: 1
Professors with their own proposals: 5
Professors not familiar enough with present system to comment: 3
Professors undecided or with mixed feelings: 17
Professors with no comment: 1
Professors unavailable for comment: 30

Vice President for Academic Affairs, Price Zimmerman, refused to indicate a preference for one system over the other and said
that his office was prepared to administer either system. He did, however, discuss some of the advantages inherent in each
system.

The semester system is easier for everyone to administrate, according to Zimmerman, because there are only two registration periods, so
there is one-third less paperwork for everyone—students, faculty, and administration. He also pointed out that the semester system works to
the advantage of faculty for sabbaticals because they would get a longer period of time and also because more colleges
and universities are presently on the semester system. Zimmerman also felt that the semester system gave students more time to
absorb material than is presently available under the ten-week term system.

He was quick, however, to point out advantages in the present system. It is possible to offer a wider variety
of courses under this system. Departments can offer more specific courses and students realize that if they don’tGet a course
fall term; there is still a chance to get it later in the calendar year. Zimmerman pointed out that one
big advantage of the present system was the fact that it was already established. The turnover process would be complicated
as well as costly. It must be emphasized that there are two types of semester systems: the late semester, which
begins in late September and ends in mid-January, and the early semester, which begins around mid-August and ends before Christmas.
Davidson had the late semester system in effect in 1967 before the present calendar was adopted. The main complaint that
faculty seem to have about the old system was the split fall term; students left for Christmas and still had
to face exams shortly after their return in January. When the present calendar was adopted, it was hoped that this
split term would be eliminated. Complications with implementing the three-term calendar in the early years forced the beginning of winter
term to be in early December, which again caused a split term. Although several faculty members expressed dismay over this
dilemma, Zimmerman does not see it as a problem even though it does have some disadvantages.

Zimmerman is not impressed with the early semester plan because he thinks it is wrong to try to force too
many things into the term, including exams, in the mad rush to finish before Christmas. “All students need time to
benefit from the mere situation of being here,” explained Zimmerman. “There should be time for having some fun. A semester
system when all is crowded for a last push before Christmas makes hectic a season of the year that should
be enjoyable.”

As the figures above indicate, the faculty was split in its opinion as to which system, if either, is best.
Almost all faculty members were quick to point out that there was no perfect system, and many professed to see
advantages with both systems and refused to choose. Many of the faculty members in favor of switching claimed that the
major drawback to the present system is a lack of “percolation time” for students to assimilate and absorb material. These
individuals feel that students would gain more time to better understand their material because, under the semester system, there usually
is a day between class sessions. Opponents of the change reject this idea and insist that most students will still
procrastinate and do their outside work the night before it’s due.

There was almost unanimous opposition to resuming Saturday classes, which had been present under the old pre-1967 semester system here.
Several faculty members rejected both our present system and a semester system. These professors advocate their own systems, which range
from a conventional 4-1-4 calendar arrangement to a more complicated system designed to circumvent the divided winter term through a
concentrated three-week, one-unit course followed by eight weeks of study with two course credits.

Proposed Academic Calendar 1980-81

The following calendar for the academic year 1980-81 is currently being considered by the Executive Committee of the Faculty. Please
send written comments to the committee by November 1, 1977.

Fall Term
Orientation Begins: Sat., 9/6
Classes begin 8 am: Wed., 9/10
Class Day: Sat., 9/13
Classes end 5 pm: Mon., 10/17
Classes end 5 pm: Mon., 11/17
Reading Day: Tues., 11/18
Exams begin 9 am: Nov. 19
Exams End 5 pm: Sat., 11/22

Winter Term
Classes begin 8 am: Mon., 12/1
X-mas holidays, 5 pm: 12/19
Recess 16 days
X-mas holidays end 8 am: 1/5
Classes end 5 pm: Fri., 2/20
Reading Day: Sat., 2/21
Exams begin 9 am: Mon., 2/23
Exams end 5 pm: Thurs., 2/26
Recess 10 days

Spring Term
Classes begin 8 am: Mon., 3/9
Class Day: Sat., 3/14
Classes end 5 pm: Thurs., 5/14
Reading Day: Fri., 5/15
Exams begin 9 am: Sat., 5/16
Exams end 5 pm: Wed., 5/20
Commencement: Sun., 5/24

THE SHOP
1730 Main Street
STEAKS, CHOPS, SEAFOOD
PIZZA, LASAGNE, RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI, CHICKEN CACCIATORE, PARMIGIANA
