FOCUS Patterson Court Council reexamines self-selection
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

The Patterson Court Council met Tuesday to discuss the outcome of self-selection and determine the policy for students on two
or more eating club waiting lists. Two hundred and twenty-one freshmen signed up at the nine clubs, 146 men and
75 women. Ninety-one could not get into a house and signed various waiting lists.

Though the general sentiment of the Council was that the houses will become overcrowded if too many off the waiting
lists are taken in, a few of the house officers indicated that they felt a responsibility to draw heavily off
the lists. “There are a lot of people out there who really want a place to eat,” said one.

The KA’s Vance Christopher indicated that his house would vote Thursday on whether to increase membership in their house to
90 and accept practically all those on the waiting list. Emanon officer Gil Cuthbertson said his house would probably take
in a “lot of people” who are waiting, and increase membership to 85. “With the money generated by this number,
we’ll be able to run a better social program,” he said.

PAX House will have fewer members than this year, down from about 90 to 75. “We learned from experience that
it is difficult to accommodate 90 people,” said their spokesman. Treasurer Steve Smith of PIKA said that his house would
accept “five minimum and fifteen maximum off the waiting list for a total of approximately 72. I am reluctant to
see the houses get bigger than they are now. Some sort of expansion is necessary to eliminate the crowding,” he
said.

Kathryn Bridges, who was elected President of PCC for next year, said that F&M would not go over 78. “It’s
too difficult to get to know people when the house is larger than that.” Outgoing ETC officers Andy McElwee and
Mark Rabil said that their house would probably have 68 to 70 next year, about the same as present. “We
have too many now—64 is what we'd like to have. We just don’t like to take anymore than that.” M.F.
Leopold, president of ATO, said that the house would probably have 68 to 70 next year, about the same as
present. “We have too many now—64 is what we'd like to have. We just don’t like to take anymore than
that.”

New doctors anticipated
By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

The Davidson Infirmary looks to July ’78 for a permanent student health care program. The college anticipates the arrival of
two new full-time Davidson doctors. Bill Williams and Ron Hunt will replace the doctors from the Huntersville clinic whose contract
ends this May. After the Huntersville doctors, who have served Davidson for three years, requested a five-year contract of $25,000
a year, the administration decided to look for replacements. As Dean Terry states, “Students and administration have not been happy
with the health care we have and are looking for better health care in ’77 and even better in ’78.”

He does not wish to hire the Huntersville doctors for '77 because, as he states, “I don’t see getting bad
service for a higher price.” He added, “This has been the most frustrating thing I’ve ever had to deal with.”

The ’78 plan calls for the new doctors to reside in Davidson and serve the community as well as the
college. Terry looks forward to an increasingly better relationship between doctor and student due to the proximity of the doctors.
He also is encouraged by the potential upgrading in the Davidson community health care.

Both new doctors are Davidson graduates. Bill Williams ’69, a Morehead scholar to UNC, is an internist and will have
his boards in pediatrics. Ron Hunt ’68 has not yet committed himself. But Dean Terry says, “We hope to hear
any time.” Williams and Hunt, however, are expected to bring significant improvements to the health care services provided to students.

[see PATCHWORK, page 8]

PIRG surges into national action
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

“The student activism of the 1960’s was beneficial, but it had no...Focus, no end goal. The energy wasn’t channeled properly,”
said senior John Hedrick, chairperson of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (PIRG). Hedrick believes that by working through
PIRG, an organization with chapters on campuses across the nation and in several foreign countries, “We have institutionalized the student
movement, coordinated it, and given it specific goals.”

NC PIRG recently hosted the PIRG National Conference at Duke University, and Hedrick has returned with ambitious plans for the
state and Davidson PIRG’s. He is also optimistic that the national movement is moving into a position of considerable influence.

“At the conference, I witnessed a change in attitude among the state leaders. The turnover of administrations in Washington has
made us hopeful that more money from government grants will be available for research and development. We voted to move
the National Clearinghouse (PIRG’s executive branch) from its present location in Iowa to Washington, D.C., and added fund-raising and advocacy
functions to the Clearinghouse’s duties. Its budget was tripled, funds to be provided by the member PIRG’s.”

Hedrick outlined several of the projects of the North Carolina and Davidson PIRG’s. “Presidential Energy Advisor James Schlesinger has requested
citizens’ ideas to aid him in formulating the national energy policy. NC PIRG will respond with its suggestions. We have
also applied for grants from the Federal Energy Administration and the N.C. Humanities Council to do a series of public
forums on energy. Last year, Davidson students participated in NC PIRG’s filing of a legal suit against the Department of
Labor. The Department had failed to issue standards regarding cotton dust levels in textile mills.” Cotton dust is a cause
of the so-called “brown lung,” a disease which afflicts a number of North Carolinians. “Recently, the Department did establish standards,
but we believe they are too low and may be a delaying tactic to dodge the suit. NC PIRG plans
to continue pressing for higher standards.

“Our organization will also be taking an active role in urging passage of Returnables legislation (banning all non-returnable containers) in
cooperation with the Citizens for Returnable Beverage Containers. We are hoping to add PIRG’s at UNCC and N.C. State, diversifying
the state movement and increasing its resources,” said Hedrick. “Here at Davidson, Kathy McLendon will soon finish our off-campus housing
guide, to be available for students. When the guide is completed, we'll decide whether to take further action in the
area of landlord-tenant relations. Sabra Faires, chairperson at Davidson, is conducting our pilot cash-discounting project in Concord. [see PIRG, page
6]

Applications soar
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

Stimulated by a 35 percent increase in the number of women’s applications, requests for admission to Davidson reached an all-time
high this year, according to Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White. One thousand, five hundred and twelve
high school seniors are seeking admission to the Class of 1981. Of these, 1003 are men and 509 are women.
“The increase is largely due to the women’s applications, up from 377 last year,” said White. Twenty-five more men applied
this year than in 1976. “This is not our largest number of men’s applications, but it is a good, strong
group,” he commented.

White indicated that admission would be more competitive this year than in recent times because next year’s freshman class will
be the smallest at Davidson in three years. “We hope to enroll about 233 men and 103 women for a
total of 336.” He attributed the increase in applications to several factors: “our staff did some additional traveling this fall.
The students’ recruiting efforts were more organized this year than ever before. Also, the Stuart Scholarship Program stimulated a number
to apply.”

A partial list of those who have been accepted is posted outside the Admissions Office. This list includes early decision
accepted, a few football and basketball players, the Stuart Scholarship semifinalists, and the strongest candidates who applied under the regular
admission plan. The remainder of the notifications will be sent out on April 1.
