October 28, 1977 - The Davidsonian

Study shows pot's effect on athlete

Editor's Note: The National Collegiate Athletic Association published in its October 15th issue an article entitled, “The Athlete and Marijuana” written by Dr. Hardin B. Jones, University of California at Berkeley, who also is a member of the NCAA Drug Education Committee. The Davidsonian feels this article presents some new and interesting perspectives on the use of marijuana.

The most extensive study of the lingering effect of the hemp drugs was conducted at the request of the Egyptian government by Soueif. Over a 25-year period, Soueif observed 850 hemp-drug users and matched them against controls. Both the users and the controls were given standard tests of mental function. The tests showed that “those with a higher level of education—and/or intelligence—show the largest amount of deterioration from marijuana use.”

Effects on driving

Studies of the influence of marijuana on driving have shown that marijuana impairs judgment and reduces the driver’s ability to gauge time, distance, speed, and road conditions. The severely altered behavior of chronic marijuana users suggests that driving performance would be impaired even between uses; users are never completely free from the burden of the active material. From what we know of the effects of marijuana on the user’s perception of time, distance, speed, thinking, and short-term memory, it is likely that athletic performance also is affected, especially during the marijuana high.

Recognizing marijuana users in the early stages of use presents a problem. Unlike users of alcohol, marijuana users cannot be recognized by signs such as a staggering gait, slurred speech, or characteristic odor on the breath. The means of detecting marijuana users are more complex. The presence of cannabinoid residues in urine indicates marijuana use within the past twenty-four hours. The level of THC in the blood, fat, or feces can indicate the intake level over a period of many months. Such chemical tests are now possible, but expensive. Rapid, inexpensive methods of marijuana detection probably will be developed.

Marijuana vs. alcohol

People who argue for the legalization of marijuana compare it to alcohol; but the two drugs are not similar at all. Alcohol is a water-soluble substance and therefore is metabolized to provide cell energy. It leaves the body rapidly and completely, with no residue. The adverse effects of alcohol are brought about by large doses. Marijuana is a complex mixture of many cannabinoids, each of which may have different effects on the body. THC, the principal active ingredient in marijuana, is highly soluble in fat and insoluble in water. THC remains in the fatty structures of the cells for long periods and, with repeated use, accumulates there. Because THC is removed slowly from the body, even small doses may have adverse effects, and many months may be required to recover. Thus, the marijuana user is under the influence of the drug even between highs. Many adverse effects correlate with the duration of use rather than with the size of the dose, and there may be no truly safe range of exposure.

It takes decades for irreversible brain changes to appear in the heavy drinker. In the marijuana smoker, irreversible brain changes may appear within three years. Comparing alcohol with cannabis, Paton, a professor of pharmacology at Oxford University, said: “The price (in health) for (marijuana) overuse is paid in adolescence or in early life; the price for alcohol overuse is paid in later life.”

As the use of sensual drugs has increased over the past few years, the consumption of alcohol also has increased among youth. There are several reasons for this increase. Drug users like the compounding effects of alcohol and other drugs. Marijuana and barbiturates condition the mind so as to diminish the protective reflex of vomiting to eliminate an overdose of alcohol from the system.are thus able to increase their consumption of alcohol. Alcoholism is now considered the fourth major problem in the United States. Alcoholism has increased to such an extent among young people that Alcoholics Anonymous now sponsors special groups specifically geared to help young alcoholics. With the increasing use of marijuana, another major health problem has been added to the list.

Recovery from marijuana use
The effects of marijuana are felt only gradually and users cannot recognize the changes in themselves. Marijuana seems to affect their ability to evaluate themselves accurately. Marijuana users may be lethargic, slow-witted, prone to error, unable to make practical plans for the future, careless about their appearance, and unable to remember important details or recall events in the immediate past, yet they may not recognize any of these changes. Most users can be convinced of the adverse effects of marijuana if they can be persuaded to stop using it long enough to see how much they recover after a period of abstinence. I have suggested to more than two thousand marijuana users over the years that they stop using marijuana for several weeks "just as an experiment". The results have been striking: many have reported that they could think more clearly; some described the feeling of recovery as a "lifting of the fog". Even those who did not seem affected by marijuana reported that they recovered their sensory perception and thought processes after several months of abstinence.

The user’s memory is the first thought process to improve; then his ability to form thoughts becomes more vigorous; finally, after several months of abstinence, he begins to notice he feels more alive. The brain has a tremendous capacity for recovery. In a previous installment of this article, we discussed recent evidence that brain cells were destroyed by chronic marijuana use. Many of marijuana’s adverse effects are not caused by the destruction of brain cells and are therefore reversible. Because the brain cells and synaptic connections may be damaged and because the accumulated cannabinoids are eliminated slowly from the body, recovery may be slow.

Teaching dangers of marijuana use
Many government officials, educators, and scientists have chosen to cope with the marijuana problem by making light of it or by condoning the use of the drug. They dwell on the legal aspects and minimize the health hazards. The result has been that the public has not been informed about findings that could end the appeal of marijuana. Americans now are consuming far greater quantities and stronger preparations of cannabis drugs than they were a few years ago. It has been disheartening to see so many thousands of young people start using marijuana under the assumption that it is a harmless drug.

Young people care about their brains and bodies. I have found in my teaching on drug abuse that an effective approach to educating people on the dangers of drug use is to explain to them the functions of the brain. The subject is fascinating and gets immediate attention. Then I explain the effects of the psychoactive drugs on mood and thought formation. With an understanding of how the brain works, my students have been able to replace the idea that drugs expand the mind with a more profound appreciation of the complexity of the human mind and body.

Marijuana books
My wife and I saw the necessity for a book explaining to the layman how the brain works and is affected by sensual drugs. As a result, we wrote Sensual Drugs: Deprivation and Rehabilitation of the Mind (Cambridge University Press, 1977). We present an approach to getting young people off drugs that has proven effective for individuals struggling to end their addiction by themselves or through treatment in rehabilitation centers. We discuss marijuana extensively in a separate chapter.