Opinion by Grover Meetze

Solar energy provides safest power

By ROGER BROWN
Staff Writer

In general, the higher a nation’s standard of living, the higher its per capita energy consumption. This correlation suggests that much of what we consume depends on energy—either for synthesis, manufacture, or transportation. Similarly, increases in productivity have been found to correspond very closely with the quantity of energy expended. While business praises its entrepreneurship and labor points to quality workmanship as causes of productivity increases, a more important factor is probably technological advances which require larger energy expenditures.

The implications of an energy crisis grow more severe as we discover how intricately industrialization is tied with energy consumption. If we continue to use the quantities of oil we used in 1976, and if all that oil is produced domestically, we will exhaust our estimated oil reserves within 27 years. If consumption grows at about 5 percent each year, as it has over the last 40 years, reserves will be exhausted within 18 years. We will not run out of oil in 18 years. We will be forced to either cut back consumption or pay what by today’s standards are outrageous prices.

Natural gas reserves are smaller than petroleum. As last winter’s natural gas shortage illustrates, we must either pay higher costs or do without natural gas. The Federal Power Commission estimates supply to be even shorter this winter.

Our primary energy options have both large potential and technological know-how to utilize that potential. Using methane trapped from sewage decay for cooking sounds like a worthy and “natural” idea, but only if you are planning to cook once a year. The potential of waste decay is just not great enough. To fuse hydrogen into helium (like the sun) does represent an enormous potential, but technology is not just at an infant level; in the sense that fusion reactors now use more energy than they produce, technology could be called fetal.

Coal, nuclear power, and solar energy are the options whose costs are bordering competitive, whose potentials are significant, and whose technology makes them operable. Conservation is always a legitimate alternative to higher costs and shortages.

Coal is more than ten times more plentiful than oil in the United States. Our use of coal has been restricted by environmental standards which effectively increase the cost of coal. As we become more desperate for a cheap energy source, environmental concerns may carry less weight. Even though our coal reserves are comparatively large, they will not serve for more than 50 years if coal becomes our prime fuel and if consumption continues to grow.

Solar energy and nuclear energy both will require long research and implementation periods, so we must make a decision now about the kind of energy future we wish to build. Given our limited funds for research, even a difference in emphasis will be significant. To make decisions about the kind of research we fund, an understanding of both alternatives is important.

Nuclear energy uses the heat energy released in the splitting of certain atomic nuclei to generate electricity. Two major types of nuclear power plants are in operation today: the light water reactor and the breeder reactor. The light water reactor uses uranium-235 as its active element. The supply of uranium-235 is severely limited; its energy potential is just slightly greater than the potential of petroleum. As a long-range energy alternative, light water reactors fail categorically. They are expensive to build, and the fuel they use is limited. Within the last two years, the cost of U-235 has risen over 800 percent.

The McGuire Nuclear Power Station is located within five miles of Davidson. Duke Power expects the plant to begin operations by 1979. The McGuire plant is located on Lake Norman as is the Marshall Coal Fired Plant. The Marshall plant has...twice the capacity of McGuire, yet is costing five times as much to build. A recent study at MIT indicated plant costs are rising 15 percent each year which, added to the tremendous fuel costs and limited fuel supply, make light water reactors an absurd investment. No long-term plan for waste disposal has been developed. Duke Power plans to store the wastes created at McGuire on the site until a plan is developed. Among the many waste products of any light water plant like McGuire is plutonium, a highly toxic radioactive substance. Five grams of plutonium are estimated to contain the equivalent of 20,000 lethal doses. A plant the size of McGuire will produce about 450 pounds of plutonium annually and store it adjacent to Lake Norman. Spills have occurred at other plants although no serious injuries resulted; but a leakage of plutonium into Lake Norman could contaminate the area and devastate almost every level of life. With a half-life of over 24,000 years, plutonium is not a temporary danger nor could it be localized if a serious spill occurred. As an example, in the early testing days, Great Britain and the United States dumped quantities of nuclear wastes into the deepest part of the ocean only to find traces of the substances at the surface within hours.

Breeder reactors use a more intense reaction to utilize uranium-238 as a fuel by converting it first to plutonium. Since uranium-238 is very abundant, the energy potential of breeders is vast—100 times that of light water reactors. But the advantages end there. Breeders cost even more than light water reactors. The intense reaction increases the likelihood of meltdown or leakage and increases the costs of maintenance. Rather than merely producing plutonium as a waste product, breeders use plutonium as a fuel which multiplies the potential danger of an accident. Congress is considering the commercialization of the nation’s first breeder reactor, the Clinch River Breeder in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Such policy decisions will determine just how we invest our research funds. Already, over $6,000,000,000 have been invested directly in nuclear research. Adding reprocessing and other indirect subsidies, that figure becomes even greater. A powerful lobbying effort is being exerted in favor of the project by workers in the nuclear energy field. They see the Clinch River Project as a key to the direction of our nation’s energy future. The alternative to commercialization is deferral. Experimentation could be continued, but deferral would allow us the freedom to invest more of our efforts into solar research.

Solar energy is a broad title for any of the various methods of using the sun’s energy. Unlike any of the fuels previously discussed, the sun’s energy is practically unlimited. Once systems are designed to utilize solar energy, fuel costs are zero. Unlike mineral resources, solar energy is diffuse and not restricted to a mine or a well. Principally, our use of solar energy would be through space heating and cooling and hot water heating until technology in other areas such as solar cells and windmills develops. Space heating technology is ready now. Over 20 percent of all our energy use is for heating so within the decade significant progress could be made towards solar utilization. Environmentally, solar energy would be cleaner than any of the fuels we currently use and would impose no risks comparable to those of nuclear energy. At present, solar heating is just becoming competitive with traditional fuels. Had solar energy been given 6 billion dollars in research subsidization, the competitive threshold would have been passed long ago. A program of coal utilization and solar space heating in the immediate term, coupled with conservation, then evolving into solar power generating facilities could provide us a clean, safe, and plentiful energy source.

We use too much paper at this college. We use an entire sheet of legal pad paper to write notes to a roommate. We use too much paper in rewriting papers. The administration wastes paper with every memo. The number of flyers sent out is outrageous. Just think about the amount of paper we could save if...