Jents are mostly required to write, and our discussions generally revolved around why it seemed to work and did not
work. Ultimately, for most students, the immense challenge is to learn how to labor over a sentence. Professor of English
Anthony S. concurred, "We really cannot teach how to write. We can induce a creative environment, making it more possible
to grow."

Students interested in writing feel that with three courses in ten weeks, creativity must be compromised. Daniels concluded, "Creative writing
is a valuable thing here for students to really let their creativity run wild." Peeples added, "These courses value the
time to rewrite. It is a shock for people to write in an environment that creates an opportunity to pressure
them."

LAST SPRING, the Drama Department presented "The Madwoman of Chaillot." When asked why he presented so many comedies, he commented:

Managing Editor: The Drama Department is presenting Shakespeare's "As You Like It" as the Fall major production. The play opens
October 20, will run through the 22nd, and will be presented as a matinee on October 27. Professor of Drama
Rupert T. Barber Jr. is directing the play, while Professor of Drama Joseph Gardner is designing the set.

In the cast of 23, Jake Darby will play the part of Rosalind, and Chuck Still will be Orlando. Paul
Schleiffer has been cast as Touchstone, and Andrea Murphy as Celia. Brad Christy will play Jacques. "The set will be
a fairly simple setting like the Elizabethan theatres were, although we are not doing the set as an Elizabethan theatre,"
Barber said. The costumes will be "Shakespearean."

The drama program allows students to study aspects of theatre while meeting the requirements of their majors. "We have long
needed a way to place the study of theatre and drama within our liberal arts framework," said Professor of English
Anthony Abbott, a member of the writer's faculty. Dramatic literature has been overshadowed by the English Department's emphasis on fiction
and poetry, he claims, and "because this is a small, liberal arts college, a drama major is inappropriate."

Abbott and Dean of the Center for Special Studies, Robert L. Avinger, both stressed that the new program is not
a stepping stone toward the establishment of a drama major at Davidson. Barber concurred, adding that the program, because of
its interdisciplinary nature, functions more effectively within the Center for Special Studies than it would as a more structured major
department. Program participants will benefit from a broad selection of courses presented in a flexible format. The Center will offer
special seminars, and the Drama Department has used a portion of the program's funds to create a new two-term course
in theatre history. In addition, students can study various aspects of play production independently or in labs. Drama-related courses from
the various language departments will be offered as electives, with the writing of a senior thesis concluding the program.

The staff members' enthusiasm for the Dramatic Literature and Theatre program is shared by the student participants. Five seniors and
one junior are currently enrolled, making it one of the larger programs offered by the Center. Brad Christie, a junior,
is especially pleased that he can pursue as an academic field his interest in writing plays. Ellen Schlaefer's program will
emphasize dramatic literature, but she will also experiment with play directing. Paul Schleiffer wants to touch on...as many facets of
the theatre production as possible, though he, too, is interested in drama as literature. All three said they were considering
postgraduate training in drama and theatre.

What does the future hold for Davidson's newest program? "It’s set up on a three-year pilot basis," Avinger said. "The
program's continuation will depend on sufficient funding."

Students are involved in the production in many more ways than acting, running everything from lights to makeup. "We believe
in the productions being as much student-oriented as possible," said Barber. "The basic crew work is done by students working
backstage in every facet."

Gardner and Barber split these students into different committees headed by upperclassmen experienced in that area. Page Miller will be
heading the lighting committee, Randy Sherrill will be responsible for sound, and Paul Schlieffer is directing the makeup. "The chairmen
of these committees meet every Monday afternoon with Mr. Gardner and me," he said, to straighten out any problems and
coordinate all the committees’ activities.

Barber feels that working backstage gives students a feel for drama they could not get otherwise, and admits "most of
the people we work with are not going to consider and should not consider working with theatre."

Students have complained the Drama Department has not produced any tragedies. Barber explained: "I place serious plays differently than tragedy.
We have done serious plays. The student actor can handle the audience better in a less than tragic play. And
the student learns as much or more doing comedy because of the control he must have over the audience."

Barber also feels the parts in tragedies are not as demanding on the actor as those in comedies. "I do
not think in terms of tragedy versus comedy," he said, "but what will stretch the actor."

Davidson presents only two major productions a year, but Barber hopes to produce three as soon as possible. "Ideally we
would be doing three major productions a year. We have found we simply do not have space for three and
the student productions which Mr. Gardner and I feel are important. As soon as we feel space is feasible we
will be moving back to three major productions yearly," he said.

The student productions, or workshops, are produced during winter terms, with students responsible for all parts of production including direction.
Barber expects as many as eight workshops this winter, severely limiting practice space both in Hodson and across campus.

Barber is very satisfied with the number of students who participate in the Drama program at Davidson. Last year, 18
percent of the student body participated in some facet of drama, while the national average is only two percent. He
is also pleased with the women's rise in interest, and says he is getting about the same number of women
as men at tryouts, making competition for female roles much tougher than in previous years.

Barber faces a problem with the increased women’s interest in the drama program because most plays have many more male
roles than female.
