COLLEGE CUE SQUAD
December 2, 1977

But more importantly, they hide them. A natural consequence is feeling that they are sick because obviously everyone else is
happy, normal. They are not sick because they suffer anxiety. Everyone does to some degree. They are not sick because
they seek outside help to relieve the anxiety. Instead, they are looking at themselves realistically and taking active action toward
improving their state of mind.

When “help” is not so helpful. Centering-Venturing type programs, private counseling can seem to many as too simplistic, giving solace
which wears off easily. Others manage to escape the formulas and value such services highly. What kind of help a
person seeks, (even the listening ears of a friend) is not important. What is important is an acceptance of anxiety
caused by stress as natural in these times. It is not sick, and neither are you.

Private counseling proves better for some
By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

Doctors Barbara Ballard and John Wheeler have joined the Davidson staff this fall as psychological counselors, replacing Doctors Dockery, Hall,
and Workman. A husband-wife team who have a private practice in Charlotte, they are available for student counseling from 10
to 6, Tuesday through Friday. Dr. Ballard is at Davidson on Tuesdays and Thursdays. She emphasizes the availability of the
counselors for students who have problems with depression or academic decisions; for those students with social problems, whether in relations
with family, roommates, boyfriends, or girlfriends; and for students who are under excessive stress, anxiety, or confusion.

An essential part of her work with students lies in relaxation training. Similar in purpose to meditation, it allows physical
relaxation and attempts to discipline the mind on one thing. In this way, the student can hopefully recognize and come
to grips with his or her problem.

Although both counselors agreed that at times psychological testing is a useful tool, they rarely use tests with students. Dr.
Wheeler finds Davidson students sufficiently articulate and of a certain level of psychological awareness that such tests are of little
use. Also, most of the counseling is for a short time only, with student use of the service peaking at
the end of terms and other periods of stress.

Dr. Wheeler, who is available Wednesdays and Fridays, stresses the importance of confidentiality between counselor and student, which is not
always possible with friends or the people one associates with daily. He also points to the advantage of having one
male and one female counselor for those who would feel more comfortable talking with a man or a woman.

Although Dr. Wheeler does not feel that Davidson has a higher number of students needing psychological assistance than other schools,
he sees academic communities in general as capable of creating problems when competition is solely directed against fellow students or
for grades. Also, Wheeler insists that he does not attempt to persuade a person with academic doubts to stay in
school or leave school, but that he wants to help the student explore the alternatives to help him arrive at
the decision most personally beneficial. As Dr. Wheeler said, “We are here to be of assistance, and hope that the
students feel free to use us.”

They seek someone to hand them all the answers, but I didn’t seem to be getting anywhere. Yet all of
the students who spoke about their experiences agreed you get what you put into the program. They were also apologetic
if they had not given the program more time and thought. Bradenhead commented, “The strength of the program is with
the individual.”

A major problem for each individual is setting aside the time for the workshop. Although Ernie Church said that the
workshop did not take a great deal of time, others commented: “The program is very time-consuming,” “a lot of outside
work,” “much preparation necessary for each meeting,” “If you did all of the work, you’d be busier in it than
any other course at Davidson.” Chris Allen proposed that the Life/Work Planning idea might be better in a longer and
more concentrated format.amount of time. “We really moved fast in the meetings, spending ten minutes on something that could have
lasted for hours.” Another student found the meetings too concentrated. Cathy Chester found that the meetings became competitive within the
discussion groups. “Everyone was turned so inward. I wanted us to help each other.” Junior Debbie Elliot found that more
time in the term was needed, suggesting perhaps that the meetings begin earlier in the term. The program, said Ernie
Church, “makes people realize their own abilities. It builds confidence and it gives direction.” Another student agreed: “It makes you
feel unashamed, it makes you feel positive about what you want—it's self-discovery.” Anne Abernathy concluded: “We get too wrapped up
at Davidson. We need to venture more.”

Life/Work Planning program analyzes and clarifies goals
By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

For the Davidson student who has not yet defined his objectives or goals for any post-graduate experience, indecision must surely
be accompanied with uneasiness as the day of reckoning fast approaches. And for those clad in academic garb, this uneasiness
must turn to horror and fear after the ecstasy of graduation has faded. The question is of central importance: How
can the graduate translate his experiences at school to an interesting job or even lifetime career?

“Life/Work Planning evolved from a need of students who were having difficulty with what they wanted to do as they
began to think about Experiential Programming and senior placement,” said Director of Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning Ken Wood. “In
the Centering-Venturing program it becomes both an individual and group process where people can analyze their past experiences, identify specific
abilities, values, and interests, and rank them according to the greatest degree of personal preference.” Wood continued: “By working from
past experiences, each person can now question himself as to ‘What do I need to do now to get me
where I want to go?’ which is not necessarily a lifetime career decision.”

The next step in the Centering-Venturing program is to put the people in touch with those people, now working, who
have incorporated similar interests, abilities, and needs into a career and life work. “The focus at this point is upon
enthusiasm of those who often use their imaginations to create a career that may be a combination of interests and
to share this enthusiasm with those people in the program.”

Wood does utilize testing to provide “useful clues” in comparing one’s score to those of people who are successful in
the particular field of interest. Wood also mentioned that the testing was to some extent expected by those who participated
in the program but he strongly emphasized a major danger in analyzing these test results: “The testing does not determine
a person’s direction or vocation. When used properly it can be helpful as a reference point for self-evaluation but is
not by any means determinative.”

The Myers-Briggs type indicator test is also used to determine the way that one typically approaches problems; whether an extrovert
or introvert, a sensing or intuitive person, a thinking or feeling person, and a judging or perceiving person. In addition,
Wood states he is “not the slightest bit discouraged by tight job markets. There are enough advantages in a Davidson
education if you just take initiative.” Wood continued, “So many times the student who has put his foot in the
door through internships or vacation experiences will be more highly considered when job hunting.”

To satisfy this need, Wood offers experiential and extern programs in many national and international locations. Another option is the
Career Service Program where a student may drop out of school for a term or a year, keeping his status
as a student, to become involved in a career exploration program or to serve disadvantaged people. Wood concluded, “To know
and articulate your interests, abilities, and values—the three most important factors in a career choice—is essential information in creating a
strong position for an internship as well as in material decisions in Life/Work planning.”
