_The Davidsonian_

September 10,

Archetypical Western stampedes Davidson

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Freshmen, for a fast introduction to Davidson professors, go see The Death and Life of Sneaky Fitch. Dr. Manning is a bum; Dr. Kimmel, a gunslinger. Dr. Polley digs graves; Dr. Workman is a drunkard. Dr. White prays for you after he takes you for all you’re worth.

The Death and Life of Sneaky Fitch has more appeal to the Davidson community than it might elsewhere because of the actors; the professors step down from the lectern onto the stage of an old Western scene.

The play is an “archetypical Western,” as the playwright James L. Rosenberg describes it—archetypical to the point of satire.

Through narration and song Lilith Otey leads us to the Gopher Gulch, a town so typically Western you can smell the horses.

You have your mean and nasty gunslinger (Dr. Kimmel) dressed in what else but black, complete with a bowlegged walk and beady eyes. The Saloon girl is there (Meg Kello) sporting her red, red dress and black garter. (Has Wilson seen this play?)

The Prairie wives (Lucy Johnston and Van Lear Logan) give style to the rigid “Code of the West.”

The Doctor (Dr. Workman) is just a good old drunk. And Tony Boon smiles a lot.

Then there’s Sneaky Fitch (Dr. Manning). He’s a bum.

Epitomizing all that is cowardly, amoral, and half-witted, the town of Gopher Gulch treats him as such, waiting for the day when he will die and leave them to carry on with “life as it should be in a Western town.”

He dies, or so the people of the town hastily decide. Actually, Sneaky is only under sedation. When he wakes up the town immediately declares him immortal, treats him so, and Sneaky in turn acts the part.

Now Sneaky Fitch (or I should say Franklin Fitch) becomes as mean, unmerciful, and insensitive a dictator as he was cowardly before the “resurrection.”

Let’s stop here. The ending should remain a surprise. Actually, the ending should be left out. The playwright weaves his message into the play, the message that we can become what people wish us to become if we compromise self for public opinion.

But, as the director Constance Welsh points out, “The playwright does not show us enough of Sneaky’s character in the beginning for us to determine who Sneaky truly is.”

What the playwright damages in moralizing, the actors make up in vitality. The audience may never respect Sneaky, but cannot help but enjoy Dr. Manning. As Welsh put it, “He’s a brilliant clown.”

“Clown” is the appropriate image for the character who waddles around the stage in pink underwear, because of the cartoon effect toward which the set and costume designer Robert Croghan aimed.

Croghan, a member of the UNC-C Theater Arts faculty, used Walt Disney colors and a flat set to create, as Welsh describes it, “visual rather than verbal.”

I asked her what it was like to work with so many professors.

“Extremely satisfying,” she answered. “Teachers are sensitive to how to be taught. What they lack in talent they make up in intelligence.”

The Death and Life of Sneaky Fitch is not the first time Welsh has worked with professors. She began the Davidson Community Players eleven years ago on what she calls a “whimsical basis.” “When I wanted to do a play I did it.”

Since then the Players have become an organization headed by a board consisting of Scotty Nicholls, Randy Kincaid, Max Polley, Hansford Epes, and Judy Shu.

Performances of The Death and Life of Sneaky Fitch will be Friday and Saturday, September 9 and 10 at 8:15 pm in Hodson Hall. Tickets are $1.50 for students and can be obtained at the Workbench.

Homecoming talent search commences

Davidson’s Student Government Association will kick off this year’s homecoming festivities with a new student-faculty talent show entitled “Top Hat and Cat-Tales.”

A combination of music and satire, the show will be held on Thursday, October 6 in Love Auditorium.

The winner, chosen by a panel of student and faculty judges, will earn the right to compete in regional and national competitions. Eight to ten spots on a January Bob Hope special will be awarded to national winners.

The SGA encourages eating houses, fraternities, clubs, freshman halls, faculty members, and students to enter the talent show by signing for an audition time slot in Will Terry’s office. Auditions will be held September 26-30.

DAVIDSON

Class of '81

You have our number!

Bring the number (given you at the College Union party Tuesday) to our store and you will receive a FREE GIFT.

And if THE NUMBER is the same as one of those posted in our store (ten of them are) you get, also, a $10.00 Gift Certificate FREE.

"A WORLD OF GIFTS"

THE VILLAGE STORE

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners

Custom Framing, Prints, Posters, Graphics, Limited Editions
110 MAIN STREET • DAVIDSON, N.C.