__§ SO rr a gn PLES The Davidsonian Colostomy declared dead, © —Snow promises refunds By MARIELLEN SAWADA Staff Writer Subscription refunds for the satirical newspaper/magazine, The Colostomy, should be in the mail in the near future, promises Tony Snow '77, editor of the magazine. The Colostomy was a publishing endeavor initiated last fall by a group of students who perceived a need for a humor/satire publication on the Davidson campus. Although approximately one hundred subscriptions were sold to College students, the paper was never printed. Snow spoke about the paper: "I want to get it off of my back. It’s a matter of trying to get the (subscription) checks." Snow explained that the subscription money (approximately $300) is in an account co-signed by himself and Mike Morris. (Morris graduated fall term 1976.) Snow said that Morris came to Davidson with the checks last year, but never got in touch with him to obtain the list of subscribers and their 76-77 Davidson addresses. September 23, 1977 Snow will be out of the country for the next couple of years and will leave Morris to take care of the subscription refunds. "I’m going to mail the subscription list to him and let him take care of it. I don’t want it," Snow said. "I guess you have to have more discipline to be an editor of something like that. I single-handedly wrote 2½ issues—but I couldn't get people together to get it published," he commented. RHC, DSC now independent By SHERI GRAVETT Staff Writer The Residence Hall Council (RHC) and its former subcommittee the Dorm Social Council (DSC) which serve to provide physical improvements as well as social-educational events within the dorms, are now operating as separate groups. In order for the councils to provide more effective service, the DSC has been placed under the auspices of the College Union, which has always provided it operating funds. The RHC is funded by the Activities Tax Council. Despite their separation, the duties of both councils will remain the same. SGA Vice-President and Chairman of the RHC, Bruce Brown, stated that the council is composed of one elected representative from each dorm and three from Belk. He said that it would continue in its function of providing "dorm and recreational improvements" as well as serving as a "continuing liaison between (Director of Student Housing) Scotty Nichols, (Director of Facilities and Planning) Grover Meetze and the students in areas such as heating, room maintenance, and off-campus housing maintenance." RHC's official budget for this year is $1500, which will be used for dorm lounge improvements (television, furniture), kitchen facilities for the dorms, and recreational equipment such as the ping pong table installed in Belk this week. Future plans may include the installation of a centrex phone system which would link all college phones with a central switchboard, and a buying service for items such as refrigerators and lumber which would allow students to purchase these items wholesale. The council, composed of volunteer members, will use its $1000 budget to "supplement hall parties and sponsor campus-wide events," according to DSC chairperson Mary Chester Morgan. Morgan sees the DSC as a means "to promote dorm unity" and give students a chance to meet their neighbors. The DSC caters mostly to upperclassmen since the freshmen have special social monies allocated to them by Dean of Students Will Terry. Campus events sponsored in the past by the DSC have included a pumpkin carving contest, frisbee contest, and NEWS at a glance Registration dates changed Students will register for winter term courses from November 2-8, instead of in October as previously announced. Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman announced the change yesterday, commenting that, "The purpose of this change is to allow students, and particularly freshmen, more time for reflection before making up their minds as to what courses to take next term." "It was felt," he continued, "that four weeks were not a long-enough experience with a course or subject matter to make choices regarding continuance. Our hope is that with more time to make a realistic appraisal ofinterests, students will make more definitive choices at registration and thereby lessen the pressure during the drop-add period." He indicated that the change would be made on an experimental basis. "The earlier date for registration has been used up to now because the bookstore needs six weeks in order to order the books in time for them to be on the shelves by the beginning of class. With a later registration, the bookstore will have to guess the enrollment based on past experience and the professors’ estimates. If it does not work out, we will have to revert to the previous earlier date.”

Legislature increases grant

The North Carolina Legislature has increased by $100 the amount of the state tuition grant awarded to all North Carolina students. This action brings the total amount granted to North Carolinians to $500. Three hundred dollar grants are given to students regardless of need, and an additional two hundred dollars for each state resident attending a private college is placed into a fund and awarded to students on the basis of need. Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. served for the past two years as chairman of the North Carolina Association of Independent Colleges and Universities and played a key role in the funding increase.

skateboard contest.

Court considered

[Continued from page 1]

Court and reestablish a situation where most every freshman would be able to sign up at his first-choice house. Such a situation would alleviate the injustice done to freshmen who get a poor draw in the row selection and find most houses filled when they sign up. Some students held the opinion that, since Davidson is a small school, it should emphasize a community spirit and should not encourage fraternities by allowing a formal bid system. Fraternities, they said, tend to fragment students. These students agreed with the sentiments expressed in a speech last week by College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., who said that Davidson’s old fraternity system “channeled loyalties narrowly, insulated people, and prevented students from making broader friendships.” Spencer warned that any return to formal bidding would stir again those evils. “I am strongly convinced that it would be a serious mistake to take even one step backward toward a system of formal exclusion,” he said.

Next Monday the Advisory Council will consider the report of the Patterson Court Subcommittee and determine if it wishes to make a recommendation to the Board of Trustees at its October 7 meeting. “We went to the Board of Governors of the University of North Carolina and said we would like to add $100 for next year and another $100 for the year after that,” explained Spencer. The legislature was reluctant to commit itself that far, however, and only passed the first $100 slated for this year. It is hoped that if money is available the second $100 amount will be granted.

Council sets agenda

Ten major areas of campus life will be considered by the Council on Campus and Religious Life this year, said Dean of Students Will Terry. “We divided the work into ten areas and asked members to indicate their interests,” said Terry. Council members will work in subcommittees before bringing their area topics before the entire council. Dean Terry outlined the following areas in a recent meeting:

1. The College's Christian commitment
2. Patterson Court and self-selection
3. College Union—How is it fulfilling its role on campus?
4. Language houses—Whether and how to create them
5. The Freshman Hall concept
6. Food service
7. Several kinds of different experiences of groups on campus: the black experience, Jewish and international students
8. Student health service
9. Behavior in dorms—What does that reflect?—our lacks and our assets
10. Continuation with the study of coeducation

The term “Campus and Religious Life” is defined in the Student Constitution: “as all those extracurricular policies, programs, ...campus activities which have as their aim the enrichment of the spiritual, social, and cultural lives of the college community and its individual members.”

ADOWN 8 & 10:30 PM.