Ars lenis Ao.

PON IAL RTL EET LETTS,

By TANDA WITHERSPOON
Staff Writer:
The Women’s Varsity Tennis Team ended its season by placing fifth in the State. Other schools participating were Duke, UNC,
Wake Forest, Appalachian, ECU, and N.C. State.

Throughout the season, Davidson has been at a great disadvantage in its matches, for all of the state schools award
scholarships and begin their training in September. With no scholarships and not as much time to practice, the team feels
that they’ve done quite well.

Their final record for the season was 10-8, with Becca “Cool” Stimson receiving MVP, and Nancy Brown honored with the
Carol Goldsborough Award.

The line-up for the season consisted of: Kirk Cameron, Becca Stimson, Sue McAvoy, Nancy Brown, Bunny Horine, Tanda Witherspoon, Ruth
Murphy, Mary Gilliam, Martha MacGill, and Sara Tatum.

“The scrubs,” as they call themselves, also gave a lot of help and support during the year. This recognition goes
to: Lise Dolasston, Susan Casper, Mary Gray Gilchrist, and Nina Broome.

Living through far away matches, spacey bus rides, after-dinner entertainment, and supermarket doors (you can ask Tatum), they’ve all had
a lot of fun, and are expecting next year to be even better.

Finally, the team would like to thank graduating seniors Becca Stimson, Sue McAvoy, and Ruth Murphy, who each played a
large part in founding the women’s team, and also coach Pat Drake, for her work and support, which the team
couldn’t have done without.

NOT ONLY DOES MIKE KENNEDY miss the ball, but he misses the whole golf course. (Irv Wilson)

Look for an impressive season

Netters ‘psyched’ for fall

JYA returns Chip Bondurant and Steve Johnson while Steve Holman comes back from a year off. When added to the
returning core from this year’s team, things look bright for the future.

The men’s tennis team completed a winning season Saturday with the wind-up of the Southern Conference tournament held at Davidson.
Their 16-11 overall record and 3-3 conference standing stood strong through the tournament.

Furman, William and Mary, and Appalachian dominated both the regular season and the tournament, finishing in the same 1-2-3 order
in both. Davidson was fourth.

Playing a young lineup, coach Jeff Frank’s team was solid throughout the year.

Allard Castelein at #1 and Gu Kayton at #5 played their first full year of conference competition, as did freshmen
Jeff Lyle and Rick Johnston at #3 doubles. All were consistently good performers through the season.

Sophomore John Trout at #4 joined juniors Mike Barnhill at #2, Stewart Boswell at #3, and Brian Cooper at #6
to fill the top six singles spots. Barnhill had a super year finishing with an 18-8 record in singles. He
joined with Kayton and mounted a strong #2 doubles team. Castelein and Boswell played tough at the #1 doubles spot,
while Lyle and Johnston carried a fine 16-4 record into the tournament.

The conference tournament saw Furman in control all the way through the three-day event.

Individually, Davidson did well. Barnhill and Cooper had outstanding tournaments, losing in the finals in their divisions. Kayton and Trout
both finished fourth in their divisions. Castelein and Boswell won the consolation singles at their respective divisions and teamed for
the consolation #1 doubles title. Barnhill and Kayton wound up fourth in division 2 doubles, and Lyle and Johnston ended
up third in their division.

The solid performance by the team made them one of the few varsity sports teams at Davidson to enjoy a
winning season.

Coach Frank was pleased with the year and the tournament and sees next year as being potentially stronger.

Basketball Awards

The following awards were presented at a team banquet in Charlotte on May 3:
- John Belk MVP Award: John Gerdy
- Robert M. McLeod Award (Best defensive player): Marvin Lively
- Most Improved: Marvin Lively
- Best Rebounder: Jerry Stallworth
- D. G. Martin Award (Determination, courage, and hustle): Pat Hickert
- Best Free Throw Shooter: Tim Bowker
- Most Outstanding Freshman: Rod Owens
- Most Team Oriented: Mark Sumwalt
- Freshman Award: Brian Coffey
- Best Field Goal Percentage: John Gerdy

There is a difference!!!

PREPARE FOR:
MCAT® DAT® LSAT® SAT
GRE® GMAT® OCAT® VAT

Our broad range of programs provides an umbrella of testing know-how that enables us to offer the best preparation available,
no matter which course is taken. Over 38 years of experience and success, small classes, voluminous home study materials, courses
that are constantly updated, permanent centers open days, evenings & weekends all year, complete tape facilities for review of class
lessons and for use of supplementary materials, make-ups for missed lessons at our centers.

Call Toll Free 800-221-9848

Centers in Major U.S. Cities and Lugano, Switzerland
TEST PREPARATION SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938

Come out to the Lake Campus to see the sailing team host the South Atlantic Inter-Collegiate Conference Championship

This Saturday, May 7 from 10 to 5

MOTHER’S DAY is Sunday, May 8th

Come to John Mack’s and let us help you select that special gift for Mom.

Whether your wish is for a very modest remembrance or something extra special, we have a good selection for your
choosing.

FREE GIFT WRAPPING
