April 15, 1977

Despite incredible hangovers

The Davidsonian

| centennial

15—

Gridders smash through UNC lines

By RICHARD NEILL
Staff Writer

The Club Football team arrived in North Myrtle Beach Good Friday for the league’s Beach Tournament, and went right to
work preparing for a tough weekend. The enthusiastic players could soon be seen running happily about the beach, exercising (their
elbows especially), making all the necessary plans for a victorious weekend, and generally getting in shape for the game in
body and in spirit.

Saturday afternoon saw the 16 Davidson players matched against a heavily favored UNC team. Several of the Wildcats had only
been with the team since the start of the Spring term and many of the players are freshmen, but this
“well-prepared” Wildcat team was to completely dominate the game.

The Wildcats scored first in a “fake screen right, screen left” to halfback Ron Rosenberg. This was soon followed by
defensive lineman George Brown, returning a fumble for a touchdown. Fullback Paul Henschen added another six points before the half
ended, giving the Cats an 18-0 lead.

UNC had been unable to move against Davidson’s awesome defense, captained by linebackers Tony Boone and Tim Sellers. By the
end of the game, the defensive backfield had three interceptions—two by Russ Folger and one by Frank Callcott. Both defensive
and offensive play by the Wildcats were outstanding.

Davidson's final score came early in the third quarter, as Paul Henschen bulled up the middle for another T.D., giving
the Wildcats a 24-0 lead.

Chapel Hill couldn’t cross mid-field until late in the last quarter, after a penalty and a good “scamper” by their
halfback. The Cats dug in on the 10-yard line, however, and held UNC for their last four plays of the
game.

The team was jubilant after this unexpected victory and glowing from the thrill of victory (or whatever).

After this good showing, the Cats look hopefully to this weekend’s game against ASU, who soundly defeated the Wildcats in
the fall. This game will be on Sunday, April 17, at 1:30 pm on the practice field.

“Cheaters never win”

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Staff Writer

Yesterday, the Girl’s Tennis Team lost to a powerful Clemson team by a final score of 7-2.

Davidson's #1 player Kirk Cameron commented afterwards on the difference in competition between this year and last. “Our team was
comparable in talent last year, but with the increase in women’s scholarships at opposing schools, it is getting harder and
harder to compete.”

She cited one example where the University of South Carolina will change their four partial scholarships to six full scholarships
next year.

Yet, Kirk stated that she really enjoys the hard competition. She only wishes that the same friendly atmosphere could still
prevail on the court.

But with the increase in scholarships, Kirk notices that her opponents tend to be more obnoxious and harder to play
with since they fear losing their scholarships.

“This year some girls have even started to cheat more,” she remarked.

The Davidson squad is an extremely athletic bunch with most of the players participating in at least one other sport.
Kirk indicates that all the girls are really close, and they have a lot of fun together. “Sometimes we’re really
crazy together. We even sing in the van after matches.”

THE WOMEN’S TENNIS TEAM is having a winning season in spite of an increase in scholarships at other schools. (Irv
Wilson)

Baseball: 9-20
Davidson 9 California (Pa.) 4
Wake Forest 15 Davidson 5
B.C.U. 1 Davidson 9
H.C.U. 8 Davidson 9
Pfeiffer 15 Davidson 0
Davidson 6 Lenoir Rhyne 0

Tennis: 15-9
Davidson 6 The Citadel 3
Furman 6 Davidson 3
Davidson 6 Harvard 3
Davidson 6 Washington & Lee 3
Davidson 9 Pfeiffer 0
A.S.U. 9 Davidson 0

Women’s Tennis: 9-5
Davidson 9 UNCC 0
Davidson 6 Radcliffe 3
Davidson 6 N.C. State 3

Golf: 1-0
3rd at WCU Match
12th in Elon Invitational

Women’s Track: 1-0
2nd in Davidson Relays

Men’s Track: 0-5
11th in Davidson Relays

CHILDREN BY CHOICE

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CONTRACEPTION
VASECTOMY
PREGNANCY TESTING
SPEAKERS
COUNSELING
LIBRARY
EARLY ABORTION
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
