January 28, 1977

The Davidsonian

Wit

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

To have looked at the 7-woman team from Newberry College, the “Squaws,” one wouldn’t have thought the basketball game on
Tuesday, January 25, would be very interesting.

The game got off to a slow start, with numerous turnovers. The Cats seemed to be playing as a unit,
but too many of the attempted shots were consistently off.

However, by the time the clock read 12:03, the game sped up considerably. Davidson’s passing also made a marked improvement.

Sara Womack hit shots consistently from the upper left corner of the key, and at 7:36 the score was 18-14,
Davidson’s favor.

Coach Susie Roberts put the full-court press into action, a very effective move. Both Kat Morton and Cindy Morrison poured
shots in from under the basket.

No matter how effective a press, however, Newberry started a comeback, and consistently scored. Davidson put the prescribed plays into
action, but these were not the needed medicines.

By 6:09, all seven of Newberry’s team members had played. Before half-time Davidson pulled up its suspenders and roared ahead,
43-28.

Kat Morton, in her typical kneeling position, made a tremendous save, Beth Tanner hit several consecutive shots from the top
of the key; and finally everything began to click.

Fifty-one percent of the first half field goals and fifty percent of the free throws were completed.

The second half of the game began with essentially the same scene as the first, although speeded up. Nora McNeill
and Ann Clark both entered the game during this half.

By 14:58, Davidson was playing well offensively, and playing a very tight defense. Sara Womack still put shots in consistently.

Although at times Newberry came “too close” Davidson kept well ahead of the “Squaws.” B.T. and Sara continued to dominate
the boards by hitting again and again.

At 3:30, Bonnie Caulkins relieved Ann Clark as center.

The game ended in victory for Davidson, driving the Cats' record up to 6-4.

Beth Tanner was top scorer with 25 points, and Sara Womack not far behind with 22.

Sara was also top rebounder, with 11 rebounds, and Cindy Morrison had nine rebounds.

Thirty-eight percent of the field goals, and 25 percent of the free throws were completed during the second half.

Following the game, several players commented that they “wish that the team as a whole had played better. We’re not
unhappy that we won, by any means, but just wish we’d played more consistently.”

Coach Susie Roberts expressed virtually the same feelings with “I’m in a good mood, and have been all day. What
more can I say?”

SARA WOMACK shows some of her skill in ball handling in the Cats' game against Newberry. (Irv Wilson)

Coaches Patton, Pritchett anticipate similar action in game on Saturday

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

The Wildcats play East Carolina University in Greenville, N.C., in what should be a good test for Davidson.

The Pirates of East Carolina, like Davidson, also have a young team, only one senior and one junior out of
a squad of eleven, and they have been hurt by the same problems that have plagued Davidson.

East Carolina Head Coach Patton indicated that offensive inconsistency and young mistakes are the two major problems that have held
his team back.

“The game Saturday night will probably be like when we were down there with Davidson being patient on offense,” Patton
said.

“They will probably be in a zone defense, we’ll use our standard man-to-man defense. It’ll be a low scoring ball
game.”

Coach Patton cited Jim Ramsey and Larry Hunt as his two most effective offensive players; they scored eight and five
points respectively against the Wildcats on the eleventh.

During the previous encounter between the two teams Herb Gray, who led ECU with 14 points but was shaken up
when he went high for a dunk and came down hard on the floor. Gray hasn’t been the same since.

“Gray got banged up down there and hasn’t had a good game yet,” said Coach Patton.

Davidson Head Coach Dave Pritchett also anticipates the game Saturday night to be similar to the game with ECU at
Davidson.

But Pritchett said, “We always start in a man-to-man defense, it helps us loosen up and get moving on offense.”

Coach Pritchett feels that if the Cats can maintain their poise on offense and continue their fine defensive play which
they have exhibited throughout the year, that Davidson will have a good chance to come home with a win.

Electronic Service and Sales
173 N. Main Street
663-4513
MOORESVILLE

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30
MOORESVILLE
TELEPHONE 663-3611

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
