The Davidsonian

April 1, 1977

Dr. Smith examines American past

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Dr. Charles Page Smith, author of *As a City Upon a Hill: The Town in American History*, *The Historian and
History*, *Daughter of the Promised Land: Women in American History*, and the highly acclaimed two-volume biography *John Adams*, will be
at Davidson April 4-6 as a part of the Reynolds Lecture series.

Smith, now Professor Emeritus of History at Cornell College of the University of California at Santa Cruz, is also the
author of *A New Age Now Begins*, in which he interprets the American Revolution as a “people’s rebellion” which resulted
in the most incredible shift from colony to autonomous state in human history.

A relentless researcher, Smith uses anecdotes and little-known stories to create his narrative.

Smith’s first open lecture will be at 10 am Tuesday in the 900 Room where he will speak on “New
England Town Meetings and Hippie Communities”; at 8 pm he will discuss “What Watergate Tells Us About the Constitution” and
will retire afterward to the Morrison Room for coffee and informal conversation.

On Wednesday Smith will deliver another 10 am lecture in the 900 Room, this time on “Is It Any Longer
Possible to Write a Narrative History of the U.S.?” At 1 pm he will speak on “Women in American History”
at the Open Luncheon on Women’s Concerns in the 900 Room. Later in the evening he will be available for
informal conversation in the Morrison Room.

Local nuclear plant poses dilemma

By ROGER BROWN
Staff Writer

In 1979 Davidson will be closer to radioactive plutonium than it is to the city of Mooresville. In two years
we will be within five miles of a nuclear power plant.

Duke Power began construction of the McGuire Power Plant in 1971 after the ten-year planning period in which approval of
zoning and licenses were sought and obtained for its site on Lake Norman.

The construction of the plant raises serious questions.

Representatives of Duke Power claim that nuclear energy is environmentally less harmful than similar capacity coal-burning plants. They argue that
no significant danger of explosion or leakage exists and look optimistically to the future when reprocessing spent fuel will reduce
waste quantities and increase the energy potential of available fuel.

What then is the controversy?

Some opponents of nuclear energy contend nuclear energy is an unrealistic short-range solution to the mounting demand for energy. Like
fossil fuels, nuclear fuels are non-renewable and will eventually be exhausted. Light water reactors, such as the McGuire Plant, produce
a fuel capacity that barely exceeds the equivalent petroleum-fueled plant.

Critics argue that the investment of so much time and resources into a dead-end venture is nonsense.

The McGuire Plant will cost Duke Power nine million dollars, three times the amount invested in all of their other
Lake Norman-based power operations, including the Marshall Station Coal Station which has almost double the total energy capacity of the
McGuire Plant.

The most rampant fears are of explosion, radioactive leaks, and extortion by terrorist groups.

Duke claims to have minimized these possibilities to a minuscule level through proper construction of a thick cement wall and
high-level security. However, the effects of earthquakes and other natural disasters are difficult to predict and their implications are difficult
to plan for. Automatic shutoffs might be effective, careful storage might prevent spills... but the mights cannot be effectively planned
for.

The plans for disposal disturb many opponents of nuclear energy.

The wastes stored at the McGuire Plant will contain plutonium. Critics point out that the storage of the annual 450
pounds of plutonium at Lake Norman increases the risk of contamination due to leakage. Lake Norman supplies water for much
of this area. The time that it takes for plutonium to decay, 24,100 years, is a long wait for half
of the contaminant to stabilize.

Disposal and leakage are issues that have caused serious problems in other nuclear power plants throughout the world.

Worldwide already over nine tons of plutonium have been generated and are being stored primarily underground in sealed glass water-filled
containers. In earlier tests, Great Britain and the U.S. dumped raw nuclear wastes deep into the Pacific hoping to effectively
ship the problem away. But the earth is too small: within hours after the dumps alarming levels of waste were
found in plankton near the ocean surface.

Large leaks have occurred. One hundred and fifteen thousand gallons of potent waste leaked from storage at Hanford, Washington. No
serious damage was done because the soil was especially retentive, but Hanford raises fears of other leaks.

In a speech two years ago at Davidson, Ralph Nader alleged that active plutonium had been shipped via open pick-up
truck in the Midwest and meanwhile proponents of nuclear energy point to a safety record which implies that bee stings
are more dangerous.

What we don’t need are irrational word duels; we need serious decisions. How important are our high energy-synthesized goodies, like
detergent and fertilizers? How important are nightly hot showers and hairdryers? If we can’t live without them, how do we
live with them? Essentially, we must decide if the risk of nuclear energy is worth the additional energy it avails.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Tony Perkins in Hitchcock’s classic thriller

PSYCHO

you’ll never shower alone!

8:00 10:30

NEW WORLD PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS:
BONNIE RAITT IN CONCERT
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13th - 8:00 PM
OVENS AUDITORIUM - CHARLOTTE, N.C.

All seats reserved - Tickets - $5.50 & $6.50
Tickets available by mail, send a certified check or money order along with a self-addressed envelope to:
NEW WORLD PRODUCTIONS
6629 E. Independence Blvd
Charlotte, N.C. 28205
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL: 704/568-3010

THE HANGAR LOUNGE
Rt. 115 Cornelius

THE SKYBAND
BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND
FRI & SAT: NITE 9-1

HAPPY HOUR MON—SUN 3-6
DRAFT BEER 25¢

FOOD, BEER, FUN, GAMES
