---

The Davidsonian

September 16, 1977

Review: Sicilian traveler rambles

By Bill Barnes
Staff Writer
Sicilian Carousel, by Lawrence Durrell, Viking Press, $10.00, 256 pp.

Sicily, just off the toe of Italy across from Reggio Calabria, seems on a map something of an afterthought, a can about to be booted toward Gibraltar. In Sicilian Carousel, novelist, poet, and professional traveler Lawrence Durrell portrays the island as anything but.

For Durrell, Sicily is more continent than island, packed with mementoes of five civilizations. Escaping his French home “for a change,” Durrell embarked on the ‘Sicilian Carousel’—a red bus carrying a motley group of tourists—for a glimpse of the island.

The book chronicles this journey, a jaunt undertaken and intertwined, however, with more than tourism in mind. Durrell’s Sicilian visit was in large part a pilgrimage in memory of a recently dead friend, Martine, who lived in and loved Sicily. The travelogue which provides the core of this vaguely picturesque book is therefore interspersed with quotations from Martine’s many letters. These often prove points of departure for meditations on Athens, “Greater Greece,” philosophy, and Durrell’s own past as well as on Sicily.

The letters also cause Durrell to reflect on his fellow tourists. The red bus which conveys the group about the island contains a mixed bag of bourgeois, from a French family quickly nicknamed the “microscopes” to a renegade English schoolmaster. The most interesting of the lot, however, soon becomes Deeds, a sometime officer in the British Eighth Army who soon becomes Durrell’s friend.

Deeds, with his annotated guidebooks, desert-war jargon, and constant commentary, is an effective foil to Durrell’s meditations. As the tour winds around Sicily from Syracuse through Naxos, Agrigento, Segestus, to Messina and Taormina, these meditations acquire an independence from both Deeds’ and Martine’s as Durrell comes to know the island and to make his own judgments.

This process, however, occupies the bulk of the book, and Durrell is never able to free himself completely from Martine’s Sicily. As a result, the volume tends to appear elegiac, proof that Durrell does not forget his friends. It is often Martine, through her letters, who most evokes Sicily, her words flowing with the love characteristic of a devotee of place. The travel book is thus somewhat lost among the memories which crowd its pages, but Carousel nevertheless succeeds admirably as a companion; it would be a fine book to cart about Sicily as one. Durrell’s description is consistently fine, as is his characterization of his fellow travelers. Not to mention his poetry, which appears in Carousel in the form of several previously unpublished pieces.

The poems are perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of the book. They create a mood sometimes absent from the prose which combines joy and sorrow, presence and absence. “Thus and thus we shall remember you,” writes Durrell in “Taormina” dedicating both the poem and Carousel to memories, not of Martine, nor of Sicily itself, but of the Mediterranean whole.

---

THIRD WATTS get a dunking as their raft nears the finish line in last Saturday's Freshman Regatta out at the Lake Campus. “The kegs were supposed to be on the bottom,” smirked George Kent [far right] after the raft creation crawled in second to last.

COLOR BY DELUXE®

PG

HARROW HOUSE

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:

LOVE $1.00

FRIDAY

8 & 10:30

---

Student Government Elections

Sept. 27. Filing deadline is Tuesday, Sept. 20. Filing statements and sign-up sheets are located in Dean Terry’s office. There will be an all candidates meeting on Sept. 20 at 4:00 p.m. in the Conference Room of the Union.

---

HELP WANTED AT THE...

Peregrine House

for pizza delivery. Must have own car.

HAPPY HOURS
THURSDAY & FRIDAY 8:30-10 PM

---

