April 29, 1977

The Davidsonian

SIMPLE WITHDRAWAL

This applies to students who transfer, decide to take some time out, or are determined to quit school:

1. Visit Dean of Students
2. Conference to clarify:
a. reason for leaving
b. explanation about how to return
c. the check-out form which is filled by various offices

RETURNING

1. Write a letter to the Dean of Admissions*
2. Payment of $200 tuition deposit due usually on or before April 1

Hints: When a student plans to take courses at another school, he should get clearance from the registrars. A student
who withdraws after the add-drop period receives an F in each course unless he receives an authorized withdrawal from the
Dean of Students. The manner in which a student leaves (more or less for leaving) affects the recommendations he may
later request in order to return.

*The sooner this letter is sent to the Dean of Admissions, the better the student's chances of readmittance for the
desired academic term.

Early in the term preceding participation, students discuss needs, desires, and ideas concerning the experience. This is done through Ken
Wood, Director of Experiential Programs.

2. Over several weeks a plan is devised.

CAREER SERVICE

In the career service program, off-campus — for the period of time that he intends to be off-campus, whether one
term or more.

3. If the plan calls for earning academic credit in connection with the experience, students will make arrangements with members
of the faculty and the registrar's office.

4. When a plan has been devised, a special form is obtained from the registrar to complete the process. This
is signed by the student, Ken Wood, and the registrar's office in that order.

The student is billed $75.00 for administrative costs covering any period off-campus.

RETURNING

1. Write a letter to the Registrar's office to confirm the time of return.
2. Payment of $200 tuition deposit due usually on or before April 1.

Registrar explains readmission difficulties

By DAVE SCHMIDT
Staff Writer

Most Davidson students at one time or another contemplate taking time off from school. The process is quite simple and
those on official leave seldom have problems being readmitted into the college. Students on official leave are guaranteed a place
when they return. Any difficulties that could arise can be easily taken care of before the student leaves the college.

Dr. Richard Burts explained the reasons for previous difficulties with the process of readmitting students. “Many students who take time
off are under the misconception that when they leave, they create a vacancy that will not be filled until they
return. However, this is not true. The college attempts to fill every vacancy, except those for which a student is
guaranteed a spot upon his return.”

When a student drops out of school altogether, Tony Boon, Admissions Counselor explains, “The best thing for a student to
do before he leaves is to stop by the Admissions Office and let us know that they are planning to
leave. If they take the time to do this, and they seem to have a legitimate reason for leaving, then
they have little trouble in being readmitted. We encourage people to take time off if they feel it will help.
What about those students who suddenly reappear?”

“We first question them as to their reasons for leaving, and then about what benefits they feel they received from
their experiences. We look...at their past record at Davidson. If they performed well in the past, they probably won’t encounter
many problems concerning readmissions. If, however, the student is considered a ‘high-risk’ student, his chances are diminished considerably. If he
performed poorly in the past, then we would try to fill his vacancy with a better student. Finally, we consider
how long they have been gone. If we don’t feel that the student would fit in the atmosphere here, then
that diminishes their chances for readmission. But this really is the least of our considerations.

“For those students who did not previously give us an approximate date of return, timing is also crucial. We very
rarely have any open spaces in the fall, readmission increases considerably the later in the year he applies.”

2) Can a student be readmitted if they didn’t stop by the Admissions Office first? Are their chances of readmission
diminished because of this? Dr. Burts explained the readmission policy for these people. No one who has dropped out is...

Physicist Price to speak

P. Buford Price, a renowned physicist and Davidson alumnus whose search for the elementary unit of magnetism got him a
1975 front-page story in the New York Times, will speak tonight and tomorrow morning. Price and his associates announced they
had found this unit, called the magnetic monopole, from experiments they did with detectors carried aloft by giant balloons. Unusual
tracks left by rapid particles were detected which at the time Price believed were the monopoles. According to Davidson Physics
Professor Locke White, if Price was correct he will undoubtedly get the Nobel Prize for his work. But since Price’s
announcement, several important physicists have denied his findings suggesting that the rapid particles might be anti-nuclei from anti-stars.

“The man has a lot of appeal and interest for non-scientific folks. The last time he spoke at Davidson, the
non-scientific people were raving about what a fascinating account he gave,” said White. Price will speak tonight, Thursday, at 8
pm in the 900 Room on “Magnetic Monopoles: An Unfinished Scientific Whodunit.” Friday at 10 am he will speak in
the Morrison Room on his discovery.

“THE MADWOMAN OF CHAILLOT” gets student appraisal.

Oil Exec. talks to students

Mr. William Barnes, long-time oil executive working in many different areas of the world, will hold an informal conversation on
oil, energy, and associated politics tomorrow, Friday, April 29. From 1949-1955, Barnes worked as a supervisor in several East Coast
Refineries. He managed activities including producing, refining, marketing, and governmental negotiations in Peru and Colombia from 1955-1966. Barnes was responsible
for all of one company’s petroleum activities from Mexico to Panama during 1966-1968. Since then he has served as an
executive in Madrid, Spain, and Copenhagen, Denmark. Now located in London, Barnes manages three large refineries and a fleet of
crude oil carriers and tankers. He is chairman of a North Sea pipeline construction company. Those who attend the conversation
Friday night at 8 pm in the Morrison Room will, according to Union Director C. Shaw Smith, be able to
determine the direction of the conversation by their questions.

MARLON BRANDO
the godfather
FRIDAY 8:00 & 11:00
$1.00
D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
