September 23, 1977

IN SPITE OF two opening losses, the soccer team is heading in the right direction.

[Gregg Strader]

Davidson hosts fall regatta

By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

Saturday, the Davidson College Sailing Team hosts the Daryl Douglas Fall Invitational Regatta. Schools expected to be participating are NC State, UVA, Duke, Old Dominion, Christopher Newport, UNC, and Davidson.

This will be one of three fall races held by the Northern Division of SAISA (South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association), to which DC belongs.

Faculty advisor, Dr. Hallam Walker, feels that this year’s team will do well. “We have some depth and experience,” he stated, and “a number of good returning skippers.”

He concluded that he could not actually determine how good the team would be, because he had not seen enough of the freshmen in competition.

Dr. Walker also pointed out that a major difference between college regattas and those on a larger scale, such as the recently completed America’s Cup, is the distance of the races.

With the shorter courses for these SAISA races, he remarked that, “So much depends on the start. If you make a bad start, you don't have as much time to make it up.”

This meet is a points regatta, which means that it will count in the totals towards the Fall Championships.

From these championships, which pit Northern Division squads against Southern Division ones, teams are designated to go to nationwide inter-sectional regattas.

In the past, DC has gone to Notre Dame and Ohio State. This year, the team has hopes of racing in the Navy Co-Ed Regatta in Annapolis.

Sophomore Jeff Harris stated that in the races on Saturday, “our main division competition can be expected from ODU and UVA.”

The event begins at 10 am and will continue throughout the day at the Lake Campus.

Electronic Service and Sales

173 N. Main Street
663-4513

MOORESVILLE

PENINGER’S FLOWER & GIFT SHOP

MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C.

By JOHN BUTLER
Staff Writer

After a late pre-season practice start, Coach Carl Kremser is optimistic about the Davidson soccer team.

Kremser views opening losses to Madison and Guilford as a lack of pre-season conditioning.

In both matches, Davidson held their own against tough opponents in the first half, only to wear down late in the contest. But he sees a change coming.

“I think these kids are going to surprise some people, because they're really working hard. It just takes time,” says Kremser.

Kremser comes to Davidson from Killian High School in Florida where he coached his soccer team to a 15-5-2 record last year.

The Wildcats play a very difficult schedule this fall, including UNC-Chapel Hill, N.C. State, Appalachian State, Duke, and South Carolina. But Kremser is pleased with the schedule feeling his team will be playing on the level of these big colleges before long.

“We are very young, but the team shows great promise for the future, particularly our sophomore group.”

The Wildcats are led this year by co-captain Kevin Robbins, a sophomore.

Kremser pointed out, though, that this team is not loaded with outstanding individual power. However, more important to him is their ability to play as a team.

“Sooner or later we'll have eleven outstanding players playing together as an outstanding team.”

That depends on the development of young players such as Robbins and freshman Jay Cox.

The biggest weakness Kremser sees is a lack of depth. But he noted that the team is really dedicated, and a brighter future is ahead for Davidson soccer.

The Wildcats face a severe test against powerhouse UNC-Chapel Hill next Wednesday. The match will be here beginning at 4 pm.

Football: 2-0
Davidson 20
Davidson 42

Soccer: 0-2
Madison 4
Guilford 5

Cross Country: 1-1
Duke 15
Davidson 25

Fordham 17
Washington & Lee 14
Davidson 0
Davidson 1
Davidson 50
Georgia State 32

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611

MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary