The Davidsonian

March 25, 1977

-Hunter Jennings

Chemistry department earns $6500 educational grant

By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Chemistry Department has received a $6500 grant from the Committee on Educational Aid of the Dupont Company.

“We are very grateful and proud to have received this vote of confidence in our chemistry program,” said Department Chairman
J. Nicholas Burnett.

“It is a grant like this that helps to enrich our program above and beyond the limits of our annual
budget,” he said. The Dupont grant, the second received by the Chemistry Department in as many years, is awarded in
recognition of the Department’s quality faculty, the quality of the students within the department, the graduate records of Davidson’s chemistry
majors and the chemistry curriculum itself.

The department has not yet decided where the grant money will go.

Last year’s grant, also $6500, was used as matching money to obtain an additional $8000 grant from the North Carolina
Science and Technology Committee.

The combined grant money purchased a $15,000 Infrared Spectrometer, badly needed for research within the department.

It is a stipulation of the grant that the money cannot be used for the renovation of Martin Science Building.

“The Martin Science facilities are old and worn from 38 years of use,” said Burnett. “It’s not impossible to study
chemistry in them; we just can’t do as good and efficient a job as we could in a more modern
building.

“I think the grant was given in the hope of improving our situation with more modern equipment.”

Commenting on the renovation of Martin, Burnett said that “it takes time to raise the amount of money needed. I
am not discouraged. The prospects are looking better.”

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

The Student Senate appointed six student members to one-year terms on the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Two other
students will be elected to the Council in a college-wide election this term.

Appointed to the Council were: Stewart Boswell, Benita Franklin, Phillip Gladden, Catherine Howard, Robert Payne, and Lana Sims.

The Screening Committee, chaired by Parliamentarian Percy Badham, considered nineteen students for the six positions. They presented ten candidates to
the Senate.

The great interest in the Council stemmed from its decision on the Rusk House. Matters concerning the Court dominated Senate
questioning even though this is only one area of the Council’s responsibility.

The two women appointed, Franklin and Howard, were members of the Council this year. Howard, a member of Emanon this
year, has joined Rusk House for next year. Franklin was the only independent appointed.

Franklin was supported in part because she represented several unique viewpoints, including women, blacks, and independents. She stated, however, that
she could represent other opinions as well.

Payne was head of the freshman group that was seeking the Rusk House. He said that he wanted a position
on the Council. He was impressed by the power of the Council and concerned with the misuse of that power.

He said that he was appalled by the lack of expertise of several of the Council members and that he
would go “the extra mile” to gain the information on Council matters. He received much support in the Senate because
he was the only freshman candidate, and has considerable knowledge of the activities of the Council.

Gladden is a KA and a hall counselor. He was praised for being very poised and moderate in his opinions.

Boswell is a KA, a member of the Hearing Committee, and on the tennis team. He was questioned very intently
about his role as a member of the KA House. He supports the option of a girls’ eating house and
is opposed to the Council’s goal of all coed houses. He felt that alumni would not support a move in
that direction.

Sims is an SAE. He said that he offered himself as an individual and not as a member of a
certain group. Stating that the college had made a commitment to coeducation, he supported the goal of coed houses for
the Court. Senator Hans Watford (Sentelle) praised Sims for not having “vested interests” and for speaking diplomatically.

The Screening Committee presented Bruce T. Brown, Marshall Brown, Jack Davis, and Merideth Durden as candidates for the Alumni Affairs
Committee. The Senate appointed them unanimously.

Bob Cathey appeared before the Senate concerning his petition that the Senate considered last week. His group is doing further
research and will indicate their plans at a later date.

President Thom Young praised Cathey and his group for their concern and their attempt to act on that concern. The
Senate applauded Young’s remarks.

Young presented an amendment to the College Constitution that would make the president of Patterson Court Council an ex officio
member of the Council on Campus and Religious Life.

The amendment must have two readings before the Senate and then a vote of approval from the student body before
it takes effect.

The second Screening Committee, chaired by Watford, begins interviewing this week for positions on the Guidance and Student Counseling Committee,
Library Committee, Physical Education Committee, and the Admissions and Financial Aid Committee.

ETCETERA

Come browse

Use Your Charge Acct., Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mack & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville

121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

Jeans for Guys and Gals

New Shipment of Men’s Shirts, Ladies’ Shirts and Jeans.
Store hours: 10:00 to 5:00

Closed Wednesdays

First Union National.

DAVIDSON
