Seeks student input
White guides admissions’ effort
By MEREDITH DEAN
Staff Writer

For the rest of the Davidson community, the year has barely begun, yet a quick glance in the admissions office assures us that plans for next year’s Freshman Class are already in progress. Applications from high school seniors eager to join Davidson’s ranks are coming in every day, and Saturdays are rapidly being filled with prospective student tours and interviews.

However, handling admissions entails much more than merely processing applications, and Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White was glad to comment on the many aspects of the job.

Student input
One vital area of the admissions program is student input. Presently, student involvement is basically volunteer-oriented and depends on students who are willing to contact prospective applicants from their home areas. Some of this contact is planned, but more often it occurs spontaneously on the part of an interested Davidson student. White was quick to point out the lists posted outside the admissions offices which include the names of present Davidson students, prospective students, and in the spring, newly accepted students. Many upperclassmen see familiar names or zip codes on these lists and volunteer to contact people, guide visitors' tours, or even keep prospects as overnight guests.

‘Advertise’ Davidson
The newly accepted Freshman is also encouraged to ‘‘advertise’’ by telling juniors in his high school about Davidson and its opportunities. As long as Davidson’s student body continues to be responsible and enthusiastic, White feels that an organized, structured program for student recruiters is unnecessary.

Another area of admissions which relies heavily upon personal contact is that of minority student recruitment. This year’s Freshman class contains fourteen minority students, which is a step forward from recent years.

Minority situation “not ideal”
“Although there are many more qualified minority applicants now than perhaps five years ago and Davidson’s reputation is definitely a drawing point, the College does not offer an ideal situation for a minority student,” White said. In order to encourage more applicants, the admissions department has made it possible for application fees to be waived in some instances. Transportation in order to visit Davidson has also been arranged for some of the minority prospects who might otherwise be unable to see the school. Although these steps are being taken, White stressed the importance of volunteers to make personal contacts in this area.

When asked about Davidson’s current policy concerning the ratio of men to women, White seemed to favor a more balanced situation. However, White feels that a merit-based, sex-blind admissions procedure could lead to an “imbalance in either direction which might prove unattractive to both prospective students as well as those currently enrolled.”

Controversy also surrounds the Stuart Scholarships, which are of-

[See WHITE, page 3]

The Chambers Bell will ring again—the SGA this week asked Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Jr., to repair the bell atop Chambers building which in past years has signaled the changing of classes at Davidson. Often in the past, the bell’s mechanical action, controlled by a sensitive electronic timing device, has been sabotaged and put out of commission. Meetze declares that, “Philip Cashion [Supervisor of Engineering Maintenance] has assured me that he can repair it.” [Gregg Strader]

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

The Patterson Court Rules Subcommittee is considering the issue of the eating house selection process and will report to the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life by next Monday. Several students offered comments last Monday when the subcommittee solicited opinions on the issue at an Open End. Numerous members of some of Davidson’s national fraternities spoke in favor of establishing a selection process that would enable the fraternities a greater degree of control over the selection of new members to their groups.

Prestigious scholars aim to emulate Stuart’s character
By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

“Ed Stuart had very admirable qualities and everything he did, he did well as far as athletics, leadership, music—you name the area, and hewas outstanding,” said Stuart Scholarship recipient Ray Craven. “If I can follow in footsteps like that I think it’s a worthwhile goal and I would like very much to uphold the traditions that he stood for,” he continued. Craven and fellow Stuart Scholar David Waddill are the top recipients of the initial grants made by the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship Program.

There has been some controversy over the Program, the largest scholarships Davidson offers based strictly on merit, because it has been limited to students with a strong Christian commitment. Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. explained that the Stuart family had placed this restriction on the program. “It is Mr. and Mrs. Stuart’s desire to recreate and as far as possible to duplicate the kind of person their son was,” Spencer said, “and they cannot see him apart from the kind of faith which motivated him.”

Craven and Waddill discussed this and other impressions they have of their initial Davidson experience. “Davidson is a whole new experience,” explained Craven, “and the people here are very friendly.” Waddill, a pre-law student, said that Davidson’s good reputation among law professors at Wake Forest Law School helped influence him to come here.

“I’d heard a lot of good things about Davidson; everybody gave it a real good report.” [see STUART, page 3]

Most of these people seemed in general agreement with the principles of the “Anders Proposal,” which was drafted last year by a fraternity member. Under that proposal, the fall term open houses, which acquaint the freshmen with all the Court organizations, would be continued.

Bid or self-select
At a specific date early in winter term, freshmen would place their names on either a “fraternity bid” list or a “self-selection” list. The fraternities would make a special effort to meet those in the bidding list, then would simultaneously issue written bids to those on that list. The fraternities would bid until the bidding pool was empty, or until their houses were filled to capacity. If any students remained on the bid list due to lack of space in the houses, their names would go to the end of the self-selection list. Then the self-selection process would be conducted as it has been in recent years, with students sitting in rows in Love Auditorium, called by their row to sign at the eating house of their choice.

Inequity in system
The fraternity members present said that the Anders proposal or one similar in intent would allow the fraternities to have a voice in determining the character of their groups. They claimed that there is a basic inequity in the eating club self-selection process, which the college says offers students freedom of choice. They maintain that it is the freedom of choice, that beyond the freshman year none of the upperclassmen on the Court have any official power to determine the character of the house at which they eat and socialize. The fraternities want some selection process that will impress upon the freshman the fact that joining a fraternity and joining an eating club are two altogether different commitments.

The fraternity men said that they try to work within the current rules of the self-selection system, but a few admitted that at least some of the fraternities extend oral encouragements to prospective members and indirectly discourage those whom they do not want.

Process discriminates
The fraternity men emphasized that because the Court is overcrowded, the self-selection process often discriminates against men who have decided that they want to sign up with one particular fraternity. If these “firmly committed” get a bad draw when rows are called during self-selection, the fraternity they really wanted to select into might be filled by the time their turn comes. And, to make matters worse, some of those who have taken the places at the fraternity may not be particularly interested in the fraternity itself, but rather are only looking for a place to eat.

Other students at the meeting wondered if the planned new Commons would not relieve the overcrowding on the [see COURT, page 2]