October 21, 1977 on campus

Opinion - Community, not College, holds Christian commitment

By JAY SILVER
Staff Writer

The Christian commitment of Davidson College is perhaps most visible when one looks out from his Chambers classroom window and spies DCPC across the lawn, or when news of the college’s tenure policy makes the Washington Post. One could even choose to search for the meaning of “Christian commitment” by counting up the number of ordained ministers. But such visibility does not constitute a viable Christian commitment. Similarly, Christian commitment resides within the policies, programs, and financial stewardship of the college only in an indirect manner. It is the Christian commitment of the college community, and not the institution itself, in which this commitment lies. People—administration, faculty, and students—are the bearers of this commitment.

Davidson’s “new era”

I’ve heard people say that this statement of enactment is nothing more than the old policy in disguise.

Professor of History William Brown Patterson:
“I think it’s a bit worrisome that the term ‘professing and practicing’ Christians is used as if someone is going to be checking to see who is ‘professing and practicing’. I’ve never liked the idea that there would be that kind of surveillance of the faculty.”

“I wish they hadn’t used the term ‘preponderant majority’ because that must have some sort of numerical value. And as soon as you get into dealing with the problem on that level you inevitably run into the whole issue of quotas.”

Professor of History David Wheeler:
“It is not appropriate to appoint solely on the basis of his or her religion—which is discrimination. There is also a potential inquisitorial streak in this statement—‘it is appropriate to inquire’—it seems to me we still have a religious requirement (for hiring). Nothing is said here about whether a non-Christian could be tenured. It might very well be the case that non-Christians might be appointed to the faculty—a few—and yet that no one would receive tenure.”

By-Law vs. statement

The dissimilarities between the By-Law and the enacting statement are immediately evident. The By-Law speaks in sweeping terms of “educational service” and states that we hire Christians and non-Christians. The Christians should “understand and respond to the implications of their commitment as Christians.” The non-Christians must “work with respect” and “live in harmony.” The terse and tactless enacting statement does not place Christians and non-Christians on equal terms. It seeks a “preponderant majority” of the former, and demands in no uncertain terms that they “profess and practice.” The Trustees clearly think they have some special knowledge of the manner in which a Christian should respond to his commitment. Note the condescension and haughtiness of “while it is intended that some non-Christians will be appointed...” Isn’t it big of us to take in non-Christians? But wait—we don’t want them to “work with respect” and “live in harmony.” The enacting statement says we want them to be “supportive.” The difference between “work with respect” and “support” is vast.

Enacting Statement

It is the firm intention of the Trustees that Davidson College retains its identity as a Christian community in higher education and that the twin goals of academic excellence and the development of Christian character and values be vigorously pursued. The pursuit of academic excellence and the establishment of a Christian commitment depends in the main on the character, commitment, and performance of the people who make up the academic community. Therefore, the Trustees believe that a preponderant majority of the teaching faculty and administrative staff continue to be professing and practicing Christians. In the implementation of this policy, it is appropriate to inquire as to the religious faith and practice of those who are to join the faculty or the staff of the college. While it is intended that some non-Christians will be appointed to posts at Davidson, it is important that they be sympathetic toward and supportive of Davidson's self-understanding as set forth in the Purpose of the college.

Towards the Right: Berry

“What is a ‘preponderant majority’, or to put it in a negative sense, ‘How many Jews is too many Jews?’ If you can have one or two Jews, it seems to me that ultimately the fourth or fifth Jew might try to join the faculty. Will the administration then say, ‘Sorry, we have too many Jews already’? (or Catholics or Buddhists or Moslems, etc.). (The enacting statement) seems to have set up a de facto quota system, and at some point a decision will be made not to appoint solely on the basis of his or her religion—which is discrimination. There is also a potential inquisitorial streak in this statement—‘it is appropriate to inquire’—it seems to me we still have a religious requirement (for hiring). Nothing is said here about whether a non-Christian could be tenured. It might very well be the case that non-Christians might be appointed to the faculty—a few—and yet that no one would receive tenure.”Are we at Davidson living a double standard? If Davidson professors, who understand the peculiarities and uniqueness of Davidson, are wary of the enacting statement, it seems certain that prospective faculty members unfamiliar with Davidson will be uncomfortable with it.

Impact at Davidson

Since the enacting statement is a directive from the Trustees to Dr. Spencer, it is reasonable to assume that College officials will embrace its spirit when interviewing candidates for faculty positions. Maydole worries how a prospective faculty member will be interrogated "as to his religious faith and practice." He does not believe the college should "inquire into what a person personally professes and practices as far as [See STATEMENT, page 12] students—make this academic institution what it is. And the Christian Faith is essentially relational in nature, addressing itself to you and me as individuals, not to rules, regulations, and by-laws. To speak of the Christian commitment of an institution often reflects an attempt to depersonalize Christianity. By keeping it at arm’s length we avoid being confronted with the difficult questions the gospel asks about the quality of my relationships with others and with God.

Let me interject here that I am not advocating that we should ignore the consequences of the college’s new hiring policy nor the college’s past (present?) lack of responsiveness to local social problems. Instead, I am simply placing a greater priority on the informal means of expressing a Christian commitment rather than emphasize the more formal and structured ways in which we attempt to express such a commitment.

What is Christian commitment? There is probably a tendency to assert that it is a commitment to certain ideals or values, such as reverence, justice, temperance, charity, etc. Yet most of these ideals are the same as those embraced by Plato, a host of other religions, and the man on the street. To refer to something or someone as "Christian" with no intention of using it as a means of differentiation gives the word ‘Christian’ no real meaning. Therefore, I think Christian ideas, not ideals, correspond more appropriately to Christian commitment, for it is from the ideas of the Christian faith that its ideals are derived.

The Good News of Jesus, in order to be truly news, does not simply present us with some goals to aim for, but it also tells us something definite about who we are, about who God is, and about who our neighbor is. Take, for example, the following statement by Jesus:

Look at the birds of the air: they neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you by being anxious can add one cubit to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they neither toil nor spin; yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O men of little faith?

This passage from Matthew 6 claims that our worth as persons is intrinsic and is in no way dependent upon our grades in Biology 31 or Math 25; nor is it dependent upon whether or not we have a date for the weekend. Instead, we have the option of accepting one another for what we are, knowing that as individuals we have something to offer each other. On a small campus where student relationships are often hurried and superficial, where faculty members struggle with resentment and even bitterness at times, can we say that our Christian commitment is more than nominal or, at the best, half-hearted? Probably not—and I’m including myself.

The passage quoted above leads to one other dimension of Christian commitment:

Therefore do not be anxious, saying, "What shall we eat?" or "What shall we drink?" or "What shall we wear?" For the Gentiles seek all these things; and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first this kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you as well.

"But seek first..." Our relationship with God takes priority over all other relationships, and it is an essential part of these relationships. There can be little wholeness and not enough forgiveness unless we engage in an honest, struggling search for intimacy with God. Christian commitment concerns both the quality of my relationships with people and the quality of my relationship with God.

My intention here has not been to proselytize but I have meant to give some relevance to the term ‘Christian commitment’. Nor have I intended to give a comprehensive exposition of Christianity. I do hope, however, that by sharing these thoughts with the campus, a more honest and thus fruitful dialogue about Davidson and its Christian commitment will result.

Denomination
Presbyterian 34%
Catholic 13%
Methodist 8%
Baptist 15%
Student religious affiliation (unofficial survey 1976-77)
Denomination Percent
Episcopalian 11%
Lutheran 4%
None 7%
Other 8%