April 8, 1977 The Davidsonian

Dissidents, dissent and the USSR
By ERNEST PATTERSON
Faculty Guest Columnist

Everyone is in favor of "human rights." Everyone is also against sin, or at least against anyone enjoying it. The
specific "human right" that is currently getting the most attention in the U.S. is the right to dissent, especially the
right to dissent of Soviet and Eastern European citizens.

There are several facts about dissent and dissidents that are universal in time and space. Every society has "dissidents," "heretics,"
and "subversives." What constitutes "dissidence," "heresy," or "subversion" differs from society to society and from time to time in a
given society. Every society suppresses and punishes its "dissidents," directly or indirectly, openly or subtly. Any person who dissents should
accept such suppression and punishment as an occupational hazard, and understand that the more "dangerous" the dissent is conceived to
be by the "powers that be," the greater are the hazards and the more severe the suppression and punishment.

What specifically constitutes "heresy," "subversion," or "dissidence" for any given society will be determined and defined by the "establishment," the
dominant class, group, or faction. That is to say, though beauty is in the eye of the beholder, heresy is
in the mind of the ruling class, or more accurately, in the minds of the mandarins—Veblen’s Defenders of the Established
Order and Guardians of the Vested Interests who formulate and defend the accepted theories and philosophies of the society.

The only really "dangerous" heresy in the U.S., socialism or communism, is effectively suppressed by the complete cultural hegemony—a concept
developed by the Italian Marxist, Antonio Gramsci—that is exercised by the ideology of capitalism. "Cultural hegemony" refers to that process
by which a cohesive ruling class imposes its values on the society as a whole, through the efforts of the
above-mentioned mandarins, who man—no pun intended—the media and the schools, and is thereby able to induce voluntary acceptance of its
privileged position by the subordinate groups.

The most important factor operating in this area is the "chill factor," produced by the rapidity and certainty with which
college professors, among others, are fired whenever they are identified as active socialists. Any professor who remains a Katheder-sozialist will
experience relatively mild punishment. Ronnie Dugger, in Our Invaded Universities, describes the firing of a University of Texas professor who
had publicly identified himself as a socialist. Dugger records how the chairman of the University Board of Regents used the
American Association of University Professors Statement on Academic Freedom to justify firing the professor. He quotes a colleague of the
fired professor as saying the use of the Statement was "nothing short of brilliant." Dugger, more acutely and accurately observes,
"...It was nothing short of proof that the AAUP concept of academic freedom is putty in the mind of a
sharp lawyer."

It would seem to most serious students of the USSR that Soviet ideology is sufficiently established to exercise cultural hegemony
and that there is little need, beyond the same level of internal spying exercised in the...

Letters to the Editor

Media
To the Editor:

I’ve often felt the urge to write to this newspaper, but until now I’ve always managed to put off any
production of verbiage until after the deadline for the next issue. Why have I finally come through? Because you have
offended me.

Before I go any further, I suppose I should note that this letter is a personal one. In other words,
I’m not writing in my capacity as Media Board member Greg, but as Greg Hopkins, Davidson sophomore, who is also
a member of the Media Board. Yet it is this membership that has indirectly resulted in my taking offense at
something printed in your newspaper.

On the editorial page of your last issue, for the first time in several weeks, I found an editorial that
neither condemned my apathy or competitive spirit, nor incited me to riot. To my dismay, just below I found a
short editorial that seemed to call me a hypocrite, or, at least, purported that I was "poisoned with hypocrisy." I
resent that, both for myself and for the others on the board, whom I respect. Dean Terry, Mr. Lawrimore, and
Dr. Winkler with the Miscellany. Tom is involved, I think, with DCF. Mr. Satterwhite is with the Agence. I am
married, listen to a lot of Belt, am employed by an advertiser, and, like the writers for this paper, have
secret aspirations to overthrow the government.

You are apparently concerned that the three members you mentioned in your editorial will exert undue influence upon the board
in favor of WDAV. Now that I have told you some interests of other board members, maybe we can have
our names mentioned in an editorial as well. After all, I might pressure you into giving my employer reduced rates,
get poems by young Communist poets in the Miscellany, or ask WDAV to play more Dylan and to have Sid
Barrett sing Happy Birthday to my daughter.

The point, as you may have guessed, is that we all have conflicts of interest. In fact, all of the
members...U.S. by the FBI and local police departments, for any vast or wide suppression of dissent in the Soviet Union.
“Dissidents” can be, and are, sustained by the knowledge of the important and necessary role that “dissent” plays in every
society. Alan Barth wrote that “criticism and dissent are the indispensable antidote to major delusions in a society.” Also by
the knowledge that in the long run, though it is listed under “error,” opposite “truth,” by Roget, “heresy” has frequently
become orthodoxy. The importance of “dissent” and “heresy” for the continued good social health of a society is indicated by
an observation of the late Judge Learned Hand. He noted: “Heretics have been hateful from the beginning of recorded time;
they have been ostracized, exiled, tortured, maimed, and butchered; but it has generally proved impossible to smother them; and when
it has not, the society that has succeeded has always declined.” Since it is highly unlikely that the USSR will
follow President Carter’s advice and cease suppressing its heretics, it follows from the above that the USSR will decline. (If
such advice should be followed, and the USSR remains a strong and viable society, Mr. Carter would surely lose his
seat on the Trilateral Commission.) Before the U.S. takes too much comfort from the “inevitable” decline of the USSR, it
should be recalled that, as noted above, dissent and heresy, i.e., socialism, has been effectively eliminated in this country, and
the same logic applies here. But, as Keynes remarked, “In the long run we are all dead,” and this applies
to heretics, who may be, and have been, dead in a shorter run than the average person. Therefore any self-respecting
“dissident” would like to have all the legitimate and effective support possible. The question then becomes, what is the most
legitimate and effective support? As a general rule, support from private individuals is much more effective, and certainly infinitely more
legitimate, than support from governments. It is generally conceded that the least effective support is from government officials of another
society, especially from one whose past behavior gives some cause for believing that said society does not wish complete success
and eternal life for the “dissident’s” society, and such support is not likely to result in full cessation of persecution.
Dr. David Owen, the new British Foreign Secretary, in a recent speech made an important and practical distinction between what
individuals and governments can usefully and properly do in championing human rights. As reported in the Manchester Guardian Weekly, he
noted that “it is quite proper and usually splendid for people to stand up and be counted,” but governments are
required to calculate the varied consequences of their words and deeds and the problems of human rights in the conduct
of international affairs is one of immense complexity and subtlety. A Government’s first task is to provide and sustain the
framework of peace and security within which human rights can be discussed, championed, and enlarged.” Dr. Owen also stressed a
point which has never been understood and accepted by the U.S. public, nor by any leader since FDR, i.e., “that
the objectives of ‘detente’ have never included preventing the emergence and continuance of the USSR as a global power or
to convert the Russians and their allies from Communism.” President Carter is certainly to be commended for his statements in
favor of “human rights,” though one hopes that he does not get carried away and resolve to speak out against
deprivation of “human rights” every time and wherever it occurs. To do so would require constant attention 24 hours a
day, 365 days a year, and 366 days in every Presidential election year, and little time would be left for
preserving and maintaining “the framework of peace and security (economic, not military) within which human rights can be... enlarged.” The
support for “dissidents” that comes from individuals which is both effective and legitimate is that from fellow “dissidents,”—that is, Servetus,
not Calvin; Eugene Debs, not Woodrow Wilson, (who refused even to pardon Debs)—and preferably from “dissidents” of one’s own country.
It follows, then, that the best advice one can give to “dissidents” and “heretics” everywhere is, “Look All-Gift Horses in
the Mouth.”
