May 6, 1977

WDAV awaits Federal grant

Plans for the expansion of radio station WDAV hinge upon the status of the college’s application for a federal grant from the Office of Education, according to Director of News and Photography Earl W. “Buck” Lawrimore.

“We're waiting on the federal grant before we begin any major construction or purchase of equipment,” he said. Lawrimore expects to hear from the government during the summer. Then, if plans for the expansion are indeed approved, the radio station should be in operation with 18,000 watts “sometime during the next school year.”

Last month, TRANSCO Oil Company in Mooresville refused the College permission to use its tower for the WDAV antenna, a privilege seen as an integral part of the boost to high power. Lawrimore is now optimistic that TRANSCO may change its mind and allow WDAV use of the tower.

“We’ve talked with engineers and technical experts who agree that our equipment will not interfere with TRANSCO’s receiving frequency,” said Lawrimore. The company is currently concerned with the weight of the WDAV antenna, according to Lawrimore, but he feels that this difficulty can also be overcome.

Sex-blind admissions committee reports findings

The Committee on Sex-Blind Admissions has completed its survey and reported its findings to the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL). The six-member student committee, considering the consequences of adopting a merit admissions policy at Davidson, distributed a survey to 250 randomly selected students and 118 faculty members and administrators. One hundred and ninety-five students and 56 faculty returned the survey. An overview of the results:

In answer to the question “What percentage of men to women would you prefer,” about half of those surveyed wanted a 50 to 60 percent male enrollment and a female enrollment of 50 to 40 percent. Almost 60 percent were opposed to a sex-blind, merit-based admissions policy, one “with no regard to the male/female ratio.” Forty percent approved of merit admissions. A large majority of those opposed to merit admissions indicated they could accept such a policy if provisions were made to keep the ratio of men above 50 percent. Those favoring merit admissions most believed it would result in a better caliber of students. Opponents to merit admissions often expressed a desire to preserve the tradition of Davidson as a predominantly male college.

Regardless of admissions policy and assuming no overcrowding, 47 percent wanted enrollment to remain at 1300, a bit lower than the present level. Another 47 percent wanted to see an enrollment increase to 1500. Six percent wanted enrollment cut to 1000.

The CCRL decided to send the results of the committee’s survey to College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., and to the Admissions Council, a student-faculty group. The CCRL hopes that Spencer and the Admissions Council will study the work of the committee and make recommendations. The committee plans to make a presentation to the Board of Trustees in their October meeting.

YMCA plans coffeehouse

The YM/YWCA needs two or three people to help organize a coffeehouse and educational program for junior and senior high school students in the Davidson-Cornelius area.

‘75 Quips and Cranks soon to arrive

Director of Alumni Relations Zachary F. Long, Jr. confirmed this week that the1975 Quips and Cranks should arrive at Davidson from the printers by June 1. Long was appointed to finish the '75 yearbook when student editor Carroll Ensley graduated without finishing his assignment. Long has been working since Fall term 1975 to finish the yearbook.

Possible educational programs would provide instruction in crafts, sewing, ecology—almost anything! A coffeehouse on Friday or Saturday nights would feature good music, munchies, local talent, and friends. If you're interested in working with young people and have some time and energy, contact these people by May 11:

Jay Silver [-4096] R110
Marcee Morris B404
Rush Otey [-5641] DCPC

PIRG lobbies for bottle bill
By JOHN HEDRICK

Several Davidson students traveled to a public legislative hearing held Wednesday at the North Carolina General Assembly. Discussed at the hearing was House Bill 697, which provides for substitution of returnable for non-returnable beverage containers, a scrapping of the pop-tops and ring binders, and a five-cent minimum refundable deposit on all beverage containers.

RALEIGH—A spokesman for the bottling industry admitted that the proponents’ arguments for House Bill 697 are valid, though he attempted to downplay their significance. An environmentalist conceded that there are many social costs. The hearings were held in the Legislative Auditorium before a packed crowd of observers. Even though the speakers were split equally between the two sides, there was no doubt from the first speech that the crowd strongly favored passage of the bill. Both sides came fully prepared with their legal views and emotional appeals. Since this issue appeared in North Carolina in 1975, there has not been much room for compromise.

The Citizens for Returnable Beverage Containers, a coalition containing consumer, environmental, farmer, civic, and public interest groups, was opposed by representatives from the canning, bottling, and retailing industries as well as organized labor. The coalition favored the bill as a means to promote resource recovery, solid waste reduction, less litter, more jobs, energy conservation, and less cost to the consumer. Opponents countered with a variety of statements that the bill wasn’t needed, that it was the wrong solution, and that its scope wasn’t wide enough.

After the hearing, Peter Brown, Director of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG), said that the discussion in the hearing is just the beginning: “At this time letter-writing is especially crucial if we are to achieve the bill’s passage. Legislators do notice their mail more than other forms of communication, do pay attention to it, and feel an obligation to respond to it, especially if the letter writers are from their district. It does make a difference.”

In the afternoon Davidson students went to all the Charlotte-Mecklenburg representatives and found that they were generally favorable but still hadn’t studied the bill closely for their final decision. Earlier in the week between 90 and 100 letters from students and professors were sent to H. Parks Helms, chairman of the committee, urging passage of the bill.

RON, VIC, AND RANDY FROM YOUR CAMPUS DINING SERVICE WISH ALL THE STUDENTS AND FACULTY THAT WE HAVE BEEN PRIVILEGED TO KNOW AND SERVE A VERY HAPPY AND SAFE SUMMER. WE ARE VERY MUCH LOOKING FORWARD TO SERVING YOU AGAIN NEXT YEAR. ANY STUDENTS WISHING PART-TIME JOBS OR TO WORK ON BANQUETS PLEASE CONTACT RON OR VIC AT EXT. 348 OR 892-4781 OR RICHARDS HOUSE.