Pao Ie The Davidsonian

THE MAN who analyzed Dr. Erich Wruck’s handwriting was “so doggone right, it was almost embarrassing.” [Greg Strader]

Partners supply pre-exam release

Claiming to do “whatever it takes to make a song work,” the four-member group Silent Partner will be doing just
that in the 900 Room this weekend. The production of their music, which rings of Crosby, Stills, Nash, and Young,
is a total one. Each member writes, sings, plays at least two instruments, and helps with the arrangement of the
music. They have been well received at such establishments as the Bistro in Atlanta, Cat’s Cradle in Chapel Hill, and
Myskyn’s in Charleston. Performances will be held Thursday and Friday nights at 9:30 and 11:00. An additional performance will be
given at 4:30 on Saturday afternoon beside Richardson dormitory.

By NANCY McNAIR
Features Editor

Dr. Erich Wruck wonders why more Americans do not use graphology and lend credence to its conclusions. “I didn’t take
it seriously like Americans, but once you see an expert, it is amazing what you can see in your handwriting.
It is almost like going to see a psychiatrist.”

In Europe, handwriting analysis is used not only for the detection of forgeries but also for employment purposes, particularly in
the hiring of managerial and executive personnel. Wruck, a self-avowed non-humanist, recognizes that all people are sinners; however, a large
corporation will look at “not whether the applicant is a sinner, but how well he controls his sins.” Thus in
Europe, when one is asked to submit a handwritten curriculum vitae when applying for a position, one may surmise that
the application will be evaluated by a graphologist. The corporation will not act solely on the basis of a recommendation,
said Wruck, “because someone might just want to get rid of him.” The graphologist can even detect whether the applicant
is trying to make a good impression with his application.

Training in graphology, up to the Ph.D. level, is available in Germany. But not everyone can do graphology, concedes Wruck.
“It takes talent that you either have or don’t have.” The graphologist must put himself in the shoes of the
letter writer. “He must almost start perspiring as that person did when he wrote it.” Klages, a Munich graphologist, even
used the art to diagnose disease. He saw disease as a matter of the mind and not the body; therefore,
the written expression would reveal such mental breaks.

Wruck was exposed to graphological techniques in the 50s when he translated German graphological texts for a professor of handwriting
analysis at the New School in New York. Aside from teaching graphology and consulting court cases, the graphologist verifies signatures
on college board tests. The man’s evaluation of Wruck’s handwriting proved “so doggone right, it was almost embarrassing,” chuckled Wruck.

Although admittedly not an expert graphologist, Wruck agreed to point out some of the salient characteristics that the analyst observes.
The graphologist prefers to draw his analyses from a letter written with a fountain pen on unlined paper. He would
also like to know the age and sex of the writer, and whether the writer is left or right-handed. Wruck
noted that printing, rather than writing in script, is usually considered a sign of weakness. “This person hasn’t left his
Palmer-script days.” The amount of margin left about the page is indicative of the person’s aesthetic tendencies. If the lines
have a tendency to droop toward the bottom of the page, the person is probably a pessimist, whereas lines slanting
up the page indicate optimism. On one sample, Wruck noted the broadness and length of the portions of the g’s
extending below the line. “If this person were a boy, I would be concerned about my daughter,” he said. The
loops below the line, as in lower case f’s, g’s, and p’s, are indicative of the sensual aspect of the
individual, whereas the loops of letters above the line, such as l, reveal something about the materialistic tendencies of individuals.

Slumber party slated for Friday

By ESTHER BRUCE
Staff Writer

“We are a completely unstructured group of nuts devoted to mischief, magic, and madness,” said Emilie Bryan. Bryan, organizer...of the
Uncommitted Committee, a conglomeration of free spirits different from any other Union committee in its total lack of structure, talks
with enthusiasm about the group. The members feel that this freedom contributes to the creativity they desire. So far this
year the Uncommitted Committee has been responsible for several events ranging from anonymous stunts and a Homecoming Rendezvous service to
the recent marshmallow roast. Many students studying in the library on the night of the roast witnessed a committee caper
when someone ran through the building in hot pursuit of a giant marshmallow. This served not only to get a
turnout for the marshmallow roast itself, but also to brighten the atmosphere in the library. This “mood-setting” is the purpose
of the committee.

A major Uncommitted Committee event is coming up tomorrow night. They have planned a slumber party to be held in
the Morrison Room of the Union. The crazy escapade will begin at midnight...the witching hour. They will have a myriad
of games and activities and will serve refreshments such as hot chocolate, popcorn, and perhaps homemade cookies. Those who attend
may also watch TV in the downstairs room or the video tapes which the committee hopes to get. Seances and
levitations are among the many activities planned. They may do such things as tell ghost stories, give back massages, and
play “spin the bottle.” Students who come should bring a sleeping bag, a pillow, and any records they want.

Although many of their projects, such as this slumber party, are planned and announced in advance, that is not always
the case. Bryan explains, “We want to make the Union a place where people will go to see what is
happening, rather than go to because there is a planned event.” While they get the small funds needed for their
antics from the Union President’s contingency fund, they are not an official Union committee. This is how the members want
it. “We want to maintain complete flexibility and spontaneity to carry out many little, uncostly activities that will bring a
smile to people’s lips or a chuckle to their silence.” On one occasion they promised a ticket to the first
person who could sing the Alma Mater. Although no one could do this, a girl stood on her chair and
sang Row, Row, Row Your Boat to win the prize. Each time they pull one of these surprises, they have
left the people laughing. This is what they are seeking. “Atmosphere,” says Bryan, “a warm, crazy, people-oriented one, is our
goal.”

Nervousness of some degree may be detected in how well the subject stays on the line. Oversized capital letters reveal
superiority complexes. Wruck finds the capital letter I especially revealing. Horizontal marks such as the lines crossing t’s are indicative
of drive or motivation. Smoothly curved m’s and n’s are characteristic of people who are not outgoing, and who are
withholding from their environment. Conversely, jerky, peaked ones show a more outgoing, extroverted tendency. However, the graphologist is not infallible.
From one sample he gathered the impression that the writer was obese. In actuality, she was a lithe, slender Freshman.
“Some even say that you can see intelligence by how the person's handwriting differs from the taught pattern,” said Wruck.
A great deal of creativity would produce a style greatly different from second grade, triple dotted line cursive. “You should
never analyze your relative’s handwriting. You lose your objectivity,” Wruck said.

Wruck’s chief concern about graphology is that Americans recognize it as a valid source of information about an individual when
performed by a competent graphologist. “The Americans have this trait of committing themselves in black and white. They would rather
say something over the phone, because a letter is evidence, a phone call is not.” The interest is obviously here;
over the years Wruck has loaned his graphology texts to students, and none have found their way back to his
office shelves.

1978 Calendars
The gift that lasts all year!
