The Davidsonian

Tuition deposit fee doubles

By EMILY MASON Staff Writer and PHILIP DUNCAN News Editor

Davidson College has raised its tuition deposit fee, due April 1, from $100 to $200. The $200 deposit is partially refundable—that is, students who pay the fee, then decide not to return to Davidson in the fall, will receive $100 back if they inform the college of their decision by August 1.

“In the past, if a student was sure he would be back in the fall, he’d make the $100 deposit anyway,” said Director of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White, who proposed the larger refundable deposit. “Many of those who were undecided about their plans would never tell the college if they did decide not to come back, or they would tell us just before school started,” White explained. “When the college is not certain until school starts exactly how many students are returning, it is difficult to hire professors.”

[Continued from page 1]

David Rice will teach history and humanities next year. Rice received his BA from Boston College in 1966, his MA and Ph.D. from Yale. He is presently teaching at Williams College. Rice’s specialty is ancient history. He has had several articles and papers published, among them “Agesilaus, Agesipolis and Spartan Politics, 386-379 B.C.,” “Diodorus, Xenophon and the Year 379/8 B.C.: Reconstruction and Re-appraisal,” and “Some Remarks on the Trial of Timotheus.” He also has two books in progress: Sources for Greek Religion, From Lysander to Alexander: Greek Politics and Policy in the Fourth Century B.C.

A member of the Davidson class of 1968, Robert Myers will be the new Sociology teacher. Myers did his graduate study at UNC where he earned his Ph.D. Myers, who specializes in anthropology, has the following papers in preparation: “Cleft Lip and Cleft Palate in NC: Interracial Incidence and Possible Increase,” “Ecological and Ethnohistorical Explanations: The Case for Dominica’s Caribs,” “West Indian Migration as a Rite of Passage,” “Dominican Migration in the Late 19th Century,” and Dominica: A Comprehensive Bibliography of the FCC.

[Continued from page 1]

FCC delays approval

“...us for the right to rebroadcast,” Lawrimore explained. “I don’t know at this point how many dollars any of these can bring in, but I don’t think it’s unreasonable to assume that we can raise enough for the $28,000 operating budget.”

The WDAV Board of Directors is holding meetings to discuss Lawrimore’s proposal and other plans for the station. “We held a meeting last Thursday to discuss programming,” Lawrimore said. “Projections now are for classical music from mid-afternoon to mid-evening—about four to ten pm, but that hasn’t been decided yet.

“The Board agreed that we will have to get on the air and make ourselves known before we can get a reliable reading on what people want. The Board will continue to have meetings to discuss more definite staffing, and to set down more specific objectives and purposes.”

Lawrimore commented on the role of the Media Board—the body set up by the Trustees as an overseer of the student media—in determining the plans for the radio station. “The radio station will require so much attention and thought that it...needs its own board (at this time). “When things are running smoothly, the Media Board could be expanded to include the radio station. If the Media Board had to tackle all the radio station's problems now, it might never get anything else done," Lawrimore said.

Island and its People. The psychology department still has two vacancies to fill, one in abnormal psychology and one in cognitive experimental and human learning. No decision has been made as yet, according to Dr. Jay Ostwalt. Overall there has been very little student participation in the selection of the new professors. A few informal meetings were the extent of it. Holland reasoned that students should not be allowed to see the letters of recommendation. Purcell added that the candidates were not asked to teach any classes because, “The college professor is above student teaching.”

achieve maximum enrollment with all dorms filled. “In effect,” said White, “we are offering (the student) a $100 incentive to inform us of his plans by August 1.” By learning early of a student’s intention not to return, White says he can accept applicants from the waiting list for entry to the freshman class. White acknowledged that raising the fee substantially only two weeks before it is due might work a hardship on some families. “I’ve talked about this plan with students, Dean Terry, and other administrators since October,” explained White, “but there were always other decisions that were more pressing.” “I guess it’s my fault because I didn’t push for it,” he admitted. “Anytime you can give people more warning you have an improved situation. If we could have announced this (increase) in October, it would have been better.” White indicated that past policy of his department has been to consider hardship cases on an individual basis. “If somebody had a serious problem coming up with the extra $100 right now—such as those on full financial aid—this office would be willing to listen to a request for an extension on the payment,” White said.

BICYCLE REGISTRATION by the Security Committee March 24 and 25 at the flagpole

We have just received a shipment of frames especially suited for framing all your favorite photos and snapshots:
* 3½ x 3½ Cubes
* 14 x 14 Collages
* 15 x 20 Collages
* 8 x 10 Multi-purpose

Stuart Scholars arrive Sunday
The Stuart Scholars will be on campus Sunday and Monday. If you have the chance, extend them a warm welcome.

...in time for the sunny seasons.
$1
$12
$15
$3

DECORATORS
Visit our custom framing department for fine prints, limited editions, and bright new decorator ideas.
* 1½ x 1½ School photo size stock
* Also exciting singles, doubles, triples, traps, box and total frames in store

“A WORLD OF GIFTS"
THE VILLAGE STORE

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners
Esther L. Bruce—Salisbury, N.C.
John M. Butler—Lumberton, N.C.
Murray B. Craven, III—Charlotte, N.C.
Linda D. Dulin—Charlotte, N.C.
Julia L. Eichelberger—Asheville, N.C.
Karen S. Fischler—Morehead City, N.C.
Renee L. Hedgepath—Jacksonville, Fla.
Linda L. Hoopes—Clearwater, Fla.
Diana P. Pierce—Gainesville, Fla.
Mark C. Thomas—Tarpon Springs, Fla.
David H. Waddill—Winston-Salem, N.C.

Custom Framing, Prints, Posters, Graphics, Limited Editions
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
(704) 892-1380