Four up for Watsons Committee chooses nominees By AMANDA HALL Managing Editor

Eleanor Marsh, Joe Craig, Jeff Metzel, and Don Richter received nominations for Watson Fellowships last week. The students will present
their projects to the Watson Fellowship Foundation representative, Dr. John C. Elder, on January 11 for the final determination of
Fellows. The Fellows, chosen from 50 schools across the nation, will travel abroad.

Marsh’s proposal is “to study the emergence of women politically and economically in Spain and Colombia.” She plans to approach
the study through interviews with women and men, and through a study of the existing legal structure in both countries.
She will also study the different types of jobs women hold at present compared to the past. Marsh chose to
study Spain and Colombia because both have a background in the Hispanic culture, but women’s position in society differs.

Craig plans a “study of current racial tension in Western Europe,” specifically in Great Britain, France, the Netherlands, and Sweden.
In each of these countries, tensions exist between the established majority and an incoming minority. He will not focus on
specific events as much as underlying causes, and will “delve into the philosophies of racism and prejudices” in each country.
As sources, Craig will talk with the people on the streets, governmental officials, professors, and the leaders of the different
races. “I think I could do a series of newspaper articles (on the topic),” he said.

The Fellows each receive $7,000 if they are single and $9,500 if they are married for a postgraduate year of
independent study and travel.

Vol. LXVII, No. NINE By CATHERINE LANDIS Editor

The Dana Foundation has approved a challenge grant of $200,000 toward the cost of renovation of the Martin Science Building.
This grant pushes the existing funds for the renovation to $415,000, over half of the $800,000 needed to begin construction.
The College must raise the additional $400,000 by October 1978 in order to meet the foundation’s challenge.

Vice President for Development Duane Dittman feels if the college makes significant progress by January 1, 1978, such as another
$200,000 gift, renovation could begin this spring. He reports the architectural plans are already in motion in hopes that swift
progress will ensue. Plans for moving the chemical storage crew outside the building in accordance with safety regulations will begin
in January. Dittman hopes building renovation can begin by April and end in six months.

“We have good prospects. We’re certainly going to work hard on it,” says Dittman. He is pleased with the progress
made thus far. He says, “In my brief tenure at Davidson this is one of the most exciting things to
happen: a foundation pressured by every college in the country to give so much to Davidson.” Dittman is quick to
acknowledge the work of Professor of Chemistry J.N. Burnett, who drew up the proposal presented to the foundation. “It’s one
of the most professional I’ve seen,” says Dittman.

The $800,000 goal for October 1978 completes only one phase of the entire renovation plan. Phase I deals with Martin
Science Building renovation and stockroom addition, including a move of the chemical stock and storage rooms from the basement to
a new wing and freeing space for lab rooms for two new biochemistry courses. Heating, electrical, and plumbing systems will
also be updated.Subject)—I think that could be Dana grants matching funds for renovation. Facilities will be upgraded. New air conditioning,
laboratory furniture, and permanent equipment will be added. An adjacent elevator and a new 50-seat classroom are also planned for
Phase I. Phase II, with an estimated cost of 594,000 dollars, will include the construction of a new exterior wing
and the completion of the ground floor, which will include an 80-seat lecture hall, five classrooms, and restrooms. The old
lecture room will be divided into two classrooms. Phase III will see the completion of eight faculty offices, a conference
room, and a multi-purpose room for the mathematics department on the first floor. The second floor will hold [See DANA,
page 3.]

Untenured faculty both challenging and realistic,” he said. Metzell plans to study “intra-African transportation systems and their effects on development.”
He will focus on three systems: the East [See NOMINEES, page 3]

THE MARTIN Science Building will be renovated in three phases. [Hunter Jennings]

Dissatisfied. Uncertainty pervades Chambers

By LYMAN COLLINS, MEREDITH DEAN, CATHERINE LANDIS

“When I came here, I thought Davidson was one of the institutions moving in a progressive direction but now I’m
having some questions raised in my mind.” This statement from an untenured professor seems to characterize the prevailing mood expressed
by his untenured colleagues here at Davidson. These feelings of uncertainty center around the College’s policy of awarding tenure, the
non-resolution of the Christian Tenure Controversy, and inter-faculty relations.

In a speech to the College Community on September 12, College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. addressed the problem of
tenure. “Especially in a faculty as small as ours, we cannot afford to give tenure to anyone who is less
than outstanding.” This statement has stirred considerable anxiety among the untenured faculty as to what standards will be applied to
ensure an outstanding faculty. As one professor said, “I’ve heard rumors that the tenure policy will change but I’ve heard
nothing directly. I have assurances from Dr. Spencer that there will be no tenure quotas.”

The term “tenure quotas” refers to a policy adopted by some colleges limiting the number of tenured professors in each
department. At present, Davidson’s faculty is about seventy-five percent tenured and there is a concern with maintaining fluidity in the
faculty. A couple of professors advocated doing away with tenure altogether and replacing it with long-term contracts subject to evaluations
as well as renewal.

Also, the manner of granting tenure in the past has been criticized. “The present policy is fine, but in the
past people have stayed here long enough and just sort of floated into tenure. Now we’re willing to be given
tenure or not given it according to our abilities. We don’t want to become creatures of percentages.”

Another professor added, “I fear a new day in faculty evaluations. Zimmerman may give us a hatchet job. It’s sort
of like they think people have gotten things they didn’t deserve and now we’re going to get tough. People don’t
know what that means! With the job market, we’re really scared.”

Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann, a tenured member of the History Department, attempted to lay some of these rumors to
rest. “The College has had no enunciated policy of limiting the people we tenure and I don’t anticipate initiating such
a policy. I can guarantee that we will be [See FACULTY, page 2]
