---

The Davidsonian

September 30, 1977

Tough pair leads Lehigh

By PAUL BANTA
Sports Columnist

When the Lehigh Engineers roll into town Saturday, they will be bringing with them one of the best big play
combinations the Wildcats have seen in quite a while.

Lehigh’s duo of quarterback Mike Rieker and split end Steve Kreider are the pride and joy of coach John Whitehead’s
offense. Both are Division I level players in Division II.

The strong-armed Rieker, in three games, has passed for 714 yards by completing an amazing 37 of 56. Three of
those aerials were taken by the fleet-footed Kreider for Engineer scores, the shortest of which was a modest 57 yards.

Last week against Penn, Kreider also crossed the goal line by returning a punt 58 yards for a touchdown.

All in all, it sounds like the Davidson secondary could be in for a long afternoon.

But don’t underestimate the capabilities of the Wildcat defensive backfield. They are aware of the challenge of Rieker to Kreider.

Through three games, the Davidson secondary has been sporadic at best. The overall statistics aren’t bad. The Wildcats’ foes are
only averaging 120 yards per game and have completed less than half of their passes.

But there have been costly breakdowns. A few lapses last week helped Bucknell to jump to a big lead. After
the middle of the second quarter though, the Bisons were not successful on another toss.

No one knows why the secondary has had problems better than safety Phil Gilbert. The lanky sophomore, who plays like
he is a charter member of the Jack Tatum-George Atkinson fan club, is the secondary’s leader on the field.

“We've been trying to outguess the opponents,” Gilbert explains. “Last week, we didn’t read the keys on two or three
plays so men were wide open. It’s not that we have bad athletes, we just have to concentrate better. We
have to stop making mental mistakes."

Both Gilbert and Thompson see the Lehigh game as the chance for the secondary to prove itself. It will be
hard, especially without cornerback Virgil Fludd who is out for the year after a knee injury against Bucknell, but both
are confident it can be done.

“I think it will be different this week,” Gilbert predicted. “I like for other teams to throw. It’s my job
to stop the pass. It puts more pressure on me and makes me more alert.”

“I think we can be pretty good,” Thompson offered. “It will be a chance for us to rise and play
it right.”

On the national level, Michigan coach Bo Schembechler told anyone who would listen that his Wolverines were not the best
team in the nation when they were voted to the top of the national polls several weeks ago. Bo was
right.

After two lackluster performances in wins over Duke and Navy, Michigan has slipped to a more accurate third. With fifth-rated
Texas A&M coming to town this week, the Wolverines may find themselves much lower in the polls next week.

A&M has the distinction of having the biggest fullback in the nation in junior George Woodard. Woodard, a 1000-yard rusher
last year, in uniform weighs a little over 280 pounds. When he started his college career he was only a
modest 240.

Aggie coach Emory Bellard, when asked how big Woodard is, is fond of saying, “He's bigger than when he was
born and smaller than King Kong.” One would think Bellard could come up with something better than that.

RUGGERS CLAMMER for the ball in an exciting performance for an ever-growing crowd. [Gregg Strader]

Club Sports

Players demand support

By KEVIN ROBBINS
Staff Writer

For those of you who kept yourselves locked up with E.H. Little over the weekend, those huge crowds swarming the
fields of athletic endeavor were not simply a mass population phenomenon. The Rugby and Football Clubs both were at home
on Sunday, and the blue balmy skies both bolstered our forces and brought out the fans.

Guys just couldn’t play sports without their athletic supporters.

The Rugby Club, playing as if they still thought it was Saturday night, ran roughshod over the Rugger Mugger Monks
of Belmont Abbey.

“Tries” were scored by Rich Rey, alertly pouncing on a loose ball in Abbey’s end zone, and by Wilborne Swaim,
whose fleetness of foot and breakaway ability resulted in two Davidson scores. Mike Garfinkel got his kicks from making two
out of three conversion attempts plus a penalty kick. No Monks were converted during the Crusade.

The Cat Clubbers were the rougher ruggers as they clubbed and drubbed the Monks bananas for a 19-4 score.

Reliable sideline sources claim that the Abbey fans highly deserved the loss for their obnoxious behavior; perhaps they were looking
past Davidson while pondering their own alcohol input vs. absorption problem. The Ruggers are home again October 9 at 2
pm.

On the other side of the coin, the Football Club played a strong game but were still flipped by a
tough Appalachian State squad, 9-0.

Ascending great heights to battle the Mountaineers, who were playing in their third game while Davidson opened its season, the
Club Cats’ defense effectively bottled the Apps on the ground, yielding scores only on a safety and when App State
uncorked a long touchdown pass.

A loss is a loss is a loss, but with a good opening game showing against a team that tied
highly-touted N.C. State, optimism abounds for the remainder of the Davidson season.

The Club Gridders travel to Winston-Salem next week for a game with WFU.
