The Davidsonian

Revise Self-selection

By BILL BARNETT
Editorial Page Coeditor

At last week’s Interfraternity Council meeting, an interesting proposal was brought up. On the surface, it would seem to benefit only the national fraternities; however, careful consideration of the proposal will reveal that it might be just the right solution to cure the divisiveness in the Davidson social system.

The proposal calls for several changes in the self-selection system. It would allow the national fraternities, as well as any eating house, to give bids to freshmen, thereby inviting them to become members in that house. This may sound like a return to the exclusiveness of the old rush-bid fraternity system, but it’s not because there is a Catch-22 written into this proposal. The catch is the second part of the proposal which says that bids can only be extended to those freshmen who have self-selected into the bid system.

The new procedure, as put forth in the proposal, would be as follows. First, all of the houses on campus would have the same informal rush system which is in effect now. There would be open houses and parties until Christmas, and students would be invited to eat at the various houses all through winter term. Then, about Jan. 15, the freshmen would choose one of two options open to them. They would either join the bid system or stay in the self-selection process. At this point, the fraternities would have a two-week period to extend bids to the freshmen who had signed up with the bid system. At the end of these two weeks, about Feb. 1, the bid process would be over, and all of the students remaining on the bid list would revert back to the self-selection process. The self-selection process would then be used to fill out the remaining places in both fraternities and eating houses.

The many merits of this system are obvious. First, it wouldn’t force any freshmen into the bid system unless they wanted to be in it. Second, it would give the fraternities a chance to have some authority over who enters their organizations. Not absolute control, but merely some authority. These people, for the most part, are proud of their houses and the people in them. Thus, it seems only fair to let them have some authority over who should join a house which the brothers have spent a lot of time and money developing. Third, no house would have to take part in the bid process. If the eating houses, or the fraternities, are happy with the self-selection system, then they need not even bother with the bid process.

The best part of the proposal, though, is that it would clarify the whole self-selection mess. Instead of whispered “encouragements” and “discouragements” which leave the freshmen confused and disheartened, the whole process would be done out in the open with a strong set of rules. Everyone would know exactly where they stood.

When the Council on Campus and Religious Life begins its review of the self-selection process, I hope it will remember this proposal. Diversity without division and hard feelings is a hard thing to accomplish, but this proposal would certainly be a giant step towards that goal.

Letters to the Editor

Erwin article Superficial, putrid, bad

To the Editor:

As members of the Senate Course Evaluation Committee, we were dismayed last week to discover the headline in The Davidsonian reading “Return on Evaluations Disappointing: Students Fail to Assess Courses.” We were disturbed at the conclusions left by the reporter, Charles Erwin, in the mind of the reader. He first makes several misleading statements, then, as a result of his superficial investigation of the facts, his interpretation distorts both the goals and the present state of the SGA course evaluation effort.

First, students did not “fail” to assess courses. Mr. Erwin fails in the sense that he does not adequately qualify his headline. The fact is that for both fall and winter terms, our committee had roughly a 33 percent response on course evaluations. Admittedly, we had hoped for a higher percentage of responses the second time around, but the fact that the response was almost equal for both fall and winter term evaluations certainly does not constitute a “failure,” mean that the course evaluation results were “totally meaningless” or place the future of the course evaluation program “in jeopardy.” The conclusion to be drawn from this data is that the system of distribution of the questionnaires needs to be streamlined and made more efficient. The fact that there was a “low rate of return” cannot be attributed solely to a lack of student interest. If the committee sees any area of “failure,” it is in the limitations of the present system which is wholly dependent on student efforts.

Second, Thom Young is not the personin charge of SGA course evaluation, as the article implies. That is obviously not his job. There exists an active committee of the senate (made up of five persons: Jim Clark, Dana English, Ste Haynes, David Tinkler, and Ralph Yeilding) which is given the responsibility of overseeing the distribution, collection, and analysis of course evaluation material and which understands more fully the specifics of the course evaluation effort. We are disappointed that Mr. Erwin didn’t think it necessary to seek out the committee’s viewpoint on the issue.

Third, and most important, the reporter confuses the goals of the Senate Course Evaluation Committee with the goals of the Professional Affairs Committee. The immediate goal of the senate committee’s work is to publish a course evaluation handbook to aid students in the selection of their courses. Along with this goal, we hope to provide the faculty with feedback on how students perceive their professors’ effectiveness in teaching a particular course. On the other hand, the PAC is concerned with the use of student course evaluations for administrative purposes in relation to faculty tenure, salary increases, etc. (among other things.) This is an entirely different issue. Mr. Erwin fails to make a distinction between these two different uses of student evaluations and the result is a misrepresentation of both committees' positions. In the future, we hope Mr. Erwin will be more thorough and responsible in his journalistic endeavors. For the present, we hope that we have been able to clarify the nature of the senate course evaluation committee’s work.

Dana English ’77
Ralph Yeilding ’79
Davidson College

Note: The results for winter term courses will be available by Wednesday, April 20. The committee has acted upon the criticism of its last evaluation and has worked to make these results as accurate as possible.

COURSE EVALUATION

WDAV’s future??
DAVIDSON STUDENTS SPEAK

ACADEMIC V.P. FOR STUDENT
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Editorial Editor

Can the college administration justify spending a considerable amount of money to expand radio station WDAV? Yes, according to Buck Lawrimore, Executive Director of WDAV and key figure behind plans to expand WDAV to 18,000 watts, because “we expect the radio station will bring money to the college.” He told me that in February, President Spencer and other proponents of the station agreed with Lawrimore. I pondered the proponents' rationale: By investing in a radio station, we send money in order to get money. We spend x dollars on the radio station, and the public relations benefit of the station stimulates contributions, bringing us the original x dollars plus more money that could be used in all areas of the college’s development program.

After three months and numerous interviews with Lawrimore, President Spencer, Director for Development Dittman, and student staffers of WDAV, I have found no one with facts and figures to back up the assertion that an expanded WDAV will bring in more money than it spends. I have come to fear that the proponents are considering operating the station at a financial loss in exchange for some nebulous “image improvement.”

Let us first consider how much the radio station will cost the college. Lawrimore drew up a proposal explaining the tentative plans to upgrade WDAV and outlined a tentative budget. Its main points: The transmitter and antenna system will cost $52,000—this is essential to get on the air with high power. $21,000 will go for improvements in the studio, considerable improvements in classical records and tapes, testing equipment, miscellaneous electronic parts, and maintenance equipment. Cost of automated equipment—a computer/tape deck system which can store enough programs to operate a station largely unattended for about three days—would be $36,000. Next, the yearly operating budget—$28,000. That figure includes $18,000 for salaries for a part-time program coordinator, a part-time broadcast engineer, and a part-time secretary, as well as salaries for students who stay on to broadcast during holidays and summer months. General operating expenses were listed at $10,000.

Lawrimore has since scaled down this “improvements” figure to $5,000-$20,000. To determine how much should be spent over $52,000, he will undertake “a careful evaluation of existing equipment in the light of whether or not it meets the high quality level we want for the high power station.” The amount expended on “improvements” will also depend on available funds. He has also scaled the general operating expenses down to about $7,000 and the total yearly operating budget to $25,000. Let’s add the figures up to go to high power. $52,000 is a “sine qua non.” But will that be all required to get us on the air?

[see WDAV, page 7]

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.