Court Approves Dramatic Reforms
By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

The Patterson Court Council this week passed two self-selection reform proposals in a first step toward a dramatic reorganization of
Davidson’s social structure. Greg Anders’ proposal, giving the national fraternities on Patterson Court the right to issue formal written bids,
was passed in a controversial vote Sunday night. The vote was twelve “yes,” seven “no” and one abstention with SAE,
Phi Delts, KA, Rusk, and ETC issuing two votes each in favor, F&M, Emanon, and ATO unanimously against. PAX split
their vote, one in favor and one against, while PIKA voted one “yes” and abstained in their second vote.

PCC Wednesday night also passed a proposal submitted by Bruce Brown and Tim Wilkins of F&M which deals specifically with
reform of the self-selection system applicable only to the eating houses. Those two proposals will be sent to the sub-committee
on Campus and Religious Life for further action.

In other actions, three proposals, including a computerization system, a combination bid/self-selection system applicable to all houses, and a lottery
system of self-selection, were soundly defeated by the Council.

The Anders’ proposal, in its final amended version, establishes a separate bid system applicable only to national fraternities on the
Court. Specifically, social functions of all houses would be open throughout fall term. During the second week of winter term,
students would choose in which system they would like to participate, either bid or self-select. This coincides with the issuance
of Fiji bids and would allow future Fiji pledges the option of self-selection. Formal rush by each fraternity would then
commence, culminating in bids being delivered sometime before the self-selection process. Freshmen who entered the bid system but failed to
win a bid would then fall behind the self-select people in choosing an eating house. Any spaces in national fraternities
not filled by bids will then be filled through the normal self-selection process. To guarantee full use of all facilities
and to help alleviate overcrowding, each house must specify a minimum number of freshmen to be taken in before the
end of fall term.

F&M’s proposal for self-selection would keep it very similar to the way it functions now. The number of people in
early random now would be limited to a maximum of five. To avoid last-minute encouragement or harassment, non-position individuals would
sit at each house’s table to put the student’s name on the final sign-up sheet. House members could remain in
Love Auditorium for further questions or problems.

Immediate controversy engulfed the pro-Anders proposal vote. Russ Martin, Treasurer of Emanon, typified the opinion of the houses opposed: “The
vote of 12 to 7 with one abstention is not representative of the entire Patterson Court at all. It’s simply
a poll of twenty people.” The controversy revolved around three questionable “yes” votes, two by ETC and one by PAX.
These houses charged that their representatives at the meeting did not express the majority opinion of that house. The Council
decided that it would allow each house to submit to the Council a position paper, expressing the majority will of
that house. These papers, along with one summary pro-position and one summary con-position, would be sent with the proposal to
the sub-committee for further evaluation. The vote remained 19-95%.

The deadline for action for the sub-committee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life is October 1977. One member
expressed little hope for actions before the end of this academic year. Kathryn Bridges, PCC President, felt that all parties
can be represented. “I hope anyone unhappy with the Anders’ proposal will be pleased that dissenting opinions will also go
before the sub-committee. The court is split, and all opinions will be fairly represented. The issue is not dead and
I encourage any student with other proposals to submit them to the PCC for consideration.”

Convocation Boycott in Protest
Vol. LXVI, No. TWENTY-THREE
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Spencer Rescinds Job Offer from Jewish Professor
By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor and KARL GOODHOUSE
Guest Writer

A prospective faculty member’s invitation to join the faculty was rescinded by College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., because the
professor, a member...of the Jewish religion, indicated his objections to the college’s policy of hiring based on such non-academic standards
as Christian commitment.

Protest boycott
In response, students and faculty plan to boycott Friday’s Convocation exercises. After reviewing 190 applications, the political science department invited
two candidates to Davidson to be interviewed by both students and faculty. The department unanimously chose Dr. Ronald Linden, a
professor from Swarthmore College, and recommended Linden to Spencer who then interviewed him.

Informed of tenure policy
Spencer informed Linden about the Christian tenure policy in the By-Laws of the College Constitution. Linden had not previously been
aware of the policy before his interview with Spencer.

Linden offered job
Spencer offered Linden the job because, as Dr. Proctor, chairman of the political science department, stated, “His credentials were quite
impressive. He has a Ph.D. from Princeton University. His training was suited for the courses we needed him to teach,
specifically international and Soviet policy.” Proctor added, “He seems to have the sort of personality which would have made him
a productive teacher and an excellent scholar.”

Spencer’s letter included a paragraph expressing his concern as to whether or not Linden would be willing to teach at
a school with a strong Christian commitment. He wrote that Linden should not accept the job unless he genuinely wished
to uphold and support college policy. This wording appears in all letters from the college offering employment.

Job offer accepted
Linden accepted the job offer. At the same time, he turned down job offers at other schools. In his letter
to Spencer, however, he stated his objections to the college’s hiring and firing policies. Spencer interpreted the objections as initial
acceptance in the first of Linden’s letters.

According to the Constitutional By-Laws, “The President shall be responsible to the Trustees for being certain that each person employed
as a member of faculty and staff, at the time of his or her appointment, is fully aware of and
supports the purpose of the college as set forth in the Davidson College Constitution, and is prepared conscientiously to uphold
and seek to increase its effectiveness as a church-related college.”

“No contract reached”
Because of Linden’s response, Spencer was unsure of Linden’s support of the Constitution. He conferred with Trustee and lawyer Larry
Daggenhart who ruled that no contract had been reached. Daggenhart then advised Spencer to withdraw his offer to Linden.

Job offer withdrawn
Spencer informed Proctor of his decision after speaking to Daggenhart, but before sending the withdrawal to Linden. The political science
department will now go back to the original applications and invite the next qualified candidate to Davidson for an interview.

College Union
COLLEGE PRESIDENT SAMUEL R. SPENCER JR. has rescinded the job offer of a Jewish professor who expressed his doubts about
the Christian tenure policy.

Study in India offered
Director of South Asian Studies Tonia K. Devon announced Wednesday that St. Stephens College in India is offering a scholarship
to a Davidson student for study during the first two terms of the coming academic year. St. Stephens is the
institution where Jesse Bhattal, currently a foreign student at Davidson, received his degree.

“In addition to having an excellent academic reputation and intellectual tradition, St. Stephens offers superb recreation, housing, and eating facilities
on campus," Devon said. “It is located in the beautiful and culturally fascinating city of Delhi, the capital of India.
Language is not a barrier to study there since the classes are held in English and the students all speak
English in addition to their regional languages,” she explained.

Fields of study available to students will be economics, history, English, math, chemistry, physics, and philosophy. Arrangements will be made
for transfer of credit in a manner similar to the procedure for transfer of summer school credits. Application forms may
be obtained from the Office of International Education. The student will pay transportation costs for the trip.
