Faculty Team Evaluates Humanities
By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

For the first time since Humanities was instituted in the early 1960s, all the faculty connected with the program met together this summer to reevaluate its basic concepts. Professor of Religion Daniel D. Rhodes, Chairman of the first-year program, said, “This was not done because we thought last year’s program or the program to this point has not been good; we really believe in it. But we thought it could be better.”

Team Redefines Focus
To improve the course, the team felt it was important to define the focus of the program. They decided to base the program upon four relationships: Man’s View of Himself, Man in Society, Man and the Natural World, and Man and the Divine. This new focus resulted in a revision of the stated goals of the program. The objectives stated last year were carried over to this year, but there were a few additions. These include “an awareness of the varied understandings of human existence which have significantly influenced the development of western civilization” and “a critical awareness of the self within the environment and of the implications of values and goals.” These objectives reflect the emphasis that seems to be placed this year upon man’s relationship to himself and his broader environment.

As a result of this “re-thinking” of Humanities, the actual course of study this year is somewhat different from last year. The first-year program places more emphasis on art. The literature of the Hellenistic and Medieval periods will be stressed; students will study some of Euripides’ works, Greek lyrics, The Golden Ass, Parzival, and Augustine’s City of God. There will be more Egyptian material, and original histories, such as Herodotus’ writings, will be read. There will be a reduction in the amount of Biblical material studied.

The second-year program has also been altered somewhat. There is increased emphasis on religion and philosophy. Students will be reading some literature this year that was not assigned last year. For example, second-year Humanities will study Gargantua and Pantagruel by Rabelais, Phaedra by Racine, and Beyond Freedom and Dignity by Skinner. Students will not read Don Quixote, Walden, or any of Moliere’s plays.

For the first time, students are being issued a handbook of supplementary material. This handbook provides the student with reading selections used in the course and reduces the number of books he or she is required to buy.

Since its conception, the Humanities program has followed a historical approach; the course follows the development of western tradition chronologically. There was some discussion this summer as to whether another approach, such as tracing themes or moving backward through time, might be a better way of organizing the program, but the team decided to keep history as the framework. Many students say that this approach has helped them to orient themselves historically and to provide a way to fit into perspective specialized knowledge gained from other courses.

Presents Overall View
Rhodes feels that both students and faculty have learned a great deal through their participation in Humanities. By providing an opportunity for people to break away from their specialized fields of interest and to explore a wide range of topics, the program presents the overall view and can help one become aware of the relationships that exist between different areas of study. But because it does take time away from one’s academic specialties, Rhodes feels that the program should remain optional rather than become compulsory for students and faculty. Humanities, says Rhodes, should be something one “needs to want to do,” not something one has to do.

Spencer Speaks on Issues
College Receives $1 Million for Commons, Faculty Chair
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. announced this week that Davidson has received $1 million in cash from a couple who made anonymity a condition of the gift.

Commons & Professorship
In a speech to the College community on Tuesday morning, Spencer said that half the gift will be put toward the building of a College Commons (Dining Hall), and that the other half would be used to endow a professorship. The cost of building the Commons, which will, when completed in about two years, provide dining facilities for 600 students, is estimated at $1 to $1.5 million dollars. Because it will release Bailey and Richards houses for the creation of two additional clubs.or fraternities, the Commons will relieve overcrowding pressures that have plagued Patterson Court. Few details on the endowed professorship have been worked out yet, but the endowment investment is expected to be $25,000 a year, and the chair will likely be filled beginning in the fall of 1978. College officials see the gift as a major boost for Davidson’s 1987 program, which seeks $35 million to provide endowment for scholarships, faculty and administrative programs, funds to construct or renovate College facilities, and funds to keep the College’s operating budget in balance.

Spencer also spoke about numerous other topics and issues at the College—the revision of the Trustee by-laws which grew out of last spring’s Christian Tenure controversy, the fraternities’ efforts to reinstitute written bids on Patterson Court, the new Rusk House eating club, the recruitment of blacks to Davidson, the issue of evaluation, promotion and tenure for professors, and the balance sheet on last year’s college budget.

By-Law change

“The revision of the By-Law reported out of the May meeting of the Trustees is moving on schedule towards passage in October,” declared Spencer. The Trustees’ Executive Committee met this summer and considered the wording of the proposed By-Law, he said. The Committee made three minor changes in the wording of the proposed by-law and have sent their final draft to the campus for information and comment.

The College came under fire last year when it rescinded a job offer from Ronald Linden, a Jewish Political Science professor, who accepted an invitation to join the faculty at Davidson, but warned that he considered the College's policy (contained in the Trustee by-laws) of requiring all tenured professors to “uphold and seek to increase the College’s effectiveness as a Presbyterian church-related college” as “morally repugnant, socially anachronistic, and scholastically unwise.” The Trustees declared in their May meeting that it had become “increasingly clear that it will be impossible for the administration of the College to apply the provisions of this by-law without the implication of discrimination,” and they voted to revise the by-laws. The revision stated that “the President is also authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons of genuine spirituality, who can work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously support it, and who can live in harmony with the [see SPENCER, page 2]

COMMONS, faculty chair, Trustee By-Laws, fraternities, women, blacks, budget—Spencer addresses college community. {Hunter Jennings}

DAV hopes to boost power

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Despite the many initial doubts and rumors that arose last year, the status of WDAV-FM, the campus radio station, appears to be firmly fixed as plans continue for boosting its power from the current 10 watts to 18,000 watts. This boost will give WDAV a broadcast radius of approximately 80 miles.

“The WDAV staff and I are extremely enthusiastic about the situation at present,” said WDAV Station Manager Sid Barrett. Many of the WDAV personnel arrived on campus early and during the past three weeks have created a new cataloguing system for the records. Records that Barrett terms as “unsuitable for WDAV’s image,” such as top 40 discs and “commercial-sounding music” are being weeded out. And a special effort is presently underway to expand the classical, folk, and jazz collections. Thus, states Barrett, the staff's demonstration of a willingness to work in a devoted and competent manner shows that they are “imminently capable of handling the increased responsibilities that will be arising in the next few weeks.”

The administration appears to be moving ahead in pursuit of the power boost. The primary step the college has taken toward reaching their goal is the hiring of a “director of WDAV,” Don Lovell, who is to aid the student staff in running the station. Lovell has had extensive experience in drama and television productions at Queens College in New York City, where he worked in speech, radio, television, and film for thirteen years. Lovell sees his position as one of a liaison between the administration and WDAV. “The trustees own the station, and delegate much of the responsibility to the student staff. But with the boost to high power, responsibility increases correspondingly, and obviously a liaison is needed.” Barrett is confident that Lovell will help to pull together and mold the talents of the WDAV staff. But he insists that Lovell has “no interest in running the station [see LOVELL, page 2]”