Collins, Duncan vie for Editorship

“Davidson needs to realize that The Davidsonian is more than just a student newspaper, it is a newspaper run by students,” explained Junior Lyman Collins, candidate for Editor. “The Davidsonian has a journalistic obligation to its readers not only to inform but to enlighten.” Collins indicated that to accomplish this ideal, the paper will have to broaden its scope.

“The Davidsonian has a wide responsibility not just to students but to the entire College Community: students, faculty, administration, and townspeople. And it even goes farther than that. There is an entire range of possibilities for the paper outside of Davidson. It needs to shed any lingering parochialism - the idea that Davidson should concern itself just with Davidson.

“One of the first things I want to do after my election is to set up a correspondence with comparable college newspapers, not just to exchange papers but to participate in a forum for the exchange of ideas.” Collins cites a recent article he worked on concerning untenured faculty members as an example of the role The Davidsonian can play among the faculty and administration. “That article brought faculty frustrations to the attention of the administration where hopefully they can be dealt with,” he explained. Collins feels that there are other aspects in the news section of the paper that can be expanded. “I would like to instigate a national See COLLINS page 3]

Vol. LXVII, No. ELEVEN Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

“Since I came to college, The Davidsonian has been the center of my extracurricular life—from a reporter in the first week of my freshman year to Assistant News Editor as a sophomore, and now News Editor. I have devoted much of my time and energy to the newspaper, and some of my friends say I should claim to be a political science major with a ‘minor’ in The Davidsonian,” says Phil Duncan, candidate for Editor.

“During my 2 ½ years with the newspaper I have studied the personal styles of three Davidsonian editors, I have listened carefully as students and faculty criticized (and occasionally praised) our work, and I have witnessed first-hand the newspaper’s shortcomings and its potential.

“My platform is a blending of my personal goals and newspaper experiences and those comments, suggestions, and criticisms I have heard from you while at Davidson. Please consider the ideas and programs I propose, then give me a chance to intensify my commitment to The Davidsonian and with my staff effect the changes that will transform our newspaper into one of the nation’s best college weeklies.”

Platform

Duncan maintains that The Davidsonian will not become an excellent newspaper until we dramatically increase the size of the staff. “The quality of The Davidsonian is inconsistent because the newspaper is understaffed. We must draw in dynamic new people, new outlooks that will challenge us to consider a broader range of viewpoints before writing news articles and editorials,” he says. “As Editor, I will search far and wide for new staff members—seniors who have mailed in grad school applications and are now cruising towards graduation with more time See DUNCAN page 3]

OFF TO A FLYING START

Freshman guard Chris Dodds, recently selected Southern Conference Player of the Week, scored 35 points in last night’s shootout with N.C. State. See stories page 14. [Greg Strader]

Discussion continues over three course requirement

By PAM CAMERRA Assistant News Editor

The Curriculum Requirement Committee (CRC) and the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) met Monday and discussed the policy of the three-course requirement. In the past, students having extra credits could petition the CRC to take a reduced load. In the future, however, students will no longer be able to take two courses simply because they are credits ahead. “The policy continues the ThievesPlague Chambers, Hesse Display Pilfered
By TIM MOORE
Staff Writer

Two portraits are missing from a display in Chambers lobby. Professor of German Erich Wruck is disappointed, and Director of Communications Martha Byrd Roberts reports that such exhibit thefts have occurred before. Wruck explained that he had been trying for two years to obtain the Goethe Institute’s Hermann Hesse exhibit, which finally arrived last week. Wruck put the best 50 portraits from the exhibit (total value $2,000) in the Chambers lobby, and the theft occurred on December 1. If the portraits are not returned, Wruck must write the Goethe Institute to report the theft.

“I don’t know how to explain that at Davidson College this sort of thing happens,” he said. “I sincerely hope that the individual(s) who took these pictures will return them before Friday, December 9 when this exhibit will be sent to another college.”

Director of Communications Martha Byrd Roberts, who coordinates the placement of all exhibits in Chambers lobby, explains that pictures and posters from other displays have been pilfered in the past. “Artist Laura Grosch hung a $300 set of prints in the lobby. They disappeared completely the Tuesday night of Thanksgiving week,” she said. “I think these actions are thoughtless—the thieves do not realize that these are things of value. People take things from the exhibits because they think they are pretty and would make nice room decorations.”

Roberts attempts to keep the lobby looking attractive since visitors often pass through it, but indicates that “people are understandably reluctant to put things of value in such displays because the College can’t patrol the area.”

“The same as it has always been,” said Registrar Richard Burts, chairman of the CRC. “The change is in the practice of the policy and the personality and educational aims of the new Vice President.”

Under the former two Vice Presidents of Academic Affairs, Jack Bevon and Frontis Johnston, requests for two courses were submitted and approved by the vice president, except in borderline cases where the CRC was called together to discuss the individual case. “I became aware that Dr. Johnston believed if a student were ahead in his credits and if it would not hurt his normal progress, he should be approved to take two courses,” said Burts.

During fall term, New Vice President of Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann gave Burts the responsibility of deciding who would be allowed to take three courses. “I approved people on the same grounds as Dr. Johnston had in the past,” said Burts. Twelve regular and one international student were approved to take two courses at that time.

Burts received several requests from students in November to take two courses and presented them to Zimmermann. Zimmermann and Burts took the issue of the three-course requirement to the CRC meeting on November 9. The committee concurred with Zimmermann’s view that the policy should be more vigorously enforced. “Taking a reduced course load will not be allowed unless students are taking the equivalent of a third course,” said Zimmermann. “Credits ahead is no longer a justification for taking two courses.”

Before Thanksgiving break, five requests were made to the CRC for reduced course loads for winter term. Zimmermann and Burts reviewed these requests and approved four students as of November 23. Last week during drop/add, several more requests for a reduced course load were submitted to Burts. Several of them were “borderline cases where we could not immediately say yes or no,” said Burts. A meeting of the CRC was called Monday afternoon to review the cases. Altogether, eight out of nineteen requests for a reduced course load were approved.

The EPC met with CRC Monday afternoon to discuss further the implications of the three-course requirement. According to Burts, members of the EPC expressed both support and opposition for the policy. 

(See ZIMMERMANN Page 3)