April 28, 1977

(Continued from page 1)

"the By-Laws," said Dagenhart.

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

The news media has spread the name of Davidson College into many parts of the country with its coverage of
the case of Dr. Ronald Linden.

"In the ten years that I've been here," said Director of News and Photography Earl W. "Buck" Lawrimore, "there has
never been anything that brought as many media telephone calls."

Lawrimore listed a number of media organizations that have contacted him seeking information about the circumstances of the Linden case.

The Charlotte Observer was one of the first to contact Lawrimore. A front-page article appeared on April 23, with another
follow-up front-page article, an editorial, and a commentary on April 27.

The Raleigh News and Observer, New York Post, Washington Post, New York Times, and the Philadelphia Inquirer have covered the
story.

The Associated Press in Raleigh distributed it throughout the Eastern United States. "It was sent all over the country," said
Lawrimore.

WBT-TV and the NBC news did spots on the case, and the Chronicle of Higher Education, the Religious News Service,
and the Daily Princetonian (Princeton's student paper) called Lawrimore for information.

Lawrimore said that he relayed a statement to those requesting information while "many had additional questions which I tracked down
answers for."

"I read them the relevant bylaws... and in capsule the course of actions that followed... we did not release anything
about Linden's letter until Linden released that information to the Washington Post."

Lawrimore spoke of "mixed" emotions toward the press coverage.

"Unfortunately some have tried to simplify it to being anti-semitic. In the long run, the college would have been better
with no publicity at all on this," said Lawrimore.

Chairman of the Board consulted with R. Stair, Vice-chairman, and James K. Dorsett, another lawyer on the Board.

"Counsel concluded that Linden's acceptance failed to fulfill a key condition of the offer—that condition being that Linden would 'genuinely
want to join such a community and would uphold and seek to increase the effectiveness of the college as a
church-related college,'" said Dagenhart.

"Counsel talked at some length with Dr. Spencer about the visit of Dr. Linden to Davidson and their conversation in
the interview," he continued.

"Counsel wanted to find out whether Linden was repeating in the letter what he had said in the interview about
Christian tenure, or whether the statement in the letter was something different."

"There was no question that the statement in the letter was different," said Dagenhart.

Dagenhart commented, "I don't believe the letter would have been written offering Linden the job if he, in his interview,
had expressed disagreement with Christian tenure in the terms expressed in the acceptance letter."

Students said that Linden was not contacted between the time the college received his acceptance letter and the time the
offer was withdrawn because "there wasn't any lack of clarity in what he said in the acceptance letter."

"The letter did not constitute an acceptance because the appointment had not been accepted in the terms offered," Dagenhart said.

Dagenhart did not see, given that Linden had clearly stated what he had said, that there was anything to renegotiate.

The letter rescinding Linden's job offer was sent April 13.

Several articles in the national media have hinted that Davidson might face censure from professional academic societies or lose government
funding because of the Linden case. Dagenhart said, "I have had no contacts from any professional group, and I do
not know of any investigations going on." Any discussion of the impact of the Linden case on government funding would
be "in the realm of conjecture."

Spencer said that "the anti-Semitic slant in some of the media coverage is most unfortunate because it will hurt Davidson.
The anti-Semitic slant is completely inaccurate."

"The legal opinion based on the language of Linden's letter would have been the same had he been a Presbyterian,
a Mohammedan, or a Free Will Baptist," Spencer declared.

Dagenhart and Spencer agreed that, though the decision was made by only a few Trustees of the college, "those that
we have talked to since think that we handled it properly."

In closing, Spencer commented on the recent activities on the Davidson campus:

The boycott of Spring Convocation: "I understand the reactions of people. I think it was unfortunate to choose to diminish
the recognition and honor given to people who had earned it, on an unrelated issue."

The efforts of those circulating petitions and working in other ways to urge the Trustees to evaluate Christian tenure: "I
have always supported working within the Democratic process, and that is exactly what this seems to me to be."

"We are planning an Open End with the Executive Committee of the Trustees when they arrive next weekend. They will
be willing to hear whatever people want to say about Christian tenure."

"From that point I really can't predict what the Trustees will do."

Copyright
Philip D. Duncan
News Editor
1977

(Your complete casual wear store)
206 N. MAIN ST. MOORESVILLE
(across from Belk)

Grand Opening

VALUES TO 70% OFF

assortment of t-shirts and tank tops $1.95
Ladies tops $7.95
one rack of assorted jeans $9.95
Levis $10.95
$2.95 up

Greatest assortment of style jeans in this area. Such as: Mate, Viceroy, Lee, Faded Glory, Levi, Rumble Seats, and more...

Register for Gift Certificates valued at $300.00

TEN $10 GIFT CERTIFICATES DAILY

CLIP THIS AD FOR 20% DISCOUNT WITH I.D.
