February 4, 1977

Decadent folk reviewed
By AMANDA HALL and CATHY LANDIS

Last fall Edwards, Clark, and Flynn (with Thom Jenkins) from the Boone area performed in the then-new 900 Room. On
Wednesday night they had a “crowd” of about thirty. When they did their last set on Saturday, the room did
not have space for another body. Ranging from cross-your-heart commercials to a masterful flute solo by their one-man back-up band
Thom Jenkins, the band produced a remarkably tight show with about 5 or 6 songs by the band members.

Now hailing from Nashville, the group has been on the road since before Christmas and shows an almost uncanny sense
of timing. Unfortunately, one rather vocal group of students managed to distract people throughout the first set and “treated” most
people with the interesting problem of having to ignore them and listen to the acoustic band at the same time.
Fortunately, the vocal section in the audience left, and the band responded with an even better second set. This is
a group to listen to so closely that the dust covers you for a bit, so come prepared to be
entertained, both musically and visually. They will be appearing Thursday and Friday nights. Admission is by I.D.

The Davidsonian (D) interviewed Edwards, Clark, and Flynn (ECF) before Wednesday’s show:

D: When were you formed?
ECF: Three years ago. We met in college. Thom Jenkins is the only music major. He was teaching music at
the time of the formation. Now he’s retired and plays full-time with us.

D: Where do you play?
ECF: 50/50 clubs and colleges. We like to play ski resorts because we like to ski. We like colleges the
best because the audiences are more intelligent and less drunk. At least they're not rude when they’re drunk.

D: How do you categorize yourself?
ECF: That’s a million-dollar question. We are bound and determined not to be pigeon-holed. But we do realize the need
to define music... just call us decadent folk. Because of Thom, we are influenced by jazz. Because of Nashville, we
play bluegrass and country. Our original material is nasty folk!

D: Is jazz on the rise in the South?
ECF: I think so. It’s more due to the breakdown of pigeonholes.

D: What about a rise in country music?
ECF: It’s America. It may be because country music is changing. They’ve learned from rock music how to make it
slicker.

D: Do you get tired of traveling and eating bad food, etc.?
ECF: You learn what not to eat. We don’t stop at many Hardee’s anymore. The road is a fine way
to live when you enjoy it. It can get old, but so does a 9 to 5 job. It’s not
traveling that gets you down, it’s when you don’t have a job.

MOTHER'S FINEST brings “high energy rock” to Love Auditorium.
“Prepare for rocking stage show”
By BERT DOWNS
Staff Writer

A rare treat is in store for Davidson this Friday night when Mother’s Finest takes the Love Auditorium stage for
the Midwinters.Concert. From all indications, this promises to be a show long remembered by all. Mother’s Finest has earned a
dedicated regional following through their endless touring of the Southeast the past few years. They are based in Atlanta, where
this past New Year's Eve at the Fox Theatre, they stole the show from the top-billed Atlanta. They have just
recently begun to gain national attention through the release of their first album, Mother's Finest, on Epic Records. They have
been touring this fall and winter, opening shows for such notables as Peter Frampton, The Who, Robin Trower, and Foghat.
Paced by the excellent vocals of Glenn Murdock and Joyce Kennedy, and the stinging electric guitar punch of Gary Moore,
the music of Mother’s Finest is difficult to pin down to one area. Basically, there’s a high-energy blend of rock
and roll, rhythm and blues, and funky soul. Individually and as a band, Mother’s Finest are outstanding musicians and the
album has won critical acclaim nationwide, including Rolling Stone, Billboard, and Circus. Still, the album does not capture the spark
and excitement of Mother's Finest on stage. Just ask anyone from Atlanta about that. Regardless of one’s personal taste in
music, it is hard not to be entertained by this band. Their stage show fits the music—the special effects, their
attire, their movement—all combine to produce what Rolling Stone calls “some choice moments of high energy rock.” Great things have
been predicted for Mother's Finest by some of the big names in the industry, and Davidson is fortunate to have
them at this early point in their career. I once heard them end a concert with the lead singer warning,
“If you can’t remember our name, remember our initials.” You won’t forget their name.

Preview By BILL HOLLADAY Staff Writer

A humiliated magic troupe works a unique revenge on its tormentors in this coming Tuesday night’s Fine Film feature, “The
Magician.” Ingmar Bergman superbly directs a strong cast headed by Max von Sydow (the cynical knight of “The Seventh Seal”)
in a film critically acclaimed as one of Bergman’s best. As usual with Bergman, the story is a parable. The
plot resembles a chess problem which seems impossible to solve—impossible, that is, until you are given the key, which immediately
makes everything absolutely clear and logical. Bergman’s direction is strong, subtly blending realism with mysticism until the distinction becomes quite
blurred. This feeling is enhanced by the dark, moody, but beautiful photography. The film is rich in melodrama, satire, and
(often unexpected) comedy. It is typically Bergman in its ability to hold your thought, even after the questions have been
answered. “The Magician” is an undeniably rewarding film, but be forewarned: one critic labelled it “a thinking man’s horror film.”
Don’t expect to leave the theatre unmoved. “The Magician” will be shown Tuesday, February 8, at 8 pm in Love
Auditorium. Admission will be $1.50.

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Come browse

Use Your Charge Acct, Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Meck & Son, Only Six Miles North — Mooresville
