March 11, 1977

The Infirmary

THE INFIRMARY cries for new bedding as one of its needs. (Hunter Jennings)

Opinion
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The college Infirmary has proven to offer poor and inadequate health care to several Davidson students, causing other students to
hesitate to use the available services. The Davidsonian found the inadequate services involve primarily hasty and incomplete examinations by the
doctors, increasing the possibility of incorrect diagnoses, poor x-ray equipment, and the lack of transportation available for injured students to
use to reach hospitals in either Huntersville or Charlotte.

Sally Stow had an injured knee diagnosed as pulled ligaments by an infirmary doctor. As he tried to inject cortisone
into the joint, blood came out of the wound, forcing the cortisone out. “I asked about the blood and he
did not answer my question and continued to inject cortisone and taped my leg,” Stow said. “He said to come
back if my knee locked. About five days later the muscles in my leg atrophied from disuse and my leg
would not bend. Thinking my leg had locked, two of my friends carried me down to the Infirmary where I
spent the night on pain killers,” she said.

The following day the infirmary doctor referred Stow to the hospital in Huntersville for x-rays. “I had to find my
own transportation to Huntersville, get the x-rays and then bring them back to Davidson for further consultation,” she said. All
this was to be done with an atrophied leg. Stow was then referred to a Charlotte clinic, having to find
her own transportation there, and diagnosed as having congenital defects in both knees which caused the damage. She spent the
next six months either on crutches or in braces. The next summer she had her knee examined in Atlanta and
found that a small bone fragment was lodged under the kneecap, dislodging the cap and causing tissue damage to the
joint. “There was an evident protrusion from under the kneecap the entire time since the accident,” she said. This protrusion
was the bone fragment the doctors could not find.

Katherine Kafoglis also had a broken bone misdiagnosed by the Infirmary and Huntersville doctors. She broke her elbow in a
fall, visited the Infirmary and was told to find her own transportation to Huntersville for x-rays. The doctor who read
the x-ray, who also worked at the Infirmary, told her the arm was not broken, and to exercise the joint
to bring down the swelling. Two days later she received a call from the Infirmary, saying that the x-ray had
been read incorrectly and that the elbow was broken. “The doctor at the Infirmary put my arm into a sling
and told me to find a way into Charlotte to go to the Miller Clinic. The doctor there said that
if I had waited any longer it would have probably set wrong,” she said.

One cannot lay the entire blame for misdiagnosed breaks on the infirmary doctors, because the x-rays have to be taken
in Huntersville. But misdiagnosed illnesses are another matter entirely. Bill Barnes received inadequate care for an intestinal infection and was
forced to go to an emergency room at a Charlotte hospital as a result. When Barnes visited the Infirmary, “The
doctor poked around in my stomach and made some tongue-in-cheek remarks about appendicitis. He told me I could discharge myself
in the morning any time I wanted to,” he said. Less than 24 hours after he was discharged, Barnes had
to go to Charlotte for treatment. “It took the doctor there 20 minutes to diagnose it and they cleared it
up in two hours, while I spent almost 24 hours in agony after visiting the Infirmary,” he said.

These instances are only examples of students’ complaints with the Infirmary. They are by no means the only cases. “We
try very hard up here—I don’t know whether the students are too demanding or what,” said infirmary doctor Kerecman when
he was shown the students’ complaints. “We're pushed for time, and we certainly don’t have time to spend a half
an hour talking to students about their problems and all the psychological implications,” he said.

This reporter waited 20 minutes to speak with Kerecman. During this time he saw five different patients. Four-minute health care
is not what any student wants or needs. Of course, this aspect only represents half of Davidson’s health care. The
nurses repeatedly received glowing compliments for their care.This rapid service cannot be blamed on the Infirmary alone; both the students
and the college administration help to create it. Many students visit the facility regularly, even when they have no serious
illness, taking time away from students with valid complaints. These students come for a variety of reasons, but their actions
are selfish and possibly damaging to other students. The doctors are available for only 1½ hours a day now, necessarily
limiting their time with patients. Davidson needs the full-time doctors they plan to hire in 1978 now.

Women desire more extensive care
By ERICA GJERSVIK
Features Editor

Is the consciousness of Davidson College finally being raised to see and meet the needs of women students? The recent
controversy over the all-female eating house called for new campus sensitivity to the demands of women. But other more basic
considerations in the area of women’s health care and birth control exist in ambiguous, ill-defined terms where adequate consideration for
women’s needs are not evident. A look at the policy of the college toward women’s health care reveals that their
stand on gynecological care and birth control remains noncommittal and vague. The official policy states that “gynecological care is provided;
however, students should consult a gynecologist elsewhere for routine examinations.”

The actual policy of the infirmary is presently dependent on the doctor in charge, while in the past the policy
varied from doctor to doctor. Van Williamson pointed out that in previous years you could “go to doctor A and
he would not give a pelvic examination and go to doctor B and he would prescribe the Pill.” Dr. Ellithorpe,
head of the Infirmary, recommends the Pill saying that “as far as convenience and efficiency and safety, the Pill is
probably head and shoulders with other birth control methods.” Dr. Ellithorpe is not a qualified gynecologist and while he does
provide some services to women students, he is not capable of presenting the student with the range of information and
service of a professional.

[see GYNECOLOGY, page 12]

... in an otherwise inadequate facility.

[Continued from page 1]

However, will not arrive until September 1978, and with the expiration of the Huntersville clinic contract, Davidson will be left
for one year without an infirmary doctor. Terry is now looking for a doctor at the stage between internship and
residency to fill in. He feels the best place to look for such a man would be the Army. Davidson
used an Army doctor four years ago. If an Army doctor cannot be found, Terry says the alternative will be
a “patchwork job.” Several doctors will be hired throughout the year for short periods of time. He cites as an
example a Mooresville doctor who is willing to do sick call for six weeks. He knows of additional interns from
Charlotte who might be willing to fill in other time slots. “This system is really all right,” Terry comments. “We
can have someone work for only two weeks because no one’s in the Infirmary for any longer than that.” The
new doctors are only part of what needs to be improved in the Infirmary. The building forms the most immediate
problem. As of now, Davidson plans to utilize the present building for both the college Infirmary and office space for
the new doctors. The college, however, anticipates problems with parking and has not yet found a solution. The administration does
not feel it has the money to invest in a new building. Besides a new building, the Infirmary needs a
new intercom system, mattresses, a microscope, and another examining room. If the presently Huntersville Hospital can be worked out, Davidson
can take advantage of their facilities. “The X-ray machine is a different respect.”

THE INFIRMARY NURSES

By CHARLES ERWIN
Asst. Features Editor

“You don’t need bifocals to see that the needs of other college departments are being met before ours,” said Mrs.
Dorothy Sherrill, supervisor of the Preyer Infirmary, often listing several needs which have gone neglected. For over a decade, the
nurses have pleaded with Dean Terry to have an elevator installed. “We’ve had students who were about to faint that
had to stop and sit down while climbing the stairs. Many students just don’t feel like walking up steps when
they come in,” commented Mrs. Edith Christian, one of the other three registered nurses working in the Infirmary. Also, it
is tiring for the nurses to incessantly walk up and down the stairs during busy periods when most of the
thirteen beds on the second floor are occupied.
