Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Return on evaluations disappointing

Students fail to assess courses

By CHARLES ERWIN
Asst. Features Editor

SGA President Thom Young’s efforts to achieve a valid student course evaluation system have suffered a serious setback. In the face of widespread criticism that the fall term evaluation results were totally meaningless due to poor response, the winter term response has proven even lower.

Dana English, who is in charge of the SGA Evaluation project, reported that 1465 forms were completed and returned to the SGA for winter courses. This is 62 less than the 1527 forms which were turned in for fall term courses.

“I do not know whether the decrease is due to the Senators’ laziness or the people just not filling the forms out,” said English.

Young was expecting a big rise in returns. One month ago, before the dorm Senators had even begun distributing the winter course forms, he projected the rate of return would be much greater due to student interest in the fall term results.

Young has been pushing for the administration to take on the project so that students will either have to fill out the forms or signify they don’t want to respond. In this way, he said that the low return problem would disappear. However, for the administration to accept responsibility for the program, the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) will have to support the idea.

The College Constitution states that all faculty evaluation procedures must be formulated by the college president “in conjunction with the faculty.” Professor David Kaylor, present PAC chairman, said in reaction to the low rate of return, “If the students have that low an interest, it makes one wonder about the real value of it (the evaluation).”

Professors “have the same anxiety about having themselves evaluated in public as students would if their grades were published,” said Kaylor. PAC has flatly come out against having official administration evaluation forms released to students. Young, on the other hand, insisted that any evaluation form would have to be made public “as long as I’m in office.” He refused to compromise on the issue.

Although it is unclear what position the new academic vice-president will take on the matter, it appears the two viewpoints are irreconcilable. Thom Young has said, “If the evaluation forms can’t be institutionalized within the administration, then they will be institutionalized within the SGA.” But this proposal was hinged on a higher rate of voluntary student cooperation.

Young has stated that the present results are statistically inaccurate. It is uncertain whether or not the SGA can come up with a means of achieving higher response. It will be unclear for some time, perhaps until the SGA evaluation booklet is distributed, whether the whole student evaluation program is in jeopardy.

Faculty attempts to establish evaluation policy reached a similar standstill in 1973 when the Board of Trustees rejected the PAC plan for evaluation. Kaylor said that at no time did PAC receive a full account of why the plan was rejected, although they were able to get a general idea.

[see PAC, page 3]

April 8, 1977

Union Board restricts beer

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor
and MEREDITH DEAN
Staff Writer

The Union Board voted Wednesday night to stop selling beer in pitchers in the 900 Room each night at 12:30 am and agreed to restrict the number of children in the College Union. The new policy will go into

U.S. District Court upholds State tuition grant program

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

A U.S. district court recently ruled to uphold tuition grants from the state of North Carolina to church-related colleges. The case pertained to Belmont Abbey College and Pfeiffer College, but the implications extend to all 38 of North Carolina’s private institutions. If the grant program had been ruled unconstitutional, aid to all 38 private church-related North Carolina colleges would have been affected.Colleges could have been discontinued. Both the state and private colleges argued that tuitions of private institutions have risen to the point that state schools would be overburdened with students if the state does not help pay the private tuitions. The judges reasoned that the tuition grants do not violate the First Amendment provisions for separation of church and state. The court felt that the colleges in question are not “pervasively sectarian,” or functioning in a manner solely to promote religion. The judges overruled Pfeiffer College Professor Michael Smith who maintained that state aid was unconstitutional. “It encourages students to attend colleges where they will be influenced to become or remain religious,” he said.

Last year the state provided $8.6 million in tuition aid for 23,000 private college students. North Carolina has three separate programs which channel state funds into private education. Under the first program, funds are granted to private colleges in the state on the basis of the number of North Carolina resident students enrolled in them on a full-time basis. The second program grants $200 for each academic year to each North Carolina resident attending college full-time. The college then allocates that money to those students needing financial aid. The third program consists of $650,000 in state funds appropriated for scholarship grants to post-secondary school undergraduate students on the basis of financial need.

The decision was handed down by U.S. District Judges James McMillan, Woodrow Wilson Jones, and Clement Haynsworth. McMillan warned the colleges that by accepting state aid they may become subject to state control. If state subsidies become too large, “the power to withdraw them will be the power to control the private schools they benefit.”

Effect Thursday, April 14. Pitcher sales will cease at 12:30 am nightly. Sale of beer in cups will continue until 1 am. All patrons will be expected to leave the 900 Room by 1:15 am. No non-students under 18 (except dates) will be admitted to the Union unless accompanied at all times by an authorized student or adult, or unless granted permission from Union Director C. Shaw Smith.

The board expressed its pleasure with students’ conduct in the Union during the recent Spring Frolics activities. Last week the board was considering drastic measures to eliminate increased vandalism and abuse of the Union’s rules. “I continue to be amazed at what good things students can do if they want to,” said Director C. Shaw Smith. “It’s up to the students themselves to make things work, and when they decide to, there is nothing that can compare. During this last weekend, the whole direction seemed to be changing.”

Plans are being made for a public relations campaign, manned by students, to inform their peers of the rules and responsibilities stemming from use of Union facilities. Also, a letter has been sent to the college community pertaining to vandalism in the facility. The board also voted to divide the Evenings With.../Open End Committee into an Open End Committee and Evenings With.../Personality Parade Committee.

By NANCY McNAIR
Assistant News Editor

The admissions staff has completed evaluation of the folders of over 1500 applicants and has accepted 600 candidates for admission to the class of 1981. Forty percent of those who applied were accepted, down from last year’s acceptance rate of fifty-three percent. “The percentage that we accepted is lower because the number of applications was up, and the size of next year’s freshman class was cut down,” said Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White.

600 earn admission

“The competition for the 103 places for women was the toughest I’ve seen in my 22 years of admissions work. Just unbelievably tough. We had to put some really great women applicants on the waiting list,” said White. Only 180 of almost 400 women’s applicants were accepted. “For men, much the same factors were involved, but not to such an extent,” he said. “There was a slight increase in men’s applicants from last year (980 to 1110); the quality was at least as good, and we [see 600, page 2]