4 December 2, 1977

The requirement that students take three courses each term unless they can prove a true academic reason is paternalistic. People over 18 should be able to determine the structure of their academic experiences. A student who has for some reason been able to speed up that experience enough to allow him to take a two-course term has already demonstrated his academic ability. Requiring him to take three courses instead of two undermines his proven responsibility and deserved respect by treating him as if he were still in high school.

Or take the student who is tired of studying, able to take only two courses and wishes for his own mental health to curb the pressure of a three-course term. He would probably not be allowed to do so. He has taken a mature look at his stress, found a way to alleviate it. Yet the three-course requirement does not give him the credit to analyze his own emotional stability.

Dr. Zimmermann says the curriculum at a school like Davidson is not simply a catalogue of 36 course requirements students need to pass off as quickly as possible. Instead, it offers a continuum of education enhanced by each term’s three courses. His reasoning is invalid because it does not recognize the individuality of each student. How can he

Liberalism vs. liberal arts

When I first heard that the faculty voted down the resolution to make a non-western course a requirement, I was disappointed. To me, the true liberal arts spirit means exposure to many areas of study, and the vote seemed to be a rejection of an important part of the world. Since then, I see the issue is more complex.

One of the best arguments against requiring a non-western course is that the psychological pressure of still another requirement is not necessary in light of the fact that a majority of students take non-western courses even though they are not required. I sympathize with the argument, especially after expressing the views against strict course requirements in the editorial above. Yet I cannot help but feel all students should be exposed to other cultures if they are to take their liberal arts education seriously. In a time when so much emphasis is put upon using education only to get a job, and when the intrinsic value of education is thus ignored, I feel the exposure, despite the pressure, is valid.

Another good argument opposing the resolution is that because of the growing need to require a basic English program to remedy the failure of many high schools to prepare students to write effectively, the entire curriculum should be evaluated before adding another requirement. So if we cannot change it all, change nothing? The opposition has a strong argument if it truly intends to evaluate the entire curriculum. If not, they have only bought time and an excuse. Basic English probably should be required. So should a non-western course. Yes, the issue is complex. I would hope that the faculty seriously investigates the Davidson curriculum, and after that evaluation, can, in good conscience, see the validity in the required exposure to the non-western world.

The Davidsonian

Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............. News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ........... Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings.......... Photography Editor
Production Manager
Business Manager
Brian Benninghoff ............ Advertising Manager
Cartoonist
Photographer
Focus Editor
Inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Two courses booed; students stewedSay a two-course term of intense study or a two-course term of self-analysis does not give some students a continuum of educational experiences which would be stifled by the formalistic three-course-a-term approach. He also says the faculty does not wish students to take only two courses a term because the extra time a student would devote to those two courses would imbalance the classes and not be fair to the other students. This reasoning is not a very well-thought-out excuse by the faculty and administration. What faculty member would not be delighted that a student gets as much out of his class as possible? This situation goes back to the old question of whether it is valid to compromise the more intelligent members of a class by structuring it only for those of average intelligence. Once again, the administration is not acknowledging the individuality of each student. For some reason, the administration and many faculty do not trust the students’ ability to act like mature adults. This attitude suppresses creativity and individuality by requiring its students to fit into the mold they set for the students. It is time Davidson grew up and entered the world of colleges and universities.

On the Edge
Elegiac Epithets
By KEVIN SHELLY

Forgotten, alone, it sits silently snuggled into the corner of a small field, fronted by a rutted dirt road and bordered by straggly trees pretending to be woods once again. The place is difficult to find, easily overlooked. It sits hidden from a college playing field, as planned, by a row of evergreens. The college dumps their refuse in the woods approaching it—castaway building scraps mostly. The town does the same in this field. It is Davidson’s black cemetery.

Winter rains are hard on the soil and thick clay overwhelms the mottled green-brown grass in many places. Lifeless branches from the few trees willing to live here litter the ground and the roots of trees protrude vein-like where the soil has been washed away. Stalagmite-like columns of tiny ice crystals grow whenever the freshly turned ground is sinking back to earth, leaving the ice capped thinly by mud and looking like a grotesque fungus. The clay balls and clings to my shoes. All is still and silent except for the thawing earth and a crow calling far away.

Markers are thrown indiscriminately in a crazy quilt pattern, disrupting the continuity of the grass. All shapes and sizes, mostly stone, and less ornate than those in the cemeteries of my memory. Unlike anywhere past are nondescript green metallic markers. Most are twisted and broken by uncaring feet or stripped of their titles and nameless. Oak leaves, withered but still attached and enduring, rub gently in the trees. A train wails and I feel the wind strike me. The crow calls again.

Many of the markers list ranks and deaths in foreign wars—serving their country. World War I. World War II. Vietnam. Fighting for this. Here is Hiram Potts. “Long a faithful servant of Davidson College.” Servant isn’t very far from the old word. Halved cinder blocks serve as flower holders. Strewn amongst the memorials are plastic flowers. They fade, but they remain. The antithesis of life. Another—“His toils are past, his work is done. He fought the fight—the victory won.” This.

Standing above the quiet is the oak, firmly rooted in the soil but stretching skyward. Man in caricature. Lichens cover the deeply folded bark. Two organisms living together, through each other. Back along the wood’s edge, a meandering square outline of brick runs around a family plot, as though to keep them together in death and the world out. The shadow of a crow skims along the ground. A weathered angel, the white worn away and showing streaks of gray, skirts soiled rusty by the clay, supplicates before a half-buried rock. Large stones loom here and there among the others; stones that represent scrimping, saving, and going without by the living to make a final material statement for the dead. I like small stones with just initials. Whether you know them or you don’t. Names aren’t important—just knowing they are people is.

Standing here makes college absurd—perverse. The reality of the place makes trying to read and understand about human emotions in a classroom obscene.