April 22, 1977 — The Davidsonian

Assistant to the President

Barnes responds to appointment

By MEREDITH DEAN
Staff Writer

Davidson senior Gary Barnes, newly appointed Assistant to the President, smiled and responded seriously, "I was very pleased and honored when Dr. Spencer offered me the position.

"I feel that the job will provide me with opportunities for a combination of things. First, to take a break from the academic world before plunging into law school, to learn useful skills in organization and writing, and also to meet and work with new and interesting people."

Outgoing Assistant Peter Clark '76 elaborated on these opportunities. "I've been able to see things from a totally different point of view without being coerced into accepting it.

"Going from a student to an administrator has introduced me to a much broader perspective of the college and it has definitely been enlightening.

"The job is unique in that one is neither fish nor fowl," continued Clark, "which has its advantages as well as disadvantages.

"I've enjoyed the pleasures of Davidson without having the pressures of study although knowing where to fit between students and administration can prove to be difficult."

Barnes feels this so-called "identity crisis" will be no problem. He realizes the importance of his close ties with the student body and recognizes the need to keep in touch with what students are thinking in order to effectively handle his position.

"My door will always be open to students and I hope to stay in touch with student desires and needs," Barnes said. He also encourages students to approach the President themselves when they have something to say.

As to whether he will serve as a "channel" to the President for others' opinions or...

Carter presents energy plan

Wednesday night, April 21, President Jimmy Carter introduced to Congress and the public his proposals for a nationwide energy conservation program. The Davidsonian would like to synopsize for you here the major proposals of a plan Carter says "can lead to an even better life for the people of America."

* Carter proposes a standby tax on gasoline that could gradually raise taxes by five-cent increments to 50 additional cents per gallon by 1987 if the country did not meet the goal of a ten percent cut in consumption.

* He advocates a graduated excise tax on new "gas-guzzling" automotives and a graduated rebate on automobiles exceeding efficiency standards.

* A new tax on domestic oil would, over three years, raise the price to the prevailing world level, about $14 per barrel. Revenues from this tax would be returned to citizens as a "per capita" rebate that could reach $75 a year for most Americans.

* Better insulation and other conserving improvements would be encouraged in homes and buildings. If tax and other...

WDAV seeks Federal funds

By PHILIP DUNN
News Editor

Director of Communications Martha Roberts has submitted a request for federal monetary assistance in funding the upgrading of WDAV. The grant request, sent to the Program for Noncommercial, Educational Broadcasting Facilities, lists the total projected capital costs of the radio station as $187,000. The college is seeking the maximum level of assistance from...the government—75 percent, or about $140,000. Roberts worked with Director of News and Photography Earl W. "Buck" Lawrimore and others familiar with the radio station’s proposed expansion to arrive at approximate cost estimates for capital incentives. If voluntary action is not spurred enough, mandatory improvements will be considered.

* Stringent efficiency standards for household appliances would be mandatory by 1980.
* Industries undertaking conservation measures would get a ten percent tax credit.
* For the first time, gas sold within a state would be subject to the same price as interstate gas.
* Taxes and laws would force industry to shift from burning oil and gas to coal.
* Tax incentives would encourage solar power units for heating and cooling homes.

Roberts explained that some of the equipment costs, such as automation equipment and air-conditioning and remodeling of the studio, might be reevaluated in light of the degree of funding provided by the government. Roberts indicated that the listed costs could well be higher than actual expenditures. "If we erred in our estimates, we tried to err on the cautious side. We tried to anticipate all expenditures, so we don’t end up short of cash at a later date," Roberts said. Roberts is not certain when the college will receive word of the federal government's decision on the grant. "I would expect that we might hear by September," she said.

Roberts stressed that the figures in the request are of necessity estimates, because plans for the radio station are "still in the flexible stage." Much will depend on the amount of financial assistance offered by the government.

Clark also employed the informal "open door" policy of liaison between students and administration. He feels, however, that his job dealt more directly with relations between the college and the Trustees. Trustee meetings and convocations are two major responsibilities of the Assistant, as well as generally helping Dr. Spencer with whatever needs to be done. One of Clark’s pet projects is to compose a handbook of helpful hints and suggestions from past assistants to guide the "newcomer." The fact that there is a newcomer each year means that "the job can be approached differently each time around—there are no prerequisites as to how the job has always been done." Clark also asserts that the year has been "an educational experience" and he now plans to continue his formal education at Vanderbilt Law School in September.

Barnes looks forward to the experience and is already enthusiastic about his possible role in certain issues, such as the vandalism problem, which are facing the college today.

RESULTS OF REFERENDUM ON AMENDMENT TO COLLEGE CONSTITUTION
YES 430
NO 32
ABSTENTIONS

OPENING SOON
the jean shoppe
(downtown Mooresville)
Offering Male, Viceroy, Faded Glory, Duck Head Painter Pants and of course Levi
Grand Opening Sale April 28-30
Discount with I-D.