The Davidsonian

February 11, 1977

Romances capture scholar

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Staff Writer

“Ideally, I’d like to do a study of more active heroines, heroines who have some gumption.” Maureen Boulton pushes back
her thick red hair and discusses her writing interests. Currently, she is working on a thesis for St. Hilda’s College
of the University of Oxford, “Lyric Insertions in Narrative Fiction in the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries.”

The paper requires the study of about forty French romances. These romances, ranging from 350 lines to 6,000 pages, are
all narratives with lyric insertions, “which means it’s like Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire movies, where someone suddenly bursts out
into song,” explains the curly-haired Dr. Boulton. In her fifty-thousand-word thesis, Ms. Boulton analyzes these insertions and how they are
related to the narrative structure.

With a B.A. from the College of New Rochelle, an M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania, and a
consuming interest in French literature, Ms. Boulton is indeed a “literary critic.”

Her husband, a historian in his second year of teaching at Davidson, sits across from her against a backdrop of
books. Dr. Boulton speaks of the International Courtly Literary Society to which they both belong. Both husband and wife will
read papers when the society convenes in April.

Dr. Boulton, a Canadian who was educated at the Universities of Toronto and Pennsylvania and at St. John’s College of
Oxford, studies how the readers of courtly love literature tried to imitate the art of the romances they read. “It’s
rather like someone trying to imitate James Bond,” Dr. Boulton alludes, as he tries to explain the problems of emulating
court culture. Ms. Boulton is preparing a paper on a French story that, as she explains between sips of tea,
is almost “anti-court culture.” The reading of papers is not new to either Dr. Boulton. Both husband and wife belong
to the Davidson Faculty Research Group. The latter consists of about twenty Davidson professors and their spouses. About once a
month, the group convenes and a member reads a paper. For example, Dr. Maydole introduced his idea of a “Modal
Logic Proof for the Existence of God” to this group. And it was to this group that Ms. Boulton read
the introduction to her thesis.

Although the thesis employs most of Ms. Boulton’s time, writing is not her only interest. Backed by a New York
State Teaching Certificate, Ms. Boulton has applied for a position with a college or university language department. In her field
of specialization, French medieval literature, there are nine teaching positions in the country.

Bert Houle and Sophie Wibaux, a mime duo from the Loretto-Hilton Repertory Theatre of St. Louis, will be in residency
at Davidson College Monday through Wednesday, February 14-16.

The duo will perform in Hodson Hall Monday at 7 pm and Tuesday in Love Auditorium at 8 pm, as
well as hold an open workshop Wednesday at 2:30 pm in the Union.

Houle and Wibaux developed strong mime technique at the Etienne Decroux Mime School in Paris. They’ve enhanced what is normally
accepted as mime with an innovative style that dramatizes myths, comments on the times, and deals with dance and sculpture.

“What is amazing is how the players manage to apply the concrete language of movement and gesture to the realm
of ideas, tense drama or philosophical investigation,” according to Giles M. Fowler of the Kansas City Times.

“In the second act of pantomimes, Houle and Wibaux prove to have an equally mature sense of the comic,” he
continued.

“What these two young talented mimes offer is a total theatrical experience,” said Larry Lusk of the Lincoln Evening Journal.

At the recent convention of the Modern Language Association, Ms. Boulton was interviewed by Carlton College and Stanford University. The
latter interview was especially satisfying, “as in that league it is flattering just to be spoken to!” she smiles. However,
she currently concentrates on reading a romance a day for her thesis. And should anyone want to do an Independent
Study on medieval literature, she would be delighted to oblige.

MAUREEN BOULTON relaxes from her role as literary critic.

COMBINATION SUGGESTIONS:
TWO FROM GROUP A AND ONE FROM GROUP B

VEGETARIAN SPECIAL:
ONIONS, GREEN PEPPERS, ALFALFA SPROUTS,

SO’S YOUR MOTHER
EVERYTHING BUT ANCHOVIES

PEREGRINE PIZZA

CHEESE PIZZA
TASTY ADDITIONS:

ANCHOVIES
HAM
SAUSAGE
PEPPERONI
GROUND BEEF
MUSHROOMS
ZUCCHINI
ALFALFA SPROUTS
ONIONS
GREEN PEPPERS

DELIVERY

MON TUES WED SUN
SPM-10PM

THURS FRI SAT
SPM-1AM

9-inch
$2.00
.25
.50
.80
$3.00
$3.95

12-inch
$3.00
.40
.40
.40
$1.30
$4.00
$4.95

16-inch
$4.20
.40
.40
.40
$1.30
$5.25
$6.25

15% EXTRA TO YOUR DOOR DAVIDSON-CORNELIUS
