January 21, 1977 The Davidsonian

Women’s house to add diversity
By BILL BARNETT
Editorial Page Editor

The Council on Campus and Religious Life soon faces an important decision. Two student groups have applied to the Patterson Court Council for permission to organize an eating house on the Court next year. This new house would occupy Rusk House, which is presently being used by ARA Slater to serve a number of purposes.

The first group is composed entirely of freshmen and is headed by Robert Payne. The second group is composed of women from all of the classes and is led by Angie Wright and Margaret Herman. Both groups have sufficient commitments to make the house feasible, and both are dedicated enough to make it a reality. However, upon careful consideration of the matter, it is evident that the “women’s” group is the better alternative.

There are several reasons why the “women’s” house is the best idea. First, the women at Davidson have no social organization which is designed specifically to suit their needs. Males have the option of joining either an all-male on-campus fraternity, an all-male off-campus fraternity (if they receive a bid), or a coed eating house. As of right now, though, the only opportunity a female has is to join a coed eating house. It would only seem fair that if males can join all-male groups, then females should also have that choice.

The argument which then occurs is that an all-female eating house would be discriminatory against males, a violation of the Patterson Court regulations. In reality, though, this is not a problem at all. The house could be chartered as a non-discriminatory eating house, but also stating that its intention is to cater to the female population. Thus, any hard-headed men who still wanted to join would be forewarned that they were not wanted and probably would never really become a functioning member of the house.

There are other reasons for an all-female eating house. The girls complain that the diets in coed houses are not set up with them in mind. The diet in an all-female house would be arranged to suit their needs—more salads and fruit with less of the starchy, fattening foods that men tend to enjoy. Beyond the freshman hall, girls have few opportunities to have and enjoy exclusively female companionship. They are thrust into a situation where they are outnumbered by males about three to one, and many girls lament the fact that there are no facilities to create any unity among their female classmates. Not all of the girls feel this way, but the point is that this opportunity has not been available in the past. No women would be forced to join the all-female eating house, but that privilege would at least be available.

Another of the complaints people have about an all-female eating house is that it would soon become a sorority, with all of a sorority’s undesirable aspects such as excluding some girls from membership. No one can predict the future, but the girls who have organized the house say that it will be chartered in such a way that it would not become a sorority. They add that a sorority is usually a social center which turns outward to fraternities, etc., while their house would turn inward upon itself for more female interaction.

Letters to the editor

AT OUR EATING HOUSE WE BELIEVE IN SELF-SELECTION. NATURALLY, GUYS WE LIKE GET A SPECIAL RECOMMENDATION TO JOIN US. BUT ANYONE IS FREE TO SIGN UP, JOIN, AND EVEN STAY... WE'LL JUST MAKE THEM WISH THEY'D NEVER BEEN BORN.

Social scene still stinks

To the Editor:
Re: “Social Scene Stinks”
In response to what you said, Chuck, I agree but I disagree.I agree that there are some obvious and disturbing things wrong with the social scene at Davidson. A lot of them leave people frustrated in a number of different ways. But, I think there are some important factors that you may have overlooked (though, for the most part, the ones you mentioned made sense to me). First, I think we face some obvious problems in reconciling the expectations that our culture has been blaring at us and what life is really like. Especially the expectations and models for physical involvement. Our whole culture, from theatre, television, and film on down to shampoo commercials and car ads, seems sometimes to be programming us to expect instant, gratuitous, physical gratification (sex if you like, on some level). I think in dealing with our own frustrations and then the tensions and weirdness of relationships here, we'll never get very far without first recognizing the forces and emotions that our culture’s onslaught has stirred up in us. One reason why the guys are probably more frustrated is that we’re more susceptible to this sort of stimulus.

Secondly, you dealt with the problem of how “small minds here...assume relationships.” I think this problem is possibly tied pretty closely to the first. Physical expression is also communication. Different levels of physical expression communicate different levels of commitment and relationship. But you can lie with any form of communication. You can make a false statement as easily (perhaps more easily) with your body as with your mouth. We need to think about how seriously we take the message of our physical actions. More directly to the problem: when people observe certain kinds of physical expression between two people, they are going to assume that a relationship exists. Because that’s what those two people are saying. It’s what their actions mean. Those actions mean things because of who we (human beings) are. Perhaps we need to be a little slower in making certain expressions without a corresponding level of commitment. Without that, people get hurt, as people almost always do when we mislead. I speak in confession (and what I hope is concern), not accusation. Maybe this hasn’t spoken directly to the issue you raised in your column, Chuck, but I felt prompted to write. Anybody else got any ideas?

Robert G. Shearer '77
Davidson College

Chartering an all-female eating house would benefit the college as well as the girls who are in it. It would help ease the strain of overcrowding on Patterson Court, both by offering about thirty-five new spaces to freshmen, and by easing the burden on some of the coed houses already on the court. Payne’s group would also open up new spaces for freshmen, but it hasn’t yet demonstrated that it would attract anyone from already existing houses. The most important thing an all-female house would do, though, is add a measure of diversity to Patterson Court, and the whole college in general. Patterson Court would definitely benefit from this new alternative. More importantly, though, is that Davidson would benefit. The college is still adjusting to the changes wrought by coeducation, and chartering an all-female house would be a positive step in completing this adjustment.

DiCenzo protests vehemently

To the Editor:

What?!

Regarding Mr. Kennon’s article on the social system in The Davidsonian issue of January 13, 1977:

Guy P. DiCenzo ’79
Davidson College

ETCETERA
121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

JEANS FOR MEN AND LADIES
SALE ON MEN’S KNIT SHIRTS
SALE ON LADIES’ PANTS
NEW SHIPMENT OF VICEROY JEANS

Hours: 10:00-5:30 Mon.-Sat.
Closed Wednesdays