December 16, 1977 Sidelines The Davidsonian

Davidson athletics: a reflection

It is common for a senator or president, when his time of service comes to an end, to recall events
and give his opinion of what is to come. Although only self-elected, I, too, would like to make some comments,
not on political happenings, but on something closer to home - Davidson athletics.

When I first strayed from the banks of the muddy Mississippi in September 1973, I did not know what to
expect from Davidson except football teams that passed almost every down, but seldom won, and basketball teams famous for their
success. Things changed. Having come from a part of the country where football is the king of college sports, it
was a new experience to come to a place where football’s role was limited to being something one put up
with until the start of basketball season. The team in 1973 was like the others Dave Fagg had coached -
few victories and lots of passes. But that year was more important to the future of Davidson football than the
past had been, because of a decision by the trustees. While the Wildcats were in Colorado to face the Air
Force Academy, it was decided that Davidson would no longer be the smallest school playing major college football, but would
slide down to the more realistic Division II level. The trustees had tried to do the same thing a decade
earlier to Lefty Dreisell and the basketball program, but the Lefthander broke the meeting up by leading his squad to
an on-the-road win over Ohio State, a national power at the time. Fagg was not so lucky - Davidson lost
to Air Force. Fagg left his alma mater after that decision for a spot at Georgia Tech, and in came
Ed Farrell from Bridgeport, Conn., with a history of success. His winning in the North did not carry over easily
to the South. No one expected a miracle, which was good because there was not one coming. But the situation
has been in the realm of reality.

Terry Holland delivered what was expected my first season in association with the Wildcats. But, as hard as it may
seem now, another 20-win season was not. Perhaps Holland knew what was going to happen in the years ahead, because
he left for Virginia in the spring. The reins of the program were left in the hands of his assistant,
Bo Brickels. Brickels had four starters returning, but left the Wildcats woefully lacking new talent. Brickels’ first team should have
done better than the 7-19 mark it finished with, but with six freshmen his second year, the 5-21 was not
excusable, but at least understandable. Brickels was and still is as friendly a guy as you would ever want to
meet, but after two losing seasons a change was needed. But what Davidson got for a coach was not what
was needed. Gary Walters of Dartmouth was first selected, but fortunately for the future of the Davidson program, he left
shortly thereafter, afraid of the pressure he was getting. If Walters had stayed, I am afraid Davidson would have been
playing Washington & Lee and Hampton-Sydney in the future instead of Notre Dame and St. John’s. Walters’s passing gave Davidson
a chance to find a coach who could handle the pressure and bring the program back to its former glory.Davidson,
the energetic Dave Pritchett, a man widely known for his recruiting abilities. Transfers and a late start recruiting left Pritchett
without much to work with in his first year, but the hope for a return to the top was rekindled.
A good recruiting effort, highlighted by Chris Dodds, has given Pritchett a base to build on, so that dreams of
a winning season are within reach. These are, in a condensed form, the changes Davidson has seen since I first
arrived in Mecklenburg County. But the question of what is going to happen in the future still looms.

It was a disappointing 18-9 season for the supporters who longed for more. Progress has been made not only in
football and basketball this year, but also in the minor sports. However, I am not going to proclaim that it
will be all glory from here. The corner that needs to be turned has not been reached yet. What happens
in 1978 will determine the success or failure of Davidson sports for the next five years. It will be a
sparse recruiting year, but true, football has made great strides in the last two years and finally there will be
a squad loaded with upperclassmen this fall. A winning season is probable. But the Wildcats need to prove themselves against
Division II competition. Running wild over Guilford and Washington & Lee improves the statistics, but those victories are meaningless when
one considers that the goal of the program is to challenge for the Division II national championship.

As far as basketball is concerned, this recruiting year and the start of next season will affect the future success
of the program more than whether the team wins 10 or 14 games this year. With so many young players,
the Wildcats will be erratic for most of this year. Still, several gaps in the lineup remain, and if Pritchett
and his staff can fill them with new players this year, it could very well be happy days again. But
the coaching staff is going to have to learn what qualifications Ed White expects from recruits, work with him, and
realize that it is useless to waste time on players like Zam Frederick, now at South Carolina after signing with
Davidson but not getting accepted. The conflicts between the athletic department and the administration are unnecessary.

The future success of minor sports at Davidson is limited by having non-scholarship programs. I am not saying that scholarships
should be given, but it should be realized that dominance in the conference cannot be expected. Good, hard-working coaches, which
Davidson has now, will be able to field competitive teams and achieve some success, but, for example, the days of
annual conference tennis championships are over. Occasionally, a contender in a minor sport will arise, but on the whole, the
value of third and fourth place conference finishes against scholarship programs should be appreciated.

Davidson has finally reached a point where the years of rebuilding might always say wait until next year will be
able to point proudly to the season at hand. I hope I'm right.

BANK SERVICES FORUM
Wednesday, January 11, 1978
7:00-8:00 P.M.
Board Room at Piedmont Bank
Sponsored by the Student Advisory Board
Refreshments Served
Mark this on your 1978 calendar.

Board Members:
Susan Baynard '78
Paul Bradley '79
Joe Craig '78
Tim Goodell '79
Burkley Mann '80
