September 30, 1977

Newell has taken charge of what Davidson became interested in through the humanities professor Larry Ligo. She became acquainted with the subject, having almost taken more courses than anything else. She extends her knowledge to her gallery work in town. Of her one teacher, she says, "We do well with what we have." Professor Ligo is personable; his art history gave me such an understanding of so much else—You see, it's not just a painting—there's so much happening in society to make sense of.

One of Davidson's studio art majors concurred, “I wish it would expand... more professors and a broader curriculum. I think it should grow bigger—but not too big.” Newell showed hope for the department, “The growth since I’ve been here is encouraging.” Yet some majors feel the growth has not resulted in a growth in student support. Kimmel comments, “Most people’s visual experience is so limited there is not nearly the appreciation here which would be so easy to learn.” But the lack of support does not bother George King. “For me, art is a religious experience. It’s the ‘god-trip’ all the way. You take some paint, create the universe, sit back on the seventh day and say: ‘That is good.’”

By ROGER FARABEE
Staff Writer

What is the role of music at Davidson College? Who does it serve and what are the goals? Is it truly like the position of the other Fine Arts in many schools: simply a token sector of the Liberal Arts whole? These are the important questions to be considered in an examination of music at Davidson.

The music program here is designed first for the students. For the non-music majors, the department offers instruction in Applied Music (private instrumental training), a music appreciation course, and participation in the various campus musical groups. The music major has these same choices with the exclusion of music appreciation, plus the courses specified for majors in the college catalog. Applied music, at present, is available in organ, piano, voice, and brass. If interest is shown in other instruments, musicians from Charlotte will be made available for lessons whenever possible. A wide slate of events including the Sacred Music Convocation, student and faculty recitals, and the Chamber Music Series are presented by the music department.

So what is the music program’s place in this particular liberal arts environment? Professor Donald B. Plott, chairman of the music department, feels that “The administration’s view of the department is certainly not token. We have never,” says Plott, “had any needs that were not met as soon as it was financially possible by the administration.” Plott feels that, according to the budget reports, financial support of the music department is adequate to cover the performing groups as well as the course offerings.

The student apathy concerning the music department provides some basis for the possible “souvenir status” of the department. One not involved in any of the musical activities or courses would not realize, according to Dr. Plott, “About a quarter of the student body is directly involved with the music department in some way during the school year.” The department’s main problem, at present, continues to be one of space and manpower. In its nearly 50-year history, the music department has grown substantially, making for inadequate practice facilities and an extreme strain on the listening library. Plans for expansion to Cunningham are in the works and will follow under Davidson’s 1987 program.

Although the number of music majors is relatively low, 15 people this year, compared to other departments on campus, it is not non-productive or in a state of decline. One must consider the difficulties of being a music major in a highly competitive environment. Dr. William D. Lawing notes, “People do not realize what a music major in trumpet must go through.”At least five hours per week are involved with ensemble work, not to mention the extra 7-14 hours per week of necessary individual practice. The same, of course, holds true for music majors in other areas. Time becomes the main factor as one tries to reconcile his practice requirements with the academic demands of a vigorous liberal arts institution. For the music major, the department stresses a double focus. Applied music, or performance and composition, as well as musicology, or the academic study of music, constitute the two areas of emphasis. According to Professor Wilmer Welsh, "I do not know of any institution like Davidson which is doing what we are trying to do." Generally, at other institutions, the emphasis is placed on musicology, often to the exclusion of performance. One receives a more varied and flexible knowledge of his craft because of this double emphasis. This preparation is very much oriented toward motivation. The Music department strives to blend specialty for majors into liberal arts to cater to all levels of memory, according to Dr. Plott. Out in the world, competition becomes very severe as music schools continue to turn out masses of graduates. The person educated in the liberal arts environment, while possessing many advantages, does have some disadvantages when competing against the conservatory-trained person. Naturally, there are deficiencies in areas where the conservatories are able to spend more time in in-depth examinations and studies of musical trends and developments; but as a whole, according to Dr. Welsh, "The Davidson student ends up almost as well-prepared in music as the conservatory student and much better prepared in his ability to handle ideas, musical and other."

The music major at Davidson, in many ways, has an advantage over the conservatory-trained musician. He has the benefit of a wide-ranging education that will hopefully enrich his understanding of his art. The ultimate point, however, is that for a music major to be successful at Davidson, he must be very well motivated. Because of the competitive job market, the musician lacking in self-discipline simply will not make it. One learns to discipline oneself here where the time is scarce and must be utilized to its fullest advantage. The liberally educated musician is better equipped to handle his profession.

Zimmerman said, "Thus, the advantages of the liberal arts philosophy should be apparent to those whose major field is in the arts." Studio art majors at Davidson also take relatively as much art history, while at another school, they might only gain a smattering by means of incidental exposure. "It is the same thing with music; we approach the study of it in a liberal arts setting. Of course, music majors take theory, harmony, composition, etc., yet they also come to understand the social milieu in which music evolved," he added.

Zimmerman readily admitted that Davidson badly needs new facilities in the arts, and College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. readily concurred: "It is very important for the College to make the sort of strong statement in the arts as it does in other academic areas. Things are relative with respect to time, and when Cunningham Fine Arts Building was completed a few years back, it looked magnificent. But obviously, the burgeoning of the arts has made it inadequate now," he said.

Spencer said the administration's one objective in plans is improvements in the arts. "The drama department, in cooperation with (Director of the Physical Plant) Grover C. Meetze, has drawn up two tentative plans," said Spencer. "Plan One would decide what to do with the space made available in Cunningham after the visual arts department moves out. Plan Two would involve the enlargement of Cunningham in some way, if this were found to be necessary." However, Spencer indicated that these plans would probably not be carried out in the near future, and so Davidson fine arts students and staff must be prepared to continue to "broaden the horizons of Davidson students" in existing, cramped conditions.