March 25, 1977
The Davidsonian

Letters to the Editor

Kello calls reporting inadequate

To the Editor:

In the last issue of The Davidsonian there are, in my opinion, at least two articles containing misleading overstatements which
call for further comment.

First, in a front-page article dealing with the hiring of new faculty you state that “Overall there has been very
little student participation in the selection of the new professors. A few informal meetings were the extent of it.” You
also include a statement, attributed to a member of the English Department, that candidates were not asked to teach any
classes. It is not clear from the article whether the latter statement is intended to apply only to the English
Department or more broadly.

These statements are manifestly not true of at least one department, which is responsible for hiring two of the seven
new faculty members. The Psychology Department has had its candidates present a colloquium, providing an opportunity for the department both
to learn about the candidate’s scholarly research interests and to observe him in something approximating the teaching situation. In each
case our students have been urged to attend these lectures, and to meet privately or in groups with the candidates
on a formal or informal basis. Further, our students have been asked to pass on their evaluations of the candidates
to a student advisory group for the department, with such evaluations being carefully considered by departmental faculty in evaluating candidates.
I might note that, to my disappointment, student participation in this process has been spotty. In our case, at least,
the lack of student participation in the evaluation of faculty candidates has not been for lack of invitation.

Thus, at least in the department with which I am most familiar, we have urged student participation in the candidate
selection process, we have not limited such participation to “a few informal meetings,” and our candidates have given colloquia. You
ignore these facts in your article, leaving the exaggerated implication that, once again, in the selection of new faculty as
in other areas, the student is always bypassed.

The “Opinion” editorial on page 7 states that when faculty advisors and hall counselors encourage freshmen to “...get their area
requirements out of the way...,” they do not produce a “...well-rounded student ready after adequate exposure to decide in which
field of study he would like to concentrate...,” presumably a central goal of such advice. Rather, you go on to
say, they produce “...a bored, frustrated, and confused student who has managed to take dilettantish courses such as Chemistry 21
or other courses which pass his area requirement without giving him any real knowledge.”

What a smug generalization! Presumably, the point being made is that introductory level survey courses do not now accomplish their
purpose, and are an uninteresting, uninformative waste of time. One of your two proposed solutions, that of suggesting that students
spread their area requirements across their four years, does not address the point; surely a crummy course is a crummy
course whether it is taken in the freshman year or in the senior year. Further, your first proposed solution can
raise serious problems for students. To be sure, some students do wait until the senior year to take some area
requirements, and still do well.

National Editor’s Note: The following letter was written by three either current or past presidents of the strongly national fraternities
on campus, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, and Kappa Alpha.

To the Editor:

The recent self-selection lottery has once again given rise to the various arguments, both pro and con, concerning this important
facet of Davidson life. As one faction directly concerned with this policy, we would like to make our views known.

It appears that Greek fraternities at Davidson are often the fall guys for many of the inadequacies of the social
and eating systems of the college. While many students are objective in their opinions and ideas concerning fraternities, a substantial
number of students seem to adopt the ideas of certain anti-fraternity factions without thorough analysis of this position. Unfortunately, national
fraternities are often vilified for the actions of several individual members—the gamut runs from variations on egg-tossing to blatant vandalism
to drunken brawls. We do not deny the existence of some of these so-called “atrocities” yet their extent is usually
nowhere near what the rumors claim. Further, many of the more intangible complaints—such as limiting social life, elitism, and moral
degeneration—are founded primarily on the varying ideas of student “philosophers” and the “omnipotent” rumblings of the various offices in the
Chambers building.

Davidson College fosters elitism by the very basic policies of admission and academic standards which permeate student life. As for
moral degeneration, surely we cannot hold one body responsible for student corruption, either in sum or in part. The aspects
of social life connected with fraternities are part of the more positive yet often neglected characteristics of national groups. A
sample of any fraternity party will show a myriad of groups represented, not solely the brothers of that group. Indeed,
fraternities (along with eating houses) provide a needed variation in social life on campus. The Phi Delt basketball marathon along
with the SAE bikeathon constitute two of the largest single fund-raising efforts at Davidson. Yet their existence,Along with the trips
and projects at the Boys Home and local nursing homes, are often pushed aside for the more sensational news of
the "drunken orgies" and pledge activities. An inquiry at the alumni office will quickly show that the largest student network
of alumni relations rests within the national fraternities.

ATO tank courts war

To the Editor:

I understand that the other day certain members of ATO went out looking to purchase a 1943 Chrysler M-4 30-ton
Sherman tank. I wish to say that I deplore this escalation in the War for the Supremacy of Patterson Court.
They can accomplish their objectives with eggs the same as everyone else. Besides, think of what the treads would do
to the Court’s already blighted lawn. And if they got careless and left it double-parked, who could tow it away?
Why don’t they grow up and use funnelators and run naked like any normal person?

Charles B. Jones, ’79.

Ah, but the crux of the matter—self-selection. For the record, the undersigned are opposed to many specifics of the Committee
of 18 report (the origin of self-selection); yet, we try to abide by this document in principle—if compliance is lacking,
the Dean of Students will quickly inform the curious that punishment and citation is quick. In addition, the report adopted
by the Board of Trustees in 1970 seeks quickly to state that fraternities are an important and valuable aspect of
Davidson life. Supposedly, the policy of self-selection is coming up for review by the Trustees—this is a time for everyone
to reconsider this policy, regardless of their current position. The undersigned would like to see some arrangement where national fraternities
would be allowed exceptions to the lottery system, either totally or in part. Eating clubs and national groups on campus
are different, even though Davidson students constitute membership in both. It is these differences which create a more diverse atmosphere
at Davidson, and provide multiple pathways for the new and old student alike.

Greg Anders '77
Peter Green '77
Stuart Sanders '77
Davidson College

P.S. The views expressed above do not necessarily form the official policies of the fraternities represented.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.

Just fine. But, in my experience, students who long defer their area requirements, 1) often have a hard time getting
the area requirement courses they want or need, 2) often complain rightly that taking such a course prevents their taking
another course in their major, or in some other interest area, which they won’t have another chance to take, 3)
often lay part of the blame on faculty advisors who were not really in touch with who they were and
what courses they were taking, and who could have helped them avoid their “problem”, and 4) often do less well
as a group in introductory level courses than do freshmen and sophomores (it would certainly be interesting to explore the
reasons for that).

I have found that my freshman advisees have enough time in the first two years to complete most, or even
all, of their area requirements, and still have room on their schedules for independent study courses of interest, and more
focused work on their major or potential major.

Your second proposed solution, which does address the presumed point, is to encourage professors to reevaluate their tedious and useless
introductory courses, and to "...make them informative rather than boring." You further state that "It is common knowledge that no
professor likes to teach introductory classes...." That statement leaves me almost speechless. Common knowledge? No professor? How about this one—It
is common knowledge that you can’t believe anything you read in any college newspaper. Your equally indefensible overstatement does more
than merely insult the intelligence of your readership; I feel it does a great disservice to those Davidson faculty who
do really enjoy (even love) taking students through the beginning course, and who at least try to keep those courses
informative and exciting.

The thought of all those introductory courses being inflicted upon students "like bad medicine or a joke" would make me
feel awful, if I believed it. But I just don’t believe it, based on what my students and advisees tell
me. I hear that some introductory courses (like some upper-level courses) are bad, most are O.K., and at least a
few are great. And students here quickly learn which courses fall into which category. Again I believe you overstate your
case. I think there are some valid and important points raised in both of these articles. But, you greatly weaken
your case and draw attention away from the issues you should focus on when you couch those points in overstatement.
You may thereby polarize rather than inform your readership.

Such casually delivered overgeneralization seriously detracts from the quality of the paper as a whole. It is not hard-hitting journalism;
it is playing fast and loose with the facts. In my opinion you have lately fallen short of meeting your
obligation to do careful research and then present balanced and objective reports and editorials.

John E. Kello
Asst. Professor of Psychology
Davidson College
