December 9, 1977

Ine Lawasonan * 300 Collins

Editorship will stress broader scope, greater student voice

[Continued from page 1]

and an international news column that would summarize important world affairs of the week. “The Davidsonian cannot and should not
attempt to cover comprehensively national and international news, but many Davidson students complain that they don’t have time to follow
current events. Such a column would be an ideal method of dealing with that complaint. A student who normally keeps
abreast of such issues could compile relevant information, and it could be handled in a manner similar to the present
‘News at a glance’ feature,” he continued.

Collins insists that the news does not have to be dull and unimaginative and he wants to instill a measure
of creativity and spontaneity in the news section of the paper. “By cultivating a wide range of writing styles within
the general guidelines of The Davidsonian’s technique, the news can be interesting.”

Collins would like to see the editorial pages also deal with a broader range of issues. “Continuing the theme of
world affairs, a student interested in a particular issue could write a comprehensive analysis of a situation and inject his
own opinions and interpretations of the problem. I realize this has been attempted in the past, but not on a
continuing and current basis. The recent article by Youssef Abagui giving an international student’s interpretation of a situation involving his
native country is an excellent example of this idea. Now the possibilities of similar situations with other students should be
explored,” Collins said.

In the area of sports, Collins calls for “more interpretative articles and less of a rehash of last week's game.”
He indicated that sports should not necessarily be limited to the back pages of the paper. “I would like to
see us run some sports stories on page one. If a Davidson team does well in a sport, let’s put
it up front.” He added that this concept is not limited to major sports either. He wants to see comprehensive
reporting of so-called minor sports and not to relegate them to small articles dealing with a particular event. “For The
Davidsonian’s weekly format, it is impossible to cover last week’s game like it happened yesterday. The trend that has already
begun toward sports columns should be emphasized,” he said.

He would like to see a series of in-depth studies of all teams competing in the Southern Conference for a
given sport, for example. This series would involve not only articles about Davidson but also about our opponents. These columns
would not just include basketball, but tennis, soccer, swimming, whatever the sport. Collins would like to revive the sports feature
“athlete of the week” in order to recognize and commend outstanding athletes. He would encourage editorial opinion and columns covering
sports on the editorial pages as well.

Collins feels that the features area of the paper could also benefit from a broader scope. “The features articles too
often only deal with Davidson events. But the city of Charlotte is only thirty minutes away and often offers Davidson
students many exciting entertainment opportunities. The restaurant guide was a good beginning, but what about Charlotte theatre? There could also
be articles about Charlotte specialty shops that could eventually generate advertising possibilities for the paper,” he continued. He praised the
features trend toward highlighting unusual personalities. “People are interesting only if we bother to find them. The Davidsonian’s function should
be to introduce students to these interesting people who are usually interested in them.”

Collins believes that an important key to all these plans is coordination.

Duncan pledges responsible, objective Davidsonian

[Continued from page 1]

on their hands; freshmen, sophomores, and juniors who recognize the wisdom of complementing academics with active participation in extracurricular activities.

Broadening the Perspective

“I intend to set up lines of communication with other college and university newspapers (UNC, UVA, Wake, Duke, Rice, Williams,
Haverford, to name a few). My plan is to exchange newspapers and ideas with these schools with an eye towards
improving the quality of The Davidsonian.”

Duncan is also considering affiliating The Davidsonian with the Associated College Press, the Collegiate Press Service, or another of the
national organizations that serve college newspapers. “Such affiliation would bring The Davidsonian out of its little corner of the world
and into the national mainstream. The staff would then be able to view Davidson events in their proper perspective, shunning
irresponsible overreaction.”

If elected, Duncan plans to invite professional journalists to the campus regularly to critique The Davidsonian and discuss career possibilities
in journalism. “Face-to-face evaluation by these professional visitors will encourage excellence. The professionals know good journalistic writing when they see
it—they can teach the staff how to compose precise, clear, organized articles.”

“I will reintroduce The Davidsonian into national competition with other newspapers. For more than two decades, the Associated Press rated
The Davidsonian an ‘All-American’ newspaper (the highest distinction). In recent years, we have not submitted The Davidsonian to analysis by
such organizations.”

Organization and Improvement

Duncan is armed with many other ideas—reorganizing staff operations to promote efficiency; improving the newspaper’s appearance, developing a polling procedure
to gauge student opinion, regularizing distribution, and expanding circulation. “We must restructure office and print shop organization so we can
eliminate time wasted and undertake the programs I propose,” he explains. “The appearance of the newspaper should be professionalized. I
will concentrate particularly on eliminating spelling errors and using more interesting layouts.”Photographs and graphics. Duncan is also interested in discovering
the students’ attitudes on a number of subjects and will test the feasibility of two polling procedures. First, we could
poll by telephone, calling randomly selected numbers. “The Davidsonian should coordinate its efforts more closely with all campus organizations, Union
Board, SGA, and particularly with WDAV. With the expansion of the radio station into such areas as campus and local
news, this coordination between media could be invaluable,” he explained.

The particular tool needed to implement these plans, Collins indicated, is people. “The Davidsonian is the College's newspaper. Its staff
should be limitless. For the paper to expand its scope, it must expand its staff. The paper includes everyone. The
second alternative is to insert printed polls into copies of the newspaper, welcoming responses from any of our readers,” Duncan
says.

“Barring mechanical failures, we will deliver The Davidsonian to the doorstep of every on-campus student on Thursday night. I plan
to eliminate the human errors that delayed distribution until Friday on several occasions earlier this year.”

Section-by-section Plans

In a section-by-section rundown, Duncan presents more of his ideas for the newspaper and reveals personal attitudes that would influence
his approach to the editorship.

NEWS

“My years of Davidsonian newswork have taught me that the newspaper only rarely has an opportunity to break a ‘hard’
news item, to tell the entire campus something completely new. Since many students have a basic knowledge of what happens
at Davidson, it is the newspaper's responsibility to go beyond the mere repetition of facts. The Davidsonian must research and
interview thoroughly, covering all sides of an issue, devoting particular attention to the impact and long-term significance of news events.
News articles must present information in an unbiased manner, allowing the reader to reach his own conclusions.

“I will carefully choose the topics for my personal editorials, weeding out the trivial and shunning overreaction. When pointing out
Davidson's flaws, I will offer constructive suggestions to correct those flaws, for I believe that criticism is useless unless it
is paired with a presentation of realistic alternatives. My editorials will focus primarily on correcting problems at Davidson, but I
will be quick to praise and encourage those individuals or groups who make a significant positive contribution to life at
the College.

“I will urge students and faculty to submit opinion columns and Letters to the Editor, and will especially invite criticism
from those who believe that the newspaper is in any way neglecting its responsibilities to Davidson College. Our readers must
help us point out our flaws so we can work to correct them.”

FOCUS

“I see FOCUS as a news-editorial hybrid, a blending of straight news with news analysis and opinion. FOCUS should ask
probing questions about important issues of campus-wide interest; it should challenge the reader to study and to form an opinion.
I want to emphasize my desire to ensure that the paper involves everyone it possibly can. Every student can and
should have a voice in The Davidsonian.”

Collins feels that his experience on the paper will serve him well in the position of Editor. He has served
on the paper since his first weeks at Davidson. He has served as a news staff writer and later advanced
to the position of Assistant News Editor. He has had experience in the sports section as an action sports editor.
He currently serves as News Editor.

FEATURES

“Peopled with a larger staff of creative and innovative writers, the Features section presents The Davidsonian with its best opportunity
to ‘explore new frontiers,’” indicates Duncan. “Film, book, record, and restaurant reviews, articles on interesting personalities in the community, previews
of upcoming cultural events and entertainment in Davidson and the area, the Inside Art section—these and many other possibilities should
guarantee that Features is one of the most interesting parts of The Davidsonian.”

SPORTS

“A number of students turn first to the sports section, then read their way back through the rest of the
newspaper. I recognize the high level of interest in athletics at Davidson and as Editor will:
—improve coverage of Davidson's major sports by a) deemphasizing ‘dead’ rehashes of week-old events and stressing informational previews of upcoming
contests, and b) including special features on the coaches and athletes of the major sports.
—expand coverage of minor sports and club sports, where many devoted student-athletes too often labor in obscurity.
—continue the famous IMAC weekly recap, probably one of the most-read features in the newspaper.

EDITORIAL SECTION

—recruit a columnist (or columnists) to offer knowledgeable opinions about all of Davidson’s athletic programs and compare our teams to
conference and national competition. A good columnist is an essential complement to any sports section.
—direct the production of 4-page special editions at the outset of each term previewing the teams playing during that term.”

Credibility

Duncan emphasizes that “the Editor must never lose sight of the fact that his most important responsibility is to establish
The Davidsonian’s credibility, to foster respect for The Davidsonian as a legitimate journalistic institution, not ‘the students’ rag,’ as its
detractors label it. Students pay for The Davidsonian, and they have it thrust upon them every week. They have a
right to expect that the information in the newspaper is correct. Give me the opportunity to serve as Editor and
my staff and I will work diligently to produce a newspaper that is interesting, useful, and credible.”
