S « 8

Davidson offers two alternatives for students frustrated by lack of creative writing time

By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

‘Words alone are certain good,’’ maintained William Butler Yeats. But does creativity in their arrangement lie in a handy pen, scrap paper, and divine inspiration alone? Not quite. At Davidson, the creative writing program provides not only necessary instruction but a required creative outlet.

“Mr. Newman's class is good in that it gave me the excuse to write,” said Patsy Daniels, in reference to the seminar in creative writing held each winter term. Paul Baker Newman is a professor at Queen's College and conducts a three-hour seminar each week.

“The course is basically freelance,” Daniels added, “with the class time devoted to the reading of your work and criticism from your peers.” This criticism from other class members is perhaps the most advantageous aspect of the course. “It’s a scary thing to let your peers sit there and tell you that your story stinks,” stated Ann Wicker, “but you can't learn until you know what's wrong.”

“The criticism made me settle down, develop an image in my stories instead of just throwing one out. It helped me to create,” said Roger Brown. Frustration occurred in lack of time, said Ruth Williamson, “for sometimes I found I wanted outside attention.” Daniels added, “Mr. Newman is a fish out of water in that he could not tell me what I could utilize here as far as courses and special events are concerned.”

Yet, Davidson does provide an independent study in creative writing under several professors each term. “In independent creative writing, there are two good factors at work,” said Vereen Bell. “It forces discipline in work, writing every day upon you, and by operating on a one-to-one basis, the student gets candid feedback, both positive and negative, from someone whose opinion they respect.”

“In writing creatively, a person is not the best judge of his own writing. He simply cannot see his own,” maintains Professor of English Frank Bliss. “In this respect, adverse criticism is not only helpful, it is inevitable,” added Bliss. “It was mostly required to write and talk about it,” said Steve Peeples. “These conversations generally revolved around what scenes worked and did not work and why.”

“A difficult thing for most students to see is the immense value in revision; to learn how to rewrite, re-envision, to labor over a sentence or phrase,” added Bliss. “Most people take language for granted. It is a shock for people to discover how hard it is to write prose,” he said.

Professor of English Anthony S. Abbott concurred, “We really cannot teach a student how to write. We can only induce a creative environment where it is more possible to grow.” Cathy Landis added, “I never felt freer, for I was seriously writing for myself and was receiving constructive criticism on what I wanted to write.”

Upon agreement between the professor and student on a workable contract, the student begins writing, normally with referred assigned reading in the specific genre and style in which the student is interested. “By reading and rereading the works of an author you admire, the student becomes familiar with the ways in which he gets from sentence to sentence, image to image,” said Bliss.

Many students interested in creative writing feel that with the pressure of three courses in ten weeks, something must be compromised. Patsy Daniels concluded, “Creative Writing is a valuable thing here for there is not really an opportunity to let your creativity run wild. Pressure stifles creativity. In taking a course, you have to devote time to this; to keep a creative track with you.”

“I would have felt better if he had been closer to campus,” said Ruth Williamson, referring to the visiting Queens professor.

The Arts: part I

Opinion

Student Publication: Do we care?

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Davidson, for all its liberal arts emphasis, is not an art school. It doesn’t pretend to be. This may be the problem underlying the consistent vapidity of our student writing publications, for while the degree of student commitment to creative writing may be questionable, the Davidson community's is not: very few here care one way or the other.

Publishing is not, for any writer, an easy thing. You print your poem or short story and wait for praise, criticism, or, worst of all, indifference. It is indifference that seems to govern Davidson’s attitudes towards student publication despite those of us who are enthusiastic about writing or publishing. Not that people dislike student work, they simply don’t see enough of it to react—a problem which may, in large part, be laid before the editors, their advertising.

Colleges with full-blown undergraduate writing programs, Bard and Princeton for instance, run their own journals dedicated almost exclusively to student writing. Davidson publishes student work, specifically in Inklings, Inside Art, and The...Miscellany, but only a trickle, not enough to stimulate interest on a large scale. Inklings publishes only freshman work and is not distributed to the student body as a whole; Inside Art is filled principally by solicitation, and The Miscellany chooses what it will publish from close to two hundred manuscripts in which student writing tends to get lost or overshadowed. There is also the Vereen Bell Prize, dedicated exclusively to students. The prize, however, is only given once a year, and does not allow access to student manuscripts. Students have won the Vereen Bell Prize with what is presumably fine work and no one sees it. As a result, student writing is effectively hidden from those of the Davidson community who would like to see manuscripts from people besides those they know who write and write consistently. All this matters only if one is interested in the state of student writing at Davidson. But if one is, how does he or she go about seeing some of it? If the publication opportunities are limited and some of the better manuscripts are never seen, how can anyone speak with, criticize, or learn from those writing around him?

We could all wait until we meet in Byzantium, but that’s a bit impractical. For the moment, I would suggest an intensified announcement and advertising program for all student publications. Let Inside Art, especially, make its purpose—which is the publication of student work—clear, and publicize itself; publish a mid-year, perhaps, upperclass Inklings, and arouse more student interest in The Miscellany. More student poetry readings, with critical sessions following, might help, as well as workshops with visiting poets and editors who will help the publications as much as those students who wish to publish. The point is, if one wishes to circulate his work, he or she should be able to do it in something other than manuscript form, and to this end, the student writing publications at Davidson should be expanded and directed. Each of the publications I’ve spoken of has very little direction. Inside Art is low-profile to the point of being invisible, while the Inklings seems more of a scrapbook than a magazine. The Miscellany must decide whether its circulation is to remain limited to Davidson and its present fifteen subscribers or whether it wishes to expand into something larger and, hopefully, better. If a certain amount of solid effort is put into these, some fine student work may get published. At least it will give those of us who write the opportunity to find out who we are and sit down to talk. In one sense, that’s the point of publication: so other people can see your work and talk with you about it. Talk is great; indifference is about as bad as things can get.

Announcing: For the next two weeks, The Davidsonian will focus on the arts at Davidson. Being aware that the arts are an important if not mandatory aspect of the liberal arts education, we hope that FOCUS can inform the community about what is available and what is not available in this area as well as increase the excitement over the arts which they deserve. This week FOCUS concentrates on Drama and Creative Writing. Next week we shall cover Art and Music.

By A M

The Drama Department is presenting Shakespeare’s "Twelfth Night" as the Fall major production. It opens October 20th and runs through the 22nd with a matinee October 23rd. Professor Rupert T. Barber Jr. is directing, and Professor of Speech and Drama is designing the set.

Interdisciplinary Drama Students to Study Aspects of Dramatic Literature and Theatre Arts

By CHARLIE LAW
Staff Writer

Students interested in dramatic literature and theatre arts as academic pursuits will find enriched possibilities for study through a new program offered by the Center for Special Studies. Professor of Speech and Drama Rupert T. Barber, Jr., speaks enthusiastically of the Center’s Interdisciplinary Program in Dramatic Literature and Theatre, which, he says, meets a long-standing need at Davidson. Students wishing to study dramatic expression both as literature and on stage have in the past been frustrated by the absence of adequate course offerings in the field, he continued. Classics, English, and foreign language departments provide some exposure to dramatic literature, but students have found it difficult to schedule these courses while meeting the requirements of their majors.

“We have long needed a way to place the study of theatre and drama within our liberal arts framework,” said Professor of English Anthony S. Abbott, a member of the Center's faculty. Dramatic literature has been overshadowed by the English Department's emphasis on fiction and poetry, he claims, and “because this is a small, liberal arts college, a drama major is inappropriate.” Abbott and Dean of the Center for Special Studies Robert L. Avinger both stressed that the new program is not a stepping stone toward the establishment of a drama major at Davidson. Barber concurred, adding that the program, because of its interdisciplinary nature, functions...