December 9, 1977

Opinion
Youssef K. Abagui

The Egyptian revolution of 1952, which resulted in the expulsion of the king and royalty, brought a team of army officers who had led the revolution into the political scene. Nasser and Sadat were two of the fourteen officers who led the revolution. After numerous intrigues, Nasser became President of Egypt. New to the political scene and being an army officer with a limited perspective in this new field, he set out on big projects which most Egyptians today think is what led Egypt into its present misery and squalor.

Nasser was a charismatic figure with a strong personality. His very sons report that it was hard to look into his eyes. His enemies dreaded it. Nasser’s regime was infested with intrigues and corruption. He nationalized all the large land holdings, factories, and private enterprises. Instead, he appointed his favorites in key posts. This was fatal to the newly developing industrial area; army officers who knew very little besides using a gun were now appointed as heads of industrial plants. The latter, also coming from lower middle-class families, saw that it was a great chance for them to improve their economic lot, and therefore major embezzlements took place. The economy was heading for a drop.

In the first years of the revolution, Nasser sought the help and allegiance of the United States. When he presented the United States with a large and extravagant project of building a dam that cost billions, the United States, after having studied the project, rejected it. Nasser took the blow personally and took refuge in the Soviets, who were more than willing to sponsor a ten-year project. Today, the high dam is useless. It was said that it would increase agricultural land; it has not. It was also said it would bring electricity to villages, which have never seen a light after sunset; it has not. In fact, it promised a lot more, but none of it came true. On the contrary, the high dam has been very harmful to the land—it retains all the alluvium that the Nile brings in. Egypt’s crop, cotton, has diminished because of the lack of alluvium in the soil. Ancient monuments that have stood in upper Egypt for 5000 years have started to corrode during these past 20 years because of the high humidity level caused by the dam’s water reservoirs. The high dam, amongst many other projects, was one constructed under the pretext of personal prestige. The poor Egyptian farmer today still pays the price and so will his sons for many generations to come.

Through the sixties, Soviet influence wormed into Egypt until red was the dominant color. With red came a well-established dictatorship. The intellectual class and the nobility fled; those who stayed and opposed the regime were cut down. The press and mass media were controlled, censored, and dictated from the hierarchy. A period of brainwash took place; in schools, on television, in mosques—all condemned the United States—it had become the root of all evil, the source of imperialism. Radicalism was good. On this basis, threats of throwing the Jews into the sea were issued. Nasser never thought how, why, or with what.

Most of you have not experienced a dictatorship where...

---

Deck the halls, we all are back—'tis the season to be slack! The freshman hall counselors evidently are doing a very poor job of informing the Class of ’81 of the intricacies of the Davidson academic year, because I actually overheard some freshmen decline an invitation to go to Monday night’s basketball because they had to study. Fortunately, the College Union knows better. It realizes that the first three-tenths of the winter term is in actuality Davidson’s period of recess. It therefore scheduled a dozen or so “mini-courses” in various subjects from belly-dancing to southern cooking to aid students in their efforts to avoid work.

LETTERS
The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words.

The response to the mini-courses has been so good that I think it might be interesting to schedule other mini-courses in the spring when people really want to slacken up. There is a whole spectrum of interesting fields of study with an equally wide range of talented staff and faculty from whom the students could learn much. For instance, it would be a lot of fun to offer a course in “Hide and Seek.” After all, people do tend to get playful in the spring and Davidson students, with their compulsion for excellence in areas of peer competition, would no doubt respond to a course that taught the finer techniques of the game.

Originally, I thought the ladies at the College Laundry should teach the course. They certainly are uncanny with their consistent ability to keep some of my socks and underwear hidden forever. However, an even better instructor would be Dr. Hight of Davidson's Student Counseling Center. Indeed, it seems absurd to have instructors whose main forte is the mere losing of clothing, especially when someone is available who is capable of losing not just two sets of Graduate Record Examination fees but also the funds needed to ship them. Perhaps the fascinating field of study suggests...Your mail, your calls, your whole life is censored. Where even geographical movement is prohibited. To those who like freedom, it is an agony! The Russians supplied Nasser with weapons. They also supplied the experts that would operate them in case of air attack or defense. This is one of the reasons Sadat threw the Soviets out of Egypt. He did not particularly fancy the idea of consulting the Russians before launching any attack against Israel in 1967. Especially bear in mind that Soviet military intelligence knew what was going to happen on the 5th of June 1967. After 18 years of dominance, they were thrown out of their most influential base in the Middle East, Egypt. Throughout their stay, the Russians have never supplied Egypt with offensive weapons to match Israel’s power. As long as there was a no peace, no war situation, they were too strong, with the excuse of protection. The Soviets intend to form a crucial military line, and above all, ensure a commercial basis for their poor quality industries. The area’s geographic courses taught by Head Football Coach Ed Farrell. Those around Farrell are well aware (and I do mean well aware) of his self-acclaimed high I.Q. It would be so beneficial to the College community for him to share some of his enlightened philosophies. His belief in the well-rounded student-athlete and understanding of a student-athlete’s need for diversity runs so deep that he’s encouraged several players, the running backs in particular, to quit Davidson Football if they wish to pursue other sports. Indeed, his players respect him so much that whenever I ask them what they feel about him, I never get any response because they get so choked up with emotion they won’t speak. What little response I do get indicates he is somewhat of a father-figure, because he continually tells players to keep their problems “in the family.” A chance for Coach Farrell to share his deep understanding of human needs and diversity in a mini-course should not be overlooked. There are all kinds of other possibilities. Dr. Spencer could teach a seminar on “History of the Jewish Labor Movement,” Peter Nicholls could teach “Modern Ballroom Dancing,” and Basketball Coach Dave Pritchett could teach “The Calming Influences of Transcendental Meditation.” With courses like these, how...

Soviets muddle peace prospects. Access to the Red Sea, Indian Ocean, and Africa makes it more prone to Soviet greed. After their expulsion from Egypt (the Mother Land of the Arab World), the Soviets set out for other gullible political systems in the Arab world. Libya was one of the most succulent systems, and the easiest to digest whatever radical ideas the Soviets were selling. In Libya, a young colonel (Kadafi) had a coup against the King while the latter was on vacation. He was then declared president. Kadafi preached what Nasser had preached in the 60s, so the Soviets saw in him a figure to oppose Sadat. Sadat had done the opposite of what Nasser did. Instead of the Soviets, Sadat opened Egypt to further influences; instead of socialism, Sadat started free enterprise. He had overtly criticized the Soviets throughout the Arab World and ridiculed them, something Nasser never considered doing. The young colonel gave them military bases on the Mediterranean, he brought in their experts to run his army and industry. He also threw out all the foreigners and only kept Russians. I wonder if the oil-rich plutocracy of Libya would benefit more economically by opening its market to the whole world, or by only confining itself to one monopoly? The answer lies in who really gives the orders! In Syria, the radical Baath party rules. This party is as closely connected to the Soviets as were “Nasser’s Men” in Egypt. Their allegiance was demonstrated lately when Sadat decided to visit Israel; the Syrians were alarmed by his decision. The Syrian Prime Minister (Abdel Halim Khaddam) flew to the Soviet Union with no foreplans of a visit. They conferred and he returned. Syria would not support Sadat in his effort for peace. They called his move “treason.” The Soviets called it “a danger to peace.” (What peace?!) Whatever the Russians condemn, the Syrians and Libyans echo, as does the PLO. The PLO, however, has always been a small group who have no other support than the Russians. They supply the arms and also the situation for their use. They have the PLO fight Lebanon and take over the southern border facing Israel. To the Soviets, it is ideal to have more than two borders in conflict, especially when one of them is seeking an end to war, and the fourth border (Jordan) is royalist and will not tolerate the Soviets or their radical economy. By observing the peace talks today between Egypt and Israel, we see that the countries that oppose them most are the Syrians, the Libyans, the PLO, and the Soviets! They refuse to negotiate, they refuse to understand although they all stand a fair chance of negotiating and recovering their land (and above all, achieving peace). But still, they do not even want to sit and listen. They boycott the meetings instead! In whose benefit is this war? Is it in the favor of the thousands that die in war? Is it in the interest of underdeveloped countries to invest their incomes in weapons instead of using their resources to feed their impoverished and hungry people? Or is it in the interest of some third party that can only live on corpses?