The Davidsonian
January 28, 1977

Geach Go Ss leave cold Carolina

Each spring break large numbers of Davidson students flock to the south for the warm Florida sun and the fashionable tan that accompanies long days out on the beaches drinking beer. Will Miller and fellow cohorts of SAE have stayed at the same place for the past three years, “It’s kind of a dump but it’s cheap.” As long as you’re down there it really doesn’t make that much difference where you stay.

Why go to Daytona Beach? “There are several reasons—sun, sand, surf, that’s the first.” Next comes the women. “Most of the girls down there are from Northern colleges... it’s a break from Southern women.” As he pointed out, Northern women are different, “They’re not as hard to get to know.” “Northern girls buy us drinks plus you learn a lot of new dances from them.”

“Cheap drinks, that’s another reason (to go to Daytona Beach). Big Daddy’s sells mixed drinks for 35 cents during happy hour.” Daytona Beach is so popular because not only is it the closest beach warm enough at this time but also as Will said, “it’s got better night life than any beach I’ve been to.” “The main thing about Daytona is that other kids go there.” If you’re looking for academic-intellectual stimulation over break, forget it, the best thing about Daytona Beach is that “it’s relaxing, that’s what it’s all about... meeting people and having fun.”

Don’t let Vermont leave you out in the cold
By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

When opting for Vermont over Colorado for spring skiing the happy traveler must keep one thing in mind: this is the year of meager snow in the West, and most other happy travelers are also heading for New England. Surely spring crowds won't be as great as holiday crowds, but it isn’t wise to gamble with bed and board when the alternative is sleeping in a car at 10 below. Call ahead a day or two and you will hopefully be spared the ordeal of spending $13 for a bunk bed in a large room containing a dozen other bunks (not that the conditions were bad but for $13 one can sleep in the presidential suite of Mooresville’s own Dogwood Motel).

Not only has New England been blessed with a plethora of powder but most of the slopes have continuous snowmaking. Rates are reasonable, and most of the ski areas are large enough to absorb large crowds. Some names to consider are Stowe, Killington, Stratton, Sugarbush, et al., names which are in the long run every bit as prestigious as Aspen or Vail and with a lot more snow on the slopes, to boot.

So... what’s so great about Philly?
By KEVIN SHELLY
Special Projects Editor

Philadelphia is a fine place to visit in spite of a bad press, Frank Rizzo and American Legionnaire’s Disease. It’s a big city, but not nearly as overwhelming as New York. What is best about it are the neighborhoods and the most interesting one near center city is South Philly, where Frankie Avalon and The Fabian were born. You can tell there’s ethnic cohesiveness by the red, white and green flags that festoon every corner, usually with Frank Rizzo leaning over them.

Start by walking down 9th Street until you get to Christian, where the Italian Market begins. Outside they have the freshest produce available in the city at the lowest prices. Pick up bread, cheese and fruit as you walk along for a picnic later in Rittenhouse Square, where both secretaries and homosexuals cruise. If you’re into junk food, stop at Pat’s on Passayunk Avenue and get a gloppy cheese steak. The chili peppers in the jars that line the stand-up table are terrific and free. If you like Italian food go to Strolli’s Bar where two can eat for $10 including wine and tip. You can even watch old Mr. Strolli pinch the waitresses in fishnet stockings. Classical music and opera are available across the street on Mole in Victor’s Cafe. The waiters sing, musicians from the Academy of Music are regulars and campy photos line the walls.the wall. The Mandalay Inn and the Mayflower are my favorite restaurants and there are several groceries where you can get teas for ⅓ what you would pay in Center City. South St. is Philly's attempt at prose, premises, pointings, etc. Bohemia, and it comes off pretty well, with the proper mix of sleaze and artsiness. TLA Cinema is the spiritual center of the area at about 3rd St. and the movies are good, cheap, and change every night. Lickity Split Restaurant is on the corner of 4th St. and South and it is the mother of the restaurant renaissance. The menu is eclectic and thoughtfully prepared and the decor is a mix of jungle, junk, and art deco, but success has pushed the prices up. J.C. Dobbs is across the street and it is so crummy looking that your Ma would be embarrassed but you should not. The beer’s cold and the groups are usually good. Up the street at 6th is Gwendel’s Lair which, along with the Bijou at 16th and Locust, is the best place to go for entertainment. Dress up, dress down, you’ll fit in. City Hall is a must. The architecture is a delightful hodgepodge, replete with gargoyles and other grotesqueries and the statue is by Calder’s grandpa. And all those cops Frank has holding down the fort really are geldings. The newly chic loft district of Queen’s Village hasn’t been spoiled yet by upwardly mobile prices so walk down 2nd St. (simply called Two St. in the neighborhood) to see the well-polished marble steps that announce working-class Polish pride. Between the buildings, you can see the Delaware, the largest inland port in the world, but to taste the sea, scoot on into Walt’s, King of the Crabs. (No, that really is the name.) Start with an order of mussels that come steaming and made even hotter by the peppers they are cooked in. Wash it down with Schmidts or Rolling Rock Beer and get ready for some serious eating with the biggest steamed crabs north of Maryland. The people here are great and there is a good mix of uptown people and locals. If you want to talk, go to the bar next door. I spent three hours there one night learning songs and watching Lawrence Welk and damned if I didn’t have a good time. Chinatown is sort of dismal and not the best place to be by yourself after dark because it is also the home of bust-out bars and winos, but travel with a group and everything is fine. It’s the largest concentration of Orientals after Flushing’s New York and they are just beginning to get community-minded. The Art Museum has been revamped and is gorgeous. The modern collection is a strong point, even if they do have too much Chagall. The view from the steps down the Parkway is good even in winter and Fairmount Park and the Schuylkill River are next door. The crew teams should be out in spite of the weather. Be sure to see the Rodin Museum and the Burghers of Calais, across the street diagonally from the Art Museum. Other good art places are the Barnes Foundation, which is the largest collection of privately owned impressionistic art, the Institute of Contemporary Art on the University of Pennsylvania campus, Frank Furness’ fantasy building which headquarters the Philadelphia Academy of Art and the Print Club on Latimer St. Oldenburg and Lipschutz statuary are here and there, as well as Louis Kahn, Vincent Kling, and I.M. Pei buildings. To find out what’s going on, grab a copy of The Drummer, a weekly that does a good job of listing what’s happening. It is also fun to read if you don’t read too critically, and after all, this is your vacation, isn’t it?

Edwards, Clark, and Flynn
Folk, soft country rock, and jazz flavored contemporary and dixieland
Jan. 3-5 in the 900 Rm.

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

First Union National.