October 21, 1977 The Davidsonian

GENEVA TORRENCE is a proud woman. Despite having had to leave school at an early age, getting pregnant as an innocent teenager who still thought that babies were brought in doctors’ handbags, and having suffered from paralysis for almost 20 years, she remains secure in her beliefs. A near life-long resident of Davidson, she can’t even remember having participated in a college activity. [Gregg Strader]

Shakespeare outwits the dusty textbooks
By MERIDETH DURDEN
Staff Writer

Tonight over at Hodson Hall, William Shakespeare is again eluding those who would unintentionally relegate him to the realm of dusty textbooks. As You Like It cannot be classified as a comedy or satire, yet it is far from being a serious play. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., drama professor and director, prefers to call it a “gentle spoof.”

“It is a spoof on love,” explains Paul Schleifer, one of the principal players. “It satirizes both the courtly and pastoral love that were common at the time Shakespeare wrote.”

“It’s a lot like what Norman Lear did with one of today’s most popular art forms,” explains Barber. “He made Mary Hartman by including all the elements of a soap opera and yet putting them all in the proper perspective. Mary Hartman is a more extreme form than As You Like It, but the message is essentially the same: the author is saying, ‘Look at what you’re laughing at.’”

Dr. Barber explained that As You Like It is a play to be enjoyed rather than analyzed. “If you try to take it realistically, it is pretty hard to swallow.” There is a lot of mistaken identity involved and it just won't hold water if one tries to take it literally. Dr. Barber’s advice: “Don’t try to justify it. Just enjoy Shakespeare.”

This will be the first time that most of the current student population has seen Davidson students do Shakespeare. Dr. Barber’s theory is that a four-year college generation should be exposed to different plays from many phases of dramatic literature. As You Like It is the first Shakespeare play he has done since A Midsummer Night’s Dream four years ago.

Another factor behind the selection of As You Like It was the quality of the roles for women. “In the past few years, women have become more a part of the Davidson College Drama scene,” Dr. Barber said. “This is a good play with good female roles. So many of Shakespeare’s plays are built on good roles for men. But this one is an exception.”

This year’s fall production has been done in four weeks instead of the usual five or six. Dr. Barber cited Parents’ Weekend as the main reason this play has been done in record time. “It’s been rushed, especially in terms of production. I wouldn’t want to do it again, but I think we’ve pulled it off this time.”

As You Like It will be presented October 20, 21, 22, 28, and 29 at 8:15 pm in Hodson Hall.

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Nothing of the college can be seen. Not the long black-shingled roof on Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Not the tops of the tallest autumn-tinged campus trees. Not even the tapering copper steeple. When Geneva Torrence goes out to pick up her copy of The Charlotte News every afternoon, Davidson College might as well not exist for all she can see of it down at her small duplex apartment on Griffith Street.

As far as it affects her, the college might as well not exist in other ways. It has been over ten years since she set foot on campus. Although she has lived in town almost all of her life, she does not recall having attended a lecture, concert, or play here. “OhI can’t think of the years,” she reflected, her large fat arms sitting quietly on her flaccid lap. “I believe it was in the Sixties when I walked around the college the last time. I used to go over there and pay rent.” Mrs. Torrence is black. Unlike much of the local elderly white population, Mrs. Torrence does not regard Davidson as a place to go for entertainment and intellectual stimulation. To her, the college is an industry, the job opportunity of past years. And little else. “Ain’t many people around here that hat’n worked for the college. That about the only place around here for people to work,” she said, now expressively waving a soiled blue napkin. Most of the jobs Mrs. Torrence has held have been either at the college or college-related. She worked at the guest house, the old Chambers Mess Hall, and the laundry by turn. She said of her laundry experience, “I was at the ironing board for a while, then I was at the presser for a while.” She cooked and cleaned and babysat for several Davidson professors, all of whom have either retired or died. For Mrs. Torrence and other people like her on the other side of the tracks, the college is no retirement playground. Her lack of interest in college activities has little to do with an inability on her part to understand and appreciate intellectual pursuits. Despite having to leave school in the seventh grade because she was afraid of one of her teachers, she is an avid reader. The books which line the shelves of her living room bookcase are probably not very different from those found in local white homes. Her volumes deal with natural history, physics, literature, and religion. “I always did love books. I was a good reader in school,” she enunciated through the hole where one of her front teeth used to be. She also likes to write—especially when she’s lonely. “Sometimes I’m lonely and I sit down and write some of the things I think. Sometimes I’ll sit down and write four or five letters.” Her lack of interest in college activities also has little to do with her physical condition. She has been partially paralyzed for almost twenty years and still has difficulty in walking. “The last time I was pregnant, the doctor tapped my spine and a big knot rose up in it. He gave me shots that broke me all out in black splots. He was giving me the wrong shots and it destroyed two vertebrae,” she recounted. “I could’a sued the doctor but I didn’t feel like it. It don’t make you feel good about it,” she said. Despite this, she still finds a way to get to the Gethsemane Baptist Church each Sunday and to do other things which interest her. She has lived alone since she was separated from her husband years ago. He has long since been dead. “Sometimes I asks myself, ‘Lord what do you want me to do. Do you just want to keep me here or do you have something you want me to do?’ I just keep waiting for an answer,” Mrs. Torrence said, leaning forward.

Remember SPOOK SOMEONE MON. OCT. 31 HALLOWEEN CARDS - MASKS CLAWS - BATS Party and door DECORATIONS AT THE VILLAGE STORE Register again and again for a Giant Gorilla to be given away at a drawing on Halloween.