January 28, 1977

The Davidsonian

working class heroes.

CAMPUS DILETTANTES masquerade as

(Irv Wilson)

Freeland bequeaths stamps

By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

The Reverend Paul Freeland, a 1925 alumnus, who died November 1, willed Davidson College $500,000 from the receipts of his
stamp collections, which have been valued at more than $1 million. “Since the grant is unrestricted, we will place it
in our primary fund, the college endowment, so that income from it will benefit students for years to come,” said
College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.

In addition, Freeland has also established a $150,000 trust fund which passed to Davidson upon his death. Freeland has always
been noted for his altruism. “Paul Freeland has had a special devotion to Davidson. He was a most thoughtful person
and this bequest is characteristic of his thoughtfulness,” said Spencer.

The $500,000 gift is the largest that the college has received since commencing its $35 million fund drive.

Former North Carolina Governor James Holshouser, Jr., commented on the importance of the Freeland bequest. “This bequest is the first
of what we hope will be many substantial additions to Davidson’s resources in the next ten years.”

After graduating from Davidson, Freeland studied at Union Theological Seminary and was ordained to the ministry in 1928. He later
studied at the University of Edinburgh.

For 20 years he was a pastor in Louisiana and Oklahoma. He was named Secretary to the Overseas Relief and
Interchurch Aid Department of the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church in 1950 and served until 1963.

Upon his retirement in 1963, Davidson awarded him the honorary doctor of divinity degree. The citation read in part: “Pastor,
author, lecturer, serving in many lands... A recognized specialist in Arab-Israeli affairs... Life dedicated to the glory of God and
the relief of man’s estate, doing the truth of Christ as opportunity offered throughout the world...”

An avid collector, Freeland had assembled a number of historic Abraham Lincoln materials, ecclesiastical communion tokens, Confederate money, and books.

Business briefed

By JAY SILVER
Staff Writer

“The future of the insurance industry, as well as that of all industries, is tied up in the college campus,”
believes Colin Hampton, President of Union Mutual Life Insurance Company.

Hampton is visiting Davidson through Thursday, February 3, as a Business Executive in Residence.

The Executive in Residence Program is sponsored by the American Council of Life Insurance, which hopes to “open up lines
of communication between the business community and the academic community,” said Hampton.

A graduate of Vanderbilt with an M.B.A. from N.Y.U., Hampton is especially willing to talk with students individually concerning their
career goals or their interest in business management.

Hampton has already appeared before several classes on campus in addition to working closely with students in the Honor’s Center
seminar, “The Corporation in Society.”

College conserves energy, avoids shortage crisis

By GAIL MAYNARD
Staff Writer

No energy crisis will occur at Davidson this winter like the shortages other colleges across the nation have suffered.

“No one needs to be concerned about Davidson College running out of energy,” said Director of the Physical Plant Grover
C. Meetze, Jr.

“A good deal of time has been spent in planning ahead in case of an emergency,” he said.

Other colleges across the nation, such as Ohio State and the University of Pittsburgh, have had to either extend holiday
vacations or cancel classes until fuel could be obtained.

Davidson College will not have to resort to these measures, according to Meetze.

Meetze states that oil has been stored as a standby fuel for gas since the gas shortage about five years
ago. This reserve will supply the college’s needs amply unless a drastic energy-loss emergency occurs, he explained.

To conserve energy, the maintenance department employs an “on-and-off” system of cutting the heat off in dormitories while students are
in class, then turning it on again in the afternoon, said Meetze.

Concerning future fuel shortages, Meetze stated, “Everyone will have to be prepared to exist under lower temperatures.

“It’s not the shortage of fuel at Davidson, but the rising cost of it that is important to consider.”

Meetze stated that the “severity of this winter will cause an increase in fuel costs; however, the overall price of
fuel goes up every year anyway.”

He said that the cost of fuel has more than doubled in the last five years.

The cost of heating the campus for this winter will not be known until the year’s end, Meetze explained.

From last year’s figures, Business Manager Robert Currie calculated that each student pays approximately $117 towards the total heating bill.

Davidson College possesses a Honeywell Delta 1000 computer unit in the library as “a last phase in energy conservation,” said
Meetze.

Although the computer won’t be used until money is available to operate it at full capacity, the unit will eventually
control the amount of power being used over the entire campus, stated Meetze.

Meetze suggests that students turn off the lights when leaving dorm rooms and to keep their windows closed to conserve
energy.

The Sky Band, formerly Appleton, now a progressive country band, to perform in the 900 Room Tues., Feb. 2 at
10:00

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
