The Davidsonian

February 4, 1977

ERNIE REIGEL’S ball handling finesse keyed Cats’ conference win over William and Mary.
(Irv Wilson)

Cagers gird for Notre Dame

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

Have the Cats come far enough to compete with Notre Dame? Davidson, fresh from a 62-60 victory over The Citadel which extended its winning streak to two games, runs into Notre Dame Saturday at Greensboro. The game is being televised by NBC-TV, starting at 4 pm.

Coach Dave Pritchett does not feel the Cats will suffer any let-down going into the Notre Dame game. “There is no problem getting up for a team like Notre Dame. But we've (Davidson) been up pretty much the whole year.”

Coach Pritchett said about the effect of the William and Mary game on the players, “They'll take a look at themselves and see how much they have improved. It’s a question of self-confidence.”

Pritchett is aware of how a good game against the Fighting Irish will affect his team, “It instills pride in our people when we show we can be competitive against any team in the country. It is also something extra for our kids to face players from a national standpoint, for Pat Hickert, to play against Toby Knight or Bruce Flowers and for Ernie Reigel to play against Durk Williams.”

Pritchett plans no major surprises in preparing for the game against Notre Dame, “We will have to be extremely disciplined on offense and play great defense—only allowing one shot, preferably an outside shot.

“We'll start out in a man-to-man defense so our people will know match-ups in case we press or there is a last-second shot. If they (Notre Dame) hurt us on a mismatch because of our size we'll try to give help inside by going to a zone.”

Citadel downed

Owens’ rebound secures Cat win

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

Davidson won its second game of the week, barely getting by The Citadel 62-60 last night.

Davidson led most of the game, but the contest was never secure until Rod Owens pulled down the rebound from Robert Hoak’s missed shot at the buzzer.

Davidson was led by John Gerdy who was 12 for 18 from the floor and 4 for 4 from the line for a game high 28 points and Rod Owens who had 16 points on 8 field goals in 14 attempts.

Rod Owens finally put the Cats out in front with 9:16 remaining in the first half with a follow of his own miss to put Davidson ahead 19-18.

Gradually adding to the lead, primarily on long range jumpers by Gerdy (who was 8 for 10 in the half), Davidson hit its biggest lead at halftime 29-24, when Owens hit a shot with 0:02 left in the half.

The margin separating the two teams in the second half fluctuated between an 8 point Davidson lead, 39-31 with 15:25 remaining in the game to a one point Citadel lead, 48-47 with 8:30 remaining in the game.

The Cats appeared to have the game won with 1:22 remaining as Owens hit 2 free throws to put Davidson ahead 61-56. However, Citadel hit two quick baskets to cut Davidson’s lead to one point with less than one minute remaining.

Pat Hickert hit one of two free throws to give the Cats a 62-60 lead with 10 seconds remaining.

The Citadel got the ball to Hoak, and Hoak drove on Reigel. Reigel explained his defensive strategy, “I wasn’t going to give him (Hoak) a lay-up, I wanted him to shoot as far away from the basket as possible and to make sure I put a hand in his face. But I didn’t want to foul him and give him a three point play. It was a good shot.”

It didn’t fall through, and Davidson had its fifth victory of the year.

IN WOMEN’S IMAC action, Susan Reid heads down court as Paula Kadison hustles to the defense.
(Irv Wilson)

Complete the Valentine Poem Contest

Complete summer studies program in France: with sessions in Paris, Nice and Strasbourg. Up to 16 hours credit in French and/or European history. Co-sponsored by Wheaton College and Taylor University. 3 week, 7 week, 10 week sessions from $1350 including air fare. Some financial aid available. For details, contact: ESPRIT, Box 636, Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois 60187.