The Davidsonian
January 28, 1977

Institution stifles

The lack of diversity on this campus is apparent when you watch the hordes descending upon the Post Office daily
at 10 am. And we blame what we think to be the source of the homogeneity: the Admissions department. They
recruit and accept students they predict will fit into the mold of the ideal Davidson student.

The Admissions department answers the accusation by attributing the lack of diversity to three logical reasons:
1) They say the cost of Davidson excludes students who might add economic diversity.
2) They say staff is not large enough to make distant travel efficient.
3) Students who apply to Davidson are attracted by the type of students already here. Like bodies attract each other;
few students want to go to where they might feel uncomfortable.

Their excuses are poor. An admissions official admits there is financial assistance available to attract students of lower economic levels.
There is also money to expand the staff. At least the student body pool could be utilized to help out
in recruiting. The last excuse may not be the fault of the Admissions department. Perhaps the source of the lack
of diversity lies in the Davidson institution.

Davidson College undermines any diversity the Admissions department might succeed in recruiting. Start at the beginning. The freshman hall fosters
an atmosphere of conformity. The majority of students quickly identify with their hall and escape to the security of ready-made
friends and activities. And it’s not always secure; all it takes is a few people to get depressed to make
an entire hall depressed.

The hall conformity manifests itself in the lack of initiative students use in their social life. They have a “what
are you going to do to entertain me” attitude. From freshman orientation on they come to depend upon Patterson Court
and the Union for entertainment and become depressed if nothing is provided.

The curriculum does not foster diversity. The Humanities department illustrates blatant conformity. The program teaches 5000 years of Western civilization
in two years producing dilettantes who talk alike, write alike, and panic alike. The rest of the curriculum provides no
diversity for the student who does not have the “classic” taste. The only outlet now is Extended Studies, which is
presently in danger.

But the curriculum is not as smothering as the pressure which accompanies it. The freshman plunges immediately into a meaningless
competition for grades. Students do not have time to be diverse. They learn how to make grades; they do not
learn. And the faculty does not help. There seems to be a prevailing fear of faculty intimidation. There is very
little interaction between faculty and students outside the classroom. The pressure of grades often leads to suppression of the exchange
of ideas. If we could get students and faculty to sit down and drink a beer together it would do
them both a lot of good. Then again, Christian tenure limits the exchange of ideas to the Christian point of
view. The broader perspective can be lost.

It sounds as if we’re using the lack of diversity; it encourages conformity. The institution runs smoother that way. But
smoother does not necessarily mean better.

The Davidsonian
Catherine Landis
Editor
Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Special Projects Editor
Production Manager
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ............ Managing Editors
Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postagePaid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all
correspondence to The Davidson, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Mark Rabil, the language departments, and something over thirty students are interested in creating "language houses" for the coming school
year. It’s an opportunity that cannot be passed up if the language departments, all of them, are going to enlist
considerable student support and activity. Look at the advantages of having a series of houses in which students could consistently
speak Spanish, German, and French.

To begin with, experience has shown almost everyone that to learn a language effectively you must live where, if it
isn’t the principal means of communication, it’s at least common. This is simply not true of the campus as things
stand now. At the moment, if you speak any language other than your own and good English, the other language
will necessarily deteriorate from lack of practice. Face it, people here take their languages to complete their requirements, then, for
the most part, don’t encounter them again. Language houses would present increased possibilities for fluency in a language and provide
opportunities for cultural programs which at the moment are sadly lacking on campus.

When was the last time you looked at or heard of a cultural display from outside of America here? Given
by people who know what they’re talking about? The last time I know of was three years ago—a symposium on
South America. This does not include the Mexican dancers, Yugoslav orchestra, or any other Artist Series events; those people are
here today, gone tomorrow.

The language houses, set up properly and inhabited by students with a certain amount of enthusiasm and compatibility, should have
great potential for improving the present insufferably provincial atmosphere of this campus. There are problems involved with specific housing for
language students, yes. The houses would take up a considerable amount of the off-campus living space, and perhaps eventually necessitate
buying a house specifically for the purpose. Their programs might have to be funded via the Union Minority Activities Committee.
But these can be smoothed over, and it’s hard to believe that the college will refuse to spend a couple
of thousand dollars to improve its avowedly liberal arts atmosphere.

Sure, we can live without the addition of language houses. But as they have at other campuses, where they sometimes
have been turned into full-fledged language centers, they can add a lot. The decision concerning the houses will probably be
made subject to the all-encompassing feeling of "college priorities." What the Council on Campus and Religious Life should remember is
that for almost nothing it can present three departments with a viable program which could have immediate advantages.

Anonymity frustrates former celebrities

To the Editor:

Richard Boyce, well-known campus personality, nearly lost his life last Tuesday at the hands of his roommate, former SGA President
Bo Baskin. Though no witnesses were present, both antagonists gave accounts of the accident. According to Boyce, he returned from
class to find Baskin hustling away on his typewriter. Greeting his roommate with a few choice obscenities, Boyce found himself
besieged by an angry Baskin.

“He chased me downstairs with a flair pen,” said Boyce, “so I pulled mine out, too. He seemed determined to
mark me with the pen, but I beat him to it. As I went for his arm, he hit mine
and my pen marked his face.” Enraged, Baskin crouched into a combative position, and lunged at Boyce. The pen met
the flesh underneath Boyce’s lower lip and lodged there. Boyce pulled the weapon out, revealing a nasty gash that sent
him to the Infirmary for stitches.

Said Baskin of the incident, “I stabbed the bastard once and I’ll do it again.” Boyce seemed to hold no
grudges, “I knew my GPA was higher, but Jesus!” Peyton Marshall, musing as he watched Boyce bleed, said, “Ever since
Bo lost his gavel, he’s just fallen apart.”

At this time, no charges have been filed.

Robbie Hutchinson '77
Davidson College
