4 The Davidsonian March 11, 1977

Apathy overwhelms student body

By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Our sluggishness is upon us. We are weighed down by our own lethargy, and there seems to be no way
out. We students have become a very soft breed. We are pampered, fattened, and slaughtered, and we have no one
to blame but ourselves.

For example, we no longer care about politics. Not only has the spirit of the sixties evaporated completely, but it
has become easy and fashionable to mock and make fun of what were once issues of importance and emotion. Labor
problems, student rights, and the anti-war movement have all become a source of jokes for those of us who now
cannot stand to think that we are not participating in anything so vital. The quick laugh and the one-liner have
replaced a commitment to an issue and taking an honest stand.

We no longer even care about campus issues. Dorm space is sadly inadequate, the Infirmary is hardly sufficient for student
health care, Martin Science Building is in a state of sorry disrepair, students have nowhere to eat on Patterson Court.
But what are we doing about it? We grumble to our friends or we write a column that will be
forgotten by tomorrow. We are not asserting ourselves even though this college is in existence for the students’ sake, not
for the alumni or the administration. We do not have the guts to say with force and organization, "We do
not want this new radio station, we do not want a country club athletic department, but we want students’ needs
met because we are getting an education here and we are paying $5000 a year to go here."

We burrow into our books or our beds. We shuffle from disco to beer blast in an attempt to squeeze
some fun into the daily grind. It is difficult to condemn this new apathy. It is so pervasive and so
easy to fall into. One cannot wish for the sixties back, that is ludicrous. Nor should we forego our social
lives because life at Davidson isn’t perfect; that is equally ludicrous. But are we going to sit by and allow
the things that are important to us to be whittled away bit by bit? Are we going to toss this
Davidsonian into the can, saying, “Yeah, it is a shame, but...”

Without a doubt, we will. There are plenty of problems, but not the passion to even get excited about them.
The problem is that students have no weapon. Grades rule, and because grades rule, students do not have anything to
hold over the heads of a culprit; grades are held over the heads of students.

Students hesitate to cause trouble for fear of jeopardizing a grade point average on the basis of antagonistic feelings. The
time involved in fighting for a cause infringes on study time which eventually threatens an average.

Well, you do have a weapon. You may not have a major arsenal, but you at least have the right
to fight. The most productive and certainly easiest way to fight would be to talk to whoever is responsible for
the problem. If enough pressure is applied the matter would have to be considered. Dr. Spencer is accused of his
distance from student life, yet his lack of information is half the fault of student non-communication. Davidson students are not
above more drastic measures. If there is a known incompetent professor who continues to be rehired, boycott.his class. If enough
students are dissatisfied with big-time athletics, boycott the games. If enough are unhappy with an expanded radio station, picket. You
could also picket for lack of hall counselor pay, the outdated Infirmary, and Martin Science Building. Liberal arts means free-thinking...so
think. Any administration with any intelligence would laugh at the impotence of our sheep-like behavior. But we are not laughing.
Because present inaction is not just impotent; it is irresponsible. We do have the means to fight if we only
had the will; we are not determined creatures. If you believe it, get off your behinds and prove it.

The Davidsonian
Catherine Landis

Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Business Manager
Special Projects Editor
Production Manager
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ............ Managing Editors
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis .............., Advertising Editors
Circulation Manager
DenniG McLawhorn............... Asst. News Editor
Asst. Features Editor
Marshall Waddell ................ Asst. Sports Editor
Cartoonist
Asst. Projects Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Davidson,
N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

AN APOLOGY: A SCATHING CARTOON ON THE SUBJECT OF STUDENT APATHY WAS INTENDED FOR THIS SPACE, BUT THE CARTOONIST NEVER
BOTHERED TO GET AROUND TO DOING IT.
THE EDITOR

Letter to the Editor

Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.

Overcrowded gym due to influx of ‘townies’

To the Editor:

On repeated occasions, I have gone to Johnston Gym with the intention of playing basketball, only to find every basket
taken. If everyone there was a Davidson College student, I would have no reason to complain. But generally, this has
not been the case. Most of the people in the gym are in no way affiliated with the college and
I feel should not be allowed to use our facilities. Students have little time to use the gym anyway. Usually,
there is some type of scheduled activity there every afternoon and night. However, this is understandable. But what frustrates myself
and others I have talked to is that when the gym is available for our use, it is usually overrun
by these unauthorized people. With only six baskets available for our use, overcrowding can tend to be a problem even
if just students are present. And this problem is further magnified by the presence of these townies and high school
students. To keep the gym available for our use, stricter regulations should be enforced and those people not affiliated with
the college should be kept out. It is a shame that we cannot even enjoy the facilities supposedly available for
our use.

Adrian N. Wilson '79
Davidson College

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
