Linden's departure highlights weaknesses in

Davidson's Christian Tenure

Policy; it emphasizes the need for

Davidson to establish a standard procedure for hiring new

faculty.

A mandatory step-by-step procedure should make each
department send an informational packet to each candidate
before he arrives on campus for an interview. The packet
should include any information about Davidson which would
make the candidate aware of Davidson’s policies before his

interview.

A standard policy would ensure the candidate is interviewed
by both department faculty members and students. Situations
such as the English department's getting away with hiring a

faculty member without student consultation would no longer

be permitted.

A standard policy might have resolved the problem with
Linden before it got to be a problem. He might have been more
informed of Davidson's policies before he arrived on campus.
Then he could have discussed his feelings in the interviews

rather than in his acceptance letter.

Spencer might have consulted the political science
department both before he received legal counsel and before he

sent the withdrawal to Linden.

Davidson's present hiring practices are not only
unorganized, but irresponsible and unprofessional. We're

paying for it now.

In order to provide extensive
coverage of the Linden case,
The Davidsonian has held FOCUS

until next week when we will focus
on the topic: Christian Tenure

Letter to the Editor

Sophs thank Piedmont

To the Editor:

On behalf of the Class of ’79, we
would like to thank Piedmont Bank
for its generous support of ‘‘Sopho-
more Deorientation’’. The day was a
success due to their kindness.

Davidson is fortunate to have a
business that plays an active part in
college life and their concern is greatly

appreciated.

Ann Burke '79
Ralph Yeilding ’79
Davidson College

The Davidsonian

Catherine Landis .............. Editor
Dave Keller ................. Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .... News Editors
Erica Gjersvik ................ Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle .... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell Sports Editors
Susan Colan ................. Production Manager
Amanda Hall ............... Managing Editor
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis .... Photography Editors
John Kravet ............... Advertising Editors
Marlin Geiger .............. Circulation Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson ... Business Manager
Warren Soule ............... Cartoonist
Ann Garner ............... Asst. Projects Editor
Charles Erwin ............. Asst. Features Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of David-
son College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box
#8, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Opinion
Barrett blames “Reds”
for Davidson’s problems

By SID BARRETT
Guest Columnist

There is a specter haunting David-
son, one which threatens our precious
way of life and that of our children.

I am not talking about the fraterni-
ty system, but about the creeping
menace of Communism whose slimy
trail leads into the very bowels of our
alma mater.

Unless we act now against the
oppressor, our friends and families
will be swept into the mindless,
obedient robot mentality that the
Rooskies like (Jeeze, look at the
Moonies, will ya); maybe not today,
maybe not tomorrow, but someday,
and for the rest of our lives.

Look around you! These recent
controversies and occurrences cannot
be coincidence! It all adds up—the
golf course, Carnegie House,
WDAV’s power boost, and finally,
the firing of a Jewish professor.
Davidson is the target of a Soviet
take-over! Our own administration is
leading us to be devoured by Godless
socialism, like lambs at the slaughter!

How did I find out, you may well

ask? And well you might. The firing
of Linden tipped me off. They fired
Linden because he knew too much—

McKelway and the other closet Jews
on the faculty warned him about
Carnegie House. Any fool could see
that it doesn’t take $200,000 to fix a

house up—that money went else-
where. He began to smell a rat—a red
rat!

The new golf course confirmed my
suspicions. Why are there so many
bulldozers around, and why don’t
they ever work when we're around? Of
course! Because of its strategic loca-
tion between Cornelius and Mt.
Mourne, Davidson is being used as a
Soviet missile base! And our student
activities money is going to fund a
“high-power’’ WDAV that is, in fact,
a sophisticated tracking system to
monitor American airspace, and di-
rect brutal surprise assaults on help-
less women and children.

The biology, chemistry and art
departments are in this too. The real
reason Martin Science Building has
not been renovated is because it
houses genetic engineering studies
and chemical warfare projects design-
ed to smooth the path of the Soviet
Bear.

Davidson artists are engaged in
smuggling coded secrets back to
Commie-bloc nations via that so-call-
ed modern art. Steve Kimmel, an art
major, is the son of Dr. Kimmel the
bio professor. See how it all fits
together? Of course you do! And that
one art teacher, with the sunglasses
and the beard—who could trust him?

We must and will not stand for
this! Waffle all you want now,
Sam — the people are on to you and

your pinko friends! Students and
workers, unite!
