April 1, 1977

The Davidsonian

Debaters grab first place tie in Utah

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Staff Writer

At a recent national college tournament in Salt Lake City, Davidson College debaters won a surprise first-place tie.

Several members of the squad also won speaker awards.

Team captain Nancy Northcott, Bob Enright, Tony Snow, and Maria Patterson debated the topic: “Resolved, that capital punishment cannot serve
the interests of justice.”

They recorded eleven wins and three losses in the Contemporary Issues Division. This tied them with a hybrid team from
Ball State and Butler University.

The tie was then broken by total speaker points, which left Davidson short 17 points and dropped them to second
in the official standings.

Speaker awards went to Snow and Northcott, third and fourth place in their respective divisions. Snow also received an Award
of Excellence in Extemporaneous Speaking.

“I don’t think any of us had any idea that we would do that well,” said Debate Team Coach Jean
H. Cornell, who accompanied the team to Salt Lake City.

Patterson felt more confident after the first couple of rounds. “I figured our chances were about as good as anybody’s.
The only nervousness I felt was because Nancy and I had never debated off-topic before.”

Off-topic debate deals with subjects other than the official year-round topic. There is less time to gather evidence for off-topics
and, as a result, “Off-topic is lighter,” said Enright.

“Regular debate often gets to be just who can dig up the most evidence and who can talk the fastest.
It can get boring as hell.

“The regular debate topic for this year is Consumer Safety and it ends up being fights about airbags,” Enright said.

Northcott admitted that she was apprehensive as she approached her first off-topic debate. “I was afraid it would be judged
on rhetoric and not evidence,” she said.

Some of the team’s research evidence was left behind at the Charlotte airport by accident.

“Granted, the evidence was not as important, but for certain arguments, we really needed it,” said Patterson.

“We duplicated most of the evidence from government documents we brought along. It was a busy plane ride.”

Committee weighs policy: questions admissions’ ratios

By CAROLINE CROMARTIE
Staff Writer

A committee which is objectively weighing the pros and cons of a sex-blind, merit admissions policy for Davidson will soon
be polling students to find their opinions in the matter.

The campus-wide survey will be part of the committee’s presentation to the trustees in May.

Committee member Carol Connors is gathering information from other institutions that in recent years have adopted sex-blind admissions policies (such
as Dartmouth and the University of Virginia).

The committee hopes to predict how a new admissions policy would affect Davidson by investigating the problems other schools encountered
in shifting to sex-blind, merit admissions.

Committee Chairman Ellen Stebbens said that her group recognizes that sex-blind admissions has both positive and negative aspects.

By eliminating ratio as a determinant in admissions, a better calibre of students could result. She explained, a shift in
the male-female ratio might also bring changes in dating patterns.

Sex discrimination could be minimized and women’s athletics could be given a boost.

On the other hand, Stebbens said such a policy may detract from male athletics.

And if a sex-blind admissions policy brings a predominance of women to the college, financial support from alumni who are
familiar with only a predominantly male Davidson, may dwindle.

“We have been carefully researching all aspects of the issue and hope that the response to our questionnaire will be
extensive,” said Stebbens.

Jim Brock and Steve Young are the other members of the committee.

Phi Beta Kappa 1977

Pat McKinney Baskin, Jr.
Edward Dana Beach
Richard Nelson Boyce
Walter Eugene Broadhead
Laurie Schnackenberg Bumgarner
Thomas Edward Cooper
Dana Leigh English
Sabra Jean Faires
Karl Edmund Goodhouse
Robert Umstead Grizzard
Donald Stephens Jackson
Richard Hunter Jennings, III
Mark Andrews Jester
Clifford Paul Johnson
Walter Clyde Joyce
Jesse Thomas Lee, III
John Wilson Lovett
Andrew Allison McElwee, Jr.
Katherine Aycock McLendon
Christopher Wood Mangelsdorf
Peyton Jaquelin Marshall, III
Ruth Carter Murphey
Michael James Naslund
James Glenn Nichols
Hilton Gordon Oliver
Colleen Ann Parks
Madelon Jean Parks
Herbert Orlandah Phillips, IV
Patricia Lee Phillips
Stephen Mark Rabil
Gary Lee Rowe
Robert Graham Shearer
Martha Anne Smith
Rebecca Easley Stimson
Carol Elizabeth Watkins
Edwin Grant Wilkins
Van Elizabeth Williamson
Corwin Walker Young

Due to recent abuses of the beer cooler upstairs at The Peregrine House, the management might request no one use
the upstairs without a manager present. Action upon this proposal depends upon future student cooperation. Please help out.

HERE OR TO GO
BECKS
FOSTERS
MOLSONS
BLATZ
HEINEKEN
WIEDEMAN

PEREGRINE HOUSE
MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C.
892-8686
OPEN UNTIL 1:00 AM THURS. FRI. SAT.

HAPPY HOURS
THURSDAY 8:30-10:00 PM
FRIDAY 8:30-10:00 PM

35¢

WINES TO GO
MOSEL $2.65
LIEBFRAUMILCH $2.20
BORDEAUX $2.85

CORKAGE CHARGE $1.00

LIGHT OR DARK BY THE GLASS

BEST PIZZA ANYWHERE — ESPECIALLY EAST OF TULSA

“NO MAN FLIES TOO HIGH THAT FLIES WITH HIS OWN WINGS”

CHABLIS
BURGUNDY
COLOMBARD

BLAKE
