The Davidsonian

December 2, 1977

Wildcat wrestlers open new season

By ARTHUR A. NONIMUS
Staff Writer

The wrestling team is optimistic about the upcoming season as they return seven of last year’s starters and perennial Head
Coach Charles Parker, who has been sorely missed the last two years.

In addition, many new freshmen and sophomore wrestlers will add to the depth of the team.

This year’s team will be paced by senior captain Glenn Ballard, juniors Pat Dulany and Scott Phillips, and sophomore Rob
King. Other possible standouts include juniors Pete Johnson and Steven Sellers, sophomores Mike Garfinkel and Anthony Sanfilippo, and freshmen Pat
McKinsey and Eric Reintsema.

Newcomers that could see considerable action are Bill Allen, Kevin Calderbank, Rich Giech, Dave Rew, and Chuck.

The grapplers open their season at Catawba on Tuesday, December 6, and wrestle in an invitational tournament on the following
Saturday.

After Christmas, the wrestling team will host Elon College and the Citadel in their first home appearance on Saturday, January
14.

Attention all personnel

Listed below is a schedule of dates for picking up your basketball tickets. The ticket office will be open from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on the dates listed.

Game date | Opponent | Ticket pickup date
Dec. 2-3 | CIT | Nov. 29 (Tuesday)
Dec. 7 | NC State | Dec. 2 (Friday)
Dec. 19 | Western Carolina | Dec. 14 (Wednesday)
Dec. 21 | Georgia Tech | Dec. 16 (Friday)
Jan. 4 | Marshall | Dec. 30 (Friday)
Jan. 9 | Furman | Jan. 4 (Wednesday)
Jan. 21 | South Carolina | Jan. 18 (Wednesday)
Jan. 25 | William/Mary | Jan. 20 (Friday)
Feb. 1 | UT Chattanooga | Jan. 27 (Friday)

Get Your Prime Goose DOWN.

MOVING IN for position, Ernie Reigel watches Chris Dodds launch a jumper over Erskine defenders.

Cats throttle Erskine

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Staff Writer

A strong second half surge was instrumental in allowing the Davidson basketball team to enjoy its second consecutive victory of
the year by defeating a stubborn Erskine squad 90-74.

Early in the game, the Wildcats’ defense seemed to have difficulty coping with the deliberate offense which Erskine employed.

The Flying Fleet used their front line effectively in controlling play throughout most of the first half. Only the torrid
shooting of guard John Gerdy kept the Wildcats close. Gerdy pumped in a total of 23 first half points, many
on long-range jumpers which continually frustrated the Erskine team.

The Cats seemed to pick their game up when Coach Pritchett inserted sophomores Ernie Reigel and Tim Bowker for defensive
purposes.

Both players responded extremely well playing tenacious defense (Reigel with 7 rebounds, Bowker with 4 blocked shots) which had the
added effect of livening up the offense.

Davidson began to pull ahead in the second half as Gerdy and freshman point guard Chris Dodds began to combine
effectively to capitalize on the large number of turnovers which the revived defense began to produce.

Dodds in particular scored almost at will after halftime, weaving through the Erskine defense after receiving many fine outlet passes
from his teammates.

Much of the credit for the victory must be directed to Coach Pritchett for instituting a half-court zone trap with
about twelve minutes to play. Pritchett normally utilizes such a defense much later in a game, but felt that it
might serve to confuse Erskine’s patterned style of play.

His coaching move paid off well as the opposition rapidly became very disorganized, and the Wildcats put the game on
ice with a successful fast break offense.

This weekend Davidson hosts the Charlotte Invitational Basketball Tournament at the Coliseum. The Wildcats meet Delaware on Friday night and
hope to advance to the finals against the winner of the Colgate-Illinois St. game.

Illinois St., a probable finalist, seems likely to pose a strong threat with a powerful lineup including a seven-foot sophomore
center.
