Vol. LXVII, No. TEN. VANDALISM... again. See story page 3.

By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls has announced a tie in the recent contest for ideas on conserving energy in
the residence halls. Due to the essential similarities between the top two entries, the $25 cash prize was divided between
the winners, Junior John Parkerson and Senior Rick Miller who submitted a joint entry, and Sophomore Anne Tutwiler. Director of
the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze and Business Manager Robert Currie assisted Nicholls with the judging.

One common suggestion was the installation of radiator valves which would allow the residents of each room to control the
amount of heat they receive. At present, many students must resort to opening windows to cool down a room. This
problem has long been under consideration and new valves will be tried on an experimental basis in selected rooms this
winter. As it stands, the dorms are heated on a rotating on-off basis. If the use of valves proves effective,
however, students can hope eventually to maintain their own temperature preferences at a constant level.

In a positive response to the idea of reducing light in the dorm hallways, Meetze took the opportunity to emphasize
that students’ input and reaction is what determines the extent to which energy conservation is extended. As has been done
in Chambers and in the library, some lights in areas not intended for studying will simply be turned off.

Insulation to prevent wasteful loss of energy was another idea expressed in the contest. Meetze agrees that insulation of pipes,
walls, and the attics would be a substantial improvement. Such a project, he points out, necessitates a careful consideration of
total cost versus projected savings.

One suggestion will soon be acted upon. The temperature of the water flowing to the residence halls will be lowered,
thus reducing the amount of heat expended to heat the water. Following another suggestion, Nicholls plans to distribute information on
appliance wattages and power usage in order to increase student awareness. Students are still “notoriously negligent” about turning off lights.

Overall, the contest results encouraged the judges. They express great hopes for further student cooperation and input.

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Faculty narrowly rejects non-western requirement

By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) submitted in November a proposal to the faculty which would have required students to take
one non-western studies course during their years at Davidson. In a vote at the last faculty meeting, that proposal was
narrowly defeated.

The proposal originated with a request in 1976 from the President to the EPC to examine various aspects of the
college curriculum and make a report to the faculty.

In the past, the Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC) has allowed students who have accumulated extra course credits to take a
reduced course load, on the grounds that they were ahead of normal progress. This position was modified at a November
9 committee meeting. In a letter to students who requested reduced course loads for the winter term, Registrar Richard C.
Burts, Jr., the Chairman of the CRC, states, “Being ahead of normal progress might be a factor, but it will
no longer be adequate by itself. Instead, Committee approval will depend on the adequacy of the reasons presented by the
student for laying aside the expectation that all students will carry a normal load of three courses.”

Burts feels that this change in practice will not affect students with valid reasons for requesting a reduced load. Several
students have, in fact, been granted permission to take a reduced load winter term. “A student with a real reason
will be approved, but now a student without any real reason won’t be approved,” said Burts.

A number of students have expressed the concern that this change represents a shift to a more paternalistic policy. They
feel that the College is not recognizing that students are capable of making mature decisions for themselves.Zimmermann acknowledges that the
new practice is somewhat paternalistic, but he claims that this paternalism is related to Davidson’s academic structure and traditional ties.
There is also some disagreement; the original plan was to look at the Honors College, Extended Studies, and South Asian
Studies. Professor of Religion Daniel Rhodes, chairman of the subcommittee that did the basic research on South Asian Studies, said,
“We discovered that we could not look at Asian Studies alone, but rather had to decide whether students should take
something other than merely courses in the Judeo-Christian, Greco-Roman tradition.” After several months of investigation, the committee recommended the non-western
studies requirement. “The philosophy behind the proposal,” said Rhodes, “was that a liberally educated student should be exposed in some
sort of formal way to at least one culture other than his own.”

There are some eighteen to twenty courses presently offered that fit in the general non-western category, including Buddhism, African Foreign
Policy, Chinese Poetry, and Economics of South Asia. Unlike the four other area requirements (Religion and Philosophy, the Social Sciences,
Natural Sciences, and English and Fine Arts), this proposal would not have set up a fifth area. For example, Hinduism
would have fulfilled both a religion requirement and the non-western studies requirement.

The proposal was defeated for a number of reasons. Although faculty members generally agreed that students should be exposed to
other cultures, they were divided on whether or not non-western studies should be made a requirement. Rhodes said, “There were
some faculty members who were genuinely reluctant to add any further requirement for students, since Davidson already demands a great
deal in terms of area requirements and courses for majors. Some professors were very interested in students having this kind
of experience. They felt, however, in light of the large percentage of students who now take a non-western course before
graduation, that it was better psychologically not to put pressure on students through more requirements.”

Professor of South Asian Studies Tonia Devon, a leading proponent of the non-western proposal, countered the argument. She believes that
it is important for students to be exposed to the eastern tradition. Passing this proposal would have assured that “all
students would have to take at least one course dealing with the other two-thirds of the world.”

Other opponents of the motion felt that a thorough analysis of the overall curriculum should be undertaken before any more
requirements are added. Many faculty members are concerned with the difficulties entering students have with English composition and grammar and
are wondering if there should not be a re-examination of our language requirements first. Some faculty members reasoned that Davidson
already has a large number of course offerings and is doing as many things as it can do well. They
feared that there might be pressure to increase the number of non-western courses, to develop areas of study that are
not of primary importance, if the proposal had been passed.

“It is very difficult to be dogmatic about this issue,” said Rhodes. “The EPC and I tried to look at
all the questions that could be raised by such a policy. The vote was close, which means that it might
be brought up again in the future.”

Course plan: There is no clear agreement as to what constitutes an “adequate reason” for a student to take a
reduced load. Senior Clay Houchens took two courses in summer school at Davidson several years ago. She applied for a
reduced load winter term, stating as her reason the fact that she was two credits ahead. “It seems like if
a student’s ahead of normal progress that should be a sufficient reason,” Houchens said.

Houchens received the letter from Burts explaining the new position of the CRC. She described what the committee would consider
an “adequate” reason. She applied again, stating preparation during the winter term for a 401 course in the spring involving
both GREs and a comprehensive examination as her reason for requesting a reduced load. Houchens has been told by Burts
that she will be notified of the Committee’s decision next Tuesday. She will be allowed to go through drop/add Tuesday
if necessary. Sally Bondurant needs only found the letter somewhat ambiguous in that it did not clearly... (See ZIMMERMANN, page
2)
