“We have begun to think about offering fellowships to upperclassmen,” said Director of NCF John Kello. “At our next meeting,
the Advisory Board will discuss how we might go about doing this. It is my feeling that the question at
this point is not whether we want to do it, but what is the most effective and fair way to
do it,” Kello continued. “It’s a matter of means at this point.”

According to Kello, “the pretty general agreement on the Advisory Board seems to reflect something like a consensus among the
students and the trustees of the program, that there ought to be some way of accepting upperclassmen. There are people
who could really take advantage of this opportunity whom we miss because of the modest size of the program and
because of the fact that any selection process may miss from time to time.”

Kello feels that this proposal “ought to work” because “there are upperclassmen who, once given the opportunity, could really benefit
from it.”

By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

Despite the boycott which took place outside, the 1977 Spring Awards Convocation went as planned. It was an “easy-going, pleasant
affair,” said Assistant to the President Peter Clark, who did much of the work of organizing the event. The Class
of 1977 was honored with two speakers, U.S. Congressman Richardson Preyer (D., N.C.), and the President of Reynolds Metals, Richard
Reynolds Jr.

Congressman Preyer, a distinguished member of the House of Representatives who served on Davidson’s Board of Visitors and as Chairman
of the Parents’ Council, gave the Convocation Address. Preyer said that this generation will face a number of great challenges,
but that it is an exciting time in history. Both Preyer and Reynolds received honorary LL.D. degrees from College President
Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.

Preyer and SGA President Thom Young made reference to the boycott outside. Preyer said that he did not know enough
about the situation to make a judgment about it, but emphasized that President Spencer was a good man and could
handle the situation well. Young asked members of the audience “who shared the boycotters’ commitments on the Christian tenure policy”
to stand, demonstrating “we are working for a more equitable tenure policy for our college.” Estimates indicated that about 3/4
of the students and 2/3 of the faculty present stood.

Awards presented included:
- McGavock Mathematics Award: Corwin W. Young
- Jefferson Davis Award: Steven G. Justus
- Thomas Sparrow Award: Paul S. Andrews
- Ruth C. Murphey Award: Roger H. Brown, Jr.
- Marvin E. Lively Award: Margaret F. Campbell
- Barbara L. Payne Award: Laurie L. Dunn
- Mark W. Scandling Award: Dana L. English
- Thomas C. Pinckney, III Award: Richard E. Fay
- Tommy Peters Award: Santford F. Martin
- Stephen Mark Rabil Award: Catherine E. Landis
- Paul S. Andrews Award: Richard E. Fay
- J. Todd Sahlroot Award: Thomas C. Pinckney, III
- Rebecca A. Hayden Award: Ruth C. Murphey
- J. Silver, III Award: Marvin E. Lively
- Agnes Sentelle Brown Award: Barbara L. Payne
- David K. Tinkler Award: Mark W. Scandling
- Omicron Delta Kappa Selections: David K. Tinkler, Sandy Black Memorial Award: C. Foster Jennings, Jr., M. Gilliam Skinner, David
Howard Chemistry Award: Robert E. Hutchinson, Jr., Steven G. Justus, Corwin W. Young, N.C. Air National Guard Award: Dr. Samuel
D. Maloney, James B. Woods, III Memorial Award: Matthew B. Horne, Daniel Blain Woods Award: Steven G. Justus

April 29, 1977

Although the proposal has not been officially taken up by the Advisory Board, Kello sees three alternative methods for selecting
fellows. One, that “semi-finalists who were not in fact selected to be NC Fellows” be invited. Two, that “recommendations from
counselors, from faculty, from the Dean of Students, and so on can be taken for outstanding individuals.” And three, that
“something else be devised.”of a mini-selection procedure” be gone through again. This last alternative, however, would “take a considerable amount
of time and would eat up a lot of resources,” in Kello’s opinion. Kello feels certain that other selection procedures
will be proposed in the Advisory Board meeting. Whatever plan is adopted, Kello wants to be sure that people who
would like to be part of NCF are not “bumped off” of the program. Procedures for the evaluation of students
currently part of the program have not yet been established or discussed. Although there is no procedure in the Fellows
document which deals with such an evaluation, and NCF currently has no mechanism for carrying this process out, Kello expects
that “it would be done mainly by the Advisory Board.”

“The basic information that we need in order to decide who is not using the program is already available,” Kello
explained. Each NCF student has a file in which all information related to his work in or through NCF is
kept. All correspondence to or from the student’s summer internship supervisors, his summary and evaluation of these internships, and a
description of his other NCF-related activities is held in the student’s personal file. “We wouldn't have to do anything extraneous
to what we already do to get that information,” said Kello.

Additionally, a student’s involvement in activities outside of the program would be taken into account in such an evaluation. “We
recognize that, in a funny kind of way, if the program is working well we are likely to have students
who are less involved with the program than they were initially. If we have in fact selected students who show
great leadership potential, then this individual is likely to go on and get involved in student government, the school newspaper,
the Davidson Christian Fellowship, a ‘Y’ group, CROP program.”

Kello evaluated Fellows’ participation in summer internships: “My overall feeling is that when people have taken advantage of their internship
opportunities they’ve taken full advantage of them.” Kello offered two possible explanations of why some don’t take advantage of the
program’s opportunities. Those students who are less actively involved in the program “either have not worked with our office and
Ken Wood’s (Experiential Learning) office early enough in the year and have let summers and other opportunities go by, or
have lined up internships but haven't taken advantage of their opportunities.”

Kello does not see that the program’s limited budget would block the acceptance of upperclassmen into NCF. It would cost
NCF “very little extra money” to admit additional upperclassmen into the program’s set on-campus activities. “The major expense of having
a few more people would be in terms of summer internships. We won’t be getting extra money to help fund
summer internships but our stockpile of paying internships seems to be growing slowly but steadily. We are growing...almost day by
day, and certainly month by month. We are able to open up more paying internships.”

This expansion, according to Kello, is due to the work of Mrs. Martin (Assistant Director of NCF), and through sharing
the contacts and resources of Ken Wood’s office and the trustees of the program. The Trustees, business and professional leaders
in various areas volunteer part of their time to travel the region and the country to talk to people in
various research organizations. “We want NCF to be an alive, working, developing kind of thing. If it isn’t doing that
for an individual, I would hope that the individuals we have in the program would have enough integrity, and a
sense of responsibility to the college community and to the program to say, ‘Look, I’ve made a decision for myself;
this isn’t right for me. I’m not taking advantage of my opportunity and I would give it to someone else.’”
