December 2, 1977

The Davidsonian

3

Hodges challenges Helms in race

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Luther Hodges, Jr., Democratic candidate for U.S. senator from North Carolina, paid a visit to Davidson College Wednesday to speak before the College’s Young Democrats.

Uphill struggle

Hodges, whose father was a popular North Carolina governor and a cabinet member during the Kennedy administration, was president of North Carolina National Bank until he resigned to seek the Senate seat.

Hodges faces a tough uphill struggle against a relatively crowded field of Democratic candidates, including Greensboro lawyer McNeill Smith, who visited Davidson in October, and State Senator E. Lawrence Davis of Winston-Salem and North Carolina Insurance Commissioner John Ingram.

However, many political pundits feel that if Hodges can win the May primary election and gain the Democratic nomination, he stands to give incumbent, conservative Republican Jesse Helms a serious challenge.

Criticizes Helms

In an interview with The Davidsonian, Hodges stated that he felt sure that the number of Democrats currently running would thin out significantly by the January filing deadline.

If he makes it past the Democratic primary, Hodges plans to emphasize that the interests of the people of North Carolina would best be served by a Democrat, since the majority of North Carolinians are Democrats.

Indeed, he criticized Helms' ultra-right wing philosophy when he stated, “Helms is an extremist—a minority even within his own party. Yet North Carolina is by no means an extremist state.

“Therefore, he is certainly not representative of North Carolinians, and he has not shown any effectiveness in Congress by voting against every progressive measure that comes up.”

Hence, his political stance appears to be middle of the road “socially progressive” in areas such as national health insurance, yet fiscally conservative, with an “admittedly business-like orientation.”

Fiscal conservatism

Hodges’ fiscal conservatism was evident as he talked of national health care insurance. “I think we got to have it,” he said.

“If nothing else, people have to be guarded against the ‘catastrophic’ occurrence—a terrible accident or a bout with cancer that might wipe out someone’s life savings due to spiraling hospital costs. But even so, a national plan can’t be Edward Kennedy’s. There have to be some provisions for ‘cost containment,’ in order to keep from fueling the fires of inflation.”

Panama Canal

On the Panama Canal issue, Hodges laments the fact that Helms and the conservatives have turned it into an emotional issue. “It shouldn’t be discussed in that sort of atmosphere,” he said.

“Rather, we should look at it rationally and intelligently. I don’t want to give the Canal away for nothing. But I do believe the treaty will give us much in return—like improved relations with the Latin American countries.”

Aid to private colleges

When asked about Federal aid to private colleges and universities, Hodges pointed out that colleges like Davidson already receive many government funds in the form of research grants, etc.

Yet he does not feel that the Federal government should give money in the form of tuition grants. “As a member of the University of North Carolina’s board of governors, I supported state tuition grants,” he said.

“And I think we will see more state aid in the future. But I’d like it to go directly to the student in the form of an increase in the tuition grant, rather than to the colleges directly.”

Carter to campaign

Hodges feels sure that he will receive strong campaign support from Jimmy Carter if he wins the nomination. “Of course, I’d like Carter to be more popular than he is right now but nevertheless, I’d certainly welcome his support,” he stated.

“I’m sure Carter will campaign aggressively for the Democratic nominee, since he will have the chance of helping to unseat one of the major conservatives in the country, and a vociferous critic of his national programs.”

Hodges hopes to force Helms to face up to issues, and at the same time, “force him into corners when it comes to his political philosophy, and make the people realize how ridiculous his positions are.”

Vandalism curbed but not stopped

By JEFF METZEL
Staff Writer

College officials have noted a general decline in the incidence of vandalism this year though destructive acts by students and outsiders continue to be a problem.

Davidson Police Captain Jack Hughes complains that the worst problem this year has been with fire extinguishers. He estimates that students discharge four extinguishers per week.

Hughes warns that these actions violate federal law and could seriously impair student safety in case of a fire.

This threat is especially pertinent in light of other incidents of vandalism which have involved carelessness with fire and its use in defacing College property.

During Thanksgiving vacation, for example, someone burned the notes and name labels off the doors on a floor in Belk, and set several trash cans on fire.

Another major incidence of vandalism last term occurred when someone rolled the ARA service truck down Patterson Court Hill, breaking two of its windows.

To date the culprit has not been found though indications are that it was a student.

Despite these acts, Hughes is generally pleased with student behavior this year. Both Love Auditorium and Grey Union, which are usually trouble spots, have been unharmed.

Hughes attributes the decline in vandalism largely to increased student awareness of the problem and to the implementation of a policy requiring community children to carry special I.D. cards while on campus.

Dean of Students Will Terry is also pleased with the decrease in destructive incidents which he attributes to “student concern and consciousness of the problem.”

But he warns “that there are still those people who seem to think they show a macho image by tearing off towel dispensers...Therefore it is a problem we must continue to be alerted to.”

Terry notes that last year’s rash of vandalism, especially the costly destruction in the Union, seems to have made students more conscious of their behavior.