February 11, 1977

The Davidsonian

13

TOP SEED ALLARD CASTELEIN practices ground strokes as season approaches. (Irv Wilson)

Challenging slate faces tennis team

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

Davidson’s men’s varsity tennis team began practice last week and coach Jeff Frank appears to be optimistic about the season ahead, despite the large number of young and relatively inexperienced players on the team.

“We have a really young team this year, but I think as the season progresses and the players are able to get more experience we should finish the year strongly,” Frank commented.

The team lost Chip Bondurant, its top-seeded player last year, to the Junior Year Abroad program as well as its third-seeded player, John Mitchell, who graduated.

According to coach Frank, the top four players on the team, at the present time, are Allard Castelein, an international student from Holland, juniors Mike Barnhill and Brian Cooper, and sophomore John Trout.

Frank is also counting heavily on junior Stewart Boswell and freshmen Harry Griffith, Jeff Lyle, and Rick Johnston. In doubles, sophomore Andy White and junior Brian Berry will be relied on for experience.

The schedule this year will be harder than past years with the addition of Penn State, VMI, and the University of Virginia.

“The roughest portion of our schedule will come early in the season. I think, in the long run, this will help the team because the best way to get the team ready is to play as many tough matches as possible early in the season,” Frank remarked.

“I feel we will be ready by the time the Southern Conference Championship comes around. We will also have the advantage of playing the championship here at Davidson where our players will have an advantage on the clay courts.”

The tennis team’s first match will be away against UNCC on Saturday, March 5, during spring break.

N.C. A & T outgunned

By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

A high-powered Davidson College rifle team easily defeated N.C. A & T at a February 5 home match by a score of 1285 to 1113. The win boosted the Wildcat shooters’ record to 10-3.

Highlights of the match were sophomore Katherine Whitney’s record 267 and the five-man team total of 1285, a three-year record score for the Wildcats.

Whitney and fellow sophomore Tom Niblock tied with match high 98’s in the prone position. Whitney captured the high kneeling score with a frightening 93. Junior Tom Miller had the high standing score at 79.

Miller and Niblock tied with 259’s. Senior Ben Simms posted a 254. Senior Rob Mitchell rounded out the top five with a 246.

Freshmen Robbie Kirkendol and John Parham performed extremely well, posting scores of 243 and 233, respectively. Parham’s 97 in the prone and 89 kneeling were an unexpected, but crucial contribution to the team’s overall score. Only a poor standing score kept John from counting in the top five. Varsity regular Bob Shoulders complained of eye trouble and did not compete. Wildcat Coach Jerry Flannigan was very pleased with Saturday’s strong showing.

Flannigan feels this will build his shooters’ confidence as they prepare for a tough match against an experienced William and Mary team on February 12th.

Clemson rolls Tigers

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

Clemson’s Lady Tigers dominated the Wildkittens in just about every way imaginable en route to their 83-38 win in Johnston Gym last night. The game started out slowly with both teams committing numerous turnovers. Early foul trouble hampered Clemson, but they soon began to put their height advantage to good use.

Moving the ball well inside, the Tigers jumped out to a nine-point lead behind Janet Forester’s ten rebounds and eight points. At the half, Clemson led 32-22.

Clemson could do no wrong in the second half, and quickly expanded their lead. Their pressing defense harassed the error-burdened Wildkittens, and from then on it was just a question of how long the game would last.

Davidson was led by Sarah Womack’s eight points, all in the first half, and Cindy Morrison’s seven points.

The loss dropped the Davidson women to 7-6. All of the Wildkittens’ remaining games are on the road, their next game is Friday, February 11, against Campbell College. The Lady Cats will compete in the State Tournament February 23-26 at High Point, N.C.

Plaza Gift Shop
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville. 663-1503

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary