January 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

Cats Lose to Athletes in Action in Overtime

Cats Annihilate Dartmouth Defense

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

The Wildcats capped off Dartmouth Coach Gary Walters' return to Davidson basketball with an inspired performance which produced a 59-54
victory over his Big Green.

The players hadn’t forgotten Walters. Lively voiced the sentiment of the team when he said, “The coach (Walters) gave us
a dirty deal. He ran out on us. He didn’t have the faith to get the job done.”

Lively added, “We all wanted to win the game. We felt we could win. The freshmen knew how much the
upperclassmen wanted to win it.”

The students didn’t forget Walters either. A large banner, recognizing Walters as Davidson’s only undefeated basketball coach, was paraded about
at halftime.

Walters was also given eight roses from the cheerleaders for his eight days here, and a note wishing him as
pleasant a stay as last year’s.

Davidson was sparked to victory by hot shooting from Marvin Lively and a tough defense which forced Dartmouth to shoot
from the perimeter.

Lively had his best offensive night of his career. He was 8 for 10 from the floor and a perfect
4 for 4 from the free throw line for a game-high 20 points.

Marvelous (as Marvin is known by the press) hit most of his shots from close to the right baseline. After
every bucket, Lively ran down the court, his arm raised up, enticing the defense to toughen up.

The defense usually responded. Davidson denied Dartmouth the inside game most of the night, resulting in a less than sparkling
42 percent shooting performance for the Big Green.

Davidson, not faced with the customary height disadvantage it has had in previous games, outrebounded Dartmouth, 39 to 28 as
Pat Hickert pulled down 13 and John Gerdy 9.

Davidson took command of the game early; a basket by Lively put Davidson ahead 17-10 at the 10-minute mark of
the first half. Davidson stretched its halftime lead, 29 to 23, to 14 points at 44 to 30 midway through
the second half.

The Cats coasted from then on and only the shooting touch of Larry Cubas, who led Dartmouth scoring with 19
points, and some missed Davidson free throws made it close.

Coach Pritchett said, “We missed some free throws when we were up by 14 or it wouldn’t have been as
close.”

Davidson sorely needed the win. Lively said, “We finally won a game that was close. We’ve been in a lot
of close games, but they’ve all gone the other way. We found out what it was like to win again.”

The Cats reverted to familiar form against the Athletes in Action, however, as they let another game slip away, losing
80-74 in overtime last night.

Coach Pritchett substituted freely as Lively explained, “He (Coach Pritchett) wanted to get some other guys some playing time together,
to get used to pressure situations.”

The second team consisting of Mark Summalt, Rick Perkey, Locke White, Carter Todd, and Danny Hock combined to score 17
points and played the Athletes in Action even when they were in the game, including the first ten minutes of
the second half.

The starting squad rallied from a 60-56 deficit, by employing an effective zone trap defense, to claim a 66-60 lead
with less than 1:30 remaining.

The Cats grew careless, though, and the Athletes in Action came roaring back to knot the score at 66 all,
and force an overtime.

Davidson held between a 2 and 4 point lead in overtime until Harry Sheehy, who had 25 points for the
game, hit two free throws to put the Athletes in Action ahead 76-74. The Athletes in Action went on to
win by six.

Although it will be hard to rebound from such a disappointing loss, Pritchett has been pleased with the team’s intensity:
“Our kids come to play every game; they’re character people.”

While pointing out the team’s stellar defense throughout the year, Pritchett remarked, “We must get better in offensive poise and
efficiency. We do it in spots, but it’s really hard for two sophomores, two freshmen, and a senior who’s been
on the bench to learn to play together.”

MENU:

SOUL FOOD NIGHT

Tuesday Night January 25th
5 p.m. Richards and Bailey Houses

Catfish Head Soup
Barbeque Opossum Ribs
Pan Fried Rabbit Legs
Blackeyed Tadpole Beans
Greens and Red Eye Gravy
Corn Mill Bread
Creesey Greens
Hominy
Rice Pudding
Sweet Potato Pie
Tea
Cold Cow’s Milk

Y’all come now, you hear!

Advanced reservations now being taken.

Call 892-4781 Ext. 348.
Ask for Ron Fatts.

PAT HICKERT adds two more Wildcat points as he drives through the Dartmouth defense. (Irv Wilson)

MARVELOUS MARV displays some of the “Lively” action that contributed to the Wildcats’ victory Saturday over the Big Green of
Dartmouth. (Irv Wilson)
