January 28, 1977

The Davidsonian

IF CARTMILL REALIZES his dream, Davidson swimmers will have a six-lane pool with adequate diving facilities.

(Irv Wilson)

Country club atmosphere in

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

It appears that Davidson College will be moving toward a country club atmosphere if Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill is able to realize his plans for future athletic facilities.

“A country club set-up would fit in well here at Davidson,” Cartmill commented.

Cartmill is outlining tentative plans for a building that would house both indoor tennis courts and a swimming pool, a nine-hole golf course, additional squash and racketball courts, and new intramural basketball courts.

Scheduling no problem if Cats withdraw from SC

By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

The Davidson College Athletic Department is currently reviewing Davidson’s position in the Southern Conference.

It was announced last June that Davidson would be pulling out of the conference effective July 1, 1977.

Athletic Director Thom Cartmill indicated that the Southern Conference is very much interested in keeping the Wildcats in the conference.

“The Southern Conference has expressed a strong interest in our not divorcing ourselves from the conference. We are still a member of the conference and will be such until June 30.

“There is a strong feeling in the conference to have us stay in because we can add a great deal to their basketball portion of the conference which is quickly becoming the main focal point of the conference.”

Cartmill pointed out that the winner of the Southern Conference receives an automatic bid to NCAA Tournament competition.

“This would be the most severe loss we would suffer,” he explained.

Cartmill said that a final decision would have to be reached before July 1. The decision would rest in the hands of the trustees.

He did say that he did think that it would be “wise to review our situation. We have to consider two things, first our basketball program and then post-season competition for our young people.”

He pointed out that there would be few scheduling problems if Davidson did pull out of the conference. He indicated that there were some problems in both basketball and some secondary sports in the area of post-season competition.

“In basketball we don’t foresee any scheduling problems because Davidson has an established name in basketball.”

“We would hope that the majority of our Southern Conference opponents would continue to schedule us and we would like to schedule them. We still have a national reputation so that the Notre Dames, the Ohio States, the N.C. States would still continue to schedule us,” he explained.

If Davidson does withdraw from the conference, the school would first seek to join a conference where Davidson could be competitive in a wide range of sports.

Cartmill expressed some concern, however, about the feasibility of this.

“In modern day athletics it is very difficult to have an across-the-board conference from the standpoint that there is such diversification within a school.

“It is our first desire certainly to be in a conference that would serve all sports, but our second choice would be to be in a basketball conference.”

“My dream for the future is to have a building that would include indoor tennis courts and an indoor-outdoor swimming facility. I am especially concerned with increasing our indoor facilities because they will give the students a wider range of opportunities during the winter,” he explained.

Currently, Davidson has an outdated swimming pool, and lacks an adequate number of intramural athletic fields, basketball courts, and racketball and squash courts.

Senior Jonathan Washburn commented on the swimming pool: “I have never seen another school that has a 4-lane pool. Most schools have 6 lanes and some even have 8 lanes.

“It is very difficult to practice with only 4 lanes because it is so crowded. We also have a problem getting other swimming teams to come here to compete because they can only enter two swimmers in each event.”

In action this past weekend, Davidson lost two close meets. Old Dominion won 62-54 last Friday, and William and Mary edged the Cats 59-54 on Saturday.

Cartmill realizes what the most pressing problems are. “My top priorities include building new intramural basketball courts, new racketball and squash courts, and a new swimming facility.”

Two new fields have already been leveled and, as soon as the grass is planted, they can be used by intramural sports, the women’s field hockey team, and club sports. These fields are much larger than the current fields.

However, two of the present intramural fields (#3 and #4) will no longer be available because they are part of the first hole of the golf course which has already been partially completed.

Cartmill commented, “We have almost completed one hole on the golf course. This summer I hope to put in the green and I hope it will not be too long before we can complete three holes. In the future, I plan to complete a nine-hole course.

“At the present time, I am trying to determine a site for a building that will have an indoor-outdoor swimming pool and indoor tennis courts. The pool will have diving facilities, six lanes, and a movable bulkhead.

The bulkhead separates the swimming area and the diving area and can be adjusted for races of 25 yards or 25 meters.

“This building would be operated in a club type of arrangement with the townspeople paying a fee for use of the facilities.”

The basic obstacle to Cartmill’s plans is a lack of funds. He is counting heavily on the $65 million dollar fund drive and outside donations.

The work that has already been done on the golf course and the intramural fields has been funded by money out of the athletic department's capital expenditures budget.