April 15, 1977 The Davidsonian

Hodson cramps their style

Drama is essentially the art of illusion. Going to the theatre does not mean seeing every detail of the production of a play before you, but the end result—the seemingly effortless parade of characters before the crowd. How many times do you attend a play at Davidson and ask whether there is enough room backstage for props, how many people worked to make the costumes, how the set was made? Most people do not even think about it.

Major problems arise with the use of Hodson Hall for dramatic productions. Hodson Hall was originally designated for music recitals—the acoustics are great, the room is small and the stage is high with a slight incline to the back of the auditorium. Since the music and drama departments share the hall, neither can do extensive work there without getting in the way of the other. Dr. Barber doesn’t “feel that we can tie up Hodson for more than two weeks,” although two weeks is not enough to rehearse a play thoroughly and the initial practice sessions have to begin elsewhere. “We have no place to rehearse that is the same size as Hodson Hall,” commented Barber. Therefore, the actors have to begin by estimating the blocking in a smaller area, as well as imagining the sets that they will work with.

Hodson has no room to put the stage. For the pending production, as much set construction was done as was possible in the workshop and the main set construction was put on the stage on April 12, the earliest possible time before the opening night on April 27. Work is often held up because certain projects must wait until the drama department can have access to the stage. Joe Craig, the chairman of the scene painting committee explained, “The structure of the set is pretty intricate, so the scene painting committee doubled up with the set construction committee so we could have something to paint.”

The hall also affords very little room for costume storage, make-up, and dressing areas. Most of the work in this facet of the production is done upstairs above the workshop. Make-up is done in a very small aisle of the upstairs, through which the costume people must pass to get to their work room, which seats about six people at a time. There are 27 people in the cast of “The Madwomen of Chaillot.” Try to imagine it! Paul Schleifer, the chairman of the make-up committee explained: “Make-up, costumes, dressing room and storage are all upstairs, which means that the space is very limited. We have enough room to comfortably work with about six people at a time. The cast of people. We have to use more time to make them up because we cannot fit them all in at the same time.”

Another problem with doing a drama production in Hodson is that there are not enough places for the large lights used in plays. Mr. Gardner has been able to improvise by hanging poles from the stage and even standing some lights on the stage. Hodson has 18 light receptacles (for big lights) in the whole auditorium and no overhead spotlights on the stage itself—just work lights, which cannot be dimmed. The small space problem is multiplied when the Drama 21 class of 70 people all meet to work on the play. Eighteen committees have to find some place to do their work, mostly in the confines of the small area of Hodson. Dr. Barber and Mr. Gardner spend a great deal of time before the auditions are held, planning out the best way to schedule the work, how to plan the set so that the most bulky part can remain on stage, and how to position people in the least obstructive posts during the production.

Although it seems as if productions go quickly and easily here, a lot of time is wasted managing a play and cast around inadequate space. As Dr. Barber commented, “People only see the end product. They assume that you do not need more space if...

Preview it — Taft to lecture

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

William Howard Taft IV and his wife Julia Vadala Taft, Woodrow Wilson Senior Fellows, will be speaking in classes and at public lectures at Davidson from April 18 to 22. Since graduation from Howard Law School, Mr. Taft has held positions in the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Management and Budget, and the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. From April to December, 1976, he served, by presidential appointment, as General Counsel of HEW; currently he has a private law practice in Washington. Mrs. Taft served from May 1975 to January 1976 as Director of the Interagency Task Force on Indochina Refugees.which involved coordinating the entire refugee resettlement program. For her successful management of the resettlement, she was awarded the Arthur S. Fleming Award as one of Ten Outstanding Young Men and Women in Federal Service. In 1973, she was appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary for Human Development, HEW; as such she was involved with the Office of Manpower, Office of Native American Programs, etc. She graduated from the University of Colorado with an M.A. in International Politics. The Tafts will deliver speeches, as well as several addresses to classes and small groups, including the following public lectures: 10 am Wednesday in the Davidson Art Gallery, W.H. Taft on "The Federal Budgetary Process"; 7:30 pm Wednesday in the 900 Room, Julia Taft on "Crisis Management and a Case Study of the Indochina Refugee Program"; 10:30 am Thursday in the Art Gallery, Julia Taft on "Citizen Participation in Government"; 7 pm Thursday in the 900 Room, W.H. Taft on "Relationships of the Academic Community."

A full-sized set other than on "The Madwomen" has 27 you can do it in a small area.

Taft Call for alumni cash draws varied response

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Although the final pledged amount—about $37,200—is a great boost to Davidson’s Living Endowment, perhaps the greatest benefit of the recently-completed Dial-A-Alumni campaign was the mutually enlightened conversation between students and alumni. The campaign involved 170 students. Around 4000 alumni—all those east of Colorado except in most of Georgia and North Carolina—were contacted by telephone or mail (about 1700 were actually reached by phone). Comments received from alumni ranged from "sure, I’ll pledge; put me down for a thousand" to "I’ll never give a cent to Davidson." About 540 alums actually pledged a definite amount, and a great many more made indefinite pledges.

Reasons offered by those who would not donate were varied. Some alibis were understandable, such as having to pay for law or medical school, having a young family to support, or having to put children through college. Other excuses for holding out were not so good—some former students didn’t like coeducation, drinking on campus, etc. A few alums said they only gave to athletics at Davidson, via the Wildcat Club. Many alumni criticized college policy, particularly coeducation, sale of beer in the Union, low admission standards, abolishment of mandatory chapel, and the like. Many others praised the college for the very same reasons. According to Tom Bernhardt, Director of the Living Endowment, "For every word of criticism we received there was usually another word of praise from someone else."

Some alumni had old gripes with Davidson which kept them from giving. Junior Bill Gaynor talked to a graduate who, in 1963, felt himself very much a radical and fought with the college all during his academic career about issues like mandatory ROTC, hiring women professors, and no coeducation. Other alums were mad with the college because their son or daughter wasn’t accepted. A Texas rancher would not give because he had heard that Ramsey Clark lectured at Davidson once. One interesting thing this reporter learned while calling on the large number of Davidson grads who married Queens women. Alumni generally seemed to have better feelings about Davidson after having talked to students. Senior Bo Baskin said that he received pledges from men who hadn't given in forty years or so, simply because they felt out of touch with the college and its students. "If we just wanted to raise money, we could have found a much better way," said Baskin, "but this way both the alumni and students were enriched by the experience."

Student participants generally enjoyed the calling. Some reported having 15-25 minute conversations with alumni about coeducation, fraternities, professional schools, and other topics. Calling alumni was more helpful than most participants realized. "Their calls not only drew pledges, but were also very important in updating our alumni files," said Bernhardt. "We reached alumni who had moved several times since last contact with the college and who hadn’t heard anything about Davidson in years. Being involved in this campaign is the most helpful thing students here will ever do for Davidson," Bernhardt added.

Bernhardt expects to receive about $30,000 of the money pledged, plus $15,000 to $20,000 from alumni who didn’t specify an amount. The total cost of the campaign (phone bill and installation costs, food, two stolen phones, etc.) will probably be about 10 percent of the take. According to Bernhardt, that is usual for such a campaign. Already about $7500 has been received from 150 alumni. Also received were ten letters praising this method of fund raising and expressing appreciation for being able to talk to students, and two letters from grads who didn’t like the idea. Three hundred and fifty hoagies, about 275 cups of beer, 275 soft drinks, 1320 pickles, and countless potato chips were consumed during the three-week campaign.