April 15, 1977
The Davidsonian

Cartmill quells golf course rumors
By HAROLD HINTON
Staff Writer

Students and faculty members who have been eagerly awaiting the opportunity to condemn the proposed golf facility as an example
of fiscal irresponsibility may be disappointed: the only outlay, the seeding of a tee area, will possibly total twenty dollars.
There are no plans at present to spend any additional funds, according to Athletic Director Thomas A. Cartmill.

In recent weeks, rumors had indicated that the athletic department was preparing to build a three, nine, or eighteen-hole golf
course east of the baseball diamond. However, Cartmill said the department was simply preparing a fairway as a practice area
for the golf team and physical education classes.

The athletic director outlined the events which apparently sparked the rumors: New intramural fields are being built now on the
hill directly north of the baseball field. There will be four fields. This action was initiated by college officials months
ago because of the obvious lack of intramural facilities and because of the need for field hockey and club sport
areas. After dirt had been hauled in for the new fields, there was some excess fillage.

Because there are no practice facilities for the golf team except for congested IMAC fields, the athletic department decided that
the excess dirt could be used to create a fairway. The dirt was moved to the west end of the
two IMAC fields beside the cemetery. A hedge between the two fields was removed. After the seeding process has been
completed, there will be a fairway and tee. Cartmill noted that those two IMAC fields were the smallest on campus
and that the four new fields will alleviate any pressure caused by the creation of the fairway.

Moving the excess dirt did cost $2,000. Nevertheless, it was necessary to move the dirt somewhere so work on the
new fields could progress; and it would have probably cost at least $2,000 to put the dirt anywhere. Cartmill said
there are no plans to seek funds for a green on the fairway in the immediate future. All departments have
submitted plans for improvement and expansion for the coming decades.

Eventually, the athletic department does hope to have a multi-hole golf course, complete with greens, but that is a goal
for the very distant future. Upon completion of the new IMAC fields, Cartmill proudly noted that the baseball diamond, the
fairway, and the new fields would be in close proximity to each other with a central parking lot.

Court argues over clubs’ autonomy
[Continued from page 1]

systems and help alleviate some of the problems with self-selection. It would be more fair to the nationals while removing
some pressure from those involved in self-selection.”

Anders, in an earlier interview, argued for the increased autonomy of each national and the right of each house to
handle their own affairs. Russ Martin, Secretary of Emanon, pointed out at the meeting that “the non-fraternity houses would be
at a disadvantage.” He argued that those freshmen who entered the bid system would have access to the whole court
while the independents would have the option of only self-selection.

Ed Crosland, representing Fannie and Mabel’s, said that the Anders proposal would not change the abuses of the present system
in that it would stimulate an early fall rush. The Fijis and SPEs, two fraternities who moved off-campus in the
early '70s in order to preserve their independence, expressed varying positions. The Fijis said they could not support the proposal
without a guarantee of regaining a house on the Court in the near future. This would alleviate a financial and
potential rush problem for the Phi Gamms.

Sig Ep President Stacey Johnson issued the following statement: “Since Sigma Phi Epsilon is not a voting member of PCC
and since the proposal being considered does not directly affect off-campus fraternities it would be counter-productive for us to come
out either for or against it. However, we have consistently maintained that national fraternities have a right to regulate their
own affairs. Our move off campus served to protect that right. Therefore, we lend our moral support to the on-campus
fraternities in whatever measures they feel necessary to preserve their rights.”

Proposals passed by the PCC will then be recommended to the Sub-Committee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life.
Kathryn Bridges, President of PCC said that it is likely that all these proposals will eventually end up before that
sub-committee. “We're going to go through it all and vote on it Sunday,” said Bridges in conclusion.

The matters of procedure voted on by the Council were that the President was to vote only in the case
of a tie.and Rusk House was given the right to vote since it conducts regular meetings and holds social functions
on the Court. ...SGA and PAC express wish to cooperate (Continued from page 1) “I just don’t want another SIR
form where the students fill it out and don’t get anything in return. My concern and my commitment is that
the students get a voice,” Young said. Spencer stated that the two-part plan is “possible,” but that it is only
one of many alternatives. Spencer sees this statistical form issue as only one of the faculty evaluation difficulties which must
be worked out when Dr. Zimmerman, the new Academic Vice-President, arrives next summer. Zimmerman will be confronted with the responsibility
of drafting a “Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures” to fulfill the directives of the 1976 College Constitution. Although the Constitution
only specifically states that the “President or his delegate” should work in conjunction with the faculty to draft the “Code,”
Young wants the students to play a role also. Young wants a student representative and a faculty representative to “sit
down with the new Academic Vice-President to come up with the ‘Code.’” “I really challenge Dr. Zimmerman to undertake his
constitutional responsibility with the evaluations,” Young said.

SGA course evaluation informs students

The SGA Committee on Student Course Evaluations announced yesterday that the winter term statistics have been tabulated and will be
ready for distribution at the end of this week. Although actually 62 fewer forms were turned in for winter evaluation
than for fall, the committee considers both returns as being approximately equivalent. Ralph Yielding, who supervised the assimilation of winter
term results, said, “I had hoped for a much larger return. But the fact that we didn’t get it doesn’t
mean the results are inaccurate.” The winter statistics will actually be more accurate than those in the fall, according to
committee advisor Dana English. “We were much more careful in going back over the last computer printout to check for
errors,” she said. The winter results did meet the SGA’s two statistical requirements of at least a 25 percent overall
return and three forms filled out for each course to be included in the printed pamphlet. The new statistics will
be rounded off to the nearest decimal in another SGA attempt to achieve greater accuracy. The fall results were rounded
to the nearest whole number.

The SGA plans to publish both the fall and winter results in an evaluation handbook, together with subjective evaluations by
area majors. Each professor will be given the opportunity to unite his own concept of the courses he teaches. The
handbook, edited by Jim Clark, will be published over the summer and will be ready for distribution to students next
fall. The SGA originally wanted to mail each incoming freshman a copy during the summer to help in their course
selection, but postage costs proved prohibitive. Similar handbooks came out in the fall of 1970 and 1973. No statistical information
was published last year due to a mix-up with the computer office. According to English, the committee thought that the
evaluation handbooks were very valuable to students and decided to put out a new version. “We’d like to see a
handbook come out every year,” she said. English said that the short-range goal of the committee is to “provide information
to students to aid in the selection of courses. In no way are we trying to evaluate professors for such
things as pay raises and tenures.” SGA President Thom Young said, “Within the limited scope of the committee, its members
are accomplishing everything they’ve set out to do. I think the committee is doing one hell of a job right
now.”

You can help the Union Arts and Crafts Committee plan for next year by answering the questions below. Indicate your
responses by circling their numbers. Envelopes for the completed questionnaires are on dorm bathroom doors and at the Union desk.

1. What Union Arts and Crafts program(s) have you participated in this year?
1. pottery
2. copper enameling
3. sculpting
4. none

2. What programs would you like to see continued next year?
1. pottery
2. copper enameling
3. sculpting
4. none

3. Which program(s) would you be interested in participating in next year?
1. pottery
2. copper enameling
3. sculpting
4. leathercraft
5. macrame
6. woodworking
Other suggestions:

4. If you have a craft skill you would like to teach others, please fill out the blanks below or
contact John Trout, L110, -6338.
Room Number:
Name:
Phone:
Class:
Skill:

5. If you have suggestions for better methods of operation of Arts and Crafts facilities please give them below or
talk to a member of the committee: John Trout, Leea Pittenger, Beth Hill, Tim Bonsack, Ginny Newell, John Highsmith, T.
Griffin, Brian Jacobs, Lisa Shingler, Capt. Kotula.
