September 30, 1977

“Ralph,” I didn’t want to wake up the fellow lecturing to us. “There aren’t any heroes anymore.”

“Damn right,” he said. “Princess Caroline’s married, Elvis ain’t shakin’, and Groucho isn’t slouching around. And hey, you see that
girl over there? Ringer for Farrah Fawcett-Majors. Cool, huh?”

“That’s exactly my point. All you can think of are media people, images. Nobody you can reach out and grab.
No real flesh and blood heroes.”

We were talking pretty loud and the woman next to us in the quiana blouse was giving us evil looks,
thinking maybe the noise would prompt the fellow to ask a question in our direction, so we clammed up. I
mulled it over while doodling pale blue dunes and spent-wing coachmen across the top of my notes. Between the demise
of the extended family and the rise of the tube, local heroes had been swallowed up. Nuclear families don’t allow
for black sheep uncles that fish all weekend, drink and whore all night, and write for a brash little paper
in the off hours. There was room for his type in the big family that lived in the same town;
room, tolerance, respect, and love. But everybody's got to be respectable and hardworking in a middle-class nuclear family, and how
would TV package such a fellow anyway? No room for rascals here.

Let’s take time to consider the hall. It’s a good institution for many students (Cathy Landis, The Davidsonian, Volume LXVII,
Number 3, p. 4), but let’s ask some fundamental questions. If virtue is knowledge, can virtue be taught? Why are
Hostess Twinkies cream-filled? For that matter, what is so sacred about horizontal halls? We would like to commend the editor
for her intellectual investigation of the “Freshman Hall Concept,” but implore her to look deeper. As she so astutely observed,
“The security that the hall provides...becomes a security blanket in which students turn to avoid challenge and stimulation.” Obviously, insecurity
leads to growth. Why not foster growth by eliminating horizontal halls? Vertical halls, as an alternative, would nurture that insecurity
for which we grope. Imagine stepping out of your room into a 23-story free-fall and landing at the other end
of the hall. Why stop there? We could construct swinging halls; you would never know if you would sleep on
the floor, the walls, or the ceiling. Mobile halls: the ultimate in insecurity. You would never know where your hall
might be when you return from class. For the highly motivated student, hardened criminals could be chosen for hall counselors,
insecurity phones installed, exploding johns designed. We could release sharks at the Freshman Regatta, plant landmines in the outdoor classroom,
electrify handrails, have our homecoming theme based on a Stalin purge, or annually sacrifice a virgin from the Freshman Class
to the volcano god. Fortunately, being a progressive institution, Davidson is already blessed with three maximum insecurity devices: our infirmary
and our police.To the Editor:

I'm hangin' on 'em all the time, gettin' in the way of the game and stuff. Media heroes don't last
too damn long though. I think havin' all that electricity shootin' through 'em just burns 'em out. And then the
image fades and another one takes their place. As we were leavin' that class and Ralphy was wakin' up again,
he shot me again in the ribs, “Catch that one. Looks like Wonder Woman.”

“Haven't you been listenin' to what I've been writin'? Never believe what you read, that's what I say.”

“Mmm.”

The force does their utmost to make us feel insecure, and how much more could ARA Food Services do? We
can at least make options available. By forcing freshmen to decide which alternative they want before they even understand their
choices, we are effectively instilling the kind of insecurity needed to cultivate unimpeded growth. Too long has the horizontal hall
gone without question; water won't even drain off after water fights. We need to conduct a thorough evaluation to make
sure we establish a system of greatest value to the entire college community.

Anonymous
Davidson College

Wake up freshmen!

To the Editor:

I am writing this letter to address the freshman class. Why did the meeting called by SGA President Thom Young
this past Tuesday for all freshmen have only 40 students out of the class of 400 attend? Why was freshman
participation in the Patterson Court open houses on Monday somewhat sparse? Why don’t more freshmen go to the discos and
band parties on campus?

As an upperclassman, I sense the lack of freshman involvement is because freshmen are studying during many of these activities.
I understand that Davidson's workload is demanding and that as freshmen you wish to establish yourselves academically, and this is
admirable. But I would like to suggest to you that studying all the time is not the best way to
achieve academic success at Davidson. Indeed, the more you get involved in other activities, the better you will do in
your studies.

If you do nothing but study, it is bound to affect you emotionally, physically, and socially. And as you are
affected detrimentally in these areas, your studies will be hurt as well. All your frustrations will be bottled up inside
you with no way to let them out. But if you get involved in various fun and interesting activities, you
will have a chance to spend your excess energy, to express yourself, to vent your frustrations, and to divert yourself
from purely academic pursuits. Then, with a clearer mind and a better disposition, you will be able to study better.

Naturally, involvement will leave you with less time to study, but I suggest that this, too, may be beneficial. If
you know that you have all day and night to study, it is much easier to waste small bits of
time doing nothing. This loss of time is unnecessary. But if you must schedule studies around various activities, you will
use your study time more efficiently. You'll learn to do more work in less time and thereby will become more
effective students, academically and otherwise.

So get involved, freshman class, and it will help you with your studies. And at the same time, your Davidson
experience will be much more pleasant, since you will be living as a well-rounded, whole person.

Mike Lins ’79
Davidson College

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length. Letters received in The Davidsonian offices by Sunday night
will ordinarily be printed that week.
