September 30, 1977

By KEVIN SHELLY,
Staff Columnist

Unlike its older and better-known rival to the north, Cape Lookout National Seashore remains largely unspoiled by human hands. Up
the road apiece is Hatteras National Seashore, with a paved highway forming a spine down its sandy back; small villages
serve the local populace and transients with various degrees of success.

None of these amenities or their related problems exist on the three islands that make up the National Seashore, but
that doesn’t mean that they are without some problems of their own.

Some of the land on the Core Bank and most of the property on the adjacent Shackleford Banks is still
privately owned. The State and the Interior departments are slowly buying up land and residences, but this has not been
favorably received by those who have invested their money, time, and parts of their lives in the islands. An undercurrent
of resentment blows over the islands with the shifting sands.

Still, Cape Lookout offers some pleasures available nowhere else, unless your granddaddy happened to have bought an island for duck
hunts and summering.

To get there, you have to drive on US 70 through Morehead City, so you might as well stop at
Tony's Sanitary Restaurant on the way. Terrible name; great food. Wipe your mouth and take the Harker’s Island turnoff and
just keep going 'til you run out of land.

At the Cape Lookout Motel, you can make reservations on a sailing ferry that’ll take you round trip for about
six dollars. Regular service ends about Thanksgiving, so you may have to make special arrangements for other times (Call 728-3062
days). Stop at the quonset just up the road and talk with the rangers. They were uncommonly helpful with my
island, storms blow up fierce, and bugs fly in squadrons. There are no campsites as in developed areas, but you're
best back behind the first dune, away from the tides, the buggy brush, and with just enough breeze to keep
bugs off and tents up.

The beach area is fascinating and park naturalists help explain plant succession and adaptation to an inhospitable environment. They'll also
run through the human history of the islands, and visits to the lighthouse and WWII bunkers are within easy access
of the ferry site.

The bight area of Cape Lookout is perhaps the best shelling area in North Carolina and is only three miles
from the ferry. Also in that direction is Les and Sally’s Store, a hold-out from private ownership days. They are
wonderful people to talk with about the plight of people dispossessed by their government. The store has more than all
the end to end.

If you know how to savor solitude, you'll love this place and all the effort it takes to get there.
Otherwise, Myrtle Beach and the Ripley’s Believe-It-Or-Not Museum are just on down the road in South Carolina.

---

Local hang gliders look for company in the air

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Straining against wind and sky above scrub-dappled sand dunes in an eighteen-foot hang-glider is one way to experience the fall
season that hasn't really caught on with Davidson students yet.

If all the hard-core kite addicts on campus got together, they could probably comfortably spend the remainder of the year
in one dorm room.

“Around here,” admitted one student enthusiast, Mike Busch, with a thoughtful pause, “it’s not too terribly popular.”

“Most people think they would enjoy hang-gliding — but they just don’t have the coordination. They bite the dust a
lot," he explained.

Ever since he took his first flight as a high school sophomore in Grand Rapids, Michigan, Busch has found that
for him kites offer a wonderful release, an experience in freedom.

“Hang-gliding is not like anything else I’ve ever done. There's no way to describe it. You have to do it
to know what it’s like. Even if you just get four feet off the ground it’s an incredible experience,” he
said.

Between the mountains and the outer banks, the Davidson vicinity offers some of the best kiting areas in the country,
according to Busch.

“There are established places where people like to go—Grandfather’s Mountain and Nag’s Head are two of the most popular.”

Although many people shy away from hang-gliding, for fear that it is too dangerous, Busch seemed to feel that it
is no more dangerous than other sports.

“It’s safe if you follow the precautions. But it can be as dangerous as you want. If you go out
there and act careless you're gonna get yourself killed,” he warned.

Busch recommended that people just starting out not try it on their own. “It’s best to go out with a
licensed instructor. It takes years of practice to develop good judgment, but you can get the basic elementary stuff down
in one afternoon off of a small hill for around $20.”

One of the few Kitty Hawk Kites instructors in this part of the state happens to work in town. Terry
Harp, part-owner of the Peregrine How restaurant, has given lessons to college students before.

“I take anybody that wants to go. I furnish all equipment — harness, helmet, everything. I’m easy to get in
touch with,” he said.

---

An amateur political scientist and sociologist can have a wonderful time without taking one poll.

SAFETY’S the first word in backpacking, demonstrates Steve Coffey—if it's done right; Helmets can save many bruised skulls if a
bad slip sends the hiker tumbling down a mountainside.

(Hunter Jennings)
