~~ December 16, 1977 The Davidsonian - 2 ~~

Faculty impressions of grades, involvement

By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

Is the Davidson student the complacent, socially oriented, “grade-grubbing,” and unimaginative person that seems to typify the student of the '70s? The impressions of several professors prove to be remarkably similar.

“There are some obvious things going on,” observed Professor of Sociology, Norman B. Koller. “The students are generally more conservative, are showing a renewed interest in fraternities, which reflects an interest in social life, and a greater desire to fit in, of being liked more.”

Professor of Religion, Daniel D. Rhodes agreed, “Contrary to the activistic period of the '60s, there is now more of a mood among students desiring to find their place in the social order as it is coupled with a desire to opt into the established professions.”

David E. Shi, professor of history elaborated further, “There are larger factors at work: we are in a general period of prosperity and peace and the students, unlike those of the '60s, were encouraged to look at and question themselves. They have, as a result, developed a ‘step-ladder’ approach to life.

“Today students float into career choices without considering why,” Shi continued. “Whereas Socrates defined the purpose of education as ‘to know thyself,’ students in keeping track of his checklist—college, grades, graduate school—may lose sight of who he really is. Nonetheless, there is more pressure to make the grades if he is to fulfill these career plans.”

Although maintaining that Davidson students “come in all stripes,” professor of English, Randy F. Nelson observed that these students “tend to be a little more nervous and high strung. They are clearly more worried about grades and about absorbing material, but then many express a clear interest in learning.”

Rhodes added, “The student is in a bind: he has to be grade conscious to stand a chance to follow out what he wants to do. I don’t like it but I can’t sit back and blame the student as competition increases for graduate and professional schools. Yet in a sense, it’s too bad that so much emphasis has to be put on grades.”

Locke White, Jr. also noted, “The employment prospects are simply not as good as they were. In this respect, the concern for grades appears quite plausible. In view of the outside world, I'd see it as miraculous if students weren’t more concerned.”

Yet, Rhodes expressed another disconcerting aspect: “An intense emphasis on grades tends to push students into taking elementary courses, except where they can’t get away from it in their major field. They would be perfectly capable but want to protect that average so that it won't get hurt.”

Shi reiterated, “I’m not sure that a student can still take advantage of what a Liberal Arts education really is: the ability to take courses for interest rather than a grade. But in that sense, Davidson is really part of the system in that we’re a training ground for other things.”

“What Frontis Johnston said, ‘That a Liberal Arts education should instill its graduates with the ability to do almost anything,’ doesn’t apply anymore,” continued Shi.

Dean of Students Will H. Terry pointed out, “Students are more career oriented, less graduate school oriented and more directed towards the business world which, I feel, is more realistic.”

Koller commented, “We’re going back to the '50s in the concern with career and job and not so much with issues. Now students talk about those who try and get them interested in issues as ‘stirring up trouble.’”

Postulating further, Professor of German, Hansford Epes stated, “Part of my judgment has been that the minority visible as being highly service oriented seems to be getting smaller. From the number of students that we have, there appears to me to be a very low level of social concern.”

“Again there are glaring exceptions,” said Epes, “Crop, the YMCA, several projects of the clubs and...Fraternities this concern and to their credit. But with issues, the trend is such that if a big one comes along, people will work diligently for a couple of weeks.” In responding to the question of student involvement, Terry stated, “It wanes and flows. This election we had the largest number run for the hearing committee. To me, that showed that people want to be involved, but they don’t feel they can afford the time.” She also commented, “I have been impressed with the energy and dedication of those students who are involved in service organizations such as the ‘Y’. The participation is sincere and genuinely concerned with outreach to those less fortunate, but I wonder if the numbers have dwindled in the past 10 years.” 

“Right now, whatever lack of interest there may be is a function of two things,” added Rhodes, “of the intense pressure for grades which students feel they have to make and the sense of quietism and internalized, soul-searching attitudes which make students not quite as outgoing as one would suspect.” In response to the complaints of pressure, Will Terry, four years ago, brought a man from Harvard to speak about this pressure. As Terry explained, “He maintained that he did find a good bit of pressure here but that an awful lot came from the students themselves—internalized pressure.” She concluded, “In a way, we as individuals have become prisoners to pressures that we as a society have created for ourselves.”

Grade Inflation: Do We Compare?
By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

Despite campus rumors which attribute to Davidson a lower grade point average than other schools and an exemption from the effects of grade inflation, a check with comparable schools tends to dispel these reports. Although the climb of grade averages has not been stopped since the flurry of coverage after the Michigan State report of 1974, it seems that the climb has slowed and in some cases stopped or reversed.

At Duke University, the assistant registrar explained, “We have experienced grade inflation as have most colleges and universities.” Although specific figures were not available, he noted that grades at Duke rose until three semesters ago when they reached a plateau. He also said that they experienced a slight decrease in the average last term, and that the average now is about a B.

At UNC-CH, Robert Cornwell of the records department said that the grade point average “is not used to any great extent” as an instrument in itself. However, he noted that a recent faculty committee made several suggestions in light of grade inflation. There was a redefinition of what “A” means, and a change in the policy shortening the period in which a full student could drop a course without penalty.

Williams College, which also felt grade inflation during the late 1960s to the early 1970s, has found that grades have generally “leveled off in the last two years.”

At Dartmouth, where 60 percent of the class of 1976 graduated with honors (summa, magna, or cum laude), steps have been taken to combat grade inflation. Notices concerning inflation have been sent to professors, and honors will be awarded on a percentage basis, working down to 35 percent by the class of 1979.

Vanderbilt has also continued to have slight increases in the average of all undergraduate grades. Although they are “watching it very closely,” they have not had any centralized efforts to counteract it, although possibly certain departments are working on it.

In the following graph are figures for grade point averages at six schools, including Davidson. As many of the schools which supplied the figures stressed, there are so many factors relative to the different schools that too literal a reading is unadvisable.

| Year | UNC-CH | Williams | Vanderbilt | Dartmouth | Davidson |
|------|--------|----------|------------|-----------|----------|
| 1973-74 | 2.689 | 3.0381 | 3.0234 | 3.0868 | 2.987 |
| 1974-75 | 2.722 | 3.065 | 3.0689 | 3.1006 | 1.7892 |
| 1975-76 | 2.742 | 3.08 | 3.060 | 3.107 | 1.8601 |
| 1976-77 | 2.738 | 3.10 | 3.060 | 3.107 | 1.8721 |