The Davidsonian October 21, 1977

NEES TIT Aer can hurt school

[Continued from page 9]

religion is concerned. “I would be much happier if one would simply inform the (prospective faculty member) of what the
history of the college is, what its basic purposes are, what its commitments are—and then to ask that person whether
he can live in harmony with these commitments.”

Prospective faculty members receive a packet of information before they arrive on campus for interviews. A copy of the constitution
is included in this packet, so every prospective will see the By-Law that states that Davidson welcomes Christians and non-Christians.
Will the enacting clause also be included in this packet of information? If not, who tells a non-Christian candidate that
the President will likely be very interested in his ‘religious faith and practice’? If a department invites a non-Christian for
interviews, will the chairman of the department have to take the candidate aside to say: ‘Look, I know the By-laws
say we welcome everyone, but there's this thing called the “enacting statement,” and since you're non-Christian, the President will probably
want to know...’ Clearly this situation hints of dishonesty and unprofessionalism, and doubtlessly it will lead to misunderstanding, misinterpretation, and
perhaps another controversy like last spring’s Linden affair.

Impact outside Davidson

Rice believes that word of the enacting statement will spread in the academic world, damaging Davidson’s reputation and hindering the
college’s ability to recruit highly qualified faculty members. ‘I can certainly see the difficulties put in the way of recruitment
of faculty by directors of graduate studies at universities from which we like to draw faculty. They may very well
discourage their graduate students from coming to Davidson.’

Why the enacting statement?

Why did the Trustees emasculate the By-Law with the enacting clause? Could it be that they fear a trend toward
secularization that threatens to spoil Davidson's unique character and enfeeble the strength of the Christian perspective at the college? Each
time the Trustees arrive on campus they witness a Davidson much changed since bygone days. They see a jean-clad, coeducational
student body drinking beer in the 900 Room, watching ‘The Clockwork Orange’ in Love Auditorium, enjoying unlimited visiting hours in
dormitories—it is indeed a strange world to them. Do they believe that these liberalizing influences have somehow eroded the Christian
perspective of Davidson?

“I would guess that Davidson is just as Christian now as it ever was,” submits Maydole.

Sailors hope to sweep match

By JEFF CLARK
Staff Writer

Sailing is a sport that is very accommodating to the Davidson student. It is a rather unique form of intercollegiate
competition since there are no mandatory practices. The sport is run mainly by students who spend as much time as
they think they can afford. It is not unusual for academics and other interests to take priority over sailing. Coach
Hallam Walker stated that many students turn out for the first few practices every year but the team is “quickly
reduced to a nucleus of about eight people.” This year's “nucleus” includes Captain David Love who is a senior, juniors
Alice White and Laura Bingaman, sophomores Jeff Harris, Ned Grier, and Greg Londerey, and freshman Mott Blair.

The fact that sailing is strictly a volunteer sport may be responsible for the team's poor start this season. The
sailing team placed fifth in the first of three “point” regattas to be held this fall in the Northern Division
of the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA). Other members of the division are Duke, UNC-CH, N.C. State, Univ. of
Virginia, Christopher Newport College, and Old Dominion, who was the winner of the first regatta which was held at Lake
Norman. The scores of the three “point” regattas will decide the top four teams in the division who will go
onto the SAISA.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES... CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARYchampionship. Although Davidson usually goes on to the finals, according to Walker, the team is having its "ups and downs"
and will have to improve in this weekend's regatta at UVa if it hopes to participate in post-season competition. The
regattas are standard yacht races which are run over a one-mile triangular course forcing the boats to sail at different
angles to the wind. The two-man crews attempt to outsail their opponents by utilizing the changing winds to the fullest.
Walker encourages all who have an interest in this exciting sport to come out to one of the practices, which
are held in the afternoons at Lake Norman.

"Just because people were required to go to chapel so many times a week, and just because people were forbidden
to drink beer on campus or just because people were required to wear a coat and tie to class—does that
mean that the college was any more Christian than it is now? Are these things really the essence of what
we mean by Christianity? These are more, I think, a reflection of social conditions than they are of Christian commitment,"
said Maydole.

Rice objects to the notion that hiring of non-Christians will lead to secularization. Rice charges that this fear is unwarranted.
"I find it very possible for a church-related college to have a pluralistic community within its teaching faculty and staff
and not have the pluralism threaten the basic Christian nature of the place. My own alma mater (Boston College) is
a Catholic college with a strong Jesuit tradition. Yet within that faculty are men and women who are not Catholic
who function as full members of that community and in fact enhance the overall effectiveness of the Jesuit mission by
their very presence."

Siege mentality

This enacting statement builds walls, towers, and battlements around Davidson’s Christian commitment. The Trustees must rescind this odious enacting statement
and dismiss for all time this siege mentality and invite the viewpoints of non-Christians. In Rice’s words: "It is important
to recognize that Christianity—or any belief—is strengthened by dialogue, discussion, and confrontation... It is a much healthier environment when beliefs
are discussed, analyzed, challenged, and reaffirmed."

Talking to ourselves

I too welcome dialogue, discussion, and confrontation of spiritual beliefs. And I too believed that Davidson championed those values. I
fully understand the Trustees’ desire to preserve Davidson as a strong advocate for the Christian perspective in the ongoing exchange
of spiritual dialogue. But if the college follows its present course, it may soon be talking only to itself.

Teams experience wild & woolly week

By KEVIN ROBBINS
Staff Writer

After a week's absence due to an outdated shameful sham, your Club Sports Spot is back on top spitting those
sports spots to you as before. A new Club Sport was launched last Saturday as the Water Polo Club dove
into competition against a strong, experienced Appalachian State team. Although the Apps floated away with an 11-4 win, Davidson was
no fish out of water as they splashed well in their first outing. With John Frederick and Dave Lennox at
the helm and an offense spearheaded by Mighty Mark Tommerdahl, the Liquid Clubbers should soon start sinking the opposition. The
addition of swim team captains Jonathan Washburn and Mike Knowles to the Club should help liquidate the same, if Knowles
would concentrate on his swimming instead of his creative writing. Cathy says you're all wet anyway, Mike.

The Football Club Cats slithered and slipped to a liquid loss also as snow and Western Carolina avalanched their guests
17-14. Life is nothing until you've tried to play a game, even football, in the snow on lousy Astroturf. Rain
is about all that Davidson can handle. A couple of tough breaks for Western Carolina led to scores that stood
up under the awful conditions. The Club Gridders hope to up their record next week against (get this) Baptist University
of America in Atlanta, a newly formed varsity team. Move over, Bulldogs.
