Vandalism could precipitate dramatic action
Union moves to correct abuses
By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

The Union Board Executive Committee proposed four solutions to the problems of alcoholic abuse, vandalism, and theft in the Union. Their specific concerns have been the vandalism in the 2nd floor restroom, the breaking of state laws by bringing alcoholic beverages outside the 900 Room and inside the Union, theft of phones, raiding of candy machines, breaking of a ping pong table, unofficial use of the elevator, smoking and drinking in Love Auditorium, and other incidences which point to abuses of Union privileges.

Close by midnight
First, they have proposed to change the hours beer will be sold in the 900 Room to 8:00—12:00 instead of until 1:00. The change of hours could go into effect at any time. The main reason for the change of hours proposal comes from consideration for the deskmen. "If beer is sold until 1:00," Bob Hill commented, "we can’t close the Union until at least 1:30, sometimes 2:00."

The second proposal is to hire a night building supervisor to be on duty from 4 pm until 1 am. William Brown, assistant director of the Union, compares the office to a community center building supervisor. C. Shaw Smith, Director of the Union, hopes the supervisor will enforce the 900 Room drinks rules and will stop the public drunkenness. He feels that the strict enforcement of the rules will decrease the amount of vandalism. "The violation of the rules puts everyone in jeopardy," Shaw comments. The supervisor, however, would cost the Union $45 a day. They are working on getting the funds now. It was proposed the Union take some of the funds out of programming.

Patrolling supervisor
The supervisor’s job would be to patrol the Union. He could be paged at any time when needed. If he finds someone abusing their privileges, he could first bar them from the building for an extended period of time. If he finds the violator in the Union during that time, he would, in cooperation with the Dean’s office, charge them. If prosecuted by the Dean’s office, the violator could be charged up to $50.

One proposal the U.B.E.C. turned down was to close the Union or parts of the Union temporarily. Smith comments, "We have to consider those proposals. In the interim, we want to put students on the alert." Smith recognizes his actions seem drastic but he says, "I’m tired of dealing with children, of begging people to be decent. Begging hasn’t worked."

As to Spring Frolics weekend, U.B.E.C. decided to dispense beer at the Saturday afternoon concert. The final decision on their recommendation is left to the Council on Campus and Religious Life who will meet Thursday.

Cartmill initiates construction
By MARSHALL WADDELL and DENNIS McLAWHORN
Sports Editors

The Council on Campus and Religious Life met recently with Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill to discuss the proposed three-hole golf course. One hole has already been started, but as yet no funds have been appropriated for its completion. Construction of the first hole was initiated in order to solve several problems: Cartmill explained, "We had two small fields which had to be replaced. Softball players were constantly hitting balls into the firs. We also had a great deal of fill dirt and no place to put it." Cartmill solved the problem by removing a row of hedge trees and distributing the dirt between the two fields. This resulted in a four-fold increase in usable field space.

If completed, this area will provide the golf team with a practice hole. The team has been practicing at the Charlotte Country Club and other places.

$60,000 total cost
Cartmill reported that the cost of finishing the first hole and creating two additional holes would be upwards of $60,000. Cartmill said that the cost of maintaining this three-hole complex could run as high as $10,000 a year. This maintenance cost would include one employee to look after the course. Cartmill did not rule out the possibility of using present grounds personnel, who are employed on a year-round basis, to tend the course.

At present, the first hole stands uncompleted and will remain so until funds are allocated for it. Dean of Students Will Terry explained the Council’s action in the matter. "The council communicated..."with the President our concerns about the golf course in light of priorities established by the Goals Committee. "He indicated that he’ll respond to us about it," Terry said.

FOCUS Lack of
By ANNE WICKER
Staff Writer

Beginning in 1976 the hall counselors at Davidson College no longer received the previous salary of $100 a term. Many of this year’s hall counselor staff have criticized the removal of pay. “It involves much more than simple room depreciation (broken furniture, soiled rugs) and use of your car,” observed one hall counselor. "I think Dr. Spencer is not fully aware March 31. If beer is dispensed concert committee will patrol to curb public drunkenness. Hill adds, "We will also make sure no one brings anything beside themselves and perhaps a frisbee into the stadium. We do not want pitchers or glasses."

Besides the drinking problem, U.B.E.C. addressed itself to the presence of children inside the Union, particularly in the game room and snack bar. After much debate, they decided to allow no children into the Union unless accompanied by a designated student. U.B.E.C. is prepared to use name tags for this purpose.

ID tags for children
The tags would be given to those children in the Step Tutoring program and to any others who have a designated student with them. Faculty children would be considered individually by Smith and given a name tag if approved. William Brown feels the “kid problem” will be solved enough to recognize anyone who might disturb the Union or the students. Smith has solicited the support of the U.B.E.C. members to enforce the rules. He told them, "I don’t think many of us have been willing to stick our necks out. I need your support." He went on to say, "The 900 Room works when students want it to work."

Drunk vs. disorderly
U.B.E.C. seemed willing to take on the responsibility, especially about drinking abuses. John Cravet said, "If you get drunk, that’s your business. If you get disorderly, that’s our business." Smith and U.B.E.C. expressed the desire to avoid drastic measures if possible. As Smith says, "The main thing we need to do is to get the attention of the campus."

Extended Studies unchanged
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has not completed their study of Davidson’s academic program because it has not met in over a month. EPC Chairman, Academic Vice-President Frontis W. Johnston indicated to The Davidsonian in January that the study would be submitted to the faculty for a vote in either February or March. "The committee is waiting for a report that I am supposed to write a rough draft for," said Johnston. He has not completed the report because he has been busy with admissions, exams, and "I am basically lazy," he said.

The study of Davidson academics is expected to include an analysis of the independent studies program and may recommend changes in that program. But because the report of the EPC has yet to appear, Extended Studies Chairman Hansford Epes has already submitted his plans for the Extended Studies next year. "I have no reason to believe Extended Studies I and II will change at all (next year)," said Epes. The EPC report will probably be too late to alter Extended Studies next year. Said Johnston, "I think nothing will be done about it (Extended Studies) at all, I think it is too late to do anything about it for next year." "I’m glad we'll have more time to think about Extended Studies," Epes said.

pay sparks criticism of the tremendous influence the hall counselors have on the freshmen. The hall counselor is usually a responsible person with positive attitudes and they transmit these attitudes to the freshmen. The hall counselor is largely responsible for helping the freshman to adjust. Paying the hall counselors would be the merest token of appreciation.” Another hall counselor added, "We don’t do our jobs to get paid but they seem to take advantage of the fact we don’t do it for the money." "They play up the fact that it’s an honor and play down the fact that it is a job," said one student. Several of the hall counselors contacted by The Davidsonian had individual situations which further complicate the matter. "I work eleven hours per week work study," said one hall counselor. "It [see WORK, page 9]