April 15, 1977

The Davidsonian

Opinion

By Charles and Amelia Dockery
Faculty Guest Columnists

Shortly, our family will disappear from your midst to take up residence in Montpellier, France, where we shall be called
upon to minister to the academic and personal needs of those students participating in Davidson’s Junior Year Abroad program. On
the eve of our departure, we thought it appropriate to use the forum provided by this column to share with
faculty and students alike our views on foreign study.

My wife and I have spent fifteen years between us as students in foreign countries, one of these in a
JYA program similar to Davidson’s. It is on the basis of our personal experience, our understanding of the place of
JYA in the overall curriculum, and our appreciation of the College's stated commitment to foreign study that we offer the
following remarks.

We are of course preoccupied with the question of what factors contribute to and ultimately determine the benefits to be
derived from a foreign-study experience. We do not feel that a student who sees in JYA a chance to “take
a year off” or to visit a country for its “women and wine” will gain much from the experience in
terms of personal or intellectual growth. Such a person is looking for a touristic experience and tourism is by nature
a matter of appearances, impressions, and snap judgments rather than realities, understanding, and insightful comparisons. The condition of the tourist
is a passive one. He remains marginal and literally “passes through.”

It is important to think of JYA as an opportunity to continue whatever one came to a liberal arts college
to do in the first place. The difference is, of course, that the pursuit continues elsewhere. Being “elsewhere” while remaining
a Davidson student can produce positive or negative results.

It’s time to fight crime

Four years ago this campus saw very little vandalism. Today it is so common many of us take it as
a natural phenomenon. What’s happened? A degeneration of the Honor Code is what has happened. The Honor Code means turning
violators in as well as not violating. If students do not turn in violators, they are just as guilty of
the vandalism as the vandals themselves. Or has the whole campus lost respect for private property? It is evident that
a handful of students no longer respect private property. Since they are tolerated by the rest of the campus, maybe
the lack of respect is all-pervasive.

Mature human beings not only respect each other’s private property but they protect it as well. Davidson, Honor Code or
no Honor Code, people are tearing up your buildings. The Honor Code is merely a formally-written statement about how mature
human beings are expected to act. The degeneration of that code indicates a decrease in the maturity and responsibility level
of the student body. Davidson, as human beings we do not have to put up with this.

Grover Meetze, Jr., does not wish and will not turn Davidson into a police state. Instead, he wants students to
take the problem of vandalism into their own hands and protect their own rights. There are several measures we can
take. We can find out who is responsible for the damages and turn them in. Vandals in “the real world”
are punished; there is no reason they should be protected at Davidson. We could promote discussion among ourselves about the
problem. This seems a passive means to deal with vandalism, but all the talk about the Union’s rules on drinking
preceding Spring Frolics helped prevent any incident which might have occurred otherwise. We can report or try to stop any
potential vandalism: someone about to break a window, knock out a lightbulb, punch out a wall.

Vandalism is a snowballing tragedy. Once it starts it encourages more to occur. Stopping vandalism will also snowball. Once it
starts we might be able to restore Davidson to an institution concerned with the protection of and respect for its
property and its rights.

- The Davidsonian

Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell
Susan Colan
Amanda Hall
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis

Editor
Executive Editor
News Editors
Features Editor
Editorial Page Editors
Sports Editors
Production Manager
Managing Editor
Photography Editors
Advertising Editors

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Results depend upon several factors. The student who
goes abroad with a carefully thought-out plan of study and a good command of the language of the foreign country
will have prepared himself to derive much from his stay. The advanced planning provides purpose and will serve as an
antidote to attacks of existential doubt. Proficiency in the language will make possible the exchange of ideas and the sharing
of feelings, without which a sense of "belonging" will never develop. The basis of all genuine human communication is shared
experience. When we share, we contribute. When we contribute, we feel less alienated, less marginal.

The personal qualities of respect for self and for others are just as important in determining the nature of human
relationships in the foreign country as they are in one’s own country. Self-awareness, assertiveness, and a good dose of humility
will go just as far there as here in helping one to deal with problems of adjustment. The student whose
choice to go to JYA is motivated by the desire to solve serious personal problems should be aware that the
unpredictability of life in a foreign country and the constant demands to adapt to a different culture tend to magnify
rather than diminish such problems.

The JYA experience is an invaluable one in that it allows the student to step outside his own culture and
view it with detachment. One is placed in a situation in which basic assumptions about life and human behavior are
not shared by all. Such an experience allows one to test one’s own ideas and beliefs against others just as
firmly held. It is this almost daily confrontation of values that makes the foreign experience unique and totally consistent with
the aims of a liberal arts education.

CROP fights starvation

To the Editor:

In a community such as ours which professes to be Christian, we need to look more closely at our attitudes
toward stewardship. If we value every human being as precious in the sight of God, why don’t we act like
it? The standard attitude is contempt for those obviously lazier and less intelligent than Americans. Let them die out; it’s
a process of evolution. We see those less fortunate than ourselves as inferior creatures rather than as human beings with
the same needs we have, who experience pain, both physical and emotional. We conveniently forget that their misfortune has come
from erratic changes in the world’s weather patterns coupled with exploitation by developed nations such as ours.

We need raw materials to manufacture our luxurious home furnishings, so we tell Latin Americans that we will pay them
mucho money if they’ll raise certain types of hemp on their land, previously devoted to subsistence farming. We neglect to
mention that after a couple of years the land will be so depleted that nothing will grow. Another frequent rationalization
is that aid to famine areas propagates famine since more people live and have children. They'll just have to help
themselves, we say. Have you ever tried heavy manual labor when you're weak from days without food? People cannot better
themselves without a break in the destructive spiral of famine. If we break in with food for work, they can
dig the wells and ditches they need. If we break in with education in new farming methods adapted to the
land type (we have the knowledge ready to be used), they can produce enough food for themselves and to spare.
And it is the hungry, not the well-fed, who have the most children.

Short life expectancy and high infant mortality induce people to have many children so that at least someone in the
family may survive; they try to improve the odds. Of course, on a large scale, this type of behavior accelerates
starvation. It is up to us who have more than our share of the world’s resources to break into the
vicious cycle of hunger and stop it. Figures indicate we have the means; we just need the initiative. It is
up to people at places like Davidson, supposedly concerned about stewardship, to take that initiative.

On April 19, CROP is sponsoring a symposium on world hunger-related issues such as agricultural, ethical, and economical problems. On
the eleventh, Tony Snow and Professor Stell (of the Philosophy department) will have a public debate on some of these
issues. On the eighteenth, we will be showing a film on population problems. Attend some of these presentations and educate
yourself. On the twenty-first, World Food Day, we'll be fasting. Support the work of Church World Service in agricultural development,
family planning, and public health with your contributions.

Joyce Stahmann '77
Davidson
