October 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

By GEORGE STROBEL
Staff Writer

Davidson's football team, having crushed Guilford 31-0 last week, is gearing themselves for a tough game against Hampden-Sydney this Saturday.

This was the second consecutive victory for the Cats. However, the competition toughens considerably for the remaining four games. Hampden-Sydney,
this Saturday's opponents, are ranked nationally in NCAA Division III. But the Wildcats have been working hard from the start
of the season and think that they will win Saturday. In the last two weeks, the Wildcat defense has given
up only seven points. The defense this year has been anchored by a young and aggressive defensive line. The coaching
staff has been pleased by the improvement shown by the defensive secondary in the last two weeks. If Davidson is
to fare well in the last four games of the season, the secondary must play well.

The key to the offense this year has been the steady blocking of a veteran offensive line, making the job
a lot easier for the nimble running of Pete Legler and Page Walley.

The most improved part of the Wildcat game over last year is the kicking game. Davidson had a 63-yard punt
last week from sophomore Steve Risley. Risley attributed his punting success to the coaching he's received from his hallmates this
year.

The rest of Davidson's schedule includes VMI and Lehigh away and Delaware at home in two weeks.

With a win this week, Davidson's football team can ensure at least a .500 record for the season. Game time
this Saturday is 1:30 pm.

Pinckney paces Cat runners

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

Led by senior Coty Pinckney's near record-setting pace, the Davidson cross-country team ran away from Hampden-Sydney and host Lynchburg College
on Saturday, October 15.

In the three-way meet, Davidson took seven of the top ten places and bolstered its record to 3-1.

Pinckney’s time of 26:50 on Lynchburg’s arduous five-mile course missed breaking the old record by a scant 4/5 of a
second. His performance becomes even more remarkable when one considers the extraordinary navigational difficulties encountered on a course which features
a wide variety of roots and rocks, several steep hills, numerous sharp turns, and a treacherously narrow nature trail.

Coach Norm Koller was additionally encouraged by the sixth-place performance of junior captain Doug Horn, who is undergoing a painful
bout with interdigital neuroma in his right foot.

Also scoring for the Wildcats were John Davis, second, George Strobel, fourth, Bart Landess, seventh, Jeff Morrow, eighth, and Tom
Scott, tenth.

The harriers traveled to Charleston, South Carolina, the following week, but did not fare so well.

Southern Conference foes Furman, Appalachian State, and The Citadel defeated Davidson, whose sole victory was over UT-Chattanooga, a newcomer to
the conference.

Pinckney had another superb day and finished sixth. His time of 25:21 on the swift Citadel course is a new
school record for five miles.

Sophomore Jeff Morrow was another bright spot. A strong final two miles enabled him to finish 24th with a personal
best time of 27:02.

The rest of the team lent little support to the effort, however, as many of the younger runners had mediocre
races.

John Davis was 22nd, Bart Landess 33rd, George Strobel 36th, Tom Scott 39th, and Vasili Carperos 41st.

The Wildcats’ next race will be the North Carolina State Championship meet on October 22, at Raleigh.

“Red Cross is an organization of physical action, of instantaneous action; it cannot await the ordinary deliberation of organized bodies
if it would be of use to suffering humanity...”

Clara Barton,
Red Cross founder

SCAMPERING FOR a long gainer, sophomore halfback Craig Pyles gets a few more of his yards. Pyles also scored a
touchdown in his best game to date.

Football [4-2]
Davidson 49, Randolph-Macon 7
Davidson 31, Guilford 0

Soccer [0-9]
William & Mary 6, Davidson 0
Duke 8, Davidson 0
South Carolina 2, Davidson 1
Citadel 4, Davidson 0

Fall Golf
Third (15 teams) in Etowah Valley Inv.

Field Hockey [Women] [3-5]
Coker 5, Davidson 2
Davidson 8, Clemson 0
East Carolina 5, Davidson 2
Winthrop 2, Davidson 0
Duke 2, Davidson 1

Cross Country [6-5]
Furman 16, Davidson 47
Appalachian 19, Davidson 44
The Citadel 22, Davidson 37
Davidson 23, UT-Chattanooga 32
Davidson 20, Georgia State 39
Wake Forest 17, Davidson 46
Davidson 19, J.C. Smith 44

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
