October 28, 1977
By NANCY McNAIR
Features Editor

David Bunn is an intruder. Camera ready, he says, “I never set out to go somewhere to photograph, I photograph
when I go somewhere.” And he goes...to Ghana, India, the “Holy Land,” New York City; stopping time with his “found
moments.” A few of his photographic findings will be on display in the Union Gallery through Nov. 19. His photograph
of a painted wall in Madras, India, which has peeled to frame the faces of two lovers, rivals the remains
of any Quattrocento a secco work. The absurdity of an oxcart traversing the road before the Agra, India Holiday Inn
startles the viewer as it obviously did him. “The way the world presents itself constantly surprises me.”

The same benign, self-assured air as that of his sleepy Indian deity appears in his portrait of the Southern aristocrat
from Williamston, N.C. The parallels manifest themselves repeatedly among his works. In one photograph, the harsh lines of a church
steeple align themselves in thrust with a missile; meanwhile, the wide-angle lens distorts their theoretical trajectories into the intersecting bows
of an arc. Yes, David Bunn is an intruder. He breaks in upon the harmonious, everything-in-its-place, travelogue scenes and alters
them into the unexpected. Leave him a Christmas Eve slice of fruit cake and a mug of steaming cocoa. This
intruder should be a guest.

By NANCY McNAIR
Features Editor

The Davidson College Union Board is bringing several new recording artists to Love Auditorium Tuesday night. The artists are the
members of the Piedmont Chamber Orchestra, and they have recently made the first recording ever of 14 small Haydn Symphonic
Works in Winston-Salem. Comprised of faculty members of the North Carolina School of the Arts, they have played from Detroit
through Miami and at the opening of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.

Artist series opens

The first of four Artist Series productions sponsored by the Union Board, tickets are free to Davidson students. It will
start a year of varied performances. Lotte Goslar’s Pantomime Circus will follow in December, with performances by the Moscow Chorale
and Ossie Davis and Ruby Dee slated for February and March. Olivia Ware, chairperson of the Artist Series Committee, emphasized
the fact that the performances do offer something for everyone. Tickets are available with IDs at the ticket window in
the Union.

By CATHY ANSCHELES
Staff Writer

The most notorious of prisoner-of-war stockades often treated their inmates better than many children are being treated in America today.
That was the message visiting lecturer Ken Wooden brought on campus this Tuesday when he said, “Even POW camps have
basic regulations. We’d be happy if they (American juvenile centers) would follow those.” Wooden spoke of documented instances in which
children were kept in solitary confinement, gassed in 8 x 10 rooms, forced to take untested birth control pills, and
injected with urine.

Author of Weeping in the Playtime of Others and a consultant to the popular CBS show “Sixty Minutes” on child
abuse, Wooden charged that the main problem is that three very different types of youthful offenders are receiving the same
treatment. Non-violent offenders are treated just like dangerous delinquents. Status offenders also receive the same deal, even though the violent
group makes up less than ten percent, said Wooden. The so-called “Status Offender” is the most unjustly treated, often being
imprisoned for running away from home, truancy, and stubbornness. The average child is 14 years old, reads poorly, and is
from an unstable family low on the socio-economic ladder, according to Wooden.

Juvenile Rehabilitation Centers reinforce and encourage criminal activity in spite of their real purpose, he explained. Eight out of ten
youths in such centers will return to jail. “It becomes a macho thing, to see who commits the heavier crime,”
said Wooden.

Child Pornography was the topic of the evening 900 Room lecture. Wooden concentrated on clearing up mistaken views of “Kiddie
Porn.” Most of the exploitation occurs between men and young boys. Parents are very rarely involved in this “brown-bag” industry.
Those convicted are rarely strangers, but trusted friends or relatives, Wooden explained. Usually, they have past criminal records. Wooden told
stories of how Boy Scouts and Boys Town leaders have taken advantage of children during vulnerable times.After the first encounter,
youths are open to blackmail and locked into Kiddie Porn. Wooden even related how a Chicago newsletter, "Hermes," encourages the
timid individual to get involved with child pornography by becoming more active in Boy Scouts and other similar groups. He
identifies "the politics of politics" and legal loopholes as means by which the directors of these "homes" escape. Wooden said
that he has been told many times that "it is not glamorous enough to prosecute child care abusers." He accused
Congressmen of "getting their pound of media flesh" through holding three separate hearings on the child abuse problem and then
promptly forgetting the whole issue. The National Coalition for Children's Justice is taking numerous steps, according to Wooden, to alert
the public and get action. The group is now asking Congress to pass a bill allowing "the U.S. Justice Department
to investigate conditions affecting senior citizens and child care." Work on a national bill of rights for children has also
begun, he said. Wooden suggested that individuals wanting to ease the child abuse problem should volunteer for work in the
YMCA, Step-tutor, Big-Brother and Sister Programs, and other related organizations. But the best way to stop child abuse, he said,
is closer to home. Be better parents.

Foreign meals seek authenticity
By NANCY MCNAIR
Features Editor

A dim room filled with Egyptian music, a belly dancer cavorting about, tables laden with lamb shish kebab, and pita
bread with tahina... A Cairo restaurant? No, someplace a little closer to home. Try the 900 Room for the Union
Minorities Committee’s second international dinner to be offered Saturday, October 29. Last year’s ethnic dinners were so successful that the
Minorities Committee has decided to continue them. The Egyptian dinner plans typify the concern for authenticity. "We want to get
away from Americanized or commercialized versions of a country’s food and culture," said International Dinners Chairman, Emilie Bryan. For example,
Youssef Abagui and Omaima Hatem, Egyptian International Students, were consulted in planning the Egyptian feast. They planned authentic cuisine: shish
kebabs with pilaf, foul (a bean dish), pita bread with tahina (sesame dip), and baklava. Interspersed with dancing and music
are folk stories as well. "Our approach is an honest and open one--we want to have fun, learn a little,
and eat a lot," said Bryan. Omaima noted, however, that to accommodate the customs of some rural Egyptian communities, the
women must eat separately after waiting on the men. Both Bryan and Hatem praised Ron Scott of ARA Slater for
his efforts to achieve authenticity. "Ron Scott does a beautiful job of following our recipes. He does all we ask
and always goes a step further with his imaginative flair." With waiting lists for both dinners held this year, the
cultural events promise to perpetuate themselves. Bryan stated, "The main thing is an evening in which community, faculty, and students
can join in a pleasant social and cultural event."

Art Department gets shoes on straight at last
By ESTHER BRUCE
Staff Writer

After two years of standing idle, the art department’s new silk-screen machine, the "New Artform" printer, can now be put
to use. Davidson bought this machine two years ago because of its many advantages over their old one. It is
designed to print several colors at once, greatly simplifying the overall process. Unfortunately, the operation of the machine itself was
not so simple. The faculty of the art department could not operate the machine, so they asked Mr. Robert R.
Malone, a silk-screen expert, to explain the process to them. A long-distance attempt failed, however, to solve the problem. No
further attempt was made because, Dr. Houchens explains, "I really didn’t have time." Because of the diversity of the courses
he teaches, he could not focus his attention on this problem immediately. This year, a student expressed a desire to
do an independent research project using this "sophisticated piece of equipment." The main purpose of the trip was for Mr.
Malone to teach the art faculty how to operate the machine, so that they could in turn teach students. To
accomplish this, he actually went through the process of making some silk-screen prints. The process was long and intricate, spanning
several hours. It was not set up for a particular class.
