C Ip taeinoi eer — St oe

Speaker defends abrasive manner

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

When syndicated columnist Sydney Harris spoke at Davidson a few years back, he made some students think and others mad. That’s why he’s coming back.

“I enjoyed the students very much. I gave three talks in two days and had two or three bull sessions. The students were very responsive,” said the man whose unpretentious columns appear daily in several hundred American and foreign newspapers.

Contacted at his Chicago office by telephone, Harris explained that he does not “like to stand up in an auditorium, talk awhile, take a check and say goodbye. I enjoy arguing very much. I want students to dig into what I say.”

Davidson students evidently pass Harris’s test for argumentation, pass it well enough to have made a strong impression. When he found out that other business would be bringing him into the area, Harris telephoned College News Director Buck Lawrimore and asked if he could pay another visit.

The columnist will arrive on campus Sunday night and will stay until Tuesday morning. On Monday, he plans to lead several discussions with small groups and deliver two public talks.

At 10:00 am, Harris will discuss “The First 200 Years—What America Has and Hasn’t Learned” in the Chambers Art Gallery. During the Bicentennial year, “we didn’t learn the purpose of forming the American union. There was not enough serious examination of what it was all about. The whole thing was wrapped up in the superficial,” he explained.

Although Harris admitted that the speech was actually written in 1976, he adamantly maintains that the material “is not dated.”

“We're starting our third century now and we need to examine these things. To say that Bicentennial topics are out of date is like saying why talk about the message of Christ two weeks after Christmas,” according to Harris.

At 8:00 pm, he will talk about “The Search for Values in the Affluent Society” in the 900 Room.

“We've begun to recognize that the emphasis that has been placed on material values may have been a mistake. The search for quantity may have gotten in the way of quality. The quest for material values may have hampered us,” said Harris.

He was quick to admit that affluence is less than a fresh and innovative topic. He said he was not even trying to be innovative. Harris wants to provide a “fresh perspective to an old problem.”

“I never give a lecture without a question and answer session afterwards. People fire at me and I fire at them. If you’re not abrasive, I’m afraid that what you say goes in one ear and out the other,” said Harris.

“If you’re open-minded, an argument can change your mind,” he said. Harris cited as an example: “I myself have modified a number of things in my talks based on feedback from the students.”

He defended his abrasive style: “If I’m arguing with somebody, maybe I don’t agree with him and he’s not very pleasant, but maybe there’s some truth in what he said.”

COLLEGE STEP tutors got together with their kids last Monday for an afternoon of pumpkin carving and Halloween fun. [Steve Small]

FLYING HOME? The SGA is offering rides to the airport during the exam period, Nov. 15-19, for $2. Rides will also be offered for those needing transportation back to school after break. For information, contact Lynn.L404, -5120 | Book Review

War still tastes like a bitter pill

By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

A Rumor of War
Philip Caputo
Holt, Rinehart and Winston
New York, 1977

Vietnam, like the closely associated Nixon era, has been suppressed by the public consciousness. But the specter still flickers in the shadows, frightening us as the unconscious fears of childhood did when we were young. Exorcism seems a long way off, but we have not even examined the vision in the comfort of full illumination, and so, unable to identify what is out there haunting us, our nation remains unnerved by an intangible, all the more frightening when we catch a fleeting sight of it over our shoulder.

Catching a specter is not an easy thing, and the signs of its existence—the hollow, wasted look of young, jobless veterans killing time in city parks—are one of the few concrete examples of Vietnam’s continuing life after public death. To a large extent, Philip Caputo’s book, A Rumor of War, is a chasing of ghosts, finding them reflected more in the faces of the men he knew than in any corporeal sense.

Like many young men, Caputo signed to serve from a mixture of patriotic idealism and a need to escape the deadening complacency of suburban life—“Having known nothing but security, comfort, and peace, I hungered for danger, challenges, and violence.” He stumbled on his means by chance and enlisted as a Marine officer when the recruiters came to his commuter college. Leading men to battle does seem a bit more romantic than fighting the crowds for a seat on the subway.

Briefly, Caputo discusses his training and the pride and self-respect that are a by-product of Marine-style training and indoctrination, but he does not go deeply into his personal reactions to precise events occurring at that point, except to observe he was eager to stop the playing and get on with the business of soldiering. His first command was a rifle company in Okinawa that also wanted to get on with it—all except for the veteran platoon sergeant, who knew better.

Soon after learning the realities of the system, that people really do come if forms are filled out in black ink, as the system dictates, he and his unit are transferred to Vietnam, amongst the first combat troops brought there in innocent 1965. Slowly the innocence fades and is chipped away by fear, death, an inhospitable environment, and amazing psychological incongruities. Why are Vietnamese who stand citizens and those who run Viet Cong? Because that is what orders dictate.

This section Caputo handles masterfully, relying primarily on straightforward journalistic recounting of life as it was, breaking in occasionally with a retrospective or editorial comment. The facts tell the story in a slow-building way, and each small incident adds to the dehumanization of those involved in a way that no fictional treatment possibly could accomplish. The demands of art can intrude on a complete understanding of something that occurs in a complex, yet incremental fashion. What Caputo shows is that rarely in war are there true heroes or true villains, only men under incredible strain; men who react, rather than think, choosing to survive more often than to die, no matter how that survival is achieved.

Like the fictional Lt. Henry of 40 years ago, Lt. Caputo learns to...

(See VIETNAM, page 32)