The Ereeenen UNION DIRECTOR C. SHAW SMITH advises the Union Board about policy but does not program himself.

Opinion By AMANDA HALL Managing Editor

The Davidson College Union seldom acts to meet student needs and so provides little social release for the students. Instead
of providing creative entertainment through which the students can vent their frustrations and energy, the Union is stuck in a
rut of beer and half-rate country rock bands or discos. Although planning the big weekends is by no means the
Union’s function, both Midwinters and Spring Frolics 1977 provide excellent examples of this negative, destructive programming.

Both weekends revolved around the 900 Room, country rock bands, and beer. Granted, Spring Frolics was held inside because of
weather conditions, but even held on the football field, the program had nothing new or exciting to offer the students.
Instead, the weekends seemed to be an excuse for audience-wide drunkenness. This negative programming (Hunter Jennings)

Opinion: Is the College Union for students? By JEFF MORROW Guest Columnist

The “union” suggests either the bringing together of two or more things, or the resulting state. Webster’s New World Dictionary
defines the word as “an act or instance of uniting two or more things into one; a state of being
so united.” Is the College Union so “united”? Is this supposedly volunteer organization really serving the students?

The students who make up the coordinating bureaucracy of the Union often seem to forget that they are not appointed
to do a job, but rather it is in their self-interest for learning the job that they became elected. There
is nothing wrong with desire and self-interest, but it should be recognized as such so as not to obstruct the
ideal actions and goals of a Union. One of the most disheartening things is how hard it is for a
student to break into this bureaucracy.

There are many funds (funds meaning here that it came from either our mother’s pockets or scholarships) that the Union
misuses. The students who are in the bureaucracy have a duty to respect the desire of the student body as
to how these funds are used. An example: in the fall of 1976, the two vice presidents’ discretionary funds of
the Union (funds totaling $1500) were given to help pay for the big TV screen in the Union. To my
knowledge, the students were not contacted or asked if they wanted their money used this way.

Another example: the student project committee, who can only give out money to a student with the approval of the
entire committee including two faculty members, dealt out some $500 without the faculty members knowing anything about it. A third
and final example is the abuse of the so-called “Business lunches.” When a performer is contracted here for a show,
it is written in his contract that he will be fed. Josh White was fed a breakfast after his performance
this past fall with C. Shaw Smith, William Brown, and three people who worked on the committee. However, six additional
unauthorized Union people showed up for the meal and nobody reprimanded them. Even though a small bit of money was
misused in this one instance, the implications it suggests are devastating.

What’s so terribly frustrating about this whole mess is that all this mishandling of money is the student body’s fault.
So what’s the use of even mentioning all...this when most students could care less about how their scholarship money or
parental money is being used? Fills most weekends on campus (if the Union schedules social events besides movies at all).
The students are bored and are forced to leave the campus to find the release they need. So what happens
to those without transportation? The Union fails to meet students’ needs. The Union Board purchased a large TV for programming
uses. What is more destructive to creativity and thought than television? All this pertains to the social half of Union
programming, the only events in which the students seem interested. The Union provides top-rate cultural events, like Alvin Ailey II
dance troupe, visiting speakers, and more. The students do not attend these events. So where else can they receive such
quality entertainment for pennies? Instead, they either attend the same type of social events at PUTGHERS BAR & GRILL SPECIAL
FROM LAY SHALES BONA PRETELS PICKLED EGGS. STUDENTS SPEND TIME at this bar during most Union events.

By MICHAEL JONES
Staff Writer

The Union Board Executive Committee (UBEC), made up of the Union Board officers and members of the Union staff, works
as the starting point of Union Board policy formation.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street

In addition, it handles business that does not involve the Board per se but is more concerned with Union operation
in general. This is the committee to serve if one wants to find out something about Union policy or if
a change in policy is desired. In talking with Billy Hutchings, Union Board President, Olivia Ware, Vice-President for Co-Curricular Activities,
and William Brown, Assistant Director of Union Programming, one finds that the decisions of the UBEC are geared to the
students of Davidson. Their goals and objectives are to make the Union a place to provide an outlet for student
creativity and expression, to offer special opportunities for students through other students, and to make the Union the extracurricular center,
apart from athletics, on the campus. Probably the biggest task and problem facing the UBEC is trying to communicate to
the students that the Union is what they themselves make it. The problem is not one of apathy as much
as it is the students not fully understanding how they can use the Union to make it what they want
it to be. The UBEC tries to encourage students to use, to participate in, and to bring forward ideas for
Union programming but Brown acknowledges that direct participation in programming is not for everyone because of the change in outlook
that one gets from being in the background of a program. The problem is that there is a hesitancy among
students to get involved in any of the 18 Union Board Committees because it is not understood that the committees
are open to anyone who wants to participate and that committee work takes up as much time as the student
wants to put into it. The important thing about committee work, Brown says, is that the students who participate do
the work because it is something they want to do and not something they have to do.
