March 11, 1977

HIS FINAL SEASON concluded, Marvin Lively relaxes and looks back on his years as a mainstay of the basketball program. (Irv Wilson)

Sports Happenings

Saturday, March 12, 1977

1 p.m. Baseball: William & Mary at Davidson
1 p.m. Tennis: Rochester at Davidson
1 p.m. Track: Washington & Lee at Davidson

Sunday, March 13, 1977

1 p.m. Tennis: Virginia at Davidson
2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: S.C. at Davidson

Monday, March 14, 1977

Lively reflects on career, team

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

Starter and senior co-captain Marvin Lively, virtually the last player recruited during Davidson’s days of basketball prominence, was recently asked to reflect upon his past four years of ups and downs as a Davidson basketball player.

Lively was recruited after a standout career at Richmond’s George Wythe High School, where he was an all-city selection. He lived up to that reputation his freshman year on the junior varsity, as he led the team in rebounding and assists and was second on the team in scoring.

Injured early in the season, he then suffered through a dismal sophomore year and accumulated little playing time.

This season Marvin started every game and was one of the team’s leading scorers and rebounders.

Commenting on this season, Lively said, “For the first time since I’ve been here, basketball was fun. The team was pretty close, and there were never any grumblings.”

While few would argue over the overall poor quality of play in past seasons, Lively feels that some great improvements have been made and that Davidson basketball will again reach national prominence.

First, Lively feels there are “better people” in the program. “When I first came here, there were cliques on the team. It was hard to get along with everyone.”

In addition, the coaching attitudes are completely different. “Coach Pritchett’s only concerns are for the program and the players. He’s always helped us maintain our confidence and poise.”

As far as the future of Davidson basketball and recruiting are concerned, Marvin stated, “None of us never knew how bad the recruiting program was until Coach Pritchett started. We’d hardly ever had anyone visit in the fall, and never had any players signed before the season was over.”

For these reasons, Lively feels that the dark days of Davidson basketball are over, and that things will improve considerably over the next couple of years.

His future career plans are undecided at the present time. “I’d like to play for a couple more years, but I’ve got to think about the future.”

That’s not a bad idea for Davidson fans, either.

3 p.m. Baseball: at Lenoir Rhyne
2 p.m. Tennis: Westchester State at Davidson
3 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Converse at Davidson

Tuesday, March 15, 1977

3 p.m. Baseball: St. Andrews at Davidson
2 p.m. Tennis: George Wash. Univ. at Davidson
2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: UNC-Charlotte at Davidson

Thursday, March 17, 1977

3 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Salem at Davidson

Outside the Lines

We want your poetry, prose, prints, paintings, etc. See Amanda in the Union Office.

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE

Available in Charlotte starting April 12, 1977, 7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O. Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253

Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 p.m.
Monday — Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary