By FRANK BLISS
Professor of English

People often ask me about the relationships between an artist’s intentions and the work of art he or she makes.
I know the questions are important and that they are asked out of efforts to comprehend a situation that seems
mysterious. I think that it may be most important to understand that the work of art has a life of
its own which is independent of whatever intentions (conscious or other) its author had. Moreover, whether or not you or
I pay any attention to works of art, for as long as they exist they are a part of the
reality in which we live.

Let me give you two examples of works of art, a film and a novel, which clearly have lives of
their own. A few weeks ago in Love Auditorium my wife and I saw Kind Hearts and Coronets (1949) again.
Despite our continuing admiration for the film and especially for the acting of Alec Guinness (“He is an all-star cast
in his own person,” John Mason Brown wrote in Saturday Review), we found the film vaguely disturbing; we wanted to
leave before it was over. The plot involves the murders committed by Louis D’Ascoyne Mazzini as he coolly and systematically
removes the several members of the D’Ascoyne family (all of whom are played by Alec Guinness) who stand between him
and the dukedom he seeks to inherit. As we discussed our responses to the 1949 comedy, my wife and I
agreed that the reason for our dissatisfaction lay not only in our being older but also in the film's images
of unfeeling killing. The absence of compassion which characterizes Louis Mazzini as he calmly and single-mindedly pursues his goal had
seemed to us in the 1950s humorous in its urbanity and impudence. In a particularly memorable incident, for example, Louis
aims an arrow at a balloon bearing aloft one of his doomed D’Ascoyne relatives and murmurs, “I shot an arrow
in the air....”

A couple of decades ago this kind of thing seemed different (maybe after World War II it should have, but
it did) from what we expected to discover happening in our world. Because we were in a good mood and
were watching a superb comic actor do a superb job, when we got something different from what we expected to
get we responded by laughing. But now our world has changed, and the bold, rash terrorizing and murdering of human
beings has become almost commonplace. Think of the continuing armed conflict in Ireland, of the murders in Munich in 1971,
of the recent skyjacking of Lufthansa Flight 181 after it took off from Mallorca—think of what West Germany is suffering.
The changes in our world appear to me to account for Kind Hearts and Coronets seeming as unfunny as it
does in 1977. No one connected with the film, not even Roy Horniman, the author of the novel on which
it was based, or Robert Hamer, the director, could have foreseen my later response to it; no one could have
intended that it affect me as it did. Like any work of art, the film has a life of its
own and has the power to heighten our awareness of our world. I believe that in this principal function, art
is crucial by enabling us to see, to hear, to feel, to understand; to perceive as we could not without
it. Because neither property nor life enjoys anything like the degree of inviolability both seemed to enjoy a few years
ago, a saucy comedy about an unabashed murderer seems lacking in humor.

A work of art that makes possible immensely more profound insights into the human condition, Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra’s Don
Quixote (1605) is the first modern novel. I use it here because Cervantes had no more idea of how people
would respond to his novel in the twentieth century than he had of what he had created. Don Quixote is
autonomous; regardless of what we may know or speculate about Cervantes’ satiric or ironic or other intentions, the novel has
had and has a life of its own. In an essay entitled “Don Quixote or the On the Edge Sunday”
By KEVIN SHELLY

In spite of what “they” may have you believe, college is hardly the place for a complete and orderly review
of life, and if you truly wish to develop a personal weltanschauung free from external pressures, best rent a house
on the beach for the year, with access to: a good library; a metropolitan area; pure country; suburban sprawl; fifteen
or so religious institutions; your state capitol; Washington, D.C.; unlimited travel to any foreign country; friends from all socio-economic backgrounds.
Failing that, be prepared to muddle along feeling frustrated by all that rushes by you: It is like living on
hors d’oeuvres and never being allowed to savor the main course.

This was brought home last week by a letter. Actually the envelope was enough to accomplish the jolt. So here
you are, with a little real world emotion in your hands, (actually it’s folded up and shoved deep into a
pocket until you decide what is to be done with it) but you’ve a paper to write, a test, and
then another test. Plus the new nest. Being somewhat shaken you give it to an old friend, one who under—

Letter to the Editor
Intramural

To the Editor:

The overall aim of the IMAC flickerball league at Davidson is to provide friendly athletic competition between all factions of
the student body. Yet, because of flagrant violations of common codes of sportsmanship and common dignity, some games do not
come close to achieving this goal. It is acknowledged that some flickerball teams who are more familiar with the aspects
of the game will be able to dominate lesser experienced teams. However, this does not give them the right to
ridicule those teams and to take all the enjoyment away from the game. Teams should respect the ability...Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Of the other teams during the course of a game no matter how lopsided it may be. In “Critique of
Reading” (The Wilson Quarterly, Autumn, 1977, pp. 186-202), Carlos Fuentes, formerly Ambassador of Mexico to France and a novelist of
stature, suggests that Don Quixote reflects the past world and helps to create the present world. The reflected world is
the old one of the Middle Ages; the world that is being created is ours. “In Don Quixote,” Sr. Fuentes
writes, referring to the Don’s love for a democratic Dulcinea del Toboso, “the values of the age of chivalry acquire,
through love, a democratic resonance; and the values of the democratic life acquire the resonance of nobility.” Dulcinea is a
slut but a human being; and Don Quixote’s belief in her transforms her into the most beautiful lady in the
world. Quixote’s “vision of regular” stands the significance of the letter and resulting confusion, to hold on to while you
dazedly go about your business, hoping that it will go away, or you will go away, or school will go
away. Five hours later none of those hoped-for events have occurred and timidly, hesitantly, you ask for the letter. “Better
to get it over with,” you explain, more to yourself than to the person holding it for you. Well, you
read it, and a lot of good that does. Still nothing concrete. (What is, though, what is?) And right away
your immediate situation begins intruding again on your mental situation demanding that choices be made, answers answered, ad infinitum. It’s
like a rowboat with a leak and all you can do is keep bailing. Stop to make some distress sign
and you'll go under. Unable to paddle you sit dead in the water. Perhaps abandoning ship and swimming for shore
is the best alternative; that is, if you knew in which direction terra firma lay. Perhaps all we can ever
do is keep bailing. Personally, I prefer to hope for a deus ex machina. Then I'll start being a Sunday
regular again. Values lost be. Most teams during some part of their flickerball career started off as an inexperienced team,
and had many embarrassing losses. Using their past experiences of losses and possibly being ridiculed at the same time should
make them remember how it is to be on the other side. Plays such as having a seven-man rush only
to have the whole team fall to the ground in an attempt to further embarrass the losing team has no
place in the Intramural program at Davidson. The teams whose philosophy is “obnoxious in victory, bitter in defeat” exemplifies the
theme of this editorial. The Beavers Davidson College IC rk meanings often fluctuate humanity,” Sr. Fuentes writes, is not based
on the lowest common denominator but on the highest achievement possible.” As in the works of Joseph Conrad and of
Wallace Stevens, in Don Quixote fiction serves to preserve the truth. This vision of the vital joining of the past
and the present is enough to delight anyone involved in the liberal arts. Just as passionately as Don Quixote believes
in his truth, we must believe in the world we are in the process of creating. Because our world seems
to lack an up, or a down, or a middle; because “The best,” as Yeats writes in “The Second Coming,”
“lack all conviction, while the worst, are full of passionate intensity,” these days passionately held beliefs are as likely to
be destructive as they are to be constructive of a good life. In the character of Don Quixote we may
perceive (as Cervantes could not have done) the “great themes of the centerless universe and of individualism triumphant, yet awed
and orphaned, (translated) to the plane of literature, where they become the axis of a new reality. There will be
no more tragedy and no more epic, because there is no longer a restorable ancestral order or a universe univocal
in its normativeness” (Fuentes). In our world we experience everything in relation to ourselves as observers bound to participate (as
Don Quixote participates; he even visits a printing shop) in everything we observe. Because Don Quixote the reader comes to
know he is read (as we the observers of our world have come to know we are participants), his identity
is located in the fact of his having to create his own reality. No epic hero, Don Quixote the reader
of epics becomes the figure who receives many different readings. He is the modern hero, a verbal image of the
modern human being in our world of many meanings, only some of which are that the world has one meaning,
one center, and an ancestral order that we can recover. Only to some people does our world seem a world
in which tragedies and epics can be written. It would take a bold person to argue that all of us
see our world as having only one meaning or that all suffering is tragic suffering. Different people see the world
in different ways and as having different meanings; and some see it as having no meaning at all. Like Kind
Hearts and Coronets, and like Hopkins’ “The Wreck of the Deutschland,” and Conrad’s Heart of Darkness, and Stevens’ Notes Towards
a Supreme Fiction, and Yeats’ “Sailing to Byzantium,” Don Quixote has become a part of our environment. Our world is
what it is partly because our works of art are what they are. If they were different, our world would
be different—just as surely as a person whose mind and heart are full of the worlds of Caravaggio and Shakespeare
and Mozart and Yeats is different from a person whose mind and heart are full of rock music and stock
car racing. And so we need to know especially those works of art which enhance our awareness of ourselves in
our environment. For if we are to live well, we need, like Don Quixote for whom all things were possible,
to know who we are.
