December 16, 1977

Quality is a way to find happiness

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Seven years ago Ralph Quackenbush started a hobby that cost him his job.

He took an interest in the craft of making furniture.

“I made a lot of furniture for my house. Then I made some to sell. I began to get a
lot of requests from people. Next thing I knew I was spending more time with my hobby than anything else,"
he said.

“So I decided to go with this full time.”

One day in October of last year, Quackenbush decided to close down his Main Street soda shop called ‘The Hub’
across from the college church. Out went the grill and magazine rack. In went the circular saw and electric plane.

In went happiness.

Ralph (he’s been on a first-name basis with students for years) works fewer hours now, makes as much or more
money, and gets more satisfaction from his work.

“This is a lot more creative than making hamburgers!” he said.

Ralph’s been so busy doing work for others that he hasn’t had a chance to finish a cobbler’s bench for
himself.

He is rushed right now trying to refinish an oak table and three chairs by Christmas. There’s furniture waiting for
him that he has not even had a chance to pick up yet.

But if Christmas is a busy time for Ralph, it’s not really that much busier than other times. It’s just
hectic because he’s faced with deadlines. “At Christmastime people want them on time. Most of the time, it doesn’t matter
if I’m a week or two late,” he said as he bent over to weave cane fibers into a chair
seat.

“It takes a lot of patience. As soon as you start to rush something you'll louse it up. You can’t
rush it and do it right. No way,” said Ralph, as a small heater hummed beside him and the cane
fibers rasped in and out of the seat bottom.

To those who don’t love sawdust and old wooden parts, wardrobe bottoms, and rough walnut boards, The Workbench might seem
to be a cluttered place.

To Ralph it’s not. He loathes the assembly line furniture being slapped together elsewhere and believes in his work. “Good
wood is so expensive now that they’re building fiberboard and plastic furniture. But it won’t last. It’s junk.”

He believes in craftsmanship.

RALPH QUACKENBUSH rethreads a chair seat.

Spend your holidays with the books

(Continued from page 1)

Gravity's Rainbow by Thomas Pynchon was also named with the note that it “is best read when you have no
other pressures and a Christmas party to go to afterwards.”

Nicholas and Alexandra by Robert K. Massie was the first book to come to Will Terry’s mind. It kept him
enthralled on a trip out West one summer.

Malcolm Partin also named a book on Russian history, The File on the Tsar by Anthony Summers, along with Vincent
Cronin’s Napoleon Bonaparte. He added “something totally out of my field: Raw Universe: Its Beginning and Its End, MIT’s version
of layman’s physics.”

Physics professor Robert Aning suggested books far from his field as well.

His list included Six Men by Alistair Cooke which contains vignettes of famous figures including Charlie Chaplin and Peter Ustinov’s
autobiography Dear Me.

All God’s Dangers, a tape-recorded set of recollections of the twenties and thirties from an old black man in Alabama
is, to Ernie Patterson, “an example of courage, intelligence, and high moral qualities of a man who refused to compromise
with his beliefs.”

What self-respecting Romantic would give up the poems of William Blake (temporarily at least) for the likes of Frank Sullivan,
James Thurber, Ring Lardner, Robert Benchley, and Woody Allen? Charles Lloyd, of course.

Alexander McKelway named two extremes: The Ginger Man by J.P. Donleavy, the story of an Irishman who is a great
lover, and John Calvin’s Institutes of the Christian Religion.

Perhaps one might alternate chapters between the two...

“I’m very fond of Nikos Kazantzakis,” said George Labban. “To me he reflects the Greeks in their finest form, particularly
the Cretans as a special group of Greeks.”

Frank Bliss advocated a return to childhood. A literary childhood at least, to Alice in Wonderland, Through the Looking Glass,
and The Wind in the Willows. “I’ve found that many students have had no experience with that kind of literature.”

The Sea and the Jungle by H.M. Tomlinson, a story of the development of South America was described by Bliss
as “stunning.”

FACED WITH the exorbitant cost of having their bikes repaired, a group of students has formed the Davidson Cycle Co-op
to save cash. Located above the Union television lounge, the group expects to offer members reduced rates for repair work
and parts. Jeff Morris (left) tunes up a two-seater.

J. Harris Proctor also suggested an “adventuresome” book, Saul Bellow’s Henderson, The Rain King. “It’s entertaining. I like the style,”
he said. The story centers on an American tycoon who goes to Africa to find himself.

After too many pre-med committee interviews, John Kello suggested a great non-psychological thriller, Gray’s Anatomy. The book is copiously illustrated.
“Great for insomniacs,” he noted.

In anticipation of W.D. Davies’ January visits, Samuel Maloney suggested his book The Sermon on the Mount. He added, “tell
the Humanities students to read their homework.” (That’s Madame Bovary and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. If
applicable, check your syllabus.)
