The Dow

Dumpster blockage gives local man job hauling illegal cars

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Cliff Archer may get a telephone call and ten dollars next Tuesday afternoon.

If the garbageman happens to find two headlights and a brightly painted hood parked between his truck and one of
the dumpsters on campus, it’s going to be Archer’s wrecker that tows the intrusive car away.

As sole owner of the only filling station on this end of the county zoned to operate a wrecking service,
Mr. Archer, of Cliff Archer’s Texaco down on the Cornelius side of Davidson, gets all the college business.

“There’re a lot of students that just pull in on the grass or anywhere. They ask me why I’m towing
their car away and I say, ‘See that sign over there? ‘‘No Parking,’’’ said Archer.

“There’re a lot of them that put their cars somewhere at night and intended to move them, but overslept,” he
added.

But by far most of the 35 to 40 student cars towed each year are found blocking the dumpsters in
the afternoon, he said.

“Used to be they had enough space for everybody to park. Now it’s kind of a problem for all the
boys to find a place with the freshmen being allowed to bring their cars on campus,” Archer commented.

“I don’t want the students to be mad at me,” explained the middle-aged man. At the beginning of the year,
Captain Hughes, top officer of the Davidson Police College Security Division, called up and said he had ten or twelve
cars he wanted me to tow.

“I said I didn’t want to tow twelve cars and he said the Exxon station would be glad to get
the business, and so I said if it’s got to be done, I would do it.”

Archer never charges a student to have their car stored in the fenced-in Texaco lot. He only charges students ten
dollars to tow their cars, instead of the regular fifteen.

“Ten dollars isn’t a whole lot. I don’t like to move ’em for less than fifteen, but the college is
close and I want to help the students. I have two in college myself right now—one daughter and one son—and
I'd appreciate any favor anybody would do for them,” he said.

Archer said that he only enjoyed contact with students, “if they’re friendly with me.” Some aren’t.

Trying to anticipate any trouble that students would offer, Mr. Archer rarely sends any of his relatives working at the
family-run station. He goes himself.

“I go because I’m familiar with the area there. Sometimes some of the students give us a hard time and
I know I can handle it,” he said.

“Sometimes they come out and want to argue with me about taking the car away. If they get there before
I do I let them have it. But if I’ve already got the cradle under the car I take it
away.”

“A lot of times it’s not the owner of the car who gets mad at you. It’s somebody else who
doesn’t like the idea of you taking a car away,” Archer explained.

Most students go to pick up their cars as soon as they discover they are missing. Usually this means they
are picked up the day they are towed away, although occasionally he must store them for as much as ten
days.

Last year, Archer towed a ’65 Chevrolet from Davidson. No one picked it up that day. A week passed; then
a month.

“I figured somebody left it parked when they graduated and just left some other way,” he said.

WHEN THE PRESSURE IS OFF and December arrives

Join The Davidsonian

Editorial, Business, and Production positions available (Some salaried)

Call or drop by the newspaper office (top floor) any evening at 7 PM

[David Litaker]

After the car had been sitting undisturbed in the lot for over a year, a boy came down to the
station and asked if he could get some books out of the car. He had a key to the side
doors.

“He took the books out and said I could have the car. I didn’t question him on it,” said Mr.
Archer with a smile.

Vietnam examined

(Continued from page 6)

Distrust unreal words, like “duty” and “honor,” to trust only his most immediate situation and its personal and highly subjective
demands, in spite of the ideals invoked by his officers or politicians in their safe, comfortable, and detached settings.

The war that Caputo shows is not a war of history books, songs, or inspirational stories. It is the story
of one man’s squalid personal war, and the effects it has on him, as a man, not just as a
cog in the larger picture. As such it is rough, tumultuous, linear and spiraling at the same time, and also
very penetrating.

Remembering Vietnam is strong medicine, likely to make the patient sicker than he was to begin with, but without administering
it there seems little hope that recovery will ever occur. Perhaps it is time we were all brave enough to
swallow this.
