October 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

There is a tremendous strain on us to write the IMAC column this week. We have been the targets of abuse and the butt of so many jokes that we find it hard to continue writing in our positive constructive manner.

Hogman finds it impossible to function in the wake of the narrow loss to the rump roasts of Texas. Bernard was sent into mourning when he learned that his former friend and coach, Ray Mears, was shipped to the crazy house for barking at basketball goals. How you people think that is funny is beyond me. Bernie, in his kind manner, looked beyond the abuse and sent Ray a box of Dog Chow and a few steak bones.

Besides having to weather the comments about the Razorbacks and Mears, we have received a pantload of complaints from the female flickerball population about our lack of coverage of girls’ flickerball. In response to that pressure, we would like to dedicate the rest of this paragraph to presenting our first annual girls’ flickerball awards, keeping in mind that girls’ flickerball is a legitimate IMAC sport.

Most Beautiful: Laura Brayshaw
Best Uniforms: M&M's
Nicest Legs: Ruskeller

Simmons leads tough golfers to third place

By MIKE KENNEDY
Staff Writer

L.D. Simmons, with rounds of 74 and 73, finished in second place and led the golf team to a third place finish at the Eighth Annual Etowah Golf Invitational.

Despite the heavy tackle golf schedule earlier this fall, the golfers were in third the whole way behind two first-rate golf schools, Georgia State and Gardner-Webb. The Cats did beat such perennial powerhouses as UNCC, Wofford, and at least six other teams.

First round scores for the tourney included Simmons’ 74, Casey Crompton’s 78, Scott Gilmore’s 81, Sollie Foy’s 82, and Bill Baird's 82 for a 399 total.

The second round saw the 73 from Simmons, a 77 from Foy, 81 from Gilmore, 83 from Crompton, and 84 from Mike Kennedy for a total of 398, 23 strokes ahead of their nearest competitor.

Most Promising Freshwomen Team: Penthouse Rowdies
Girl who should be in Men's League: Beth Tanner

Now that we've met our ‘equal time’ obligations, we can get on to the real world of flickerball.

The last weeks of the season presented IMAC diehards with some big-time games before the beginning of the tournament. In the biggest game of the week, the SAE’s behind Mike “I Spike” Daisley and Jim “Christy Moore Where Are You?” put on a second-half surge to beat the War Kiwis 40-24.

MacFleet and Stuff, utilizing Johnny Stroud’s speed and Bill McKinley's fists, pounded the previously unbeaten Whizz Kids 34-18.

Fupped Duck played its last game of the season and dribbled past KA #2 44-0. The Ducks must now leave the world of big-time Top Ten and play Davidson basketball instead.

The FIJI’s remained undefeated with a sterling 25-6 victory over the paraplegics of Hiya-Hiya. That game marked the 15th consecutive FIJI game played on Field #1. Hmm.

The Steel Raisins bolted from the third spot in our bottom ten when they stumbled past 2nd Richardson's Beavers 24-21.

David Shi's jokes kept KA #2's defense at bay and Jeff Frank clubbed the Southern Boy's offense senseless with his tennis racket as the Old Men triumphed 38-0.

KA #1 took two unimpressive squeakers from Pika (73-6) and the SPE’s (47-6).

In other games, the Bongs crushed Son of Somf 77-0 and PAX 38-0. 2nd Watts kicked the Nads 48-6 while the Delts nipped the Beavers 13-7. Seattle Slew Tampa Bay 30-23.

Our Top Ten this week:
1. KA #1
2. SAE
3. MacFleet and Stuff
4. Bongs
5. Fupped Duck
6. FIJI
7. War Kiwis
8. Old Men
9. Johnny Castleberry and the East Harlem Whizz Kids
10. SPE

The flickerball tournament is supposed to start next Tuesday with all teams scheduled to play. A meeting will be held this Sunday evening to discuss the seeding of the tournament and to clarify rules. Every team is asked to send a representative.

Graeme Thompson will also raffle off the things he’s ripped off from the equipment room.

Reggie Jackson and the Yankees suck. Later.

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center

Campus Clothes
Comfortable

Drop in and browse

Use Your Master Charge, Bankamericard, or Use Your Automatic Charge Account at

Join Meck & Son
- Only 6 miles North - Mooresville