April 1, 1977

The Davidsonian

IN SPITE OF PROBLEMS, the Lacrosse Team is finally rolling. (Irv Wilson)

Lacrosse season opens

Guilford blanks Cats

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Staff Writer

Last year an attempt was made to form a lacrosse club, but poor organization caused it to fold. This spring, the program has been well organized and its enthusiastic members seem anxious to make it succeed.

Last Friday, the Davidson club lacrosse team lost a 5-0 decision to an experienced Guilford team.

Davidson was without a coach, but nonetheless fought hard in a scoreless first half.

In the second half, most of the Davidson players seemed to tire and Guilford was able to capitalize on their mistakes.

Midfielder Alex Evans commented, “Guilford has a coach and practices every day. I think their conditioning just wore us down.”

But it was obvious that the team's spirit was not dampened after the game. In fact, most of the players seemed quite pleased with their efforts.

Freshman Bill Mebane remarked, “Although we would have liked to have won, I think our defense was strong and if we can generate a little offense next time, we could win.

“As it was, we only practiced five times before this game with the whole team together.”

Evans added that the game was especially enjoyable for the players, who were eager for the chance to play, having run into a lot of red tape before the season started.

Senior Mike Robinson mentioned that problems such as scheduling, uniforms, referees, and field conflicts discouraged the team a little at first. Some were not sure it would all work out.

These problems are mostly behind the team now, though, and the players are ready to play.

Against Guilford, several players turned in stellar defensive performances. Both George Cornelson and Mark Armstrong provided the needed muscle, while freshman goalie Tommy Thompson turned in a tremendous game with 18 saves.

Commenting on the crowd, Evans pointed out that the team really appreciated the fine turnout.

Riflers exceed predictions, take fourth place in tourney

By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Rifle Team shattered pre-season expectations as they took a hard-earned fourth place in the Southern Conference Championship Tournament held at VMI March 5.

Losing only to seventh-ranked Appalachian and two military schools, The Citadel and VMI, the Wildcats had their best finish in recent years.

Davidson narrowly defeated a psyched-up William and Mary team by a score of 2,625 to 2,621 points. The Wildcats also defeated Eastern Carolina University and Southern Conference newcomer, the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga.

Led by Team Captain Tom Miller with a 267, Davidson set a team record with four shooters in the 260’s.

Senior Ben Simms posted a 264. Sophomores Tom Niblock and Katherine Whitney shot scores of 262 and 261, respectively.

Rounding out Davidson's top five was freshman John Parham with a 258. Senior Rob Mitchell captured the number six slot with a 253.

The Wildcats came away from the match with a season record now at 18-8-1, already well past last year’s 13-10 mark.

On Saturday, April 2, Davidson will host the Western Carolina Conference Tournament. The eight participating schools will be: Davidson, Appalachian State, Clemson University, South Carolina State, Furman, Wake Forest, Wofford, and Presbyterian.

Bolstered by the emergence of several outstanding freshman shooters, the Wildcats expect to do very well.

ETCETERA
121 N. Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

Closed Wednesdays

Jeans for Guys and Gals
New Shipment of Men’s Shirts, Ladies’ Shirts and Jeans.
Store hours: 10:00 to 5:00

Comfortable Campus Clothes

Come browse
Use Your Charge Acct.

Mastercharge, or BankAmericard

John Mack & Son

Only Six Miles North — Mooresville