October 17, 1977

The Davidsonian

Davidson initiates Black achievement scholarship

By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

Beginning with the Class of 1983, Davidson College will sponsor National Achievement Scholarships, according to Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid H. Edmunds White.

The National Achievement Scholarship Program, administered by the National Merit Scholarship Corporation (NMSC), “exists specifically to identify promising black students and to encourage them to pursue higher education,” according to a letter from the NMSC to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

Zimmermann, Committee explore course evaluations

By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

Vice-President of Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann, the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC), and the SGA are working to develop new systems of student evaluation of faculty and courses at Davidson.

There are two basic purposes behind course evaluation. One is to allow for student input into the administration’s assessment of faculty, involving, for example, promotion of faculty members and granting of tenure.

Zimmermann is in charge of developing a system that would deal with this aspect. His goal is to elicit student perception of faculty performance. According to Dr. Zimmermann, the information gathered would be used primarily by College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and himself and would be kept confidential.

Zimmermann is currently studying evaluation forms being used by other colleges. He will be working closely with the PAC to provide for faculty input concerning the issue.

The second purpose of evaluation is to provide students with information concerning faculty and courses to aid in course selection. The Course Evaluation committee of the SGA is dealing with this aspect.

The committee, comprised of students Dave Tinkler, Charlie Strange, and Ralph Yeilding, is working on a system that will be, according to Yeilding, “student run and used.”

According to Yeilding, some professors view wide distribution of this information as “having their grades posted on the doors of Chambers.”

Another criticism in the past has been that these evaluations have not been representative—last year only about 25 percent of the forms handed out to students were completed and returned—and therefore the results are neither fair nor accurate.

In response to these criticisms, the SGA committee is attempting to regularize the evaluation process, perhaps by asking professors to distribute the forms in their classes, to ensure that every student is given one.

Both Zimmermann and the SGA committee have yet to work out all the details and procedures. They both, however, hope to have everything worked out this winter.

White explained that the program has three subdivisions.

The first subdivision awards students a one-year nonrenewable grant of 1,000 dollars. These grants are financed by businesses and industries.

The second subdivision is funded by corporate foundations, foundations, and other business organizations. These grants are renewable and range in amount from 250 dollars to 1,500 dollars.

The third area is funded by colleges and universities. Colleges receive a number of names of scholarship finalists who have listed that college as their first choice. The College then chooses its recipients from this pool.

The new program that Davidson is now initiating falls into the third subdivision.

White explained that Davidson has always had a number of National Achievement Scholarship recipients who have come here with scholarships from the first two subdivisions.

According to the letter sent to Spencer, the high number of finalists who have chosen Davidson in the past sparked the invitation to expand the program.

“A total of about 85 colleges and universities continually attract black students who qualify as Achievement Program finalists, and we therefore invite them to sponsor Achievement Scholarships in 1978,” according to the letter.

White indicated that he was “pleasantly surprised” to learn that Davidson ranked in the top 85 colleges who attract finalists.

He explained that under the terms of the program, the college is committed to granting at least one such scholarship each year, but the college is not limited to that number.

There will be a minimum stipend of 250 dollars and a maximum of 1,500 dollars, but White indicated that that sum could be supplemented by regular scholarships and financial aid.

The program will be financed through the general scholarship budget. He added that it probably will not greatly alter the amount of scholarship aid presently awarded.

“We are going to use it as a recruiting tool to encourage more able black students to choose Davidson,” he said.

DAVE TINKLER, Charlie Strange, and Ralph Yeilding discuss course evaluation.

Traffic Court Will Meet

10 AM first and third Tuesdays of every month

Conference Room of the Union

PIZZA - LASAGNE - RAVIOLI - STEAKS - OTHER DISHES
CHOICE WINES & BEERS

596-0256

HWY 29 - HARRISBURG, NC

WORLD FAMOUS

VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA