September 10, 1977

The Davidsonian

Sickness downs Pritchett

By MATT WALL
Staff Writer

Davidson basketball is always a great subject for rumor, and the rumor mills have been grinding to greet returning students
with the news that Coach Dave Pritchett had been ill and hospitalized all summer and may be unable to coach
this year.

The fact is that Coach Pritchett has been in the hospital but may be back in Davidson this weekend.

In a Wednesday interview, Mrs. Judy Pritchett explained that her husband had been very tired after the pressure and frustration
of last year’s grueling season of coaching and recruiting, but that no one was aware of any serious health problems
until June.

In late June, Coach Pritchett remained “super rundown,” overweight, and began suffering dizzy spells which were later attributed to a
“low blood count or anemia.”

He was admitted to Charlotte’s Presbyterian Hospital for rest, observation, and tests.

When Coach Pritchett’s condition warranted further tests and more extensive diagnostic treatment, he was sent to Minnesota’s Mayo Clinic. Area
hospitals around Mayo Clinic were to conduct more tests Wednesday to determine the cause of his disorientation in balance.

The tests were to be administered by an eye, ear, nose, and throat specialist who believes Pritchett may be suffering
from a sinus staph infection. Apparently, the infection had been dormant in Pritchett’s system for years but surfaced when nervous
exhaustion and the blood problem had lowered his bodily resistance.

Mrs. Pritchett expressed confidence that her husband would return to limited coaching duties in a couple of weeks and resume
full responsibilities when medication and further rest have completed the coach’s recovery.

Also on Wednesday, Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill said that Pritchett had been in and out of the hospital most of
the summer. Cartmill had expected Pritchett to return last Friday, September 2, but more routine tests had to be made
this week.

The A.D. stated that the college was considering the situation on a day-to-day basis and could not predict when Pritchett
might return to full coaching practices.

Asked what might happen if Pritchett should be unable to coach the team this year, Cartmill expressed confidence in the
coaching staff and implied that they could take up the slack. However, Cartmill admitted that he had not talked to
President Spencer or the administration about such a contingency.

Cartmill explained that when Pritchett does return, the assistant coaches should do most of the traveling and recruiting, relieving Pritchett
of much pressure and allowing him to concentrate his skills on being a “floor coach.”

While the specific diagnosis and prognosis on Coach Pritchett must wait until his return to Davidson, indications are that his
rest and recuperation are essentially complete. Students and all concerned with Davidson College are anxious for Pritchett to return and
have a good year.

Football preview

Farrell foresees turnabout

By JEFF CLARK
Staff Writer

After two weeks of one of his most strenuous pre-season workouts, Coach Ed Farrell sees what he calls the “culmination
of four years of work.”

He foresees Davidson’s football team turning the corner on the win/loss record and enjoying a winning season for the first
time since 1969.

At the end of pre-season practice, Farrell pointed out several very positive aspects for his fourth year as head coach
at D.C. Of the 95 players who reported to practice, 95 are still healthy, which is an oddity in the
game of football.

Coach Farrell reports depth and experience at many of the key positions.

In their wing-T offense, the Wildcats have two quarterbacks, Bob McCarthy and Al Rhyne, two fullbacks, Page Walley and Mark
Hooper, and three halfbacks, Pete Legler, Eddie Setzer, and Craig Pyles.

McCarthy and Walley will start while the three halfbacks should get equal playing time.

The Cats are blessed with four outstanding linebackers: Cliff Hester, Jarry Taylor, Terrell Rhye, and Gary Stokes. Although Hester and
Taylor will start, Coach Farrell stated all four will see plenty of action.

Hester joins offensive guard Chip Howell and defensive tackle Frank Fields as tri-captains this year.

Despite the fact that this year’s freshmen are considered the most talented we've recruited, only six of the 37 recruits
will travel to Fordham for Saturday’s game and only kicker Bob Lankenau is a starter.

Farrell feels that he has too much experienced talent returning to start his talented freshmen but several should see action.

Farrell stated that he was not particularly relying on either offense or defense but instead on team balance.

He sees no unusual strengths in his 1977 squad but neither does he see any glaring weaknesses.

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday: 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.

Electronic Service and Sales
RCA
173 W Main Street

CHILDREN

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
