December 9, 1977 The Davidsonian

"Vie for to understand, respect, and enforce the system in order to enjoy it."
Mary May Oliver

Why are you at Davidson? What makes this place unique? When you went home for Thanksgiving, what were your friends’
reactions to unlocked doors and self-scheduled exams? Most of my friends were envious. Why is this so? It is because
we have the Honor Code and it works. People trust people. This is a rare state of affairs in our
society today. My hope is that by being elected to the Hearing Committee, I can help to see that these
high ideals are upheld so we can keep the freedoms we enjoy. Coming from a large public high school has
broadened my knowledge of different kinds of people. I think I can be objective yet sympathetic when dealing with others.

Betsy Thomas

The Honor Code means more than self-scheduled exams; it means a special attitude at Davidson. A trust between students and
faculty which makes Davidson distinctive, a trust worth keeping.

Susan Eglin

Two of the great aspects of Davidson, the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility, demand a Hearing Committee whose
members display integrity and open-mindedness. In addition, a member must be able to judge his peers fairly. I believe I
can be a good member of this committee for the next three years. I hope that as you consider all
the candidates, you will find me worthy of your support.

Karen Hester

I am running for one of the three places that a rising sophomore can hold on the Hearing Committee. The
committee decides whether or not a student is guilty of breaking the Honor Code. I believe I can make the
rational judgments this position requires. I have the time and energy to do an effective job and would appreciate your
support.

Shelli Ballantyne

Please give me your serious consideration for a place on our Honor Court Hearing Committee. I would like to be
able to use my energy to strengthen and further develop the Honor System at Davidson as well as perform the
traditional duties as a member of the Hearing Committee. The Honor Code was a major attraction to Davidson while I
was choosing a college, and its reputation is something to be proud of. My respect for the system even before
I chose to be a student here has caused me to want to work towards preserving the system for the
time that I will be at Davidson as well as for its future. Thank you for your consideration.

Greg Burnard

Personally, I view a position on the Hearing Committee as an experience through which I can learn. I feel that
such a unique position enlarges the individual’s knowledge of himself by forcing him to examine his own values and thereby,
hopefully, to emerge with a clearer view of them. I also feel, however, that I can offer something in return:
the experience from two years’ service on my high school’s hearing committee. It is for these reasons that I seek
office on the committee.

Rob Fields

Our Honor Code is a force that is with us every minute of every day that we spend here at
Davidson. It is a positive force which allows us much freedom -- we can schedule exams at our own convenience;
we can enjoy the benefits of an open stack library; we can leave our dorm rooms unlocked without undue concern;
we can eat at Slater when we forget our ID’s; we can cash checks at Seven-Eleven even with only our
Davidson ID’s. We are trusted. This freedom is due entirely to the consideration of others which our Honor Code prompts
us to exhibit. I strongly believe in our Honor Code, and I would like to have a chance to see
that it continues to work. For this reason, I am running for one of the freshman (rising-sophomore) positions on the
Hearing Committee.

Sophomores

Sheri Gravett

The privileges that we enjoy should not be taken lightly. One of Davidson’s most attractive features is its Honor Code.
The job of the Hearing Committee is to ensure that the Honor Code remains strong and functioning. I wish to
serve you as a member.of the hearing committee. I know this is a responsible and difficult position because I served
on a similar committee in high school. I sincerely hope, though, that the Hearing Committee will not have the need
to meet very often. I would appreciate your vote on December 13.

Vincent Long

I see the election of hearing committee members as essentially choosing the people that the students want to judge their
honor violation cases. Members should be those that can listen objectively and fairly, but are willing to enforce the provisions
of the honor code as necessary. I entered this race because I am genuinely interested in maintaining the fine Davidson
tradition of the honor code, and I would like to take an active role in the honor system. I feel
that I will be able, if elected, to fulfill the requirements as I have stated them above, and I would
appreciate your vote.

Lindsay Robertson

My own experience in acting as judge includes serving as a member of our high school’s disciplinary board and acting
as a camp counselor. In both capacities, especially the former, I had to make the inevitable decision: which comes first,
one’s friends and popularity, or one’s conscience? This decision is extremely difficult and I do not envy those who have
not, in their minds, made it. For what it's worth, I think I could do a good job. But I
hope you'll decide for yourself just how “fresh” we as candidates are. Read the literature given out, but, more importantly,
get around to talk with your candidates. My door, for one, is always open.

John Thomson

The Student Hearing Committee is the body that is responsible for maintaining the integrity and effectiveness of the Honor Code.
The advantages of the code, such as self-scheduled exams and unlocked doors, are far too valuable to lose. The only
way to preserve these privileges is to ensure that all students abide by the Code. However, it is also important
that the Code is fairly administered to all students. There are numerous degrees of severity in violations of the Honor
Code, and there are few cut-and-dried alternatives as to what actions should be pursued. Only common sense and a good
understanding of the Honor Code can produce just decisions. I believe I have the judgment and knowledge to make these
decisions, and I would appreciate your support next Tuesday.

Julie Webber

At Davidson, the Honor Code is more than a simple statement. Here, the Honor System is an active, integral part
of student life. I wish to perpetuate this unique open atmosphere for future Davidson students to experience also. What we
are living in is an environment of trust, safety, and freedom. It is important to me, as a candidate for
the Student Hearing Committee, and it should be important to you that people genuinely concerned in upholding the Honor Code
are elected to the Hearing Committee. Therefore, being a concerned student, I feel that I am able to uphold these
standards which constitute Davidson life.

Guy Winkler

The Honor Code is one of Davidson’s most distinctive features. If for any reason we should lose the privilege of
the Honor Code System, I think it is obvious that not only would our academic burdens increase, but also we
would lose the trusting atmosphere of Davidson. The Hearing Committee ensures that this will not happen. Violations of the Honor
Code must be punished; it is the duty of the Hearing Committee to determine what that punishment should be. These
are my opinions. If you share them, I would appreciate your vote on Tuesday.

FLANNEL SHIRTS for Guys and Gals by Woolrich / Levi's / Van Heusen
Excellent Plaid Patterns and Colorings
$9.00 to $18.50
Shop now for Christmas
Free Gift Wrapping
Only 6 miles North
