6 The Davidsonian March 25, 1977

Opinion

WDAV role needs reconsideration

By BILL BURKHOLDER
Guest Columnist

What is the role of a high power, FM stereo radio station at Davidson College? Whose needs may we best
serve? Whose needs do we wish to serve? Will we reach Charlotte with programmatical bias, cultural prejudice, and an air
of affectational altruism, or will we provide a climate of open-minded diversity in our programming which recognizes as valid ALL
forms of music and radio-transmittable entertainment? What kinds of demographic groups can we attract? How do we plan programming strategy
to attract, hold, and enlarge these groups?

These and other related questions are the most important issues facing the WDAV Board of Directors in the coming months,
as the staff and advisors of the station gear up for high power broadcasting. This column’s aim is to stimulate
thought in the college community concerning the future of WDAV and its programming. Hopefully, some of your thoughts will filter
down to the basement of the Union via P.O. Box 278 and help us make better decisions.

Perhaps the biggest drawing card used in the appeal to the Trustee Development Committee for approval of high power plans
was the notion that classical music and “educational programming” would appeal to the kind of people from whom Davidson most
needs support. In fact, most of the proposal’s thrust was based on the assumption that the high power station will
broadcast classical music as the most important program element. While the proposal clearly stated that students would be encouraged to
produce other programming (rock, jazz, folk, drama, poetry reading), it stressed the demand for classical music in Charlotte exhibited by
the Music Listeners’ Coordinating Committee (10,000 plus petitioners). The appeal to the Trustees resulted in approval of tentative plans to
go ahead with the 18.54 kilowatt station, provided the FCC eventually approves our application.

But do we really need or want to place classical music programming on top of our programming priority list? A
quick look at the character of the Charlotte population is in order here. Charlotte is a large, fast-growing, highly mobile
center of banking and commerce, jokingly referred to by many businessmen as the “World’s Largest Truckstop.” Most of the population
is under 30, on the go, busily enjoying its affluence. People come to Charlotte to move up the ladder in
business and commerce, to rear their children, and to get an education. One reason Davidson is interested in high power
radio is the need to attract Charlotteans’ interest in Davidson as their liberal arts college.

SAEs not all bad

To the Editor:

The front page story in last week’s Davidsonian about the mischief some SAEs got into is indicative of the present
state of “news” reporting in this country. It is easier, evidently, to print rumors as “allegations” than to really search
for news worth reporting. It seems it is also easier to complain and criticize than it is to praise or
congratulate. The latest example of this attitude was directed at my fraternity, prompting this letter.

If one’s only information about the Sigma Alpha Epsilon chapter at Davidson came from the Davidsonian and Lee Grogan, one
would be led to believe we were a bunch of children with no thought for anyone but ourselves. I hope
I can show this to be false. We have, as a chapter, done the following in the past year: 1)
raised approximately $750 for the Muscular Dystrophy Association (our goal for our bike-a-thon next month is twice that), 2) spent
several hundred dollars for uniforms for a girls’ softball team coached by one of our cooks, 3) sponsored a once-a-week
swimming program for the Boys Home in Huntersville, and brought a group of them to the circus at Homecoming, 4)
visited, on a weekly basis, the patients at The Oaks nursing home in Huntersville, and had a party for them
at Christmas.

In addition to these and other activities done only for other people, some things we do for ourselves end up
being a form of community service. Since spring break last year we have had a dance on the average of
once every two weeks and, with only two or three exceptions, these dances have been well attended by students who
are not SAE brothers.

I will grant that a few brothers and pledges got out of hand last Wednesday night. I am not trying
to excuse them with this letter, nor am I asking for everyone to love us. Do tolerate us, though. Every
house on Patterson Court has its own character and that’s excellent. Don’t criticize the SAEs just because we aren’t like
you’d like us to be.To be. William Neal ’77 Davidson College. Increased impact of UNCC and CPCC has drawn attention
away from Davidson and has placed us in the position of product competition with these other institutions. It is clear
that we must get our attention in ways other than offering cheap education for large numbers of people. Equally clear
is the need to make ourselves widely known among Charlotteans, as it is difficult to be remembered very often while
the ’49ers are splashed all over the front page of the Observer for days on end. It seems even clearer
that one does not attract the attention of a large group of relatively young people by giving them a large
dose of classical music and a stuffy image, informing them at the same time that it is, ipso facto, culturally
relevant. Such an effort would only deserve a chorus of “bullshit!” sung by listeners as they tune us out and,
disappointed, tune in the local top 40 outlets.

We need a balanced approach to the Charlotte radio wasteland. What can we provide that is not already available in
excess of any reasonable need? Davidson is unique in its ability and opportunity to provide classical music along with non-commercial
jazz, folk, opera, bluegrass, blues, rock, and experimental forms of music. By non-commercial, we mean music which is ignored by
other radio stations who must make their living by attracting huge audiences for advertisers to “educate.” The Charlotte radio market
is currently flawed with the lack of any classical programming of real merit, almost no serious jazz music, only an
occasional special feature opera program, no blues, no bluegrass, little folk music, and overly commercially produced, all too prevalent, rock.
Record stores in the area stock thousands of selections worth hearing, but most sit on the shelves with slow turnover
due to lack of airplay. Only that which is heard is ever likely to be appreciated. Davidson has an obligation
to the community to humbly stand off to the side of the radio dial at 89.9 and give her something
different. “Free stereo, extreme diversity, and NO commercials make the difference...” And a wide appeal means a wider, richer, more
active demographic base.

With a four-segment broadcast day divided strategically to cover the above musical forms, plus a few hours of special interest
verbal programming, we can reach every member of many area households, and reach him/her with the added benefit of student
announcers who sound genuinely interested in what they are playing. Published program guides distributed at area schools would filter into
homes by way of kids interested in our rock, to their parents who would possibly be interested in jazz and
classical programs. (Of course, the reverse cultural interest may also exist but is probably a rarer phenomenon.) The point is
that programming efforts should reflect the demographic habits of our potential audience. Catering to one small segment of the population
is not healthy and is sociologically divisive.

Such suggestions concerning the expansion of WDAV much as it is now certainly frighten many people. Usually, those who scream
loudest are the most prejudiced and those who, incidentally, want to maximize the station’s programming of classical music. While the
staff as a whole is not adverse to programming the classics, there exists the common understanding that excessive broadcasting of
any one form of expression is playing God with people’s tastes. Excluding some forms of expression and favoring others is
like trying to keep blacks in the balcony. It is not only disgustingly ignorant but dishearteningly discriminatory.

In closing, I will introduce several horribly subjective judgments:
1) We should not broadcast classical music during morning drive time, but should provide classics for afternoon drive time.
2) We should not duplicate national news programs as presented by any of the commercial radio news networks. NPR would
be a good alternative news source, along with student-produced news features.
3) Classical programming should not be carried past 9:00 PM.
4) No musical form should be broadcast continuously for more than six hours at a time.
5) Program schedules should be similar for the same dayparts throughout the week.
6) Programming should attempt to reach the widest possible spectrum of the population without competing with any of the commercial
stations in the market by use of operant techniques of sales chart formatting.
7) Billboards and programs should be used aggressively during the station’s first few months of operation to ensure exposure to
the Charlotte population.

Please address all comments or suggestions to P.O. Box 278, Davidson.

Cole Slaw
A SNACK BAR SPECIAL
Shrimp Dinner only $1.25
5 JUMBO SHRIMP
Small Beverage
French Fries
Tuesday, March 29th — Beginning at 11:00 AM.
