October 7, 1977

The Davidsonian

Past Homecomings: Times Change

By STEVE AUSTIN
Staff Writer

In the spirit of Homecoming nostalgia, The Davidsonian delves into its archives to view the college at the Homecoming of
1951 and 1966.

1951

Homecoming ’51 marked the end of Davidson's President John R. Cunningham’s “Decade of Destiny.” Cunningham was honored for the decisive
role which he had played as president during the era surrounding WW II. The influence of the Korean War could
be felt as students worried about the draft and Community Chest solicited donations to defeat Communism. Davidson forgot the gloomy
world situation for a weekend, though, as it moved into a festive homecoming.

Jerome Hines, Metropolitan Opera bass, kicked things off Friday night. Then Elliott Lawrence, a popular pianist, and his orchestra moved
in for a formal dance at the Johnston Gym. The traditional barbecue at 1 pm on Saturday brought in over
1000 people. At 2 pm, the Wildcats faced the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College and were soundly defeated. Three bands—the
traditional Lenoir High School band, Presbyterian’s ROTC band, and the football band (forerunner of Davidson’s present Pep Band)—entertained the spectators.
Lawrence again performed Saturday night at an informal dance that lasted until the late hour of 12 midnight.

Life at Davidson during this period was far from dull. The Court of Control was waging a war against chapel
conduct offenders and freshmen who were going home over the weekends and not supporting the football team. Upperclassmen were asked
to encourage the offending freshmen to see the error of their ways.

Big plans were being made for the week after homecoming for the annual Men’s Fashion Week. According to its sponsor,
the Men’s Fashion Guild of Charlotte, “The purpose of the campaign is to inform the male population of the meaning
of being well-dressed. The sense of security it gives does not require a quantity of clothes, but quality and taste.”
Obviously, this was another fine educational opportunity offered by the college.

Nat Daniel summed up the homecoming experience in his column addressed to the many girls who had found themselves on
the Davidson campus: “You have visited the boarding houses, and have unknowingly witnessed the metamorphosis of manners—for chairs are pulled
back from the table for you, and everyone stands for grace, and you get your tea poured, and the biscuits
are passed instead of thrown, and the meal takes about twenty minutes instead of the usual nine or ten.”

1966

Vince Foster, Social Committee Chairman, said of Homecoming ’66: “This is the best entertainment we've ever had at Davidson and
probably the best for years to come.” Dionne Warwick performed Friday night in Love Auditorium to a standing-room-only crowd. Saturday
night’s concert in Johnston Gym drew 3500 people to hear several comedian teams and the Righteous Brothers. Unfortunately, the comedians
were first on the program and received considerable hissing from the audience. So much so that the Brothers were unnerved
and cut their numbers by half.

Have a big Big Weekend!

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY CHOICE

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWINGSERVICES: CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY SPEAKERS LIBRARY FILMS

Director of the College Union, C. Shaw Smith's explanation that hissing was “a local situation” and shouldn’t be taken seriously
did not allay the musicians’ fears. At Saturday’s game, the Wildcats scored a smashing win over their long-time rival, The
Citadel Bulldogs. Attendance was the highest ever, with over 3000 people at the pre-game lunch alone. An outdoor folk concert
was held at 1:30 am Sunday on the baseball field. Afterwards, until 4 am, a “Hungry D Supper Club Breakfast”
was served in the Union. Bedtimes had grown later since the '51 homecoming.

As in '51, students were concerned about the military draft. Since at the time one’s draft status was based partially
on one’s class rank, there was talk of Davidson going on a pass-fail grading system. The Court of Control was
upset again with chapel conduct, this time over the student body's rudeness to a speaker after he passed the prescribed
30-minute mark. The Grey Library’s lack of space was causing student unrest.

On a lighter note, Davidson men were obsessed with the idea of 700 girls being housed in Belk and Richardson
dorms for the “Big Weekend.” The girls expressed their opinion of the situation in an article in The Winston-Salem Journal
and Sentinel. The Davidson man was, according to them, “smart but immature,” “very rich and well-rounded.” One girl had this
to say: “If a Davidson boy looks deeply into your eyes, he'll probably propose a bridge.”

Murray remembers
By PEG TRAVIS
Staff Writer

If you’re looking for someone interesting to talk to this weekend, track down some of the alumni returning for homecoming.
Dr. Robert L. Murray, the oldest alum, is planning to be on campus this weekend. He graduated in 1917. He
can tell you about living in the old Chambers Building—when they had fireplaces in every dorm room and college servants
to lift wood up to the fourth floor with ropes. “Chambers was really different then,” he said. “We used to
build fires on the fourth floor. We didn’t think anyone could burn it down, but I guess we were wrong.”

Some classes were held in Chambers then, but most were in the Sentelle Building next to the old library. Dr.
Murray visited Davidson last homecoming and said that, though lots of things have changed, the people are still just as
friendly. “Everybody speaks to everybody. They really make you feel at home.” When asked about coeducation at Davidson, Dr. Murray
simply replied, “I guess it's all right.”

Some of our classrooms aren't classrooms. An environment that challenges your physical and mental skills will be your classroom in
Army ROTC. River rafting. Rappelling. Orienteering. Cross-country skiing. Water survival. Mountaineering. You'll find it to be an excellent course in
leadership development, as well as adventure training. Whatever the experience, Army ROTC will teach you to think on your feet.
To make important decisions quickly. Add Army ROTC to your college program and you automatically add a new dimension of
excitement and adventure to your campus life. Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.
