January 21, 1977 — Ta-Ta’s Proclaim Game of the Year

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S Staff Writers

This week’s Game of the Year featured the squirming Squatty Bodies and the Ragmen. The game, which resembled a Greek
wrestling match, was broadcast to Radio Free Davidson by none other than Howard “Fruit of the Loom” Cosell. The Squatty
Bodies put the Ragmen in their place 32-28 to remain undefeated. The sitting-room-only crowd jumped to its feet when somebody
dropped in the final two points. Bright Eyes “Big Thighs” McArthur led the pack of Little Big Barking Spidermen with
ten points to reduce Gomer’s Pyle to a heap of poo-poo pudding. Rick “Running Rump” Rauck paced the Pyle with
a futile nine points. At this point, we would like to mention Carolyn Watt. Carolyn Watt. The 38-35 squeaker enabled
the amok Spidermen to boost their record to 4-0.

In what eyewitnesses called one of the worst games of all time, the Bongs outscored By George 57-29. It was
reported that the Bongs scored all their points on fast breaks. The Bongs' THC offense was aided by the failure
of referees Randy Seago and Rick Blinkhorn to sound their whistles.

In a disgusting display of couthless gastronomy, Wyatt Alston consumed the basketball, thus delaying the game between Der Lix and
the Average White Team. After retrieving the orange sphere from Mr. Alston, Der Lix held on to subdue the Average
White Team 44-40. Little Women, with but four players, managed only fifteen points against Little League. However, Little League scored
a paltry fourteen, even though they had nine players, which goes to show quality beats quantity.

Support Wildcat Athletics!

Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.
Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10-5:30 pm Monday-Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville 663-1503

In trivial action, Flying Phalli crept past the eternally winless Cambodian Reds, 78-30. Big Goot and the Yettis tiptoed through
I Deta Key, 54-11. The Basement Bangars put down a valiant effort by the Bulletmen and shot past them 48-9
to retain the Division VII lead. The sudden rash of forfeititis extremis worries us a bit. If we have no
one to write about, our column will dissipate. If columnis dissipatis occurs, we will have the Monolithic Defenders of the
Faith reign curses upon your heads.

We forgot to mention a course we are offering during spring term. The course, Art of Ta-Ta, 101, will meet
Friday and Saturday nights at 11:00 pm. Emphasis will be placed on greater curves. Prerequisite: Kanippers 100. Due to our
delayed announcement, the course will be available during drop-add.

The Davidsonian

CINDY MORRISON pounds down the court to contribute two points in the Wildcatte’s victory Friday over Catawba College. (Irv Wilson)

Inadequate Facilities Spell Defeat, Swimmers Edged by Madison

By DAVID HULL Staff Writer

Due to a lack of adequate facilities, the Davidson swimming team went 1-1 at home last weekend instead of 2-0.
Last Friday, the team was edged by Madison 59-52 and on Saturday they routed Augusta, 70-40. On Friday, an exceptionally
large crowd witnessed a 16-0 score in favor of Madison before the first swimmer had even broken the surface of
the pool. Davidson has not had diving facilities for the past two years because the low rafters and a shallow
pool do not meet the minimum standards for an indoor diving board. As a result, the Davidson team automatically forfeits
the 16 points involved in the diving competition each time they have a meet at home. Despite this initial setback,
the inspired Davidson swimmers managed to even the score against Madison at 52-52 with only the relay left. The relay
team...Turned on one of its best efforts of the year, but still lost the event by 0.4 seconds. Jonathan Washburn
set a new school record in the 500-yard freestyle against Wildcats square off against Gamecocks in TV battle.

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats, fresh from a 59-54 triumph over Dartmouth, play the fighting Gamecocks of South Carolina in a regionally
televised game at Columbia this Saturday afternoon. The Gamecocks are 5-6 for the year, but their losses are to the
likes of Alabama (twice), Kentucky, Cincinnati, and Michigan.

A strong inside game has been a trademark of South Carolina basketball, and this year’s team is no exception. Dominating
in the middle for the Gamecocks is freshman Jim Graziano, who has been very impressive to date with his strong
rebounding and tight defense. Starting at one forward position is senior Nate Davis, who led South Carolina in scoring and
rebounding last year. Davis, an All-American candidate, is intimidating inside with his excellent leaping ability. Complementing USC’s strong inside game
is the ball-handling and shooting of guards Jackie Gilloon and Stu Klitenic. According to assistant coach John Kochan, Gilloon is
the best ball-handler the Cats will face this year. Klitenic, the other guard, is noted for lobbing in long-range bombs.

The Gamecocks utilize a man-to-man defense and will match up well in size, except in the middle where Gamecock Jim
Graziano will enjoy a height advantage. Their offense is geared to the inside game, but USC will run, enjoying considerable
depth. Davidson hopes to counter South Carolina by utilizing their patient ball-control offense, trying to slow the game down to
a pace somewhat easier for the Cats to manage.

For those not acquainted with the home of the Gamecocks, the USC Coliseum had been previously the home of one
of the nation’s longest winning streaks, that being broken earlier this year. The game will be regionally televised, with tip-off
time at 4 pm. This game marks the beginning of a crucial road trip for the Cats, who play at
Appalachian and East Carolina before returning home against William and Mary.

On with a time of 5:13.04, beating his old record of 5:17.6. He did this at the halfway point of
the 1000-yard freestyle. Mark Tommerdahl set a new pool record in the 200-yard fly with a time of 2:07.09, beating
the old record of 2:10.01. Coach Pat Miller commented on the team’s effort against Madison: “This was the first time
this season that we have had a complete team effort. Everyone on the team turned in good times.”

The Saturday meet was almost anti-climactic as the swimmers beat a weak Augusta team 70-40. Coach Miller commented on the
lack of diving facilities: “It is extremely hard to compete against good teams like Madison and William and Mary at
home because we automatically lose 16 points.”

“We lost the meet to Madison even though we beat them by 9 points in the swimming competition. Since we
are automatically behind at every home meet, a great deal of pressure is put on our swimmers which they wouldn’t
ordinarily have to cope with.”

Next year the situation will become even worse because the swimming team will lose both of its divers to graduation.
Presently, there are no underclassmen divers on the team and it is extremely hard to recruit divers when you do
not have a diving facility. As a result, in next year’s meets, the team will lose 16 points at away
meets as well as home meets. The swimmers will be on the road for the next 7 meets. Their next
home meet will be February 8 against Appalachian.
