The Davidsonian

April 22, 1977

By JAKE DARBY
Staff Writer

“The Madwoman of Chaillot,” premiering on April 27, is a tremendous change from the American plays that have been presented
at Davidson in the past year.

The author, Jean Giraudoux, a diplomat by profession, was a member of the French ministry of foreign affairs. He studied
in Munich and in America at the beginning of the twentieth century. Through his travels, he became obsessed with the
quest for cultural advancement through the exchange of ideas between nations, particularly between France and Germany. When World War I
broke out, he fully pursued his writing hobby and eventually turned his novels into plays with the guidance of director
Louis Jouvet. His main impetus for writing was to express the frustration he found in his career for settling conflicts.

“The Madwoman of Chaillot” is a chariot for many of Giraudoux’s sentiments at the time of the German occupation in
France, although he never wanted to single this event out as his only theme. He also put into the play
his impressions of the more universal conflict between the sensitive and the strong.

In the play, Giraudoux portrayed the world as a conglomeration of two societies: the eccentrics and the moneygrubbers. The eccentrics,
led by a madwoman who runs a café, represent all the old customs and cultures which make up France. The
moneygrubbers are invaders of the old customs, who have respect for no culture except for that of money; they sacrifice
their ideals for profit. The Baron stands for the decadent Frenchmen who allowed their old culture to be overpowered by
technology and industrialization.

Giraudoux wrote his play during the time of German occupation in France, and neither he nor his audiences could have
kept themselves from equating the eccentrics to the faithful French resistants and the moneygrubbers to the German invaders. But he
did not use any specific references to Germany because he wanted to make a more general statement concerning any conflict
between idealism and profit. Dr. Barber felt that because of this, the Madwoman is a timely play for this period,
in which we are constantly dealing with the rape of our natural resources as the price of progress for big
businesses, international power structures bearing down on the small business, and the conquest of the individual by the masses.

To quote Jacques Guicharnaud, “Not only is the spectator meant to sympathize with the hero, he is meant to identify
with his very being in the universality of his metaphysical condition. The invention of an imaginary mask, a special language
is meant to emphasize the hidden meanings by turning the attention away from the perceived universe.”
