December 16, 1977
The Davidsonian

One last time

Looking back is dangerous. The humiliation caused by past failures, frustrations over those things you left undone, embarrassment over things
you did, play with your mind long into the night. But looking back is necessary. One cannot erase failures, only
learn from them. And if you did not look back at the failures, you would not look back at the
successes of which you can be proud.

Looking back I see two themes which have dominated my editorship: the fight over Christian Tenure and the fight against
paternalism. I would like to see Davidson take a good look back at these two failures.

Christian Tenure:
Last spring the Trustees indicated to the College there would be no religious requirements in appointment and tenure. They wrote
a by-law which states the College will seek out both Christians and non-Christians. Then they wrote an enacting statement directed
to the President on how to interpret that by-law which said the College must maintain a “preponderant majority” of Christians
on the faculty. The President is thus not only permitted but required to ask a candidate his religious affiliations. I
find nine reasons why the trustees should remove the enacting statement.

1. If the College must seek out Christians and non-Christians and still keep a preponderant majority of Christians on the
faculty, a quota system must evolve. What constitutes a preponderant majority?
2. If the enacting system is consistent it must inquire into the religious beliefs of all present faculty. We must
find out how we stand before we can proceed. The process resembles a witch hunt.
3. Few schools, even church-affiliated schools, ask questions of this nature.
4. A person’s religious beliefs are personal. It is improper if not immoral to make inquiries into such a personal
nature.
5. There are atheists on the faculty now who, regardless of belief, “fit in” to the community and are thus
“exempt” from questions. If the administration and trustees believe that Christian commitment is achieved by maintaining a Christian faculty, the
existence of these accepted atheists makes us wonder if the enacting statement is no more than a tool to keep
“undesirables” out. If so, the trustees are more interested in maintaining the status quo than ensuring Christian commitment. Maintaining the
status quo is not a foreign idea in any institution. But covering it up with the shroud of Christian commitment
breeds hypocrisy. Hypocritical leaders are not good role models.
6. A Christian faculty does not necessarily yield Christian commitment. Students can complete four years of Davidson without encountering a
single discussion on Christianity. Faith is something which should be questioned and challenged if it is strong faith. If everyone
is Christian it is easy to lapse into a shell where people protect their faith for fear that if challenged,
it will waver. This imagined dichotomy between faith and reason does not reflect Christian commitment, but institutional fear.
7. An institution cannot force faith. The fear that Davidson will become secular in 50 years if it does not
maintain a preponderant majority of Christians on the faculty is the very rigidity which will explode, maybe making Davidson secular.
A college actively affirming its Christian commitment in an atmosphere of academic freedom has a better chance of keeping commitment
than one whose forced rigidity invites total revolt.
8. If the enacting statement remains, Davidson will face another “Linden Affair” when a candidate has enough moral strength to
refuse to answer a question about his religious faith.
9. If the academic community discovers that Davidson must maintain a preponderant majority of Christians on the faculty, we will
be laughed back into the Middle Ages where we belong.

The Davidsonian
Catherine Landis .................. Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ...... Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ...... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell .... Sports Editors
Amanda Hall ...................... Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings .................. Photography Editor
Susan Colan ...................... Production Manager
Warren Soule ..................... Business Manager
Brian Benninghoff ................ Advertising Manager
Patsy Daniels .................... Cartoonist
Gregg Strader .................... Photographer
Merideth Durden .................. Focus EditorArt Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Davidson will suffer from its reputation, and qualified candidates will turn down appointments at a school with such a reputation.

Paternalism: Davidson treats its students as if they were not able to make responsible decisions for themselves. I state five
cases.

1. The curriculum requirements committee determines how many courses a student must take each term regardless of how many extra
credits the student might have.
2. The College determines what kind of parties students can give on weekday nights as if students cannot decide what
they need to study and when they can relax.
3. The College forces every Freshman to live on a Freshman hall with two hall counselors. Often the hall system
compromises the students’ growth for security.
4. The classes do not demand enough independent work from students. Faculty members too often feed the material to students
like it was a packaged TV dinner. They inadvertently encourage laziness.
5. Too many faculty members encourage the growing emphasis on grades, alienating themselves from their students by assuming an authoritarian
facade. Many students learn more “tricks” than material.

People often tell me if I do not like Davidson I should leave it. I want to say to them,
if you do not like what Davidson should be, you leave it. Davidson is my school too. I like the
South. There are very few good schools in the South. Davidson has the reputation of being one of those few.
I do not think it is...yet. I think Davidson can learn from its mistakes.

I have enjoyed being your editor this year. Thank you for your support and criticism. I especially want to thank
the staff of The Davidsonian without which I could not have kept sane. After all, no other group of people
could have “made up” such great stories. Because when news is in your blood, all the news that fits we
print.

Just remember: Non Carborundum Illegitimi.

Egypt still no utopia

To the Editor:

Apropos an article carried in the December 9, 1977 issue of The Davidsonian entitled “Soviets muddle peace prospects,” I would
like to point out some interesting facts that seem to have been either purposely ignored, being inconsistent with the article
content, or inadvertently forgotten in the course of writing.

The author painstakingly notes that “with Red came dictatorship. The intellectual class and the nobility fled. Those who stayed and
opposed the regime were cut down. The press and mass media were controlled, censored and dictated from the hierarchy.” The
obvious conclusion an undiscerning reader, aided further by the distinctly partisan nature of the article, would be that Sadat’s Egypt,
as opposed to Nasserian tyranny, is a democratic haven wherein justice, equality, press freedom, and the right of dissent and
opinion reside in happy abundance.

On the contrary, Sadat’s Egypt is a mere sophistication of Nasserian dictatorship purged of its Marxian interpretations. Political chess has
resulted in the displacement of independent editors and recalcitrant writers from professional posts, the vacuum being subtly filled by sycophant
official and semi-official nominees who vociferously laud their benefactors, the ruling clique. Youssef el Sebai replaced the dissident Heydal in
the newspaper Al Ahram; dissident Sabri was handed the Akhbar al Yom while the Al Jumhuria was placed in the
tender hands of Abdel Mheim Sawi. A monolithic single-party system prevails, and today more than ever before, the ruling interests
represent the interests of Big Capital and landed classes alone. A plutocracy with a dash of parvenu. Not a single
person of note in the cabinet is a technocrat or an economic specialist, though wealthy scions of the upper elite
echelons of society like Ismail Fahmy (finance), Ahmed Abu Ismail (foreign affairs), and Osman Ahmed Osman (housing and reconstruction) abound.
In June 1975, the people's assembly voted amendments to the agrarian reform law which has virtually restored the semi-feudal authority
of the landlords over the peasantry.

Sadat’s ‘Open door policy’ (infitah) and his sham democracy have resulted in no emancipation of the masses or any economic
miracle. Egypt remains a troubled dictatorship.

Vijay K. Verghese
Davidson College
