Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Reverie

I sit bemused,
My bemusement lacking only a companion
To become content.

O night-starred eyes, where have you gone

Between the Hub and the Bub

there was a little guy—kind of shifty-eyed but all right in his way—
who had helped me get rid of a couple of things that weren’t quite mine!
needed to see.

there was a place I used to go where he might be at two-thirty in the
A of M.

cree-eak...thud
“How ’bout a Schlitz, Frenchie, no oil yet?”
“Hell no.
“Hell no.”
green tables, and neon lights, feathers of smoke a little below eye
level, whirr-ding of the Top Score in the corner
(he wasn’t there; I'd wait.)
“Rack”—
laying up a quarter for a little nine-ball
(look dumb, hayseed come to town—make a little cash)
somebody punches up Marshall Tucker loud
(no takers—everybody’s hustling, or getting taught how)
Jake's still sitting over in the far corner, watching air, a trickle
of spittle and tobacco juice from the corner of his mouth
(he’s always been there, so far as I can tell)
a glass smashes into a billion bits of silver slivers against the
wall behind me and some nasty-grimy fingernails reach for my face

(we’re two minutes into a vicious free-for-all, in case you missed
the transition. I did.)
the situation was such that to move fast was to make enemies. I did.
right at the door I ducked between two nasty-grimies intent on doing
things appropriate to one another.
I almost didn’t notice the door creak as I stepped out. Marshall was
loud, I said.

outside was a little huddle standing around somebody less fortunate than

me (and much less healthy)
somebody rolled him over.
he’d been shivved, right up through the sternum. there wasn’t much
blood,
but then, nobody’d pulled the blade out, either.
it was that little guy who had helped me get rid of a couple of things
that weren’t quite mine.
I walked away and tried real hard to look like somebody who’d just
stepped up to see what the ruckus was.
I did.

Mark Tyndall

William Holliday

---