By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

Approximately 300 people, including at least 20 faculty members, boycotted last week’s Spring Awards Convocation. Five faculty members and four
students spoke at the hour-long gathering, held in front of Chambers building. The speeches centered on the college’s Christian Tenure
Policy and the implications of that policy in the Linden case.

Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway, Jr., was the first faculty member to address the boycotters. “I am here this morning
because I value Davidson's heritage as a church-related college and its identity as an institution of Christian learning. I am
also here because I believe that this heritage and identity is threatened by a policy of total exclusion of non-Christian
faculty.

“Almost five years ago the faculty petitioned the Trustees to change their by-laws to allow for some non-Christian faculty to
attain tenure. After much debate and struggle this change was achieved, and the present Trustee By-Law states that ‘the Trustees
may in special circumstances grant tenure to a person who respects the Christian tradition without commitment to all its tenets.’
That change was made three years ago, and yet, since that time, the administration has not been willing to suspend
the religious requirement in a single case and has repeatedly excluded candidates for teaching positions on the basis of their
religious identity.

“Thus, one cannot avoid the conclusion that neither the administration nor the Trustees intend to honor or act upon the
liberalization of the religious requirement for tenure that they agreed to in 1974.

“For those of us who care about Davidson’s Christian commitment, this refusal to identify by anti and prejudicial exclusion simply
confesses its lack of faith in the freedom of Christ and the security of God.

“For this reason, the present policy of the administration is also dangerous. The present policy does not secure our faith
and commitment, but in a fundamental way denies it and undercuts it. The manifest unreasonableness and injustice of the administration
of this policy injures our reputation as a college, places us in legal jeopardy, and may therefore convince many that
the only solution is an abandonment of our Christian identity. And that is the greatest danger.

“I think we did extend an invitation to Ron Linden with the full understanding that he was a non-Christian. And
I think there’s a limit to how much we can expect him to support a religious tenure policy that implies
that he should be something other than he is.

“Consequently, if we extended the invitation to him, as a non-Christian, I do not think we are entitled to withdraw
it for that reason.

“On the broader issue of the principle, I would love to see Davidson become a viable Christian community. It is
my understanding that the way the Lord works through his community is by drawing people to him through the power
of his love and not by drawing lines around and saying ‘We don’t let people in who are not already
followers of Christ before they come in.’ And it seems to me that that’s what we really end up doing
if we maintain this policy.”

Professor of Political Science Pat Edmondson: “If Davidson finally gives up its church relationship, it will not be because there
are non-Christians on the faculty, but because a stubborn resistance brings us to the point where we have to choose
between being a religious enclave or an institution of learning.

“But this is unnecessary. A faculty generally, (even overwhelmingly) committed to the Christian faith can be achieved without the present
policy of exclusion. And I therefore call upon the President:

“1) To move immediately to open some faculty positions to non-Christians. This refusal to admit non-Christians to the tenured ranks
of the faculty is both tragic and dangerous. It is tragic because it contradicts the very faith it would defend.

“It is precisely in a Christian college that one ought to find an openness and cordiality to instruction from a
non-Christian perspective. The Christian man is not called to a life of pious isolation, nor is the church, nor is
an institution which identifies itself with the Christian faith.

“2) To develop procedures for the interviewing and hiring of faculty which will avoid the needless embarrassment of the present
situation.

“3) To reopen negotiations with Professor Linden to see if an agreement can be reached which would allow him to
teach at Davidson.”

[Editor’s Note: Linden has since accepted a position at the University of Pittsburgh.]

Senior Mark Rabil, one of the leaders of the boycott, then introduced Professor of Political Science Pat Edmondson.before they come
in.’

“And it seems to me that that’s really what we end up doing if we maintain this policy. For that
reason, I'd like to see barriers lowered.”

Mark Rabil read a prepared statement which had been drawn up by the leaders of the boycott and distributed the
preceding evening. The statement explained the major facts of the Linden case. The statement closes:

“Therefore, as a protest to the irresponsible and unethical actions of the college administration, we strongly urge students and faculty
to boycott Convocation.

“By uniting in this common goal, students and faculty will maintain the spirit of Convocation and assume that moral leadership
which the administration has rejected.”

Professor of Religion R. David Kaylor said he was torn between attending or boycotting the Convocation.

“I believe in what is symbolized by the occasion inside... (but) I also support that which is symbolized by what
you are doing here, and my conscience tells me I should support that in which I believe.

“To me, what is symbolized out here is an openness which rejects a close-mindedness born out of yesterday’s perceptions:
—a freedom of thought affirmed in Davidson’s Statement of Purpose, that it would set no limits to the adventures of
the mind in the pursuit of truth;
—a faith that affirms the humanity of every person rather than a fear that rejects those whose integrity prevents their
subscription to our creeds;
—an affirmation of the Statement of Purpose concerning the liberation of mankind physically, mentally, and spiritually;
—a rejection of the notion that Davidson’s self-understanding in terms of its Christian purpose necessitates a narrow sectarianism expressed through
restrictive clauses;
—an affirmation that Davidson’s own Statement of Purpose demands the removal of policy that does not express but rather contradicts
the heart of that stated purpose.”

Kaylor also opposes Christian tenure.

“That restrictive clause distinguishes Davidson not only from secular institutions but also from every other Presbyterian-related college I know of.

“It is an embarrassment from both an academic and a theological standpoint; it gives rise to injustice and misunderstanding; it
does not ensure that Davidson is more ‘Christian’ than other Presbyterian colleges, but rather shows an unwillingness to change a
policy which is anachronistic and which has become in our situation morally repugnant, at least to many of us who
take Davidson's commitment seriously. For these and other reasons, I will continue to work for a change of policy.”

He encouraged those who attended the boycott, saying, “I hope you will continue what you have begun, in ways that
will lead to positive change.”

Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac, who has continually supported efforts to change the Christian Tenure Policy, spoke next.

“What I'd like to talk to you about is the nature of a college and a church-related college. One of
the great confusions over the sixteen years that I’ve been here at Davidson has been between what is a church-related
college and what is a church.

“It seems to me that there are two purposes for a college or university; they’re very simple, we all know
them. One is the pursuit of the truth, and the other is the education of youth.

“To pursue the truth, one must have a free atmosphere. One must be able to debate various points of view.
This means conflicting ideas. John Stuart Mill said in his famous essay ‘On Liberty’: ‘If all mankind, minus one, were
of one opinion, they would be no more justified in silencing that one opinion than he would be justified if
he had the power to silence mankind.’

“It seems to me that in a college or university, this is one of the precious places in society where
you can have some degree of objectivity in order to pursue the truth. Various opinions can be heard—no restraints should
be put upon professors or students upon their beliefs or convictions. Sincerity and honesty should be reinforced, stressed, and valued.
In a situation in which a man’s employment is jeopardized by his religious beliefs, or his political beliefs, academic freedom
is not possible. The purpose of tenure is to protect the right of the professor and the right of the
student to pursue the truth and to speak their minds.

“Now what does this have to do with a church-related college? How can we be church-related and still pursue the
truth without encumbrance? I want Davidson College to be a Christian institution in the sense that academic freedom is genuinely
possible: that ideas can be pursued wherever they lead, that the Church has a presence here, but not a presence
that inhibits the truth and the education of youth.

“It seems to me that the church has the responsibility of providing an atmosphere where free inquiry is possible. It
has the responsibility of maintaining the Christian faith and its presence on the campus.

“It can do so in the religion department, it can do so in the chapel, and it can do so
in the very atmosphere, the counseling, the lives of the people here.”
