The Davidsonian

Interview with Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill

After seven months without a home, the Davidson athletic program has returned to familiar surroundings, the Southern Conference. Last June, Davidson announced that it would withdraw from the conference, following similar action by William and Mary, East Carolina, and Virginia Military Institute. The withdrawal was to take effect at the end of the 1976-77 academic year. However, the Davidson trustees reversed the June decision at their January meeting and said that the college would remain in the league.

Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill cited several reasons for the trustees’ action: “There was a strong desire on the part of the conference to get us back in... plus the fact that we would have continued to schedule some of the (conference) schools. It enables our people to have post-season competition which would not have been possible if we were independent and it makes our scheduling easier.”

Action by Virginia Military Institute, a veteran league member, also contributed to the Davidson decision. VMI said in early 1976 that it also would withdraw from the Southern Conference. Last month, though, VMI’s trustees reevaluated their decision and announced that the school would remain in the loop. This action by an established member of the conference apparently reassured the Davidson trustees about the SC’s future.

The Wildcat football program also caused some confusion between Davidson and the league. “There was no clear understanding. Some conference members didn’t know where we stood on football. We will declare Division II and that is agreeable with the rest of the conference,” Cartmill commented. Division II status for football will commence next year. Other sports will remain in the Division I category.

When Davidson withdrew from the conference in June, school officials advocated the formation of a new league. “Basically, we thought there was a possibility of creating a new conference,” Cartmill noted, “but this has not materialized. There was a great deal of talk, particularly in the Virginia schools.”

Netters Start Well

By PAT HICKERT
Staff Writer

Davidson’s tennis team, easily the winningest of all Wildcat teams in recent years, is off to another good start, winning all but two of their first 9 matches. The Wildcats have an extremely young team this year, with no seniors on the team, and they are facing the toughest schedule a Davidson tennis team has ever attempted.

Coach Jeff Frank does not expect to equal last year’s superlative record (20-6-1 overall, 7-0 in the conference), but he says, “This year’s team is a little stronger than last year’s team.” Frank bases this on the opinion of opposing coaches, and on the results of last week’s match with Swarthmore, which he called a good indication match. “They have beaten us for three years, and this is the closest we have come to them... and we have no seniors.”

In that match, the score was tied 3-3 after the singles competition, but the Cats could only manage one doubles victory by the third-seeded team of Rick Johnston and Jeff Lyle. Despite this, Frank says, “Overall, we are playing better doubles than singles right now.”

In yesterday’s match with George Washington University, Frank renewed an old rivalry. During his years at Davidson, G.W. was the Wildcat’s only rival for the conference crown, Davidson winning three and G.W. winning one. This time though, it was Davidson prevailing 5-4 in a tougher than expected match. Allard Castelein led the way in singles with a 6-2, 2-6, 6-2 victory. Mike Barnhill and Gil Kayton also won their matches, leaving the score tied after singles. But Davidson’s Mike Barnhill and Gil Kayton playing second doubles and Rick Johnston and Jeff Lyle playing third doubles, both won in straight sets, clinching the Wildcats’ seventh victory against two defeats.Over South Carolina in football, the conference itself was uncertain as to its continuation, but it is getting more national publicity. Three schools have joined the conference since June. The addition of Western Carolina University (Cullowhee, N.C.), Marshall University (Huntington, W.Va.), and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga should compensate for the recent withdrawals of William and Mary, East Carolina, and Richmond. Davidson, VMI, Appalachian State, Furman, and The Citadel are the other members of the eight-team league. The winner of the Southern Conference basketball tournament automatically receives a bid to the NCAA playoffs. 

Cartmill, however, emphasized that participation in the SC will benefit non-spectator sports as well as the basketball program. “Naturally, it will be advantageous to both programs. But outstanding athletes can be recognized in all sports within the conference. I feel basketball is no more important than recognition of outstanding athletes in soccer or tennis, for instance.” The athletic director also said that recruiting is easier for all sports if a school is in a conference. Davidson’s participation in the Southern Conference is not a long-term commitment, according to Cartmill. “I think it’s the answer for the near future. This approach is the only approach that can be taken. None of us knows what the long-range future holds as far as Davidson is concerned, since all other schools have grants-in-aid. Very few schools in the Southeast have Davidson-type programs. We play ACC and NAIA schools which offer grants. It’s very difficult for our people to compete.”

Davidson is not the only school facing questions about athletic scholarships. Title IX, which requires schools to finance women’s athletics, may radically change the grants programs in many schools.

STEWART BOSWELL backhands a return in a recent tennis win over George Washington. (Irv Wilson)

Shooters end with success
By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College rifle team ended its regular season at 15-5-1 with a big win over William and Mary on Saturday, February 12, at Williamsburg. The Wildcats broke three team records as they solidly defeated William and Mary by a score of 1286 (out of a possible 1500) to 1268. High shooter in the match was Davidson senior Ben Simms, posting a season high of 268. Sophomore Katherine Whitney’s perfect target score of 100 in the prone position was a Davidson first in recent years. The five-man team total of 1286 was also a three-year record high. Whitney shot the high kneeling score for the match with a 93, and Simms posted the high standing score of 86. Davidson’s top five included Simms at 268, freshman John Parham with a very commendable 260, Whitney at 255, sophomore Tom Niblock at 252, and sophomore Bob Shoulders at 251. Junior Tom Miller also posted a 251 but was kept out of the top five scoring due to the “High Standing” rule. Other Davidson shooters included freshman Rob Kirkendol at 244, senior Rob Mitchell at 242, and freshman Mike Pearson at 236. Freshman Louis Williams, Berkley Mann, and Carol Robinson posted scores of 215, 210, and 196 respectively. This was a big win for the Wildcats after last year’s crushing defeat at the hands of the Indians. Commenting on the team’s performance, team Captain Tom Miller said, “We were all glad that we pulled it off. Seven hours is a long drive to have to come back empty-handed.” Coach Jerry Flannigan was particularly pleased with the strong performance of his freshman recruits. “This year we've been concentrating on building a strong base for next year. We’re still a very young team with ten freshmen and sophomores on the thirteen-man roster. We are looking ahead to a very bright future.” The Wildcats’ next match will be a seven-way Western Carolina Conference tournament at Davidson, Saturday, April 2.

[see CARTMILL, page 10]