D The Davidsonian December 2, 1977

Letter to the Editor

Religious identity sorely lacking

To the Editor:

I feel a need to preface my remarks with a few general statements. I remember as a freshman that I considered most students who wrote critical letters to the editor as people who hated Davidson College and who were trying to be as negative and disruptive as possible since they didn’t have the guts to transfer. Why else would they criticize the College? “Davidson--love it or leave it.” Right? I don’t think so anymore. I like the place, but I also want to see Davidson become all that it can. That is why I’m writing--trying to force people here to face some pretty fundamental issues. The thoughts and issues I’m discussing are insights I’ve had since I’ve been here and many of them were suggested or shown to me by others that are here. All that I have to say is not original.

The biggest issue that Davidson needs to face is a lack of identity. Yes, Davidson has a statement of purpose but it has little or nothing to do with the way things are done here. Let me illustrate. Within the Statement of Purpose Davidson claims that “it endeavors to teach students to think clearly and accurately, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values, and to communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas.” For Davidson to achieve this goal there must be a variety of viewpoints among the faculty and the student body. Students may then be exposed to a multitude of values and judgments which they may critically evaluate and from which they may choose a set of values by which they may live. Unfortunately, year by year the student body seems to be evolving into a more homogeneous group rather than the diversified group that it should be. This places even more significance on developing a varied faculty representing a multitude of views. But what, in fact, do we see? We see a Board of Trustees afraid of Davidson becoming the kind of community which the Statement of Purpose indicates Davidson should be. We see several departments which seem to lean heavily on one of many prevailing viewpoints. We see students who wish to adopt a differing viewpoint being forced to do double reading and much outside work often.

Sadat: a native viewpoint

Youssef K. Abaqui

President Sadat’s visit to Israel is one of the most baffling incidents in modern Egyptian history. When Sadat was first elected in 1970 the attitude of the Egyptians was very negative towards him. He was strikingly different from his predecessor Nasser. Nasser was a charismatic figure who was highly electrifying. His public appearance was similar to that of a Roman emperor. He addressed Egyptians in lofty classic Arabic, using big words and great threats. Nasser had Egypt bound and bluffed; under his repressive regime no tongue spoke, the few that dared were cut off.

Then came this man who spoke in colloquial Arabic using calm speech. The nation was disappointed in this leader who was believed to be weak and backed by the Soviets. Egypt was now broken up and depressed; the bitterness of the defeat in the six-day war with Israel in 1967 lay heavy in the air. Sadat made three moves that won him a reputation as a great statesman. The first move was in 1971 when he discovered a plot for a coup against him by his entourage, which was highly corrupt. His own private secretary and deputy president were top agents in the K.G.B.--the Soviet intelligence. Sadat threw them in jail and shuffled and reshuffled his cabinet. The second move came in 1972, when Sadat astonished the world by throwing the Russians out of Egypt. Egypt was an important base for Russian influence in the Middle East. In a matter of 48 hours thousands of Russian experts were thrown out and replaced by Egyptians. The third move won Sadat his reputation as a national hero. This was the October War in 1973. The main result was to break the no peace-no war situation in the area and Egypt recuperated a good part of the occupied desert.

Jay Riviera

Letter to the Editor

Research?

To the Editor:

Studying hard? We're not!

Members of JYA Montpellier, France

Last week President Sadat made what could be called one of the boldest moves in history. He went to Israel. Egypt’s economy has been crushed too long--thirty years of wars, indulgence in ideologies, big words, have impoverished a nation whose civilization once shone as the summer’s sun. Sadat, no doubt, is a politician of high calibre, with one object in mind--peace. His visit could have cost him his position and his life. To the average Egyptian street fellow who has been taught for 30 years...To hate and curse Israel, seeing his leader go to Israel, sit with the enemy, and talk casually... this must have been a great shock. But today after his return—Sadat has become a greater national hero; not only at home but also in Israel. As one Israeli woman whose husband was killed in the ’73 war said: “If Sadat ran for president of Israel today, he would be elected.” Although we all look forward to peace, there is one party that does not want peace—to survive it needs conflict—the Soviets. The Soviets will do anything in their power to hinder peace. They have two puppets in the Middle East: Syria and a poor unbalanced colonel in Libya—Kadafi. I remember when in Egypt, we used to gather around a radio and listen to Kadafi; he is a joke and we were highly entertained. Anyway, the times require more seriousness and Kadafi should be ignored; he can fool around with his “bird brains of a feather”... as the saying goes. The Russians are behind all the massacres in Lebanon, they are behind Syrian objections to peace. Why? If peace takes place in the Middle East, it is natural that the countries involved will look to the West for a solution to their economic problems. That will throw the Soviets out of an excellent strategic base to plot against the world. We want peace, Israel wants peace. We have had too many wars, we want to live and see our countries flourish. If the Russians want war, let them fight in Siberia or the Ukraine. We don’t want Russia or America—we want Egypt. We have been oppressed and colonized for the past 500 years. Today we have a new light, a new hope: Sadat.

In addition to an already heavy academic load, this would not be so serious a problem if we were able to argue constructively with one another and disagree without facing the fear of personal disapproval. You remember my problem as a freshman? It seems to be quite widespread. We are afraid of each other to the point of not being able to accept personally the individual who disagrees with us intellectually. (I do not think that this problem is by any means unique to Davidson, though I do believe it to be most unfortunate for Davidson because of Davidson’s size and some of its religious claims.) Another aspect of the same major lack of identity is the College’s statement that “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As the College committed to the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the whole life.” This is a difficult statement to interpret. Certainly, if Davidson sees that way, such a vision should in some way be reflected in the academic life of the College. Here I realize that many would disagree, but why? Is it consistent with the above quoted excerpt from the Statement of Purpose? I have been at Davidson over three years and have completed all my area requirements. And yet I have yet to be enlightened. I have been exposed to “The Christian Tradition” and Higher Criticism of the Bible. But not once have any of my professors presented the Gospel of Jesus Christ in class. Again, if Davidson is to be a Christian College, let’s analyze this problem biblically: Davidson is hypocritical. It claims to be something that it is not. Now I am a Christian. I am also a hypocrite. Anytime an individual or a community commits itself to a set of absolute values, it also commits itself to hypocrisy. But I think there is a distinction here. At some point, I become aware of my hypocrisy and try to do something about it (repent). Recent actions by the Board of Trustees (the enacting statement and the refusal to face up to the real issue: What does Davidson mean when it calls itself a “Christian College” and how can it become what it declares itself to be?) and the Administration, faculty, and students’ lack of any significant protest to the Trustees’ actions indicate that a “preponderant majority” of the people who make Davidson Davidson either don’t think there’s an issue here (in which case I want to hear their arguments) or aren’t doing anything about it. There is no reason to perpetuate such apathy. Something can be done and we can do it! Dialogue is necessary. Proposals and possible policies will follow. Is the Davidson of your experience consistent with the Davidson of the Statement of Purpose? How so or how not so? What should Davidson be? What could Davidson become? I propose that the College community seriously consider these questions and try to come up with some meaningful answers. One excellent forum for discussion and dialogue is the Tuesday CROP luncheons. See you there.

Sam Weir '78
Davidson College