The Davidsonian

By MEG CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Davidson presently houses its freshmen in dorms assigned specifically to freshmen. In a survey of seven schools, it was found
that such housing exists also at Vanderbilt University and Wake Forest.

The Freshman Hall Concept and Counselors

Hall Counselors Opinion is the center of Davidson’s freshman hall.

ONE ROOM becomes (HURter Jennings)

Freshman hall deemed unpractical

By MARC MENCHEL
Guest Columnist

At Davidson College, the institution of the freshman hall is as sacred as the Presbyterian Church. A slight exaggeration? So
what? The point is that, at Davidson, members of the college community often blindly accept various components of the status
quo, which, upon reflection, may not make sense. The concept of the freshman hall is such a component which makes
no sense.

The freshman hall supposedly makes the transition to college as easy as possible. In fact, one might find the freshman
hall a debilitating agent, perhaps responsible for several problems which plague our campus. When a student comes to Davidson, he
is greeted by two “highly trained” hall counselors. These people are neither highly trained nor counselors. In fact, the best
service they perform is to bullshit Mom and Dad about Davidson during orientation. Most hall counselors would be in trouble
if they had to rely upon their sparse training when dealing with freshman problems; surely, most rely on common sense.
Common sense is something that many, if not all, students bring with them to Davidson. The majority of freshmen don't
need counselors when they come to Davidson. Ah, but what of those freshmen who do?

First, I shall discuss the debilitating effects of the freshman hall. Secondly, I shall outline the alternative living situation for
freshmen which, I submit, will take care of everyone’s counseling needs.

The freshman hall is a womb-like environment. Some hall counselors do everything but burp and tuck in their boys and
girls. Freshmen need make no effort to find out anything about Davidson once here; all one needs to do is
simply ask your friendly hall counselor. Hall counselors are told to be the paragons of virtue. The hall counselor will
take a freshman by the hand to the dean, a professor, and to his first mixer. What is wrong with
this panacea? There are three things wrong.

First of all, the womb-like hall creates the future apathetic student. During his freshman year, the student is hidden from
some of the ugliness that exists at Davidson. Everything is cushioned for the student during his first year here; therefore,
a freshman develops this apathy because he is rarely confronted with any controversy which exists even on our campus.

Secondly, the calm of freshman year makes sophomore slump that much more pronounced for many people. The halo effect of
being a freshman is quite a contrast when one returns to start the second year at Davidson. There is no
more hall counselor who can serve as a crutch for those weak of character.

Finally, I suspect the freshman hall to be the culprit for some very strange patterns of socialization here at Davidson.
During your freshman year, you tend to socialize with people primarily on your own hall. The problem with this is
that many people fall into the habit of socializing only with the people that you live with. Upperclassmen, ask yourselves
if there are not people you once lived with, who you were once friendly with, but whom you don’t see
much anymore because you don’t live in the same dorm with them. Now ask yourselves if that is not strange
in light of how small Davidson College is. Is not the lack of cohesiveness of this campus of 1300 amazing?
Not really when you consider the cohesiveness of the freshman hall which fosters this attitude, that is, the attitude of
socializing only with those with whom you live.

[see DIVERSITY, page 12]

Committee

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

“There has always been”"A myth that I have chosen the hall counselors," said Dean of Students Will Terry. "That is
not true." A committee of Terry, Assistant Dean of Students Mary Lou Dietler, Director of Housing Scotty Nicholls, the freshmen
advisors for the upcoming year, and five students selected by the freshmen advisors choose the hall counselors, according to Terry.
"Our main objective is to get the kinds of people who will set the kinds of examples that help freshmen
learn."

Surveys were distributed this week to four of the eating houses—Richards, PAX, ATO, and Emanon—concerning the freshman hall. Although the
survey was not representative and the response was not overwhelming, we feel that the results are worthy of consideration. One
hundred and fourteen students responded.

Those in favor of freshman halls: 91
Those in favor of mixed class halls: 15
Those in favor of one-sex freshman dorms: 76
Those not in favor of one-sex freshman dorms: 35
Those who liked the hall counselor program: 100
Those who used their hall counselors: 88
Those who felt they needed hall counselors: 77
Those who felt they didn’t need hall counselors: 26

There were a variety of responses to the question, "What did you use your hall counselor for?" Most students said
that they used their hall counselor as a source of information about academics. For many, the hall counselor became a
friend the student could turn to for advice about personal problems. A number of students said that the hall counselor
provided a means of meeting upperclassmen. Other comments included: "My hall counselor helped protect us against irate upperclass pre-meds when
we made too much noise," "My hall counselor got me drunk for the first time," "My hall counselor taught me
to hate SPE’s," "My hall counselor taught me how to spike watermelons with rum," "I used my hall counselor for
entertainment," "I used my hall counselor as a target for water balloon fights," "I used my hall counselor for unnatural
acts," "I used my hall counselor to buy dope," and "I can’t remember what I used my hall counselor for—it
was certainly nothing monumental."

Freshman halls bring freshmen together. Admittedly, some very real disadvantages to such an arrangement exist, but the advantages are far
more significant. Consider your first few weeks at Davidson. How many students did you know before you came? The adjustment
from a home environment to the widely acclaimed ‘Davidson Experience’ will continue to be a mixed bag. Leaving a family
and long-time friends can be as difficult as it is exciting. Such an adjustment requires the support of others who
are having to face the same set of issues. Freshmen have more in common with each other than with upperclassmen.
They need each other to grow. There is value in facing hardships together and in sharing the good as well
as the bad. The greatest help for an adjusting freshman is the example and support of other freshmen. Very seldom
will all the freshmen on a hall be facing the same problem. The similarity of the situation, however, allows them
to work together for one another.

The second important aspect of the freshman hall is the hall counselor. Hall counselors will remain essential if Davidson continues
the freshman hall. A freshman hall occasionally illustrates quite nicely the parable of the blind leading the blind with predictable
results. Here the hall counselor can comprehend and interpret the vast unknown to the freshmen, steering them clear of the
many ditches along the way. Hall counselors serve as traffic controllers, directing freshmen with problems to areas of help and
problem freshmen to Will. The complex process of socialization into Davidson culture is primarily facilitated by the hall counselor who
provides information and comfort for the freshman. Perhaps the most important function of the hall counselor, however, is to initiate
and integrate the freshman class into the rest of the college community. Freshman halls serve to bring the freshmen together,
giving them the opportunity to develop relationships that can last the remainder of their time at Davidson. Hall counselors initiate
the freshmen into the mainstream of college life. The two work together to help each class develop its own sense
of identity and to integrate that class into the rest of the college community.

BRUCE HOL advisor.
