The Davidsonian

April 15, 1977

[From The Appalachian, March 22, 1977], student newspaper of Appalachian State University, N.C.]

Boone,

SGA’s Office of Academic Affairs has completed the faculty evaluation it began last spring. Bob Brown, Chairperson of Academic Affairs,
said the evaluation will be made available to students before registration for fall semester.

Brown thinks the evaluation will “have a really positive effect.” He added that many teachers “will be pleasantly surprised” by
the high scores they received.

“This was done for the benefit of the students,” said Brown. He feels existing evaluations within various departments serve the
department and not the students registering for courses, per se.

The evaluation has met some opposition from faculty members. Faculty members did not consent to SGA’s original proposal, which would
have distributed the questionnaire in class. Instead, it was distributed in the Student Union.

Brown speculated that some faculty members opposed the evaluation because “I think they were a little bit intimidated... But I
don’t think anybody’s going to be fired because of it.”

Faculty Evaluation

Academic Affairs hopes the evaluation will help students evaluate teachers before taking courses under them. They also hope department chairpersons
will use the information “for the overall improvement of the department.”

In addition, they want the information to help faculty members evaluate their own performances.

Brown said Academic Affairs obtained copies of other schools’ evaluation questionnaires, and the results of those questionnaires. Universities and colleges
contacted included North Carolina State University, Clemson, UNC-Chapel Hill, Duke, and Harvard.

Town Ice Cream Social

Sunday 2-4 PM

©1977 JOS SCHLITZ BREWING CO. MILWAUKEE, WIS

THE DEAN OF BEER’S QUICKIE QUIZ.

Q: The best water for beer comes from:
a) Big Duck Mountain.
b) Underground from Tijuana.
c) A small store in Macon, Ga.
d) None of the above.

A: (d) The way some beer drinkers talk about water, you’d think Alice found it in Wonderland.

Not that water isn’t important to a beer’s taste. It is. Very important. But the fact is, virtually all brewers
filter and further purify their brewing water.

And Schlitz doesn’t stop there. They put their water through what they believe is the most sophisticated purifying process of
any brewer in the world.

So when they're through, it's purer than the purest spring water.

Club sports plans expanded future

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

The Council on Club Sports (CSC) has completed preliminary organizational work and is initiating efforts to expand the scope of
the Club Sports program and publicize its activities.

Sophomore Ron Rosenberg, President of CSC, explained the evolution of the Council’s efforts.

“This fall the CSC drew up a constitution, by-laws, and budget. The Council on Campus and Religious Life and College
President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., approved our plans.

“The Council spent a lot of time going over the projected budgets drawn up by the heads of each sport,
and we requested only what we really needed,” said Rosenberg.

“Then we went before the Activities Tax Council with our request for funding. They didn’t think our request was exorbitant,
and granted us $3000 for all the club sports next year.

“The program will never be totally dependent on the college for money—the members pay at least half of the costs
of running their clubs—but the $3000 will help out a lot,” he said.

Rosenberg explained that part of the $3000 would help offset costs of renovating and replacing equipment, and for referees’ salaries.

Rosenberg outlined some of the Council’s other plans.

“I plan to appoint a member on the committee to put together a pamphlet on Davidson’s Club Sports program for
the general information of the student body. It could also be useful for the Admissions Office.

“We will try to organize a workshop on how to run a club sport. We hope to pool our knowledge
and cooperate with the Athletic Department,” said Rosenberg.

As a future goal, Rosenberg hopes to work with the Athletic Department to allow the Club Sports and all students
access to the training room facilities.

“We want to coordinate the scheduling of games to avoid conflicts,” said Rosenberg.

There are six club sports teams—football, lacrosse, rugby, ice hockey, soccer, and skiing, and an affiliate water polo team.

“After a period of time we will examine the managerial and financial responsibility of the new water polo team and
decide whether they will become a full member.

“We have about 100-150 people participating in club sports, and there could be a lot more.

“Each sport has a dedicated core of participants, many of whom are freshmen. If these dedicated freshmen retain their interest
year after year, and we add new members each year, we will soon have strong teams in every sport,” Rosenberg
concluded.

The Club Sports Council is made up of representatives from each club sport, a student-at-large, Director of Physical Education Sterling
Martin, and Assistant Dean of Students Mary Lou Dietler.

Monday, April 18, 1977

8 pm in Perkins Auditorium

Film: “3,900 Million and 1”, one of the best current studies of population control.

Tuesday, April 19, 1977

10 am in the 900 Room

Lecture: James A. Cogswell, Staff Associate for World Service, Presbyterian Church in the U.S.

Symposium-World Hunger

Tuesday, April 19, 1977

8 pm in the 900 Room

Panel Discussion: James A. Cogswell; Terry Bonnett, Director of NC CROP; Charles Ratliff, Professor of Economics; W.T. Lammers, Professor of
Biology; R.J. Patterson, N.C. State Professor of Crop Science

Thursday, April 21, 1977

6:30 pm in DCPC Fellowship Hall

Crop Community Meal, $.75
