January 28, 1977 The Davidsonian

“Going to the Outer Banks, off the Carolina coast, during the winter is totally different because most of the summer places are closed and that’s the beauty of the place.

“The people that stay year-round are really nice and they appreciate having you come in and shop or talk. They’ll go out of their way to make you feel relaxed.

“Coming in from the northern end on Rt. 158 you should stop at the Chamber of Commerce building outside Kill Devil Hills. They know what places are open and if anything special is going on and you can even make reservations right there.

“Either stay in one of the little places, like the Buccaneer or camp at the National Seashore. If you’re in a Holiday Inn you’ll miss it all. Owens and the Croatoan are good places to try and everything is cheap this time of year.

“Self-entertainment is what it’s all about. Jockey Ridge, the sand dune near the Wright Brothers Memorial, is a really neat place to be around. You can rent hang gliders from John Harris, just across the street and some people parachute on the south side of the dune. Running down it in humongous steps or taking a piece of cardboard are fun too.

“The old houses on stilts are interesting. Some of those cottages have water marks six feet up the wall because the islands are barely above sea level.

“The state runs a ferry to Ocracoke a couple times a day. The village is really pretty and is spread out all around their harbor, which is called Silver Lake. Some big boats lay up there on the way up the coast and it’s a great place to watch the sun go down over the water.

“Bill’s Restaurant is right over the water and the crabcake is fantastic. There’s a little general store next door and it’s the best place to go just to talk. Up the street near the post office is the Village Craftsman. They’ve got all kinds of handmade stuff and the walk up the sand street beneath the live oaks is worth the time.

“They've got the wild ponies on the northern end of the island and it’s great to just watch them out on the beach.

“In town stay at the Island Inn. It is really rustic and the family that runs it provides a great atmosphere. Virginia Beach is only 45 minutes up the coast.

“Bodie Island, the strip of land before Oregon Inlet, is the most built up. There’s a campground at the tip before the bridge. Owens is a great restaurant and Sam & Omie’s has a special every night, along with pinball, pool, and fish stories.

“Pea Island is right across the bridge and if you catch the migratory birds right it is unbelievable. The dismalness of it all is part of what I like.

“Down further at Hatteras people surf all year and you meet some really unusual people here if you’re just willing to talk to ’em. Some guys we met just wander around trying to find the right wave. It’s good getting out of your niche by seeing others.”

UP and COMING

Friday, January 28, 1977
10 am Open End on Concerts Morrison Room
2 pm Wrestling: Lynchburg Lynchburg, Va.
4 pm Swimming: Ga. State Atlanta, Ga.
7 pm Sculpting Class Arts & Crafts Room
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: ‘The Eiger Sanction’ Love Auditorium
9 & 10:30 pm ‘Just Us’ Band 900 Room
ETC Party ETC House

Saturday, January 29, 1977
2 pm Swimming: Emory Atlanta, Ga.
7 pm Basketball: East Carolina Greenville, N.C.
9:30 & 11 pm ‘Just Us’ Band 900 Room

LITHOGRAPHS now occupy Chambers Banquet Hall.runs it are terribly nice people. "If you get bored by the emptiness, (Hunter Jennings) Gallery centralizes culture."

By DANA ENGLISH
Staff Writer

Chambers Banquet Hall now features "Selections from the Permanent Collection." The Banquet Hall, formerly serving as the location for a variety of miscellaneous gatherings, has undergone a transformation. One steps into a very different atmosphere from before: now there is a restrained, quiet elegance.

One wall displays the older prints, beginning with a notable Albrecht Durer engraving entitled "The Ravisher" from 1495. The list of notable artists continues, with a Rembrandt, "The Death of the Virgin," 1639, a scene from Goya’s "Disasters of War," and a lithograph by Honore Daumier. Camille Corot, Toulouse-Lautrec, and an interesting balcony scene (at the opera?) with persons in various stages of attention and inattention, as well as an intaglio in pastels by Jules Pascin, complete this side.

The other walls of the gallery display a variety of prints—most are prize-winning selections from the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition. Two especially striking prints are "Dutch Detail," a colorful silkscreen of a Dutch burgher and his wife, and a self-portrait by Raphael Soyer which shows the drawn features of an aging man, his eyes fixed by a dull vacancy. The tone in all the prints ranges from a bold black and white to a delicate shading as in the intaglio "Mist on Mountain" by Martha Lynn Duncan.

The lighting in the gallery is very effective. Spotlighted in the center of the floor is an exhibition within an exhibition: Bob Kopf’s "Furniture as Art," which will be here through February 18. There are relatively few simple pieces of furniture: two benches, a music stand, a table, a couch, and a stool. The amount of space separating one piece from the others dramatizes the beauty of each, inviting one to look from all angles. Not only the symmetry of the pieces but also the intentional curves and irregularities emphasize the artistry of the work. Most striking is the way Kopf has exposed the grain of the wood, allowing these patterns to decorate each piece.

The significance of the gallery is its location: in the mainstream of things. For the first time at Davidson, there is an opportunity for repeated exposure to good art without elaborate preparation and inconvenience. Persons at Davidson can now spend odd moments in the gallery as part of their routine.

Note: The hours of the gallery are 10 am to 5 pm weekdays and 2 to 5 pm on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.

Sunday, January 30, 1977
Morrison Room
DCPC
6:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship
8:15 pm Organ Recital: Wilmer Hayden Welch

Monday, January 31, 1977
2:45 pm Yoga Classes Morrison Room
5:30 pm Women’s Basketball: UNC-C Charlotte, N.C.
8 pm Basketball: William and Mary Johnston Gym

Tuesday, February 1, 1977
10 am Open End with Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
11 am Humanities Film: "The Drive for Power" Perkins Auditorium
12:30 pm CROP Meal 900 Room
4:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship Morrison Room
7 pm Worship Service DCPC
8 pm Open End on Patterson: Noel Morrison Room
World Hunger Discussion Group Conf. Room
10 pm Sky Band 900 Room

Wednesday, February 2, 1977
2:30 pm Juggling Morrison Room
Wrestling: Campbell Buies Creek, N.C.
7 pm Jam Session Morrison Room
8 pm Basketball: The Citadel Johnston Gym
9:30 & 11 pm Edwards, Clark, and Flynn 900 Room

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS
375-1449
918 W. MOREHEAD
596-0256
UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.