**The Davidsonian**

Three pairs wish to help next year’s Freshmen

By STEPHEN GOLD
Staff Writer

Three pairs of hall counselors will vie for the office of Freshman Advisor presently held by seniors Meg Campbell and Bruce Holliday. First Richardson counselor Eddie Pollock and First Cannon counselor Ann Hayes, First Watts counselor Doug Horn and Second Cannon counselor Nancy MacConnachie, and Third Richardson counselor Ralph Yeilding and Fourth Cannon counselor Cathy Howard.

The office is the connecting link between the administration, the hall counselors, and the freshman class. It is responsible for selecting and organizing the hall counselors, heading the Freshman Hall Council, and helping Freshmen become adjusted.

Pollock and Hayes feel they can work well together. They say that the contact between the advisors and the freshmen has improved, and both wish it to continue in this direction. “Working with the hall counselors is important, but so is keeping contact with each freshman,” says Pollock. “We can serve them better if we know them better.”

The beginning of the Freshman Hall Council was a real benefit, they feel. “It is the only major organization catering to freshmen,” Pollock continues. “We wish to expand it to have more freshman-upperclassman-administration unity.” “The position should take a lot of dedication, and we're willing,” concluded Hayes.

Horn and MacConnachie admit to having planned to run for the office together since October. “We know where the trouble spots are, from talking with Meg (Campbell) and Bruce (Holladay),” Horn mentions. “We feel we know everything necessary. We've been together planning since the beginning of school.” They are willing to commit the time, they claim, and they have planned to have no conflicts with the office. “We wish first to be advisors,” says MacConnachie. They plan to get to know the freshmen, visiting them and reaching them through letters and the Wildcat Handbook early. Also, they consider the Hall Council essential. Upperclassman-freshman meetings and parties, to “break the ice,” would also be important, along with getting the freshmen active with a service project. “We have considered the job carefully,” concludes MacConnachie, “and we've talked to advisors and freshmen. We have ideas.”

Yeilding and Howard consider hall counseling a rewarding experience, and want to continue working in a similar manner. “We are both extremely interested,” starts Howard, “and want to continue the successful work of Meg and Bruce.” Organization and efficiency are vital, and the time needs to be used wisely, they continue. Creativity is also needed. The Hall Council is a major factor in their plans, as a “sounding board” for problems. The training of the hall counselors should include first aid, they insist, and the mechanics of the buildings should be included in training. Emphasis on the Honor Code is also a plan, as well as on IMAC sports, and service projects for halls. Howard concludes that they both have experience. “Ralph was a sophomore class senator, and worked with the SGA course evaluation. I've been freshman class senator, and am involved with Council on Campus and Religious Life.”

Two subjects stressed by each group were: more encouragement and time spent on educating freshmen about eating houses and fraternities and the superb job attributed to Campbell and Holladay this year.

Darbyshire will serve as Y president

December 9, 1977

Wright, Dubose, Niblock back him

By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Juniors Glen Darbyshire, Bonnie Wright, Beth Dubose and Thomas Niblock will lead the YM/YWCA beginning in January. These elections were uncontested, and Darbyshire will serve as President, Wright as Vice-President, Dubose as Secretary and Niblock as Treasurer.

Wright views the present organization as “a mechanism to help get service projects organized.” Niblock adds, “We've had a lot of resources, many old contacts, which are especially important.” The officers plan to encourage further Patterson Court adoption of YMCA projects. They view Freshmen halls as another resource for the Y to explore. They also express a need for the training of tutors in the STEP program, which comprises the bulk of the YMCA program. The executive board hopes to examine and further plan YMCA programs on a retreat sometime during winter term. The officers are enthusiastic about the Christmas Fund Drive for the George Reedy Memorial Scholarship Fund, set up...For the Bushiangala School, Kenya where Reedy taught. In earlier years, the YMCA carried out a variety of functions. It organized freshman orientation, ran elections, and brought in speakers. With the expansion of the Student Union and formation of new committees, the YMCA took on a service-oriented role. However, the participation in depot lunches, organization of the winterization of Davidson homes, and the recently set up Junior high coffee house are all indications that the YMCA will continue to be a vital part of Davidson.

Cartmill announces improvements
By JOHN JACKSON
Staff Writer
CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

The equipment check-out room in the Gym will now be open from 9 am to 12 pm on weekdays and from 2 pm to 12 pm on Saturdays and Sundays, according to Director of Physical Education and Athletics Thomas A. Cartmill. Previously, the room was open from 9 am to noon and from 1:30 pm to 4 pm. It has never been open during the weekends. With the new hours, students will be able to check out equipment all day. During the evening and on weekends, the equipment manager will serve as a security guard to patrol the gym.

The change in the equipment room hours is one of the many changes Cartmill announced to the Senate Athletic Committee. He also plans to move the Karate class from the handball courts to another area of the gym. "The class meets from 7 pm to 9 pm on Tuesdays and Thursdays. This prohibits many students from playing racquetball," Cartmill said. "I think we can find a better place for the class."

Previously, the weight room and racquetball courts have been locked during home basketball games for reasons of security. From now on, they will be open, according to Cartmill. "We can put someone to watch the doors and stop any attempts of vandalism and theft."

Cartmill expressed a desire to stock the gym with more equipment but does not know what the students want or need. "I know we will get more basketballs and racquetball racquets. I need the students’ help to decide what else we need." The Senate Athletic Committee has agreed to circulate a newsletter and questionnaire after Christmas to determine what the students want in the way of equipment. One Senate spokesman said, "We want to find out exactly what the priorities of the students are."

Cartmill feels the questionnaire is important because he is often unaware of the gym’s needs. "For instance, I did not know the girls’ locker room needed more towel racks and soap dishes. There has been a breakdown in communications, but when I know about such problems, I want to do something." He has issued a work order to correct these problems.

Cartmill feels that, with the increased usage of the weight room, the gym might need to purchase a new universal weight machine. "More people are using the loose weights than ever before. They are a safety hazard if students do not know how to use them."

Many students complain the gym has no gymnastic equipment. Cartmill reports that we have the equipment but no room to put it in. He hopes students will suggest a location for the equipment on the questionnaire.

Other plans underway include horseback riding facilities located about five miles from the campus. The facilities could be used for pleasure riding as well as classes. Cartmill is also considering putting lights over some tennis courts. He says, "The senior class last year almost financed the lights for us. I’m still really excited about it. I think getting lights in the near future is a real possibility if I have the assurance that it is a top priority of the student body." He hopes the questionnaire will indicate students' opinions about the lights.

One of the most difficult problems facing the gym is security. Cartmill feels one way students can help is to be more aware of the problem and more responsible in reporting anything that looks suspicious. "I am working on the problem with the Senate Athletic Committee to come up with a security plan which will be satisfactory to everyone."