Counseling Center Battery testing change centers on vocation

Dr. William B. Hight, Jr., head of the testing center, announced yesterday he was discontinuing the personality and intelligence part of the battery of testing. Traditionally, he has offered these tests along with vocational tests to any group of six or seven students who expressed an interest in taking them.

When students requested testing in the past, Hight gave a battery of personality and intelligence tests along with the vocational tests. The personality tests gave Hight an idea of whether or not students were suffering from personal problems other than career indecision. If so, Hight would refer them to a therapist. He gave the intelligence tests to determine whether or not students were aiming too high in their career choices. 

But, Hight said, “the vocational tests were the heart of the battery. That’s what we focused on. The other two tests were not really necessary.” Hight will continue to offer the personality and intelligence tests if a student specifically requests them. Otherwise, Hight will only give the student the Strom-Campbell vocational tests. These tests measure broad areas of interest. The test compares the student’s answers to those of people already in specific careers. If a student expresses the same interests as a teacher, for example, the test result will tell the student he has a tendency toward teaching. Hight comments, however, “Not often do you have a big surprise.” “It's better than guessing,” he continues. “We don't have a hundred percent faith in the test but it is a time saver.” He goes on to say the ideal age to test a person vocationally is 26.

DAVIDSON

Help! The cry lies in the hearts of more Davidson students than most of us like to admit. College students still suffer the pains of growing up, the threat of peers, the fear of so many adaptations hammering away at formerly inflexible minds, self-doubt, indecision, and external pressures. Davidson inflicts its fair share of external pressure. Time is so scarce it soon exceeds most students’ “price range.” “I don’t have time to think,” is not an uncommon cry of frustration. And the answer? “It’s alright; have another beer.” But never admit that you cannot handle the stress alone like a “normal” human being.

It is a strange paradox in this age of fast change and alienation that so many people feel ashamed if they think they might not be able to solve their anxieties all by themselves. Getting help is often considered an admittance of weakness. So they try to handle the problem themselves, or, at best, hide from them. But more importantly, they should see the feeling that they are sick because they are not happy as normal. They are not sick because they suffer from stress to some degree. They are not sick because they suffer from anxiety. Instead, they are looking at positive action toward improving their situation.

Often “help” is not so helpful. Counseling, even private counsel, can seem to offer formulas which wear off easily. Others find and value such services highly. What kind of help a person seeks (friend) is not important. What is important is seeing stress as natural in the way you are. Students find a way to solve the answers they seek.

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

The expectations of the Centering-Venturing Life/Work Planning workshop participants contribute to the success of the program. Because these expectations vary from individual to individual, the opinion and the understanding of the Life/Work Planning workshop is also varied. Several of the participants...In the workshops during the Fall term, students were asked about their participation in the Experiential program. Junior Steve Cadenhead explained the program as "coming to grips with who you are as a person. It isn't a formula to go in wondering and come out knowing. It’s more personal growth than finding a job, a career, a life/work." Sophomore John Reed described the program as "a method. It helps you to label and to organize yourself, your gifts, your abilities. It takes time if you're serious about it."

"It was mainly looking for a balance between things you like to do and what is needed in society, too," said another sophomore, Chris Allen, as she thought about why she joined the program. "I was looking for a direction." Another sophomore expressed, "I really didn’t learn anything out of it, but I just put some things together in a new way. It didn’t give any answers but gave a clear message to find answers--but it was a very concrete way to do it." Sophomore David Litaker said that the program "pulls from the abstract." Although the workshop seemed a little repetitive since he had already made a career choice, he endorsed the program as very worthwhile, saying that it "helped me to realize my goals." He suggested that "if you have not decided at that point, or have no idea of a career, you can find out by going to the workshop."

Sophomore Cathy Chester differed: "It’s not for people who have no idea of what they want. You need a direction. The program is very good if you're ready to zero in on some aspect of your life." Junior Ann Hays found Chester's analysis correct and dropped out of the program with the intention of participating again in her senior year.

A few participants did find that the program reinforced their career choices and even narrowed that career down to types of jobs. Senior Ernie Church said that the workshop was "a good thing--not so much for me a great experience because I knew some of what I wanted to do; however, it does confirm what you want to do." Senior Anne Abernathy also found that the program confirmed her future plans. She gave the program positive support although it did not "center or venture me...the basic idea is very good." She added, "I should have had it earlier...I strongly recommended it for sophomores and juniors."

Another graduate-school-bound senior had a slightly different view. "I never gave it a chance. I was going for some help in choosing a career out of a certain field and the program is more of a ‘find yourself’ sort of thing. I didn't have time for that when I needed to hunt for graduate schools." Sophomore Lisa Ross described the program as a way of pinpointing things that she already knew about. "I didn’t want someone to hand me all the answers, but I didn’t seem to be getting anywhere."

Almost all of the students who talked about their experiences agreed that "you get what you put into the program." They were also apologetic that they had not given the program more time and thought. Steve Cadenhead commented, "The main strength of the program is with the individual." A major problem for each individual is setting aside the time for the workshop. Although Ernie Church discovered that the workshop did not take a great deal of time, others commented: "The program is very time-consuming," "a lot of outside work," "much preparation necessary."