The Davidsonian December 9, 1977

Platforms emphasize Honor Code © Candidates for Hearing Committee

The following Hearing Committee candidates submitted statements to The Davidsonian:

Rising S Percy Badham

My name is Percy Badham; I am a rising Senior, and I am running for the Hearing Committee. I do not feel that in this particular race that I need to try to impress you by listing all the activities I have been involved in or my qualifications. However, I do think that I should say that I strongly believe in the Honor Code and have great pride in the fact that it does work here at Davidson. Also, I feel that it is important for a Hearing Committee member to be fair, open-minded, and honest. Even though these may be general, overused terms, I think they are vital to the job. So I am asking you to give me a chance to make my contribution to the Honor System and to Davidson College.

CHOICE WINES and BEERS + PIZZA + TAKE OUT SERVICE STEAKS and CHOICE WINES

Jamie Bryan

I have always been concerned about upholding the Honor System and would like to become more actively involved in the workings of the system through the Hearing Committee. Another concern I hold is the general relations of students to other students. Here again, since the Hearing Committee will be dealing more and more with the Code of Responsibility, I feel I can best uphold the code by becoming a member.

Jack Griffeth

Few colleges today abide by an honor system. Davidson is one of these rare institutions. Our system of self-scheduled exams, as well as the other aspects of the honor code, must be preserved. If elected, I will do my best to maintain and strengthen this unique system.

Larry Jones

The Honor Code is the most important force a Davidson student faces every day. It is what sets this school apart from any others. It is a beautiful privilege we enjoy because of the quality of persons found on our campus. This privilege must be preserved. The faculty and staff, as well as fellow students, need to be assured that the Honor Code is the system that all Davidsonians will willingly uphold and support. This might necessarily involve a campus-wide reassessment of the Honor Code and of the individual’s responsibilities.

John Madden

The honor code at Davidson sets us apart from the great mass of colleges and universities across the country. It gives us, as students, freedoms and privileges unheard of at most other academic institutions. The honor code is something we should work hard to preserve and keep free from abuse. However, in recent years, aspects of the Honor System, or the way in which it is applied and enforced, have fallen into a state of disrepair. Theft and vandalism on campus are increasing at tremendous rates. Granted, much of this can be attributed to persons outside the college community, and external security must be tightened, but we can hardly claim that all Davidson students are guilt-free. Possible remedies for this situation might include stricter enforcement of penalties and greater student awareness of the problems at hand. Each individual could then be more of a contributing factor in the prevention of infractions and in the continuing improvement of the Honor System here at Davidson.

Bonnie Wright

Our honor system is the most valuable institution of Davidson College. Only as a hall counselor did the full weight of its value appear to me, as I sought to instill a sense of desire and responsibility for the Honor Code within my hall of freshmen. I was faced with trying to explain how the system allows us to live in a community of trust and how difficult it is to maintain a system that places so much responsibility and demand for self-discipline upon each of us. As a member of the Hearing Committee, I will establish ways of reaching upperclassmen to reemphasize

WORLD FAMOUS PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI VEAL SCALLOPINE CHICKEN CACCIATORE VEAL PARMIGIANA other dishes & BEERS 3715-71449 1318 W. MOREHEAD Gay 90'S ATMOSPHERE 596-0256 49 - UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.the spirit and mechanisms of the Honor Code. I will seek to determine the feeling of our professors concerning the weakness of the system and how we can strengthen it. I will involve more of the student body in discussion and activity which will heighten sensitivity to the necessity of maintaining the Honor Code as an institution which is vital to the type of community we desire to live in.

Rising Juniors

Laura Cates
The trusting atmosphere which surrounds the Davidson students and the respect which the students maintain for one another as a result of the Honor Code are unique aspects of Davidson College. The responsibility to uphold this quality, therefore, lies with the students. As a member of the Hearing Committee, I feel that I could better participate as a student in encouraging the continuation of this trust, respect, and responsibility.

Elizabeth Dean
Although there is little publicity about the activities of the Hearing Committee, this group is an integral part of the Davidson College Community. I realize the obligations of this office and if elected will do my best to submit only impartial and fair decisions. The students on the Hearing Committee have a responsibility to themselves and the Davidson Honor Code. I will make every effort to uphold this responsibility.

Mary Gray Gilchrist
If a student walks away from Davidson with nothing else, at least one thing he or she will have gained is an understanding of the word “honor.” We are constantly reminded that Davidson’s Honor System is a unique aspect of the college; few schools offer self-scheduled exams, open stacks in the library, and the opportunity to leave doors unlocked with little worry. This is Davidson’s stronghold; if it crumbles, so does the school. I want to see the integrity of the college upheld, which is why I am running for the Hearing Committee.

Martha Macgill
Responsibility and concern are key words when one speaks about the Hearing Committee. The Hearing Committee deals with Honor Code violations. A violation of the Honor Code is a serious matter—a student’s future can ride on the outcome of the Honor Code case. Those who are chosen to serve on the Hearing Committee must realize the responsibility of a committee member to protect the rights of the students involved. For our Honor Code to work, the students must feel they are represented fairly. As a candidate, I pledge that I understand this responsibility and, if elected, hold the future of the individual as well as the Honor Code itself in great importance.

Burkley Mann
After a year at Davidson I still get excited when I leave my books on a bench on the way to the Post Office knowing that even my pencil will be there when I come back. The strong Honor System that makes such confidence possible here depends on an effective student hearing committee and a student body that is constantly aware of the ramifications of having such a system. The purpose of the Hearing Committee is to prevent infractions of the Honor Code through education of the students, particularly the freshmen, and to help correct infractions through trials. The job requires the intelligence and good judgment characteristic of most students here. But it also takes a clever understanding of the Code of Responsibility and a willingness to accept the responsibility of deciding a fellow student’s future and to take time talking to people. Having a good Honor System means so much to me that I am more than willing to give up time and possibly tranquility to the Honor System as soon as I am given the chance.

George Murdaugh
I hate to see professors forced to rely on the honor system less than they might just because a few people violate it and thereby threaten its integrity and the enjoyment of its many benefits by the students. On the other hand, I realize the serious impact which a conviction could have on someone accused of a violation of the code. If elected, I would try my best to weigh any case in all fairness. Also, helping to impress the importance of the honor code upon incoming freshmen will be one of the most important aspects of the job. Each incoming class must continue...