rm “dake, The Davidsonian - April 22, 1977 ne” ge ae . Oe tee, a eee ieroacs. | ba me

Colostomy Snow fails to produce reality

By STEPHANIE COOK
Staff Writer

Senior Tony Snow, editor of Davidson’s would-be underground newspaper The Colostomy, has declared its status for this year to be “dead.” The Colostomy was to be an unofficial publication of Davidson, satirizing contemporary life. Snow noted that the “difference between an existentialist and a satirist is that the satirist hasn’t given up on the world. He chooses to laugh about it rather than shoot himself.”

One of The Colostomy’s goals was to examine the priorities people set in life and treat them humorously. “People’s priorities are so fouled up that it’s fun to take shots at them,” Snow remarked. The paper would also have included journalistic clichés (the “Whatever happened to ssdee?” series) and interviews with small children on complex contemporary issues (“What do you think about the SALT talks?” being asked of seven- and eight-year-olds).

“One of the problems this place has is the alarming paucity of creative enterprise,” Snow declared. He stressed that he didn’t want The Colostomy to be a “rag-sheet” of Davidson—“You can see that sort of stuff in the johns.”

Snow’s good intentions and ideas, however, did not result in a finished product. According to Snow, The Colostomy failed because everyone was more interested in writing something that was funny rather than putting in the hard work and organization which the publication demanded. People were lost in their “beatific visions” of writing for an underground newspaper. “It requires not being afraid to stick your neck out and get people mad at you,” Snow said.

Other problem areas were finding a printer and creating a functional organizational framework within which to channel the creativity. The Colostomy’s fundraising success in the fall proved that there was interest and enthusiasm for the paper on campus, Snow said. About 100 subscriptions were sold at $3 apiece. Snow announced that the money from the subscriptions is in the bank and that all the money will be returned to subscribers this spring.

Although it failed this year, Snow would like to see an underground paper organized in the future. He derived personal satisfaction from the experience. It was a creative outlet—“an excuse to write the sort of things I wanted to do” as well as being just “fun to try.”

-Hunter Jennings

Consider merit admissions

Groups study coeducation

By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

Two committees are researching the costs and problems of coeducation and admissions at Davidson, and will make recommendations to the Board of Trustees at their May 7 meeting. The Coeducation Evaluation Committee, a faculty-student subcommittee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life, is researching the changes resulting from the shift to coeducation in 1972. The committeeis examining the costs that have been incurred and the future costs that would ensue if the percentage of women is increased. The Committee divided the school up into several broad areas, including the Infirmary, Physical Education Department, the Patterson Court Council, Academics, and the physical plant of the school, to name a few. Faculty and staff members were asked to evaluate the impact of coeducation in their particular area. Most of those questioned said that coeducation has not brought many cost or policy changes. Although physical education and IMAC sports were not generally affected, Director of Athletics Thomas Cartmill said that it would be harder for Davidson College to compete in intercollegiate sports, especially football, if women’s enrollment increased and the number of males decreased.

The six-member student Committee on Sex Blind Admissions is considering the consequences of adopting a merit-based admissions policy. The Committee developed a survey with the help of Professor Kelton which has been distributed to 250 randomly selected students and 118 faculty members and administrators. The survey includes questions on the size of enrollment, the percentage of males and females, and whether or not Davidson should reserve 1000 places for men regardless of female enrollment (in order to preserve tradition). The Committee also hopes to determine the degree of support for the sex blind admissions policy.

“We're trying to allay some of the fears of the trustees,” said Ellen Stebbins, a member of both Committees. “If we go to a sex blind system, the trustees are afraid of having a class of 80 percent women, of less donations from women alumni, and of breaking Davidson’s traditions.”

“In the beginning I thought no one would be against accepting more girls because the current ratio seems to be the crux of a lot of social problems and increasing the ratio would seem to me to make the campus more natural. Yet,” said Stebbins, “I have run into a number of guys who would like to keep the ratio the same and even a few who would like no women here. Most women would like to see an increase in the ratio. In fact, none that I have talked to are against sex blind admissions up to a 50/50 ratio,” she said.

Admissions Counselor Tony Boon told the Sex Blind Admissions Committee that even if the Class of 1981 had been evaluated on a sex blind base, not more than about 40 or more women would have been accepted. He thinks that a class of 80 percent women would be far-fetched since men’s applications traditionally have and should continue to outnumber women’s applications.

The Committee on Sex Blind Admissions will give their data to the Coeducation Evaluation Committee which will use this material along with its own in drafting a recommendation for the Council on Campus and Religious Life. The Council will then present this recommendation to the Board of Trustees. The Committee on Sex Blind Admissions is gathering information from other colleges and universities which have recently gone coeducational. It will use the survey results and data from other colleges to make a separate recommendation on the sex blind admissions policy to the Board of Trustees.