```
=. ha Newidsonian

Former A.D. gets his due

Scott enters Hall of Fame

By DENNIS McLAWHORN & MARSHALL WADDELL
Sports Editors

Former Davidson College Athletic Director Tom Scott has been selected for the Helms Foundation Hall of Fame for Athletic Directors.

Scott will be inducted into the Hall of Fame in ceremonies to be held June 20 at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas.

“I’m thrilled to say the least,” Scott said. “When you receive honors such as this you really are at a loss for words.

“I know that some very fine athletic directors have been accorded the same honor and one can’t help but be delighted when placed in the same company.”

Baseball: 11-21
Wake Forest 4 Davidson 3
Davidson 4 VMI 1
VMI 10 Davidson 4
Davidson 0 Queens 2

Tennis: 15-11
William & Mary 7 Davidson 2
South Carolina 8 Davidson 1

Women’s Tennis: 10-8
Clemson 9 Davidson 0
South Carolina 8 Davidson 1
Appalachian 7 Davidson 2
Furman 6 Davidson 3

“I’ve been in athletics for a long time and I’ve had some very fine experiences. But this ranks right up there with all the other good things that have happened to me in athletics.”

Scott, 69, is a native of Pittsburg, Kan. He was athletic director at Davidson from 1955 until his retirement in 1974.

He served as a member of the prestigious National Collegiate Athletic Association’s basketball tournament committee from 1966 until 1975. He chaired the tournament committee from 1969 until 1975.

Although originally hired as athletic director, Scott took over the basketball coaching duties at Davidson during his first year when Danny Miller resigned in mid-season. He coached until 1960 when Lefty Driesell was hired.

During the next decade, with Scott as athletic director, the Wildcats were among the nation’s most successful major college basketball teams, ranking in the top twenty seven times, going to four NCAA tournaments and posting seven 20-win seasons.

Scott also coached Davidson golf teams from 1955 until 1976. His golf teams won five Southern Conference championships—all the golf titles in school history.

He often has been credited as one of the strong influences in attracting NCAA basketball playoffs into the Carolinas area. Greensboro hosted the 1974 NCAA finals during his period as chairman of the basketball committee and numerous first round and regional playoffs have been staged in Charlotte, Raleigh, and Columbia.

The National Association of Basketball Coaches honored him twice. In 1968 he received an Award of Merit for 35 years of basketball coaching. In 1975 he received an Appreciation Award for contributions to the NABC.

Scott and his wife, the former Bessie House, still reside in Davidson. They have two children, Kristi Jo Boykin of Charlotte and Thomas, Jr. of Greenville, S.C. The younger Scott is assistant athletic director at Furman University.

Netters anticipate a wild tournament

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

On April 28, the three-day Southern Conference tennis tournament will begin at Davidson and Coach Jeff Frank feels the Wildcats have an even chance of winning in what he feels will be a wide-open tournament.

The Davidson team currently owns a 15-10 season record and a 2-3 record in the Southern Conference for fourth place. However, the three conference losses have been away and on hard courts.

Frank commented, “I feel that any of the top six teams in the conference have a chance of winning the championship. Since we will have an advantage on our slower clay courts, our performance against the teams that defeated us earlier in the season on their hard courts should be greatly improved.

“Our chances will also be improved if there is a strong student turnout in both the morning and afternoon. Student support could be a key factor for us.”

Several individuals have been outstanding for Davidson this year.

Mike Barnhill has compiled a 17-8 record playing #2 singles and Gil Kayton is 14-8 playing in the #5 singles slot. The pair also plays #2 doubles and currently owns a 13-7 record.

The #3 doubles team, freshmen Rick Johnston and Jeff Lyle, have compiled an outstanding record of 15-4.

Frank feels that there is a strong probability that both the #2 and #3 doubles teams will win the conference.

Frank is pleased with the overall performance of the 1977 team: “We have lost a lot of close matches this season and I feel we have done well, especially with such a young team. If we play exceptionally well during the tournament, we have a good chance of winning.”
```