January 14, 1977

A SHORT-LIVED snowfall passes on. (Hunter Jennings)

In the public interest

President Young moves in
By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

With a new year, a new editor, and a new SGA president, it happens that we will now have a
new SGA column. I had the opportunity to talk with Thom Young, the new SGA president, on the eve of
his first meeting with the Senate. I had a lot of trouble finding something that he was discouraged about, though
there is a sense of apprehension about the fate of Extended Studies.

Thom is cooperating with existing Senate committees and is generally trying to funnel people with ideas and energy in the
right direction. The period between his election and the first meeting of the Senate has been one of cooperation. Thom
feels like he has been well received by Sam Spencer and Will Terry, and heaven knows that is important. Bo
Baskin has been very helpful in giving him ideas and answering his questions, and Roger Brown has given him three
pages of ideas. Everyone is very hopeful that he will continue his work on student-faculty relations. Roger has also been
recently appointed to fill the vacancy on the important Educational Policy Committee that has a lot to say about Extended
Studies.

Work is being done revamping the Arts and Crafts area of the Union. The Inter-Organizational Forum is meeting actively again
and Thom hopes it will be a “clearinghouse of ideas” between the heads of various organizations.

NC PIRG to host national conference

NC PIRG will be host to all the PIRGs and Citizen Action Groups (CAGs) in the world when we hold
the Southern Regional Conference/National PIRG Clearinghouse meetings March 4-6 at Duke University. These gatherings are designed to bring together students
and professionals to share current views on the movement and its pressing issues. One day will be devoted to the
public interest concept in general with a presentation on what it is all about, why it came to be, and
what one can do as a public citizen. The rest of the time will be spent in issue-oriented workshops: Consumerism
and Health, Landlord-tenant Relations, Occupational Safety and Health, Returnables, Utility Reform, and Nuclear Power. Contact John Hedrick at either -6834
(Duke 6) or -4116 (ATO) for more information.

Referendum

NC PIRG and NC PIRG at Davidson were very pleased at the outcome of the referendum last month. We want
to thank you for your confidence and support of us.

Happy Hour
25¢ Draft
PEREGRINE HOUSE
Thursday Night. 8:30—10:00 PM
Friday Afternoon 2:00—6:00 PM

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

To begin the new year, PIRG has developed two new projects. The first is a survey of housing in the
Davidson area. We plan to compile an off-campus housing directory giving location, rent, and condition of the housing units. Interviews
(mostly by telephone) need to be conducted with all the off-campus students as well as their landlords. If you would
like to offer information or help interview, call Kathy McLendon (-3060, Belk 468).

The second project involves the practice of cash discounting. The merchants participating agree in advance to give a discount to
any individual using cash instead of credit cards since the merchant must pay the card companies a certain amount of
money for the use of their cards. We have in mind a pilot program where we convince local groups and
then merchants of the desirability of such a plan. See Sabra Faires (Belk 468, -3060) if you want to assist.

Prison Reform

T. J. Reddy was in Davidson’s 900 Room just before...the Christmas break. To a responsive crowd, he read some of
his poetry and related his experiences in life and prison. Reddy’s visit was the first in a series of college-wide
events concerning prisons and their reform. Upcoming is an all-day visit by Jessica Mitford, author of Kind and Usual Punishment:
The Prison Business, on March 24, as well as a Prison Career Day in April where job opportunities in the
prison and criminal justice areas are discussed. We invite all to attend and participate.

NC PIRG Expands

Students at Davidson are among 10,000 students in North Carolina who contribute more than $30,000 to NC PIRG. Other chapters
are at Duke University, Elon College, St. Andrews College, and Wake Forest University. Next year, UNCC and N.C. State will
join PIRG, enabling us to work for consumer and environmental protection and against injustice more strongly than we have in
the past. (Ed. Note: John Hedrick, ’77, is the Chairperson of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group.)

Admissions

Are more women applying than ever before? Watch for these stories in future issues of THE DAVIDSONIAN: N.C. Fellows—interview with
new director John E. Kello, and announcement of Class of 1980 Fellows.

Club Sports

A report from the committee studying Davidson’s club sports and more the various school-wide organizations that are members. A “Trustee
Day” is in the works for February 14. The idea is that several area trustees will come to campus and
spend their time visiting with students, going to classes, in the Union, and even spend the night on the halls.
The last part should be interesting...

Sentelle Dorm

Senator Hans Watford is heading up a committee on the security question. He is curious about the absence of the
red phones on the girls’ floors, the lack of light at Carnegie, and why the police are always in their
cars instead of on foot. There is an idea going around to start a “bad check” committee that would handle
the problem of Davidson students passing bad checks, instead of the police. The Dean’s office has received three reports of
this practice since Christmas. They have the committee at U. Va. and it seems like a good thing for us,
too.

Carnegie-Little

Senator Dana English leads the group on curriculum evaluation and thinks that her group’s work will be ready for the
printer in about two weeks. The booklet will be available for fall course selection. There is a proposal that the
Senate elect a student to be a full-time editor of the booklet starting next fall.

Sophomore Joanne Hull received nothing but praise for the fine work she did in running the recent elections. They appear
to have been the smoothest in recent memory and a far cry better than the fall election. SGA vice president
Bruce Brown is doing some work on improving the quality of the Senate visitation. He is also in charge of
the Residential Hall Council while Thom is interviewing candidates for academic vice-president.

The first Senate meeting opened with the swearing in of the six new members. The body of the meeting was
an open-ended discussion of possible new areas of action. Several ideas were: looking closely at ARA Services (since their contract
is up for renewal in the spring), revival of the Davidson National Print and Drawing Contest, and reevaluation of the
role of faculty advisors. Thom warned against “overshooting” with too ambitious projects and asked for firm commitments of the senators’
interest in particular projects. The next meeting will be Monday, January 16, at 8:30 pm in the Conference Room.

Thom impressed me from the first by his ability to listen. He has started off by running an open and
very diverse administration. Let’s hope the euphoria doesn’t vanish too soon.
