March 25, 1977

LOOK FOR NEWS on women’s tennis next week.

IMAC Report

(Irv Wilson)

The Davidsonian

Shuts out St. Andrews

Blazing Barr baffles batters

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

This past week the Wildcat baseball team had a four-game winning streak. The streak was led by senior Tim Barr’s
pitching performance in two games.

The first was an impressive Cat win of 22-0 over St. Andrews. Barr, who is basically a power pitcher, hurled
the ball past most of the St. Andrews hitters. This was evident in the shut-out as Barr struck out 14
of the St. Andrews batters. In so doing, he allowed only three hits. Barr has always been an asset to
the Wildcat baseball program. As a freshman he posted a 1-1 record. His sophomore year he pitched in seven games
and tallied an impressive 6-1 record.

Last year was unfortunate for the junior hurler, as a knee injury put him out of action early in the
season. Despite the injury, he managed to pitch a 3-3 record. Knee surgery over the summer has corrected the injury
and the senior “ace” of the Cat staff seems to be at 100 percent.

The senior’s experience showed through this week in a second win led by Barr. This was an impressive 4-1 victory
over last year’s Southern Conference Champion, Furman University. Barr allowed only four hits as he consistently kept Furman’s hitters off-stride.
He did this by moving his pitches around and by varying the speed of his pitches.

This kept Furman’s hitters guessing and was instrumental in the conference win. This week’s victories move Barr’s personal record to
an impressive 4-2 record.

Joining Barr in this week’s victories was the strong pitching of sophomore Ron Cannon and junior Tim Purcell. Cannon, a
strong “southpaw” led the Cats to a 7-6 victory over Lenoir-Rhyne. Purcell threw an impressive 2-0 shutout in the second
game of the double-header with Furman.

Purcell is a strong fastball pitcher who also has an excellent curve-ball. The strength of both of these pitchers was
seen in the Furman game as Purcell allowed only two hits.

Coach Palmer Muench had this to say about the Cats’ three starting pitchers, “All three pitchers, and particularly Barr, have
thrown well all season, but it wasn’t until recently that the team’s defense has consistently supported the staff.”

Muench feels the defense has finally come around and because of this, combined with the excellent pitching, the team should
continue to have success.

Rain clouds many a game

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

This year has been a most frustrating one for the team of Bad Bernard and Hogman. Both of our teams
got knocked out of the tourney, and then to put the icing on the cornbread, those Roads Scholars from down
on Highway 49, better known as UNC-Carowinds, have taken our reservations at the Peachtree Plaza.

If Chad Kinch continues to play like the missing link and Cornflake keeps bringing the ball upcourt, we may be
reading about pep bands and airport receptions for the next ten years.

It has been a wet week at D.C. so a majority of games have been rained out. However, there are
several of note: Off Again continued their winning tradition by whipping the freshmen War Kiwis 11-6.

Wood’s Hole downed Wee Willy and the Wahoos 9-4 as Sikes McCord showed that the W’s on his hat stood
for Wimp instead of Willy.

Those do-nothings of Embo finally won something as they kicked the Furry Little Animals 23-10. Pat Hickert struck out twice
in a row on six straight pitches but the Fiji’s ignored him and beat One Track Mind 7-3.

The Cannonballs let their pre-season press go to their heads and barely nipped Emanon 7-6 while Rock and Roll Sunoco
showed that alcohol and winning often go hand in hand as they slowed Buck’s Truck Stop 15-4.

The Gozinyas buried Last Rites 14-4, the Brewers crushed Sigma Phi Nothing 18-3, M&M exploited the Hickies 27-2, the Flaming
A’s shutout Night Train Express 10-0 and the KA’s humbled 4th Richardson 14-0.

It has been a past tradition at Davidson that every spring the IMAC all-stars play the Davidson JV’s. Seeing that
there is no junior varsity, the illustrious red team of the varsity, those creatures who never play in games, has
accepted the challenge.

The game, tentatively scheduled for 7:30 in Johnston Gym on April 12th, should be a sellout so get your tickets
early.

IMAC all-stars this year will be eight chosen by John Wooden and four other candidates chosen at large. The eight
are: Rob Murray, John McArthur, Dick Myrick, Charlie Taylor, Adrian Wilson, Mike Peskosky, Cory Young and Rick Harhart.

Y’all get to select the other four so send your ballots to “Hogman”, Box 1755, Davidson. You don’t want to
miss this first annual Bad Bernard-Hogman benefit game—see you there. Later.

Sports Happenings

Friday, March 25, 1977
2 pm Men’s Tennis at East Carolina

Saturday, March 26, 1977
2:30 pm Baseball with Western Carolina at D.C. (2)
1 pm Men’s Tennis at Atlantic Christian
1 pm Sailing at Old Dominion, Norfolk, Va.
1 pm Track at Atlantic Coast Relays in Raleigh

Monday, March 28, 1977
2 pm Men’s Tennis with East Stroudsburg at D.C.
2 pm Women’s Tennis with N.C. State at Davidson

Tuesday, March 29, 1977
2 pm Tennis with M.I.T. at Davidson
2 pm Track with Appalachian at Davidson
3 pm Baseball with Guilford at Greensboro

Wednesday, March 30, 1977
2 pm Men’s Tennis with North Carolina at D.C.
3 pm Baseball with Madison at Davidson

Thursday, March 31, 1977
2 pm Men’s Tennis with Bucknell at Davidson
2 pm Women’s Tennis at Pfeiffer
