— Vol. LXVII, No. FIVE. Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 October 7, 1977

Students’ checks plague merchants
By STEPHEN GOLD
Staff Writer

Bad checks are giving Davidson College students an untrustworthy reputation in the Davidson-Mooresville community, and soon students will be forced
to carry more cash, says Chairman of the SGA Bad Check Committee Bill Peeples. In an affront to the Code
of Responsibilities, students are now more than ever writing checks that fail to clear the bank, and businesses in the
area are becoming concerned.

The bad check problem has been around since students were originally given the privilege of writing checks without identification requirements.
The administration never became alarmed at the average of three bad checks per term and would pay the students’ bills
until the students could pay the administration back. But starting in January 1977, when King Sirloin in Mooresville received five
bad checks, “the situation became more intense,” Peeples remembers. By the time spring arrived, the SGA deemed it necessary to
take appropriate action against the sudden rise in bouncing checks, and a standing committee, the Bad Check Committee, was formed.

SOME DAVIDSON and area businesses are now wary of cashing students’ checks.
[Hunter Jennings]
[see CHECKS, page 2]

Committee alters extended studies
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The Educational Policy Committee (EPC) has presented a proposed revision of the Extended Studies Policy to the faculty for a
vote on Tuesday. The proposal recommends:

1. That every department offer an Independent Study or Tutorial listing open to students in any class or any major.
The Committee’s reasons: Many projects now undertaken under Extended Studies might appropriately be given departmental names, thus making a transcript
more accurate. Further, departmental control of independent projects might result in better supervision of both teaching load and project quality.

2. That Extended Studies for juniors and seniors be abolished (301 and 401), and that each department or program submit
to the Educational Policy Committee any suggested revision for major requirements.
The Committee’s reasons: The 301-401 programs are already under departmental control, as they should be. The program, as now mandated,
seems to ask a consistency among departmental requirements which may place unwarranted limits upon programs which the departments now require
of their majors. It is not the intention of the EPC with this recommendation to reduce the number of courses
required for graduation.

3. That Extended Studies for freshmen and sophomores be continued for projects and seminars that do not fall within departmental
frameworks. Extended Studies projects will be evaluated only on a pass-fail basis, and students may register for no more than
one such course per year. Faculty members may assume responsibility for no more than three such projects per year.
The Committee’s reasons: Under the Extended Studies Program, worthwhile projects and seminars have been taken which do not fit neatly
within departmental structures. The Committee feels, though not without dissent, that such opportunities should be available within the constraints of
faculty time and faculty expertise. In expectation that such projects will be supervised outside of departmental constraints, the Committee recommends
that grading be on a pass-fail basis.

4. That the catalog lists the following: Interdisciplinary Study: Courses and seminars of interdisciplinary study for which no available departmental
listing is appropriate. The course or seminar proposed must be approved in advance of its offering by the faculty sponsor(s),
the departments involved, and the faculty.
The Committee’s reasons: Such a listing will encourage the development of interdisciplinary courses, but will assure that any such course
will have the approval of the faculty.Proposal by saying: In reviewing portions of the curriculum, in particular the Extended Studies
program, the Committee on Educational Policy has been emphatic on three points:

1. The desirability of independent study options available to all students;
2. The insistence that all faculty sponsors of such projects have both the time and the expertise to sponsor a
project suitable to a liberal arts curriculum; and
3. The placing of the initiative for work upon a motivated student, not on one who may, whether accurately or
not, see an independent project as an easy grade.

Both Academic Vice President and Chairman of the EPC Price Zimmerman and former EPC member and Chairman of the Extended
Studies Committee Hansford Epes expect the proposal will go into effect in September.

College slices NIH
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

On the advice of the college’s legal counsel, President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. has authorized a cutback in a Federally-funded
internship program for Davidson students at the National Institute of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Spencer has limited the program’s budget
to $9500 in order to avoid the requirement of signing certain government forms which must be initialed by the college
if the budget exceeds $10,000. In the past, the college has signed the contract for upwards of $30,000.

College Counsel Larry Dagenhart explained that those government forms “would appear to require an affirmative action program in hiring and
other areas. They would appear to require that Davidson do some things it might not want to do or might
not be able to do.”

The internship program, which is coordinated through the Office for Experiential Programs, allows students to work and research at the
Institute during a term or a summer and receive $1000 to $1200 from the government for their efforts. Dagenhart further
explained the college's reluctance to sign the forms required by the government. “The forms are broader than the law and
subject to the interpretation of government agencies,” he said. He indicated that the language of the forms is sometimes unclear
and that the cutback decision is a reflection of “honesty and uncertainty”—honesty because the college does not want to submit
itself to any type of affirmative action program, and uncertainty over the intent behind some of the language in the
forms. “As lawyers we take a conservative approach to these matters,” Dagenhart said.

“Traditionally we have not changed (curriculum) in the middle of the year,” said Epes. “Normally the departments let majors continue
in the program they started,” Zimmerman explained. Epes expects the proposal will go into effect in September.

[See EXTENDED, page 15]

Director of Experiential Programs Ken Wood says that 15 students have participated in the program since it began a year
and a half ago, and that all have found the internship to be a valuable personal and educational experience. The
NIH has interviewed and accepted more than a dozen Davidson students for this year’s internship program but Wood says that
with the $9500 limit no more than nine students will be able to participate in a given year. Wood fears
that the cutback may even jeopardize the entire program. “The people who head this program at NIH have communicated with
me their chagrin that we have limited the program to $9500.” He explained that the NIH must take into account
the administrative costs of making several trips a year here to interview students “and if they can think in terms
of interviewing and selecting a very few, it may not be in their best interests to continue.” Wood recognizes the
college’s reluctance to submit to any form of government encroachment, but believes that [See PROGRAM, page 2]
