March 11, 1977 The Davidsonian

Nurses voice frustrations on deficiencies

ERWIN 25 Editor

From bifocals to beds, the needs of other departments are being felt, said Mrs. Sherrill, supervisor of the Infirmary. The Infirmary often needs which are not being met. Over the past decade, the Infirmary has been overloaded with patients and does not have an elevator. 

"We've had patients who were about to collapse, stop and sit while climbing the stairs. They just don’t make it up the steps," commented Mrs. Christian, one of the registered nurses at the Infirmary. 

Caring for the patients and constantly walking up and down stairs during the day, when most of the patients are on the second floor, is exhausting. One nurse mentioned that during such times, they have to make over 50 trips per twelve-hour shift.

The planned Infirmary for the new doctors only needs to be built. The Infirmary's current form is the most pressing problem. As of now, it has to utilize the building for both the Infirmary and office for the new doctors. However, anticipated problems with parking have not yet found a solution. The administration has the money for a new building. 

The new building includes a dumbwaiter, new beds, a microscope, and a waiting room. Presently, Statesville Hospital alleviates many of the problems. If transportation can be arranged, Davidson can use their facilities. 

Having a full-time orderly is another improvement strongly needed, according to Mrs. Sherrill. "When the Infirmary was first built almost 40 years ago, the college felt the need for an orderly that worked 5½ days a week. At that time, there were between 600 and 800 students. Now that the college has over 1200 students, they evidently don’t feel the same needs," according to Mrs. Sherrill. 

There have been times when male students have fainted on the commode or in the shower, and the female staff sorely wished for a male orderly. Besides, said Sherrill, there are times when male students need to be given baths. An orderly is also needed to keep the Infirmary clean. At present, the nurses have to take time away from caring for patients to do menial cleaning chores. 

Mrs. Sherrill also stated that a secretary should be hired to come in for a short while every morning and type medical records. It is often difficult for one of the rotating doctors to know what to do for a patient that has already been seen by another doctor unless he has the medical record before him. At present, a secretary only comes in twice a week, on Sundays and Thursdays. Because of this, the records are usually out of date, according to Mrs. Sherrill.

There are also needs in the physical structure itself. There are just not enough private rooms. When patients who are very ill have to be put in the same ward as patients who are almost well, they suffer, said Mrs. Sherrill. The students who are feeling better want to watch television and listen to the radio while the very sick need quiet.

Another bathroom is needed upstairs. The offices need to be refurbished. A second examination room is needed to replace the makeshift room now being used, in which an x-ray table is being adapted as an examination table, said Mrs. Sherrill. Most of the beds and mattresses are forty years old. The mattress springs are shot. The nurses have asked for a new microscope without getting it. 

"We think we are doing an excellent job considering our circumstances," said Mrs. Christian. Despite having these complaints, the nurses stressed that they enjoyed their work, that they had good rapport among one another, and good communication with Dean Terry.

"We don’t need to duplicate X-ray equipment when we have it seven miles away. You also have to have a trained radiologist to read the X-rays right," says Terry. These improvements depend upon funding. As Terry says, "The only thing stopping us is the money."us is money.” The Infirmary will maintain the same operating budget as last year. It has no capital budget. The administration explains the delay in infirmary improvement funding. Terry says, “I would like the new doctors to be a part of the retooling of infirmary funds. They will be in a better position to do so.” Spencer adds, “When we do it, we want to do it right.”

Many improvements are already needed, but patients only want to sleep.

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Anyone who has stayed in the Infirmary knows the facility is inadequate. Whether their complaint be the rotation of doctors leading to conflicting diagnoses or uncomfortable bedding, they come out of the Infirmary with tales which discourage their friends from even going when necessary. What we have is a problem far greater than an inadequate Infirmary. The problem is attitudinal.

Once again we have a budget priority problem. Just as they work in an outdated chemistry building, suffer the inconvenience of overcrowding and insufficient resources, students face the same issues with the Infirmary. When the administration fails to allocate funds for improvement, they either go to Charlotte or receive no medical aid. Naturally, they infect the rest of the students around them.

The administration is guilty of similar laziness. “Things are going to be better in 1978,” they say. We're all very happy for the students of ’78. We all hope they receive sufficient health care. What are the students of ’77 supposed to do in the meantime? It seems when we can find people interested in funding a radio station, we could try just as hard to find someone to give to the Infirmary. After all, we’re only talking about the health of the student body.

The promise of utopian ’78 becomes almost a deterrent to improvement because it provides an easy escape route. Any request for improvement is postponed to ’78 when “things will be better.” And the promise for some improvement also alleviates the pressure for extensive improvement. We are going to get new doctors, but what about new beds? What about a new building? We are too easily satisfied.

Attitude problem exceeds facility's

So now students must do without sufficient health care. The least we could do would be to say something. The Huntersville doctors are leaving in May and do not have to worry about contract renewal, but they could be reminded by the administration of the responsibilities they owe to their present contract. And students in '77 have the right to demand decent health care. Even if they do not get it because of the inflexibility of funding, they should at least voice their complaints. Dr. Spencer was not even aware the Infirmary needed new beds. The lack of communication is the result of irresponsibility on both the students’ and the administration's parts. As a matter of principle, it is better to say something than give up before the fight. It would be more productive than infecting an entire dorm.