The Davidsonian
February 4, 1977

By MARK RABIL
Staff Writer

Last week the Campus Life Council voted to recommend to President Spencer that the evolution towards totally coeducational eating houses
on Patterson Court be encouraged. This “social ideal,” however, cannot be brought into reality immediately or forced onto students because
not everybody is ready for it. There are many students who still feel the need for unisex eating houses. Although
these students are probably in the minority, the Council affirmed its belief that they have a “right and privilege for
social options.” That is, eating houses which cater to the needs of one sex in “pattern or philosophy” should be
allowed at Davidson.

The Council’s recommendation provides for the evolution towards the goal of totally coeducational houses by taking affirmative action against any
house which practices discrimination of any sort. Houses which cater to unisex needs should be allowed to continue, but the
right of any student to join any house should be protected. In effect, when unisex houses are ready to provide
for coeducational needs they will not be prevented from doing so but actually encouraged by this principle of non-discrimination. The
students will themselves determine when unisex houses are no longer necessary.

If the present system on Patterson Court is allowed to remain as it is then “Self Selection” will remain meaningless
and women students will continue to be discriminated against. At present, three all-male eating houses practice discrimination not only against
women but other men. The violations of the spirit and letter of self-selection are well-known. Discrimination against women students is
seen in the Patterson Court By-Laws, trustee sentiment, and actual practice.

The By-Laws (a trustee document called Social Organizations at Davidson College) state that when starting a new eating club priority
shall always be given to “new coeducational groups, with women members in rough proportion to the percentage of women students
enrolled.” This phrase was interpreted for the Council as being a measure to ensure that women students would not be
discriminated against by the all-male eating houses of pre-coeducational days. The trustees never took into account that a group of
women might possibly want to start an all-female eating house. In fact, women are discriminated against by the By-Laws and
other documents in that priority is always to be given to a coeducational group in such statements as “No new
group practicing sexual discrimination will be granted the use of a house” (implying that old groups are allowed to do
so).

Clouds cover college

Davidson College might spend $50,000 on WDAV. They plan to build a golf course. They renovated the guest house luxuriously.
They put down expensive brick sidewalks. The Martin Science Building is falling apart. The Infirmary is outdated. The Davidson National
has been cancelled. The library needs more books. We do not have enough dorm space for the number of students.
We do not have adequate eating facilities. We should have an Anthropology and a Geology course. The Spanish department needs
a larger staff.

Davidson College officials have put so much energy into raising money for the future that they have neglected our education
in the present. We realize that a college in the 1977 American educational system has to consist of more than
students and teachers and knowledge. It has to become a business. We are not so far away in the clouds
of “youthful idealism” to understand the role of money. But the administration has drifted so far in the business clouds
that it is no longer receptive to the needs of the students (Dr. Spencer was not even aware that students
were upset over the WDAV changes). And they keep the students in the clouds by not informing them of major
educational decisions being considered without them. (The Extended Studies question is supposed to be a secret.) With the secrecy and
lack of communication, maybe we should rename our institution the Davidson Corporation rather than Davidson College. Maybe we should assume
Davidson is in a condition of desperation. We're all very happy the Davidson student ten years from now will receive
such a phenomenal education. We are not at all pleased that our education has fallen so far short of what
it should be.

The Davidsonian
Bill Barnett
Kevin Shelly
Susan Colan
Executive Editor
News Editors
Features Editor
Sports Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Special Projects Editor
Production Manager
Managing Editors
Business Manager
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson
Photography Editors
Advertising Manager
John Kravet
Circulation Manager

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.Years ago, expressed sentiment in favor of the
continued existence of the present all-male eating houses. In actual practice, the college has allowed three all-male eating houses to
continue discriminating against women. This combination of the By-Laws’ prevention of an all-female eating house, and trustee sentiment and actual
practice in favor of only all-male eating houses causes discrimination against women students. If the council had decided to recommend
that all houses be forced to become coeducational, there would have been not only some very “hard feelings” but, more
importantly, discrimination against the significant minority of students who feel the need for houses which cater to the needs of
one sex. Making all the houses coeducational would have necessitated an affirmative action plan with quota systems imposed on the
present unisex houses. A forced spirit of coeducation cannot work in the eating houses; it is something which must be
gradually accepted by those who feel the need for the support and interaction with their unisex group. The Council’s most
reasonable position was to support self-selection and to recommend that the college allow unisex houses. To support self-selection, the Council
approved an affirmative action plan to prevent discrimination against men or women. This plan calls for a subcommittee of the
Council to be appointed to look into any alleged violations of self-selection and that “any house that continues to violate
the By-Laws should have its rights to a house on Patterson Court examined.” The Council also saw the need for
all three social options (coeducational, all-male, and all-female) to be allowed if there was to truly be self-selection from a
number of alternatives and non-discrimination against women. Thus, the only alternative in assigning Rusk House was to give it to
the women’s group.

Over the last week, I have heard three main objections to the Council’s decision:

1) Isn’t giving the women an eating house a backward step from the goal of coeducation? No, the women’s group
has repeatedly stated that it will not discriminate against men even though its purpose is to cater to the needs
of women. They have also expressed a desire to eventually go coeducational when the women who now feel the need
for the support or friendship with other women no longer feel that way.

2) How can a women’s eating house serve the needs of all the women on campus? The purpose of this
eating house is not to unify or cater to the needs of all the women, but to serve that minority
of women who feel the need for this type of support—in the same way that all-male houses have their reasons.

3) What is to prevent this house from turning into a sorority? Legally, nothing. As with the present national fraternities,
a sorority could develop within this house. However, the women’s group has stated that they are not looking for the
same type of “unity” that a sorority exudes. Really, none of these three objections needs to be answered as long
as all-male eating houses are allowed to continue without justifying themselves.

Another important recommendation of the Council was that the Patterson Court By-Laws should be completely revised. If there had been
an adequate document from the first, none of these decisions would have held up the assigning of Rusk House and
neither of the groups would have been in the dark for so long. Among some of the other specific recommendations
for change are that “blocking” into eating houses by groups starting new clubs be allowed and that “waiting lists” for
entrance into the eating houses after vacancies arise should be kept by the Dean’s office to prevent discrimination after the
self-selection procedure. Although I agree wholeheartedly with the decisions of the Council, I must add that I feel very badly
for Rob Payne’s group of freshmen. They were led to believe from the beginning of the year that they would
automatically be given Rusk House.

---

Sports goof

To the Editor:

In the midst of your article on the upcoming “Davidson Country Club,” you incorrectly reported that the swimming team lost
two meets over the previous weekend. The fact of the matter is that Old Dominion was crushed by the swimmers
and William and Mary won on the last event of the meet. We have come to expect mediocre reporting and
lack of coverage of all minor sports while being enticed with articles about such matters as Tony Snow's newspaper which
was never started and the earth-shattering news that Daytona Beach has both sun and girls. It seems to me that
if The Davidsonian doesn’t have the energy or manpower to send a reporter to find out the correct scores of
athletic events, they ought to retire from the business and stick to harassing the cops. Thank you for everything, and
maybe this week you can give us two full pages of action shots of basketball games instead of one. This
is just personal opinion, of course.

Mts. Kinbeten ’78
Davidson College
