_Se 29, 1977 git .aLinden speaks [Continued from page 1] was. That was something of a surprise for me, since
it is not something I’ve been asked in previous job interviews. I’m not sure of the chronology of it, whether
it was after that he said do you have any problems with our orientation, or something like that. He made
it clear that it was an important issue.”

S: Did he specify what he meant by problems with it?

L: “What he meant was, would I feel comfortable holding a job, and teaching in a place that had this
orientation. Could I live in a community of this sort.”

Support procedures?

S: Did he ask you specifically if you would support Davidson’s hiring procedures?

L: “He didn’t ask me, because I could not have in good conscience said yes. The exchange did take place
in our letters.”

S: What form did the letter from Spencer offering you the job take?

L: “Begins a standard way, offered me the contract, specified the salary, it was an offer of a job—it specified
that a portion of my moving expenses would be paid. Then it said we expect you to engage in other
activities, advising, duties to the college—that’s a positive thing. Then it said, we discussed at great length in our interviews,
the Christian orientation of the school, and the key sentence—he said in his second letter—was that you should not accept
the job unless you seek to...(direct quote from letter): ‘Only if you genuinely want to join such a community and,
as the By-Laws state, care to conscientiously uphold and seek to increase the college’s effectiveness as a church-related college.’”

Interpretation

S: How did you interpret that line, and did you consult anyone else about how it might apply to you?

L: “I did not think that I could accept the job with the conditions the By-Laws seem to mandate, and
in fact in the past have mandated, or produced, a discriminatory hiring and promotion.

“In that sense, I responded directly to the President’s invitation about whether or not I could support or uphold those
By-Laws. My paragraph was a response to that invitation from the President. Let me stop interviewing and speak normally. It
was evidently clear to the President in his letter that he sought to clarify this issue between us. I was
glad he did, because I felt it was necessary on my part to clarify how I felt. That to be
hired by a school did not mean I relinquished my freedom to oppose such policies which I view as improper.
Use that in the story if you wish.”

S: Did you consult anyone else on how his letter was phrased and how that might affect you?

L: “No.”

S: In your initial interview with Spencer, did you discuss tenure at all?

L: “There are really three processes that went on here. First, the recognition of what those policies would mean that
began to occur in the President’s office by his pressing them home. Second, the discovery afterward that there were no
Jews on the faculty, in a faculty of 100, at a major college, nor had there ever been. And third,
the President’s reiteration of this policy in his letter; in his statement that the Trustees take this very seriously. All
of that, I felt obliged to indicate my views on this matter in my letter back to him.”

Discussion on tenure

S: Did Spencer say that it was unlikely you would be tenured?

L: “I can’t remember. I left with the impression that that was the case. I cannot remember whether any exact
statement or not occurred. The key question is not whether I, Ron Linden, could or could not have gotten tenure.
The key question is what sort of criteria would have been considered during my time there; how would I be
evaluated during my time there, would I be evaluated as a scholar, as a teacher, as a person who gave
service to the college, or would another criteria, a personal criteria, be involved? The answer is clear.”

Six-week span

S: There was a six-week span between the job offer and your acceptance. Why so long?

L: “I had to consider the offer and consider the conditions included in the President’s letter.”

S: Apparently there was one particular paragraph in the letter you wrote back to accept the job offer that made
Spencer feel he needed to consult with the college lawyer. Would you read that paragraph?

L: “With respect to the college By-Laws, which mandate or encourage discriminatory hiring and promotion practices, I should make clear
my strong opposition to such policies as morally repugnant, socially anachronistic, and scholastically unwise. During my time at Davidson I
will strongly support any movement to eliminate such laws and practices. I welcome this and other responsibilities to the college
community and hope to make a contribution towards ensuring the high scholastic standing of Davidson College.”

S: How long was it between your letter of acceptance and Spencer's withdrawal of the offer?

L: “About two weeks.”

S: What form did that letter, the one withdrawing the job, take?

Acceptance disputed

L: “He said that my response did not constitute an acceptance, because I failed to accept the key condition of
his offer, being the upholding and strengthening of the college policies. So he said first your acceptance is not an
acceptance. And second he said ‘Given all the circumstances we are withdrawing our offer. It is an unfortunate situation.’”for us
both.’ “I would add that I agree.”

S: Did you see it as a non-acceptance when you wrote your letter to him?

L: “I saw it as a qualified acceptance.”

S: And you did not consult legal help.

L: “No. I wanted to make clear my opposition to college policies, and make it clear that I would work
to change them once I was there.”

S: Between the time you accepted and Spencer rescinded, were you consulted?

L: “No. No phone call or letter.”

S: You turned down some offers in the meantime?

L: “That is not relevant.”

S: How did he word the withdrawal?

L: “There were two separate aspects to his letter. The first was the statement that my contract, my response, in
his view, and the legal view as you’ve heard, did not constitute, as he put it, an acceptance. Then, in
addition, he said, in the last sentence, ‘Given all the circumstances, we withdraw’ (not exact wording).”

Anticipated response

S: When you wrote this response, did you have even an inkling of what kind of response you might get?

L: “Yes, I can honestly say that it did cross my mind, that this might make some people upset. It
crossed my mind, but not enough to make me not do it.”

S: What was your initial response? Have you gotten in contact with anyone here?

L: “No.”

S: What was your own personal response to the withdrawal?

L: “If you've been the victim of discrimination, your first reaction is astonishment, that institutions would act in this way.
And you feel slapped in the face because you feel personally hurt. When it became clear to me what the
circumstances were, and this issue came out, it was put to me and I understood that the situation would be—I
can’t think of saying it another way—a second-class citizen. It astonished me.”

Discriminatory hiring

S: You were aware of this from your first meeting with Spencer?

L: “Yes, I was. Well, let me put it this way. I was aware that as far as the President
was concerned, the college policies mandated this discriminatory hiring and promotional practice. And then when I read the letter, which
reiterated the question about tenure, he declared that my situation would be one in which I would be promoted or
not promoted, considered for tenure or not considered for tenure, not on the basis of my scholarly ability or academic
record, but that my religion would prevent me from being considered. My religion would be the overriding concern and there
was no way around it.

“And I feel as outraged as a black person might, as a woman might have felt, in the face of
having a nonrelevant criterion to judge me. I also want to reiterate what I said earlier that in no way
was this coming from anyone in the department, it was not discussed, it was certainly not a criterion. The people
there struck me as being absolutely first-rate, otherwise I would not have accepted the job. They recognize it as a
nonrelevant criterion, but obviously there are some people who don’t.”

Campus treatment fair

S: Were you made to feel discriminated against while here by anyone on campus?

L: “No, certainly not. For the purposes of hiring and promotion solely.”

S: Are you aware of the student and faculty support you've received?

L: “Yes.”

S: What is your response to this support?

L: “I wish them luck.”

S: Did you know Davidson was a Christian-oriented school when you applied initially?

L: “No.”

S: Why did you not check the background out?

L: “You must be kidding! Would you like to hear the ad in the American Political Science Association Newsletter which
describes the job?”

S: Sure.

L: “(From the Newsletter): DAVIDSON COLLEGE. Seeking instructor or assistant professor in above areas to begin September, 1977. Ph.D. required.
Teaching load: two courses per term, the academic year consists of. Salary: competitive. Equal opportunity employer. Send vitae, transcript, and
letters of reference...”

S: What are your plans both legally and otherwise?

L: “I am happy to be able to say that I have subsequently been offered and have accepted a teaching
position at the University of Pittsburgh. Legally, I am seeking advice.”

AAUP

L: “The AAUP approached me. They saw the story in the Washington Post. We sort of mutually got in touch
with each other. Joseph Swartz contacted me. The status is that I am sending in the relevant communications, and they
are going to review the situation. Probably they will begin the review immediately upon receipt of the information from me.”

National coverage

S: What have your reactions been to the national coverage?

L: “I've been very busy. I feel it is appropriate.”

S: Would you say that any of the coverage put this issue in an anti-Semitic light?

L: “No. That’s not really the issue. I wouldn’t say that’s what it was, I wouldn’t characterize it as such,
and I wouldn’t want anyone to ascribe those statements to me at all.”

S: Want to add anything?

L: “No, just that I feel very sad about the way it worked out. I realize the job represented freedom
to do what I saw as wrong or to speak out against what was wrong.”
