The Davidsonian

January 28, 1977

By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

Two hundred and fifty-eight men and women from North Carolina and Florida have been nominated for the first Edward Crosland
Stuart Scholarships.

Twelve will be chosen as Stuart Scholars. From those twelve, two will be given a grant regardless of need in
the amount of $3000. The other ten will each be given a $500 grant.

Dean of Admissions H. Edmunds White said that the purpose of the program was "to attract some truly outstanding people
who might not otherwise consider Davidson."

These students were nominated by their high school principals and headmasters and now must go through a screening process that
will select 36 students to go on to district competition.

On the district level, each candidate is interviewed and twelve candidates are selected for the final competition which will be
held at Davidson in late March. Final decisions will be announced around April 1.

According to the pamphlet describing the scholarship, the qualities of a Stuart Scholar are "Christian character, scholastic achievement, leadership, ambition,
physical vigor."

White indicated that the program will be reevaluated in the spring. At that time, the Board of Directors will consider
whether or not to expand the program to other states and also decide whether or not to increase the number
of scholars selected.

The Stuart Scholarship has often been compared to the Morehead Scholarship program at the University of North Carolina.

When asked if the elitism that often characterizes the Morehead Scholarship will be a feature of the program at Davidson,
White said, "In all the discussions that I’ve been involved in there has been no mention of it. I’m satisfied
that in my estimation it won’t happen," he said.

Regarding the question of financial need, White indicated that he had some reservations about the fact that the program awards
scholarships regardless of need.

But he defended the program, comparing it to the basketball scholarships, which are not necessarily awarded on the basis of
need.

---

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE DRAMA DEPARTMENT PRESENTS

Two Comedies

Noel Coward’s "Ways and Means"
Alberto Perrini’s "Once a Thief"
Thursday, February 3 in the Drama Workshop
Admission $1 at the door

---

SGA irons out media board

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

During a very intense meeting, the Senate elected junior Bert Downs and sophomore Greg Hankins to the Student Media Board.

The Media Board Screening Committee had earlier reviewed several candidates, approved Downs, Hankins, and Philip Duncan for Senate consideration.

Calling the Media Board, "awful damn important," SGA President Thom Young asked Screening Committee Chairman Jeff Sich to explain his
committee’s work. The Board will oversee all student publications and WDAV and will set important precedents for future boards.

The Board will consist of nine members; at least three of which will be students. Matthew Covington, chosen by the
Publications Board, is the other student representing student media. Three members will be picked from the college at large and
three will be from the administration and faculty.

Two issues aroused a great deal of debate in the Senate. One issue involved charges of conflict of interest involving
Downs who works for WDAV and Duncan who is Co-News Editor of The Davidsonian. The Senate decided a conflict of
interest would only involve an editor-in-chief applying for a seat on the Board.

Lynn Langley ('79) charged that the Screening Committee acted improperly in rejecting certain candidates. She made the motion that the
election of the Board members be tabled.

The motion was defeated 10 to 7.

Percy Badham (Belk), member of the Screening Committee, said the ideal representative for the Media Board would be an "open-minded,
common sense" type person.

Downs, who was elected with 12 votes, wants the new group to establish a "responsible code of conduct."

Hankins, seated with 13 votes, would like to see the Board’s jurisdiction extended to cover all college publications.

Freshman Tom Mahoney was chosen by the Senate Executive Committee to become the SGA Chancellor, replacing Sam Crawford. Crawford, who
was praised by Hans Watford (Sentelle) as, "one of the most efficient people I’ve met in my life," is resigning
to devote time to other projects.

Due to the length of the meeting stemming from the Media Board controversy, discussion of Senate committee goals was postponed
until next week.
