January 21, 1977 The Davidsonian

A committee to evaluate security

Davidson Police Dept.

"I’ve talked with Grover five times. He’s physically the security chief and, actually, Chief of Police for the town of
Davidson. The police saw I was serious— it was like we immediately became good buddies. The students can help the
police by changing attitudes on campus. The more they can help, which means educate rather than manipulate or dictate. He
said, 'We’re not looking for names of people who have been burned. We’re going to get the facts out. Most
students don’t know these robberies are taking place. We would like it to the point where if somebody gets robbed,
we’ll know as much as possible, if the victim wants to offer the information.

The problem is that we have areas which anybody can get onto. Students ought to stop and think—they can be
a target. A lot of times, in the shadows, there are some dark areas: by Watts, especially right now between
Carnegie Hall and Little Dorm. The officers are out on foot. Right now we’re having communications problems, because we only
have one walkie-talkie. When two officers separate for some reason or another, they have no way of talking to one
another."

Suffers from theft. Dave Keller take your stereo while you’re eating or at a ball game. It’s the people with
idealistic attitudes who are going to get burned. Idealism is fine, but some people have their heads in the clouds.

One area where the Senate security council can serve its educational function, as Watford sees it, is in correcting prevalent
student misconceptions concerning rape phones. He noted that "most people think they’re the kind that work just by knocking the
receiver off the wall. They’re not. It’s hard to describe a guy’s eye color over the phone while you’re being
raped." Watford favors installation of the more efficient phones which demand less than a superhuman effort on the part of
the rapee. In general, however, Watford admits that in the area of changing students’ overtrusting attitudes toward security his work
is cut out for him. "Changing the attitudes of students on, say, locking doors will be tough in view of
the open campus idea which I personally feel is one of Davidson’s most attractive features. We’re not insulting anyone here.
Everyone knows my door is locked, but that doesn’t mean it’s closed to friends."

Outlining general security council plans, Watford added, "we’re going to come up with some recommendations, talk to Will Terry, and
then present our recommendations to Grover Meetze. He’s willing to adjust police finances in order to work our recommendations, if
they’re good enough, into the budget, and even to scrap all existing security programs and start over. The police are
serious about helping.

"After the recommendation stage and hopefully some implementation, we’re going to keep an eye on the police, evaluate their effectiveness,
and make sure they’re keeping their promises. Just knowing that we’re checking them out ought to help. We've got to
face facts. The fact is that there is a security problem on campus. What we want to do is first
find out how grave a problem we're dealing with."

Still, wary of overdramatization this early in the Senate’s investigation, Watford added, "We don't want to blow it out of
proportion, but neither do we want to minimize it. We hope to come up with suggestions and recommendations to alleviate
these problems and in this regard we're looking for student input and ideas. The problem isn’t rampant, but I'll tell
you, if we don’t do something, it soon will be rampant."

Town crime rises; force expands

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Asst. News Editor

In spite of a surge of crime in Davidson over the past six months, local police officials are not alarmed.
Break-ins at the Peregrine House, Etcetera, Pika, the Davidson Bookstore, and an armed robbery at Parks Drugs have all occurred
since August. But Davidson Chief of Police R. H. Mills says this crime wave is simply a phase of a
"cycle." He explained, "You have this rash of break-ins that seem to run in cycles. In the last six months,
we’ve been hit harder than ordinarily; but this kind of thing (crime wave) may not happen again for a year.
You just have to stay on your toes and dothe very best you can.” When asked why he thought Davidson
was suffering through such a corrupt period, Mills replied, “Well, this is Christmas holidays; you usually have more of it
during holidays, you might say from October through January. You usually have more (crime) then than you do any other
time of the year. In the spring of the year they don’t seem to be as bad.”

The Davidson Police Department, without a detective division, is forced to hand a good deal of their investigations over to
the Mecklenburg County Police Department and other departments in the surrounding area. In most cases, the stolen property is not
recovered, especially the cash. Nancy Kennedy, store manager of Ecetera, also doubts that the clothes stolen from that store on
January 5 will be recovered. She expressed the reasons for her doubts, “The police say that when things like that
happen, they (the thieves) take it out of state. They don’t sell it locally, because then maybe they could get
caught. There's a lot of stores that would carry the same line, because Levi and Wrangler are brand names, and
also Male. They took a lot of Male jackets.”

In that particular case, there was some confusion as to whether the alarm had sounded. Kennedy said that the police
had told her that the alarm didn’t sound when Ecetera was broken into. However, when the crime lab arrived, they
found that the battery which powers the alarm was so hot that it couldn’t be handled without gloves, indicating that
the alarm had been on for quite some time. Mills said that the officer who discovered the break-in did not
hear the alarm at all, but merely saw the damage in the rear of the store during a routine check
about 3:45 am. When asked for his answer to the controversy, Mills explained that the alarm probably was on, but
some malfunction kept it from ringing. He could not say whether the malfunction was tampered with or just a coincidence.

Opinion
Open eyes needed
By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

The friend of a Davidson student arrived on campus unexpectedly one night at 3 am. He searched for 45 minutes
to find a security personnel for directions to the student’s off-campus, college-owned house. He finally found security. But the patrolman
did not even know the location of the house. He was trying to find security and could not. What if
he were a thief and weren’t trying?

Patrolmen relaxing in the snack bar, in their patrol cars, only contributes to our low-key security atmosphere. But do students
want it any other way? Evidence points to a general feeling of apathy among the students toward tightening security measures.
They leave doors open; they fail to lock windows; they walk alone to the post office at 2 am; they
do not bother to report thefts. They act in such a way as to say, “We go to Davidson, the
utopia where theft is a joke, rape is impossible, and the only time we think about the police is when
they pull us for D.U.I.”

Students are unaware of the possibility that something might happen. And students will not want more security until something does
happen. We have options. We could re-examine the Centrex phone system so any student could have immediate access to a
phone in case of emergency. We could install a better security phone system which could be activated by simply knocking
the receiver off the hook. We could go as far as setting up a desk-controlled system whereby non-students would be
checked in the lobby. These measures seem drastic. Do we want to sacrifice our present relaxed feeling for more intense
security? No. So how do we compromise?

Security can be tightened without instituting a prison. Patrolmen could do more patrolling. Students could lock their doors during games.
They could also begin a systemized watch over the halls during games and other campus-wide activities. But first they could
become aware. Before they are raped, robbed, or ripped off, they should at least think through what measures they want
to take before measures are implemented for them. The college cannot protect its students against their own stupidity.

SOME STUDENTS feel security uses wheels more than feet. (Dave Keller)
