A we No one fights alone

The morale of the faculty is low. But what we students do not understand is that lack of communication stands
at the center of this problem. Too often professors vent their complaints by pulling students into their offices and telling
them “what’s wrong with this place.” They are, for the most part, complaining about the same things: lack of communication,
Mr. Hall’s extended term, too many curriculum restrictions, unclear tenure policies, too much administrative interference, inner-faculty bickering, dissatisfaction of frustrated
spouses, unfair budget priorities, etc. But they are complaining to the wrong people. Why doesn’t the faculty band together and
air their grievances to those people who are responsible for the problems?

It sounds naive. Certainly, jobs are at stake and naturally, everyone is powerless to fight against the great “They.” After
all, aren’t everyone’s hands tied? Yet we were pretty naive when we pushed for a change in the Christian Tenure
policy last spring. But naivete got us out of office doors and out in a position where we could affect
action.

As to the Christian tenure policy, we also know many faculty members are shocked, others are disgusted with the final
policy adopted by the trustees. They do not feel the policy was changed and feel the enacting statement directed to
the President ensures Davidson will remain as closed as it has always been. So, what now? Are we all going
to sit around and complain without taking any action to make the trustees live up to their promises?

The low morale, unfortunately, does not stem only from “forces” outside the faculty. Internal problems render the faculty just as
helpless. Some younger faculty members tell how older ones stifle their initiative. Apparently, there exists a hierarchy here about which
few students know. We understand pride may be involved; maybe there are factors we do not understand. We students, however,
cannot help but feel Davidson is too small and already too ingrown to perpetuate this kind of pettiness.

One thing that could help would be closer student-faculty relations. I, though frustrated, have enjoyed getting to know several professors
because of our ‘complaint sessions.” But never was the importance of faculty-student relations so evident to me as when I
was involved in an informal discussion with several professors last month. I felt it was nice for both sides to
feel accepted by the other as equals. Maybe we could begin Sunday night open houses again. Maybe we could hold
monthly receptions in the 900 Room. Maybe we could just break down a little and talk to each other. Faculty
members have too much to offer outside of class for students to ignore that resource and those friendships. And certainly,
the faculty needs support in this period of low morale. Because what we’re really trying to say is, “come out
of the office; we’re behind you.”

The Davidsonian

Catherine gic ses ce aie es ots te Tad Baie 5 Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair............. Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
PARTIED hc ces 07 vcore 00 0 cable vae a/bs8e bd Managing Editor
URIS 6 ies bce odes veo akan Photography Editor
IEE, 6h iris sco es vacee ee eee Production Manager
MMIII 5.00 -0.0s-5 9s piece « haa thes Caiee Business Manager
BUA NONOTE . 6 ore se ce ewe nire’s Advertising ManagerFOE, 5 536 5 soe 6 bs ov No ae
sce a ere ee TE Cartoonist NMI 6s" h os ec bd se e's cee eu ae Photographer UR ey
gps 5p ae Focus Editor RTI I inside Art Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address
all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

The Davidsonian

On the Edge

More on responsibility
By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

“Ralphy, I been thinkin’ heavy bout that responsibility stuff you mentioned last week. Member?” Ralphy looked up from his Howard
the Duck comic book, said, “Sure,” then went back to an analysis of metaphor. Well I saw he wasn’t gonna
help me with this one, lost as he was in mindless academia, so I just dug in and turned it
over for myself.

People aren’t real big on constancy these days, seems to me. Probly cause they’re used to just flippin’ a channel
when one image begins to bore or tire and they can even turn the damn set off if it gets
too tedious. The tube doesn’t demand a whole lotta commitment, in spite o’ what the commercial people might like to
hope. And I think the TV mind is outta the living room and loose on the streets, and that’s part
o’ the problem. Entertain ’em, don’t strain ’em.

Industry and commercials don’t help lots either. Things aren’t made to last any great mount o’ time. How long you
think Dupont spects a pair o’ textured double-knits to last? Mobiles are ta be traded in in 3 to 5
years. Imagine trade-in on your kid brother after 3 years. Commercials aren't too helpful; everybody’s always gettin’ stuff but they
aren’t ever takin’ care o’ it, ’cept to put some deodorant or toothpaste on. Takin’ care o’ whatcha got is
a demanding thing, but seems like we'd rather throw it out or farm it out for someone else to do.
Rest homes, condominiums, lawn care service, plastic silverware, paper napkins, fast food, undertakers. If ya can farm out all the
responsibilities for things ya can move on ta doin’ the same ta people. Ship ’em off to quiet rest homes,
change or exchange friends when they begin to be too familiar. Pay somebody else to clean up your mess, like
all them nice kids in the dorms do with the lounges every damn weekend. It’s always other people’s messes.

Ralphy threw down the comic book and my metaphysical bubble broke. “C’mon,” he said, “we’re gonna miss dinner. They stop
servin’ at 6:30.” “For sure, for sure.”

STEP says thanks
To the Editor:

Since so often one hears only the worst about fraternities, we'd like to do some praising. Monday afternoon the STEP
program held their Halloween party; and without the Fijis, we never could have pulled it off. They not only arranged
apple bobbing and supper, but also added a lot of cheer as they wandered from child to child helping the
pumpkin carving. We'd also like to thank the Black Student Coalition for their participation in setting up games. The party
was a huge success. And it was especially nice seeing so many Davidson students involved.

Meg Campbell and Jamie Watt
Co-Chairmen, STEP

With this issue The Davidsonian ceases publication until December 2, 1977.
