May 6, 1977

Professor of History W. T. Patterson prepared this Background to the Controversy on Christian Tenure Policy at Davidson College.

Faculty recruitment and tenure has been long and arduous. In the early 1960s, the By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson
College contained provisions which sharply limited the administration and faculty of the college in recruiting members of the faculty. Tenure
to be members of "some evangelical church." At least three quarters of the faculty had to be members of "some
branch of the Presbyterian Church." Furthermore, each full professor was inaugurated at Commencement following his first year of service in
a ceremony in which he was required to give affirmative answers to three theological questions.

As early as 1962, a group of professors who had already taken the "vow," as it was called, and all
of whom were Davidson graduates, requested the Trustees to modify these provisions of the By-Laws. After a great deal of
discussion among all interested parties, the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees proposed, in place of the inauguration ceremony,
a series of written questions to be administered to all ranks of the faculty aimed at eliciting an expression of
Christian commitment. This proposal, which was set forth in October 1964, was opposed by a large element of the faculty
and by some of the trustees. In its place, the Trustees approved, in April 1965, a restatement of the relevant
By-Law, according to which Davidson College was said to seek "as permanent members of its faculty only those who, in
addition to their academic qualifications, are committed to the Christian faith."

The issue of tenure arose again in the academic year 1968-69. President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. had appointed, in the
fall of 1968, a Study Commission on Davidson College’s Church Relationship, composed of students, faculty members, administrators, and trustees. One
of the questions that Commission concerned itself with was the college’s policy concerning faculty recruitment. In the course of its
work, the Commission solicited the views of students, faculty, and alumni. It asked department chairmen about their experiences in recruiting,
specifically whether the religious requirement for tenure had affected their ability to attract qualified candidates.

Criticism has arisen concerning the Senate’s handling of the tenure controversy. Mark Rabil, a member of the task force, commented,
"I think Lynn Langley and Ann Burke did a great job getting petitions signed. I don’t know what happened to
the other Senators. We feel that somewhere along the line publicity broke down. We hope it will get better."

In defense of the Senate, President Young stated, "The SGA has acted with authority on the case statement and petition.
I’m proud of the work they’ve put into this issue." In conclusion, Young expressed a hope "that the Trustees will
come out with a letter of intent to reevaluate and change Davidson’s present tenure policy."

The Professional Affairs Committee of the Davidson faculty proposed a change in Davidson’s tenure policy: "We therefore urgently request the
Trustees of Davidson College to remove the religious requirement for tenure from their By-Laws and entrust the matter of recruiting
Faculty members to the President and other officers of the college, using as their guide the Statement of Purpose of
the college. In this way, we believe the Christian character of the college can be nurtured and sustained without hindering
its development as an institution of liberal learning." This statement was approved overwhelmingly by Davidson's faculty at their Tuesday meeting,
64 to 7.

To address the trustees, President Young will be stressing the need for changes in our tenure policy. At the Plenary
Session on May 7, Young will emphasize that our concerns are constructive. "I have given Dr. Spencer copies of every
written statement and let him know of every action taken by the Senate task force."

Some faculty members have expressed concerns about the potential impact of the tenure policy on the college’s reputation and its
ability to attract qualified candidates. They argue that the current policy may result in the rejection of applications from highly
qualified individuals who do not meet the religious requirements, thereby affecting the overall quality of the faculty.

In summary, the controversy over the Christian tenure policy at Davidson College has been a long-standing issue, with various stakeholders
expressing differing views on the matter. The ongoing discussions and proposed changes reflect a desire to balance the college’s Christian
character with its commitment to academic excellence and inclusivity.Religious restrictions in the By-Laws had inhibited them in their search for
the best scholars and teachers who were available for positions here. It also asked the deans of other church-related colleges
whether those colleges operated under the kinds of restrictions Davidson did. The Commission found, in brief, that students and faculty
desired a change, as did a significant proportion of the alumni; that the religious restrictions in the By-Laws had served
as a negative factor in faculty recruiting; and that no other church-related colleges of Davidson’s academic standing had formal religious
requirements for its faculty.

In its final report to the President in June 1969, the Commission recommended that all formal religious requirements for members
of the faculty contained in the By-Laws be removed. Those requirements had been significantly altered since the early 1960s. But
they still included the following features: the college was said to seek as members of the faculty “only those who,
in addition to their academic qualifications, are committed to the Christian faith”; the administration of the college and the Education
Committee of the Trustees were “to satisfy themselves as to the Christian faith of every individual eligible to be a
member of the Faculty with tenure”; and “a majority of the Faculty and a majority of the full professors” were
required to be “members of some branch of the Presbyterian Church.”

In place of these restrictions, the Commission recommended that “the Dean of the Faculty inform every prospective faculty member of
the Christian aims of the college, using for this purpose the Statement of Purpose of Davidson College,” and that he
satisfy himself that the prospective faculty member was “willing, conscientiously and wholeheartedly, to teach in a community having these aims.”
The Commission noted that not all faculty members recruited in this way would, necessarily, be Christians, and that there would
be circumstances in which it would be “desirable, for educational reasons, to recruit non-Christians.”

One of the results of the Commission’s recommendations and of the discussions which ensued was that the By-Laws were revised
in October 1971. Most of the religious restrictions contained in the By-Laws were removed. There were, however, two important ones
which remained. These were: that the President was to make certain that each person appointed to the faculty was fully
aware of the purpose of the college, as expressed in the Statement of Purpose, and was prepared “to uphold and
seek to increase its (the college's) effectiveness as an institution of Christian learning”; and that “any Faculty member given tenure
must be an active member of a Christian church.”

The revised By-Laws were not, however, accepted with universal approbation. In October 1972 all the ordained members of the faculty
signed a statement asking the faculty and the President to request the trustees to alter those sections of the By-Laws
prescribing “a religious test for appointment to the faculty.” As a substitute for the religious restrictions contained in those sections,
the statement recommended the following paragraph:

“Since this is a college which has a special responsibility to encourage teaching and scholarship within a Christian climate, the
President and other officers of the college should make every effort to see that there are effective proponents of the
Christian faith on the teaching faculty of the college. In order, however, to preserve a healthy and vigorous intellectual life
on the campus, no attempt should be made to restrict temporary or permanent appointments to the faculty to those professing
a particular religious point of view.”

In May 1973, the faculty adopted overwhelmingly a resolution stating that there was “an urgent need to redefine the policy
of the college in relation to the recruitment of members of the faculty.” It stated the faculty’s belief “that the
President and other officers of the college should be entrusted with the responsibility of recruiting such faculty members as will
strengthen the college intellectually.” As a result of extensive discussions involving students, faculty, and trustees, a further revision of the
By-Laws was made by the Trustees on October 26, 1974. That revision, which was adopted in February 1975, states that
the President is directed “to seek out and secure as officers and Faculty members Christian men and women who are
not only highly competent but who understand and respond to the implications of their commitment as Christians.” It adds that
the trustees may “in special circumstances grant tenure to a person who respects the Christian tradition without commitment to all
its tenets,” but that such cases would “necessarily be rare.”

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030
