September 30, 1977

IMAC Report

Trades shake up flickerball

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

Greetings Chumps and welcome once again to the best column in The Davidsonian.

'Nard and H-Man would like to take a few seconds to explain a controversy that arose last week. Cathy Landis, infamous editor of The Davidsonian, questioned why the operator of the 16mm camera for the athletic department had to be a male.

Bernie thought of three possible reasons: 1) it just has to be, 2) males are superior to females, and 3) it is kind of hard for a female camera-person to room with the managers on road trips. Nice try, Cathy.

Some key trades among IMAC personnel were made over the past week as teams begin to narrow down before the February 23rd deadline.

Stan Brown, noted ragman and authority on all aspects of all games, decided he would let the offense of the SAE #1 team go. Stan also noted that veteran flanker Carl McPhail was not playing well and would probably not make the final cut.

Bill Barnett, head coach of Bargain Basement, dejectedly met with Hogman today and confirmed reports that 6’1” prep standout, Chris Dodds, was going to sign with an independent power, probably Fupped Duck. Porky Sumwalt, front office spokesman for the Fupped Ducks, was ecstatic over the news and commented, “This is the type of player we needed to return our program to the top 20 and compete with the KA’s.”

Sumwalt had earlier released the signing of Rich Perch, Nate Doherty, and Tim Bodonk to grants-in-aid. Watch out.

Word has it that the stand-out and team captain of the Bongs, Bogie Johnson, is still holding out for more money. If something is not worked out, the Bongs will have to go with a weaker mascot, probably Sam Currin.

The KA’s have been hindered throughout the early part of the season by antipathy and dissension between key players. Russ Folger, a strong defensive veteran, has refused to cut his hair and may be waived before the deadline along with Percy Badham who showed up at camp 20 pounds overweight.

Also in the news, Johnny Stroud announced today in front of his residence in Davidson that MacFleet and Stuff were going to have to send Los Angeles Ratliff back to the farm system. It was hard for Johnny to do it, but the team had voted that they no longer needed the Bearded Mountain Men.

But the big scoop of the week is that Head Coach of Johnny Castleberry and the East Harlem Whizz Kids, Mike “Land Shark” Knowles says he is on the verge of signing a 5-plus kid out of New York. We can’t give the kid’s name at this time, but we do know that he can do it when given the ball. Good luck, Mike, your team needs some good players.

Now for some big scores from last week. 66-0, 54-9, and 58-thirty something. There were also some little scores: 0-0, 6-0, and 2-1.

We saw some changes in our top ten last week and we also didn’t see some changes.

Number one KA’s blew the boxers off of the Bargain Basement, 45-6. John Gerdy released the following statement after the game: “After this game we are going to be back up at 6 am and resume two-a-day workouts. They (his freshman hall) will learn that IMAC flickerball is no picnic.”

Number two SAE’s was frightened by number five Fupped Ducks, but the E’s won, 19-19. Rod Owens was credited with the first open-field fumble in IMAC history.

Number three MacFleet and Stuff abused several teams, namely the Steel Raisins, to the tune of 66-0. Number four Bongs had a night game on the west coast, and the number six War Kiwis greased the Nads, 32-0.

The Fupped Ducks kaboomed 2nd Watts, and after forty-one points, Tim “Big Red” Goodell had to pull his team off the field. The Whizz Kids feasted on the fannies of EMBO, 52-12.

There are some other good teams out there, but at the present time none worth mentioning the scores of their games.

The Bad Bernard-Hogman Top Ten:

1. KA #1, 3-0
2. SAE #1, 3-0
3. MacFleet and Stuff, 3-0
4. Bongs, 1-0
5. Fupped Ducks, 1-1
6. War Kiwis, 3-0
7. Whizz Kids, 3-0
8. Old Men, 2-1
9. FIJI, 2-0
10. SPE, 2-0

That’s about all the #t&! we have to spread this week. Later.