Nee a: TI BD ick lari ‘ohare September 16, 1977 S32

Aren't we overreacting?

A Senior walks into the 900 Room. Another student cards him. The senior does not have his ID Card with him and is turned away at the door.

The student body throws a fit. “Why should I be carded?” he exclaims. “The attendant knows me, knows I’m 21. This is absurd.”

Are we spoiled? Is it so difficult to carry an ID Card?

No, it is not hard, but we are not children. The current crackdown on identification checks has reached the absurd extreme when Tony Boone pleads every time he takes a group of international students into the We fi ke Nn d fa il S SO C, a lly.

Davidson is not a police state. But neither is it paradise. So we have a problem. As one student told Dean Terry years ago, “I’m a student here like everyone else. I don’t want to be stopped and asked to show my ID.”

But at the same time, I have a problem. How do we solve the problem: maintaining an atmosphere of mature and responsible freedom while ensuring effective security? Davidson deserves better.

We solve it with common sense. Our present overreaction toward security is not the solution. ARA can lose its beer license in the 900 Room if they are caught serving beer to someone under age. There are several students here still under age.

Why could we not call a meeting of these students so the attendants can become familiar with them? Davidson is too small for even one person to be ostracized for four years because of one rejection.

Or why not give the attendants a computer print-out of all students and their ages? If an attendant were unsure about a student’s age, he could check the print-out.

Or we could just relax the rules. If an attendant is in doubt about a student’s age, he could ask to see some identification. Other students could come and go freely.

All campus facilities cannot relax the ID check as easily as the 900 Room. The gym is overrun with non-students; theft occurs frequently. ID checks are not so unreasonable in the gym. But a bidding system would hurt a great deal more.

All we need is a little common sense. Use ID checks when in doubt but don’t overreact. The next step will be to make everyone wear an ID Card on their shirts.

The old maxim, “Spare the rod and spoil the child” does not always work on adults. We are tired of being treated like children, or worse, convicts. As Tony Boone remarked, “We're being imprisoned by the very rules that are supposed to help us.”

AND WHAT DO YOU MEAN "AM I OLD ENOUGH TO DRINK?"

Catharine Gandie ............ Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ........ News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair ........ Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett ........ Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell .... Sports Editors
Managing Editor
Production Manager
Photography Editor
Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Patsy Daniels ........ Cartoonist
FOCUS Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.