The Davidsonian — December 16, 1977

Cats swim to two victories

“We are a better team than we were last year,” claims Davidson Swim Team Coach Pat Miller. Considering last season's
record of 11-4, some might have cause to doubt her, but Miller has several reasons for optimism concerning the prospects.
Returning swimmers are Mark Tommerdahl, who is the current holder of the Southern Conference record in the 200 fly as
well as being the owner of six school records, Jonathan Washburn, who placed in the top four in three events
in the conference championships last year as well as being the possessor of nine school records, and Marshall Brown, who
placed fifth in the 200 fly in the championships last winter. Among the returnees, Miller has had the squad working
as hard as ever. Most of the swimmers have been working out on their own since the beginning of school,
but team practices consisting of two-hour-a-day sessions did not begin until November 1. To keep in top form during Christmas,
the squad will work out in Florida, swimming 15,000 yards a day. The team will compete in fifteen dual meets
this year as well as the conference championships in February.

Very few of the meets will be in Johnston Gym, however, because of the inadequacies of the Davidson swimming facility.
The college pool only has four lanes whereas most schools have at least six, plus it does not have any
diving equipment. Therefore, any school that swims against Davidson in a meet here automatically receives sixteen points before the match
even begins. As Miller noted, “We just can’t give sixteen points to good teams like The Citadel and Furman.”

With East Carolina no longer a member of the Southern Conference, Miller sees a much tighter race for the championship.
“A few points could separate first and fifth place,” she observed, but added that the Wildcats have an excellent chance
to improve upon their sixth-place finish of last year.

The swim team captured a victory at home and on the road last week, defeating Pfeiffer College 69-43 in Tuesday's
meet at Davidson, followed by a 66-46 win over UNC-W Saturday. Washburn and Tommerdahl were double winners in both meets.
In the Pfeiffer meet, Washburn set a new school and pool record of 10:23.05 in the 1000m freestyle. On Saturday,
his time of 4:57.29 in the freestyle proved fast enough for another school record. Following the Christmas break, the Wildcat
swimmers will travel to Furman, VMI, and William and Mary, before returning home to host Johnson C. Smith on January
31st.Cagers Top Catawba in Pressure-Packed Contest

The women’s basketball team finally got on the winning track yesterday by defeating a tough Catawba team. The girls are
now 1-2. Catawba jumped out to a quick lead but were never ahead by more than seven points as a
result of consistent play. The Wildcats tied the game at 61-61 with only three minutes remaining, owing to the clutch
free throw shooting of Sarah Womack, who was 7 for 7 from the charity stripe for the night.

Also aiding the comeback was Cindy Morrison who dominated the boards late in the game, and the fact that four
players scored in double figures. Co-Captain Sally Bondurant was also credited with an excellent game, sinking several from the top
of the circle. Co-Captain Beth Tanner stated the key to victory was the fine ball-handling, resulting in fewer turnovers.

Last Thursday, the girls lost a heartbreaker to UNCC in Johnston Gym 58-57. The cagers had the game pulled from
their grasp when the 49ers managed a bucket with only ten seconds remaining in the game. The game was highlighted
by a comeback which saw the girls erase a 16-point deficit. Instrumental in the comeback was Tanner, who scored a
career-high 26 points. Sarah Womack helped with 15 points.

The girls lost their first game to Converse 55-51. The first half was completely dominated by Converse, but the girls
managed to pull together in the second half, despite having only practiced three days following Thanksgiving break. High scores for
the Cats were made by Tanner and Womack with 13 points apiece.

The next game for the women will be home against Campbell at 7:00 in Johnston Gym.

Wrestlers Grapple with Tough Season

The wrestling team lost its opening match with Catawba College on December 6. The team was substantially weakened by sickness,
and Coach Charles Parker was forced to use newcomers at several positions. The key match was the 177 lb. bout;
Scott Phillips took a 6-0 lead into the third period and was pinned. Catawba went on to win 30-21.

Freshman Pat McKinsey enjoyed an auspicious debut, pinning his man after thoroughly dominating the 134 lb. match. Anthony Dantilipo, at
167, also pinned his opponent, while Heavyweight Rob King won a 6-0 decision. Pete Johnson, Kevin Caldwell, and Rich Reich
all lost close decisions.

On the 10th, the team wrestled in the Catawba Tournament, in which six area schools participated. Two men were entered
in each weight class, and several Wildcats were awarded individual honors: McKinsey, Phillips, and King took 2nd places, Reich won
a 3rd, and Johnson and Senior Captain Glen Ballard won 4th places. Everyone entered won at least one match.

The team’s prospects look very bright, for there is experienced leadership, depth, and an influx of talented freshmen on the
squad. Captain Ballard exudes a quiet confidence, “I don’t think we'll lose too many matches after Christmas.”

The Wildcats’ first home match is set for Jan. 14th, when they face Elon.
