April 1, 1977

Freshman hall compared to other schools

PBELL currently houses dorms and the College of William and Mary. Most of these dorms are single-sexed, although Williams College in Massachusetts houses its freshmen together in coed dorms. A supportive environment is what Mr. L. W. Smith, Housing Director of Duke University, fears. "I myself strongly disagree with all freshman housing," he said. "All it does is to continue student adolescence for another year." Mr. Jankey of Williams College said their junior advisor program is a self-perpetuating system: "Their duties are not rigidly defined, although they’re supposed to be available. We have no formal training program. They just come a day early in the fall to learn college referral people."

With the exception of Sewanee, the seven schools surveyed had some type of hall counselor program. "Resident advisor" was the common term for these students. Mrs. Leake of Wake Forest said, "We let the term 'counselor' die a long time ago since they really do more advising." Unlike the situation at Davidson, these resident advisors reside in all dorms. Their duties vary from a regulatory role as at Wake Forest to one involving counseling and dorm maintenance as at Vanderbilt.

Training programs also vary. Duke had the most extensive; resident advisors receive one week of training. Most other schools offered "crash" courses of two or three days. At Duke University, undergraduate assistants receive $2.35 per hour for an 11-13 hour week and a slight reduction in rent. Wake Forest resident advisors receive eight monthly installments totaling $600 per year. Depending upon the cost of the resident hall where one lives, this amount can be as much as $740. William and Mary pays its advisors $600 a year plus the cost of one meal per day for a five-day week. According to Morgan, this free meal encourages the advisors to eat with the freshmen. At Swarthmore, monetary compensation is in terms of free room—about $900 a year. The largest compensation of those schools questioned occurs at Vanderbilt. According to Mr. K. C. Pottes, Director of the Housing Division, "room and a very small salary comes to about $1400 for a resident advisor. Head residents receive $2200."

"The hall counselor is in some ways a person in the middle, because he has to represent the college while at the same time he has to relate to his freshmen who have different values," said Terry, Assistant Dean of Students. "I guess one of the things we try to discern is will this person take the time to get to know his freshmen," he said. "And we look for people who we believe generally have good judgment. This is a paramount criterion." The committee also looks for dependability, maturity, and people who have the facility to sit down and meet with students.

Interview with counselors exposes varied opinions for the up-and-coming hall counselors. Re-entering a freshman hall is possible for those juniors selected as hall counselors. A junior year spent abroad on a freshman hall may be as foreign as the experience itself.One on the Continent. This idea, Jane found that; as applicants’ have over “Through the Looking Glass” illustrates the variable nature of the position. Jane Perkins found that “when real problems came up, you go pretty much on your own intuition.” Another lack was few previous “hall counselors to tell their mistakes and what they wished they had done,” said Steve.

Extra-curricular activities are also taken into consideration, according to Terry. They also look for someone who will be able to help the freshmen to some extent to have some kind of social life. Grades also are considered by the committee. “We ordinarily won't pick somebody who is a real poor student because we feel that a hall counselor should set a good example with study habits,” said Terry.

As mediator, “referral service” to campus activities and a jack-of-all-trades on the hall, a hall counselor is more than an authority figure, a proxy parent to a brood of 23. “We’re not here to mold people or create twelve ideal Davidson students, we try to help them adjust and guide them in a positive direction,” said Bruce Holliday.

“We were conscious this year of trying to provide some diversity among our hall counselors,” he said. “That is certainly limited by the kinds of people who apply.” The personal growth marked in Steve Justus’ retrospective statement, “I would not make the same mistake with people again,” is widespread among the 1976-77 counselors. “Working together as a pair” with a roommate chosen for contrast has been a “great” experience for Jane Perkins. “I came out a lot more,” said Meg Campbell, who broke sophomore routine.

The role requires you to “help whenever you can, that is part of being a hallmate and a friend,” added Miller McClintock. A delicate balance is influential for the juniors now as when they were freshmen. The self-knowledge acquired on the return to freshman dorms is a reward supplemented by the hoped “influence on the freshmen in living at Davidson,” Roger Brown's wish. Now knowing the time and energy required to be a hall counselor, they'd do it again.

When contacted about the hall counselor pay policy, Dean of Students Will Terry said, “If they feel that strongly, it seems that I end up working double for little pay. They could apply the money to our grants or work/study and really lessen the specific hours of work.” “You lose sleep, study time, food, and then there are the problems you never dreamed of that happen,” added one. The only monetary reimbursement given to the freshman halls is $50 at the beginning of the year for a phone plus $35 per term for “expenses.” “The $35 doesn’t help very much,” commented one hall counselor. “If they are going to say that we are staff members of the Dean of Students’ Office, then it seems that we should be paid as such,” observed another. “I have not been informed of any change in policy for next year.”

When asked why something can’t be done about this policy, Dean Terry responded, “Students can try, but with 83 applicants for the positions, in spite of no pay, it’s going to be hard to convince the President that the policy needs changing.”

Add a new international dimension to your college career with a SEMESTER AT SEA. The S.S. Universe sails Sept. 7, 1977, on a circle-Africa voyage. Join us. FREE COLOR VIEWBOOK. Write or phone INSTITUTE FOR SHIPBOARD EDUCATION, Taj Mahal Bldg., P.O. Box 2488, Laguna Hills, CA 92653. (714) 581-6770.

BRUCE HOLLIDAY moves from his hall counselor role to freshman advisor.