October 7, 1977

The Davidsonian

TURNING THE CORNER, freshman halfback Alvin Atkinson rumbles upfield with the ball. [Gregg Strader]

Cats tackle Yellow Jackets

By HARRY GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcat Football team will take on the Yellow Jackets of Randolph-Macon in the Cats’ Homecoming game on Saturday. It is a crucial game for Ed Farrell's gridders. After consecutive thrashings by Bucknell and Lehigh, respectively, the momentum ...

Extended studies
[Continued from page 1]

... expects the departments to give majors the option of taking Extended Studies 301 and 401 or an altered major program. The proposal, adopted by the EPC last spring, was held until this fall because “it was worked out so late that there was not time for the faculty to consider it,” speculated Zimmerman. “I think it is a poor idea for faculty to develop important policy late in the spring anyway.”

Epes explained the recommendation was part of an overall curriculum evaluation which the EPC planned to present in its entirety. He also said the EPC needed explanations of the proposals attached to the document before it was presented to the faculty for vote. The explanatory paragraphs were written over the summer.

Epes and Zimmerman commented on some of the recommendations. The majority of Extended Studies will be under departments for “better overseeing of teaching loads and maybe better quality work,” said Epes. He explained the departmental listing also will make transcripts easier to understand. “We had in the past a program that dealt with individual faculty members; now it deals with department members,” he said. “Some people may argue that departmental listing will tell the departments what to do,” said Epes. The proposed policy may increase departmental work, according to him.

Zimmerman places himself “on the side of those who do not want (required 301 and 401 programs). I tend to favor abolishing the mandatory nature, but granting it liberally to those who do want it.” “I think in some of the sciences the Extended Studies is burdensome on the faculty if the student does not know exactly what he is doing. I sympathize with instructors who have to knock their brains out to motivate a student who is not competent,” he said.

Epes expects recommendation three to cause the most debate among the faculty. “The debate will probably be why is (interdisciplinary Extended Studies) only open to freshmen and sophomores? Why not juniors and seniors? My answer is ‘Yes, why not?’” he said. “(The pass-fail grades) will remove any danger of Extended Studies being an easy grade or being called an easy grade,” said Epes. “It will, I think, let faculty sponsors who are doing this over and above the regular course load have an easier job.” “I myself would lean toward grading,” said Zimmerman.

The EPC limited the number ...

Tough schedule slows start

By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

Being winless after five outings and outscored by the opposition nineteen to two, could be enough to make any coach wish the season would end quickly. But for Karl Kremser, who finds himself in that position as coach of the soccer team, the optimism remains high. In viewing the season thus far, Kremser placed the majority of the blame for the poor start on the schedule that the Wildcats have faced. “We're playing a major-league schedule,” he cited and then pointed out that the opposing schools recruit students specifically to play soccer. In contrast, Davidson has never recruited a soccer player. Kremser does not try to use that fact as a scapegoat though. “We have some really talented kids. Even though in most games, we have been completely outmanned. Individually, when you look at us as a team, we have been better than some of the schools we faced.” Playing without any scholarship players, Kremser expressed an understandable amount of pride in ...The effort of the soccer team thus far. “The scores are not indicative of the effort and improvement they've made,” he remarked, “with the exception of the Jacksonville game with UNC-Chapel Hill,” which he described as a “sensational effort.” Kremser noted that another problem is that the players have not completely adjusted to his style of play. “Sometimes we seem to be confused and hesitant,” he reasoned.

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

He hopes to control the mental errors that come with an adjustment to a new system by drilling the players until it all becomes second nature to them. The next big step for Kremser is what he calls “tactical thinking and understanding of the game,” pointing out that that will come as the season progresses. Having left behind a state championship team in Miami, Kremser is not accustomed to losing. “I want to see results now, rather than down the road,” he declared, but added that he knew changes would not happen overnight. However, he observed that there was a new competitive nature on the squad and concluded that better times should await the squad—the remaining contests. The team had after the first two victories had faded. A big win here, along with victories in the upcoming games with Guilford and Hampden-Sydney, would give the team the boost they need before doing battle with such powers as VMI, Delaware, and Lafayette.

The players are confident, though, despite the recent setbacks. “By no means are we down and out,” stressed quarterback Bob McCarthy. The general consensus among the players seems to be that the Cats are very capable of winning, but mistakes and mental letdowns have done them in. Defensive tackle Frank Fields said, “We want to get back on the winning track. We just have to play as well as we can, and eliminate our mistakes.”

Randolph-Macon is 1-3 on the year, but is coming off a 21-13 win over Washington and Lee. Coach Farrell has emphasized the fact that the Yellow Jackets are a very emotional team, and will be ready for Davidson. Last year the two teams battled to a 0-0 tie at Randolph-Macon, in a game that Farrell thinks should have gone to Davidson. “They played a very emotional game against us. We weren't as emotional. They tied us in a game which we all feel we should have won.” In stressing the importance of this week's game, he added, “Their game with us last year was the turning point in their season. They probably see this game as the point in their season to get things going in the right direction.” The Jackets are led by quarterback Butch Butler, and running back Larry Lane, who rushed for 111 yards against W&L.

Football: 2-2
Lehigh 43, Davidson 7

Soccer: 0-5
Jacksonville 6, Davidson 0
Berry 3, Davidson 1

Golf: Fifth (21 teams) in Furman 4-ball

Field Hockey: 2-1
Davidson 3, Converse 0
Pfeiffer 2, Davidson 0

Cross Country: 3-1
Davidson 15, Hampden-Sydney 50
Davidson 20, Lynchburg 41

Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Phone 663-3030 892-0208.

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina