March 25, 1977

The Davidsonian

Students find outlet in meditation

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

“My whole outlook on life improved,” said one Davidson junior when talking about one of the most well-known current forms of meditation, Transcendental Meditation. “At first I wasn’t too optimistic but I liked the benefits of just feeling refreshed all day and moving on to a higher state of enlightenment.”

A small number of Davidson students have turned to “practiced methods” of meditation for reasons ranging from relief of tension and discovery of personal potential to no reason at all. The methods of meditation differ as widely as do the reasons for meditating. Students not only practice TM, but also yoga and the Tibetan form of Buddhist meditation.

The Westernized form of meditation is known as TM. It was founded by the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi who says that TM “provides this ability to gain complete knowledge, to improve the qualities of one’s life and...to create an ideal society through the enlightenment of the individual.” The program includes introductory and preparatory lectures, a personal interview, and extensive training.

“I got interested in TM last August,” said senior Mark Menchel. “I got interested, read about it—and took the course. I was very skeptical.” Menchel stated that TM, “helps you do what you want to do. It’s not a religion. Here is where people have their problems. The Maharishi wishes that he had never named it meditation—he wishes that it had been something like, ‘the relaxation method.’”

SOME STUDENTS use meditation to help them cope with Davidson. (Hunter Jennings)

Menchel noted, “There are three ministers in the Bible-belt city of Charlotte that meditate.” TM is thought by some to be a religion. “If you practice this meditation with all of its Hindu aspects and even the ceremony when you receive your mantra, you are slowly losing your Christian base,” said one student.

Freshman Sylvia Gordon said, “I think that it is a religion. The so-called meaningless symbols that serve as mantras are really words that mean things like, ‘I bow down before you.’ In its incorporation charter in California, it is stated that TM is a religion.” She concluded, “I don’t know what they’re trying to do, but because I am a Christian, I don’t think it’s right.”

David Litaker, freshman, stated, “I went to a TM introductory lecture and it wasn’t anti-Christian.” He went on to say that the program wasn’t exactly pro-Christian either. “It’s good for your body, but I’m wary of it.”

Sid Barrett does not meditate but has studied many religions. He said of TM, “It’s an excellent practice. People just misunderstand it...” He explained that those misinformed people either believe TM is a religion or they attribute too much power to TM.

“I don’t think that I’d ever do it. I don’t feel the need for it,” said a skeptical freshman. “It’s a state of mind that you can do what you want to do. I don’t believe in it—but if I paid sixty to seventy dollars for a mantra, it sure would work.”

“Yoga is an active form of meditation,” said art instructor Herb Jackson in his invitation to yoga at the beginning of the Davidson Hatha-Yoga class. The class, taught by Jackson, was begun in September. Jackson initially became interested in yoga because of a hip injury. That was two years ago. Since that time he has found added meaning in yoga and in meditating. Jackson said, “Spiritual quiet is a part of learning.” Although he does not meditate for a certain reason, he has found that now he is “...more flexible. I don’t get tired as easily. I’m more alert—more open to other people.” He said that through Yoga one finds that “the body’s limitations are temporary...as are the mind’s limitations.”

At the end of each yoga class, students are asked to form a circle and hum the sound, “Ohmmmmm.” Why? Jackson explained, “to bring us together...it’s a parting gesture...we breathe the same air and make different tones, but we are one.”

“Every position that you do in yoga is right,” said one member of the yoga class. “You do what is right for your body.” This student, who used to practice TM, now practices the Tibetan form of Buddhist meditation. “I started meditating because I...began here as a pre-med student. “It’s especially good because of all the tension that we’re under.”

“Meditation is nothing special,” said Herb Jackson. “It just is. It is a pure form of being.”

“No, it’s not a religion—unless of course you are a Buddhist,” said Jackson. “It’s just a heightened awareness with the promise of higher enlightenment and understanding.”

“I can’t really estimate the number of students that meditate at Davidson. Most meditators don’t talk about it much,” mused Jackson. He felt that, “...defining experience is a way of losing it.”

A Davidson senior who also practices the Tibetan form of Buddhist meditation said that he hoped one day to achieve enlightenment. “It could happen now or in many years.” He explained that he meditated for no reason except for the fact that it is a part of his life. He said, “It’s there to do just like eating and sleeping. I meditate because it is.”

This student became interested in this “spiritual path” while traveling in Copenhagen during his Junior Year Abroad. “It gave answers to some of my questions about life,” he said.

Many Davidson students who were asked what they thought of meditation replied that they had, “never really thought about it.” Others were interested but didn’t see how they could find enough time for meditating. One disillusioned meditator said, “Yeah, I used to meditate. I did TM and all that crap...even had a mantra...I couldn’t concentrate on my mantra so I had to concentrate on my breathing, like Zen, you know.” The effect that meditation brought to this student was “just relaxation. I fell asleep more often than I meditated.” (Hunter Jennings)

THE OUTING CLUB offers Davidson students the opportunity to extend their horizons.

By BRIAN JACOBS
Staff Writer

For the past two years, the Davidson Outing Club has been on the endangered species list. Outing clubs in former years have tried unsuccessfully to turn Davidson students on to the beautiful North Carolina mountain and wilderness areas. Weekly meetings to plan trips for the upcoming weekends achieved little besides gathering a core group of backpackers who would anxiously scan maps of the western mountain areas. Many of the meetings ended in the discovery that no one had a car, and the participants had to content themselves with a local walk to Egg Rock Woods or a trip to the lake campus. The problem stemmed either from students’ preoccupation with that test or paper due on Monday, or from an inability of the club to attract the participation of already active student backpackers, canoers, etc., who preferred to go out on their own.

This year the club has made some headway. Courses offered in Mountaineering have stimulated considerable interest and have tenuously united a group of people who share a common enthusiasm for the wilderness. Members as well as non-members who are interested can get together to initiate Outing Club trips. The club will publicize outings and provide the necessary information and equipment if a trip is open to the entire student body and a reasonable number of people participate.

Steve Coffey and Brian Jacobs have been the organizers behind this year’s club, with equipment managers Hans Cowan and Steve Piper. The Outing Club was not originally allocated any money at the beginning of this year, but Coffey and Jacobs succeeded in obtaining matching grants of $360 from both the SGA and the Union Board. The majority of this money went toward the purchase of badly needed equipment: essentials like sleeping bags, backpacks, and mess kits. Presently, the club has only enough backpacking gear to outfit a party of seven, but hopes to obtain backpacking gear for four four-party groups. Besides providing equipment (free after a $2 per year membership fee), the club has a minimal number of maps and guide books to direct potential adventurers. What they need now is more input from the students.

The Mountaineering program, which incorporates courses in basic and upper-level rock climbing, is going on its own. The program is part of a consortium sponsored by Central Piedmont Community College and offered to Davidson students for a modest fee of $3.75.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
The Bad News Bears
STARRING Walter Matthau & Tatum O’Neal
8:00 & 10:30 PM
LOVE $1.00