2

The Davidsonian

October 7, 1977

College comprehensive fee compares “very favorably”

By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

Davidson College Business Manager Robert A. Currie stated that Davidson’s comprehensive fee (tuition, room, board, and fees) is about $2000 less than the fees of many Northern schools and was in the medium range of Southern schools.

Currie stated that the favorable position of Davidson is due in part to the President and the Trustees who “are determined not to price us out of the range of the people we seek to serve.”

Currie went on to add that Davidson is “fortunate in many traditions” significantly in keeping the prices down. Comptroller Robert W. De stated that we are one of the recipients of the income produced by the Duke Endowment.

Last year the college received $464,068 from the endowment for general operating purposes—adding up to a total of approximately $7,000. Davidson expects to receive a similar amount next year.

Since 1970, the comprehensive fee has risen at the rate of a little over 5 percent a year.

When asked how high prices might go in future years, Davidson replied that he frankly didn’t know. “We have worried about pricing ourselves out of the market. We thought we would have by now, but everything else is increasing proportionally.”

Is this cost a deterrent to students considering enrolling at Davidson? “We hope not,” says Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid Brenda F. Parnell. She pointed out that the catalogue states that no student should hesitate to apply because of money.

Parnell went on to add that Davidson has a “good financial aid program that meets the need of 90 percent of its students.”

...program sliced

(Continued from page 1)

“We must grow up, get out of our enclave, move on up from the high price college mentality.”

Wood points out that the NIB has noted that other colleges similar to Davidson have expressed no reluctance to sign the forms and are perfectly willing to do so.

“When dealing with the Federal government, you gain a little and you give a little—I assume that Dr. Spencer is in a better position than I am to evaluate that (tension),” Wood said.

The YMCA will hold its annual fund-raising drive next Monday-Thursday, October 10-13. This year's goal is $1500. Students will be coming door to door to explain the Y and its programs and to solicit contributions. The money raised in the drive will be used to supply operating funds for the Y's programs such as the Student Tutorial Educational Program (STEP), Prison Visitation, the Senior Citizen Center, the Community Youth Coffeehouse, the North Mecklenburg YMCA, and Thursday Lunch at the Depot.

Spencer speaks to parents

Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. will address parents and the college community during Parents Weekend, October 21-23. The President's address will begin at 11:30 am on Saturday and last approximately thirty minutes.

Following the talk will be a luncheon on Richardson Plaza and the Davidson vs. Hampden-Sydney football game at 2 pm.

Other highlights of the weekend include capsule courses for parents, a soccer game against Furman, hospitality hours in faculty houses, and the drama production of Shakespeare's “As You Like It.”

...checks bounce
(Continued from page 1)

“We patterned our committee after (the University of Virginia’s) committee,” says Peeples. When a store receives a bad check, it contacts (the Bad Check Committee), and we contact the student responsible for the check.”

If the student pays the check within ten days, he is clear. But if he can't pay it, Dean of Students Will Terry has an emergency loan fund for such purposes.

The student is given a deadline in which to pay the administration back, and if he fails to pay at this stage, disciplinary action, possibly including suspension, is implemented.

The Bad Check Committee has sent a pamphlet with all this information to 250 businesses in the area, asking the merchants to help by notifying the school promptly upon receiving a bad check. The faster the merchant replies, the higher the rate of success in dealing with a bad check.

“The problem lies with about 30 students who are making a bad name for all Davidson students,” observes Peeples. “We're getting ready to lose a great privilege.” if businesses like King Sirloin, which now requires identification, stop accepting Davidson checks.

The Cornelius 7-11 has acquired eight bad checks since school began this year and, like many merchants, has tightened its policy on accepting student checks. Cashions Grocery has reported three checks, and Ace Hardware reported one.

If the current trend in bad checks continues, Peeples implied some guilty students may find themselves in a personal finance course that they didn't ask for. But all innocent students will suffer if no businesses will accept a Davidson check.

HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL

MBA PROGRAM

An Admissions Representative from Harvard Graduate School of Business will be on campus Tuesday, October 11, to meet with students interested in the two-year MBA Program.

Contact the Career Planning and Placement Center for more details and to sign up for an information session.

Harvard Business School is committed to the principle of equal educational opportunity and evaluates candidates without regard to race, sex, creed, or national origin.