February 4, 1977

February 4, goes to almost 20 thousand watts. THIS CONTROL BOARD will be expanded considerably when WDAV (Hunter Jennings) Lawrimore defines WDAV proposal.

By PHILIP DUNCAN © News Editor

Q. Tell us about the plans to increase WDAV’s power and range.

A. The trustees expressed interest some time ago in exploring the possibility of increasing the power of the radio station. We worked with engineers and decided that the best opportunity in terms of the broadcast spectrum was an 18,000-watt station at 89.9 on the FM dial. The Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company north of here agreed to let us use their tower. The engineers recommended we microwave the signal from campus to the tower. (The broadcast waves will reach the Greater Charlotte area.) Estimated cost of boosting the power is $52,000. That is the minimum that could be spent if the college decides, with the approval of the trustees, to opt for the high power. At latest word from the FCC there have been no problems with our application whatsoever, and we expect they will make a final decision by the end of February.

Q. What in addition to high power is being considered?

A. There’s almost an unlimited number of options. Some improvements in the present studio equipment seem advisable, but at this point it’s a big question as to how much can be justified. It also seems advisable to have some member of the college staff more directly involved in the day-to-day operation of the station—a station manager. Another question is the engineering situation—the man who is now the WDAV engineer (Paul Sealy) would very much like to work with the new station. Do we add these staff members, and, if so, on what basis—part-time, full-time? That’s another question in this. There is one other question—whether or not we buy automated equipment (computer equipment and pre-programmed tapes) which would probably be necessary during holidays and summertime when students wouldn’t be around to run the station.

Q. How can this expenditure for the radio station be justified in light of other priorities—Martin Science, eating and living facilities, for example?

A. The big difference is we expect the radio station will bring money to the college. There’s a general feeling that there would be great public relations benefit to the college if we provided high-quality music and educational programming.

Q. The automated computer equipment enables an overseer to put on a tape of pre-recorded programming and leave the station essentially unattended for up to three days while the program runs. How will the purchase of automated equipment affect the present WDAV staff of 55?

A. I don’t like the idea of saying to the current staff, “X number of you are going to lose your jobs.” That is a very negative approach. What I want to say is, “Here’s what we hope to accomplish with this radio station. We would like your suggestions as to how this might best be done, using students as much as practical.” If it’s possible that good quality which speaks well for the college is possible with 55 people participating, that’s fine. It’s the quality that is the goal.

Q. What kind of programming will be planned if the high power station is approved?

A. That is also a matter of discussion. Jack Golden and I talked about this when he was station manager and the general idea was, in the morning, album cuts that the students want to hear. In late morning and early afternoon, verbal educational programming, and classical music from early afternoon until mid-evening. Then album cuts, whatever the students would like to play, after ten o’clock. The basic program would not be much different from the present program, except for a little more classical music. I think the students’ main concerns are a) we lose our extracurricular activity as we have come to know and love it; and b) we think the college ought to spend the money on the chemistry building. Dr. Spencer and I and the few people with these ideas—we’re not boogeymen out to see how we can mess up students’ lives, and we're trying to explore what’s in the best interests of the college. We don’t view this as a multi-thousand dollar project to pour money in. If it turns out that the cons outweigh the pros, the project will probably be abandoned.

Q. What has Dr. Spencer told you about his ideas in this matter?

A. Dr. Spencer favors the establishment of a high power quality programming station with a maximum degree of student involvement. He believes control by faculty and staff should be minimized. He had no qualms about the basic high power package, which costs $52,000. He believes the benefits will be substantial enough to justify the expenditure. He has some questions about the operating budget and the part-time/full-time status of the paid staff members, and will talk to college staff and faculty to get their opinion in these areas.

By CATHERINE LANDIS Editor

The staff at WDAV has heard conflicting stories about what is involved in the increased wattage move. “I’ve never been told what's really going on in one piece,” Sid Barrett, station manager, comments, “We’ve heard so many bits and pieces that any idea we've heard is conceivable.” Barrett elaborates on the ideas he has heard. Paul Sealy, the station’s...engineer, tells him the move will require a minimum of $100,000. $50,000 will go to the transmitting equipment, which includes transmitter, tower, and microwave relay system to send the signal from the Union to the Transco Gas Pipeline tower. $2000 will go toward the initial music package. The most controversial expenditure is the $30,000 for automation equipment. Barrett says, “I'm concerned that the college will take over the music programming. The interest is that the students have a free hand in the programming policy and that students be on the air.”

Barrett has two worries. First, he fears the staff will be cut from 55. The second concern is the type of music which will be played. “Since it’s a money-making venture and looking at the alumni interest, I just can’t see how we can program for the students.” He goes on to say, “Lawrimore said we must maintain the quality of the ... students.”

[Continued from page 1]

worked with Lawrimore to apply for permission to increase power with the FCC. “That’s what the commission expects us to broadcast,” he said. The college will be responsible for the classical and educational broadcasting while the students will program the contemporary broadcast, according to Golden. “There was talk about hiring a full-time employee to oversee the programming of that block of time the college was responsible for,” he said. Although the student DJs will report to the highly qualified staff, it has been promised that there will not be a wholesale takeover by Lawrimore.

The WDAV staff is concerned about the prospect of an automation system and the reduction of student broadcast time. “I am startled by the students’ reaction to this,” said Spencer. “I thought the students knew about it and were excited. I thought it was an opportunity to do something professional rather than just a lark.”

Communication breakdown results in radio station confusion

By KEVIN SHELLY
Special Projects Editor

There’s an interesting play being put on, some might even call it a power play. The principal characters are Buck Lawrimore, Sam Spencer, Sid Barrett, Jack Golden, and Paul Sealy, a new discovery. There are also sixty bit parts, but as of now, they don’t have any lines. And they might not get any at all. It’s hard to say because right now this play lacks both a director and an author, and the principal players are in no way prepared to pull off a successful improvisation. A lot of misinformation has been spread and none of the actors seem to know what the others are saying.

Jack Golden, the former WDAV station manager, knew of plans to up the wattage for quite a while. But he did not explain any details to the new manager, Sid Barrett, before he jaunted off to Europe last month. Sid Barrett, who was largely uninformed, thought a closet-coup was being formulated and prepared to do battle with a nebulous nemesis. Paul Sealy, presently engineering consultant for WDAV and likely to take over that position full-time if the transition occurs, is spreading misinformation to present WDAV staff members for no apparent reason. Buck Lawrimore, whose interest in the takeover is large but undefined, is on record as having said that the “new” station will be the “Update of the airwaves.” Sam Spencer, who thinks the new format and upped wattage will increase financial contributions to the college, reacted to the furor that the proposal has caused by saying, “I am startled by the student reaction, I thought they knew about it and were excited.”

Everyone seems to be excited, but because the major characters have so miserably failed to communicate with each other, no one is exactly sure what there is to be excited about. These five characters need a director now. The cost of upping the wattage to 18,000 watts will be about $52,000. That is damn expensive considering the pressing needs of the school and its declining educational facilities. 

But Spencer terms the move, “Money sent after money,” hoping to draw increased attention and money from a Charlotte that has embraced UNCC and CPCC in Davidson's place. Maybe it will draw money, but Spencer seems to have missed the point. A group of 60 students are now involved in WDAV and have almost complete control of their programs. If the change to more classical music is instituted, the number of students involved will be reduced and those with shows between noon and 8 pm will be greatly constrained in what they can play, and if a professional manager/programmer is hired, he could oversee all the programs, if that is what the administration decided on.

Spencer's comment about WDAV as it is now and as it could be is revealing. He said the new station is an “opportunity for Davidson students to do something professional, rather than having WDAV just a plaything.” Others in the administration, including Development Vice President, Dwayne Dittman, have referred to the station as a toy. That is a frightening attitude to be coming from the administration and seems largely to be a rationalization of their position, whatever that may be.

The unanswered questions are many: By how much will the staff be cut? Will there be a professional manager, or will the station still be student-run? How much control will students have over individual programs? How many educational shows will be produced here, rather than just using already prepared ones? Will this actually...