the davidsonian January 14, 1977

EQGUS continued

Distrust mars program

By KEVIN SHELLY
Special Projects Editor

Consciousness III has withered away, Jack Bevan is a memory, and educational innovation is on the line as “Blue Sky”
turns foreboding grey in the cynical ’70s. The issue is the life, death, or transformation of the Extended Studies Program.

In the more innocent and idealistic atmosphere of the '60s, Extended Studies was implemented by then Vice President of Academic
Affairs, Jack Bevan, as part of a comprehensive program to provide wider outlets for academic exploration. However, the reaction against
non-traditional curriculum has set in, marked by the Educational Policy Committee’s reexamination of all those areas lumped under the category
of “Blue Sky” programs.

The first to come under the gun is Extended Studies, the program that offers the most leeway to each student
to do what he wants under the guidance of a faculty member. But the other programs are in for similar
treatment. There has been a lot of talk about the lax nature of many projects that come under the aegis
of Extended Studies, so much so that this may seem to be the central issue in the argument against Extended
Studies and plans for its change or demise.

However, the central issue, although never stated openly, is just how much the faculty trusts each other to sponsor only
quality work and eliminate the slipshod. Faculty members are free under the terms of Extended Studies to accept or reject
proposals for projects, and they can stipulate certain minimum requirements for all the work they undertake and are under no
obligation to take on this responsibility. (The majority of the members of the EPC do not sponsor Extended Studies.)

What it boils down to is that some faculty members feel that other members of the faculty are incapable of
demanding a certain level of quality from the students they are supposedly guiding in these projects. Perhaps this distrustful, cynical
attitude is for the best because if changes are instituted which require minimal standards, the program will be the stronger
for it. To terminate the program at this point would be like killing a patient if he shows any sign
of illness.

The second argument that is bandied about is that taking on Extended Studies projects places a great strain on professors’
course loads. This can be true, but once again it is at each professor’s discretion to determine the number of
projects accepted, and each professor is free to limit the number that are undertaken every term. Some departments even mandate
the maximum number that each professor may sponsor. A professor in one of the departments with the heaviest student loads
accepts a number of Extended Studies students every semester interested in areas that overlap with the research he is involved
in.

Perhaps Extended Studies would not be seen as a burden, but rather a boon, if more faculty members were actively
involved in research projects. Professors can benefit from the efforts of students they sponsor if they wish to and are
free to reject any and all proposals.all burdensome projects. If slack projects have been done by students in the past,
it is because a member of the faculty has agreed to sponsor them, not because the program has been designed
to allow students an easy way out of regular courses. The question then is what to do to correct abuses
and require quality work from Extended Studies Programs. A possible solution is to eliminate Extended Studies altogether and rely on
independent studies to fill the gap, but this is an imperfect solution because some departments, such as history, do not
offer independent studies. The interdisciplinary nature of Extended Studies will be lost, psychologically if not in reality, by relying on
major departments to bridge all the areas that Extended Studies now encompasses. An independent study-only system would mean greater numbers
of students will try to register for independent studies as course offerings decrease, and once again underclassmen will be effectively
eliminated from participating in independent studies. If a major has been predetermined before entrance into college, this should be no
cause for concern, but ideally, and perhaps naively, a liberal arts education is supposed to stimulate exploration of the self,
values, and presuppositions. If this process were confined to junior and senior year by keeping underclassmen from participating, the purpose
of a liberal arts education would be sacrificed to expediency.

Because the problem that has arisen with the program is primarily that faculty members do not trust other faculty members,
it would seem that the obvious solution is to implement some controls that would hold faculty members accountable for sponsoring
work of a certain minimal level of quality. First, the number of projects each professor undertakes should be regulated so
that some faculty members are not obviously overextending themselves, as has occurred in the past. This can be done either
through the departments or the faculty as a whole, but it should take into consideration all of a professor’s obligations
to the college community, not just course load, and departmental decisions would be more desirable if all obligations were to
be considered.

Another possible corrective measure is to require a written mid-term report, drawn up jointly by the professor and the student
he is sponsoring, to be submitted to the Director of Extended Studies. This would require closer observation of the projects
by professors and would force certain minimal achievements, as per the contract signed, to be met.

Each week in Focus, The Davidsonian will examine one issue of campus-wide interest from a variety of angles and approaches.
Next week’s topic is crime and security in both town and college. By announcing the topic in advance each week,
we hope to start the community thinking in this area and hope that any information or suggestions will be volunteered
by seeing one of the editors or leaving it in the Focus Box in our office.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
THE MAN WHO SHOT LIBERTY VALANCE
STARRING JOHN “DUKE” WAYNE
JIMMY STEWART
8 & 10:30 P.M.
Love $1.00
