---

The Davidsonian

April 8, 1977

IMAC Report

Ed’s massage rubbed out

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

Just as the sun must rise each morning and set each night and the flowers blossom each spring and fade each fall, so must it be with the IMAC all-stars. Every Alcindor has his Elvin Hayes, every Ali has his Frazier, and yes, the IMAC all-stars have their Red Team.

The results are in and after being totaled on our Ace Hardware calculator this was the outcome: Carl McPhail-703; Paul Henschen-207; Bob Lapple-206; Hogman-3. We would like to thank everyone who voted in this heated contest and please remember not to get upset if your favorite star or stars were not chosen.

The game is set for 7:30 pm on April 12 in Johnston Gym, and there is no admission charge. Rumors have it that there may be a slam-dunk contest at halftime, open to anyone, with the winner receiving an all-expense paid date with the renowned Hogwoman.

The volleyball season opened last week, and several teams walked away with victories. More details on that later.

Softball season continues to move along and the big news this week is that Off-Again won their fifteenth straight game. Playing in the swamp (lower soccer field) the Off-Againers rubbed their duck to the tune of seven runs as they snipped ROTC.

The Gozinyas banged Charlie’s Angels in a wild game as they scored easily on eleven occasions. In a battle of the boys from the basements, it was the Cannonballs exploding on the folks from Easy Ed’s Massage Parlor, 11-6.

The Flaming A’s burned the Brewers 7-3; PIKA escaped the Red Sux, 12-11; and the Terminal Hickies planted a good one on Henderson House as they walloped them, 22-8. Chocolate Speedway inched past the Bum Cleavers, 24-18, in a defensive struggle.

Porky (no relation to Summy) Pig enjoyed EMBO, 6-4. All coeds that know what Embo means raise your hand.

Christian's Pottery Shop

New stoneware pieces each week
Spring hours:
Tues.- Sat. 1- 5:30
Sun. 2-5

1 mile north of Davidson on Hwy. 115

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

CONTRACEPTION COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PREGNANCY TESTING

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

It was too bad for the Goodwinites as they suffered a loss to No Name 7-3. The SPE’s rushed past Wood’s Hole as they outbid them 12-7.

This week’s action provided a few minor shifts in the Bad Bernie-Hogman Terrific Ten:

1. Off Again .980
2. Your Face .974
3. Presto’s Grille .970
4. Flaming A’s .959
5. Cannonballs .952
6. KA .950
7. Gozinyas .944
8. Baby Rick’s Bar & Grill .936
9. SPE #1 .918
10. Jungle Queen .912

Hopefully, the weather will improve so that this column can. See you Tuesday. Later.

CARL McPHAIL

Athlete of the Week

McPhail hurdles barriers

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

Running has become a fad. With the advent of Spring comes the donning of the running shoes, the athletic shorts, the T-shirts and sweat suits. Everyone and his brother is running long, hard miles on the track, on the cross-country course, down Grey Road, or up the stairs of the gym. But for Carl McPhail running is no fad. He's been doing it for a long time.

McPhail, a native of Charlotte, began running in junior high school. He became more interested in the sport, and continued running when he left Charlotte to go to high school in Chattanooga, Tennessee. The program at McCallie (high school) was especially tough and competitive, an indication of its vitality at the school was, evidently, the number of coaches the team needed.

“We had at least four or five coaches, some of them football coaches,” commented McPhail.

McPhail’s main interest was in hurdling; his father hurdled for Davidson “ages ago,” and his brother was a hurdler also.

McPhail did well during his high school running years, winning district and regional meets; but he lamented he never did win a state meet, which was what he really wanted.

Here at Davidson, McPhail competes in the 110 meter high hurdles, the 400-meter intermediate hurdles, the triple jump, and some of the relays.

McPhail has done very well in his events, placing first a large part of the time. He modestly commented that he was “no better than any of the other team members,” but seemed to think that the competition just hasn’t been exceptional.

McPhail believes that the Davidson track team has a lot of potential and had hoped that it would get its feet off the ground next year.

No go. There are problems concerning next year. “The track program is good here, but I think the team should have its own coach next year.”

The newly hired soccer coach will double as a track coach, while Coach Martin will succeed Chip Stone.

“It’s really a shame since there’s such an interest this year, a great facility...but no track coach.”

But McPhail will keep running, just like he always has. “I realize there are people who need to study all day, but I think getting exercise is really good for you. I know I couldn’t just sit in the library all day without exercising.”

When McPhail is not running his two or more hours a day, however, he is studying. An economics major, he is preparing himself for business or law school.

“If not some sort of graduate school, I’ll go right into business. After all, I came here for the academics.”

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE
Available in Charlotte starting April 12, 1977.

7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O. Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253