6 The Davidsonian ~~ October 28, 1977

Opinion

Panama Canal’s fate lies with us

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

My belief in this country’s concern for others is affirmed when I hear the international issue of the Panama Canal
being discussed by students on the Davidson campus. It is interesting that the fate of this canal has stimulated the
ideas and the ideals of those who will inevitably help to design Panama’s future. However, I am feeling that an
overwhelming game of political strategy is shadowing the real issue of the self-determination of the people of Panama. Politicians who
should have the knowledge of the Panamanian situation are catering to our emotionalism of sovereignty instead of speaking to the
actual issue at hand.

Somehow, many Americans have been fooled into thinking that the Canal zone has been just peachy since the signing of
the 1903 treaty which ‘gave the U.S. control over the zone for the purpose of building, maintaining and defending a
canal ‘with rights as if they were sovereign.’’ Somehow, we forget that the ten-mile-wide, fifty-mile-long canal divides the small country
of Panama, that the revenues of her geographical resource do not return to her, and that a spirit of nationalism
could spring forth, causing her to rebel against her colonial keeper. Somehow we don’t realize the amount of friction present
between the American community living in the canal zone and the Panamanians. Their separateness is especially emphasized in the 1964
incident lasting five days and costing the lives of over twenty people; all stemming from the raising of a lone
American flag at Balboa High School. Perhaps we do not realize that Panamanians ‘‘provide 80 percent of the personnel who
operate the canal’’ but are ‘‘deliberately kept from the highest positions.’’ (report published by the 1976 General Assembly of the
United Presbyterian Church, U.S.A.)

Two treaties

The two treaties in the spotlight do not suggest that the United States simply write off the Canal Zone as
a giveaway and completely desert it. The first of the two treaties would turn over control of the waterway by
the turn of the century. The second treaty ‘‘would enable the U.S. to guarantee the Canal’s neutrality,’’ meaning that the
United States would see that the locks are open to the world’s shipping. Many people rightly fear the results of
Panamanian control. I found my solace in Time, Newsweek, U.S. News and World Report, Business Monthly, and papers written by
major national church denominations for the following reasons:

1) Panama’s ability to run the Canal: the transition period is purposely lengthy. In that period of approximately 23 years,
the new controllers could be expertly trained by the U.S. workers.

2) Military Security: there is a question as to whether military security is possible for the canal. Its architecture makes
it quite vulnerable to ‘‘conventional sabotage’’ no matter who runs it. The canal is seen as a convenience rather than
a strategic area for the defense and security of the U.S. since we now have a two-ocean navy (which includes
ships that have outgrown the canal).

Democrats vow to unseat Helms

By CHUCK GADDY
Staff Writer

Of the 33 Senatorial elections to be conducted next year, the one at this point which promises to attract the
greatest national attention is one anticipated right here in North Carolina, for the seat currently held by Jesse Helms. This
contest holds particular significance because it will determine whether Helms, an outspoken and unambiguous personality who produces either intense loyalty
or extreme dislike, will maintain a front position in national affairs.

Some of the preliminary action in this struggle was brought to Davidson last Wednesday with the visit of McNeill Smith,
a major contender for the Democratic nomination for the U.S. Senate. Smith’s appearance included a reception with the faculty and
a meeting with the Davidson Young Democrats Club, and, as far as politicians go these days, he seemed a noteworthy
success. Part of this was due to the fact that Smith, an accomplished trial lawyer, spoke and interacted impressively with
the students and faculty. But a more important reason is that the present state senator from Greensboro has been a
recognized leader in civil rights and other social concerns in North Carolina and his unchallengeable ‘‘liberalness’’ seems to endear him
to many of the Democrats on campus.

When Blacks conducted their first sit-in demonstrations at a Woolworth’s lunch counter in Greensboro in 1960, Smith was one of
the first to telegraph the company with a plea for ‘‘openness on an equal basis’’ and the suggestion that nothing
was solved until it was solved properly and fairly. He later helped work out an agreement which led to the
dismantling of segregational barriers in Greensboro. Smith has appeared in many civil liberties cases in court and, in the mid-1960s,
he chaired the state chapter of the U.S. Advisory Committee on Civil Rights.

In the North Carolina General Assembly, Smith’s apparent capacity for limitless work has earned him the name of the ‘Bionic
Legislator.’’ In the 1973-74 session, for example, he sponsored 155 bills, 57 of which became law. His major legislating efforts
have been in promoting tax reform, education, decreasing utility rates, and energy development.

Competing with Smith for the Democratic nomination are Luther Hodges Jr., former President of the North Carolina National Bank in
Charlotte and the son of a popular governor; E. Lawrence Davis, a state senator from Winston-Salem; David McKnight, a Fayetteville
newspaperman; and Joe Felmet of Winston-Salem.This group, Hodges, Smith, and Davis all display particular strengths, but no clear front-runner has
yet established himself. This is demonstrated by the fact that many party regulars remain undecided. Further speculation revolves around the
possible candidacies of Rufus Edmisten, state attorney general, and John R. Ingman, the unconventional state commissioner of insurance. If so,
either would likely win the primary. Luther Hodge, Jr., has been secured for Nov. 30, 1977, to address the Davidson
Democratic Club. The popular opinion concerning the prospects for the general election at this point tends to favor Helms. The
former news commentator from Raleigh is undoubtedly a formidable campaigner, but two potential impediments to his re-election need to be
examined: 1) How much of a disadvantage is his Republican label and 2) Has Helms’ brand of ultra-conservatism disaffected a
significant number of voters?

For a number of years, the GOP had been gradually gaining strength in North Carolina. Nixon's landslide in 1972 represented
the culmination of this trend and brought N.C. Republicans a significant increase in state and national legislators, the Governor’s office,
and victory to Helms, their candidate for the U.S. Senate. But then the downfall of Nixon, and the accompanying rise
to national eminence of Democrat Sam Ervin, proved disastrous to Republican hopes in North Carolina. In 1973, Democrats won all
state elections by substantial margins, and then last fall Jimmy Carter and Jim Hunt inflicted even more damage to the
state GOP, though Carter’s regional appeal and the ineffectiveness of incumbent Republican governor James E. Holshouser also affected the outcome.

This implied Republican weakness is further accentuated by the fact that a number of Republicans are against Helms. As one
conscientious Republican on campus, Jimmy Peters, explained to me: “I would like to see Helms defeated because he projects an
undesirable image for our party, even threatening its unity.” Some of the traditional, “moderate” Republicans of the western and piedmont
sections of the state would rather see a Democrat elected than further domination of the Party by Helms people. Whether
Helms has traveled too far to the right for North Carolina probably can’t be adequately determined until election day. In
many respects, North Carolina must be considered conservative—Reagan’s victory here last year is indicative of this—although this is only reflective
of those that voted in the Republican primary.

A defeat of Helms would be a significant setback for the ultra-conservatives in this country and the faction of the
GOP demanding ideological “purity.” While a Helms’ victory would be a crush particularly for unions, Blacks, and progressives. The national
consequences of this contest, the large effort anticipated from both sides, and the intense passions involved promise an interesting campaign.

The Panamanian government has become aware of what the second treaty implies. General Omar Herrera, though a military dictator, said
that the agreement puts the canal “under the Pentagon's defense umbrella.”

U.S. trade: Our trade has relied on the canal less and less. In 1964, nine percent of our trade relied
on the canal. The 1977 figure is four percent. All of those practical matters are outshined by the issue of
human rights. A few people seem to think only of what or of how much the so-called “ownership” of the
canal means to the United States... and what its absence would mean to us.

Self-determination: It would be an astounding realization to see the Panamanians as actual people with real hopes and dreams... and
aspirations. The sense of nationality that we find so important is hard to come by when outsiders are running such
an important part of a country. The fact is, the United States has “never really had a clear conscience about
the 1903 treaty.” The Secretary of State at the time of the treaty said that it was, “vastly advantageous to
the United States, and, we must confess, not so advantageous to Panama.” Translated to 1977 language, “Well, we stole it
fair and square didn’t we?”

There is no such thing as mere politics. National policy decisions must be examined in the light of their moral
implications. Self-determination is a moral, political, economic, and social issue. “Perhaps we’re not talking so much about a canal. We’re
talking about a people and a nation,” commented Archbishop McGrath of Panama. We say that we are for the self-development
of peoples. A positive vote for the Canal treaties will prove our earnestness in our words. The treaties are supported
by the President and the Vice-President of the United States as well as former president Ford, and Henry Kissinger. Other
supporters include Defense Secretary Harold Brown, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, General George Brown, and even the Commander of the
U.S. Forces in the Canal.

Broad support: I am joined in my support by religious groups who see the plight of people as a part
of their gospels: the National Council of the Churches of Christ, 65th General Convention of the Episcopal Church, David Blumberg—president
of B’nai B’rith, 188th General Assembly United Presbyterian Church USA, Administrative Board of the U.S. Catholic Conference, and the United
Methodist Church. However, we still have emotionalism, misunderstanding, and a little (only a little) ignorance working against us. Someone recently
told me that Panama should control the canal zone. I asked if the Panamanians were able to control it. The
reply was “who cares?—we can’t really handle it; The Panamanians are ready to become a nation of self-worth. It is
up to us to help, to enhance, and to free.
