The Davidsonian [Hunter Ténnings] —— October 28, 1985

Council settles social policy
By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

The Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) in a meeting this week approved a proposal dealing with the scheduling of social events during the week. This proposal will now be sent to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. for his approval.

Experiential programs offer expansion in education
By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

Director of Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning Ken Woods describes the role of his office as one of helping “students find off-campus experiences that still contribute to their personal growth and development.” This program can provide students with the opportunity to gain exposure to other cultures, reflect on personal interests, values, and goals, investigate career possibilities, and to discover and test skills.

“My job,” says Woods, “is to help students clarify what their interests are, and then to help them find the experience that fits.” He stresses that “students need to begin from within to find out where their enthusiasm and energy is focused.” Once this focus has been considered, the student is free to work with the office to develop a plan specifically adapted to his individual needs.

One of the opportunities available to students is participation in a career service program. A student chooses a career option that interests him and designs a program which will enable him to gain some experience working in that area. These internships can last from one term to an entire year. During this time the student is registered as a career service student and is guaranteed a place at Davidson when he returns. It is possible to receive academic credit for such work experiences. This year there are six Davidson students serving internships as teachers in Kenya.

It is also possible to participate in part-time internships in Charlotte. In this case, a student would remain at Davidson and take two or three courses in addition to working in a county government department, law office, counseling service, or any enterprise he chooses.

An extern program has been designed to allow students to explore career interests on a short-term basis. For up to one week, students are exposed to a particular vocation or setting to observe and learn more about that particular career. According to Woods, many Davidson students have established valuable contacts while participating in programs of this sort and have received job offers as a result.

To become involved in an extern program, a student chooses his job and location preferences. Woods then makes the necessary contacts with alumni and other friends of the college who are connected with the student’s occupational choice, and sets up the externship. These externships usually take place during Spring Break, although they can be set up for any time a student feels he can spare a week.

The Office is currently working on a program that would be connected with the Outward Bound school. Designed as a summer program for rising sophomores and juniors, this would involve, according to Woods, nine days to two weeks of intensive outdoor pursuit dealing with the question of “What now?”

Several times during the year, Woods takes a group of students to the Appalachian Mountains to observe and talk with the people in the medical field who approach their work with a humanistic outlook and a genuine concern for people.

Every term a centering-venturing workshop is offered to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. The purpose of this program is to help eachstudent match: his particular strengths, abilities, lifestyle, self-attitude, and values with his concept of the types of people he’d like to work with, the environment he’d prefer to live in, and the world problems he feels need attention. Having arrived at some basic decisions, the student then considers the ways in which he could go about achieving his goals. A Centering-Venturing workbook consisting of questions, exercises, and information is used in the workshop. This fall the second edition is being printed and is available free for all those participating in the workshop. Other students may purchase it for $1.00. Wood emphasizes that not all students have to decide immediately what they want to do for the rest of their lives, but rather should “think in terms of what they want to try.” Anyone who is interested in trying any of these programs or would like to know more about other ways he can turn his ideas into experiences should contact Ken Wood or Suzie Summers in the Office of Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning in the Union Basement.

According to the proposal, “social campus-wide events should be scheduled to provide a balance of cultural, educational, and social events.” Campus-wide events were defined as events: “a) to which all students are invited and a substantial number are expected to attend and, b) which require a significant portion of time.” These events, the proposal stated, “will generally be scheduled on Friday and Saturday nights.” According to Dean of Students and chairman of the CCRL, Will H. Terry, the proposal, if approved by the president, will “serve as a guideline for scheduling.” He went on to add that the proposal is merely the written form of an already understood policy.

William Barnes, Jr.
Susan Walker Baynard
Kathryn Tomlinson Bridges
Nancy Richardson Brown
Roger Henry Brown
Emilie Watkins Bryan
Margaret Frances Campbell
Brian Roland Coffey
John O’Neal Craig, III
Gilbert Journell Cuthbertson
Michel Clayton Daisley
Ann Gray Harvey
Henry Clifton Hester
Bruce Robert Holliday
Matthew Brooke Horne
William Savage Hutchings, II
Who’s Who
Clarence Foster Jennings, Jr.
Steven George Justus
David Wilson Keller, III
Catherine Elaine Landis
Stantford Frank Martin
Virginia Eleanor Newell
Barbara Lynn Payne
Jayne Louise Reich
Thomas C. Pinckney, III
Paul Christian Schleiter
Howard Judson Silver, III
Stephen Jerome Smith
Elizabeth Ann Tanner
David Knox Winkler
Olivia Cacedia Ware
Angela Hope Wright
Thomas Meares Young

more budget [Continued from page 1]

are looking for name recognition and alumni support. In the ’60s virtually all publicity talked about the phenomenon of a small college with high academic standards playing big-time basketball. That cannot be denied.” Spencer indicated his opposition to subsidizing other college sports. He gave three reasons. “First, I think it is the kind of thing there is no stopping. This is what happened with football. We did not start out with 52 grants, just a few.” “Second, I do not think it is a necessary expenditure. We would not get enough for our money.” “And finally, I am afraid the students without scholarships would be pushed to the bottom.” [Hunter Jennings]

more money [Continued from page 1]

currently underway, Dittman said that the project is progressing “very promisingly.” “That's a unique strong point we have here,” proclaimed Dittman. “There is not a penny of debt.” “In the first fifteen months (beginning July '76) more than $4.5 million has been given or committed,” he added. Concerning funds to renovate Martin Science Building, Dittman confirmed that he is “hoping for some good news in the very near future.”