September 23, 1977

The Davidsonian

Goudys show that mod has nothing to do with age

RELIGION BROUGHT George and Monrovia Goudy to town almost ten years ago. Religion, coupled with a strong love of Davidson
students, still keeps them active today. Ever bored? "Heavens No!" they insist. [Gregg Strader]

Center for elderly opens at local railroad depot

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

In a town saturated with programs for young people, a group of concerned citizens have finally decided to pay attention
to the needs of the retired. The Davidson Community Cooperative Services, Inc., was recently formed to provide services for those
over 60.

Local residents have formed the Davidson Community Cooperative Services, Inc., an agency designed to promote the mobilization and integration of
resources to people over 60 in Davidson. Directed by Brigid O’Connor, a gerontologist from Charlotte, the organization provides two primary
types of services to the elderly: referrals to available services, and a Senior Center located at the Depot.

O’Connor describes the project as "basically a community project to meet some needs that (the founders) felt older people in
Davidson had." The Mecklenburg County Council on Aging can fill most of these needs, but because the Council has over
42,000 members and Davidson is so far from Charlotte, Davidson’s citizens are not receiving adequate services, she said.

The program proposal, written in April 1977, describes the needs of the older citizens in the town "living independently on
modest incomes who want to remain in their own homes." An information and referral service is needed to inform the
elderly of the publicly-funded programs in Mecklenburg County, O’Connor said. At present, transportation to grocery stores, physicians, and the public
programs are non-existent in Davidson.

Home-health care is available now only through a limited number of the County Health Department home health nurses who must
be secured through a physician. Even when an elderly person has a home health nurse, personal health care such as
baths, shaves, and haircuts are not available. Along with health care, no Department of Social Services Chore Services are available
to invalids because of the community’s distance from Charlotte, O’Connor explained. Reassuring phone calls and social contact through either group
meetings or visitations are needed to counteract the loneliness caused by little or no mobility.

[see DEPOT, page 12]

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Every morning when the weather’s nice, an old snow-haired man and his small smiling wife park their car behind Cunningham
Fine Arts Building and amble down Dormitory Row. Whenever given a chance, they stop and talk to students. Green sunglasses
are clipped onto the man’s hornrims, making his broad face seem very pale. His shirt is dull-colored and his pants
are very large and baggy. The woman's dress is very bright. They are holding hands.

When they reach Sentelle, George and Monrovia Goudy pivot and walk across to the library. Then they stroll onto the
Union steps. They part, she sitting on one of the new benches outside and he plodding assuredly up to the
Union desk to check on college announcements.

Like many other retired couples in Davidson, the Goudys look to the college as a source of entertainment and vitality.
They have lived in this community for almost ten years, each year relying more heavily on student contacts. "It is
the central activity of our lives—absolutely," proclaimed Mrs. Goudy.

Besides taking their morning walk, they regularly attend Fine Film showings in Love Auditorium. They come to hear visiting speakers
and student debates. They haven't missed one Sunday night Davidson Christian Fellowship meeting since they can remember.

"The students, the things that go on there, the social and cultural activities—it’s just wonderful. It’s stimulating to live here,
to live near a college," said Mrs. Goudy. She added in a whisper-like sigh, "UpHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"On campus is so lovely." If anything keeps the couple from becoming even more active in the college, it is
not their age and infirmity—they have even audited college courses on occasion—but uncontrollable outside factors. Like nightfall. "We don't like
to drive at night. So there is a problem in going to activities then. But generally, if something starts before
dark we can manage," explained Mr. Goudy. He likes the friendliness of Davidson students. "This business of friendly greetings. It
does an awful lot. To my mind, it is more a mark of Davidson than anything else I can think
of. Everybody speaks to everybody," said Mr. Goudy. His wife's eyes flared up in quick disagreement. "The freshmen are cold
as Sam Hill right now," Mrs. Goudy ejected. "They just don’t speak." "Oh, the freshmen are always like that," he
countered. "They have to learn." But the couple agreed that no one has ever actually been rude to them. And
if most fall-term freshmen aren’t in the habit of speaking to the Goudys, they are in no way guilty of
not speaking to freshmen. Each year they make it a habit to ask for a freshman handbook. Every time they
can get a freshman to talk to them, they go home and check off his name in the booklet and
make a notation of the date. Then they try to learn names. The Goudys don't consider the time they spend
on campus as the idle distraction of two old people bored by too much television. Mr. Goudy frankly considers it
a ministry. "I was a materialistic atheist until I met C.S. Lewis' books in defense of Christianity. At the time
I was a traffic engineer working for ATT in New York City. I was commuting every morning from New Jersey.
I only had a few years left with the company before retirement, so we thought it would be practical to
wait until then before going out to witness. We think the Lord sent us here to Davidson," he recounted. In
1968, the Goudys came to Davidson on an invitation from a Charlotte minister to operate a religious bookstore here. They
ran the bookstore for a year and a half and then began looking for more intimate ways to present their
beliefs to students. "I looked around for things I could do to give a witness of some sort. We tried
to branch out on our own and started making contacts with students," he said. The couple began to attend Bible
classes long before DCF was ever formed. They invited students over to their house for supper. They tried to matter.
"We had a job of our own to do here so we stayed on," said Mr. Goudy with a determined
look in his eyes. The Goudys said they were sympathetic with the problems other people their age around the nation
are having, but because of their "job" they deny ever having shared those problems. They aren't much for self-pity. They
said they were never bored. "No, we're not bored. Heavens, no. We never have time to be bored." Their love
for each other and for their young campus friends have kept the Goudys going. "Many people have com- [see GOUDY,
page 12]

BECOME A COLLEGE CAMPUS DEALER
Sell Brand Name Stereo Components at lowest prices. High profits; NO INVESTMENT REQUIRED. For details, contact: FAD Components, Inc. Passaic
Ave., P.O. Box 689, Fairfield, New Jersey 07006 Ilene Orlowsky 201-227-6884

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.

First Union National. DAVIDSON

---
