The Davidsonian
April 15, 1977

Melodies of the East Come South
By TONIA DEVON
Guest Writer

Satiated with a delicately spiced meal, you lean back in your chair, shut your eyes, and listen to whispers, laughter,
and quarrels which surround you. An average Saturday night at the 900 Room? Not this time. The interplay of emotions,
the tête-à-tête, is not that of the other students there but one created by two Indian instruments, the sitar and
the tabla. Both create vocal effects conveying varied emotions. Saturday night Krishna Bhatt and Peter Perringer will give a concert
of South Asian music.

Sri Bhatt, a celebrated young musician who has given concerts in Japan, Europe, the United States, and South Asia, will
play the sitar. The sitar, and the musical tradition which houses it, are difficult to master, if, indeed, anyone can
be said to master something which is termed the “Music of Discovery.” It is a tradition where the basic structure,
the raga, is born anew each time it is played. As one musician has put it, “each raga, in the
hands of the truly gifted performer, sits calmly like a flower on its stem. Its meaning is not a mere
polish of veneer, something essentially unfinished, a fugitive, flashing thing. Because it lives, it refuses to be held. Each time
you hear a raga, it is the helpless, vulnerable opening of a soul to reality’s infinite wonder...the validity of a
great musician thus is proof as much to a skill with life as it is in singing or playing.”

Ten years would be a modest requirement for the attainment of modest skill in a student of the sitar. Most
South Indians, Mr. Bhatt included, are born into musical families and begin studying early in their childhood. It is the
shine of...

SITARIST KRISHNA BHATT will give two concerts Saturday night at 8 and 9:30 pm in the 900 Room. The sitar,
together with the tabla, makes “leela” (which is to the South Asian a “divine play” or “jest”). The tabla, played
by Peter Perringer, is a set of two drums. It is the most popular percussion instrument of the northern part
of South Asia. The tabla, tapped with the right hand, is made of wood and the one at the left
hand is of metal. For the devotee of Indian music, the unfolding beauty of the music emerges from the search
for knowledge of the mysterious, divine side of the world, but the bonus of pleasure which emerges from this...

It Ain’t Art But It Beats Charlie’s Angels
By KEVIN SHELLY
Staff Writer

If you can manage to forget Northrop Frye and not invite Gil Holland as your dinner companion, you just might
enjoy “Tom Jones,” the production at the Pineville Dinner Theatre. I did, which is pretty convincing considering that I’m an
off-and-on aesthete and occasional literary critic.

First, dinner theatre is not theatre in your basic English major definition of the word. Entertainment — yes. Theatre a
la Chekhov et al. — no. If you go with the right expectations you won't be disappointed, as with most
things in life. The physical set-up of the theatre is nice, with seating on three levels. If you want to
make sure to have a table to yourself, reserve well in advance or you may be sharing your dinner conversation
with another group of people.

The food, a major portion of the evening, was surprisingly good. Lots of fresh salad makings, crunchy appetizers, chicken, and
roast beef as you like it. The only thing that gets bad marks are the soggy vegetables that suffer from
stewing in their own juices too long. Iced tea or coffee comes with dinner and wine and set-ups are also
available.

The play, “Tom Jones,” leaves me with mixed feelings. Most of the problem is with the writing, not the production.Although
the narrator of the play begins by explaining that it is a loose adaptation of “Tom Jones,” I still expected
the spirit and style of Fielding’s novel, but was disappointed on that expectation. Instead of the gentle bawdiness and wit
of the novel, this adaptation thrived on slapstick humor and overt sexuality. The infamous food scene between Tom and his
supposed mother Jenny at the inn is a good example—instead of slowly building up the desire as in the novel,
the couple resorts to blending smoothies on each other. Tom is not the sympathetic, good-hearted, amoral fellow he was a
few hundred years ago. Frankly, I didn’t give a damn about his succeeding and winning his true love Sophia because
he was simply a selfish liar, not a misdirected hero. Sophia’s sweet, patient innocence is not allowed to be developed
either because the playwright dwells on the bawdy scenes at the expense of the areas that would add depth and
interest to the characters. Fielding utilizes the narrator to broaden to do this, but in the play, the narrator has
a sex change and is used primarily as an adornment and scene setter. Her dialogue lacks the wry wit and
sharp observation, leaving the characters two-dimensional. The music tells the story, such as it is, but is instantly forgettable. Most
of the players are good and some are excellent. Although all but one of the females seemed to have been
picked more for the size of their breasts than their ability. One was “Miss Indiana” twice. The characters of Blifil,
Thwackum, and Square are uniformly excellent. Square, who has a molish face and Chuck Kennon coiffure, and Thwackum, short and
corpulent, provide a major portion of the evening’s fun. It was a pleasant evening all in all—it probably had more
worth than a month of “Charlie’s Angels” even if it was not ART. God knows Charlotte ain’t London or New
York—be thankful for whatcha got. For additional information on the Pineville Dinner Theatre, call for dates, directions, and prices. LOVE
$1.00 search will be there for anyone in the Saturday audience to enjoy. Those attuned not only to Indian music
but also to culinary delights of South Asia, reserve seats for the 7 pm dinner before the concert are available
at the Union desk.

Preview Poitier changes image
By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

Sidney Poitier gained his fame as an actor largely through performances of profundity and dignity, such as A Raisin in
the Sun, Lilies of the Field, A Patch of Blue, and To Sir With Love. In all these films, with
the exception of Raisin, Poitier played a kind of Black Ambassador to an Ignorant White World. Hollywood filmmakers evidently felt
that the white filmgoers who paid their bills would consider Poitier “safe.” Probably with a great deal of pleasure, Poitier
turned to Uptown Saturday Night, a comedy featuring him both as star and director, which is this week’s Pop Film
attraction. Uptown is decidedly not profound, as its cast alone would indicate. Poitier plays a man named Steve Jackson who,
together with his cabbie friend Wardell Franklin (Bill Cosby), goes out for a night on the town. And in a
stick-up, he loses his wallet containing his wife’s very valuable lottery ticket. Steve and Wardell decide they must try to
recover the wallet and enlist the aid of a private eye named Sharp Eye Washington (played by Richard Pryor, a
great success in the recent Silver Streak). Among the characters they run into are a gang leader played by Harry
Belafonte (that’s right—Harry Belafonte), a crooked politician played by Roscoe Lee Brown, and a revival preacher played by Flip Wilson.
In short, it’s a long way from building a chapel for nuns or teaching the facts of life to cocky
schoolkids.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
Uptown Saturday Night
FRIDAY 8:00 & 10:30
