UP and COMING

Friday, January 14, 1977
Transcendental Meditation
Swimming: Madison
Philosophy Club Presentation: "The Relationship Between Theology and Philosophy"
Large Conf. Room Davidson
Morrison Room Rusk House
Eu and Phi Halls 900 Room
Conference Room Morrison Room
Love Auditorium N. C. Fellows
Kappa Alpha Convivium '77
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance"

Saturday, January 15, 1977
Living Endowment Leadership Conf.
Transcendental Meditation
Wrestling: Davidson, VMI, Citadel, and Elon
Swimming: Augusta
Basketball: Dartmouth
5 pm Life/Work Planning Conf. Room
Blue Mtg. Room Johnston Gym
Davidson Charlotte Coliseum
900 Room
6:30 pm Davidson Christian Fellowship
7 pm

Monday, January 17, 1977
10 am Transcendental Meditation
1 pm Honors Center Luncheon
2:45 pm Yoga Class
Campus Life Sub-Committee

Kelly highlights slant directors add to plays
By ELLEN SCHLAEFER
Staff Writer

Davidson had a rare opportunity Thursday to see Shakespeare from a different slant than that usually presented by the English
department. Judy F. Kelly of the University of Dallas presented a mini-seminar on Shakespeare as a man of the Theatre.
Mrs. Kelly, who is visiting Davidson with her husband, Patrick Kelly, prepared students for the upcoming presentation of "Twelfth Night"
by the National Shakespeare Company by introducing four different directors' conceptions for the production of this early Shakespearean comedy. She
is also assisting her husband in the direction of "Alcestis" to be presented on January 19 and 20.

Mrs. Kelly said it was her wish to give people an idea of just what goes into producing a play.
"Lots of people think directors just get a few people together, tell them where to stand or move around and
rehearse lines and then that’s it," she said, "they don’t think there is an artistic concept involved. Every costume, prop,
piece of the set is a part of an overall production concept that unifies the production—makes it meaningful for the
audience."

In her lecture, Mrs. Kelly emphasized much of what is taught in a Shakespeare class at Davidson. She stressed that
the playwright is an artist whose medium is made of certain elements from the realm of literature and others from
theatre. The language, imagery, metaphor, rhythm, and literary devices such as themes, plot, character, etc., are only part of the
medium the playwright includes. Important also are the specific theatre, audience, and actors and acting styles the playwright writes for.

Mrs. Kelly then presented a slide lecture on the Globe Playhouse, Elizabethan audience, and Elizabethan actors and their styles. Then
she asked each one to think of how they would cast "Twelfth Night." During the supper break, everybody was asked
to create a production using people they knew, actors, historical figures, or whatever and come back prepared to discuss it.

After supper, Mrs. Kelly talked about four productions she had seen. Included were the 1969/1971 Royal Shakespeare Company production, directed
by John Barton, in which the director had envisioned "Twelfth Night" as a Feast of Misrule, a sentimental journey into
middle age; the 1974 production, also by the RSC, directed by Peter Gill; the Canadian Shakespeare Company of Stratford, Ontario,
version directed by David Jones; and the 1971 Arena Stage of Washington, D.C., production, directed by Jeff Bleckner. By using
each production she illustrated how a director works.When he has a play written for different theatrical elements, all of which
have changed except the text, “Consequently, the director seeks to preserve the integrity of the play by translating its form,
that mysterious blending of the playwright’s medium, into the modern theatrical milieu,” she told us. “The director has taken the
place of the absent playwright.”

January 14, 1977
NC PIRG
Transcendental Meditation
Rediscovering American Movies: “Freaks” 10 pm
Union Board Meeting 10 pm

Tuesday, January 18, 1977
10 am Artist Series: National Shakespeare Company: “Twelfth Night”
12:30 pm Women at Davidson Discussion
2 pm Grand Opening — Art Gallery Open End with Dr. Spencer
4:30 pm CROP Hunger Relief Meal
7 pm Worship Service
8 pm Artist Series: National Shakespeare Company: “Romeo and Juliet”
9:30 pm Reception

Wednesday, January 19, 1977
1 pm Dance Class
2:30 pm Juggling Workshop
4 pm Must Live
4:30 pm Jam Session
7 pm Performance: “Alcestis”
8 pm John McEwen

Thursday, January 20, 1977
10 am Davidson Christian Fellowship
12 pm Honors Center Film: “The River”
2 pm Pre-Management Committee
4 pm Basketball: Athletes in Action

Morrison Room
DCPC Conference Room
Love Auditorium
Morrison Room
Honors Center Lounge
900 Room
Morrison Room
Drama Workshop Theatre
Davidson 900 Room
Banquet Hall
Love Auditorium
Drama Workshop Theatre

Shakespeare fills day
By BILL PITMAN
Staff Writer

“If music be the food of thought, play on.” Where from all ye students of the liberal arts? If “Twelfth
Night” sprang into your mind, you were right. It’s the opening line, as it has been for hundreds of years,
and will be this Tuesday at 2 pm when the National Shakespeare Company appears in Love Auditorium.

“Twelfth Night” is the amusing story of a beautiful shipwrecked lass, Viola, who disguises herself as a man and finds
employment with a local Duke. He sets about helping to win his chosen lady, affections get crossed, Viola’s twin brother
appears, and chaotic comedy is produced as only the Bard could. The N.S.C. version is directed by Mario Siletti and
stars Nancy Hammill as Viola, Bert Kruse as Duke Orsino, Alison Edwards as Olivia, and Kim Traegar as Viola’s twin,
Sebastian.

At 8:15 pm the same night, the company will also present the love story that never grows grey, “Romeo and
Juliet.” Philip Meister, director of “Romeo and Juliet” and co-founder of the company, tells of the group’s beginnings of passion
and high finance which led to success. “In 1963, Elaine Sulka, who had just performed Goneril in ‘King Lear’ at
Stratford, and I were asked to do an anthology show for Upsala College in East Orange, N.J. The fee was
$15. We spent it all on postage, formed the company, wrote and called people, and in a short time had
enough bookings for a six-week Shakespeare tour. We then hired our actors, picked our plays, rented a bus, and off
we went.”

Since that time, the non-profit organization has performed for schools all over America, giving actors a chance to perform the
classics and students a chance to experience them. According to Meister, they don't toy with the master. “We insist on
doing our Shakespeare straight.”
