March 11, 1977

Angela Barnett

“Restoration is a funny field. It’s a hard circuit. And it’s a hard circuit to break into.” Angela Barnett spoke
from experience. Over spring break, she went to Williamsburg to explore the art of restoration. The preliminary connections were arranged
through the Office for Experiential Programs, and from there Angela scheduled meetings with an architectural historian, a curator, and the
director of education at Williamsburg.

“I was initially interested in seeing which field of restoration I should pursue, either the structural aspect or the decorative
art aspect. The tours opened up other directions, for example, the field of sociology through architecture. The big thing about
Williamsburg is that no one knows anything about the people who lived in the houses. There’s a big gap in
knowledge when it comes to the social life. Through restoration, patterns can be unearthed.”

Angela was also exposed to the problems of restoration, such as the dilemma of whether to restore the architecturally important
structures or the historically important ones. She saw how specialized people have to be to work in Williamsburg. “It takes
four years of training after graduate school to be good enough to work on your own.”

Angela summed up her week in Williamsburg by saying, “The most important part was exploring the various aspects of restoration,
seeing how important methodology and research are to restoration, and finding out that you have to be damn good at
it to get in.”

Margaret Anne Bumgarner

“You sort of have to psyche yourself into all this blood and guts. Birth is an act accompanied by an
unbelievable amount of blood and guts,” said Margaret Anne Bumgarner after witnessing two births during her Spring Break Externship. Margaret
is interested in rural medicine. She located Dr. Judi McGahey, a country doctor, in Spruce Pine, N.C., through Ken Wood’s
office. She was especially impressed when she heard that Dr. McGahey had invited Appalachian women in to witness her own
children being born. This ‘public birth’ was to help rid the Appalachian women of superstitions they have about childbearing,” explained
Margaret. “This is an example of the public health program that is being used in Yancey County. It is aimed
at exploding myths.”

Margaret continued, “I saw how public health programs consider emotional aspects of the patient’s life, and how these programs explain
everything to the patients to try and take out the mystery.” Margaret also saw how a woman doctor balances a
family and a career and gets joy out of both.

Ron Chappel gave his own philosophy for photography. “The trick is to find a scene that expresses something and then
work for composition. But a lot of it is serendipity.” In search of new techniques, Ron also works with his
prints in the darkroom, cutting and combining to create a new effect. “It’s rewarding when you see the final print
and you see that you’ve caught something.”

Ron often takes off for a day or two to search for scenes. His portfolio includes pictures of natural phenomena,
but he does portraits also. Working with modeling agencies in Charlotte, Ron photographs models and does other commercial work. A
psychology major with photography as a side interest, Ron hopes to have an exhibition at the Peregrine House soon. Photography
is “an evocative process, for me and for the viewer.”the viewer.” He explained how photography is more than self-expression, because
by separating out and capturing little intricacies, he can make people more aware of their world. “Prostaglandin D2 may have
an effect on the renal blood arterial canals.” The sophomore has the knowledge to back that statement. He worked this
past summer with Dr. Alan Nies of the Vanderbilt Medical Center investigating the effects that a newly discovered hormone, prostaglandin
D2, has on blood circulation. He was invited by the Southern Society for Clinical Investigation to present his findings at
their national convention on January 27 in New Orleans. During the convention, he received the Student Research Award. When Chris
was asked what stands out in his mind the most about his experience in New Orleans, he replied, “Bourbon Street.”

Throw your cares and tensions up in the air
By CAROLYN BARNES
Staff Writer

“Habit-forming,” “infectious,” “addictive,” are used to describe juggling which, in its most contagious form, has hit Davidson College Campus. The
jugglers you have seen wandering around the Union lobby are products of the juggling class that meets every Wednesday afternoon
at 2:30 in the Morrison Room. Taught by assistant director of the Union William Brown and freshman Doug Crosby, the
informal class varies in size each week. Brown calls it a “walk-in class” where two or three new people come
every Wednesday. Both Brown and Crosby are experienced jugglers. They juggle mostly for fun, even though Crosby has taken courses
at Florida State University’s Circus School and is considering becoming a clown.

Brown spoke of the public's misconception about juggling. He admitted that he shared this misconception. “Juggling was one of the
things I never believed I could do, but always wanted to. I thought it was for people especially coordinated,” Brown
said. Apparently, even the uncoordinated can master juggling. Crosby explained, “Most people think it’s hard, but it really isn’t. Most
people can do it if they take the time to try.” According to Brown, one of the goals of the
juggling class is to rid people of these illusions. The job is one of “simplifying, de-mythologizing” juggling. The new juggler’s
previous misconceptions about juggling coupled with the rapid results achieved in the class (Brown and Crosby guarantee you will begin
to juggle within fifteen minutes) give the new juggler a sense of accomplishment. He is excited by the discovery that
he can master what he thought was an impossible trick. Perhaps at this moment of discovery, the infectious nature of
juggling is at its strongest. Crosby warned, “If you learn to juggle, you'll want to juggle more than you’ll want
to study.” Steve Peeples, a student in the class, also said, “Don’t do it if you have a lot of
reviews. It’s addictive.”

POSITIONS AVAILABLE

CAMP WINAUKEE

CAMP WINAUKEE is located on Lake Winnipesaukee in the heart of the White Mountains of New Hampshire. The camp is
divided into two separate entities, the mainland camp is for boys ages 6 to 12, the island camp for boys
12 to 16. The mainland camp has 200 boys and a staff of 55 men. The island camp has 100
boys and a staff of 25 men. The camp is privately owned and directed and both campers and counselors come
for a full eight weeks.

REQUIREMENTS: Counselors must be over 19 years of age, have an ability to work effectively with children and wish to
participate in an educational setting of the highest standards. For personal interviews on Wed. March 16, 1:30-5:00 PM contact Suzie
Summers in Office for Experiential Programs.
