The Davidsonian

April 1, 1977

SWINGING a strong backhand, Stuart Boswell returns a volley. (Irv Wilson)

Tennis team suffers slump

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

After losing to Atlantic Christian 5-4 on March 26 and to East Stroudsburg 6-3 on March 28, the Davidson tennis team is showing symptoms of one of the most common ailments in sports—the mid-season slump.

Coach Jeff Frank commented on the two straight losses, “We should have won both matches. Our basic problem is that we are not playing good singles. I hope to take some of the doubles players, who are doing extremely well, and let them play singles so my current singles players will have a chance to practice on their game.”

Despite the two losses, Davidson’s overall record is 10-5 and their record in the Southern Conference is 1-0. Frank hopes the team will recover from its temporary slump before its upcoming matches with teams in the conference.

Several individuals have been outstanding thus far in the season and have avoided any kind of slump.

Mike Barnhill, the number two singles player, has turned in an extraordinary performance this season, winning 14 matches while losing only one.

The number three doubles players, Jeff Lyle and Rick Johnston, both freshmen, have also been hard to defeat. Their record for the season is 10-2.

Allard Castelein, Davidson's top-ranked singles player, has also been a stand-out so far this season, compiling a record of 9-6.

The Wildcats’ next match will be on April 1 against N.C. State. The next home match will be against The Citadel on April 5.

Pritchett recruits new B-ball blood

By HARRY GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

Coach Dave Pritchett has signed a third blue-chip prospect in what appears to be an outstanding recruiting year.

The latest signee is Rich DiBenedetto, a 6’7”, 215 lb. forward from Bergenfield, New Jersey.

Assistant coach Ray Wilson has described DiBenedetto as “a quick, strong player with outstanding leaping ability and a fine shooting touch; an aggressive rebounder who is quick off the floor.”

DiBenedetto has excellent credentials. As a junior at Bergenfield High he averaged 28.5 points (hitting 60 percent from the floor), 17 rebounds, 4 blocked shots, and three assists per game.

He opted to pass up high school ball his senior year in order to play for the Riverside Church team which competes in the New York City-Wide League, a very competitive circuit with exceptional talent.

Pritchett, who believes that DiBenedetto was possibly the most sought after player in New Jersey, comments, “He gives us a degree of rebounding and physical play that we so badly need.

“He has a great shooting touch and is an unbelievable jumper. His versatility as a ball handler is impressive.”

DiBenedetto narrowed his field of college choices to Maryland, Providence, Holy Cross, and several Ivy League schools before choosing Davidson.

RUGGER FRANK HAMILTON turns upfield with the ball. (Irv Wilson)