September 16, 1977 The Davidsonian 5

Twain observes the Bicentennial
By RANDY F. NELSON, Professor of English

[This is the first of a two-part series on Mark Twain and the Bicentennial prepared for The Davidsonian by Mr.
Nelson. Part Two will be featured in next week’s edition.]

I am admonished in many ways that time is pushing me inexorably along. I am approaching the threshold of age:
in 1977 I shall be 142.
Mark Twain

The shouting’s all over, but the “it” is still here: Bicentennialism. It was supposed to have sputtered out sometime between
the arrival of Jimmy Carter and the arrival of Santa Claus last year. It didn’t of course: there are more
speeches, more re-enactments, and a few more parades due until September 3, 1983, the two-hundredth anniversary of the Treaty of
Paris. But the noise has abated, and there is now some time for reflection.

There is a certain irony in the fact that our best national “reflector” has become a national monument in his
own right. The most restless spirit of America’s Centennial era, Samuel Langhorne Clemens, still seethes inside the bronzed image of
Mark Twain. He was our best-known, best-loved, most American author. Today, however, he is probably our least understood and most
misrepresented native writer, this in spite of a continued fondness for his works and a near-continuous stream of Twain anecdotes
and quotations in major periodicals.

Now that it’s over, what would have been his pronouncements on the Bicentennial? My best guess is that Mark Twain
would have spoken out on every major issue—and that the words would have blistered—but his true feelings would have defied
even his own powers of description. We can, nevertheless, make some entertaining and instructive deductions.

By the year of the Centennial, Clemens had already acquired an international reputation; and he was to be known soon
as the friend of presidents, the familiar of kings, and the pet of the privileged classes throughout the world. That
he was also the bitter enemy of all three is one of the paradoxes that keeps Twain scholarship simmering. Sam
Clemens was anything but the simple-hearted purveyor of childhood romance. After his own childhood in antebellum Missouri, Clemens served a
brief stint as a Confederate guerilla, then earned journalistic spurs in the rowdy 1860s as a reporter for various Western
newspapers. Eventually, he married Olivia Langdon, daughter of an Eastern coal tycoon, and finally settled in his beloved Hartford during
the decade of the country’s hundredth birthday. Thus, while adopting New England as his home, he had intimate connections with
every major section of the nation; and when he developed mature artistic strength, he spoke for all of America with
a force unmatched since the period immediately preceding the Revolution.

What Mark Twain had to say about the discrepancy between the spirit of 1776 and that of 1876 was shocking
to audiences who knew him as a mere humorist or the author of children’s books—and it still is. In his
social and political writings, Twain aimed at his own brand of truth as well as entertainment, and his remarks were
not always appreciated. Toward the end of the century, he quipped in his notebook, “Whenever you find that you are
on the side of the majority, it is time to reform.”

Twain’s response to the spirit of

Chambermaids talk back
By REV. HYDEN SEEKER

Most students around the Davidson campus are familiar with the “Chambermaids,” those adoring young maidens who diligently hold the giant
college-seal above the front entrance of the Chambers Building. What a lot of people don’t know is that if you
talk to them in the right way and at the right time, they’ll talk back.

Actually, the Chambermaids aren’t so young anymore. Chalmers Davidson would gladly tell anyone who’d listen that they’ve been up there
for about 50 years. They have seen a lot of freshman classes come and go, so one evening last week
I talked to them in front of Chambers to see if they would tell me anything about the brand new
Davidsonians.

“Gracious, Reverend,” exclaimed the maiden above Orta, “Freshmen always seem to stand out. We thought that when they did away
with the ‘rat’ cap several years ago that we’d have trouble pointing out the freshmen. But it hasn’t been any
trouble at all.”

The maid over Ubi chimed in, “They’re as easy to spot as ever. You can tell that they’re freshmen from
the very first day, when they start unloading all those pictures of their high school sweethearts. Of course, most of
the pictures will be down off the walls by mid-year.”

“Yeah, but that’s during orientation,” I said. “It’s easy to spot freshmen then because practically everybody here then is a
freshman.”

With that, the two maidens looked at each other and burst into tumultuous laughter.

“Oh, really?” said the first maiden. “Try telling that to some of the freshman guys who want to get dates
with the freshman coeds. I couldn’t tell whether there were more freshmen or upperclassmen at that ‘people hunt’.”

The second maiden continued, “Forget about football being the favorite fall sport around here—it couldn’t hold a candle to flipping
through the Wildcat Handbook.”

“I’ve got to hand it to the freshman guys for their persistence, though. I can’t remember when so many of
them have been in and out of Watts.”

“Well that’s because the guys are living in Watts.”this year,” I replied. “The girls are in Cannon.”

“So that’s it. Well, I guess the guys from the Class of '81 will just have to wait on the
classes of ’82, ’83, and '84, won't they?”

“Not if they can help it, I’m sure,” I said. “But tell me, what other characteristics can you spot in
freshmen?”

The first maiden spoke again. “During the first couple days of classes they seem to wander aimlessly, clutching their computerized
schedules, looking for the Chem Building, or trying to figure out which hall is Phi and which one is Eu.

“You can also tell a lot of the time by what they are saying. For instance, if we hear someone
say, ‘Let’s go eat breakfast,’ we can pretty much be assured it’s a freshman.”

“Yes, indeed,” agreed the second maiden. “There are a number of statements like that which are made almost exclusively by
freshmen. Things like, ‘We've got to hurry to Chambers—It’s almost ten ’til!’ and ‘Have you read your Humanities yet?’ and
‘Flickerball, what’s that?’ Then, of course, there’s the most characteristic of them all, ‘I can’t, I’ve got to study.’ You
get the general idea?”

I nodded my head. “And, this year we’ve had a fool-proof method. The freshmen are the only ones not surprised
that Davidson beat Fordham.”

The first maiden chuckled at that, then breathed a heavy sigh. “But you know, Reverend, I really like the freshmen.
They look up at us a lot when they pass by, and most of them kinda smile, like it’s real
nice to be here. Funny, most of them stop doing it by the winter term.”

“I guess they get used to it,” explained the other maiden. “But that’s all right, because the seniors begin doing
it spring term.”

Letter to the Editor

1876 was to do his own blasting of national monuments, laying bare in fictions, speeches, and notebook entries the larger
fictions which had become consecrated national lies. An example from the notebook: “In God We Trust.” It is the choicest
compliment that has ever been paid us, and the most gratifying to our feeling. It is simple, direct, gracefully phrased.
It always sounds well—In God We Trust. I don't believe it would sound any better if it were true.

Strangely enough, Clemens spent much of 1876-77 reading about the French Revolution. He soaked up Yonge’s biography of Marie Antoinette;
Dumas’ The Taking of the Bastille; Taine’s The Ancient Regime; and, most reverently, Carlyle’s The French Revolution, plus countless other
biographies and histories. Although he came down solidly on the side of the Revolutionaries, the reading sharpened further his distaste
for mindlessness and rule by mobocracy. Government itself, he reasoned, must be governed by carefully considered votes: the revolutionary who
surrenders his vote and his reason to the mob becomes no better than the original oppressor.

The celebration of the nation’s hundredth anniversary was prefaced by Credit Mobilier in 1872, the rise of Boss Tweed and
the first hints of his exposure in 1871, the panic of 1873, the nationally publicized adultery trial of the Reverend
Henry Ward Beecher in 1875, the wholesale corruption of the Grant administrations of 1868 and 1872, and flagrant vote buying
in the United States Senate by Kansas Senator Samuel C. Pomeroy (whitewashed by his peers).

Semesters stink

To the Editor:

Cathy Landis’ editorial “Let’s Move to Semesters” (Davidsonian, September 10) implies that with a change to the semester system, Davidson
students would be relieved of pressure, would have more time to spend in extracurricular activities, have time to give their
courses greater attention, and allow students and professors to establish a closer rapport. In short, Miss Landis seems to think
that the semester system would be a panacea for her problems at least.

Miss Landis, however, fails to list objectively all of the drawbacks. She fails to mention that each professor would be
teaching more students, which means more tests to grade, more lectures to prepare, more faces and names to learn, and
so forth. There would be no more time (in this sense) to spend with the students than there would be
under the quarter system.

Miss Landis also fails to mention the corollary to Murphy’s law that “Work expands to fill the time allotted for
it.” Students who don’t get their work done under the quarter system cannot be expected to get it all done
under the semester plan. With only eight courses a year, the student would be cheated out of four courses during
his stay here; that is, four invaluable looks at different mind-expanding subject matters. To obliterate these precious opportunities so as
to enable one more time to “talk to one’s friends,” is not a very bright idea. (It would be superfluous
to add that a change to eight courses would raise serious questions about maintaining Davidson’s academic standards.)

Certainly no academic calendar can please everyone. (I personally prefer the M. Hunter Plan: three weeks of extreme pressure followed
by two months on the beaches of Grand Cayman.) Perhaps in the final sense, it doesn’t make much difference. Certainly
the axiom is true: An academic liberal on a campus with semesters wants to change to quarters, and the conservative
does not; An academic liberal on a campus with quarters wants to change to semesters, and the conservative does not.
But then the grass always seems to be greener....

Martin Hunter ’80
Davidson College
