January 14, 197 Review By PATRICK COVINGTON Staff Writer Fred Wilson, an employee of the Petrox Corporation, stands on the
deck of a ship docked in Surabaya, raises his glass toward a colleague, and says with a smile, “Here’s to
the big one.” The scene is from the opening segment of Dino DeLaurentiis’ new production of King Kong, and, like
other lines in the film, can be applied to the film itself. DeLaurentiis sunk more than $20 million into this
film and the chances are he'll get that back and much, much more, because the film is an Event; that
is, lots of people who go to movies will feel that they should go to this movie because everyone else
is going to this movie (and of course “everyone else” is thinking the same way).

One reason that this film is an Event is, obviously, effective promotion. Yet it would be difficult for the most
hard-boiled cynic to deny that a major factor is the intrinsic fascination of the subject. The original King Kong, made
in 1933, is more than just a popular monster movie; it is a part of what limited mythology we have
in America in the 20th century, appealing to that part of us which is totally irrational. This is a fact
that DeLaurentiis, scenarist Lorenzo Semple, Jr., and director John Guillerman would have been well advised to keep in mind: they
were dealing with something that is an unusually conspicuous part of the public domain. That they did so is sometimes,
but not always, evident.

In the pragmatic Seventies, the need to justify things has become pervasive. The idea of Kong, of course, no more
needs justification than movie-making itself. As a matter of fact, in the original story it was filmmakers who discovered Kong,
after consciously seeking him out. Their quest was a comment on the exciting, brash new art form itself, which fed
on the spectacular. In the new version, it is the aforementioned oil executive Wilson, played by Charles Grodin, who leads
the expedition, and the quest is for new oil supplies, not big apes. Also along as a stowaway is a
painfully idealistic paleontologist named Jack Prescott (Jeff Bridges). Things take on a welcome unrealistic air, though, when a raft comes
floating up to the ship containing Kong’s bride-to-be (Jessica Lange), sprawled unconscious in a wonderfully lascivious manner. Her name, naturally,
is Dwan; you couldn't expect Kong to be satisfied with a Sue or a Mary, or Jane. When she regains
consciousness later we see that her hair is perfectly set and her lipstick is intact. Furthermore, there is evidently a
full wardrobe of clothes on the ship that she can use as the days go by.

Yet, despite the presence of Dwan, Kong is doomed to become a creature with Redeeming Social Value. One reason is
the Grodin character, Wilson, who is little more than a buffoon. As a hindrance to, and eventually a quarry of
Wilson, Kong loses his aura of terror and instead becomes an oversized Smokey the Bear, standing for those sacred parts
of the environment we should leave untouched. This is accentuated by the scenes in New York when Kong becomes a
promotional gimmick for Petrox, and later, dies slowly on the top of the World Trade Tower in the classic fashion
of a martyr. Big oil companies of the world, watch closely, Semple and Guillerman seem to be saying, King Kong
is dying for your sins.

Semple’s script isn’t of much help either when it attempts to make a burlesque out of Kong. His jabs at
humor range from passable (Dwan telling Kong she’s afraid of heights), to insipid (Dwan calling Kong a “chauvinist pig”; Dwan
is totally unconvincing as a feminist), to decrepit (a frightened priest crossing himself as Kong stalks again).his eventual fate, and
once he is dispatched with, the film, unfortunately, loses much of its energy. One wishes Ford had ended with Liberty
Valance’s death: the first part of the film is vintage Ford (and, therefore, vintage Western); the second part, though shorter,
gets a bit tedious. Still, the film can be recommended as one of the three or four best Westerns by
the man who made them better than anyone else ever has.

All this aside, though, it must be admitted that there is magic in this film, splendid magic. The nocturnal ceremony
in which the captured Dwan is given to Kong as a bride is full of misty color, swirling movement, and
an inescapable, captivating energy; this despite Dwan’s sighing and swaying (the erotic nature of the scene is clear without it),
and the natives’ choreography which too closely resembles the Ike and Tina Turner Revue. Of an entirely different nature, but
mayhem in New York. Guillerman is an expert in such matters, as shown a couple of years back by his
supervision of the fire and brimstone of The Towering Inferno. In both of these segments in King Kong, Guillerman demonstrates
that sound, as well as sight, can be powerful in the cinema. We hear, rather than see, Kong’s initial appearance,
paradoxically through a shattering silence; Guillerman knows that a visual image, even in Panavision, is restricted to the space it
inhabits, while sound used effectively can envelop an entire theatre. But it is because the film at times is so
effective that one laments its faults. Ironically, two of the best statements on the film are contained in it. One
is the unveiling of Kong in New York by the Petrox Corporation. The presentation is, of course, supposed to be
seen as gaudy, commercial, and artificial—an overwrought re-enacting of the events on the island. To call it an exact parallel
to the film itself would be unfair, yet one sees the resemblance in the emphasis of glitter over substance, and
a lack of common sense. The other statement is made by Jack Prescott in reaction to Fred Wilson’s contention that
the islanders are glad to be losing Kong. He doubts it, saying that the natives are losing much of the
“terror” and “mystery” of their lives. It is a loss shared by us all.

Oppenheimer muses
By STEVE PEEPLES
Staff Writer

“I really decided to be a writer when I was about sixteen. At the time I thought nothing was more
inspiring. And y’know, when it works, sometimes I still think so.” So said Joel Oppenheimer, poet, columnist, teacher, and sporadic
sports writer. Oppenheimer visited the campus last week to read his poetry and talk on just about anything. A lifetime
resident of New York City, Oppenheimer commented on the occasional need for isolation by artists and people in general. “I
think that some writers, like Bly, maybe, formalize this isolation thing as an excuse not to deal with people. I
feel the need, just like anybody, to be to myself even when I’m not by myself.

“Y’know, you’ll want to go into a bar or somewhere, stay to yourself, and just listen to the crowd. Sometimes
I wish I had one of those buttons like y’see on an elevator that whenever I just wanted to sit
by myself and think, on comes the light and people will know that at the moment I don’t feel like
talking about the pennant race, or the news.

“But mostly I like being out around people. I don’t put a lot of emphasis on the isolation thing.”

Oppenheimer talked about first starting out as a poet. “Well, of course, to keep body and soul together you work
at something else. I worked as a printer for some time. You get by.” Now a regular columnist for the
Village Voice, he mentioned that most of the material for his columns and his poetry comes from “real life situations.
I saw something blowin’ down the street, and that suggested a poem. Of course my sons Nate and Lem have
probably generated as many columns as anyone or anything.”

In addition to his work with the Voice, Oppenheimer is a creative writing instructor at the University of New York.
He is currently in residence for the month of January at St. Andrews in Laurinburg. “I used to think I
couldn’t do without New York, but these days I’ve really enjoyed my times away. The kids and I have been
having a good time. Oh, I could gripe about the weather, maybe, but otherwise it’s been great.”

OPPENHEIMER visits campus again; bestows his wits upon
