On Tuesday, April 26, Philip Duncan interviewed College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. He answered factual questions concerning the college's
dealings with Dr. Ronald Linden, but deferred comment or questions concerning legal and opinion matters, preferring that the college’s legal
counsel reply to those matters. On Thursday, April 28, in a three-way telephone conversation between Duncan, Spencer, and college Counsel
Larry J. Dagenhart, the latter two answered all the reporter's questions. The following article was read to Spencer, and he
approved it as a correct account.

At the request of The Davidsonian, College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., and Larry J. Dagenhart, Counsel to the College
and a Davidson Trustee, explained in detail the College’s dealings with Dr. Ronald Linden.

“The political science department, Dean Johnston, and I interviewed Linden when he visited Davidson. Linden’s interview... When Spencer interviewed Linden,
“I gave him the section of the Trustee By-Laws dealing with appointments and tenure to read as a basis for
our discussion...we discussed the fact that he was Jewish. I discussed with him the nature of the college as a
community with a Christian commitment.

“First of all, I am directed to do that by the Trustees. And secondly, I felt he was certainly owed
a full discussion of that,” Spencer said. Spencer said that he and Linden did discuss Christian tenure in the interview.
According to Spencer, he and Linden did discuss Christian tenure in the interview. Spencer explained that Linden raised questions about
the policy and indicated no agreement with it. “But,” emphasized Spencer, “Linden did not express his objection to the policy
in the terms that he later used in his letter.

“After those interviews, the political science department recommended Linden for the job. We accepted that recommendation.”

Linden gives interview, details Davidson experience
Copyright Kevin C. Shelly 1977

On Tuesday, April 26, Kevin Shelly interviewed Dr. Ron Linden by phone in his Cranberry, New Jersey, home. This is
an exclusive interview; Linden gave permission to use this material in The Davidsonian and also said that he would not
be commenting further to any of the media until the American Association of University Professors complete their inquiry.

Kevin Shelly: Were you aware of Davidson’s Christian Tenure Policy when you came to Davidson for your interviews at the
school?

Dr. Ron Linden: “Ah, no. Before I came down I was not aware of it. At no time when I
was interviewing anyone in the department was I aware of it. Until I spoke with the President...the information about the
stipulations came to me from the President, not the members of the department.”

S: In what form was the information given to you?

L: “In the written statement of the college. My recollection is hazy, but typically what happens is before a person
comes down for an interview they send a person a package which includes a lot of information about the school,
including that statement. Now this was not done in my case...I don’t know why. When I got there it was
given to me...I arrived on an evening and the next day was spent in interviewing. I think the package was
given to me that first evening and someone said to me that I might want to take a look at
the By-Laws. I came upon the key chapter, I think it is paragraph 5...and then the President in his discussions
with me redoubled that by discussing my religion with me, and by giving me a copy of the By-Laws.”

S: What was your initial reaction when you came to that section in the By-Laws?

L: “I was first of all confused. I wondered whether this was just the kind of by-laws one sees often
written about a school, that a school often has, but which are relegated to its library. I didn’t know whether
they were presently operative or not. When I began to realize that they were operative, that was in my interview
with the President, my reaction was ‘I'm surprised’ —astonishment.”

S: Did you express that to Spencer at the time?

L: “No, I didn’t say much of anything.”

S: Why not?

L: “Before the interview I had read the By-Laws, but I wasn’t aware of what they meant.”

S: What form did your discussion with Spencer take in that initial interview?

L: “We talked about a lot of different things, things typ-”ically discussed in an interview... my educational background, what I
wanted to do at Davidson. Asking me what my nonprofessional interests were, and after we discussed fatherhood, my imminent fatherhood,
the President at some time asked me after that what my church background [see LINDEN, page 7].

Political science job in a letter dated February 9. He said, in part, “It is part of my responsibility to
point out to you in this letter the Statement of Purpose of the college.

By-Law copy
“A copy of this Statement together with a copy of the section of the Trustee By-Laws is enclosed herewith. As
you know, Davidson is a Presbyterian college founded by churchmen and continuing in its relationship with the church.

“Though it is non-sectarian in its practices it has a basic Christian commitment and orientation. I understand and respect the
fact that your orientation is different.

“However, you should accept the appointment offered to you in this letter only if you genuinely want to join such
a community and are, as the By-Laws state, prepared conscientiously to uphold and seek to increase the effectiveness of the
college as a church-related college.

“I owe it to you in all fairness to repeat the admonition that the Trustees’ conviction about the shared commitment
of the permanent tenured faculty is very strong:...”

Similar statement
According to Spencer, “I say a similar statement—obviously not the same, since I said ‘I understand and respect the fact
that your orientation is different’—in every letter of appointment, “And I send a copy of the By-Laws and the Statement
of Purpose with every letter of appointment.”

In a letter dated March 24, Linden stated that he accepted the appointment, but indicated his “strong opposition to such
policies (as Christian tenure) as morally repugnant, socially anachronistic, and scholastically unwise.” He continued, “...during my time at Davidson, I
will strongly support any movement to eliminate such laws and practices.”

Spencer consults
Upon receiving this letter, Spencer consulted legal counsel. “I myself didn’t interpret the letter as a negation of the contract,”
Spencer pointed out. “I asked the counsel if the letter was an acceptance of the terms of the contract.”

Dagenhart explained that the By-Laws impose a duty upon the President that he must be certain that all candidates for
appointment are aware that they must “uphold and seek to increase the effectiveness of the college as a church-related college.”

“There is not much of an alternative in the responsibility put upon the President by [see COLLEGE, page 3].

Task force defines plans for proposing tenure changes
By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The Student/Faculty Task Force Concerning Religious Requirements for Tenure met Wednesday night to review the case statement detailing the reasons
some students and faculty members consider the policy as objectionable because:

1. It confuses the issue of Christian commitment with [BEHIND PAGE 1]
2. It is unwise from an academic point of view.
3. It is objectionable on religious grounds.
4. It encourages a lack of integrity on the faculty.

The statement also contained a detailed explanation of each of these points. The committee plans to present the case statement
along with the petition currently being circulated by SGA Senate members to the Trustees. SGA President Thom Young will present
the statement to the college faculty next Tuesday.

The petition reads: “We request that the policy of Christian tenure be constructively evaluated and that the restrictive clauses be
eliminated with the aim of an equitable tenure policy.”

Earlier this week the committee met to plan their action concerning the issue and drew up the following schedule of
events:

Thursday, April 28, 9-11 pm in the Union Conference Room: Student letter writing to Trustees and alumni. The Senate will
provide paper, envelopes and stamps for $.10.

Monday, May 2, 7 pm in Love Auditorium: General student body meeting at which Professor of History W. Brown Patterson
will give a history of the Christian tenure issue, the case statement and the letter to the Trustees from members
of the Davidson Christian Fellowship (DCF) will be read.

Tuesday, May 3, 9 pm: Senate meeting at which the petitions will be collected.

Thursday, May 5, 4 pm, Chambers Gallery: Presentation of the case statement and petition at a Trustee forum.

9 pm: Reception for Trustees.
