‘The Davidsonian September 16, 1977

So much for innovative summers
By Wilson Davies

I’m a terrible conversationalist, or, more correctly, an unoriginal conversationalist, generally relying on the conventions of cocktail-party small talk to pull me through any and all social situations. I have a friend, though, who is completely original in all that he says and does, a veritable paragon of uniqueness, as it were. He has been known to have a seat inside a burning building rather than join the crowd of conformists rushing for the nearest exit; or, rather than answering the telephone with the common “Hello,” he comes on with something like “Greetings! Are the paths of your life free of the dung of distress?” in one of several obscure Central American languages that he has mastered.

Imagine my dismay, then, when he answered my stock first-week-of-September-back-to-school-glad-to-see-ya question of “What’d you do this summer?” with “Nothing.”

“What?”

“Nothing.”

“Whaddya mean ‘nothing?’ Of course you did something!”

“Nope. Nothing.”

“Oh, come on, now! Such a trite answer! Anyway, I know that you, the shah of singularity, the duke of different, had to have done something. Not just something, but something completely original, like repairing bagpipes or raising fruit bats for fun and profit. Come on, now, tell me about it.”

“That’s just it. Everybody’s doing something these days. I did Nothing.”

Twain remarks [Continued from page 5]

In fact, the Gilded Age took its name from the novel by Twain and Charles Dudley Warner, the slimy Senator Abner Dilworthy being based on Pomeroy himself. In January 1873, Twain wrote two letters to the New York Tribune accepting Hawaii as a state, both on grounds that annexation would damage Hawaii.

Mark Twain on Bicentennial Issues

On the budget: “Spending one’s capital is feeding a dog on its own tail” (Notebook, 1898).

On taxes: “What is the difference between a taxidermist and a tax collector? The taxidermist takes only your skin” (Notebook, 1898).

On Congress: “Reader, suppose you are an idiot. And suppose you are a member of Congress. But I repeat myself” (from a discussion of postal rates, 1882).

On American Character: “The American Characteristic is Uncourteousness. We are the Impolite Nation. In this detail we stand miles and miles above or beyond any other nation savage or civilized” (Notebook, 1897).

But there were lighter aspects too. No Bicentennial traffic jam, for instance, will ever match the comic misadventures of April 19, 1875. Clemens and his friend William Dean Howells were to attend ceremonies in honor of the battle of Lexington and Concord at which time Daniel Chester French was to unveil his famous “Minute Man” statue. Emerson was a featured speaker; Lowell was to read a poem; Grant and an army of luminaries were to appear. Instead of taking the special train from Boston, however, Clemens and Howells hiked through the crisp, damp morning to North Cambridge. But North Cambridge was, in a word, pandemonium: every carriage, railroad car, and cart was jammed. With the day turning colder and the streets muddier, Twain made one vain commuter’s chase for an empty buggy and got the leavings of the wheels and horse for his trouble. The disgusted pair slogged home, lied to Elinor Howells that they had left the ceremonies after growing bored, and took some pleasure in finding out the next day what had happened at the festivities: nearly everyone was late; the speakers’ platform collapsed twice; wind rendered the fried chicken cold and gritty; all of this coming shortly before the dining tent caved in. Years later in a comment seemingly unrelated to the episode Clemens did manage to say that such a patriot “often gags in private over his dose; but he takes it, and keeps it on his stomach the best he can. Blessed are the meek.”

Part two of this series will appear next week in The Davidsonian.

On the Edge

“Huh?”

“Read the statistics. Backpacking equipment sales are up 300 percent in eight years. Hang gliders are now hanging in every garage. More people are surfing, skin diving, skiing than ever before. You've got to stand in line to climb a major Himalayan peak anymore.”

“Yeah, but those things are just pastimes for the young and fit...”

“Well, hear me out. More people are growing vegetable gardens than ever before. More people are raising horses, building their own homes, moving to farms. There are more travelers, airplane owners, boaters, hunters, fishermen.”

“Those things aren’t out of the ordinary at all, though.”

“All right, then, listen: I applied for a job plucking hummingbirds—I was fifteenth in line. I tried to get work training grasshoppers to eat crabgrass—my application got lost in the heap. I took shotsat jobs rebuilding antique crowbars, carving keyrings from Hank Aaron’s baseball bats, weaving neckties from old dental floss, shoeing llamas—the same results in all of them: ‘We’re sorry, but the number of applicants far exceeds positions available...’ and so on. In short, everybody’s doing something new and different. I just couldn’t be so incredibly unoriginal, so I did nothing. Absolutely nothing.’

‘But you must have done something? I mean at least some little thing?’

‘Well, I did eat, sleep, breathe, and...the other thing. But I accepted those long ago as things I was just going to have to live with and conform to. Otherwise, I did nada, rien, zilch, zero. I didn’t go anywhere, didn’t see anyone...’

‘And how do you feel now?’

‘Great! It sometimes takes sacrifice to be a step ahead of everyone else but, boy, is it worth it. Nothing like that feeling of supreme uniqueness to get a man going in the morning—or not going, in my case.’

‘Hmm. Well, what are you doing now—in school, I mean?’

‘Well, no one has been studying much this week, so I’ve been digging away in the library. But as soon as attendance at E.H. Little peaks, I’ll start sleeping all day and sailing at night—if the rain keeps up.’

‘I see. Well, I’ll see ya later.’

‘Okay,’ he said, adding, ‘May happiness and prosperity follow you like blowflies’ in Urdu.

Hardy travelers find life
By KEVIN SHELLY

Ralphy and me came on back to school early, hopin’ to settle in early, be comfortable; and loaf, but it just wasn’t workin’. Kept gettin’ invited to dinners and parties and such and we were both ’bout outta excuses as the Sunday Service invites began rollin’ in. Felt ’bout the way ol’ Huck did at the end of his book, surrounded by all them well-meanin’ sorts who was makin’ life miserable.

‘Time to pack it,’ said Ralphy, as we ducked into the ’Guine so we wouldn’t hafta make up some other excuse to the helpful Presbyterian headin’ toward us. We rolled out that afternoon, after Charly gassed us up and made some good undemanding talk. Charly understands people, not like them profs and Presby’s. Guess people always safer when they’re sellin’ somethin’ than when they’re doing you a favor, or savin’ your immortal soul.

Contrary to Horace, we shot out to the east, where we knew we had friends who'd be happy to let us be. Mebbe Horace’s advice about the West was good stuff for up there in New York somewheres, but isn’t much of nothin’ in either direction. So we were toolin’ along, listenin’ to Loretta, and jus’ happy as hell to be movin’ along. Not one damn serious thought in our heads nowhere and nobody tryin’ ta be nice to us anywhere.

I swear we were tryin’ not to think, but it got us anyway; kinda slipped up on us when we weren’t ready for it. Weak and defenseless. Wouldn’t’a happened if there’d been a good ol’ Interstate built for us runnin’ straight from Davidson to Hatteras; but the boys up in D.C. were takin’ it easy this week, so we just hadda make our own way out there, followin’ some of the smaller roads that D.C. hadn’t got hold of yet.

Anyway, round ’bout Nadkin it happened. Simultaneously we had the exact same original thought. It was kinda frightenin’, like winnin’ some discussion in Humes and decidin’ later that you really were right. It was that awesome.

You see, out there toward the east, there’re more pigs and pines than people, but every now ’n then there’d be some excuse for a city, complete with a stop light or two, sprawled out along the road. What we didn’t notice right off, probably ’cause we weren’t sure if we should attack it inductively or deductively, was that at the center of every one of these one-horse bergs was a Hardees. Yes, sir, what caused these damn speed traps to exist was the Hardees. Me’n Ralphy looked at each other and knew it. We didn’t even need Pascal to whip us into line. Hardees is the mother of civilization. Just look at Cornelius. Boy, we’d pulled one on ol’ Max Weber. Course he was just a poor ol’ logical German prof type, which we gotta admit is a helluva handicap, but you’d think he woulda noticed those orange signs at the heart of those Alpine bergs.

Me’n Ralphy are whippin’ our conclusion together now in time to get ’em published in some big-time academic journal this fall. But what worries us most is how’re we gonna duck all these incoming convention invites? They’re more persistent than the Presbyterians any day.