January 14, 1977

the davidsonian

SCS in Saturday’s meet.

WILDCAT SWIMMER dives to victory against

(Irv Wilson)

Swimmers swap victories in meet

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

As one Davidson swimmer put it, “There was no way we could beat Furman, and no way we could lose to South Carolina State,” and that’s exactly what happened as Davidson’s swim team traveled to Greenville last Saturday for a double duel meet. Davidson split, losing to Furman 62-41 and defeating South Carolina State 75-37.

“Our times really weren’t that good at all,” said Coach Pat Miller, “but we were working long yardage all week, and didn’t cut down at all before the meet.”

The outstanding performance of the meet was by Jonathan Washburn, who smashed Davidson's 200-yard backstroke record with a time of 2:07.9, breaking his own record of 2:11.7.

“We are really working hard,” said Coach Miller. “Our times will start to fall. Some of our swimmers who were sick are well now.”

Coach Miller looks optimistically at future meets. “We’ve got some big meets coming up—Madison this weekend, William and Mary next week—and it'll take a super effort. We give up 16 points each meet due to no entry in the diving. That could make the difference. We just don’t have the facilities.”

The Wildcat swim team currently stands 3-1 with the split last weekend. The next meets are this weekend, Madison Friday and Augusta Saturday.

Wildcattes split games

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s basketball team got off to a good start following Christmas break by defeating Augusta College 54-50. The Wildcats had fulfilled their promise of having a 2-2 record before Christmas, so the record increased to 3-2, with the Augusta game.

At the half Davidson was winning, 34-28, and hitting 48.5 percent of their field goals. Augusta, on the other hand, was only hitting 32.3 percent. However, during the second half Davidson’s shooting percentage hit an all-time low of 20 percent, which accounts for the close final score.

The Wildcats played a very good defensive game, with Cindy Morrison pulling down 21 of the 59 rebounds accountable to Davidson. Sarah Womack was top scorer with 18 points, and also pulled down 13 rebounds.

Cindy Morrison came out of the game with 16 points, and Beth Tanner with 13.

The second game following Christmas break was a frustrating loss to Mars Hill, 80-67. Although Davidson dominated the rebounding score, the Wildcats’ shots were continually rejected by the basket, only hitting an average of 28 percent.

Cindy Morrison and Sarah Womack dominated with eleven rebounds apiece. Beth Tanner, Sarah Womack, and Cindy Morrison were tied for top scorer with sixteen points apiece.

Although three names have generally dominated this report, honorable mention should be given to the other supporting members: Bonnie Caulkins, Ann Clark, Donna Ferren, Ann Lowder, Nancy Matheny, Nora McNeill, Kat Morton, Babs Patton, Becca Stimson, and Beth Thacker.

CINDY MORRISON’S shot is to no avail as Wildcattes go down to defeat against Mars Hill.

(Irv Wilson)

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary