the davidsonian January 14, 1977

Wigginton philosophizes
By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

When Eliot Wigginton, editor of the nationally best-selling Foxfire books, came on campus last Monday, he brought with him five knife-toting, pool-hustling, backwoods teenagers from Rabun County, Georgia. Introducing high school students to college life is part of what the Foxfire program is all about—education. Not old-fashioned “listen to it, memorize it, spit it back on tests” garden variety education, but experiential education.

As each student gave a short talk at the Union programs on Foxfire, phrases such as “not that I reckon of” and “there’s really not no use for it ‘cept to fiddle with” flowed so fast and steady that the audience might have thought they were at a Salt Lake City production of Tom Sawyer. But judging by the favorable reactions of their audience, their down-to-earth comments revealed a greater feeling for the Appalachian culture than a strictly grammatical form could have conveyed.

The Foxfire empire has grown like weeds since the first issue of the student-compiled mountain culture magazine came out eleven years ago. The first Foxfire book, which contained articles on how to make moonshine and log cabins, has sold nearly two million copies, the second over a million, and the third just under a million. Foxfire IV is due to be out on the counters this summer and Foxfire V is already being prepared.

Even though many areas of mountain life have already been written about, Wig, as the students call him, does not yet see any limitation in future subjects for articles. “We’re getting new ideas all the time,” he said. With over $500,000 a year in royalties, Foxfire has purchased a 110-acre plot of land in Rabun County on which 25 endangered log buildings have been moved. The group now owns and operates its own printing shop, television studio, and recording studio. This spring, they plan to open up their own furniture company.

When Wig talks about the educational gold mine these facilities provide his high school students, it is with the conviction that students can successfully operate the equipment and learn a great deal about the real world in doing so. “The kids are going into the world believing that if they provide a quality product they'll do all right.”

Review
Walsh rocks Eagles; Harris sails
By DAVE SCHMIDT
Staff Writer

The Eagles
Hotel California
Asylum

You can tell you’re in store for a different album from the Eagles just by looking at the cover art. Instead of the usual Western motif on their previous albums, the cover art on this album is almost surreal. And the first time you play the album you'll be in for a surprise. If you feared that the addition of Joe Walsh would transform the band into Joe Walsh and the Eagles, your fears are unfounded. Walsh's influence is very noticeable, and a welcome addition.

Side One opens with “Hotel California,” the title cut. The vocals are not done by Walsh, but by drummer Don Henley. While Henley has sung on previous albums, he has never sung in this style which has been influenced by Walsh in a positive way. The guitar work of Walsh and Don Felder is excellent. “New Kid In Town” is the second cut, and written by John David Souther, whose influence is definitely in evidence in the familiar Eagles style. “Life in the Fast Lane” is all Joe Walsh, and his style is identifiable from the first measure which makes this the best. This song is the closest the Eagles have ever come to playing rock. As a friend said the first time he heard this cut, “With Walsh the Eagles aren't afraid to rock and roll anymore.” “Wasted Time,” a nice mellow song, concludes Side One. Glenn Frey displays excellent piano work.

Side Two opens with “Wasted Time (Reprise),” a nice string arrangement leading into “Victim of Love.” On this cut Walsh pulls out his slide guitar. While never soloing, his work holds the song together. The last three cuts, “Pretty Maids All in a Row,” “Try and Love Again,” and “The Last Resort” are in the style of the old Eagles, and all are excellent. Listen especially for Frey's guitar on “Try and Love Again.”

With the addition of Walsh, the Eagles will never be the same. Old Eagles fans may have trouble accepting this new album.

Emmy Lou Harris
Luxury Liner
Warner Brothers

Emmy Lou Harris is one of those cult artists whose fans adore them, and the majority of the people have never heard of. While her solo work has not received much attention, she has backed up some excellent people, including Gram Parsons and Linda Ronstadt. Though Linda Ronstadt isa personal favorite, my note would have to be: “That’s important,” said Wigginton as he flicked his cigarette ashes into a styrofoam cup. He spoke of Foxfire as a “positive experience” which will tend to offset “the negative experiences of the traditional classroom.” And he is not alone in his thinking. Hundreds of similar projects have sprung up all over the nation. One of the Charlotte high schools now publishes such a magazine entitled A Cotton Seed Anthology. In standardized tests which have been administered in the public schools, students who have learned grammar and writing in experiential projects such as Foxfire often score years ahead of similar students in traditional classrooms, and seldom more poorly. Wigginton maintained that it is just as important to “integrate experiential components into every class in college as in high school.” He stressed that these programs don’t have to be confined to what he called “cultural journalism,” where people are interviewed about their lives. Wigginton attacked the belief that college students are eager and motivated to learn in a classroom situation, calling it a “bunch of bullshit.” He said that most people are in college because they feel it is expected of them.

Side One opens with “Luxury Liner,” which I played four times before I went on to the rest of the album. The cut can’t really be described, but the closest description would be up-tempo country/rock. The guitar work of Albert Lee and Brian Ahern is excellent. The remainder of the side is composed of traditional ballads. All of the lyrics are excellent, and the pedal steel of Hank DeVito holds the side together. Good pedal steel work can’t be beat, and DeVito’s is excellent. Side Two is a little more diverse in the style of music presented. The first cut is “(You Never Can Tell) C’est La Vie,” which was originally done by Chuck Berry. This version has a country sound, yet retains the flavor of Berry’s style. “When I Stop Dreaming” is the nicest cut on the album. It features excellent supporting vocals by Dolly Parton and a harmonica solo by Mickey Raphael. The next two cuts, “Hello Stranger,” and “She,” are done in the traditional country ballad style, yet each has characteristics that make them stand out from all the other songs of this type. “She” is an especially nice, mellow cut. The final cut is the only one written by Emmy Lou, “Tulsa Queen.” Once again the harmonica of Mickey Raphael is featured. The supporting vocals of Fayssoux Starling and Herb Pedersen are also excellent.

Pop Film Preview: Duke rides a mountain toy. By PATRICK COVINGTON Staff Writer

For all those “they-don’t-make-‘em-like-they-used-to” movie fans on campus, D.C. Pop Films offers an opportunity this weekend to see The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance, a 1962 Western directed by John Ford. This film, along with Young Mr. Lincoln (1939), was shown on campus a couple of years ago in preparation for a campus visit by Village Voice film critic Andrew Sarris; presumably they were considered representative of Ford’s work in general. His career as a filmmaker lasted more than fifty years, beginning with silent films in 1917, during which time he won six Oscars for direction. He worked with many different subjects, yet he is mainly known for his adaptations of American history and literature, and for his Westerns. The most prominent of the former group is his 1940 film of Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath. Some viewers may consider Ford’s “sociological” films, such as The Grapes of Wrath, superior to his Westerns simply because of the limitations they see in the Western genre. Yet many critics maintain that Ford the artist was at his best when making Westerns. Ford’s most successful “Western period” began in 1939 with Stagecoach, perhaps his most famous film. It was a landmark not only in Ford’s career but in that of John Wayne; his performance as the “Ringo Kid” contributed greatly to his fame. Ford spent the first half of the Forties helping America win the war (he worked for the navy), but during the last half of the decade returned to Westerns with My Darling Clementine, Fort Apache, and She Wore a Yellow Ribbon, all considered well-above-average works. Liberty Valance represents a later venture by Ford into Westerns after a number of war films, and it shows that he hadn’t lost his touch. Like other outstanding Westerns, such as George Stevens’ Shane, it is elemental, almost mythological.