April 1, 1977 The Davidsonian | 5

A DAVIDSON MAN NEEDS NO INTRODUCTION

Opinion

Bring back Intermezzo!
By JACK GOLDEN
Guest Columnist

It is over a year since I first informed readers of the Davidsonian about the plot of the various college administrators to eradicate one of this college’s greatest links with the past—a literary society. It is time for the students of this institution of higher learning to rise up and bring an end to the suppression of the history of the Intermezzo Society.

When I first found the document referring to this third society, I thought it to be no more than an elaborate practical joke—a conclusion which was supported by talks with several knowledgeable people on the Davidsonian. When all such material was locked away in the vault of the archives and a prohibition placed on their examination, I began to wonder. I was able to obtain several of the actual documents and copies of a number of others. These were forwarded to Dr. Edward C. Atkinson of the N.C. State Historical Preservation Society. They were also examined by Dr. Michael Fowler, a noted expert on North Carolina memorabilia and archivist at the Z. Smith Reynolds Library of Wake Forest University. Both men agree that the original documents given to them are very likely authentic, being executed at the dates shown in the diaries and book of minutes.

The history of the Intermezzo Society and why its legacy has been suppressed still remains a mystery. All we know is the society was founded on November 18, 1836. The members were dedicated to “lifting from all our brothers the yoke of ignorance” by the dissemination of scholastics and the arts to all men, including “our brothers in chains.” There is some evidence that the group championed the abolitionist cause in the 1840s and ’50s. I have not been able to locate any documents referring to the society or its members from 1858 until the destruction of their hall by fire on February 26, 1893. (To this day in warm weather you can see the outline of the foundation of the hall—it being of roughly the same size as the other structures and located between them, facing towards Cunningham Fine Arts Center.)

I have done all I can do by myself on this matter. It is time for the students of Davidson to show that they will not allow the suppression of an integral part of this school’s history any longer. We can and we must demand that the administration make public all documents regarding the Intermezzo Society. Next week the society will reorganize and hold its first meeting since it was banished from the campus in 1908. Once again the society’s members will strive for truth, beginning with the search for its legacy. If you do not care to join the society, at least aid us in our cause. The truth cannot remain hidden any longer.

Protect drinking rights

All right, Davidson, we're about to get ourselves in trouble. We're about to lose the 900 Room beer, perhaps even all our beer-drinking privileges. The Union personnel and Grover Meetze are tired of the vandalism that has accompanied the rising public drunkenness. They are mad and ready to take dramatic action to prove their point. Probably most students are not aware a problem exists. Except for the bathrooms in the Union, most incidences are kept secret. And most students, therefore, are unaware the Union has been talking about ways to stop the abuses of the drinking.Rules for over a month. They have. Now it’s time for that majority to take matters into their own hands. Become aware of the Union’s rules. Cooperate with them. And apply peer pressure to friends who abuse those rules. Also, keep an open mind about the possibility of a building supervisor. Ideally, the Union is talking about a graduating senior. All they need is someone with eyes and legs; they do not need a big, burly animal. The attitude in the Union is such that if you are drunk you are liable for prosecution under the Code of Responsibility and will be charged, sent to the Dean of Students’ Office, and prosecuted. And if enough abuse continues, the Union is not past closing down completely.

What concerns us as much as the abuses is the attitude toward correcting those abuses. We are college students, all of us are over 18. If we want to get drunk and pass out, that is our business. If we want to come into the 900 Room nude, that is our business also. The moralistic tone sounds more like high school disciplinary procedure. If the students are treated like children, they will act as such. Closing the Union only insults our intelligence. The 900 Room is a haven for too many of us. Its removal would change the atmosphere of the college from one of relaxed maturity to a police state. And it would put too many drunk drivers on the roads. Students, this is your Union. Now that you’ve been warned of the sentiment, take responsibility. We do not want a few to take away the privileges of everyone.

Board lacks objectivity

The Media Board is poisoned with hypocrisy. Initially, the board was to set the standards for all Davidson media. But the presence of Bert Downs, Will Terry, and Buck Lawrimore defeats that purpose. All are involved on the WDAV Board. If a decision about some action taken by WDAV must be made, surely there will be a conflict of interest, surely the decision will be biased. Downs is a WDAV staff member. What if he were to be brought before the board? The editors and station managers are not allowed on the board, but what about staff members? We suggest the board re-examine itself and draw up its by-laws so the future board will be a more objective judge.

The Davidsonian

Editor
Executive Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ............... News Editors
Features Editor
Bill Barnett & Jim Entwistle ........... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell ....... Sports Editors
Susan Colan ..... Production Manager
Managing Editor
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson........... Photography Editors
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ............... Advertising Editors
Circulation Manager
Business Manager
Cartoonist
Asst. Projects Editor
Asst. Features Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.