April 29, 1977

The Davidsonian

Lloyd accepts blame for Bowl loss

By CHARLES E. LLOYD
Faculty Guest Columnist

We have it on the best authority that honest confession is good for the soul. That may be true, says
the cynic, but it plays hob with the reputation. I must, alas, agree; but, since souls are more precious than
reputations, I’d better get on with my confessing.

By the time this appears, the stations in the UNC-TV network will have broadcast the First Annual North Carolina English
College Bowl Tournament, won by North Carolina State over Davidson.

PCC sponsors open dance

To the Editor:

The eating houses and fraternities of Davidson College are sponsoring a campus-wide dance this Saturday from 9:00 to 12:00 in
Belk Quad. The Brice Street Band, which played in the gym for Spring Frolics last year, will provide the music;
beer and coke will be available for refreshment.

While it would seem that a college social calendar would be sprinkled with outside dances, concerts and the like, the
frequency of such events at Davidson has been very small. The possibility of future functions depends on the success of
this one. Therefore, certain preparations and precautions must be taken.

Student volunteers wearing red armbands will be present to assist where needed. The beer and coke will be centrally located
in an easily accessible position off the quad with students available to dispense the beverages. Cooperation is required in preventing
damage to Belk, Watts, Cannon, and the surrounding areas. Students attending the dance should lock their doors in an effort
to prevent theft. Those who intend to study Saturday evening will find the DCPC classrooms open.

This dance, which is part of the Spring Activities Day, will be moved to the 900 Room in the event
of rain. The band is excellent, the beer will be cold, and a party in Belk Quad should be an
excellent way to end a pleasant day.

Social Chairman’s Committee

U. of Ohio tennis coach commends Davidson team

To the Editor:

This is an open letter to the entire Davidson College community.

I serve as men’s varsity tennis coach at Ohio University, Athens, Ohio. Each year I bring my team on a
tour of the Atlantic coastal states during the latter part of March. The past two years we have engaged the
fine Davidson team, capably coached by Jeff Frank, in competition.

My players and I have been very impressed with both the sportsmanship of the players, and the friendly attitude and
hospitality of the Davidson students and staff.

Our collective “hats off” to you all!

D.J. Stephenson
Tennis Coach
Ohio University

State had defeated the University of North Carolina in the first round, and East Carolina had beaten Davidson. That loss
was my fault. I had picked the team and trained them, and they did what I told them. It curdles
my Vichyssoise to think of the hard work of Bill Barnes, Aida Doss, Howard Payne, Steve Smith, and Tom Ruby,
and the loss they took. I apologize to these gallant Davidsonians, and promise to dedicate the next bull I kill
to them.

I could say I went into our four-corners offense too early, or that my eldest son used up the family’s
weekly allotment of good luck (he won two lawsuits), or that I picked the wrong Major. But I won’t cozen
my readers with laughing lies.

Actually, I picked them as the class of 1969 in 1977. I had begun to believe my clippings. I forgot
that we won in 1969 by running scared; this time I was armored in SECURITY. If you ever feel invincible,
dear brothers and sisters, look out! (Don’t take my word for it; ask Macbeth. The meanest trick the Weird Sisters
played on him was to convince him he was unstoppable.)

The College Bowl (not just English) is being revived; there is already a Southeastern Conference, in which all the teams
listed above have been participating for over a year. I’m sure it will be on national television soon. I hope
again with a generous sponsor and lovely trips to the Big Wicked City for the teams chosen. I'd love to
assist anybody who wants to participate; if I’m not wanted as coach, I’ll keep score and write questions.

And we’ve got to wipe out Lloyd’s loss next year at Raleigh.

What say the students, upon whom in this, as in all other vital Davidson matters, all depends?

Whatever you say, I want to thank all the Davidson students: the girls for being so pretty and the youths
for being so fine; and to both for putting up with me. You are wonderful people.

LETTERS

The Davidsonian solicits letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be typed and signed. We
reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words in length.
