February 11, 1977

The Davidsonian

Wildcats

by CHARLES ERWIN
Assistant Features Editor

Davidson College has taken more liberties with the form and figure of the southern wildcat than modern art has taken with the human body. There are red wildcats, yellow wildcats, wildcats wearing sweaters, and even some wildcats with green, gray, and cream spots. The leaning red wildcat, which is found on student store bags and several decals, is perpetually introducing itself by extending its black tophat. Despite this, it often appears with the caption “A Davidson Man needs no introduction.”

As student store manager Peter Nicholls explained, however, most of the wildcats which appear on commercial items such as decals, t-shirts, and patches are not designed by the college at all.

The baseball-capped wildcat found on the laundry’s paper coat covers looks remarkably as if it had been washed by the laundry itself. It is wrinkled, burned, and blurred. A few of these quasi-felines, like the tigers on the laundry bags and the screaming panther in the gym, no longer pretend to bear any relation to their forest-roaming counterpart.

Some of the cats are ironically symbolic of the situations in which they are found. The ARA snack bar wildcat has cheeks which are puffed out like a chipmunk’s mouth when carrying a load of nuts. If you can’t eat the food, you've got to find something to do with it.

Of all these dozen wildcat figures, only two on the whole campus bear any resemblance to the real animal. The first is the stuffed wildcat in the lobby of the gym. Despite missing ear tufts, worn teeth, and a bedraggled hide, this cat does bear some resemblance to what it looked like pre-bullet. The best representation is the Ralph McDonald painting which is presently being pawned off on the alumni at $37 a print. In spite of the stiff look (it looks more like a stuffed animal than the stuffed cat), it is accurate, according to photographs of the real beast.

The paper mache wildcat head used by the cheerleaders has sharply crossed eyes. No wonder the basketball team has trouble seeing just where to throw the ball.

The wildcat has only served as Davidson’s mascot for the last 60 years. Up until then, the athletic teams were known as the “Presbyterians” or the “Red and Blacks.” But when in November 1917, the Atlanta Constitution ran a banner headline on the top of page 1, which read “Davidson Wildcats Upset the Dope by outplaying and

The Student Rip-off

By BETH BAIRD

It’s early morning, you have just finished that 12-page paper due tomorrow at 8 am, and you’re starving. You grab your roommate’s car keys, get some money, and then hop over to 7-11 for a little snack that ends up costing you more than a meal at Slug’s Tower. Does this sound familiar? Well, if this has ever happened to you, here are some facts that you might be interested in.

First of all, say you want a frozen item. At Cashions, it would cost $3.04; at Harris Teeter it would be $3.10; and at 7-11 you would spend about a dollar more, a big $4.04. This survey, taken on January 31, showed that on average, the prices at Cashions and Harris Teeter were comparable. However, the prices at 7-11 showed a substantial markup, which can only be compensated by their being open 24 hours. A comparison of items priced is also listed, so next time you think about that late food run, you might think

THE DAVIDSON WILDCAT shows its face in a variety of different ways. (Hunter Jennings)beating Auburn.” The association has stuck ever since. Indeed, the choice of the wildcat has turned out to be entirely appropriate, in scholarly as well as in athletic pursuits. Just as Davidson students are loath to participate in classroom discussions unless they fear their grades might suffer, “wildcats are at all times shy and exceedingly cautious about showing themselves,” as stated in Stone and Cram’s 1902 edition of American Animals. There is also a marked similarity in this animal’s hunting habits and students’ methods of researching term papers. “Lacking skill at following a trail, and the speed and tireless perseverance which makes foxes and weasels such successful hunters, they catch most of their game by lying hidden in ambush and springing out suddenly on whatever small game comes within reach.”

Clarinet & Piano Recital
Barbara and Allen Ware

Cheese pizza and a 6-pack of Mich-

twice...

Big M
Staris: Tecter Cashions

Campbell Soups:
Tomato .16 .16 .39
Veg. Beef .26
Chicken with Rice .24 .24

Dannon Yogurt:
Plain .38 .35
Varieties .41 .39 .39

Oranges (12) .89 .69
Apples 3 lbs. .99 .99
Apples 1 lb. .49 .39

M&M
Peanut Candy .19

Peanut Butter:
12 oz. Crunchy Peter Pan .69 .70
12 oz. Crunchy Jif .69 .69

Bread:
Merita (24 oz.) .55
Roman Meal (16 oz.)

Lipton Ice Tea, 4 oz. 1.29 1.21
(1 oz.) Twin Pak Potato Chips .79 .79 .89
Popcorn, 2 lbs. .59 .64

Beer, 6-pack:
Michelob 2.01 2.05 2.59
Schlitz 1.69 1.69 2.39
Budweiser 1.67 1.67 2.19

Coke, 28 oz. .49 .49 .59
Frozen Cheese Pizza .99 1.09 1.45

Vernedale
Biltmore
Sealtest

Cigarettes, carton 3.17 3.15

Sunday 4pm Hodson Hall

On a cold day--- warm up!

“Complete the Valentine Poem Contest.” Just complete the last line of our poem, and you could win an expense-paid trip for four this summer to fabulous Walt Disney World, sponsored by Hallmark Cards. First prize winner in our store contest receives a $25 Gift Certificate—and qualifies for the Hallmark Walt Disney World trip national contest!

Just write the last line of this Valentine poem:
Valentine, please let me prove
You're all that I desire.
Say you’ll give me all your love,

Complete the last line to rhyme with “desire.” Write a funny ending, or a serious one. It’s easy! Pick up official entry at our store. Hurry! Deadline for entries is Thursday, Feb. 10. Get a free “love” pin with each entry!

THE VILLAGE STORE Brings You a World of Gifts

Complete summer studies program in France with sessions in Paris, Nice, and Strasbourg. Up to 16 hours credit in French and/or European history. Co-sponsored by Wheaton College and Taylor University. 3 week, 7 week, 10 week sessions from $1350 including airfare. Some financial aid available. For details, contact: ESPRIT, Box 636, Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois 60187.