Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

By MERIDETH DURDEN Staff Writer

Ten days before classes began, Patsy was approached by Edmunds on the tennis courts at Montreat, N.C. White, Director of
Admissions, had heard Patsy, then a rising junior at Kings College, discussing how she would like to transfer out of
the Tennessee college.

"White asked me if I’d thought about transferring to Davidson," Patsy said. Then she explained what she felt like replying.
"Sure, and I’ve also thought about buying a Rolls Royce."

Patsy was admitted, granted financial aid, and placed into a work-study position before she ever set foot on the campus.
Everything was done by mail with the help of Mr. White.

"But I had built it up in my mind to be a very tough school, so I never applied. But
when I was given the chance to come, I took it," Patsy said.

Patsy knew it was going to be tough, as after she was accepted she got a letter comparing Davidson and
its workload with other colleges. "I don’t know exactly who sent it, but it rated Davidson over colleges like Vassar
and Dartmouth when it came to workload. It told about the all-night study room. Then it asked if I was
sure I wanted to come."

Was she swallowed up by the academics? Patsy answers, "I've learned what it's like to work hard here. It was
a big adjustment at first. Sometimes I thought I was going to pack up and leave. I was used to
cutting corners at school, and you just can’t do it here. For example, I took some 21 courses, as I
had heard that they were the easy ones. But I really had to work. The crib courses at Davidson may
be crib for somebody like Einstein, but they weren’t crib for me."

Patsy finds the academic rigor motivating. "I had no idea I could do some of the things I’m doing. I’m
used to sort of resting on my laurels. That was the situation at King—a big fish in a little sea."
King College has about 300 students and several one-man departments. Patsy knew she could get a wider variety of courses
here.

When pressed about why she went to King originally, Patsy cites "political reasons." "But I honestly feel like after you’ve
gone here, you can go anywhere," Patsy said. "These are the years when you find out you have to work."

Nancy Northcott, a transfer student from the University of Richmond, also considers the social system at Davidson better than the
one she came from. She describes Richmond as a "suitcase college, and very fraternity oriented. If you aren’t in a
fraternity, you’re in the pits." She enjoys the casualness of the Davidson frat system, the open parties, and the frequent
campus movies.

Nancy talked about an initial adjustment problem that most all transfers to Davidson mentioned. "This is a clique-oriented place. We
transfers aren't intentionally ignored; it’s just that people see us for the first time and assume we're someone who had
bad luck and they just never met. They assume we have our own clique."

Nancy is a pre-law student who cites Davidson’s reputation as an attraction to transfer. But an important factor in her
transferring was the disagreeable social situation at her first college.

Bob Sherbecoe has been working hard for three years, but he will work another two before he graduates from college.
Bob transferred to Davidson this year.year after three years at the University of Southern California. Davidson stipulates that a graduate
must attend for at least two years. “College should be more than just a place where you go to classes,”
said Bob. As a pre-med student at USC, he was disheartened by biology class with 800 students. “You had to
make an appointment to see a teacher and the appointments only lasted ten minutes.” Bob was “not encouraged” by the
pre-med committee at USC. “Their purpose was to weed people out,” he said. So he talked to a school counselor,
who suggested a similar school and mentioned Davidson. Bob came as a pre-med student; now he is certain that he
wants a health-related career, but not necessarily the life of a doctor. Bob responds to the small size of Davidson
as “it allows for more interaction on all sides.”

Perry Bartelt is a pre-med transfer who did not come to Davidson because of its small size. “I’d like to
see this place get bigger,” said Perry. Perry, now a hall counselor on third Richardson, attended Franklin-Marshall in Pennsylvania for
a year. “There were constant feelings of mistrust among the students,” Perry explained. “I complained to my father; so when
we moved to Charlotte, he turned me to this place and I applied.” Perry was attracted by Davidson’s good reputation.
Franklin and Marshall also has an excellent reputation, but Perry objected to the atmosphere there. “If I had a question,
I’d have to ask about five people before I’d get the right answer,” Perry said. “But I never really thought
about transferring until I heard about Davidson,” Perry said. “It was more a move to Davidson than away from Franklin
and Marshall.”

Holly Gnagey transferred from Goucher College, where she says three things were stressed: academics, physical appearance, and people. “It was
the people at Goucher that killed it for me. The girls had intelligence and status, but they could easily get
an education and not be bothered with anything else. Everything was put at your feet and I couldn’t stand it.
It was all so cushy and assured. It just wasn’t for me.” Holly went home for Christmas break from Goucher,
and never went back. She worked as a cook in a vegetarian restaurant for the rest of the academic year
and then attended Appalachian State Summer School. She decided on Davidson because of its relatively small size and good academic
reputation. Once at Davidson, Holly found the academics as tough as she had expected. At Davidson, she said, “I think
I’ve had the hardest courses I’ve ever had.” She found the social situation to her liking. “At Goucher, you were
dependent on John Hopkins for a social life. Once in a while they’d cart you off to Princeton, but still,
it was a bad situation.”
