September 10, 1977

The Davidsonian

Think Freshmen stand out now?

By WARREN SOULE

© [This is the first in a series of articles about Davidson history, traditions, and trivia which will appear in this issue and in coming weeks.]

A Davidson tradition came to an end when the Class of 1972 graduated. Yes, coeducation was but months away, but it marked the end of a different story: this was the last class which passed their first year at Davidson under the old and venerable Freshman regulations. The most noticeable manifestation of these Regulations was the beanie, or “Fresh cap.” Freshmen had to wear (originally at all times, but later only when on campus) the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control. An unmistakable sign of being a Freshman, the beanies were red (inscribed with the class number in black) with a black visor (an example is on display from the Class of 1960 in the Library foyer). Although a sign of class rank and a notice of that low station of life...

Let’s move to semesters

It's the third day of classes, and the pressure is on. Most students work better when challenged. But the pressure at Davidson is too great, because we operate under the quarter system rather than the semester system. Every day brings new material students must absorb before the next day when they receive new material. Then there’s the next day and the next. Students often lose perspective in the daily fight to keep up. They have little time for reflection, assimilation of ideas, coordination of knowledge. There’s only time for the grade vigil. Some can handle the daily onslaught with little trouble. Others choke, spending less and less time with friends, getting less and less involved with extracurricular activities. Still others become so frustrated they punch out windows, bathroom doors, etc.

Nancy McNair

Under a semester system, students would have two days to absorb the material, maybe even synthesize it with what they have learned previously. Ten weeks is not long enough for a novel course, a survey course, a science course, for any course. Ten weeks is not long enough to establish the proper rapport between professor and student. Courses, teachers, and students deserve more than ten weeks to cover a subject even adequately. A semester system would offer that time. There are drawbacks. With the quarter system students can take nine courses. Under the semester system they would probably only take eight. But is the ninth course worth the quality we could get out of eight longer ones? That we need to determine.

The Davidsonian

Catherine Izandis
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins
Charles Erwin
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell
Amanda Hall
Susan Colan
Hunter Jennings
Warren Soule
Brian Menino
Patsy Daniels

Editorial Page Editors
Sports Editors
Managing Editor
Production Manager
Photography Editor
Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Cartoonist

...occupied by the Davidson Freshmen in the celestial hierarchy, the beanies did have their advantages. In the days when the college forbade students to own cars, Davidson students traveled to Charlotte chiefly by “bumming.” There were regular “bumming corners,” pretty well known to commuters—one was in front of Grey House, on a corner of Route 115, and there were a few others in Davidson and in downtown Charlotte. Freshmen wore their “Fresh caps” which most people in the Piedmont of North Carolina recognized (upperclassmen borrowed them on occasion for bumming), and often travelers would detour past the...College in order to give students rides into Charlotte. Out-of-town travelers wrote back to college officials of the good impression their "guest riders" made on them. In the fall of 1968, in what was the first wave of the habit (which is still all too much with us at Davidson) of college students and faculty taking themselves much too seriously, the rule requiring freshmen to wear the traditional red cap during the opening weeks of school was repealed. Other regulations prohibited walking on the grass of the Davidson campus, required freshmen to wear their nametags until the middle of October and memorize the college yells and songs (how many students of any class know the "Alma Mater" today?) by the second week of classes, and required the freshmen to speak to all men they met on campus and tip their hats to the members of the faculty. To enforce these regulations was the job of the Court of Control. The Court was established by an amendment to the Student Body Constitution in the spring of 1923 for the purpose of investigating and dealing with charges made by upperclassmen against freshmen who had exhibited improper conduct, violated the Freshman Regulations, or broken any of the hallowed traditions of the school. Hazing of freshmen by upperclassmen ended rather abruptly in the early 1920s, when 27 Davidson sophomores were suspended for hazing freshmen by President Martin. (In days antebellum, the principal means of hazing freshmen recorded was that of hanging out of a window and yelling "Fresh" at a passing unfortunate.) The Court enforced the regulations and established the tradition and ideal that the status of upperclassman is an honor earned and not conferred. Non-written tradition assigned to freshmen the job of carrying the laundry. A familiar scene was a beanie-clad freshman, already laden with two or three bundles, walking along the path to the laundry when the cry "Hey, Freshman" came from an upper floor as a bag of soiled clothing tumbled from the window above the walk. Among other traditions was that which prohibited freshmen from going to the Post Office before noon, or at least until after all upperclassmen had visited their boxes. Freshmen were also required to attend all major athletic events at least fifteen minutes early, sit together, use the megaphones prescribed for them by the Court of Control, and remain through the entire contest. When the freshmen were deemed worthy by the upperclassmen of entering the college as real students (usually at the time of the Freshman-Sophomore Day contest, pitting the two classes in a life and death struggle over whether the regulations were to end), the joyous students, exulting in their newfound status as Davidson Gentlemen, held a beanie bonfire, burning the hated symbols of oppression, to celebrate the event. (Some, however, kept their beanies as mementos.) These activities of the first year at Davidson molded classes, and, by the honor of upholding the "Davidson spirit," led the class capped by those beanies in the years to come into new experiences and new friendships; for the first requirement for the Davidson Gentleman was always the Davidson Spirit.

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

LOVE 6 Peregrine House
BEST FOOD EAST OF TULSA
HAPPY HOURS
THURSDAY 8:30-10:00 PM
FRIDAY

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
ALL THE PRESIDENT’S MEN
ROBERT REDFORD AND DUSTIN HOFFMAN
$1.00 - 8 & 10:30