April 1, 1977 The Davidsonian

Return to Harlem's heyday

By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Voices, Inc., a black musical theatre group from New York, will perform "Harlem Heyday" Friday at 2 pm in front of Chambers (Love Auditorium in case of rain). Their vaudeville acts are popularized versions of the music and dance of the thirties. Celebrating the era when the new music from Harlem was sweeping America, "Harlem Heyday" includes songs both traditional ("Sweet Georgia Brown", "Darktown Strutters' Ball") and original, plus dancing and humor. Voices, Inc. is currently touring colleges and universities across the nation and has presented this show and another, The Believers, off-Broadway in New York.

VOICES, INC.
Stomp your feet

Bluegrass Blend, a six-member group from Statesville, featuring 1976 Union Grove Banjo Champion Kent Dowell, will take part in the outdoor concert on Richardson Field Saturday afternoon. They will also be appearing in the 900 Room Saturday night at 9:30 pm.

The group, whose members play Dobro, fiddle, guitar, banjo, mandolin, and string bass, cut an album last year called "Blended Grass". Included in their repertoire are traditional standards and original bluegrass compositions.

JAMS O’DONNELL
Friday, April 1, 1977

2 pm Voices Inc., "Harlem Heyday" Front of Chambers
3 pm Frisbee Contest Front of Chambers
4 pm Sculpture Class Union Offices
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: "Psycho" Love Auditorium
10-1:30 am Dance with "Showcase" 900 Room
9-1 am Party - Sigma Phi Epsilon Rusk House
KA Masquerade Party KA House
FIJI Party FIJI House
2 am Coffee and doughnuts College Union

Saturday, April 2, 1977

1:30 pm Outdoor Musical Festival: Football Stadium
John Stanfield, Edmonds & Curley, Bluegrass Blend
8 & 9 pm Edmonds & Curley 900 Room
9:30 pm Bluegrass Blend 900 Room
9-1 am PIKA, PAX, and Emanon Party PIKA House
12 midnight Sidewalk Cafe with "Jams O’Donnell" Union Patio
1 am Breakfast Served Snack Bar
3 am Coffee and doughnuts College Union

Laugh with the duo

They played on The Tonight Show, The Merv Griffin Show, and over 400 college campuses in the U.S. and Canada. Edmonds and Curley are recognized by many reviewers as the nation’s top comedy team in college appearances. The two have appeared in concert with such performers as B.B. King, Papa John Creach, and Herbie Mann, and have played such night spots as the Copacabana and Atlanta’s Great Southeast Music Hall. Their show is based on original skits combined with their own sound effects. Edmonds and Curley will give two 20-minute performances during the afternoon festivities on the football field and will appear in the 900 Room at 8 pm Saturday night.

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

The annual Davidson rite of Spring Frolics is upon us again with concerts, kegs, and parties; and, the Pop Films committee is presenting Alfred Hitchcock’s 1960 horror classic, Psycho, which has been a center of controversy ever since it first came out, with evaluations ranging from "third-rate Hitchcock" to "one of the most profoundly frightening films ever to reach the screen". In either case, it is a wrenching film, pure Hitchcock.

The plot centers around a fairly innocuous-looking motel, where a young office worker named Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) arrives on the lam after stealing some money. She is murdered at the motel, and her sister (Vera Miles) and boyfriend (Continued page 12)