January 21, 1977

The Davidsonian

WAD agrees on illness, not cure

By GAIL MAYNARD
Staff Writer

Do bra-burning, radical, and revolutionary women attend Davidson College?

No, declare a newly organized group on campus called Women At Davidson (WAD) who convened at the Union this week to discuss women’s adjustment problems on campus.

WAD was formed by a small group of coeds who thought these problems needed to be brought to the surface and shared.

The group had formerly been meeting at North Main House but moved onto campus this week so its discussions would receive more widespread attention.

Senior Ruth Murphy defines WAD as a “way to handle problems instead of just complaining.” She likes it because she can “share personal experiences with a group that cares about me as a woman.”

Senior Van Williamson further stated that WAD is not an encounter group, but an issue-oriented organization open to everyone.

WAD plans to discuss and invite guests to speak on issues of sexuality, fear of success, and the choice of career or family.

Sophomore Denise Smith suggested that professors be invited to discuss topics centering on academic competition between males and females.

The possibility of forming a women’s eating house on Patterson Court occupied most of the meeting’s discussion. Junior Angie Wright, a supporter of such a house, gave reasons for establishing an all-female house.

“An all-girl eating house is not to unify the girls against the males, but to give an outlet for them to be together.”

Wright stressed that although not all girls would eat at the house, it would be organized and operated to include every girl on campus.

She said that the house would not become like a sorority because its main focus would center on females relating with themselves, instead of simply attracting males.

Cathy Landis disagreed: “The house might become closer than the others and exclude those who needed a women’s center on campus.” She feels that an all-female house would lead to more trends toward dating, instead of improving relations among females.

Murphy stressed a need for activities at Davidson that support and unify women. “There is a lack of unity among the females at Davidson. It’s hard to relate between girls with so many guys around,” she said.

Dean Rusk scholars
Spring enriched by six from England

By LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

This spring term Davidson College will host six British men and women to be designated as Dean Rusk Scholars.

These students are candidates for Oxford or Cambridge University from the St. Paul’s Schools in London.

Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. said that the program “honors Dean Rusk in a rather appropriate way because of his Rhodes Scholarship at Oxford and his work in foreign affairs.”

Spencer explained that British students who are candidates for Oxford and Cambridge spend a year after their secondary schooling preparing for their entrance into the university.

As part of their preparation, many students travel and encounter new educational experiences. The six that come to Davidson will be using part of their time for that purpose.

The students that will become Rusk Scholars at Davidson were recommended by the schools in England.

This year’s program, which includes four men and two women, is a pilot project but Spencer anticipates that it will become a regular addition to Davidson’s international program. “I would hope we could learn things from this program,” he said.

“There are a couple of immediate advantages for the college,” Spencer pointed out. “It increases the number of international students on campus during the spring term and it will build over the years a group of people in England who are acquainted with Davidson.

“These people will offer us valuable contacts, and they will be among the ablest people of their generation,” he added.

Spencer indicated that the program would cost the college very little. The students will be housed in rooms that are normally vacant during the spring term and the students will have to pay for their own eating arrangements as well as their own transportation. The college is, however, providing them with free tuition.

The St. Paul’s Schools are among the oldest public schools in England. It should be noted that in Britain a “public” school is what Americans would consider a private school.

The St. Paul’s Schools are two separate institutions, one for men and the other for women, that originated in the Middle Ages at St. Paul’s Cathedral. They were founded by the Mercer Company, which was an ancient medieval guild.

Today the schools have their own facilities located in the suburbs of London and are among the finest schools in England.

THE MORNING’S SNOW defied the winter sun's feeble rays. (Irv Wilson)

Psychology Club
Biology Society
present

Prof. Ernst von Glassersfeld

Monday, Jan. 24 at 7:30
Perkins Auditorium

Shop and Save up to 50% OFF
of Winter Wear for Men and Women

OPEN FRIDAY NIGHTS

Jim Meck & Sons
Only Six Miles North — Mooresville