Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

George King 77, “Everyone should be an art major." After two years of college, Kimmel continues, "you know how to
develop your mind in a new way.” Kimmel and King have few complaints about Davidson's art department. "A true artist
has all he needs if he has paint and a place to paint," comments King. Two of Davidson's senior art
majors will follow careers other than art.

Opinion: Jackson feels art is for everyone
By HERB JACKSON
Guest Columnist

When I pick up a brush or a pencil, I am in touch with my ancestors, who, thousands of years
ago, made muddy handprints on the wall of a cave and stepped back in wonder. A print or another hand?
I imagine from my own experience in the studio that this wonder was tinged with fear. Although the techniques and
media have expanded and become more complex over the centuries, the result is still sympathetic magic. The artist is a
conjure-man. Each time is the first time, and the challenge never ends. That’s why I teach art. I believe that
everyone can benefit from a confrontation with self that is not controlled by an internal verbal dialogue. Art is not
simply picture-making. Each time the blank canvas or formless lump of clay is faced, the artist goes a little deeper
inside, building on the insights of previous experience. Very often, success is manifest by failure. I am convinced that students,
especially at Davidson, need a situation in which it is essential to fail before succeeding. Because art is an exploration
into unknown territory, the artist is always slightly beyond his own capabilities. While this is a difficult process, I do
not want to imply that there is not any joy involved. In fact, if I can introduce even a small
percentage of you to the excitement and peacefulness that follows the solution of a visual problem, I will have served
well.

Almost all of our classes are open to students with no prior experience, but we hope that after grappling with
the problem of making a personal statement through art, they will have a deeper appreciation and interest when looking at
the work of others. Our art history area under Professor of Art Larry Ligo provides a perspective through which the
tradition of our discipline can be understood. We do not have room in our classes to service every student at
Davidson, and so the gallery was created as a means to bring art into the center of the campus and
make the experience as open as possible. Throughout the year, we have special exhibitions of contemporary or historical interest. In
addition, selections from the permanent collection are always on view.

The outlook is bright for the future. The administration has put a new visual arts building as a high priority
in the major development campaign. We are planning to offer lithography and sculpture as programs as soon as it becomes
possible in terms of space and staff. We will be able to take on more independent study with ample area
for individual artists to work. Art takes space, and we have labored for years under cramped conditions, but I envision
a day when students will be able to work in paint, charcoal, pencil, crayon, ink, and clay whether they are
beginners or competent. The general art program under Douglas Houchens deserves tremendous gratitude for establishing a viable art program alone
for his belief that art did have a place at Davidson, and he gave us a firm foundation. In light
of the department's small beginning, we have made great progress under his leadership, so that more Davidson students are touched
by art each year; however, important work remains to be done before we can offer a total program. We believe
that art at Davidson is for everyone. Naturally, we are pleased with our majors, and the substantial progress of those
we have graduated, but we are committed to the idea that our energies should be equally available to men and
women who want to use it and feel comfortable there. This is an exciting time.enrolled in a class or not.
Their interest in the arts at Davidson mirrors what is happening all across the United States as people become more
involved with self-exploration. It allows students to still make objective comments, noted one studio major. The student continued: “If I
wanted to go to art school, I wouldn't have come to Davidson until the department had expanded its outreach. The
curriculum is small—no extensive studio, no art degree, no sculpture...the teachers are known but the department is so small.” He
added, “I think I’m getting as much as East Carolina. What I can learn from two men is more because
of the personal attention.”

“For a liberal arts degree,” he explained, “considering all that Davidson offers, total creative possibilities here—Yes, but it’s important to
take advantage of everything here.”

I hope you will take advantage of this unique opportunity. The true potential of art as a discipline is not
always easy to realize in an academic community, where most specialists explore their concepts through words. Professor of Art, although
the Art Department provides limited opportunities for majors, independent studies can produce works like this by Steve Small. Having never
dreamed of going into art history, Ginny Newell has taken advantage of much of what Davidson offers. Newell became interested
in her major through the humanities lectures by Professor Larry Ligo. Newell is well-acquainted with the art department, having almost
taken “more studio courses than anything else.” She also extends her knowledge to others through her gallery work in the
Student Union. She spoke of her one-teacher department, “We do well with what we have. Professor Ligo is personable and
knows his art history. I chose it because it gave me such an appreciation of so much else—you learn more
than just painting—what was happening in society to create such a work.”

This makes up for some of the limitations. Most students attempt to make general contact with the curriculum, which is
bigger here. Yet, the department has many students who appreciate the importance of art. It is easy to see why
Davidson offers a unique environment for those interested in the arts.

Davidson’s first focus is on non-music majors, offering private music lessons and participation in musical groups. Then, there are choices
for those who appreciate music and are qualified for the program. Applications are available for brass instruments, and students will
be accepted whenever possible. A wide range of sacred music and faculty music groups are available. Music students can find
a place in this environment.

Professor Zimmerman outlines Davidson’s art attitude. “At any liberal arts college, the primary function of the fine arts departments should
be to enrich the experiences and heighten the perceptions of liberal arts students,” said Academic Vice President Price Zimmerman, explaining
Davidson College’s philosophical attitude in relation to the fine arts. “We obviously do not have the resources to be a
conservatory or a fine arts academy, nor do we desire to become one,” he said. “What we do have are
departments that provide a certain type of education for those students who want a liberal arts education in the arts.
I realize that I am speaking in a rhetorical tone,” said Zimmerman, “but what I mean is if your ambition
is to be a prima donna at the Met, then Davidson is not the place for you.”

With this in mind, Davidson attempts to teach in a liberal arts context, rather than a strictly professional atmosphere, according
to him. “Davidson's emphasis is on the head and the heart, as we are producing competent artists and musicians who
also have a liberal arts background—in biology, economics, the social sciences, even athletics,” Zimmerman said. Thus, the advantages of the
liberal arts philosophy should be apparent to those whose major field is in the arts, says Zimmerman. “Studio art majors
at Davidson also take relatively as much art history, while at another school, they might only gain a smattering by
means of incidental exposure. It is the same thing with music; we approach the study...
