The Davidsonian — YMCA begins excl
By PAM CAMERRA
Staff Writer

“The Y is an important potential service organization which can raise the value consciousness of the campus and the students’ sensitivity to social concerns,” said YMCA President Jay Silver.

Few students or faculty members realize what the YMCA does, what projects have been undertaken, or what the goals of the organization are. The local YMCA is not directly associated with the national branch of the YMCA but is rather a private service-oriented program of Davidson College.

“The key word of the Y is facilitate,” said Silver. “We need people who are interested in committing themselves, who would like to take an interest in the Y and help the cabinet develop the means to communicate to students and to get ideas for services both on and off campus.”

In order to coordinate the various service organizations on campus, a Community Relations Board, chaired by SGA Senator Will Miller, has been set up. Representatives from the Y, from APO, and from all the houses on Patterson Court meet regularly to inform one another about what each group is doing. The houses on Patterson Court have been taking more of an initiative in starting service projects. The Y serves as a mediator. If there is a need in the community, the Y can approach one of the houses on the Court and suggest that they undertake a project.

One of the major problems of the Y has been its lack of publicity. Therefore, the Y is planning forum lunches and social activities to stimulate student interaction, and the Y will also publicize its events in The Davidsonian and over WDAV. The Y holds informal luncheons at the Depot every Thursday. “Although turnouts have been good, there is a need for more freshman participation,” Silver said. The Y is planning to have occasional speakers and invite former faculty members to these luncheons. The organization is also working on the possibility of using the depot as either a resource center for the elderly, an arts and crafts center, or as a coffeehouse that would offer music and various activities and which would offer an outlet for student talents.

The Y also sponsors SIKP, a tutoring program for elementary school children. In the next year, it hopes to strengthen and expand the program. There are currently sixty tutors, but it would like to have more.

Take power seriously

The most powerful positions students can hold are on the advisory committees and the EPC. Decisions are made and policy is set in the committees concerning the future of Extended Studies, the Honors Center, Patterson Court, club sports, intercollegiate athletics, budget, admissions, and financial aid, just to name a few. These are the areas which directly affect the lives of the students here.

No one knows this. Some students on the committees do not even attend the meetings. Other students either do not know the committees exist or do not take advantage of their potential power on them. Advisory committee members have full vote on any issue. They also have the opportunity to persuade others on the committee to vote as they wish. Equally as important as the vote, however, is the student input. If you are not on a committee, find out who is and tell them how you feel about an issue. If you are on a committee, take your job seriously enough to affect positive decisions and change when necessary. If enough students use their mouths as such, the student voice will be heard.

The Davidsonian
Catherine Landis .......... Editor-in-Chief
Dave Keller... Managing Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ... News Editors
Erica Gjerevik... Features Editor
Jim Entwistle... Sports Editor
Warren Soule .... Editorial Page Editor
Kevin Shelly & Peg Travis ... Business Managers
Amanda Hall & Chuck Kennon ... Special Projects Editors
Hunter Jennings & Irv Wilson ... Production Managers
Dennis McLawhorn.......... Photography Editor
Charles Gwinn... Advertising Editor
Marlin Geiger .............. Circulation Manager
Assistant Editors:
Asst. News Editor
Asst. Features Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Cartoonist
Asst. Projects Editor

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Complaints
By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

All year long, Davidsonian articles have been laced with complaints of an academic program on the decline, the quality of courses and professors not being in keeping with the needs of the students. The student body has taken to the media...to complain of academic standards that are too stringent, forcing students into an apathetic social system in which they are unable to confront members of the opposite sex with any marked degree of reality or social maturity. Still, others assail an administration with deaf ears, totally unyielding to students’ demands. The administration claims that “we are working on it.” Well, who is in the right? Who possesses the secret for solving all our problems and grievances? To some degree, we are all correct, and we all have the resources to rid ourselves of these unwanted circumstances. Then, why all the fuss? Why blame Sam Spencer, Will Terry, the SGA, Scotty Nicholls, the police, the faculty, the coaches, the girls, the national fraternities, the guy across the hall? Try blaming ourselves for a change. If we gain nothing else from the Davidson Experience, the liberation of a liberal arts education, we must recognize that we are all human, we all err, and grades are...

As regarding G. E. Michalson’s article in the recent Davidsonian, I overwhelmingly empathize with his sentiment; however, I can’t help but feel somewhat tired and bitter upon hearing it another time, just as I did back in high school. The whole concept of grades being unimportant and that learning is the true reward is a thoroughly acceptable ideal and in our present society a total crock. For nearly six years now, numerous and varied teachers have tried to impress me with this attitude and the fine institutions where they work have always responded to this fullest capacity by showing it to be inapplicable. As long as we’re stuck in a culture that has to evaluate and numerate everything to a set standard, personal achievement as felt by the individual alone leads to nothing positive outside his own inner universe. Even were someone to feel completely satisfied with his present evolution towards his intellectual...

...ting-spring term increase the number to 100. There has been a problem recently in the variety and number of activities that tutors can participate in with their tutees. Currently, the Y is looking into opening up the ceramics workshop in the Union for those in the STEP program. It is also trying to make the tutors aware of activities available in the Community Center, which sponsors basketball clinics and arts and crafts programs. The Christmas fund drive provided the Y with enough money to give the Community Center $500 to buy a movie projector so that cartoons and short films can be shown.

...don’t help we must work together if we are ever to amount to anything in the real world. Easier said than done. Granted, President Spencer is very much at fault for failing to realize our needs and wants. But we are at fault for not making Uncle Sam, or any other administrator, aware of our problems. As one Davidsonian staffer recently noted, the campus attitudes and causes of the sixties are now history. But one problem lingers on, and we will be forever burdened by it if we do not act immediately. We must bridge the omnipresent gap between students and administration. Otherwise, we will always have an outdated Science Building, an inadequate Infirmary, rising vandalism, freshmen disappointed at self-selection, a losing and criticized jockocracy, and a narrow course selection, a hampered and pampered administration. Everyone will never be totally satisfied all the time, or else no one would be at Davidson to learn and to improve. But griping is not the solution, for actions will always speak louder than words. We all were judged as having the motivation and intellect to be admitted here, so let’s all put our brains in gear instead of our mouths. Case rests... until we do something!

...necessary nirvana, when he tries to continue his search and finds it swiftly stifled by an attached combination of 5 specific letters, it may prove difficult not to imagine that somewhere along the line grades manage to have an adverse effect on his life. I certainly don’t see Davidson as being a leader in any revolutionary movement towards eradicating this ridiculous practice, so until we all divorce ourselves from the fetters of this transient material world, I fear the professors will just have to suffer those attempts at labeling one’s self-G.P.A. acceptable, unless, of course, they don’t mind supplying the world with more taxi cab drivers and orange packers who have to try to find personal contentment with the realization that they have been enhanced and everyone just doesn’t appreciate them (or did all Davidson professors obtain their present position with mediocre, institutionalized credentials?).

Jason Noble '78
Davidson College