April 8, 1977 The Davidsonian

Go PIRG offers form; tackles wilds, cans, and prison

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

The North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) has completed its Off-Campus Housing Guide for Davidson students. This guide
contains a listing of the location, number of living units, conditions, rental fees, and “other pertinent information” necessary for people
who want to use off-campus housing,” according to John Hedrick, Chairperson of NC PIRG.

Completed early this week, copies of the guide have been placed at the Union information desk, the library desk, the
NC PIRG desk in the Union’s student offices, and in Scotty Nicholls’ and Dean Terry’s offices. NC PIRG members have
been visiting Davidson students in an effort to “involve students more heavily in the PIRG organization,” said Hedrick.

Point of Order

The purpose of these visitations is to acquaint the student body with the goals and functioning of NC PIRG, and
to solicit both ideas and help from the student body, Hedrick explained. A similar visitation among the faculty is planned
for the upcoming weeks.

Beyond these Davidson-centered projects, NC PIRG has several ongoing projects of national concern. First, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area wilderness
in northern Minnesota is threatened with exploitation if the Fraser Bill, presently being considered by the U.S. Congress, is not
passed. Hedrick sees the passing of this bill as “a major environmental concern,” as its rejection by Congress would represent
the first such opening of lands proclaimed as wilderness areas.

To aid the bill’s success, Hedrick and NC PIRG members are carrying a petition door-to-door, requesting signatures. When every on-
and off-campus housing facility has been visited, “the petition will be forwarded to the North Carolina delegation of the U.S.
Congress.”

PIRG members are delving into the issue of beverage container legislation, another national concern. Stationing themselves outside the Harris Teeter
supermarket in Cornelius, Hedrick and Frank Dale asked shoppers to fill out a questionnaire and indicate their preference for returnable
or non-returnable beverage containers. Based on some 150 responses, Hedrick sees the trend “going toward returnable beverage containers” at the
moment. Additional response will be sought this Wednesday and Thursday from shoppers at Cashions supermarket, also in Cornelius.

A third ongoing NC PIRG

Young delays referendum

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

The proposed addition to the College Constitution, scheduled to be presented to the student body in a referendum last Tuesday,
has been postponed at the order of SGA President Thom Young. The addition proposed to make the President of Patterson
Court an ex officio member of the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Young learned that the President of the
Union is also not on the council. Since he believes that the Union Board president should be an ex officio
member, he has introduced a new constitutional amendment to add both presidents to the council. The new amendment must have
two readings before the Senate before the student

PAC plan differs from current practice

[Continued from page 1]

This rejected form is handed to new professors by the Academic Vice-President as the basis for their evaluation. It’s hard
for a professor “to know the way it really is,” according to Kaylor. The PAC plan does differ in some
respects from current college practice, according to Kaylor. For instance, the plan states that department chairmen should serve for five-year
terms with the possibilityHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of reappointment. Presently, department chairmen serve no definite terms. The PAC plan makes it clear that the faculty do not
oppose student evaluation questionnaires. It states, "The Vice-President for Academic Affairs shall give every student the opportunity to evaluate each
course and the performance of each teacher through the use of a standardized questionnaire." But PAC does maintain that such
questionnaires must be confidential, must be signed by the student to eliminate frivolous answers, and must not be filled out
until after the exam period. Also, PAC asks that the faculty be informed of exactly what the forms will be
used for.

Under the new College Constitution, it is the responsibility of the "President or his delegate" to meet with PAC and
come up with a "Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures." Kaylor said that he has not been approached by Dr. Spencer
on the subject and that presumably he would be the first to hear if such a code was being compiled.

The student referendum has been rescheduled for April 20.

Tax Council reports
Chairman Steve Barnes of the Activities Tax Council appeared before the Senate and received approval of his committee’s work. The
committee, which allocates funds to various student groups, earmarked $3000 for the Senate. Forty dollars of each student’s tuition goes
into the Activities Tax Fund.

Committee selection
The Third Screening Committee, chaired by Ralph Yielding, presented three candidates for the two positions on the Finance, Personnel and
Development Committee. Susan Baynard, Jim Kuster, and Bruce Lantelme were the candidates. Kuster and Lantelme were appointed. The Senate unanimously
approved Susan Davidson and Stacy Johnson to the Academic and Cultural Committee.

Stuart Bondurant, member of the Senate Security Committee, was praised by Chairman Hans Watford for his work on the Bicycle
Registration Program.

Two reprimanded
Young reprimanded Senators Rick Rauck and John Steifel for their poor attendance at the Senate meetings. He urged the Senate
to apply "peer pressure" on these senators in the hope of improving their attendance.

DAVIDSON
A project of national interest is their prison reform program. NC PIRG has helped arrange for a visit by David
Rothenburg to the Davidson campus. Rothenburg is one of the founders of the Fortune Society, a national organization "committed to
bringing ex-convicts back into society in a meaningful way," explained Hedrick. Also in conjunction with prison reform, NC PIRG is
working with the Davidson Penology Seminar, and is trying to set up summer internships which would be available not for
salary, but "for the experience."

Next year’s NC PIRG officers have been elected. David Snyder will be Chairperson, Tom Johnson will serve as the NC
PIRG State Board Representative and Co-Treasurer, David Barnard will serve as Co-Treasurer, and Chuck Gaddy will serve as NC PIRG
Secretary and will be in charge of publicity for the organization. Next year’s other board members will be Sam Crawford,
Kevin Taylor, Frank Rambo, and Maria Patterson.

To all students and Faculty of Davidson College:
The Davidson Christian Fellowship requests the honor of your presence at an Open House
Tuesday, April 11, 10:00-12:00
ETC House
Refreshments to be served

THE CHOICE OF CHAMPIONS
NEED WE SAY MORE, EXCEPT
New Stocks Just Arrived
Come Select Yours Today.
Sizes XS To XXL
Also Munsingwear And Jantzen Sportswear
John Mack & Son
Only 6 miles North - Mooresville

First Union National.
