The Davidsonian
March 11, 1977

Scholars push cultural exchange
By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Davidson students were greeted by six new faces upon their return from Spring Break—new students with an unmistakable British accent.
They’re the first recipients of the newly-formed Dean Rusk scholarship program, who will be at Davidson for the remainder of
the spring term.

Nicholas Bitel, Lucy Carlisle, Neil Howlett, Patrick Macaskie, Sidney Meyers, and Philippa Keil all attended St. Paul’s School in London,
which Philippa described as a “brother-sister school set-up within fifteen minutes cycling distance of each other.” They completed their schooling,
the equivalent to American high school, in December, and do not enroll in the universities until October 1977, so the
Rusk program provided an excellent opportunity for them to study and travel in the States.

They will be carrying the normal academic load while here, and all plan to work in some extra-curriculars as soon
as they get settled in their courses. Neil, Patrick, and Nicholas, all veteran rugby players, are planning to play with
the Davidson ruggers. Philippa is interested in drama, and hopes to land a part in the upcoming Spring Drama Department
Production. Sidney hopes to do some traveling in the South while here, and Lucy wants to take part in the
Outing Club’s activities for this spring.

When asked about their first impressions of Davidson, Philippa told about their meeting with a Davidson alumnus before they departed
for the U.S. “He was a really sweet man, but he gave me the wrong impression—a distorted view. He said
it was quiet, peaceful, with not much going on. So I fancied it would be like a monastery, with no
alcohol, no boys in the dorms, and bed-time by 8 o’clock!” Lucy added, “I asked him what activities went on,
and he said, ‘Well, sometimes they have debates.’ So we were pleasantly surprised with all of the activity.”

Sidney and Lucy liked the idea of having a host family. “In England they might invite you to attend classes
and that would be it—not much else.” (Hunter Jennings)

They were particularly quick to point up the differences between the American and British education systems. In Britain, students decide
what field they will [see SCHOLARS, page 12]

Students don a suntan to fit any occasion
By SANFORD S.
Staff Writer

Spring fever has hit Davidson, and its most vocal expression can be found in the hundreds of returning suntans running
around campus. To the casual observer, this popular phenomenon can be explained by several common causes—status, sun, and the search
for scenery along the Florida coastline. The trained eye, however, will uncover a host of different suntan objectives and techniques.
There’s a different Suntan Look for practically everyone’s taste.

For those fortunate Davidsonians born and bred south of the Georgia state line, there is the Perpetual Suntan Look. It’s
easy to spot one; along with a bronzed physique, the Perpetual Suntanner often has a casual, relaxed manner, and when
one asks what he did over vacation, he nonchalantly replies, “Oh, not much, I just sat around home.” Modesty is
the key to the Perpetual Suntan Look.

Contrary to popular belief, there is no such thing as an Atlanta Suntan. One belle, whose tan closely resembled the
Perpetual Look, explained the special technique she and her fellow Atlantans use to rival their neighboring Floridians: “We go for
the slow and gradual approach, plus we use lots of QT.” In spite of this less-than-genuine formula, the Atlanta crowd
clearly knows how to enjoy getting a suntan. An evening of dancing and playing bingo at Sea Island’s famed Cloister
will convince even the staunchest Floridian that there are many different ways to skin a cat when it comes to
suntans.

While only a select few choose to achieve the suntans in such elegance, many Davidsonians rough it out on the
Florida beaches. Getting there is an important ingredient to one’s personalSuntan Look. Senior Steve Peeples relates the great lengths which
he went to produce his own unique suntan. “We hit the Florida Keys with medium strength, and stayed in campgrounds
that looked like rejects from a Steinbeck novel. We did find one in Key Largo we liked, which resembled Resurrection
City. After fighting off the armadillos, rabbits, and raccoons, we cruised up to Palm Beach to ‘continue our pursuit of
the sun.’” Steve’s pilgrimage has yielded what could only be described as the Been-Through-It-All Suntan Look. During the course of
his travels, ESPRIT YOUR FRENCH CONNECTION Complete summer studies program in France with sessions in Paris, Nice, and Strasbourg. Up
to 16 hours credit in French and/or European history. Co-sponsored by Wheaton College and Taylor University. 3-week, 7-week, 10-week sessions
from $1350 including airfare. Some financial aid available. For details, contact: ESPRIT, Box 636, Wheaton College, Wheaton, Illinois 60187. Peeples
had a chance to compare the suntans of each locale he visited. “The Palm Beach area,” he said, “produces your
Basic Leisurely Suntan.” Crucial ingredients to the Leisurely Tan are a string bikini, lots of Coppertone, and an overwhelming desire
to play dead for three days. A different garden-variety suntan is found around Key West. “This is the home of
your Basic Working Class Suntan, where your face and forearms are the only parts that get really tan.” Peeples commented
that he identifies strongly with the Working Class Tan, and even has his own personal recipe for achieving it. “My
basic approach,” he explained, “is to use a quick six of Busch beer, then fall asleep on the softest object
available, which is generally my face.” Lest anyone be fooled into passing up such low-grade alcoholic tastes, Peeples warns that,
“To substitute Schlitz would lead to an incredible sunburn. Your timing would be way off.” So much for Southern Suntans.
A more rugged Look can be found, under the proper conditions, at any of the hundreds of winter ski resorts
that dot the frozen Northern and Western regions of the country. Several popular varieties are the Vail Tan, known for
its Presidential appeal, the Aspen Tan, The Stowe Tan, and the Sugarbush Tan. These suntans often promote such accessories as
chapped lips, red forehead, jock itch, and an occasional case of frostbite. A final Northern Suntan which deserves mention is
the New York Suntan, which consists primarily of third-degree burns. Anyone who recalls the movie, The Heartbreak Kid, can easily
envision the distinctive character of the New York Suntan. A close cousin of the New York Tan is the Long
Island, or J.A.P. (Just About Perfect) Suntan. Found usually in the Miami or Fort Lauderdale Area, the J.A.P. Tan is
often accompanied by a sporty MG or a Mercedes 450 SL. Moving closer to home, as temperatures rise and academic
appetites wane, a new suntan, known as the Lake Norman Look, will take over Davidson. Still, the Suntan Look is
not subscribed to by everyone. Senior “Stretch” Rice, who spent his vacation sleeping during the day and tanning under the
moon at night, commented that, “In twenty years the hard-core suntanner’s skin will be as wrinkled as prunes.” Another anti-tanner,
who watched the snow melt in Columbus, Ohio, during his break, cautioned young ladies against tanning, since, “The drunker I
get, the better looking the girls get, so why waste your time in the sun?” Disparaging remarks aside, most Davidsonians
agree that the Suntan Look is a definite asset. Said one, “Now that I have my tan, my vanity has
increased, and I’m enjoying wearing it just as much as I enjoyed getting it.” HELP WANTED: COLORADO WYOMING MONTANA Summertime
employees for dude ranches, Nat. Parks, and U.S. Forest Service. For information and directory send $3.00 to Outdoor Services Box
349 Cody, Wyoming 82414 PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. Parks Rexall Drugs COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.
Weekly Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
