The Davidsonian — December 9, 1977

IMAC Report —

Burned-out B-Ballers bravely bound

By BAD BERNARD AND HOGMAN

Immediately after last year’s championship game in which the SAEs downed the Phi Delts by one point at the buzzer,
players were heard leaving the gym mumbling about their team’s chances for the next year. Well, that year is here,
and the teams and players seem better than ever. Returning from last year’s SAE championship team are several starters, and
a wealth of talent moves up from last year’s junior varsity. The Delts have opted for a name change, gone
under new front office management, and with their signing of several free agents from next door, they may prove to
be the strongest team in the league. But it is no longer a two-team race—that is not if a Woodberry
by the name of White and a Blackberry by the name of Piercy have anything to do with it.

Included in this year’s handbook are all the statistics on your favorite players, teams, and coaches. Bernie and Hogman have
worked long hours, scouting practices and interviewing players, and we hope you will enjoy this handbook as much or more
than our others.

THE BAD BERNARD HOGMAN DANDY DOZEN

Every year we try to let you know which players to watch, and this year we feel we can offer
you twelve legitimate All-IMAC preseason candidates. Some are established names and legends in IMAC circles, while others are relatively new
and promise not to be sleepers for long.

1. Andy McDonald—6’3” 185—Could be the most underrated player in IMAC—jumper that won’t quit and team player all the way.
Could be key for SAEs second straight title.
2. Locke White—6’2” 175—Left DC varsity over salary dispute, possibly owns the best jump shot in IMAC—great penetrating guard with
deadly passes.
3. Stan Brown—6’5” 205—Strong player in all aspects of the game—good shooting touch, but must work on his 2.3 rpg—Davidson
coach Ed Farrell said, “Stan is the type of player a team must have to win.”
4. Gifford Piercy—6'1" 180—A great leaper who could lead his frosh hall to the promised land—still must prove he can
be a consistent scorer against tougher opponents.
5. Rob Murray—6’ 165—Great all-round team player and hustler who led his team to the finals a year ago. Jumper
is good all the way to 18 feet and he can ignite a dynamic break which can turn any game
around.
6. Bob Lapple—6’ 190—Physical guard who was nicknamed Dr. Dunk because of his superb leaping ability. Good jump shooter, but
unfortunately he passes like John Gerdy.
7. Tim Stoll—6’6” 215—A sleeper through freshman year and then looked tough in playground summer league play. A moose of
a man with a good shooting touch—Could emerge as best big man in A league.
8. David Jones—6’6” 185—Missed most of last year due to injuries—a great shooter for a big man and he is
very agile around the boards—must be more physical and more consistent.
9. Min Accom Sinclair—6’1” 175—Piercy in what may be the best freshman backcourt to ever play A league. True hustler
from the word go. Has a nice shot and gives the ball up when teammates are open.
10. Paul Collins—6’6”

IN ACTION against Converse, Sally Bondurant launches a shot over defenders as Sarah Womack moves in for position. Look for
a women’s basketball story next week.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE190 Quick forward with moves around the hole similar to Albert King. Called ‘Tex’ by his teammates, the big
kid can whip outlet passes the length of the court.

11. Mike Peskosky - 6’2”
Appropriately known as the enforcer of intramurals—distant relative of Maurice Lucas—has the power game of a Dantley and at tournament
time he can pull shots out of his boxer shorts.

12. Tim Goodell - 6’5” 200
Must combine with Bondurant and Daisley to give the rebounding Es need for their running game—possesses a sight-jump shot and
is very team-oriented.

Possible Breakthroughs: George Flowers, Adrian Wilson, Bill Sherwood, Scott Logan, Terry McDonald, Chip Bondurant, Mike Daisley, Bobby Lasley, Charles Taylor,
Powell Slaughter, Fly Williams, Eddie Pollock, Mike Schafer, Bill Sellars, Bo McGrath, Chris Dodds, and Stoney Reuning.

FIVE TEAMS TO WATCH

1. Mothership Connection
Well-coached club by senior Mike Knowles. They are well stacked up front with (Liberty) Belle Erdman and Jane Perkins (Steak
and Cake) working in the front office. Knowles will emphasize a fast break-oriented attack and this year he has the
material to do this. Only weakness could be inconsistent play from the big men.

2. SAE #1
Wilson and Brown return from an undefeated ball club last year. The SAEs were defeated earlier this year in 3
on 3 play and it is hard to say what type of effect this will have on team morale. Bondurant
returns from Europe but he must eventually realize that a tennis racket is not used in roundball. Goodell, Daisley, McDonald,
and Reuning are all new and must blend in.

3. Hurtin’ for Certain
Highest rank ever given to a freshman hall. To compete, someone must emerge as a dominant pivotman. Could be Tornetto...
Porter and Merten are physical on the boards but too short. Piercy and Sinclair are tough and backed up by
Dillard and Sealander.

4. McFunk and Dr. Dunk
Team could be tough despite poor choice of name. What can one say about Locke White, the multi-talented guard? Stroud
and Schafer are both tough, but Woodall and Ratliff must prove themselves down under the bucket before this team is
a contender.

5. Tie between Hand Sown, Home Grown and Tex’s KAs.
Both teams have the big men it takes to win, but it is still too early to predict their outcomes.

In the B League, it looks as if the Reign of Terror (What are these guys doing in the B
League) could be an easy winner. Challenging them will be the gentlemen and scholars known as the Squatty Bodies. To
be a Squatty Body one must be under six feet tall and over 200 pounds. They rely on their quickness
and tend to be shy of the physical game which takes place under the boards.

One Final Note: A Bad Bernard and Hogman congratulation to Mr. George Bright who busted the century barrier this week
as he consumed 100 beers in a mere seven days. Way to go George and we give you our best
wishes as you recover.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
