The Davidsonian — Studio Staff Writer

I may have fooled myself before, but the criteria I use when looking at contemporary painting is no different from
the one I adopt when I view a Rembrandt, an ancient Polynesian wood carving, or an Assyrian painting. The creative
process has always been the same, and will remain so. That is, the painter looks at nature and consciously or
subconsciously is inspired by some aspect of it, and paints it as he sees it. The quality of the painting
depends on the artist. In other words, what matters is how great the artist’s spirit is. Ezra Pound has told
us: “It is not so much what an artist says, but with what degree of intensity he says it.”

The eight studio art majors—Paula Schmidt, Steve Kimmel, Laura Calhoun, Nat Harrison, Patti Smisson, George King, Peter Green, and Steve
Fitzgerald—are currently exhibiting their works in the Chambers Art Gallery and each reveal their own stylistic innovations.

Peter Green
The one constant in Peter’s work, as far as I could see, is a kind of furious energy that allows
him to produce a great deal of one kind of work and to shift rather rapidly from one style to
another. His “Untitled” watercolor and ink is a bold story of conflict. Indeed he is a skillful storyteller who combines
images and paint splashes to produce elliptical narratives that strongly hint at repressed desires and unspeakable perversities.

Steve Fitzgerald
Steve presented five graphite works, all revealing the emergence of a mature and original style. His “Self-portrait” has lines protruding
across the face which suggest slits of radiant light, like those emanating from holy figures in Sienese painting. His drawings
deliberately create a type of immediate experience that is abruptly transferred to the memory.

STUDENT ART SHOW opened Tuesday, April 19.

Nat Harrison
Working mainly in watercolors and acrylic, Nat has often tried a new innovation of what he calls “a personable approach
on color: That is, working colors together that aren't usually associated with each other.” Nat’s works are soft and pleasant
to the eye. The abundance of its personality makes it appear that he is working backward from abstraction toward representation,
not in terms of imagery per se, but in terms of energy. His energy is not frantic, but controlled. Nat’s
forms seem to drift off the canvas.

Patti Smisson
The use of bright color is a way of distinguishing Patti’s acrylic work. She says that she likes “sharp color,
not muted tones, because the duller tones are too muddy-looking.” Her primary themes are mythological and classic, and have a
quality of their own. All of her works evoke a strong sense of power.

George King
George’s huge “Self-portrait” was the first thing that my eye focused on when I walked in the gallery. His colors
are vaguely reminiscent of Matisse and Gauguin. His “Dormitory Window” evokes a nostalgic feeling unique in its own way. The
paradox of this painting is that the several self-effacing collaged strips are unifying elements. They also provide visual punctuation, in
their generally asymmetrical placement, organizing and counterbalancing large areas that otherwise seem bland.Brighten Union

By JAYNE REICH
Staff Writer

The colorful fabrics of Maija Isola have the same effect on the white expanse of the Union walls as they
do for the Finnish winter. Her lively designs catch your eye with their carefully coordinated colors and original contemporary composition
derived from nature.

Isola, a native of Finland, is one of Marimekko’s four designers, contributing some 400 designs (copied from her paintings) to
the company. It has been said that she will be known as one of the greats in 20th-century textile design.
In Finland, one sees her designs on window shades, cafes, and on people. Marimekko is a common word in the
country and Isola is a national heroine.

Recently, Isola moved to Boone, N.C., where her associations with Marimekko and her art will not be interrupted. She paints
the designs on ten-meter rolls which are easily mailed and comments that the designs are first paintings, then fabrics. The
Appalachian mountains are an excellent inspiration for this woman who works from nature.

We tend to equate bright colors with frivolity and cheeriness, but Isola’s works are bold, personal interpretations. Her manner is
demure and calm and like a muse, quietly arouses people’s feelings without their knowing how. Isola will be in Charlotte
Saturday afternoon, April 23 at Le Masters where her fabrics are on sale. Presently exhibiting at Wachovia National Bank, Isola
will also be having a show in New York City this summer.

PEREGRINE HOUSE
THURS. & FRI. | HAPPY HOUR 8-10:30
BLUEGRASS MUSIC THURSDAY NIGHT
DONATIONS GO TO CHILDREN'S SCHOOLHOUSE

LOVE $1.00

Laura's show of five silk screens, a diverse collection done over the past year, looks as though the artist’s intent
was that each aspect of her abstraction—surface, color, shape, and line—be as distinct and as full of personality as possible
to the point of conflict between the elements. Laura appears to count on the conflict of unlike qualities to give
her work its appeal. These works, a little like nervous teenagers, are alternately ingratiating and antagonistic, sophisticated and dopey.

Paula Schmidt

Paula’s presentation of only one painting made it difficult for me to make any valid evaluation of her work. Even
so, Paula has a good sense of color, a sense of elemental profundity, a self-aware sophisticated primitivism.

Steve Kimmel

Steve predominantly works in oils. His subjects range from multi-toned field paintings to gargantuan deep-colored forms. The canvasses he presented
in the show are all done in very bright pigments—a silver green, a dark maroon, a pale mauve, a sky
blue permeated by a red blush. The surface of his painting “Tissue Dreams” glitters, like water catching the light at
an angle, yet they have the solidity of the highly wrought. It looks (as much as I hate to use
this word) organic—like snakeskin, except for the warmth imparted by Steve’s rich colors and the evidence of his concentration.

D.C. POP FILMS PRESENTS:
MEL BROOKS’ WACKY WESTERN
Blazing Saddles
FRIDAY 8:00 & 10:30
