The Davidsonian

Drinking and alcoholism: how do you swallow it?

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

Do not deduce all-encompassing truths from the following comments of nine Davidson students. I have conducted no scientific poll on
alcoholism at Davidson. Consider instead the locus of your personal opinion on this spectrum of diverse, randomly-selected viewpoints.

“When I was in high school I did not drink much—alcohol was just not available. Then I came here and
went ape.” This student explained that since his freshman year he has moderated his drinking habits (which “definitely hurt me
academically”) and now averages about two beers per night six nights a week. He views drinking as a form of
social interaction, “the easiest way to talk to people.” He and some friends, several of whom have “heavy drinking habits,”
are the prime movers of a new social organization on campus. They gather informally in the 900 Room with a
special title. “First there is ‘Mellow Monday,’” he explains, “then, ‘Tranquil Tuesday.’” In order from there are ‘Wipeout Wednesday,’ ‘Thoughtless
Thursday,’ ‘Fry-Day,’ and Saturday—well, Saturday’s the weekend.” (And you know what that means.)

“I’m a reformed alcoholic. I used to drink a fifth of whiskey every week—now I drink about twice a week,
usually with meals. Why did I drink? Escapism. At Davidson if you cannot have fun you can always have alcohol.
How and why did I slow down? Stopping was not a single conscious decision. It was a slow process as
I realized that I did not enjoy waking up feeling like shit, that drinking cost too much money, and that
my problem did not go away.”

A “moderate drinker” (as he labeled himself) agreed that “freshmen go wild—getting away from home, blowing it out,” but insists
that most drinkers then taper off to moderation. He revealed that a friend of his was at one time a
problem drinker. “Depression over the two g's—girls and grades—drove him to drink up to a case of beer a day.”
Through personal will and peer encouragement the drinker conquered his problem.

Another student does not drink because his circle of friends in high school never started and because “it’s not something
I want to do.” He does not feel his social life is missing anything because of his abstinence, but he
maintains that “you have to have alcohol” to stage a successful social event on Patterson Court. “I think most people
go to those parties to drink...there always seem to be more lined up at the keg than on the dance
floor.” He complains of the disturbances and vandalism, perpetrated by some who drink too much. “Being drunk is used as
an excuse to get away with things.”

Another teetotaler who described himself as “tolerant” of drinkers believes that use of alcohol increases at college because people “get
excited about the thought of doing things you cannot do at home.” “Freshman year I did not drink much. Sophomore
year I drank heavily to relieve tension. Now I drink from habit. I enjoy the social aspect and continue to
go to the 900 Room because my friends are there.” She drinks six nights a week, sees herself as a
“heavy drinker moving to moderation,” motivated partially by a desire to improve academically. She too has friends who are or
were problem drinkers. “I had a friend who was a very heavy drinker until he woke up one morning and
the first thing he said was ‘I want a Scotch.’ That scared him.”

“I do not see what the problem with alcohol is. I just have a few Scotch and waters after I
get up and I do not even think about alcohol until after lunchtime. Then on the weekends I go through
a few cases of Jack Daniels—but I don’t feel that it’s any big problem. Whenever I get worried about it
I whip up a few daiquiris, sit down and talk it out with myself.”

“Now you want to know what I really think? I consider myself a social drinker. I very rarely drink during
the week, primarily because I can’t spare the money or the time. Maybe an occasional beer at dinner after aflickerball
game, but that’s it. “On weekends, I usually enjoy a few drinks at a cocktail party or a few beers
in the 900 Room because I like the taste and because it relaxes me. But it is a means to
an end, not an end in itself. The key to unwinding is the company of close friends and not the
alcohol. I drink for two reasons. First, because I like the taste. Second, to get the tension out of my
body fast. This place has contributed to my drinking—the tension gives me another stimulus to drink. I’ve been drinking since
the eighth grade. My parents were moderate drinkers; they didn’t mind that I drank. It was never a big deal
for me—I drank beer at family cookouts, Jack Daniels–spiked eggnog at Christmas parties, etc.”

In her early Davidson days, she went on “binges.” “I’d start with a couple of mixed drinks, then follow them
with a few beers. Next, I’d share bottles of wine, pitchers of beer, and fifths of bourbon with a few
friends. I think my drinking is more of a habit now. I don’t go on binges like I used to.”
She now drinks every day; some days one beer, some days six or more. And that doesn’t count special occasions
when mixed drinks, wine, and whiskey supplement the beer. “I spend about three times more money on alcohol than I
do on food. I average about $20 a week.”

“There are stages of being an alcoholic, levels of alcoholism.” She considers herself at the lower end of the “alcoholic
scale” but believes she has a healthy attitude towards drinking. “I’m aware that I could not continue at this pace
for more than a year. People who ignore their habit are in trouble. I tell myself now that I’m an
alcoholic so that when I’m 40 I won't be.”

Her close friend at home was killed by a drunk driver. Contrary to expectation, however, she does not launch into
a tirade about the evils of alcoholism. She is reflective, wary, and not reactionary. “Drinking on campus is pretty harmless,
I suppose. But I worry that it is breeding bad habits for later in life.”

She drinks sporadically—once, maybe twice a week, though “to be quite honest, I wonder why I take a drink.” She
knows friends who use drinking as a crutch. “They seem to be under the impression that you need a false
stimulation to have a good time. I wonder if it is a myth that you have to have a drink
to have fun.” She doubts that a Court party could be successful without alcohol. “I think that is a sad
commentary. I don’t go because everyone sits around half-drunk.” Recalling the memories of people sick after drinking too much, passed
out on the floor, suffering from hangovers, she is baffled by those who overindulge. “I just don’t understand why people
do it.”

BEFORE the 900 Room opened, Scott predicted each would spend $1.50 on beer.

Query By JOE CRAIG Staff Writer

When Davidson upperclassmen returned to campus in September, they discovered, to the indignant surprise of many, that one of their
favorite haunts, the 900 Room, had undergone a modification. No longer were they allowed to come and go as they
please; positive proof of age was required, either in the form of a Driver’s license or a college ID. Ron
Scott, director of ARA Slater Dining Service, which holds the beer and wine license for the 900 Room, gave the
reasons for the change in policy for admittance.

“From the inception of the 900 Room, we intended to have a doorman present on nights that we anticipated crowds.
However, for the past two years, neither the Union Board nor myself were satisfied.” Scott said that the former policy
was simply inconsistent. “There was often a slack attitude among some of the doormen, who would let in some without
carding them, and then turn others away if they couldn't show proof of age. It was just an unfair situation
all the way around.” Scott pointed out that he could have scanned the room visually to spot potential troublemakers, but
with this method, there was no definite...
