April 29, 1977

It cannot do so by restricting the beliefs, thoughts, ideas, and aspirations of its students or its faculty without destroying
itself as a college. This is not a church. We do not select students on the basis of their beliefs.
We do not require that students participate in religious ceremonies.

“In such an atmosphere, it seems to me the theological propositions, the beliefs that I have, need no institutional protection.
I am proud of my Christian faith, I am proud of my beliefs. I do not think they have to
be institutionally protected from the beliefs of other disciplines, of other religions, of any other critics that want to debate
them. This is the idea of a Christian community. The church has a presence here, but not a presence that
inhibits the truth and the education of youth.”

Although Minister to Students Rush Otey was scheduled to give the Benediction at the ceremony inside, he decided to boycott
the Convocation and remain outside.

“Since I’m a good old boy and enjoy laughing and having a good time together, I want to begin by
echoing the personal statements of others that this has been a difficult decision for me to make to be here
instead of in there.

“First of all, I am here at this time because I believe that, as a community, we have taken the
rigors of the law too seriously, and the freedom and the love and the grace of the Gospel not seriously
enough. To me what is symbolized out here is an openness which rejects a closed-mindedness born out of yesterday’s perceptions...”

Professor of Religion R. David Kaylor

The love of Jesus Christ and His freedom is expressed in such a way that voluntary admission, voluntary acceptance, and
voluntary commitment is expressed.

“So first of all, I want to maintain that on the educational side, you cannot have a college or university
where you restrain the pursuit of truth. And I want to maintain also that in our society, this is a
very, very difficult thing to do. Colleges and universities are the few places left where it is possible for people
to speak their beliefs, even where they are unpopular. There’s no way that you can squelch an idea. You can
try, you can keep out believers, you can keep out advocates of that idea, you can burn books—you can do
all these things and the idea will still survive. This is what motivates man. I want Davidson College to be
a Christian institution in the sense that academic freedom is genuinely possible: that ideas can be pursued wherever they lead,
that the love of Jesus Christ and His freedom is expressed in such a way that voluntary admission, voluntary acceptance,
and voluntary commitment is expressed.

“Secondly, I am here because the one whom his disciples called Rabbi said, ‘Ye shall know the truth, and the
truth shall make ye free.’

“Thirdly, I am here not only because of my continual dialogue with faculty and staff on issues such as Christian
tenure, but also because in this instance, I have been convicted of my conscience by the faith and the hope
of students with whom I am proud to minister.

“And fourthly, I am here because I think that every situation needs a bit of humor. And one of the
reasons that we are in our present predicament is that we are taking ourselves too seriously. It seems to me
that in the Old Testament, the prophets very often used humorous techniques—street theatre—to bring to issue very serious concerns. In
some of His parables, Jesus himself used humor. And it seems to me that the second Psalm talks about God
sitting in his heavens and laughing at the pride of humans.

“And so, with this spirit, I would like to present two awards here, since there are going to be some
awards presented on the inside. This is not to take away from the...

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Plaza Gift Shop Ltd.
Mooresville. 663-1503.ones on the inside, but simply to suggest that we have some things to celebrate outside. “For me, one
of the high points of the convocations every year is the awarding of the Gladstone Award. Out here, today, we
are going to present the Tombstone Award.

“This year, I have taken it upon myself in good Davidson fashion to be a committee of one, and I
would like to present the Tombstone Award, which is presented to that emeritus professor of Davidson College who best exemplifies
the spirit of the prophetic tradition, to Ronald Linden, the department of political science, 1977-1977. Unfortunately, Dr. Linden is not
present to accept his award.

“And now there’s also the Tombstone Award for the students, presented to the graduating senior whom Davidson College wishes to
award with a one-way ticket to Jerusalem, courtesy of EL AL airlines. The recipient this year is Marc Menchel, class
of 1977.”

Steve Peeples, a senior and another leader of the Boycott effort, offered a brief statement. “I would like to express
my sincere appreciation to all the students and faculty who supported this boycott. Someone said that our tactics are wrong
and that convocation is not the time or place to make a statement about Christian tenure. To this, I respond
that when an official policy of this institution is ethically repugnant to us, it is perfectly fitting to be here.
The ugly implications of Christian tenure transcend events here at Convocation.

“Remember the ideas and ideals that I have learned here. Nothing here’s ever been swept under the rug, nobody’s ever
tried to block out an issue, and I think that’s being exemplified here today. I am here to talk to
you today not because I am angry at Davidson College, but because I love Davidson College, and I care about
Davidson College, and Davidson College for me has been an experience that says it’s worth working for to correct something
that’s wrong, and that’s what happened to Ron Linden, and not just Ron Linden in particular.

“The idea that a non-Christian can’t come and teach—well, I’m a non-Christian, and I came here and studied, and I’ll
attest to the fact that it was four of the most satisfying years of my life, and the professors I’ve
met here, the faculty I’ve met here, the students I’ve met here—I don't think that I'll ever have an experience
which will parallel it.

“First of all, I am here at this time because I believed that, as a community, we have taken the
rigors of the law too seriously, and the freedom and the love and the Grace of the Gospel not seriously
enough.” Minister to students Rush Otey in this building, I would be embarrassed to speak of those ideals again if
I did not take a bold, visible stand today. Senior Marc Menchel, a Jewish student at Davidson, expressed the hope
that the unfortunate situation with Linden would be corrected.

“After winning an award like this, it’s hard to come out and say something that’s relevant, but I’ve been at
Davidson College for four years, and in that four years at Davidson College, I have developed a deep respect for
the student body and the way of life here. As far as I can tell, the professors I’ve met here,
the faculty I’ve met here, the students I’ve met here—I don't think that I'll ever have an experience which will
parallel it.

“And so I ask you to join all of us and correct a situation which I think is very wrong.
And if this situation is like other situations at Davidson, I know it is going to be corrected.”

Rabil thanked all those who attended. A number of students and faculty and staff members remained outside to discuss the
issue.
