December 2, 1977 The Davidsonian

IMAC Report: KA’s recapture flickerball crown

By BAD BERNARD AND HOGMAN

The week of November 14th will be remembered for two things. First, it was during this week that Huk Kim, a 4’11” junior out of South Pago Pago, Maryland, realized he had a chance to produce a record-breaking 0.00 GPA for the fall term. In attempting to duplicate the win percentage of the DC in the season’s first W.C. meet...

By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rifle Team upped its record to 6-1 on Nov. 5 with big wins over Clemson, Wake Forest, South Carolina State, Presbyterian, and Wofford. The scene was the season’s first Western Carolina Conference meet, hosted by Davidson. The Cats' only loss was to the top ten ranked team from Appalachian State. High shooter for Davidson was senior Tom Miller, posting a 266 (out of a possible 300). Sophomore John Parham was close behind with a very solid 264. Junior Katherine Whitney and sophomore Mike Pearson posted 254 and 240 respectively. Rounding out the top five was junior Tom Niblock with a 231. Other Davidson shooters were sophomores Robbie Kirkendol and Louis Williams at 229 and 214. Three freshman shooters, Reed Ellis, Mancy Cornwell, and Ruth Ann Westervelt shot 212, 204, and 196, respectively. It was a day for surprises as the Cats registered their first win over Clemson University in several years, shooting below their potential. Davidson is already well on the way toward breaking last year’s 18-8 win-loss record. The Rifle Team won its traditional season opener against N.C. A&T on October 29. The Rifle Team has been concentrating on developing...

It is just as difficult to make 3 F’s as to make 3 A’s.” A Bad Bernard-Hogman tip of the rice cap to Huk for that record-shattering performance. While records were being smashed in the classroom, heads were being smashed on the flickerball field. When the dust and smoke had cleared, the KAs had marched away with their second straight Flickerball crown. The tournament epitomized the gallant pageantry of flickerball: warm, beautiful autumn afternoon, dazzling uniforms of the KAs, luscious Queenie cheerleaders muttering incoherent cheers for their SAF heroes, piss-poor officiating, sell-out crowds, and overall incompetent management from Graeme Thompson. The SAE’s played the role of the dynamic upsetters as they gator-ed past the Bongs and the KA’s into the finals. Meanwhile, the Bongs, MacFleet, and the KA’s battled it out in the loser’s bracket for the right to meet the boys from the beach. The KAs emerged victorious and faced the almost impossible task of beating the Es twice in the finals. The KAs came out firing in the first game and walked away with a 30-13 victory. Mike Schaefer, Kenny Bell, Stuart Boswell, and Fly Williams spearheaded a tough defense that contained the explosive E offense, headed by tailback Jim Richards. A dejected...Richards reflected to Bernie the feelings of the team after the game when he said, the depth of talent that is essential to consistent success in any sport. A strong field of dedicated freshmen and sophomores assure Davidson continued success in the years to come. The team's next match will be the second Western Carolina Conference meet, this Saturday at South Carolina State at Orangeburg, S.C.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

A paper due anyway.” The stage was thus set for the final game of the season. Behind the clever mind of Stan Brown, the Es headed down to the Barn to alter their offense and defense so as to confuse the regimented KA patterns. The KAs, riding the experience of four flickerball finals in a row, remained lackadaisical in their attitude toward the game and held a brief prayer service to Robert E. Lee. Playing before a packed house (standing room only) of 34,354 on Field #1, the KAs utilized a late-in-the-game touchdown catch by Schaefer and two key interceptions by George Flowers and Stuart Boswell to take the Championship, 19-13.

Another tip of the rice cap to Bill McDade, Glenn Ballard, George Flowers, David Williams, Randy Haynes, Kenny Belf, Jimmy Ervin, Stuart Boswell, Mike Schaefer, Russ Folger, Mike Barnhill, Steve Sellers, Robert Taylor, Bruce Kemp, Ron Rosenburg, 'Hogman, Vance Christopher and Jack Davis.

‘Hell, I had a term paper due anyway.”

Shooters blast all comers for their victory. A Laurel and Hardy handshake goes to the Needle Dix for their sterling performance in the three-on-three basketball tournament. Bob “I Can Dunk” Lapple, Rob “I Was A Davidson JV Reject” Murray, and Tim “Big Red” Goodell nipped a tough SAE team composed of Adrian Wilson, Stan Brown and Chip Bondurant. The winning triplet utilized a tough four-corner offense to take the championship 21-13. The game was delayed only once when Tim Goodell was beeped to go rescue Rush Otey who had swallowed his tongue during a Tuesday night Thanksgiving service.

Don’t forget that next week marks the appearance of the first annual Bernie-Hogman Pro, College, Prep and IMAC Basketball Yearbook. This year’s edition contains all the info and predictions you want and can be purchased wherever books with brown wrappers are sold. Until then, would somebody please feed Butch? Later.

Davidson 106 Wofford 90
Davidson 106 Erskine 90

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

Did you know “Merry Christes Masse” means Merry Christmas? In medieval England, Christmas was first called “Christes Masse” which later changed to “Christ’s Mass.” The mispronouncing of this phrase led to its present spelling. No matter how it’s pronounced or spelled, Merry Christmas means sharing the holiday joy with loved ones. Share your joy with Hallmark cards and gifts.

THE VILLAGE STORE
When you care enough to send the very best
© 1977 Hallmark Cards, Inc.