April 22, 1977 © Opinion ———— 5

Labels plague political spectrum
By L.K. STELL
Faculty Guest Columnist

“Right” and “left” are common currency in political discourse. The War Protest Movement and the Black Power movement are usually given as exemplifications of “left” (or New Left) political orientation while William Buckley and Barry Goldwater are usually seen as exemplars of the “right”.

Heat or light?
Yet as Socrates was fond of pointing out, unless we have a definition for troublesome or contested concepts, producing examples generates more heat than light.

Opinion
Albert
By MARGARET HUNTER
Guest Columnist

My dear friends, do let us be honest. They asked me to write something funny; I delightedly and dazedly agreed (how often do YOU get asked to write something for the Davidsonian?) and am now thwarting their desires and any chances of my being asked to write again by sneaking in an old-fashioned bedtime story.

Albert’s introduction
Once upon a time, there was a guinea pig named Albert. He worked at a carrot salad factory all day long; about 6 o'clock in the evening every day he would show up at home wanting supper and a big bowl of nice peanut butter afterwards. Now Albert hated working at the carrot factory; he stood in front of an assembly line with carrots racing by him every minute. His job was to grab them before they went past and to throw them all into a grating-and-mixing-in-raisins machine. Any brown ones he let go by. He lived for the times in the evenings when he could just sit and eat peanut butter, watching TV.

Then one day God talked to Albert.

God’s guidance
He told him that he should talk to the owner of a peanut butter factory. The next weekend, Albert went to church and saw his daughter's best friend's father’s brother, who used to date Albert’s wife’s cousin, in line to get some good Sunday coffee. Albert got in line behind him, mentioned the weather and then how good this man’s peanut butter was. Mr. Peaby said, “Yes, but the quality of the nuts has been slipping lately.” At that very moment God hit Albert between the eyes and caused him to blurt out— “Ah then, what you need is a peanut butter taster!” And before the sermon started, Albert had a new job. He was very happy eating peanut butter all day. The peanut butter quality went up. Mr. Peaby was pleased. Albert began to grow very fat; and he learned a lot about how peanut butter is made. He thought about going into his own business making peanut butter, but decided after consulting lawyers and accountants and his wife, that the pay Mr. Peaby paid him was sufficient to make such an adventure not profitable enough to warrant the risks inherent.

Tractor influence
His wife made a trip to see her parents one weekend. She went by bus, and when she returned, of course, he was supposed to pick her up at the station. On the way, the car...

Attempting to give definitions for these terms seems doomed for three reasons. First, there is no way to produce a non-circular definition which grasps the meaning of these correlative terms. The New Columbia Encyclopedia defines “right” as “the more conservative groups in the political spectrum, in contrast to the radical left...” This stab at a definition does lead to the second difficulty though, viz., that left and right are context-relative. You and I may favor the same policy but our convergence may require a move to the left from your orientation and a move to the right from mine. Similarly, a turn to the left may be a left turn for you and a right turn for me. Unfortunately, while we possess means for defining the compass directions, we lack commonly accepted criteria for delineating the left and the right.

Contested labels
Finally, the terms left and right do not merely locate persons or things relative to objects or continua whose positions are known, they are also appellations of approval and disapproval. In political debate, each person has an incentive to rig things so that the orientation he comes out to have relative to his opponent is advantageous to him. Depending on the context of debate, labeling someone “right” or “left” (or center?) is tantamount to placing him among the good guys or the bad guys. Small wonder that these labels themselves are essentially contested.

Left versus right
Our Western Civilization course notes tell us that “left” and “right” first acquired application in the political realm because of the seating arrangements in the French National Assembly subsequent to the revolution of 1789, although legend has it the more ancient practice of having the Nobility seated at the King’s right while representatives of the Third Estate took their seats at his left. However that may be, being a member of the left quickly came to mean that one was a kindred spirit to the revolution of 1789. Pinning down that spirit is as much like pursuing phantoms now as it was then. In the nearly 200 years that have intervened, the terms left and right have been subjected to so many political uses that one must despair at isolating any “core” meaning.broke down. He went inside the nearest building, which turned out to be a rather plush hotel (and he was in his overalls!), called the station, and found out there was a tornado watch, and her bus had been delayed 5 hours. He took the car to a gas station, found out it was going to cost him $150 to have it fixed within 5 hours, and it began to rain. He was not happy. He went back to the hotel because he was bored at the gas station. He went back to the hotel because there was nothing to do at the gas station. He noticed there was a convention of “The Tractors for the World Association” (TTFTWA) and he went in. He needed something to do! He sat down and heard a boring speaker talking about getting money from churches and sending tractors to the world. He also heard, just before he impolitely dozed off, that peanut butter oil is the main lubricant for tractors.

Three years later, Albert was sitting in bed (or lying? He was so fat it was hard to tell) and he remembered that day. Boing!!!! It suddenly hit him that lubricants must be very fine quality or engines wear out, and that he knew a lot about peanut butter oil. He called the hotel and found out when the next TTFTWA convention was. He took a day off from work to go, and dressed in his guinea pig finest. He asked them if they needed someone to ensure that quality peanut butter oil was sent overseas, and handed them a resume which listed his education at the bottom, his peanut butter knowledge at the top. They, after two weeks of conferring among themselves, said yes.

Consider the following applications:
1. Conservative-Progressive
The right is the party of tradition, emphasizing the primacy of family and clan loyalties, in general resistive to change. The left is the party of progress, change, perhaps radical change.
2. Archism-Anarchism
The right is the statist party favoring policies which increasingly subject all “social” actions to authoritative control. The left is the party favoring less and less government, perhaps no government at all.
3. Individualism-Collectivism
The party of the right holds that individuals have sovereign rights which must be protected from collective invasions, it asserts the primacy of individual welfare and that government’s sole function is the protection of individual rights. The left asserts the primacy of group rights, communal concern, solidarity of the oppressed, social welfare, and a government active to secure these things.
4. Capitalist-Socialist
The right is the party of private enterprise, the profit motive, free markets, the middle class. The left is the party of state ownership, economic planning, regulated markets, the working class.
5. Meritarian-Egalitarian
The right favors rewards proportional to accomplishments, the virtues of competition, excellence. The left promotes equality of income, the ideal of cooperation, anti-elitism.
6. Authoritarian-Democrat
The right is the party skeptical of popular wisdom, favoring established authority; an appreciation of men of quality. The left favors popular sovereignty, believes in the wisdom of the common man, is suspicious of bureaucracism.

So which way is right? Is a political party which favors dismantling the federal government, the abolition of taxes and yet advocates capitalism and free trade a party of the left or of the right? (Left under #2, right under #4). How should we classify a person who advocates the primacy of clan loyalties and blood ties? (Right under #1, left under #3). Does it matter if he advocates Black Power and Black Consciousness? Consider a stable socialist dictatorship. Are its dissidents who press for individual rights, the increased use of material incentives in production and popular sovereignty representatives of the right (#3, and #4) or of the left (#6)?

The end of this story is that Albert landed a very comfortable income, he and his wife travel all over the world now checking tractor oil quality, and they are very happy. The Kiwanis gave Albert a service award for being “instrumental” in an overseas service project two years ago. Albert has slimmed down since his peanut butter testing days, and is a better lover than when he was working in the carrot factory 10 hours a day. A moral — This is a true story: The names have been changed to protect the innocent. Its moral (no, you can’t escape it!) is this: think about what you want to do, who you are, what you are good at, what you value. Then pick your own spot in the sun.

Is there any way of deriving weighted averages so we could judge persons to be left or right “on balance”? The difficulties in this suggestion are obvious for the relation between a person's position on anarchism-archism and progressivism-conservatism is not like the relation between the length and width of a physical object. Length times width yields the area, but one’s position on anarchism plus (or times?) one’s position on conservatism yields nothing similar. The latter are incommensurable so judgments about whether one is “on balance” left or right are absurd.

The more interesting question concerns whether some combinations of left positions and right positions form a coherent or incoherent political outlook. This moves us to the logic of political philosophy.