April 22, 1977

The Davidsonian

Cats Slug Double-Win Against VMI

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

The Wildcat Baseball team travelled to Lexington, Va. this past weekend to play VMI in a Southern Conference double header.

The Cats previously had fared only 2-6 in Conference games and therefore wanted to get two wins from VMI. And indeed, they came home with two wins.

The first game was a “slugfest” for the Cats, who soundly downed the Keydets 12-1. The powerful hitting was led by Stan Brown, Pete Legler, and Rick Blinkhorn. These three “sluggers” each had three hits. Brown and Legler each had two doubles.

Freshman catcher Bob Lapple also ripped a two-run homer for the Cats. Altogether, the Cats pounded out seventeen hits against the Keydet pitchers in the first game.

In the second game, the Cats jumped out to an early lead and it appeared that the VMI team was in for another sound beating.

Pete Legler again led the team with three hits. Senior Jim Nichols and Bob Lapple both had two hits and Bruce Bolinger ripped a homerun as well.

This gave the Cats a 10-3 lead over VMI. However, the VMI team fought back from 10-3 to tie the Cats in the sixth inning at 10-10.

For seven more innings the game was a stand-off, with neither team being able to score. Then, in the top of the thirteenth inning, Stan Brown ripped a double with Pete Legler on second base to score the winning run.

Freshman Bruce Bolinger’s homerun was his seventh for the year and the twenty-fifth for the team. This breaks the past Cat team homerun record, set in 1975.

Behind Bolinger, Tim McDowell and Bob Lapple each have four homeruns. Stan Brown and Tim Goodell each have three homeruns, while Dave Patton has two. Sid Osborne and Pete Legler have each hit one homerun. This impressive record shows that the Cats have eight starters who are capable of hitting homeruns.

The pitching for the Cats this weekend was done by Tim Barr and Alan Alig. Barr pitched all seven innings of the first game and then pitched the first five innings of the next game.

Alig then pitched the final eight innings of the thirteen-inning second game.

Earlier this week, Barr broke the strikeout record for all Wildcat pitchers. The record was set in 1971 with 72 strikeouts. Barr at present has struck out 89 opposing batters and the Cats still have eight games to play.

One other record that was broken this week is that of stolen bases. Stan Brown broke the record he set last year with nine stolen bases. He has ten at present and since the Cats have eight games left he’ll have a chance to improve on that record.

Coach Muench has claimed all season that the talent on this Cat team is abundant. As these records are broken, this fact is made evident.

Muench says that he hopes most that the vital record of win-losses will also be improved for the 11-21 Cats. With these eight games left to play, the “hot” Cats certainly have a chance to do just that.

Lacrosse Team Improves Despite Disappointments

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, the Davidson Lacrosse team lost a heartbreaking game to Elon 13-12.

With 45 seconds left in the game, Bill Mebane scored his 5th goal of the game to tie the game up at 12-all then with just 12 seconds remaining, Elon scored what proved to be the game winner.

Mebane said he was pleased with the game, since “we finally have proved that we can play respectable lacrosse. Teams are going to have to work to beat us now.”

He pointed out that only six or seven players on the team had any real game experience, but enthusiasm and a willingness to work is really helping this team to improve quickly.

Mebane also felt that the team’s main weakness is that they lack proper strategy and coaching.

But Mebane pointed out that despite being on its own the whole season, the team has done well for being so inexperienced. Marked improvements in individual players is helping to spur the team on.

“We're starting to move the ball around a lot better now. We're even starting to score a lot of goals.”

Attackman Alex Evans was also pleased with the team’s efforts but felt “it was very disappointing to lose such a tough game, especially after we had come so close against Clemson (12-9).”

Super Guard Dodds Joins Wildcat Cagers

By HARRY GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

Head coach Dave Pritchett has signed his fourth recruit of the year, Chris Dodds, a 6’1” point guard from State College, Pennsylvania.

Dodds, who was named first team all-state by United Press International, has a deadly shooting touch in addition to excellent ball-handling ability.

Assistant Coach Billy Hahn remarked, “We’ve seen a lot of kids this year and he’s by far the best point guard we’ve run across.”

Dodds had a very impressive high school career. At State College High he averaged 28.7 points and 11 assists per game while leading the team to a 23-5 record.

As a junior he led the state in scoring with 33 points per contest.

Pritchett asserts, “his leadership, creativity, scoring ability, overall basketball knowledge certainly gave him the opportunity to be the finest point guard ever to wear a Davidson uniform.”

Chris was our first choice and was pivotal in recruiting in order to lead Davidson back to national prominence.” Dodds had narrowed his college choices to Pittsburgh, Clemson, Duke and Wake Forest before selecting Davidson.

A SALUTE To 75 YEARS COCA-COLA IN THE CAROLINAS

WIN A FREE CASE 24 COMMEMORATIVE REPLICA BOTTLES 10 SECOND PRIZES

OPEN TO STAFF OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

BRING THIS AD TO THE STUDENT STORE

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

M.A. WICKER President and Treasurer

BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary