March 25, 1977

The Davidsonian

3

Big Screen enriches social scene

By MARIELLEN SAWADA
Staff Writer

With the purchase of the Advent 1000A “big screen” television set, the Student Union has added a new dimension to its activities.

The VideoBeam color television set, valued at $4,000, was bought by the Union for $3,500.

Bob Hill, Union Board Publicity Committee Chairperson, believes the VideoBeam set will have a considerable impact.

“It can change the flavor of the Union. There’s far too much studying in the Union. The library is the place for study. The Union should serve as a place for people to come and meet,” Hill added.

Hill told of the Union’s decision to purchase the big screen. “Two or three years ago, the College invited the Advent people up. There was a great deal of interest in buying the ‘big screen.’”

At that time, the price was $2,000. The senior class of that year donated approximately half of the cost. The other half was to come from the Student Union. But because the “big screen” was underpriced in the first place, the cost kept rising.

“Each time the price was matched by the Union,” said Hill, “the price would go up.”

This fall a fact-finding committee was appointed to reexamine the feasibility of purchasing the screen. That committee also explored the possibility of buying the screen at a discount. The committee proposed the big screen be purchased with the excess funds from a number of Union Board committees. That recommendation was approved.

Davidsonian advertising manager Kevin Shelly agreed to grant Audio Systems of Charlotte (retailer of the screen) a $500 advertising consideration, and the firm sold the VideoBeam set to the Union for the $3,500 discount price.

Hill is excited by the prospective uses of the big screen. He has been visiting the department heads to interest them in using the screen as a teaching aid.

Television’s “big events” will be another area of special programming. The NCAA quarterfinals and “The Wizard of Oz” were “very successful,” he said.

Young seeks amendment to College Constitution

By MEREDITH DEAN
Staff Writer

SGA President Thom Young is pushing for an amendment to the Davidson College Constitution which would add the President of the Patterson Court Council as an ex officio member of the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life.

Young points out that the Advisory Council is a powerful decision-making body which affects almost all aspects of Davidson life and therefore it is vital that Patterson Court be represented.

“Since over half of the student body is affected by Patterson Court and most of Davidson’s social life revolves around the Court, I feel that the President of this organization should be on the Advisory Council.”

In the recent controversy over Rusk House, Patterson Court did not have a vote in the Advisory Council’s final decision even though the matter directly affected the Court.

In order to accomplish Young’s objectives the student body must first vote to support his proposals.

On April 5 a referendum will be presented to the student body in order to determine whether or not the students favor the addition of the President of Patterson Court to the Advisory Council.

If the referendum is passed by a two-thirds majority of the students voting it will then be passed on to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees where it will await a final decision in September of next year.

At the present time the student members of the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life consist of six members elected by the Senate and two members elected by the student body at large.

college chooses academic head

[Continued from page 1]

wish him this richly deserved advancement with every possible support.”

As well as his academic achievements Zimmerman is an international class alpine climber. He is chairman of the conservation committee of the American Alpine Club. He has served on the Executive Committee of the Pacific Northwest Chapter of the Sierra Club.

A Davidson faculty member who knows Zimmerman well says, “Price is apparently attracted to academic administration not for any desire for prestige, but in order to safeguard what is valuable in the liberal arts tradition, and to find ways to make undergraduate teaching more effective.

“In addition, I believe that Price’s personality, scholarly background and interests, and low key but resolute manner would quickly win him the confidence of the faculty and help make him one of the most successful academic deans we have had.”

Spence concludes, “we are very fortunate and pleased that he will join us.”

Young’s objectives the student body must first vote to support his proposals.

On April 5 a referendum will be presented to the student body in order to determine whether or not the students favor the addition of the President of Patterson Court to the Advisory Council.

If the referendum is passed by a two-thirds majority of the students voting it will then be passed on to the Secretary of the Board of Trustees where it will await a final decision in September of next year.

At the present time the student members of the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life consist of six members elected by the Senate and two members elected by the student body at large.

Plaga Gift Shop

Your Gift Headquarters

“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm
Monday—Saturday

Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville ° 663-1503

Other educational and entertainment sources will be the Educational programming of Channel 42 and special video tapes.

A committee is being formed to plan the programming of the big screen. Student suggestions are requested.

REMINDER FROM SGA:
elections next Tuesday

Exercise your rights

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

CHILDREN BY CHOICE

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841