February 11, 1977 The Davidsonian

Takes a year abroad to change your life. Learn from one year’s experiences. “It’s really different being an international student
over there than over here. In Marburg, we lived in University-operated student apartment buildings. The housing guarantees contact with German
students. I was able to go into some homes through my contacts on my hall and traveled quite a lot
with my German friends.”

Bob Bennett ’77 echoed Tony’s sentiments, “I had some romantic ideas about seeing the world and I was interested in
going to Germany after having had three years of the language. I wanted a different experience—I had been thinking about
going for nearly four years.” Bob also mentioned the excellent living arrangements and added these comments about the city of
Marburg: “The city is a big plus—it’s gorgeous and full of history. It’s also in a central position in the
country which makes travel easy. There were also lots of cultural offerings in Marburg and in nearby cities.”

“Davidson students are generally well thought of in Marburg,” continued Tony. “Also the professors seem to understand that you are
there not only to study a specific subject but to learn to understand the whole cultural system.” Bob added, “You
take courses on an equal basis with German students. Actually, the course selection is quite wide because after all it
is a university system. You can take anything your German can handle.”

Montpellier, France

“I went to France for the wine, women, and sun,” said Dick Hay ’77. “And because I wanted to get
away from Davidson.” “I went because I knew it would be a unique experience and I wanted to live in
Europe rather than see it as a tourist,” said Steve Godar ’77. “I went to learn more and perfect my
French. I always heard that it was a really great experience,” commented Bob Currie ’77. He continued, “It is a
real challenge to leave home for a year and live and travel in a different culture. This way you get
a close-up view.”

Commenting on typical American tourists they saw in Europe, Dave remarked, “I can see why Europeans hate Americans. The ones
we saw embarrassed us. They acted so ignorant and disrespectful of European culture.” Linda added, “We all were determined not
to appear like tourists. We didn’t and the people opened up to us almost immediately. They’re great young people.”

Linda summarized by praising the foreign studies program. “The main lesson I learned on this trip was that nothing expands
a person more than exposure to different cultures and values. And I applaud anything Davidson does to promote this exposure!”

IF YOU want a change from DCPC...

Students compare differences in competition, individualism, and courses required for the year. “We don’t have to suffer from the pressures
of competition,” observed Jasjit Bhattal of India. The students generally expressed few complaints, although the high tuition came up, as
well as the dorms. Pont remarked, “I don’t like the dorms. For such an expensive college, the dorms should be
very nice.”

Adjustment problems were of relatively minor concern, as all of the exchange students who were interviewed praised the natives for
their helpfulness. Bhattal and Castelein said they had an advantage in meeting people through sports and fraternities: Bhattal through squash
and Castelein through tennis and Fiji’s. Castelein explained, “I live down in the basement (Belk) where there are a lot
of Fiji’s, and they took me out to the Fiji house right away. I got to know so many people
in the first few weeks. That was the frightening thing about coming here, not knowing anybody. But it wasn’t just
the Fiji’s, it was all the people in general.”

Bhattal commented, “No international student is at a disadvantage, unless they have a language problem. I didn’t have one.” Nishimura,
however, says he did have a big problem learning our language. “Language education in Japan is very poor. There is
no conversation class. There are very few language labs. In English classes (in Japan), the teacher stresses mainly grammar. This
is not suitable for ordinary life.”

In comparing the U.S. with her native land, one of the things which struck Pont was the...International news coverage: "I
feel that the news about the world is very poor on the radio and the Charlotte Observer, and more or
less, all over the U.S.," mused Bhattal on the differences between India and the U.S. "One thing I feel strongly
about is that most Americans don’t know how lucky they are. They don’t make full use of their facilities. They're
also very individualistic here; there’s not much emphasis on cooperation. It’s every man for himself."

"Look at a culture—you don’t get the same perspective when you just travel," Steve added. "It offers something that Davidson
can’t about finding out about yourself through experience—things you just can’t learn from a book."

Both Bob and Steve lived in apartments in the town of Montpellier. Dick lived in the country near the town.
All three agreed that the biggest adjustment was getting used to the language. Steve said, "You learn the hard way
in a lot of backward situations to deal with the culture and interactions with people."

"The evaluation system for academics is different. Your credit is transferred here as pass/fail. The workload is relatively light, but
after all, it is in French," said Bob. "You don’t have to keep your nose in a book like you
do here sometimes," added Steve. "It’s more relaxed, but there are more other things to cope with."

Norwich, England

"I went to England because I wanted to travel and I wanted to experience a different university system. I didn’t
particularly want to escape from Davidson. I guess I’m sort of a reluctant adventurer," observed Sue Cunningham ’77. Sue spent
two terms last year studying at the University of East Anglia in Norwich, England. "I felt like a freshman again.
But after three or four days it wasn't bad. It’s a much bigger place—you can’t expect to get to know
everybody."

"I felt really comfortable in the classroom," she continued. "I think that the biggest adjustments that I had to make
were social adjustments. I had to get out and go places to make friends. Social life over there is more
laid back."

Sue lived in a dorm complex. "My roommate for one term was from Finland. There was a central kitchen that
everyone on the hall used, so it was really nice to cook and eat right there and talk to the
other people on the hall."

"Academically, the university is very good. All my classes were seminars; there were no survey courses," she said.

JYA in retrospect

Students from all the programs were highly enthusiastic. Tony observed, "If you plan from the beginning, a JYA experience can
only enhance a grad school application." Steve added, "It is not impossible for science majors—they should keep the option open.
It’s just a tremendous experience for anyone!"

Both the students that were in France and Germany felt that the Davidson program was well-organized. The presence of a
Resident Advisor in both situations was, according to the students, very helpful in getting through red tape and other matters
of adjustment.

Another observation made by students in all three countries concerned the students they were associated with. "Students at East Anglia
(England) were much more politically aware. They have a more keen sense of what is really going on in the
rest of the world," said Sue. Bob (Currie) observed, "There was much more social unrest. There were always strikes going
on. The unions are really strong and active over there. Students are much more politicized, too. People were always handing
out pamphlets and having rallies about things. The political spectrum is much wider." Tony added, "It really improves your own
political awareness. There is no apathy like there is here."

Coming back to Davidson is the one thing that seems a little hard for some students. "You have to expect
Davidson to be different. You have changed a lot in your year away and your friends here have changed," said
Tony. "Coming back was kind of like hitting a brick wall," said Dick. "I was really inspired to be more
candid and open, but the atmosphere here just isn’t the same."

"I get frustrated with the homogeneous mentality here, but you are forewarned that senior year will be a bad year,"
said Steve. "The biggest problem I had was coming back into the English language," laughed Bob (Bennett). "I kept throwing
in German words so much that my mother couldn’t understand me!"

Davidson College also offers spring terms in France and Greece. For further information, contact Dr. Ligo and Dr. Labban.
