September 16, 1977

The Davidsonian

—

THE WILDCATS kick off the soccer season Friday with a home game against Madison.
[Hunter Jennings]

Undefeated so far

Wildcats hold off Fordham

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, the Davidson Wildcat Football team won their first opening game since 1970, beating the Fordham Rams 20-17.

The game was dominated by the Davidson offense, which rushed for over 300 yards. The attack was led by halfback Pete Legler, who ran for a game-high 139 yards. Fullback Page Walley and halfback Craig Pyles also played well, finishing up with 81 and 54 yards, respectively.

When asked about the success of the offense, Pyles praised “the offensive line for the great game they played. They opened holes for us all day. I hope we can execute as well this Saturday.”

Davidson also balanced their attack by utilizing a fine passing game. QB Bob McCarthy was able to find many seams in the Fordham secondary. Two long receptions were hauled in by Joel Golmont and Alvin Atkinson.

One disappointing factor in the game was that the Wildcats allowed Fordham to get right back into the game when they seemingly had a victory sewn up.

Safety Landis Wade felt the problem was allowing the big play. “We’d hold them for 2 downs and then allow them to pick up a big play on third down. I guess it was because of first game jitters.”

Perhaps the main factor in allowing Fordham to cut the lead was the large number of penalty yards amassed against Davidson. Many of these came at crucial junctures in the game, when the Wildcats were threatening to put the game away.

Page Walley pointed out that the “practice sessions this week have been really intense. We have been really concentrating on the mental aspects, in order to cut down on mistakes. We hope to be ready for any situation.” Wade acknowledged this, adding “I think you’ll see a big improvement in this Saturday’s game against Washington and Lee.” Kickoff time is at 2 pm.

Freshmen shatter cake race records

By HARRY GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

John Davis and Nancy Wright set new records in their respective divisions in the annual running of the Freshman Cake Race last week.

Davis, of 1st Watts, burned up the course in 8:25, trimming 8 seconds off of the old record set by Doug Horn, ’79.

Wright, of 3rd Cannon, finished in 11:21, taking a whole 22 seconds off of Paula Kadison’s record time of 11:43 set in 1975. Nancy commented, “Since the high school track season ended last year, I haven’t competed much at all. It was great to get back into competition.”

Remarkably, this year’s winners came from the same high schools as the past record holders: Davis and Horn from Charlottesville High School, Va.; Wright and Kadison from Leon High School in Tallahassee, Fla.

1st Watts dominated the race by taking the top three spots, and grabbing six cakes in all.

Following Davis were Bart Landess, also from Charlottesville High, and Greg Burnard, one of the top prep distance runners in Virginia last year. This trio will run Cross-Country for Davidson.

Horn, a hall counselor on 1st Watts, said, “These three were recruited by Davidson and could be the best talent the cross-country team has had in many years. The future of the Davidson cross-country program is centered in 1st Watts.”

Davis humbly asserted, “I don’t think I won because of previous training (which was minimal), but because of the superb mental preparation from Doug Horn and Russ Folger, my hall counselors, and of course, the thought of a gaudy, three-layered orange-coconut cake.”

Folger added, “It wasn’t easy for us getting up at 4:30 every morning and training, but it sure paid off when we got all those cakes.”

Increase your options from the beginning with Army ROTC

As a freshman in college, you are looking ahead to a good first year. Your ultimate goal is getting that college degree.

To make that degree more meaningful, you should increase your options from the beginning. You can do that through Army ROTC.

Army ROTC offers practical leadership with on-hand adventure training. You'll get management experience, which aids in developing men and women to shoulder greater responsibilities at an earlier age than most other graduates.

You can be part of this exciting curriculum in the first two years. And there’s no obligation. You’ll earn $100 a month for 10 months each of the last two years in Army ROTC.

Upon graduation, you’ll be wearing the gold bars of an Army officer. With the kind of experience you get in Army ROTC, you're qualified for any career, whether it’s military or civilian. Army ROTC provides for active duty status with a starting salary of over $11,300 or reserve status (Active Duty for Training) while employed in the civilian community.

Get a good start your freshman year. Increase your options from the beginning with Army ROTC.

Learn what it takes to lead.

Campus Clothes

Comfortable

Drop in and browse

Use Your Master Charge, Bankamericard, or Use Your Automatic Charge Account at

John P. K. & Son

Only 6 miles North - Mooresville