September 23, 1977

The Davidsonian

SGA PRESIDENT Thom Young consults with Senator Ralph Yielding on course evaluation [Laura Moses]

Young outlines Senate activities

By KEVIN WHITE
Staff Writer

The SGA, looking back to past successes, has planned a busy fall term in the continuation of many programs with the hope of new input and innovation, according to SGA President Thom Young. Its first activity is coordinating the election of freshmen class and dorm senators on next Tuesday, September 27. In the past, this election process was long, drawn-out, and confusing. This newly reformed election process marks the first time that elections for both class and dorm senatorial offices will occur on the same day.

Bolstered by the success of the helpful course evaluation handbook, the Course Evaluation Committee will continue their efforts with a major emphasis on student input. “The problem is whether or not these student-run course evaluations should be used as an evaluation of the faculty,” commented Young. “Dr. Zimmerman (Vice President for Academic Affairs) and I agree on the need for student input into the important matter of faculty evaluation. Dr. Zimmerman is at work on this now.”

Campus Security is another SGA concern for this fall. The Campus Security Committee, headed by Hans Watford '79, was responsible for the installation of emergency phones in all dorms last year. There will also be a major emphasis on improving student-faculty relations this year. Square dances and sing-alongs will continue. An SGA reception for the new faculty, doctors, associate dean, and academic plans.

Stuart duo gear for Davidson years

[Continued from page 1]

Both men were very pleased to see a new scholarship program based solely on merit established at Davidson. “I think it’s always nice that you have at least one program that’s not devoted strictly to need,” said Waddill. “It gives you a chance to be sort of independent of your parents.” Craven echoed these sentiments. “I think too many scholarships are given to people because of financial need. Financial need is something relating more to the parents than to the student. I like the idea of a strictly merit scholarship; if you’re going to have a merit scholarship it should be based on merit and not financial need.”

Waddill has a wide range of outdoor interests including track and cross country, outing club activities, and water-skiing. He expressed delight with the many activities Davidson offers. “You can stay busy all the time and not go to a single class and not do any studying just with the extracurricular activities.”

Craven's interests are also far-flung, ranging from swimming to religious groups to music. “There are a lot of things going on here if you have the time to do them — and sometimes if you don’t have the time to do them,” he grinned.

Both students were delighted with the friendly attitude of the Davidson community. “It’s an atmosphere that would facilitate learning and the social aspects of life,” explained Craven. “One in which a student can contribute a lot to the community.” Craven did not feel that the frequent complaint about Davidson's lack of diversity was justified. “Diversity is really where you find it. It’s out there but perhaps it’s a little harder to find here than at other schools.” Waddill put it another way. “To me there’s been a lot of diversity but maybe that’s because I’m just overwhelmed by the newness of it all. A small school like Davidson is not going to be as diverse.”

Davidson's faculty scored high marks with these Stuart Scholars. “The faculty seems to take a more human interest in you,” said Craven. “They all seem very friendly and willing to help you,” added Waddill. To these athletically-minded freshmen, Davidson’s intramural program was a big drawing card. “The intramural program I think is fantastic. I have a lot of praise for it because it’s for everybody. It’s a good way to get involved in athletics,” said Craven. Waddill also was impressed with the amount of participation in intramurals but felt that the gym was somewhat overcrowded.

Craven was pleased that Davidson is now coeducational. Waddill agrees but thinks “it would be nicer if they would even up the ratio.”Vice-president is also being planned for early this term. In addition, various ad hoc committees will be formed as issues arise. A current ad hoc committee is analyzing Davidson’s admissions policy with a specific interest in increasing the ratio of women to men. Plans are set. But as Young concluded, “The potential from student input is unlimited. I encourage all students to take advantage of the SGA. We need to know their interests and ideas.”

Foreign study broadens, enlightens
By PAM CAMERRA Assistant News Editor and EMILY PARTIN Staff Writer

For people who have been through a year at Davidson and are unsure of where they are going, or are looking for an alternative to Davidson College, Junior Year Abroad (JYA) can be a broadening and enlightening experience. There is not a better time in your life to go. You are never as free, you can never go as economically, and it is easier to meet people because students have a universal appeal,” said Tony Boon, Coordinator of International Studies. Davidson offers JYA programs to enable students to study at French, German, and English universities.

JYA in Montpellier
Students electing to spend a year in France study at the Université de Montpellier. As full-time students, they participate in the academic, social, and cultural life of the school. To ease the transition from an American to a French way of life, JYA students to France take a course at Davidson designed to acquaint them with France. This course, offered to these students during the spring of their sophomore year, deals with the culture, customs, and lifestyle of the French people. This is followed up with six weeks of intensive language study when the students arrive in Montpellier in September.

Beth Anderson was one of the sixteen Davidson students who went JYA to Montpellier last year. She went because although she enjoys Davidson, she felt she needed a change.

Develop independence
Anderson learned that while spending a year in another country it is not hard to develop self-reliance and independence. Anderson said that although the French students she met were friendly, she was the one who had to make the first move to be friends. Early in the year, Anderson had to fight feelings of loneliness, but before long she had formed close friendships with several French students. She also took advantage of the opportunity to meet students of other nationalities.

Anderson found the language barrier somewhat of a problem at first. She described her occasional inability to express herself as “a humbling experience.” However, as the year progressed, Anderson became increasingly able to communicate effectively in French. Anderson, a sociology major, took a variety of courses at the university. Among the subjects she studied were sociology, English literature, computer math, religion, and French literature.

[see JYA, page 7]

White shares ideas
[Continued from page 1]

...offered only to Christian applicants. This scholarship involves more money than any other award at Davidson but, as White points out, “it is not a Davidson College scholarship.” The award comes from outside sources who may therefore restrict it in any way they wish. White compared the Stuart Scholarships to the National Achievement Scholarships sponsored by the National Merit program which is restricted to Black students.

White does not feel that limiting the scholarship to Christian applicants influences to any great extent those students considering the college. On the other hand, White contends that Davidson's Statement of Purpose, which presents the College as a church-affiliated school, may influence some students in their decision as to whether or not to apply. He believes that having the applicant comment upon the Statement of Purpose forces him or her to take a look at this aspect of the College. “We want to present Davidson as it really is and then let the high school student decide for himself whether he feels he and Davidson are compatible.”

As far as the future is concerned, White is hoping for even more applications than last year’s high of 1500. From all indications so far, he will not be disappointed. The number of interviews in August alone was double that of last year. White’s last comment on attracting applicants—“of course, winning football games won’t hurt.”