February 11, 1977 Review

Network sends movie

By PAT COVINGTON
Staff Writer

The so-called "Golden Age" of television drama produced many artists who went on to success in other media. Among them were writer Paddy Chayefsky and director Sidney Lumet. Of the two, Chayefsky is probably more directly indebted to TV: his 1953 teleplay "Marty" was one of the most successful dramas of the decade. He crafted it into a 1955 movie which won him an Academy Award. Lumet, who had directed in the TV action series "Danger," also broke into film via a transplanted television drama, Reginald Rose’s "Twelve Angry Men."

Now, twenty years later, writer Chayefsky and director Lumet have concocted "Network," a wild-eyed satire of the medium which was largely responsible for their success. There’s nothing subtle going on here: Chayefsky is shooting at the broad side of the barn; therefore, he often hits the target. Yet it’s equally true that you don’t feel he’s accomplished much.

From the beginning we’re in an absurdist, at times surrealistic, world. Howard Beale (played by the late Peter Finch), evening-news anchorman of UBS, a fictional fourth network, is being fired and replaced by a younger colleague. One night, Howard calmly announces on the air that the next night he will commit suicide on the show. There is, of course, an immediate outrage, but news director Max Schumacher (William Holden) manages to get the higher-ups to let Howard appear the next night, apologize, and make a graceful exit. Howard, who is cracking up, does appear the next night, does not apologize, and launches into a jeremiad against American society in general, the theme of which is, “Bullshit is all the reason we give for living.” Again executives are outraged, until they see the publicity and ratings jump associated with Howard’s outburst.

The tack the story then takes is obvious: Howard is kept on, things are put under the direction of a predatory programming director named Diana Christianson (Faye Dunaway), and the UBS evening news is turned into a variety hour with a number of wigged-out acts, hosted by an anchorman-gone-crackers.

All this is fairly entertaining, and intermittently inspired satire, but Chayefsky overloads the circuits. His target is not only television, but the people who watch it (there are large studio audiences in the film who applaud the "Howard Beale Show"). Big business is shot at, too, through the actions of the conglomerate that owns UBS. The characters are little more than megaphones through which Chayefsky projects various good and bad ideas. This is, to a certain extent, to be expected with satire, but Chayefsky seems to overestimate the effect of his characters. There is too much in the screenplay that is condescending and glib.

There is, for example, the presence of an "Ecumenical Liberation Army" who has kidnapped an heiress; this facile, and often tasteless, topicality is an example of the pitfalls in Chayefsky’s script. There is too much superficiality in this film to make it profound; and the cynicism is too pervasive for it to have any mirth. True, you laugh; but it’s a rather nasty laugh directed at the present "television generation" Chayefsky shrilly indicts. This group is represented in the film by the Dunaway character, whom Max Schumacher denounces as "indifferent, suffering, insensitive to joy."

Despite these problems, the film does have an energy, a fascination, that is embodied in Finch’s Howard Beale, the tool (and eventually, the victim) of Chayefsky’s network behemoth. Howard fascinates us much the...same way Joel Grey’s “Emcee” did in “Cabaret”: he is a self-contained, enigmatic prophet separated from us by the other characters in the film. Far too often we see him filtered through a TV monitor; when our view of him is direct, the film takes on its only real excitement. It’s a shame that Finch could not have ended an excellent career with a better role, but he does create an intriguing character out of what he’s got. The film in its middle stages gets sidetracked from Beale and his situation; had Chayefsky paid closer attention to this, his best character, the film would probably have been better for it. Like Finch, all the rest of the performers do the best they can with the material. With the exception of Holden as the virtuous Max, and Dunaway as the icy Diana, the performers overact, which is the only way they can help us, the audience, take the “truth”-laden dialogue. It’s hard to know what to say about Sidney Lumet’s direction. That few American filmmakers are his equal is not evident from this film. Yet one often gets the feeling that he has a better idea of what’s going on than Chayefsky, who wrote the thing. Lumet’s direction is impersonal and stylized, and somewhat softens the grating effect of Chayefsky’s attempts to convince us that this absurd world is the real one. In the end, it could be charged by unfriendly critics that there’s a basic hypocrisy underlying “Network”; Chayefsky and Lumet, having both worked extensively on film, should realize that television isn’t the only medium prone to exploitation. But perhaps overzealousness would be closer to the true problem. In the film, Diana Christianson posits that Howard Beale’s popularity is because he is “articulating the rage” of the American people. Like Diana and Howard, Chayefsky should remember that articulation isn’t easy when you're shouting.

The Fall

The Davidson College Drama Workshop presents two one-act plays from the Medieval York Mystery Cycle directed by Hal McCoy, Tuesday, Feb. 15, 4:30 in Lingle Chapel.

Pop Film Preview

Antonioni suffuses screen with ambiguity

By PAT COVINGTON
Staff Writer

“The Passenger”, this week’s Pop Film, is a suspense melodrama about an alienated TV-news journalist who exchanges identities with a dead man who looks exactly like him. Not knowing exactly what he is getting into, the journalist picks up clues as he goes along (through Africa, Germany, England, and Spain), and eventually discovers that the man whose name he has taken is a political gunrunner who is involved with leftist guerillas in Africa. Obviously, the plot thickens from there. If the film sounds like an unconventional “suspense melodrama”, it is partly because it was co-scripted and directed by an unconventional filmmaker—Michelangelo Antonioni. With Antonioni directing you may be sure that the film is more than the sum of its events. Since “Blow-Up” had introduced him to the English-speaking world in 1966, Antonioni had become almost synonymous with cinematic ambiguity. “The Passenger”, released in the summer of 1975, was his first feature since “Zabriskie Point” five years earlier and was hailed by critics as a major step forward in his career. The film stars Jack Nicholson and Maria Schneider, and is rated PG. It is scheduled to be shown Friday night.

Jack Nicholson and Maria Schneider in “The Passenger”

“Sure to become one of the key films of the ’70s.”
—Kevin Thomas, Los Angeles Times