Foe

A ROPE'S a useful thing to have for climbing a cliff.

how it’s done.

Brian

Outing Club advocates wilderness experience

By HINER HAMRICK
Staff Writer

Interested in wilderness activities? Then get in touch with the Outing Club. Co-presidents of the Outing Club, Steve Coffey and Brian Jacobs, agreed that the purpose of the club is to introduce people to aspects of the outdoors which they may never otherwise encounter.

They stressed that it helps get people with similar interests together as it helps beginners learn while it provides a vehicle for the experienced outdoorsman.

The club was originally organized by Davidson students and faculty who wished to gain closer contact by experiencing outdoor activities such as backpacking, mountaineering, and whitewater canoeing.

Both feel that “being with a professor in a non-pressure situation would be profitable for both professor and student."

According to Outing Club Equipment Managers Albert Connette and Steve Fritts, the club has an extensive inventory of outdoor gear as well as a modest budget for the purchase of new equipment. The club owns such varied equipment as backpacks, fuel containers, inflatable kayaks, maps, books, and mountaineering gear for accomplished climbers.

A $2.00 membership fee covers the first five rentals and subsequent $2.00 fees renew the membership. “We have had a little trouble with people failing to check in equipment used over the summer,” noted Connette.

Members of the Outing Club feel that more outdoor activities will help to stimulate an interest in the National Parks and Wilderness areas. A possible future activity under investigation by the club in conjunction with the Office for Experiential Learning is an outing orientation program for incoming freshmen. Such programs are already succeeding at Duke, Dartmouth, and Cal Tech. “This would help freshmen get around totally hall-oriented activities,” said Coffey.

However, the outing orientation program is still in the discussion stage.

Both Coffey and Jacobs urged interested students “to help plan a trip and use the equipment.”

Jacobs shows
[Hunter Jennings]

By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer
“It’s the most enjoyable activity I can think of,” declared Brian Jacobs. “The excitement is what makes me do it,” Steve Coffey countered. What are they talking about? Why, backpacking!

Backpacking has a great following of enthusiasts, especially in this area. “Backpacking is just a completely different lifestyle,” began Jacobs. “You can challenge yourself to a rough trail or just sit back and look at the view.”

Davidson students have their choice of either one, because the local landscape has many excellent spots for backpacking and climbing, all within a few hours’ drive. Some of the more popular areas include Mount Mitchell, Mount Rogers, Va., and the Appalachian Trail. The Shining Rock Wilderness Area and Linville Gorge require reservations to keep too many enthusiastic hikers from upsetting the local ecology. The Nantahala River (within the Nantahala National Forest) provides challenging canoeing courses, with a road running alongside.

For students unacquainted with the outdoors, Central Piedmont Community College, through the Charlotte Consortium, offers two courses in basic mountaineering, in the fall and spring terms for a nominal fee of $4.25. Following basic instruction in knots and climbing technique, the class practices rappelling from a fire tower in Charlotte. Said Sophomore Steve Fritts, “When you’re on the sixth floor with a rope around you, having to lean back, you overcome your fear of heights.”

The class culminates in day trips to King’s and Crowder’s Mountains, as well as Table Rock. In the past, Davidson has offered individual P.E. credit for completion of the courses. The Consortium hopes to offer a whitewater canoeing course “if not this term, then in the spring,” Coffey said.

Both Coffey and Jacobs emphasized the importance of the novice backpacker hiking with an experienced one. Other precautions should include: informing someone of when you expect to return, and utilizing a first-aid kit, a map, and proper footwear. With the appropriate equipment and preparation, the seniors felt that anyone could go hiking at any time of the year. They concluded that the first hike is really “No big deal. Just go!”

HANGING ROCK
State Park