December 9, 1977. The Davidsonian

Zimmermann defends decision
Continued from page 1

“Davidson is a finely tuned operation,” said Zimmermann. “If there is wild fluctuation in the number of courses taken or in the people present, there are problems. We don’t want to see irregularity and fluctuation in enrollment.”

For instance, the majority of this year’s senior class has enough credits to take reduced loads. Some even have enough to graduate in March. Zimmermann feels if too many students took advantage of their extra credits, more students would graduate early. The school depends upon these students’ continuing tuition to maintain steady fiscal management. Zimmermann said, “With a 13:1 ratio of students to faculty, the departure of only 13 students would undermine the salary of one faculty member.”

Zimmermann said, theoretically, all courses are equivalent and, therefore, unless there is a substantial reason for taking a reduced load such as a physical or psychological disability or certain types of work, a student should take the required load. Furthermore, a number of supporters feel that students who take two courses are a cause of demoralization on the part of students taking three courses, since the former have more time to spend on their work, giving them an unfair advantage grade-wise.

According to Zimmermann, there is a need for continuity in a Davidson education. Davidson is a full-time institution and many supporters agreed that students who do not want to go to Davidson College full-time are wasting both the time and facilities available to them when there are people who wish to be full-time students and are not accepted.

Those who oppose the three-course requirement argue that so few people choose to take two courses that the administration should not worry about such petty matters. The opponents feel that the administration is taking a paternalistic attitude towards students. “Students, if they are ahead in their credits, should be mature enough to decide for themselves if they should take three courses or not,” said junior Peggy Noel, a member of the EPC. “I don't think more outside interference is necessary.”

According to some faculty members, the school is not only taking a paternalistic attitude towards students, but the policy forces students to conform and leaves them no time to think nonacademic problems out if they need to. Another argument is that since in practice not all courses are equivalent in the amount of work they give, a student might need more time and not be able to handle three courses in one term.

Students will still be able to submit requests to the CRC for reduced loads. Simply being ahead, though, will not by itself be an adequate factor for approval. Eight students were given approval to take two courses winter term. Those who were not approved can still appeal to the Executive Committee. “The enforcement of this policy may adversely affect the number who will apply next term,” concluded Burts.

There is news at Davidson, more than the student body wants to hear. Issues such as whether extra credits is a valid reason for taking two courses instead of three in a term, whether the Trustees did not fulfill their last spring promises when they drew up the enacting statement, whether the College is raising money as successfully as other colleges, whether the curriculum is broad enough or not, whether the Athletic budget is too high, whether the faculty morale is low, whether a semester system is preferable, whether Davidson is a healthy atmosphere when the main philosophy in hiring and firing faculty seems to be “who fits in.” We know everyone is tired of the long list of ills. But that does not make them go away. We may be blindly stubborn in our persistence, but we are not blind.

Actually, this week we up here in the corner office are happy as hyenas that we have nothing to say. No news is good news when you're tired.

The Davidsonian
Catherine Landis .......... Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins ......... Features Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair .......... Features Editors
Amanda Hall
Susan Colan
Warren Soule
Brian Benninghoff
Gregg Strader
Merideth DurdenHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Hunter Jennings.......  
Patsy Daniels.........  
Ann Garner...........  

Published weekly during the school year by students of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett......... Editorial Page Editors  
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell... Sports Editors  
Managing Editor  
Photography Editor  
Production Manager  
Business Manager  
Advertising Manager  
Cartoonist  
Photographer  
Focus Editor  

On the Edge  
Ralphy calls it quits  
By KEVIN SHELLY  
Staff Writer

“Well look, if Ellison can write one book and quit, why can’t I quit writing this tripe?” I responded to Entwistle’s inquiry.  
“Because of this,” countered Jim, brandishing his fist. “And save the literary illusions for the other two anyone knows what the hell you’re talking about.”  
“Sticks and stones may break my bones, but history majors don’t even—”  
“Just go home and talk to Ralphy and do whatever you two do together.”  
“Get drunk and wish we were getting some.”

Well Ralphy and I kicked it around and we couldn’t come up with much for our swan song. Course Beethoven’s 9th wasn’t his best either. I mean how do you combine pathos and profound insight without being schmaltzy? But then, what’s it all about besides the struggle to do so on your own terms?

I guess if there’s anything to be culled from the debris of earlier columns that it would be to find your own terms for contending with all the tended with. And Ralphy adds not to multiply your problems by being a problem to yourself. Howard the Duck has as much right to your attention as Tolstoy—the trick is in knowing when you need which, not trying to categorize and compare them and knowing how to leave them and go when you’ve outgrown each other. And I suppose the same goes for people.

A none too understanding fellow feared that Ralphy and me might use the soapbox of a column to vent our spleens, but there are more important ways to fill space, which brings us back to people. Almost everything goes back to people if you trace it along far enough, but usually we’re content to label something an institution or a tradition and let it go. What we need to do is push the politics aside, (after all Abbie Hoffman was at least right about politics) and concentrate on the particulars of human relationships. There are some fine people here, but then that is so most everywhere you go. The particular appeal of the people here is the infinite potential they have in them to grow, change, and expand. The shame is just how many have channelized themselves, cutting off so much of what it means to be a complex and contradictory human creature. What we need to do is become more at home with our natures and acknowledge what walking paradoxes each of us is, and will continue to be, so long as we’re truly human.

The best thing we could all do for each other is to forego about ten hours of tube time during mid-year break and read or reread Buber's I and Thou and Between Man and Man. Lest we be too gauzy about Buber’s expectations, perhaps R.D. Laing’s Politics of Experience will provide the proper element of skepticism to remind us just how difficult it is gonna be. But if it were easy would it be near so important? Ralphy and I think not.

Well, Ralphy and me just been chastised by two of the people who made this place important for us because we’re skippin’ town. All the big bills have been paid, but the little debts remain, which sorta makes us feel like thieves makin’ off with the family silver. A lot of life is the unconscious squaring of accounts of human giving and we know we’re leaving with a lot of little debts that may not seem like much on an individual basis but are bigger than Getty’s millions when added up. So for those of you who gave so generously, we thank you, not knowing what else to say that can be adequate. And we apologize for leaving things up in the air, but if we waited around till parity was reached, they might just be burying us here. Goodbye and thanks and keep in mind that the woods are full of wardens. If any of you need to collect on our overdrawn accounts you can write to us in care of the parents back in Upper Darby, home of Jim Croce, Todd Rundgren, John Cappelette, and us. We’ll be out somewhere shooting dragons—they don’t move as fast in the winter—at least that’s what the other romantic warriors tell us.

THE END (We promise)