The Davidsonian April 15, 1977

After all these
By JIM ENTWISTLE
Editorial Page Editor

Undoubtedly, all Davidson students intermittently entertain the idea of giving in to their frustrations and leaving school for a while
to experience “the real world.” The rationale for taking time off usually goes something like this: “I can always come
back to school after I figure out what I really want out of it.” Bill Hearn, currently working on a
sociology degree at Davidson, took time off during his college career—eight years of it. Hearn originally came to Davidson as
a freshman in the fall of 1965 and stayed for two and a half years until he dropped out in
January of 1968 (interrupted by a semester back at Davidson in fall ’74). Between his decision to leave school in
1968 and his return to campus this March, Hearn spent time in various corners of the world engaged in the
following activities:

—working in a factory in Newton, N.C.
—teaching adult and driver’s education as a VISTA volunteer on an Indian reservation in Montana
—studying in the Netherlands
—“kibbutzing” in Israel
—traveling across Asia from the Middle East as far as Malaysia
—working for a food stamp program in Philadelphia
—working as a farm laborer in Oregon
—delivering mail in Pittsburgh
—working at Sheldon Jackson College in Sitka, Alaska
—managing adult bookstores in Charlotte, Washington, and Baltimore
—delivering mail in Fairbanks, Alaska
—working as a volunteer journalist for a newspaper in Nome, Alaska

From his position, Hearn has a clearer view of the transitions that Davidson has undergone since the radical days of
the '60s. He feels that there have been no substantive or fundamental changes in the orientation of Davidson College since
his departure in 1968. But even if fundamental changes have not occurred here since 1968, there have certainly been a
multitude of secondary or peripheral changes since then. Hearn elaborates freely on some of these differences. Fraternities were in their
heyday here while he was at Davidson with approximately 70 percent of the student body participating in the system. “There
was zero social life for the independents,” he commented. “I personally disliked what the fraternities stood for, specifically the rejection
aspect of the bidding process, but there was a lot of pressure to join, so I pledged Sigma Nu.” The
large percent of students participating in the fraternity system enabled each house to have a wide cross-section of the student
body. Hearn feels this characteristic gave Davidson fraternities an advantage which similar groups at a larger school didn’t have.

In addition to this, in 1967 a group of Davidson students, including Hearn, went to Washington to take part in
the famous Pentagon protest of that year. “About the most radical thing that happened around here was when my fraternity
pledged a black guy,” Hearn recalls. Also during this period, Hearn applied for conscientious objector draft status. “Dr. Polley was
a real help to me in this, especially in...

The Davidsonian
The News And Editorial Voice Of The Davidson College Student Body
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, NC. 28036, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1967

The advent of co-education has been a definite plus for Davidson, Hearn contends, who recalls that during his years here
students often went ridiculous distances to even get blind dates. “Having girls in the student body is a good idea
which should normalize male/female relationships.”

Two years of ROTC were required of all students while Hearn was here. “At first I had no strong feelings
on the matter,” he asserts, “but I gradually came to view it as a nuisance as did a lot of
students. A good number, however, went on to advanced ROTC because they wanted to go into the military as officers
instead of as privates.”

Compared to the protest activity which occurred on many other college campuses, “not too much went on” at Davidson, Hearn
explains. “Around 1966, an attempt was made to establish an SDS chapter on campus, but that lasted for only a
few meetings.”

Book review
Spanish novel
By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

What Joyce and Faulkner began with their use of interior monologue and stream of consciousness, Garcia Marquez has taken to
its logical conclusion in El Otono del Patriarca. He has added his own metaphysical speculations to these techniques, creating one
of the more difficult, yet most rewarding, novels published in the last few years. El Otono del Patriarca by Gregory
Rabasa and published in translated English under the title The Autumn of the Patriarch deals with a South American dictator
whose incredible lifespan (between 107 and 235 years) and an all-pervasive personality turns a prosperous country into “a vast realm
of nightmare.” In doing so, he sells the nation’s territorial waters to the Americans, who...cart them away in numbered pieces,
and works out an infallible way to win the national lottery time and time again. He canonizes his mother by
decree and a palace full of lepers, singing birds, and cows that eat velvet. The novel centers on the patriarch’s
death, but each repetition of this fact calls up a stream of memories which, in lengthy sentences punctuated only by
commas, and the cadence of evoke sensations of the past and present. Marquez never allows the novel to dwell on
any one event too long; his speaker is the universal consciousness wading through the necessary paperwork.

At that time, chapel attendance was mandatory. Students had the option of fulfilling this requirement at any church they wished,
but “most people went to DCPC.” Despite the presence of some “protest” activities on campus, “the religious atmosphere didn’t tend
towards pacifism. In that area, the general attitude seemed to be more of the basic ‘hypocritical Protestant’ viewpoint,” Hearn commented.
Big weekends such as Homecoming and Spring Frolics haven't changed very much since 1968, Hearn believes. “There was usually a
big-name musical group each of these weekends. For example, while I was here we had The Association and Spanky and
Our Gang. Beyond these big events, the big weekends were dominated by the Patterson Court fraternities, even of a country
that has lived in fear for ages, through their general’s once-feigned death and ‘rebirth’ until it has no memory of
his accession to power. As they themselves admit, the people have no idea even of what their ruler looks like.
They recognize in the opening pages that though his portrait is everywhere, it is a portrait whose inaccuracy was known
even in the days of the comet which passed long ago. The past rolls around a present centered on the
patriarch’s historical fact and fable shrouds the inquisitive who find the demise. The ruler dead on his office floor, his
face half-eaten by vultures. In this novel, Marquez is holding to a metaphysic invented and explained in the closing pages
of another of his works, One Hundred Years of Solitude. All time, to him, is one immediacy, illimitable and chronicled
forever and irrevocably. It is this which makes The Autumn of the Patriarch so difficult and so intriguing. For chronological
detail is lost in the lake of time into which he throws his dictator and what is left is a
vague but persistent sense of eternity. In Spanish, the novel is definitely a Colombian work using slang and dialect specifically
characteristic of the region surrounding Cartagena. Rabassa’s translation is occasionally flat but nevertheless evokes the eternity the work partakes of
in the original, an eternity which, unlike the patriarch’s territorial waters, cannot be sliced up and carted off piecemeal.

Though fines were assessed if any of the houses were caught with beer at a party or with girls in
the wrong places at the wrong times. For beer drinking in general, “we usually went up the road to The
Anchor Tavern or Hattie’s.” 1965 through 1968 were some of the premier years for Davidson basketball. Hearn recalls “very little
dissent” against the amount of funds appropriated for the program. Just before his arrival at Davidson, Homer Smith was hired
as football coach in an effort to revitalize that program, which resulted in a small controversy. “The issue was whether
the college should make large financial commitments to both sports instead of just emphasizing basketball,” Hearn elaborated. When Hearn first
came to Davidson, he was a self-described “long-hair from the North,” but found a very tolerant atmosphere. “I wasn’t ‘persecuted’
at all, but was accepted right away,” Hearn explains. Along these same lines, he found that “relations were pretty good”
with townspeople, especially blacks. “I was very impressed with the ease with which I was able to strike up relationships
with some of the janitors and black employees. It was a sort of interracial human contact which I rarely found
in the North.”

Hearn has many humorous reminiscences from his early years at Davidson. “I distinctly remember being escorted out of the Union
by Shaw Smith for entering the building barefoot,” he chuckles. Some things about Davidson seem to be universal regardless of
the time period. Hearn explains, “Attitudes about this place are still up to the individual. You can make of your
‘Davidson Experience’ pretty much whatever you want to make of it.” Hearn’s ramblings have made him a strong advocate of
“time off” for students. He is especially impressed with Ken Wood’s work in Experiential Programs, something that was not offered
during his time at Davidson. “When I decided to leave in 1968, the only position the placement office could come
up with for me was to work as a campus policeman at Wayne State in Detroit,” Hearn laughs. Hearn’s plans
for the future? “I need only one more term in order to graduate,” he indicated, “but after this term I’ll
probably go back to Alaska and after I’ve made some money come back and finish up here.”
