March 11, 1977

$8.6 million budget Trustees hike comp

By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

At their February meeting, the Board of Trustees reached decisions regarding the budget, membership in the Southern Conference, a central dining facility, and the $35 million Development Program.

First, an $8.6 million balanced budget and a comprehensive student fee increase of $375 for the 1977-78 academic year were approved. The budget’s increase from the current year’s $8 million is due largely to inflation, according to Comptroller Robert W. Davidson. Increases in faculty and staff salaries were cited as the “largest factor” in inflated costs. Substantial increases in the price of library books, athletic and laboratory equipment, oil, and electricity were further cited as causes for the rise in costs.

The 1977-78 comprehensive student fee of $4,510 includes a $200 increase in tuition and a $100 increase in the dining fee. “When you consider that most of the other top independent colleges in the country charge from $5,000 to $7,000 a year, Davidson looks like a bargain,” the Comptroller noted. “The trustees are determined to do everything possible to keep our fees within control and reach of the families who want a Davidson education for their sons and daughters.”

“It is important to remember that student fees make up less than half of our annual operating income,” said Vice-President for Development Duane Dittman. “Earnings from our endowment, gifts, grants, and trust funds are expected to...

Marshall fears regression

By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

Peyton Marshall, student member of the Educational Policy Committee, warned the Senate to watch for a shift toward a more conservative curriculum. Marshall spoke to the Senate at the invitation of President Thom Young. The talk was part of Young’s efforts to inform the Senate of college policy.

There is an undercurrent of feeling to abolish certain “fringe areas,” such as Extended Studies and non-Western studies. He stated that many of the curriculum innovations which came about several years ago are in danger of being lost as the college enters a more complacent period. The committee expects to re-evaluate having two students as members. Roger Brown now serves as the other student on the committee.

Marshall urged the Senate to be very cautious in appointing the new student members this spring because the committee’s actions are far-reaching and affect all students. To ensure continuity and expertise, he recommended that at least one of the members be no more than a rising junior. Much of the committee's work is done in secrecy and in sub-committees. After the committee votes on a report, there is a five-day period before it is acted on by the faculty. Students have this period to react to the committee’s report.

Although the committee works in secrecy to protect the free exchange of ideas, Marshall said the group is open to student input. The Senate has begun its process of appointing students to the administration and faculty councils and committees.

Parliamentarian Percy Badham explained the process, which will divide the Senate into four screening committees. Each group will nominate candidates to positions on three committees. Badham will head the first group which will nominate students to the Bookstore and Alumni Activities Committees as well as the Council on Campus and Religious Life. Interviews for the positions will begin next week. The full Senate will vote on candidates on a rotating basis. This will enable unsuccessful candidates to seek positions on other committees.

The Senate voted unanimously to allocate $150 toward the purchase of two portable black and white televisions for the Infirmary. This money is matched by the Dean of Students Office. In a unanimous vote, Taine Allison and Charlie Strange were appointed to the Club Sports Council.

PEREGRINE HOUSE
Pizza Delivered
Sun.-Wed. 5 to 10
Thurs.-Sat. 5 to 7

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841Total approximately $7.5 million in 1977-78. In effect, this is an unseen subsidy of about $1,900 per student toward the $6,000 cost of a Davidson education.”

The second item approved by the Board of Trustees was the decision for the college to return to the Southern Conference. This decision started as a recommendation from the Athletic Department and was based on four factors, according to College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

One, it would be neither possible nor practical for Davidson to organize a separate conference.

Two, Virginia Military Institute’s decision to re-enter the Conference represented a comprehensive return of a school which is comparable in size to Davidson and has been a long-time associate of the college.

Three, the Conference urged Davidson to remain despite the fact that the college does not intend to play football with many Conference schools.

Four, the basketball staff felt that Davidson has a better chance to play in post-season tournaments through participation in the Conference.

The third decision reached by the Board of Trustees was the approval of the idea of a College Commons. Given Davidson’s overcrowded dining facilities, the college had two options open to it, according to Spencer. Either it could enlarge its present facilities, expending a “good deal of money” on a project which “would probably not be completely satisfactory,” or it could build another facility. Dean of Students Will H. Terry commented on the establishment of a College Commons.

[see TRUSTEES, page 6]

Room. Media Board Openings

The three at-large positions on the Davidson College Student Media Board remain unfilled. If you are interested in being considered for one of these spots, please see Matthew Covington (892-4305), Bert Downs (892-6578), or Greg Hankins. A meeting for interested persons will be held Monday, March 14, at 8 pm in the Union’s Green Meeting Room.

Rabil criticizes Council’s Language House rejection

By STEPHANIE COOK
Staff Writer

“This rejection is a definite setback for the language program at Davidson.” So spoke senior Mark Rabil, evaluating a recent decision by the Council on Campus and Religious Life which turned down a proposal to establish language houses at Davidson.

Rabil submitted the proposal, which would have allowed students in each of three languages—Spanish, German, and French—to live in three of the college’s perimeter housing facilities. While in the houses, students were to speak their foreign language. Each house was to serve as a cultural center, with the residents sponsoring programs, films, small parties, discussions, and other activities.

The Council's three arguments against the proposal were: 1) it would be unfair to take three of the eight available off-campus houses which have traditionally been reserved for seniors. 2) giving an off-campus house to this special-interest group might stimulate an undesirable “snowball effect” encouraging other small groups to seek similar privileges. 3) Davidson maintains a liberal arts outlook with emphasis on exposure to many different interest areas, and language houses would not allow for sufficient interaction with these areas.

Rabil contests the Council’s line of reasoning. “They said they rejected the proposal because it is not fair to give one of the most desired places to live to a specialized group of students. I think that ‘fairness’ argument is an overused and ultimately detrimental cliché.

“The establishment of language houses at Davidson would be beneficial to several aspects of the College community.” Not only would they greatly improve the language program, they would increase extracurricular activities and would be a good public relations stimulus, Rabil commented. “Recently, I was extensively involved with the decision to assign Rusk House to the women’s group. The Council felt that giving the house to this group—which caters to a special interest—would be beneficial to the social system at Davidson.

“By rejecting the language houses, the Council has acted inconsistently with the Rusk House decision. In the same way that the women’s house is [see COUNCIL, page 6]