The Davidsonian

September 16, 1977

[Continued from page 7]

His specialty is human memory. “Memory, I have found, is dependent upon meaning. I am researching how people remember prose.”
He has published a number of essays in various journals and plans to continue researching and publishing. Brockway taught a
year at the University of Constance in Germany. “Germany is more Americanized than any other European country. I was amazed
at the bureaucracy and materialism there.”

Davidson’s Student Union presents TOUCH

Friday, Saturday nights

STEVE MARTIN
WITH SPECIAL GUEST
JOHN SEBASTIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 28
WAIT CHAPEL
WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY
ALL SEATS RESERVED $5.50

Bank checks or money orders only. Send with stamped, self-addressed envelope to: W.F.U. Tickets
Box 7638
Wake Forest University
Winston-Salem, N.C. 27109
Orders received after Sept. 22 will be held at the door.

As economic conditions in Europe worsened, Brockway chose to return to the United States where he assumed a position in
the Psychology Department at Penn State.

“I either want to be at a very large university which had exceedingly good research facilities because I enjoy research
or at a very small university or college where I could teach as well as research.”

“I enjoyed my undergraduate studies at Lafayette because it was small and there was close contact with students and faculty.
At a large university you have to get used to anonymity.

“You can go around for weeks without having anyone talk to you as they go by, or say hello or
even smile.”

Brockway, 32, is married and has no children. His wife is a systems analyst. Brockway reads extensively and is interested
in photography, working with wood, and automobiles.

Timothy N. Webster

Timothy N. Webster recently joined the Psychology Department. Webster, a 1973 graduate of Davidson, expressed his delight at again being
a part of the College community.

“I was interested in this sort of teaching—working with bright and motivated students,” he explained.

Webster said that the biggest change since his undergraduate days is the change to coeducation.

“I don’t know if coeducation is necessarily responsible for this but my impression of faculty-student relationships seems to have improved.
Not to say they were bad when I was a student, but there seems to be less tension and a
more relaxed, informal atmosphere.”

Webster has a special academic interest in clinical psychology and psychotherapy. Another major thrust of his studies includes research in
the area of assertiveness and its impact upon intimate communication.

The transition from student to faculty member was somewhat disarming, Webster said.

“It’s definitely a major change,” he explained. “I don’t have any complaints. The faculty is very receptive and view me
as a colleague,” he continued.

“It’s a difficulty I have to deal with relating to these people on a peer level.

“I still have a great deal of respect but it’s a different thing when you’re a colleague.”

In his new position as faculty member, Webster expressed the hope that “the College will try to seek out and
achieve a greater diversity in people’s background and perspective on life.”

In his spare time, Webster likes to “get out and get away from buildings and people.” He especially likes the
North Carolina mountains where he...
