Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

January 28, 1977

To the Editor:

This letter is written in reply to last week’s article by Bill Barnett. As a coed, I also recognize the
need for more interaction between female students. I question, however, whether an all-women eating house is the best answer.

One problem such a house will encounter is financial. The “founders” have stressed that girls will be faced with less
starchy foods. But by replacing these inexpensive foods with salads—perishable food that must be bought out of season—the cost of
meals will greatly increase. How many girls will be willing to pay more money when they are actually eating less?

Secondly, I realize that the last thing Angie Wright and Margaret Herman want is a sorority. But the way Patterson
Court works socially, what house will want to combine with an all-female eating house for a party except an all-male
eating house?

I also feel that an all-female eating house will separate only further the coeds as a distinct sex. It’s hard
enough at Davidson to have working friendships. But when you take away casual interaction of sexes at meals, you are
increasing a view of girls as just dates.

My final consideration centers around what an eating house should stress. The girls emphasize that their house will often invite
speakers; act on community service projects, sponsor forums. But in my opinion what Patterson Court desperately needs is a house
whose main concern is in easing the present strain on eating spaces. If the girls want service projects and interaction,
why not a lounge on Jackson Court and scheduled lunches maybe twice a week where all girls could gather?

Meg Campbell '78
Davidson College

---

To the Editor:

“The Davidson cops, ha!” “Those country hicks.” “The Davidson cops; all they guard is 7-11.” Yuk. Yuk. Yuk. “Those dudes
are a real joke.” “The metropolitan-Davidson police regiment.” “All they do is drink coffee and look tough.” Yuk. Yuk. Yuk.
“What a bunch of rednecks.” “The cops? A real joke.” “Are you kidding, ha. Clowns.” Yuk. Yuk. Yuk. “They have
an I.Q. of 130....combined.” “Is that a police station or a utility closet?” “Precinct number two. Are you kidding me?”
“Love that crew cut.” Yuk. Yuk. Yuk.

For years the police of the City of Davidson have been belittled, laughed at, ridiculed, and otherwise demeaned in stature
by the student body, publicly and privately. The student newspaper and the yearbook have repeatedly printed candid photos reflecting little
respect. And we, the student body, are wrong.

Respect is something a professional not only earns but expects. THE MAN has the badge. THE MAN has the gun.
THE MAN has the court system and the law to back his action and judgment. In Davidson, THE MAN can
issue $27 traffic tickets almost at will, without hesitating to consider a warning ticket. Wouldn’t it be better to have
the police working in consideration for the student body instead of in spite of us? At $27 a hit, I’m
a believer.

James. J. Kopel, Jr. ’77
Davidson College

---

Craig compares

To the Editor:

Bravo to The Davidsonian for pointing out a problem that has been tolerated around here simply too long: the inadequacy
and incompetency of the Davidson Police Force. Stealthily hiding in the bushes or whatever. At least we would know they
were doing their jobs.

I think that the death of Mr. Sherrill this past summer brought the extent of the problem into sharper focus.
During the years he was here, he was campus security, it seems. Sure, he was old and slow, and he
didn’t carry a gun, but it was the seemingly little things he did, such as locking doors, checking on late-studying
students, walking around campus, and providing that friendly, personal touch. The police relied on Mr. Sherrill to do this part
of their jobs, and this he willingly did, for being visible and personable was something that came naturally to him.
But he confided to me more than once that he thought they were a “sorry bunch,” and it seems that,
prima facie, he may have been right. For now Mr. Sherrill (bless his soul) is gone, and the police are
left to do their own jobs.his soul) is gone, and we realize how much the police haven’t been doing. Capt.
Hughes says “they’re not out there to be seen; they’re out there to see,” but this seems to be, one,
a convenient cover-up for why no one ever sees them on campus, and two, a poor way to prevent crime.
Surely they could cover more territory and reassure more people by their presence if they were walking around instead. As
it is, I honestly believe they do not patrol inside the campus perimeter at night. A mass murder could occur
in front of Chambers and the police wouldn’t know it. Well, maybe they would hear the screams since they’re usually
in the snack bar eating burgers.

JOE CRAIG
The Davidsonian

Other ongoing efforts

PASTORAL SCENE puts Davidson pressure into perspective. (Hunter Jennings)

Heath ignites libertarian spark
By CHARLES ERWIN
Asst. Features Editor

The Libertarian movement, which has been floating around in the back halls of American philosophy for quite a while, has
suddenly struck Davidson College. The Young Libertarian Alliance, an organization of Libertarian students, is presently struggling to emerge on campus.
Freshman Eugene Heath, who is an ardent Libertarian himself, has been working to found a local chapter. One person responded
to his December notice in the Announcement Sheet. Through discussions with other students, he has secured one more prospective member.
He believes there are a lot more sympathizers to be reached.

Heath has sent off an affiliation petition to the national organization. He plans to seek official SGA recognition on campus
in the near future. The North Carolina Libertarian Party will hold a board meeting in the Union next Sunday afternoon.
Heath plans to put out an information table outside of the Post Office sometime next week. He plans to show
a film, “The Incredible Bread Machine,” just before exams.

In 1972, the Libertarian Party ran its first presidential candidate, Dr. John Hospers, who is the chairman of the USC
Department of Philosophy. Hospers wound up with one electoral vote, compared with 17 for George McGovern. Roger MacBride was the
party presidential candidate in 1976. He received 183,000 votes nationally and 6 percent of the Alaskan vote. This put it
ahead of any other American third party. The party was only founded in 1971 by a group of activists in
Denver. “In five years the Libertarian Party has overcome tremendous obstacles to establish itself as the only viable third party
in America,” according to Heath.

Heath is careful to point out that the party is neither a radical left-wing group nor a reactionary right-wing group.
It simply stands for the advancement of personal liberty in America. The group believes that each individual has the right
to life, liberty, and property; but that these rights are presently being violated by the Federal bureaucracy. Heath also said
that “Government should be limited to providing courts, police protection, and defense.”

Libertarians believe in the value of a totally free market, “regulated by subsidies, product regulation, regulatory agencies, and wage and
price controls,” he said. “Victimless crime laws should be repealed, government spying on individual citizens should be stopped, and the
CIA should be abolished,” said Heath. “Our ultimate goal is a free society based on individual rights and volunteerism,” he
stated. “As long as governments have the coercive powers to draft and tax, war will inevitably arise. The United States
should aim for isolationism, which is the only policy compatible with the rights of individuals,” Heath said.

“I have found that too many people have a mythological idea about the omniscient goodness of government,” said Heath. “Some
of my ideas may seem strange or new. When I first encountered the ideas back in high school, some of
them also made me squirm intellectually. But often, as I found out more about the issues, I came to uphold
the Libertarian ideals.

“If any of what I have said has struck a spark, don’t give up; the cause of liberty is too
important,” he concluded.
