Rabil proposes language houses
By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

A proposal recommending the establishment of language houses at Davidson has been submitted to Dean of Students Will Terry.

“The houses will be a boost to the college’s language program,” said Senior Mark Rabil. Early this year, Rabil suggested that the college consider the language house concept, and since then he has been studying the feasibility of the program.

“The languages suffer because there is a lack of opportunities for experiential learning,” said Rabil. “The day-to-day use of language is important, and the houses will offer that advantage.”

Fourteen Spanish students, fourteen German students, and twenty-one French speakers have indicated an interest in living in a language house. About half of each group are women. Rabil’s plan calls for each group to live in one of the college’s perimeter housing facilities.

While in the house, the students will speak their foreign language. Each house will serve as a cultural resource for the residents. “The residents will sponsor programs, films, small parties, discussions, and other activities.”

An important part of each house will be the kitchen and the dining room, where the residents will prepare and eat some of their meals.

Rabil admitted that he had encountered many problems while studying the formation of language houses. “Starting a house is hard—just getting interested students to sign a list isn’t enough,” he said. But he feels that most roadblocks can be overcome.

“We don’t want the residents of the houses to create a new Americanized dialect of their foreign language. To prevent that from occurring, we hope the international students will live in the language houses also.

“Many of the international students now tutor students and teach classes in their native language. They can serve as a reference point, a resource for the houses,” he continued. “And we're not depriving the international students of any opportunities. They will have plenty of time away from the houses to perfect their English.

“I don’t know which houses we would use if the program is approved. Since all the groups are coed, some rearrangement of bathroom facilities may be necessary.”

Rabil said he realized that the language houses would occupy some off-campus facilities and would somewhat restrict the off-campus living opportunities for upperclassmen. “But I believe the program is academically important enough to justify some minor inconveniences. Language houses are non-academic—they are another way of learning outside class in real-life experience—something we need more of here,” said Rabil.

Terry is chairman of the Council of Campus and Religious Life, the group that will decide on Rabil’s proposal. “I want to talk to the language departments and clarify a few points. I also want to talk to Scotty Nicholls (Director of Student Housing) and get her opinions on the living arrangements. After we contact these people, the Committee will make its decision.”

January 21, 1977
Vol. LXVI, No. TWELVE
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Nine chosen from ’80
Fellows’ new director Kello explains program’s options
By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

Six women and three men in the class of 1980 were awarded North Carolina Fellowships during Selection Weekend, January 14-17.

“(The Fellowship) should be seen as an opportunity to do something, rather than as an honor,” according to John Kello, professor of psychology and the newly-appointed North Carolina Fellows (NCF) Director. “It should be seen as a chance to develop.”

The NCF was established to allow those students demonstrating leadership potential the opportunity to develop their interests and abilities. In working toward this end, the program helps the students to focus their interest, and funds summer internships when financial help is needed.Addition, the program offers specific summer internship placement help by providing students with names and addresses of college alumni and businessmen working in the students’ fields of interest. The internship should be a “two-way development,” according to Kello. It is an opportunity for students to “develop themselves and give back to the college.”

In discussing the selection procedure, Kello stated, “Ideally, we look for potential for the development of leadership in any given area.” Kello admits the difficulty in defining “leadership,” but says that NCF looks for students who have “some specific area of interest, specific ideas for follow-up of that interest, a reasonably good academic background, and past evidence of leadership roles.” He said they also look for students who demonstrate a “sense of social responsibility” and the “enthusiasm and motivation” to take advantage of the opportunities offered them.

“The students generally do take pretty good advantage of the internship program,” said Kello. “Not all the students need the money or the contacts through the Fellows Office. But I get the impression that when they do need it, they do use the opportunities... the feedback from the students (on their internships) has been terrific.”

The number of students awarded Fellowships has been reduced in the last few years from 12-15 per class to this year’s nine. Kello cited “increasing limitations on resources” as the primary cause for the reduction. Originally funded by the Richardson Foundation, the NCF financial backing has been assumed by the College Trustees. An advisory board, [See, KELLO, page 2]

Council hears both sides, postpones Rusk decision
By GAIL MAYNARD
Staff Writer

The Council on Campus and Religious Life did not reach a decision this week on whether a freshman coed group or an all-woman organization should gain possession of Rusk House, which will be open to an eating club next year.

Freshman representative Robert Payne insisted that his group had priority over the women because the freshmen had formed their plans much earlier in the school year for obtaining Rusk House. Dean of Students Will Terry supported Payne’s statement by saying he had encouraged the freshmen to form a group at the beginning of the year, and he had not heard of any other interested parties until recently.

The women’s representative Angie Wright stated that a women’s eating house on campus would pave the way towards unifying females at Davidson.

Senior Mark Rabil presented a subcommittee report concerning problems on Patterson Court. He said that major problems were overcrowding on the Court and a need for clarification of Patterson Court Council bylaws. Rabil suggested both long and short-range solutions to the overcrowding problem. The subcommittee’s favored long-range answer was the building of a central dining facility which would feed approximately five hundred people. A short-range solution to overcrowding, Rabil suggested, was the opening of Rusk House as a new eating house. The committee agreed, then unanimously voted to open Rusk House as an eating service.

Questions were directed to both groups concerning their purpose for forming a house and what they would do if they did not receive Rusk House. Payne replied that if his group didn’t get Rusk they would try to get as many people as possible into Emanon through self-selection. Wright said that the women would have no choice but to wait until another house was opened, and until then, try to have meetings in an effort to unify the females on campus.

Terry reminded the committee that it is important for both groups to be totally [See RUSK, page 2]

FOCUS
Crime in Davidson
see pages 6, 7