January 14, 1977

Committee studies program changes

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Asst. News Editor

As a part of the five-year plan to re-evaluate educational policies, the Educational Policy Committee is investigating the Extended Studies
programs. Extended Studies, since its conception, has gone through a series of changes which have caused it to evolve into
its present state.

The program’s origin actually goes back to 1965. In that year, a Visiting Committee of the Southern Association of Colleges
and Schools, after spending three days at Davidson, submitted a written report to the college concerning our institutional self-study. The
report called our chapter on the educational program “dull and unimaginative.”

The Visiting Committee’s report triggered the formation of a faculty committee whose job was to make recommendations to the faculty
for the details of a revised curriculum. The Committee was dubbed the Blue Sky Committee, and was spearheaded by Dr.
Jay H. Ostwalt, the Registrar at the time. The Blue Sky Committee submitted its report to the faculty in November
1967. The Committee’s recommended curriculum was designed to give students more flexibility and challenge.

The new curriculum went into effect in 1968 and included graduation requirements calling for the completion of 32 courses, with
three courses being the normal load in each the fall and winter, and two courses in the spring term. In
addition to the regular courses, each student was required to take four area exams at some point during his sophomore
or junior year. The spring terms, with only two standard classes, were set aside for the purpose of allowing students
an opportunity to prepare for these area exams, usually by reading books from wide-ranging reading lists drawn up by the
faculty.

The area exams quickly became the source of a major controversy, as a majority of the students had little or
no preparation for the exams. The area exams were replaced after two years by Extended Studies. Dr. Ostwalt commented on
the purpose, “As originally conceived, the Extended Studies Program was designed to give the students an opportunity to follow some
areas of special interest which were not available through the regular courses in the Davidson curriculum. In effect, it opened
the way for students to exercise a substantial amount of freedom in their decisions about what they should study at
Davidson.”

The Extended Studies Program was mandatory in its early years, requiring students to take at least one Extended Studies course
each year. Freshmen and sophomores were supposed to take outside their prospective majors; juniors and seniors were required to take
an Extended Studies course in their major. The Extended Studies Program for juniors and seniors remains virtually the same at
the present time.

Problems arose, however, with the freshman-sophomore program. The faculty members became over-burdened with the supervision of so many students on
individual bases. The faculty had also failed to establish the standards regarding the amount and quality of work in Extended
Studies, which served to weaken the program. Additionally, in many cases, students were being forced to take something where there
may have been no interest. The situation was alleviated to some degree in 1973 when Extended Studies for freshmen and
sophomores became optional. At the same time, the number of courses required for graduation was raised to 36, which is
the situation today.

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

“The opportunity to create, undertake, and complete a project of one’s own design, a project with legitimate and substantial academic
substance, is certainly a very academically sound idea,” said Dean of Honors Center Robert L. Avinger. “Whether and how you
can administer and control a program that provides that opportunity—this is the crucial question.”

Most of the work done in the Honors Center is similar to Extended Studies in that the student has a
great deal of input into his curriculum. “But Extended Studies is a different proposition from the Honors Center,” said Avinger.
“An Extended Studies is only 1/9 of a person’s workload, while many courses in the Honors Center are year-long, often
interdisciplinary programs.”

“We are able to concentrate Extended Studies on the Honors...student and his individual progress.” Avinger indicated that this organized administration
is probably not feasible for the present program of Extended Studies. But some means of keeping a tighter rein on
students working in Extended Studies is necessary, “because misuse of the program has occurred,” said Avinger. “All Extended Studies must
possess academic substance—I keep stressing that.” Avinger saw that highly motivated freshmen and sophomores would have difficulty pursuing a special
interest if Extended Studies were eliminated. “Maybe we could devise an Independent Project 95, patterned after Independent Studies 295, and
open it to younger students who are non-majors. Independent Project 95 would emphasize tighter control, closer supervision, and academic substance,”
he suggested.

Faculty voices pros/cons

“I see the need for an option to allow a student to design a program of study for himself and
to go in and carry it out,” said Professor of Psychology John D. Kelton. “The concept is sound—we require our
majors to pursue a special interest in independent studies, but (in psychology at least) few freshmen and sophomores are ready
to undertake an Extended Studies.

“In psychology—and I think this is true in some other disciplines—few freshmen come to Davidson with an adequate background.

“If the younger student expresses an interest in psychology, we encourage him to complete the first couple of introductory courses.

“It is important to get a grounding in an area before any Extended Studies are undertaken.

“A key problem with Extended Studies programs is...

Focus cont, page 7

Students cite reasons program rates merit

By ANN WICKER
Staff Writer

On the basis of random interviews, The Davidsonian found many upperclassmen are especially quick to defend the Extended Studies as
a valid approach “to unique learning experiences.” Most students with whom we talked, both those that have done such projects
and those that have not, are in favor of keeping such a program. Students in most cases are anxious to
do some outside activity to break the day-to-day academic monotony. One freshman expressed it this way, “I’d really be interested
in learning to shoe horses. All I know about the Extended Studies Program comes from what other students have told
me. I really don’t know where to begin to look for a sponsor.” A junior remarked, “Extended Studies works best
for the highly motivated student willing to go through the hassle of setting things up.” Another student put the situation
this way, “Usually the projects seemed to demand more time than it was worth to set up. That’s why I’m
going to try to take the photography seminar—it’s already set up and it will be a nice change.”

Several upperclassmen expressed their regret at not finding out until too late just how many opportunities Extended Studies offered. For
most juniors and seniors, their Extended Studies projects are limited to programs inside their major field. English majors, for example,
are required to take comprehensive exams. Math majors for their junior year all study the foundation principles and history of
mathematics. A senior math major then gets a choice to study something of interest to him from the math field.
Along these same lines, a Biology major remarked, “The Extended Studies Program gave me a chance to explore some of
the practical aspects of my major. I worked at a hospital, kept a journal, and wrote a paper about my
experiences.”

Several students also mentioned that Extended Studies could help relate your major to a field of interest related to the
major, but which Davidson does not offer as a regular part of the curriculum. One student expressed, “It might be
a good idea to go back to requiring the freshmen and sophomores to do Extended Studies projects. It is sometimes
hard to get motivated on this sort of thing, but I regret not doing anything about it when I had
the chance.”

Some of the students with whom we talked do feel that an Extended Studies is a little easier than a
regular course. “This school is hard enough and I don’t see any reason why you can’t take it a little
easier for one term. There’s nothing wrong with having some fun while you learn,” observed one senior.
