February 4, 1977

The Davidsonian

Athlete of the Week

JOHN GERDY displays Athlete-of-the-Week form in Monday night’s game action.

IMAC Report

Ta-Ta’s tell all.......

By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’s

We recently received a complaint from a reader regarding the lack of game scores in our column. Personally, we believe that nothing is less newsworthy than the actual score of an IMAC game, but we aim to please and are more than happy to provide some scores this week: 44-34, 30-22, 26-16.

We also have some games to report. The munchkins of Napoleonic Complex rejected Sloppy Seconds, 42-39. Napoleonic Complex was boosted by Clif “Flagrant Foul” Flynn’s twelve points, and the five fouls committed by Sloppy Seconds’ star Rick “Rack ’Em Up” Bateman.

By George proved once again they are not out to win ballgames. Manned by the likes of “By George” Strobelight, Fred Goodwinism, “Pele” Jackson, and Will “The Hook” Reilly, the Georgians were smushed by the Smidgets, 33-30. The Smidgets were paced by the dazzling shooting eyes of Dick Robbins and Phil Mottice, who scored ten and seven points respectively.

Mike “The Pork” Peskosky pumped twelve points into a balanced PDT #1 scoring attack that dawdled by Mike “McShootit” Schafer, 44-43. McShootit was periodically assisted by his back-up bunch, otherwise known as “In Your Eyes”.

SAE #1, behind the net burning bombs of Stan “The Clown” Brown and Dick “The Sick” Myrick, made an everyday occurrence out of Phi Phenomenon, 55-35. Phi Phenomenon, in reality a group of students from the Mt. Holly School for Derelict Young Men, was saved from disgrace only by Bo “The Slow” McGrath’s twelve points.

Girls’ basketball this week was only mildly more interesting. I Haven’ts and Iota Beta Theta (you are not fooling us), two female teams, engaged in a contest that saw the quick demise of the latter by the score 18-15. We do have to admit that it was a close game, and the scoring was balanced. Of the eighteen players present, ten scored no points.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

By STAN HALES
Staff Writer

For leading Davidson out of the cellar of the Southern Conference, in basketball games against East Carolina and William and Mary, sophomore guard John Gerdy has been named the Wildcat Athlete-of-the-Week.

With what Gerdy claims was “one of our best halves of basketball all year,” the Cats jumped to a halftime lead against the Pirates. However, because of offensive lapses in the second half, which have hurt the Cats all year, the Pirates gained control to win decisively. For the game, Gerdy led all scores with 21 points on 8-14 shooting from the field.

Cattes continue in spirited victories

By BRENDA BOYLE
Staff Writer

This past Monday, the women’s basketball team took on the UNCC ’49ers at UNCC. The Davidson Wildcattes emerged victoriously led by Beth Tanner’s scoring punch and a team effort under the boards.

The Wildcattes roared ahead within the first nine minutes by outscoring UNCC 18-0. They cooled off somewhat for the rest of the half, but at no time relinquished the lead. Due to the combined efforts of Beth...Tanner, Nancy Matheny, Donna Ferren, Cindy Morrison, Kat Morton, and Sarah Womack. Davidson led at the half 41-23, having shot 50 percent from the floor and 61 percent from the free throw line. The second half was not as explosive as the first, but Davidson stayed ahead so that everyone, even "the Cheerleaders," got in the game. Kat Morton continued to pull down the rebounds while Beth Tanner maintained her consistent scoring pace. The UNCC-ers were never able to recover from Davidson's opening scoring burst and succumbed to a score of 68-48. This win brings the Cattes' record to 7-5. The women are looking forward to this Friday’s contest with traditional rival Furman. The Davidson/Furman series has been closely contested the past two years. Last year Davidson won by a single point; the year before Furman prevailed by the same margin. Unfortunately, the game is away, but hopefully, this will not dampen the high spirits of the women. After the Furman game, there are five games remaining, only one of which is at home against Clemson on February 9 at 7 pm. The women will also compete in the State Tournament from February 23-26 at High Point.

Gerdy’s poise reflects Cat’s strength

However, despite this loss, Coach Pritchett has had nothing but praise for his young team and looks for continued improvement over the next few weeks. Said Gerdy, "All young teams have problems, but we're all hustling and working hard on both ends of the court. We haven't put it all together, but everyone on the team has been really unselfish and helped each other." Against the Indians of William and Mary, the Cats finally showed the Johnston Gym crowd what can happen when they put it all together. According to Gerdy, the Cats moved the ball really well on offense, which accounted for their excellent shooting percentage. For the game, Gerdy was 5-11 from the field, but more importantly, 13-15 from the line as the Indian press could only manage to foul the Cats. Said Pritchett, "Our boys really showed a lot of poise. William and Mary came out strong early in the second half, but we stayed in there and put it away." With the win over William and Mary and last night’s win over Citadel, the Cats' chances in the Southern Conference look much improved. By moving ahead of The Citadel, they don’t have to play defending conference champion VMI, currently 19-1. Crucial conference games still remain, and the Cats' improved play greatly increases the odds for further wins and a weaker foe in the first round of the tournament.

Sports Happenings

Friday, February 4, 1977
Women’s Basketball at Furman, Greenville, S.C. at 4 pm.
Swimming with the College of Charleston, Charleston, S.C. at 7 pm.
Wrestling with Hampden Sydney in the Johnston Gym at 7 pm.

Saturday, February 5, 1977
Swimming with The Citadel at Charleston, S.C. at 10 am.
Men’s Basketball with Notre Dame at Greensboro, N.C. at 4 pm (televised).

Monday, February 7, 1977
Women’s Basketball with Newberry College at Newberry, S.C., at 6:30 pm.

Tuesday, February 8, 1977
Swimming with Appalachian Univ. in Johnston Gym at 7 pm.

Wednesday, February 9, 1977
Women’s Basketball with Clemson at Johnston Gym at 7 pm.
Men's Basketball with N.C. State in Raleigh, N.C. at 7:30 pm.