——F4

The Davidsonian

April 15, 1977

Soccer springing:
Patton keys team

By GEORGE STROBEL
Staff Writer

Even without next year’s coach, Davidson’s soccer team is still very active. Davidson’s Club soccer team is doing well in the middle of this spring season.

Participation with the club soccer team is not mandatory, but many of next year’s key players practice regularly. The iron men of this year’s club soccer team are Dave Patton, Stott Wall, Jeff Jackson, Mike Heinig, and Kevin Robins.

Patton is the key figure on the team, scoring three of Davidson’s four goals in a recent 4-3 victory over Apollo soccer club in Charlotte.

The success of next year’s soccer team, though, depends on the selection of the new soccer-track coach by Athletic Director Cartmill.

Cartmill has stated that out of 45 applicants, he has narrowed it down to about three men. A final selection is expected in the next 2-3 weeks.

In any event, next year’s team is going to need a more balanced attack to take some of the pressure off Patton, who scored about half of Davidson’s goals last season.

To accomplish this, outgoing coach Chip Stone has worked with the team to perfect a set style of soccer. This would tend to create more team play rather than individual efforts.

Much to Coach Stone's credit is the fact that all four of Davidson’s goals last Saturday were scored off of set plays.

Patton should have plenty of help next year from D.C. Augustine, Joel Shirk, David Harrington, Doug Shuessler, Kevin Robins, and several good-looking recruits.

The team will still miss departing seniors Paul Parker, Gordon Maner, and John Swanson and the leadership they provided the team.

THE SOCCER TEAM in action last fall against Duke.

Athlete of the Week

Attitude drives Blinkhorn

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

For two years now, Rick Blinkhorn has stood out as a leader on the Davidson baseball team. However, when he first tried out last year, few people suspected that the sophomore would become what many claim is the best second-baseman in the Southern Conference. For this reason, he is our “athlete of the week.”

The reason few suspected Blinkhorn’s talent is that he did not even play baseball as a freshman. Since he is a chemistry major and plans to go to medical school, Blinkhorn wanted to establish himself academically. He seems to have done just that as he has an impressive 3.6 GPA and his prospects for medical school look good.

As a sophomore, Blinkhorn not only made the team but he became the starting second baseman for the Cats. Throughout the Southern Conference last year, there were several fine defensive second-basemen, and Blinkhorn was certainly one of them.

Even beyond his defensive prowess, Blinkhorn became the best hitting second baseman in the Conference. He finished the season with a .354 batting average, which placed him ninth among the best hitters in the Conference. Blinkhorn made the second team All-Southern Conference and it was a shock to everyone on the team, including Coach Palmer Muench, that he had not been named to the first team. He was also elected Most Valuable Player for the Cats in 1976.

This season, Blinkhorn’s defensive prowess has continually been called upon to knit the Cat infield together. He started off this season at second base, but has had to intermittently switch to short-stop whenever problems have arisen there. This ability to move around to different positions of the infield reflects Blinkhorn’s versatility as an infielder.

Blinkhorn’s hitting this season has not equaled last year’s, but it is still impressive. He’s hitting .278 at present, though for most of the season he has hit above .300.

His hitting has been impressive in that he leads the team in triples with three and is tied for doubles with four.

So it is clear that Blinkhorn is a leader for the Cats in all facets of the game. Part of his success must be accredited to his dedication and his enthusiasm. Though the Cats have been struggling this season, Blinkhorn has continually been enthusiastic about playing.

Coach Muench has been persistent in stressing the importance of confidence and aggressiveness in order to win. Blinkhorn has both of these qualities and is a team leader in instilling them in the other players.

Blinkhorn is very optimistic about next year’s season. “Since we had only three seniors this year and started four freshmen, we were lacking a great deal in experience. Next year we'll be experienced and that will give us a lot more confidence.” Blinkhorn believes next year he personally will have a lot better season.

“As a senior, I feel some academic pressures will be eased and that will give me the time I need to work towards improvement.”