Spencer Explains Budget Overruns

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor
and
LYMAN COLLINS
News Editor

Davidson College overdrew its budget in the 1977 fiscal year in two main areas: athletics and instructional budgets. Athletic overruns
totaled $110,000 and the overruns in the instructional area totaled $77,000.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. explained: “Almost every budget overruns, but the important thing is that you balance overruns
in some areas with underruns in others.”

He indicated further that the exceptionally large overruns were not totally unexpected, and the faculty had been informed of them
last year.

Spencer places partial blame for the large overruns in the athletic area on an unrealistically low budget.

“We were directed by the trustees to put big-time basketball back on the track. The budget allocated was not realistic
for what the trustees asked for.”

“We went way over on our recruiting budgets in football and basketball,” he added.

To remedy this problem, Spencer said that the 1977-78 athletic budget has been increased.

Spencer says it is difficult to pinpoint where the overruns in the instructional budget occurred.

He explains the athletic budget overruns for big-time basketball because it will possibly be a money-making proposition. “The trustees have
directed us to put our money in the front end and see whether it will pay off.”

Despite the overruns, the athletics budget makes up only nine percent of the College’s total operating budget.

Spencer declined to speculate on what percentage basketball drew from the total athletic budget, which was $671,781.03, but he admitted
it was substantial.

“This figure includes many things,” Spencer explained: “all the coach’s salaries, secretarial help, publicity, recruiting, equipment, etc. So you can
see it is a pretty big operation down there.”

Income received from the Wildcat Club, which is independent of the College, is not included in the school’s athletic budget.
Most of this money goes to supplement the monies awarded to football players on the basis of need. But all
sports at Davidson receive some funding from the club.

In the past, Davidson gave 52 full football scholarships. When this number was cut, the Wildcat Club decided to help
those players who demonstrate a need.

Gift Income Defrays Education Costs

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Staff Writer

While the total cost of a Davidson education in 1976-77 per student was $6,500, the comprehensive fee to students and
parents was $4,390.

Where does the remaining $1,942 per student (almost 30 percent of the total cost) come from?

This difference is made up by annual gifts from alumni, parents, friends, corporations, and foundations, as well as endowment and
trust income.

Soliciting gifts and other types of income “is a very integral part of any private college’s activity,” notes Vice-President for
Development Duane A. Dittman.

“Fortunately for Davidson, this process is not a question of survival as it is for some other colleges.”

Raising funds is a coordinated effort directed at alumni, parents, and friends. There are approximately 11,500 living Davidson alumni.

The College has several hundred “friends” on its mailing list.

Dittman estimates that roughly 40 percent of alumni, parents, and friends give money gifts to the College.

In fiscal year 1977, the total gift income was $1,600,585. Alumni giving ($527,531) was the largest source of this income,
comprising nearly 33 percent of the total.

Bequests accounted for 20 percent of total giving, while corporations gave gifts amounting to 13 percent of the total.

Churches gave $128,732 or 8 percent of the total gift income.

Other sources were parents, friends, foundations, and the Duke Endowment.

Funds from these and other sources defray educational costs and make a Davidson education possible for many students whose families
could not afford it otherwise. Most schools with which Davidson competes academically cannot offer their students a comparable financial bargain.

Continued generous giving and income from the endowment also means that Davidson does not have to borrow money (and therefore
pay interest).

When asked about the $35 million fund-raising project

[See MONEY, page 2]

Does Your Tuition Dollar Go?

Have you ever wondered how much it cost you or your parents each time you cut a class? Excluding the
cost of books, each class period costs the student seven dollars.

This year the Davidson comprehensive fee is $4,665, which includes $3,050 for tuition. The rest of the fee consists of
room, board, laundry, and other miscellaneous costs.

Each student’s tuition goes into a general fund from which the college draws its operating budget. The operating budget for
1977-78 will be approximately $7 million.

The chart at the left illustrates all the sources the college uses in drawing up the budget and the percentage
of each source.

The chart at the right illustrates the expenditures.

Student services include the Dean of Students Office, registrar, infirmary, and the counseling center.

“General institution” refers to a fund that is commonly used by all the college community, including the annual audit, non-academic
data processing, commencement, convocations, etc.

The contingency fund is kept in reserve for any unforeseen expenses that might arise during the year.

The operating budget does not include several auxiliary or outside functions such as athletic contests, the bookstore, the laundry, the
guest house and dorm operations, summer camps, all of which are generally self-supporting or funded directly from the comprehensive fee.

“We are never going to make any money on football,” Spencer commented, “but I like our football as it is:
low pressure, a pleasant Saturday afternoon for friends, alumni, and students.”

Spencer detailed the benefits big-time basketball brought to the college. He pointed out that during the height of Davidson’s basketball
success, the team brought in enough money to pay for itself.

But he added, “It is more than just money. The Trustees

THE ATHLETIC budget overran its funds by $110,000.
[Irv Wilson]

Expenditures
