Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Maw ae 1977 i aoe - Cc By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

Summer fever is beginning to take its toll on Bad Bernard and Hogman as we would like very much to
get the hell out of Davidson. Bernie doesn’t do much besides polish his "Best to write about this week" and
has come up with a few noteworthy items. Mike Knowles set a new doughnut-eating record when he downed twelve of
the little jewels last Thursday morning at Coffee and Doughnuts. Rob Murray polished off ten but could not top Knowles'
deep stomach trophy and practice rolling his dice for the backgammon tourney (he’s almost learned how to read them). Hogman
has been out trying to round up something. The first presentation of the Saga of Man was given last Sunday
and we still haven't figured out why anybody would do that. We were moved by your Dean of Beer’s opinion
that just because we see a dean in the Seay, there are reasons why. Because Siglinda Steinfiller, who graduated from
Remedial Beer Drinking, said so.

QUESTIONS:

Q: 1. The best water for beer comes from:
a) Big Duck Mountain.
b) Underground from Tijuana.
c) A store in Macon, Ga.
d) None of the above

A: (d) No matter what you hear about "best" waters, virtually all brewers filter and further purify their water. But
Schlitz doesn’t stop there. They filter their water and then filter it again. So when they're through, it’s purer than
the purest spring water.

Q: 2. Klages and Firlbeck III are:
a) Famous beer drinking songs.
b) "I Left My Shoes in Heidelberg."
c) Names of the world’s largest unknown slinger.
d) Expensive barleys.

A: (d) Schlitz blends Klages and Firlbeck III barleys with the variety most brewers use because they believe it gives
their beer superior flavor.

Siglinda Steinfiller, Dean of Beer, is responsible for the taste of the beer.

Q: 3. Hops are notorious for:
a) Their ease of intelligence.
b) Always getting to work late.
c) Losing their flavor.
d) Being tenacious to keep fresh.

A: (d) Hops are one of the best beer ingredients. That's why Schlitz refrigerates their hops. So they are as
fresh at brewing time as they are at harvest time.

Q: 4. The best adjunct to beer is:
a) Rice.
b) Corn.
c) Either rice or corn.
d) What's an adjunct?

A: (c) Every American brewer uses rice or corn to lighten the flavor of their beer. This is called an
adjunct. But Schlitz organizes their Lager so they’re never at the mercy of an unfavorable crop. And neither is the
taste of their beer.

Q: 5. The biggest misconception about beer is:
a) It’s made from hops.
b) It’s made from barley.
c) It’s made from water.
d) To make beer taste right consistently, you need to control the fermentation process.

A: (d) To make beer taste right consistently, you need to control the fermentation process.

Q: 6. Chill-Lagering is:
a) A method of cooling beer.
b) A method of storing beer.
c) A method of brewing beer.
d) When Schlitz ages beer, they chill it to add smoothness.

A: (d) When Schlitz ages beer, they chill it to add smoothness.

Q: 7. A mini-brewery is:
a) A small brewery.
b) A brewery that makes small batches of beer.
c) Schlitz has a mini-brewery where they test new brewing techniques.
d) A brewery that makes miniature beers.

A: (c) Schlitz has a mini-brewery where they test new brewing techniques.

SPECIAL BONUS QUESTION:

Q: True or false, the one word for beer is:
a) Carrying some in your pocket is good luck.
b) It is good for hernias.
c) It was responsible for the fall of the Roman Empire.
d) To ferment beer, all you have to do is drop it in the vat.

A: (d) To ferment beer, all you have to do is drop it in the vat. The yeast is distributed
during fermentation. That’s why Schlitz stirs in their yeast as part of their fermentation process.Popular German country and western b)
band Scanthoniden winter sport played without clothes.
c) A new ethnic TV comedy about the owner of an ice cube (i Wiley Sealy keiae Gad thes its
called Chil Lagering. And it's what makes Schlitz ee -brewery is a) Hidden in a basement somewhere in Greektown.
b) The result of trying to make Broken bare Fant the beer capital of the world.
c) The right way to pretest beer ingredients.
Both (a) and (c) test-brew the quality of the ingredients before they go into Schlitz—before they go into Duffelbrau.

Presto’s Grill cooks Porky Pig enough to buy Mench a joke book so he can entertain us next time. The
Softball Tourney got underway last Monday, and by Tuesday evening only one of three previously undefeated teams remained that way.
KA #1, behind the blazing fastball of Mouse Sellers, stunned last week's #2 team, Jungle Queen, by a score of
6-4. Porky Pig and the Quarter Pounders were knocked from the ranks of the undefeated by the long balls of
Presto’s Grill, 6-4. Baby Rick’s Bar and Grille crushed the Nothings of Sigma Phi 22-7 and then stepped into the
double elimination round by frying the Brewers 14-9.

Your Face, after being dumped from our #1 spot, reached the quarterfinals by nipping the Longest Yard 9-8 and Rock
and Roll Sunoco 20-17. The Gozinyas struck out Bill Kelly and the rest of Wood’s Hole 9-0 before abusing Charlie's
Angels 16-3. Off Again tuned up in defense of its crown by beating the Red Sux 10-0. They were saved
from having to take on Bad Bernard’s Cannonballs because of the Basketball banquet and stepped into the quarterfinals by default.
The FIJI’s, the only non-top ten team in the quarterfinals, cleaned the Goodwinites 12-11 and humiliated the Bum Clevers 16-4.
The SPE’s rallied to beat the SAE’s 8-7 and must beat the undefeated Flaming A’s for the right to qualify
for double elimination.

The tourney also marked the end of the fabulous career of the King of the Rear Ends, Embonite Peter Green.
PG’s fellow rear ends fell to the Bum Cleavers 17-16 in a heartbreaker marking the end of the first great
phase of EMBO sports history. Peter was unavailable for any comment as he had to go to the prison to
visit his mom. However, in honor of his illustrious career, Peter is our IMAC Athlete of the Week and will
receive an 8 x 10 glossy of Bad Bernard’s moon.

WHEN IT'S RIGHT, YOU KNOW IT.
A: False. There is no beer called Duffelbrau.

If you think our Terrific Ten have become the Sports Illustrated of IMAC sports as every one of our number
one teams gets beat right after we rank them number one, you should look into turkey ranching.

This week’s Terrific Ten:
1. Off Again
2. Flaming A’s
3. Gozinyas
4. Presto’s Grille
5. Your Face
6. Baby Rick’s Bar & Grille
7. KA #1
8. Jungle Queen
9. Cannonballs
10. Porky Pig and Quarter Pounders

The Bad Bernard and Berta backgammon pairings are up so contestants better check the door of Little 104 for your
opponent. Until next time, shalom.
