The Davidsonian IMAC Report
September 16, 1977

Bernie & Hogman pick the weak from the meek
By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

Greetings Peons and welcome back to this intolerable place. To all the freshmints and womints who are not familiar with
the legend of Bad Bernard (as in King) and Hogman (as in Razorback), it is time you learn. Seminars dealing
with “The Evolution and Socialization of Bernie and Hogman” will be given daily in the 900 room by Dr. George
“Three yards and a cloud of dust” Abernathy. Refreshments will be provided.

Now that the leaves have turned a golden brown and the freshmints know where the Davidson library is, we are
faced with the annual problem of deciding how to spend these clear, crisp autumn afternoons. For years students have solved
this dilemma by migrating to the bush country of the Davidson campus to partake in that fall phenomenon flickerball. But
this year the mass movement was almost squelched by the “little Napoleon of Davidson intramurals,” Sterling Martin. Elevated from his
position of Track Coach to Phys. Ed. director, Martin proposed what he considered to be innovations of our sacred pastime.

One of Martin's aides described the New Deal in the following manner: “Basically Bernie, what Sterling had in mind was
to simplify the game so that everyone got a chance to play and officials would not be hampered by technical
rules the game now utilizes.

“He was going to do this by dividing the student body into two teams and pitting those two against each
other five days a week for the whole term on field number two. Each team would get one down to
score and fifteen minutes to draw up a play. Thirty-minute games, no technical yardage problems for officials, and total student
involvement — personally, I thought they were good proposals.”

Right. Fortunately, that great Flickerball god in the sky saw fit to prevent the change and the tradition still lives.
As always, Bad Bernard and Hogman are going to keep our accurate if not exact top-ten running for flickerball season.
In order for this top ten to be credible, Bernie and Hogman spent all of August going to the various
summer camps and came up with the following scouting report:

SAE:
Strengths: Good returning nucleus from last year’s team which came close to taking it all. Led by receiver Stan Brown
and defensemen Jim Richards, Carl McPhail, and Adrian Wilson, the E’s appear to have a strong foundation upon which to
build a winning team.
Weaknesses: No proven tailback and an invariable urge to shag with Queenies during the big games.
Prediction: 9-1-0

KA:
Strengths: 39 returning lettermen from last year’s championship team. A rugged defense, a consistent offense, and a 45-page playbook make
this team a definite contender. Stars include Barnhill, Boswell, Bell,Ballard, Sellers, McDade, Williams, and Flowers.
Weaknesses: A somewhat nonchalant attitude toward the game. Inability to get up for the big ones.
Prediction: 9-1-0

Macfleet and Stuff:
Strengths: Good returning nucleus from last year including Stroud, Ratliff, McKinley, and Carter. Preseason performance against Old Men was impressive
and showed the team was well-conditioned and rarin’ to go.
Weaknesses: Had to play preseason games under international rules and may have trouble adapting back to Davidson style.
Prediction: 8-2-0

Bongs:
Strengths: Experience counts and the Bongs have four-year lettermen in Justice, Swaim, Reynold, Boney, Bogie, Darden, and Young. Also, several
players return from JYA, including the incomparable Monsieur Bondy.
Weaknesses: Several players tend to get too up for games. Loss of such serious-minded players as Morrow and Lovett will
hurt in the stretch.
Prediction: 8-2-0

War Kiwis:
Strengths: Everybody returning from last year’s freshman hall which did as well as any freshman hall has ever done. Key
players include Brown, Hull, Holliday, Smith, Jordan, and Haynes.
Weaknesses: Inability to recognize that freshman year is over and that sophomores no longer need hall counseling.
Prediction: 8-2-0

Old Men:
Strengths: Team contains one former all Southern Conference star (Shi), one former All-American (Rogers), and the head of the physical
education department (Martin, who can do any damn thing he wants to). With a minister on the team, there is
also that little extra edge from that great press box in the sky.
Weaknesses: An unexplainable desire to put nine men on the field when only seven are supposed to be there. Continuous
penalties for too many men on the field make officiating Old Men games difficult.
Prediction: 7-3-0

FIJI:
Strengths: An offensive combination known as “Winkin’ (Winkle), Blinkin’ (Blinkhorn), and Bog (Boggus). Favorable home schedule developed by IMAC head
and FIJI great Graeme Thomson doesn’t hurt.
Weaknesses: Inability to play flickerball and lack of talent.
Prediction: 7-3-0

Johnny Castleberry and the East Harlem Whizz Kids:
Strengths: Great combination of independents and frat men give this team a social balance unlike any other. Murray, Sherwood, and
Douglass give the team suave and charm while Downs, Coffey, Collins, Lasley, Griner, and Knowles give it the independence necessary
for championships.
Weaknesses: Abundance of talent squeezes such good players as Knowles from any playing time. A too serious approach to the
game could cause tension down the line.
Prediction: 7-3-0

SPE’s:
Strengths: Rick Kelly returns to spearhead an always tough Sig Ep team. Look for them to either run or throw.
Weaknesses: Insatiable desire for many team members to be cheerleaders makes it difficult for the team to perform.
Prediction: 6-4-0

1st Cannon:
Strengths: Two blondes and a brunette.
Weaknesses: A noted absence of available Friday and Saturday nights.
Prediction: 36-24-35

All right you clowns, go out and win a few for the Gipper. Later. Lid.

Your Gift Headquarters
“Gifts for all ages and all occasions”
Hours: 10—5:30 pm Monday—Saturday
Plaza Shopping Center
Mooresville
663-1503
