——8 Recycling Programme
By DAVE KELLER
Executive Editor

Plans to begin an ongoing paper-recycling program at Davidson have been halted for the moment pending the removal of several obstacles and the securing of additional help. Aimed primarily at recycling the enormous number of newspapers thrown away each day on campus, the program is the brainchild of senior Steve Holman.

Holman had planned to begin collection of paper next week before becoming aware of the multitude of problems which now confront him. “Collection is the first problem,” Holman said. “I had planned to have containers for newspapers on each hall, which would be emptied about once a week.” He was informed by the Physical Plant of the fact that such containers would have to be emptied every day to avoid becoming a fire hazard. At this point, there are not enough people involved in the project to allow such frequent pick-ups.

Another problem is storage of collected material. “Right now there is nowhere on campus that we could store paper,” Holman said. “We would have to have some sort of fireproof container made out of galvanized metal or the like.” A possible storage is a tin building behind an old cotton mill in town, used now by the town to store glass for recycling. According to Holman, Mayor Tom Sadler is checking the availability of this shed for use by the College.

Perhaps the biggest problem facing Holman is finding a way to get paper to a recycling company. “Chesapeake Paper Company in Charlotte will take the paper, but they'll only send out a truck if we have six tons collected,” Holman said. “Mayor Sadler asked a local man who has a trailer if he would carry it in, but he just laughed and said it was uneconomical.” Holman said that he felt it would be pointless to waste lots of energy carrying the paper into Charlotte in small amounts and that the only feasible way would be to find a way to store and transport large loads.

Holman’s project is, at this point, basically a one-man crusade. “N.C. PIRG was originally interested in the idea, but now they don’t seem real enthused,” he said, “although they have pledged their support in one way or another.” He emphasized that a lot of help from individuals is necessary if the project is to get off the ground. “As it stands now, we'll probably have to have a volunteer on each hall willing to take collected papers downstairs every day. The papers could be placed in a central spot in each dorm where I could pick them up daily.” Another idea he suggested was for everyone interested in recycling their waste paper to keep it in their rooms and to take it to a central point periodically. “I’m operating from the premise that few people are going to want to put a lot of effort into recycling, so there are going to have to be some people really willing to help,” he added.

The Town of Davidson currently recycles glass but is not involved with paper and aluminum. There are collection bins for glass in the alley behind Jackson Cleaners; currently the FIJIs help with the crushing of this glass. On campus, though, glass and aluminum recycling are not presently planned. “The Physical Plant office says that the collection of glass and aluminum on halls poses a health hazard,” says Holman. “Also, there isn’t enough volume of aluminum to make it worthwhile, and it’s very hard anymore to distinguish between all-aluminum and steel-aluminum blend cans.” Glass recycling could possibly be undertaken in the future.Holman said. There is also the possibility of a plant opening in Charlotte which will recycle all types of beverage cans. "There are so many problems to recycling now," said Holman. "Ideally recycling should be a basic part of all solid waste removal." Holman expressed hopes of convincing the College to make recycling more of a part of its disposal system, "especially considering the amount of paper thrown away each day," Holman said. "The ideal situation would be a recycling of all paper and returnable bottles for all beverages, but right now the economic barriers are too great for these conditions to come about. What we’ve got to do is simply start thinking in different terms."

By ANN GARNER
FOCUS Editor

After instituting the paper cup campaign, a few involved students asked Director of Dining Services, Ron Scott, to channel the money saved in the change from plastic to paper cups. The recipient of this money will be CROP, a national organization which is part of Church World Service. CROP, which sends most of its aid to Latin America and Africa, has one of the lowest overheads in relation to other charitable organizations and was begun after World War II as a community hunger appeal to send food to war-ravaged Europe. "Since then it has spread out," said Dave Keller, who heads CROP with Steve Coffey, "direct relief is only part of the total budget which donates seeds, provides technical consultation and family planning, and sends blankets and clothing, as well as emergency disaster relief."

"CROP at Davidson manifests itself in a weekly 'share it with your neighbor' meal on Tuesday from 12:30-1:30 in the 900 Room," continued Keller. ARA Slater provides the food for these meals free of charge and the 75 cent charge to students is sent to the Carolina CROP office. CROP also sponsors the Spring Hunger Symposium featuring a keynote speaker and a panel discussion or debate which focus upon the problems of world hunger, according to Keller. "We also sponsor 'fast days' throughout the year where participants give to CROP the money that they would normally spend for food." Keller added, "CROP operates a limited program in the United States; and although the main emphasis is on international relief, it’s just not an overseas thing."

Support gets obstacles

Opinion of pollution problem.

Plastic: The bane of Mankind
by STEVE HOLMAN
Staff Writer

Since World War II, the petrochemical industry has disgorged 22.4 billion pounds of plastic in the great wave of highly polluting technology which followed that war. All modern plastics, like the synthetic fibers of your leisure suit, are composed of man-made, unnatural polymers. They are thus wholly foreign to the ecosystem and nondegradable: every plastic article remains, in some form, somewhere on the earth. A plastic can of course be burned, but this poses a serious air pollution problem. This huge onslaught of solid waste is dangerously taxing over one-half of our cities’ waste disposal capacities. Not only will burned plastic add to the air ordinary products of combustion, but in some cases will release hydrochloric acid, hydrogen cyanide, or phosgene, the latter of which was used in World War I as a poisonous gas.

As well as being environmentally dangerous, plastic’s production by the petrochemical industry uses vast quantities of energy. The process of producing plastic is very energy-intensive in itself; moreover, plastic itself is a petroleum product. The result is that the petrochemical industry uses well over one quarter of all energy utilized by all the nation’s industries. Although the plastics industry is very inefficient in its use of fuel and capital, it is remarkably inefficient in its use of human labor. Plastics are profitable because labor is held to a minimum; indeed, the switch from organic compounds to plastic has cost many jobs.