The Davidsonian
February 11, 1977

Long to finish yearbook, spring delivery expected
By EMILY MASON
Staff Writer

The 1975 Quips and Cranks is to be completed before the end of this school year, according to Director of Alumni Relations Zachary Long. Long was requested to take over the editorship of Quips and Cranks by the Dean of Students and the College Business Manager in September of 1975 when Carroll Ensley, the student editor, left the college without completing the job.

"I was able to use two layout pages from Carroll Ensley’s (work)," said Long, "the athletic scores." Out of the book’s 256 pages, 59 remain to be turned in to the Delmar Printing Company. "A lot of what’s left is copy," said Long, "including the twenty introductory pages and the 23 closing pages and directory. Sixteen Social Section pages also remain to be finished." Some work has been done on all of these outstanding pages according to Long, who estimated that every two-page print represents four hours of work.

"I’ve been 90 percent honest (with pictures of people)," said Long. "Almost all student informals were taken that year (1974-75)." With the exception of one campus shot, "no pictures from former books" were used. Problems with obtaining pictures added to the delay in publication. "I asked the fraternities and eating houses for pictures last spring; it’s taken them nine months (to comply)," continued Long. The absence of pictures from the yearbook for both live activities and the Artists Series are "glaring omissions" according to Long. Additionally, "a number of organizations had no pictures made" and will therefore not be included in the book. However, the Drama Department "very thoughtfully recorded its activities," and there is "good sports coverage."

The yearbook’s original 308 pages have been reduced to the present 256 in an attempt to remain within the publication budget. "All work (for the yearbook) is being done in spare time," since Long’s priorities lie in Alumni Office work and events. But it is just a matter of time now, "my time," said Long.

The Reverend David Read Staley Lecturer

Course evaluation booklet debuts
By TRACY UPCHURCH
Staff Writer

Dana English (Carnegie-Little), chairman of the Course Evaluation Committee, announced the publishing of her committee’s first booklet. The Course Evaluation Booklet will be available in the Dean of Students Office Friday morning. The booklet will only contain the results of evaluation questionnaires for fall courses. They will be distributed to students’ rooms by Wednesday.

English said the primary use of the booklet, until next fall, will be to evaluate professors instead of courses. After Spring Break the committee will begin work on the evaluation of winter courses. A member of the committee has been assigned to each department to get a brief summary of every department course. The goal of the committee is to have one booklet containing evaluations for all courses offered each year and course summaries. The 1500 copies of the present booklet were printed.published at a cost of $100. SGA President Thom Young stressed the importance of regular attendance of senators at the Senate meetings. The present meeting time has caused conflicts for some members. The time will be reconsidered Spring Term. The Senate By-Laws provide for the replacement of any senator who is absent from four of eight meetings. Young, supported by Percy Badham (Belk), criticized the habit of some senators leaving the meetings early. He asked the Senate to “give me the time, give yourselves the time.”

John Griffith appeared before the Senate to offer ideas for improving the Infirmary. Stating that the magazines were very old there, he suggested collecting recent editions from students to replace the old ones. He said there is a need by students in the Infirmary for a carpool. People are also needed to make daily Post Office trips for sick students.

The Senate is organizing rides to and from the airport after exams and spring break. All students who wish to have a ride are requested to call the Union Desk and leave their name, room and phone number, and time that they would like to be at the airport. The cost will be $2 each way. The rides from the airport to school after break will leave from in front of the Eastern Baggage Claim Doors and will leave every two hours on March 6 or at times when there is a greater need. Rides from the school to the airport will be arranged in the same manner and will leave from behind Belk Dormitory.

Nouses deny negligence [Continued from page 1]

at SAE and we had as many as we could,” he explained. He figured that all of the first choices were invited and about half of the second choices ate at SAE during January. “Toward February people didn’t show up. They just stopped coming,” he said. Bryant did admit that first choices were encouraged somewhat more because lists notifying them of their invitation to eat at SAE were posted earlier than the second choice lists. “We didn’t make as much of an effort for people we’d never heard of before.” He emphasized, however, that no one was discouraged from eating at SAE. “From my point of view we make money on these guys. There’s no point in discouraging them. There are a lot of people that come down that we really like that we wouldn’t have known any other way,” he said. “Everybody that wanted to eat at SAE got to eat as far as we know,” Bryant added. During the coming week, all freshmen who did not get to eat at their first or second choice houses are to be invited down before Thursday.

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY FILMS