September 10, 1977

Zimmerman speaks on new position

By CATHERINE LANDIS
Editor

Dr. Price Zimmerman arrived in Davidson on July 5 to begin work as Vice President of Academic Affairs. With him,
he brought educational experience at Williams, Oxford, Harvard, and the University of Florence, thirteen years of teaching experience, expertise in
expeditionary climbing and photography, and 100 cases of books. He also came with a unique eloquence which enables him to
speak at times like a scholar, at times like a poet. With characteristic calm, he spoke with The Davidsonian on
his new job, on Davidson, and on himself.

One of the immediate problems on his mind is the development of a standardized hiring procedure for new faculty. He
comments, "What we want is a set of procedures by which the needs of the college commitment will be translated
into procedures of hiring." "The end," he continues, "is the impact the faculty member will have on the college. Any
teacher must be judged by both students and faculty. The most important aspect is teaching effectiveness. Whether he is stimulating
and exciting must be determined by students. What he teaches must be evaluated by faculty colleagues."

"A good procedure calls for the combination judgment of students and faculty."

Zimmerman holds a similar philosophy on the evaluation of faculty after they have been hired. "Faculty evaluation," he says, "calls
for some procedure which is judged by everyone to be fair to all." He commented on SGA President Thom Young’s
concept of a dualistic type of evaluation, whereby a course evaluation would be separated from the evaluation of professor competence,
which would remain confidential. "It sounds like a good system. The course evaluation would give a point of view about
the college which would be helpful for those selecting courses. At this point, it looks as if such a guide
would have to be student-run." He added, "This system still doesn't solve the problem of student input on the confidential
faculty evaluation."

Zimmerman suggested a third evaluation form be constructed which would be given back to the professors to help them in
designing their courses.

---

Subcommittee to evaluate Patterson Court regulations

By PHILIP DUNCAN
News Editor

A subcommittee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life will soon begin its review of the regulations which guide
the operation of Patterson Court. Chemistry professor Felix A. Carroll, chairman of the Rules Subcommittee, recognizes that most at Davidson
are interested in the future of the social system on Patterson Court and knows that many have strong opinions about
the current rules under which the Court operates.

Join Us!

Interested in working for The Davidsonian? Positions are open in all areas of the newspaper--we need writers, photographers, typists, proofreaders,
business and administrative assistants, etc. No previous newspaper experience is required to work with The Davidsonian. If you want to
get involved and are willing to devote some time to the newspaper (you determine how much), come to our meeting
Monday, September 12 at 7 pm in the Conference Room on the second floor of the Union.

He promises that the Rules Subcommittee will approach their work in a "logical, methodical" fashion, gathering facts and information from
all sides before reaching any conclusions. Issues involving Patterson Court’s rules stirred campus-wide controversy on several occasions last school year.
In one instance, a group of female students and a coed group of freshmen competed for the right to establish
an eating club in the then-vacant Rusk House for this school year. The Council on Campus and Religious Life conducted
hearings and eventually gave Rusk House to the women’s group, but also recommended that specific guidelines for establishing a house
should be included in the Court’s regulations to handle similar situations in the future.

Later in the year, Greg Anders '77, a member of one of the on-campus national fraternities, submitted a proposal that
would allow the on-campus nationals to operate a traditional rush, bid, and pledge system basically independent from the eating clubs’
self-selection system. The Anders’ proposal...drew a flurry of reaction—several students submitted competing proposals. The Patterson Court Council (which contains two
members from each house on the Court) approved the Anders proposal in a controversial vote derided by some PCC members
as unrepresentative of the opinion of all the students eating on the Court. Under current Court rules, a freshman is
allowed to self-select into any house on the Court. The rules, however, are a step from reality, because women seldom
self-select into the national fraternities, and no men have signed to eat at Rusk House. Another issue is that some
houses “encourage” or “discourage” potential members to a greater degree than other houses.

After an organizational meeting next week, the Subcommittee will schedule an open meeting to give interested students an opportunity to
express their views. Then the subcommittee will divide into small work groups to study three specific areas. Those areas are:
1) Writing rules for establishing new houses on Patterson Court, 2) Establishing a procedure for transfer of students among houses
and for operation of a waiting list for entry into full houses.

He says, “As a teacher I was always interested in what was interesting to the class.” About all forms of
evaluation Zimmerman commented, “What is important to determine is if the professor is successful, excited, and prepared. Teaching requires imagination;
to imagine what it is like to be approached by the material for the first time.”

On the topic of Extended Studies, Zimmerman hopes the faculty and EPC will clarify the situation soon. His feelings on
Extended Studies, as he puts it, “are in the middle.” “I think at a college like Davidson there ought to
be an opportunity for individual work. I've given extended studies and it’s fun. That’s what it should be. It is
a joint venture where the professor and student make a commitment to each other.” “On the other side,” he continues,
“I do not think a course is necessary for anything and everything. Basically what the college should do is provide
a systematic way which will enable a student to study on his own later.” As to his feeling about how
Extended Studies should be run he says, “I think it was poor to require them. I think there should be
an element of flexibility.” “From my standpoint at this particular moment what I am concerned with is faculty time. You
could be teaching 20 students in the hour that you teach one. The pressures on the faculty members are already
great.”

He turned from campus affairs to Zimmerman the man. Not only is he a teacher, scholar, and administrator, he is
an expert expeditionary climber. “The first climb is an interesting experience. On a slope of 40 degrees with a thousand
feet of space below your feet, you wonder what’s in this for me. Some people come down and decide they’re
not going back. The others...well, it grows on you; you get hooked. It’s tiring, but you can’t wait for the
next climb.” Speaking like a poet he continues, illustrating his words with handiwork from another hobby, photography. “Climbing gives rewards
no other sport has in terms of scenery, the beauty of the light and sunshine on a glacier, endless space,
standing on a rock and having the clouds roll in below you, seeing a sunset above those clouds.” He added,
smiling, “There’s a lot of suffering too, so it appeals to your masochism.” “Then there’s the companionship. You learn to
work on a team where your life is dependent upon the relationship with and skill of your teammates.”

Zimmerman’s academic specialty is Renaissance History. He is now doing research on the 16th-century historian Paolo Giovio. He visits Florence
frequently “because the libraries and archives there are just what I need.” Why such an obscure study? “When you are
looking for new fields to till...”

AND THE WORLD TURNS... [Bill Billings]

[see FOCUS, pages 4 & 5] [see SUBCOM..., page 2]
