September 30, 1977

Queen for a day is not worth insult

The Homecoming Queen contest is a sexist institution twenty years behind the times. Although the proponents of the contest insist
that the winner is the Homecoming representative, that representative must be female. They have conceded to allow for a male
representative to be selected if the students wish it. But they insist the male be in addition to the Queen,
who must be female (that’s not what I hear on 42nd street, but...). So, essentially we will have either 1)
only a female Homecoming Queen or 2) a female Homecoming Queen plus a male Homecoming representative. Their solution does not
correct the sexist discrimination. They insist on seeing a row of pretty women parading before them on Homecoming Day. And
regardless of these rationalizations that the Homecoming Queen is not judged solely on beauty, initial nominations reflect the high school
practice of putting the pictures of pretty girls up on the wall from which the football team chooses.

Like I said, the contest is twenty years behind the times. Last year at Chapel Hill three males and a
large Grade A farm egg ran for Homecoming Queen. The egg won. The contest does not belong in the 1970s.
Even many eating houses feel the contest is childish. Some nominated a candidate simply because they did not want to
be the only house on the court that dissented. What happened to guts? What happened to principles? How can a
college which professes to uphold the principles of equality allow such a sexist institution to exist? How can a college
which aims to broaden the mind support the American sickness that youth and beauty are the true values? If we
must have a Homecoming Queen, The Davidsonian nominates Zack Long.

Self-selection needs immediate action

We are disappointed the Council on Campus and Religious Life did not make a more definite statement on self-selection. We
applaud their stand on self-selection, but wonder why they stopped there. An issue as controversial as this one deserves immediate
action. Too many people are too hesitant to make a stand for reasons only they know. It is irresponsible and
unnecessary to allow the present policy to remain unchanged through this year’s selection process.

Election results

Results of this week’s SGA Elections:
Freshman Class Senators—Jim Bailey, Peggy Britt, Ray Craven.
Belk Senators—John Jackson, Laura Michael, Jimmy Peters.
Cannon Senator—Julia Pidgeon.
Little Senator—Nancy Catron.
Richardson Senator—Jim Tholen.
Sentelle Senator—Randy Haynes.
Watts Senator—Newman Yielding.
Off-Campus Senators—Bruce Brown, Clark Candler, Adrian Wilson.
Belk RHC—Yvonneda Cunningham, Ada Egerton, Mark George.
Richardson RHC—Pete Neefus.

The Davidsonian

Catherine LarigiRiiis .......... Editor
Philip Duncan & Lyman Collins .......... News Editors
Charles Erwin & Nancy McNair .......... Features Editors
Jim Entwistle & Bill Barnett .......... Editorial Page Editors
Dennis McLawhorn & Marshall Waddell .......... Sports Editors
Managing Editor ..........
Photography Editor ..........
Production Manager ..........
Business Manager ..........
Advertising Manager ..........Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

at hea sey a alt Ota Cartoonist pole GYOW eo) | ae ee ee eT Photographer eg CET La) JARRE.
SPRRE rat ae or OA CRORE BORO nr a ee Focus Editor. Published weekly during the school year by students
of Davidson College. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036. Address all correspondence to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036. Yearly subscription rate: $6.00.

Opin

There’s more to your education than books

By ELINORE MARSH

Someone writes this article every year in the hope that Davidson students will benefit. Traditionally, however, it appears too late
in the year to affect those who need it most. So while we are still orienting or reorienting ourselves, I'll
try again. (Never say die.)

The main point of the column can be expressed in a relative truth found in the axiomatic statement, “All work
and no play make Jack and Jill a dull boy and girl.” As college students we are in the best
of all possible worlds having a great deal of freedom and not too much responsibility. We are surrounded by at
the minimum vaguely intelligent, open-minded people. After graduation we will have all of the responsibility for ourselves, only limited freedom
and people with whom we work—not necessarily even vaguely intelligent—around us. You can of course, come from high school, memorize
your textbooks and move on to the wide world having had very little fun and lots of self-inflicted pain. Then
you can get a job and work the rest of your life. Since this last is one of the world’s
necessary evils, devoting yourself strictly to your studies while at Davidson can be an ultimate waste of time.

Understand, I am not trying to disparage formal education. Right now that is why we’re here—fine. Get as much out
of it as possible but don’t kid yourselves either. It’s not all in the books or the classrooms. College presents
the ideal opportunity for development in non-academic ways. Force yourself to be original with your time. Be selfish with it
and break out of the boring mold that so many people here cling to. Make yourself think about what you're
doing with these 4 years. (If it depresses you at least you know you're alive.) Then decide what you’d like
to do with it all. Once you open up, there are fairly unlimited possibilities. You can become a strong creative
educated force capable of dealing with what you are in relation to the people next door, in the next state
and in the next country. Move yourself, keep aware of extra-Davidson occurrences, read and discuss outside of class, fall on
your face in a drunken stupor—anything as long as it’s something strictly for you and you can know and accept
the reasons for doing it.

Allow yourself to melt into the Davidson routine and you can die a perfectly painless, perfectly absurd intellectual death. And
if that’s what you're after why bother to be here. When you lock yourself into your studies you're nothing at
all. Take the opportunity that these years offer and bend it to suit yourself and then get out of your
room and do something with it.
