December 9, 1977

The Davidsonian

PANTOMIME ARTISTS show their flexibility of facial expression.

Goslar’s Pantomime Circus promises wagon of laughs

“It’s trite to think clowns are sad,” heralded pantomime artist Lotte Goslar once said.

She isn’t.

As director, choreographer, and costume designer of the Pantomime Circus set to appear in Love Auditorium next Monday night at 8:15, she doesn’t have time to be.

Her troupe has appeared in communities and colleges across the country. They have participated in the major American dance festivals and have toured across Europe.

The National Endowment for the Arts gave Miss Goslar four grants to create new works.

Forced to flee Germany, Goslar has accumulated a string of critical acclaim during her 40 years in America. She was once a friend and teacher to Marilyn Monroe.

Her nine-member circus will perform several scenarios probably containing a conversation with an ant, an impersonation of a flower or a mushroom, and a demonstration of aging.

As part of the Artist Series, Goslar’s show is available free to any student willing to walk by the union desk and pick up a ticket.

Tribute to a Good Man

By D. Michael Lins
Special Contributor

Earlier this year The Davidsonian featured an article on an elderly couple living in the Davidson community, Mr. and Mrs. George Goudy.

Last Thursday morning George Goudy died.

Those that knew and loved him will miss him immensely, since he had such a deep impact on our lives. For George Goudy came to Davidson, not to retire in a peaceful, slow-moving community, but rather to get involved, especially with the students.

His involvement touched many of our lives, as he helped us struggle with difficult questions arising from our courses (many of which he audited), as he supported DCF every week with his encouraging presence, as he was actively involved at DCPC, and as he invited us to visit him and his lovely wife in their home.

I remember George Goudy as a man sincerely committed to an intelligent and uncompromising Christian faith.

For Mr. Goudy openly claimed that there need be no compromise of reason to be a committed Christian, and with this conviction Mr. Goudy lived his daily life with true faith.

In addition to his sincere, uncompromising faith, Mr. Goudy displayed the mark of a sincere believer by loving each of us with gentleness and kindness in his actions towards us.

His faith challenged us to greater faith, while his love comforted and encouraged us along the way. And now that he is gone, our community will never be quite the same.

And so I write in honor of George Goudy who has left this world and has gone to live with the Lord he claimed to serve.

May we remember his faith and love, and may we often give thanks for the deep impression his friendship has left upon our lives.

Crafts up for grabs

By CAROL GIEGE
Staff Writer

The Davidson Christmas Crafts Fair is going back for seconds.

In the wake of what they considered to be a very successful first try last December, student organizers have decided to hold a second bazaar this Saturday from 10 to 5.

Students and area residents are expected to pack the tables in the Union’s Morrison Room with jewelry, home-made quilts, needlework, leather purses, and other handmade goods.

Student Manager Ginny Newell said that the fair will be an excellent opportunity for “the community to get together with the college.” Coffee and cake are free for the asking.

Newell demanded that those who want to sell items get in touch with her immediately so that there will be enough tables ready. She said that there was no entrance fee for potential customers.

Newell said she thought this would be a good opportunity for people to get part of their Christmas shopping out of the way.