November 4, 1977, at 2 ...nominees [Continued from page 1] African Community (EAC), the Benin-Sam Railroad, and the Trans-Sahara highway. The EAC was discontinued this year, so Metzel plans to study it to determine the cause and then compare the EAC with the other two systems. Metzel said, “There is no transportation infrastructure in Africa. Essentially, I’m saying this hurts African nations because they cannot engage in trade.”

Richter’s project is “an investigation of the Church-State relationships in Sweden, West Germany, and East Germany.” In both Sweden and West Germany, the state controls the main Church, while in East Germany, the State supports the Church financially but the socialist party discourages religion. Richter “wants to see if there is any connection between State control and apathy concerning the Church in West Germany and Sweden,” and whether the discrimination churchgoers receive in East Germany affects their attitudes. He plans to interview members of the Church hierarchy, laymen, and just men off the streets in each of the three countries, to “accumulate as much information on the topic as possible, trying to establish some kinds of trends.”

The Davidson College Committee who choose the Watson nominees, including Dean of Students Will Terry, Professor of Biology Cynthia Grant, Professor of French Frank Jacobus, Professor of Psychology John Brockway, Professor of German Hansford Epes, Professor of Political Science Harris Proctor, and students Jim Ervin, Susan Baynard, and Dave Keller, look for “what we think the Watsons look for,” according to Terry. Terry said the Committee asks, “Is the project durable? Is it worthwhile? And then (they decide) as best as we can determine the way this person would stack up in national competition.” The interview usually determines the last point, according to him.

Dana grant [Continued from page 1] organic chemistry labs, two classrooms, and a seminar room. This phase will cost an estimated $206,000. Dittman comments, “Because of the importance of other priorities, such as dining facilities, dorms, an Arts building, etc., we cannot hope to begin this phase for a long time.” In the past thirty years, the Dana Foundation has given Davidson a total of $2,228,604 in five different grants.

Monday—Saturday Mooresville 663-1503

The Davidsonian

International students talk candidly about Davidson life
By GEORGE MURDAUGH and EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writers

“Before I came to America, I thought that the youth here were all Hell’s Angels members and drug addicts.” This was the preconceived notion formerly held by Youssef Abagui, an Egyptian international student here. Now he says that idea of America’s youth has been “shattered” for him. Koji pointed out that Japan is a country of one race of people. Meeting Americans with different ethnic backgrounds has been especially interesting for him.

Most of the foreign students have not traveled enough to know what America is really like. All agree that Davidson is definitely not representative of the US as a whole. Each foreign student has a faculty advisor and is assigned two courses per term. Although most of these students feel that a lot of material is packed into each ten-week course, they say that time limitations don’t allow for in-depth, critical analysis of the subject matter, which is usually too shallow. Several students expressed feelings that Davidson students do not sufficiently question what they are being taught. Discussion groups and seminars are seen to be more useful than lecture-oriented classes. According to Joerg, the opportunities for free academic inquiry are present but are not beingused to their potential. The international students have encountered varying degrees of difficulty with the workload at Davidson, due to language barriers, the types of courses they are taking, and the broadness of the curriculum here. Solange enjoys the liberal arts emphasis found at Davidson. “In France, you specialize in education at an earlier age.” The International Students generally feel that Davidson students are friendly, easy to meet, and helpful. Several, however, note that it is difficult to develop close personal relationships, due to lack of time on the Davidson student’s part. “In spite of the fact that I like the people here very much, I hate to impose on them. I am hesitant to go knock on their door because I know they have to study,” says Omaima.

Finding enough privacy is a problem for international students. As is true for many Davidson students, private times and places are hard to come by. A couple of students are impressed with the amount of school spirit as evidenced at athletic events. They also feel that the combination of athletics and academics, stressing both physical and mental growth, is a valuable approach to education. Some of the students were repulsed by the violence of football. “Football is a combination of boxing, wrestling, soccer, rugby, and judo,” said Patricia. Rory thought that students here would be “very prim, proper, and religious.” Since coming to Davidson, he has modified his view somewhat.

A number of those interviewed feel that Davidson students are relatively conservative and tend to come from the upper-middle class. It was noted that a number of students on campus have little or no interest in political issues. Many of the International Students found this surprising as they have come from environments in which politics play a large part. They perceive that students are inclined to relate to worldwide issues because they are so immersed in their lives at Davidson. The International Students hope to be able to see more of the United States while they are here if financial obstacles can be overcome.

International Students:
Solange Albet—France
Rory Cornish—England
Bernadette Flatow—Mexico
Omaima Hatem—Egypt
Joerg Heinemann—Germany
Patricia Henrion—France
Ignacio Lopez—Spain
Koji Tomita—Japan
Vijay Verghese—India
Youssef Abagui—Egypt

Vijay finds this to be true, also. “When I have time to do things, others don’t,” he says. A number of students say they are bored with Davidson for various reasons. Some feel that there are not enough organizations or clubs on campus. Many international students, accustomed to a big city atmosphere, find Davidson’s community lacking in cultural activities. “Davidson College is not a good school for international students to come to because they’re not here only to find academic experiences, they’re here to learn more about the country, get involved, and meet people,” says Omaima. “Here there is nothing to be done.” On the other hand, some students find that there is always something to do. “There’s always something going on,” says Patricia. Koji says that while he has not been able to find many kinds of entertainment outside of campus, he does feel that the school tries to alleviate the problem by presenting a number of cultural and social events. Most of the students are not used to living on a campus, and so are enjoying experiencing a college community.