Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Trustee vote upcoming  
By PHILIP DUNCAN  
News Editor  

The Davidson faculty has approved a recommendation to amend paragraph 5, Article IV of the Trustee By-Laws and will present their recommendation at the Board of Trustees meeting next week. Paragraph 5, Article IV of the By-Laws drew national attention during last year's “Christian Tenure Controversy.” The college came under fire at that time when it rescinded a job offer from Ronald Linden, a Jewish Political Science professor who accepted an invitation to join the faculty at Davidson, but warned that he considered “morally repugnant, socially anachronistic, and scholastically unwise” the college’s policy (contained in the Trustee By-Laws) of requiring all tenured professors to “uphold and seek to increase the college’s effectiveness as a Presbyterian church-related college.” The Trustees declared in their May meeting that it had become “increasingly clear that it will be impossible for the administration of the college to apply the provisions of this by-law without the implication of discrimination.” The Trustees adopted a resolution initiating the by-law revision process, and instructed their Executive Committee to refine the resolution for the Board’s October meeting. Over the summer the Executive Committee made minor changes in the wording of the resolution, and recently sent their final draft to the campus for information and comment. Professor of Philosophy Robert E. Maydole said that...

---

Vol. LXVII, No. FOUR  
By LYMAN COLLINS  
News Editor  

The Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life voted to uphold the principle of self-selection for all the houses on Patterson Court at their Monday meeting. This vote came as the result of a proposal made by the Subcommittee on Patterson Court which has been discussing possible revisions in the present self-selection system. “The subcommittee was formed for the purpose of investigating Patterson Court and to recommend to the Advisory Council regulations for the operation of all aspects of the Court,” explained Professor of Chemistry Felix A. Carroll, chairman of the subcommittee. There has been much discussion lately because of reputed problems with the present system. The subcommittee has held hearings on the subject and has received proposals for reform from several people. These proposals have ranged from one calling for computer match-up of freshmen with houses to a dual-type system in which freshmen would decide in advance whether they wanted to be considered by the fraternities or the eating houses. “The subcommittee did carefully consider both the proposals for a bid system or dual system and it also considered the opinions expressed in the open meeting,” said Carroll. “But in the end we felt we could not recommend to the Advisory Council any system which involved a bid or a dual system. We also looked at the systems proposed to us from a wide variety of angles, not concentrating on any particular viewpoint.”

---

The proposal made Monday contains two major changes from the system in practice now. At self-selection, no person may choose to join a house at which he has not eaten or participated in some form of organized social event. “One of the very strong objections that was heard at the open meeting involved people who signed up at a house who had never expressed any interest in the house before self-selection,” explained Dean of Students Will Terry. It is hoped that this provision will eliminate to some extent this problem. Another change in the procedure concerns pledging the national fraternities. All freshmen who are eligible for fraternity membership that select one of the four national houses on campus may, at the house’s discretion, be required to pledge that fraternity. The Advisory Council did not feel that there had been adequate time to examine the proposal carefully so they reaffirmed their commitment to self-selection and sent the proposal back to the subcommittee for review and revision. It is not known whether or not the proposal will be completed in time to implement it fully this year. Subcommittee member Bob Morrison urged everyone to examine the proposal as a whole and not to criticize the small details: “It’s easy to criticize. We have a lot of critics on this campus but not enough constructive thinkers. I would like to see criticism in a more positive sense,” he said. Fellow subcommittee...

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.Member Vance Christopher echoed those sentiments, stating that the changes will help both fraternities and eating houses. The general direction of the proposal will help solve some of the problems. “But there is not one specific thing in the proposal that will solve all the problems,” he said. This action produced a variety of responses around the court. Emanon President Gil Cuthbertson’s response is typical of the sentiments expressed by the presidents of the eating houses. “Personally, I think it’s a very good decision because of the situation,” he said.

THE FACULTY APARTMENTS will house students. Park Place will house faculty. See story, page 3. [See PRESIDENTS, page 3]

Many in the faculty are uncomfortable with the wording of this resolution. With two others, he co-authored the faculty recommendation to amend the by-law. “The Trustees’ resolution requires that persons (in the faculty and administration) who are non-Christians must be ‘persons of genuine spirituality’. There is no effort to explain what that means, how it would apply, or what a person would have to do to live up to it,” Maydole commented. “There is, moreover, the requirement that persons on the faculty must not only ‘live in harmony with the purposes and policies of the college’, but that they also must ‘work with respect for the Christian tradition’. 

“Again we have one of those words which is vague—namely, ‘respect’. How, for example, would a devout Jew live with respect for the Christian tradition?” asked Maydole. “Would he have to respect all of the Christian tradition, some of the Christian tradition, these tenets, or those tenets—which elements must he have respect for? 

“In my opinion, those are the two main trouble spots in the Trustees’ resolution,” Maydole said. Professor of History David G. Rice, another co-author of [See FACULTY, page 3]

Hunter Jennings

SGA alters election date; turnover set for springtime
By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Staff Writer

Beginning this school year, the student body will elect the SGA president, vice-president, and upperclass senators in an election on the second Tuesday of spring term. In past years, the SGA president and vice-president were elected early in winter term. Upperclass senators were elected in a separate election later in the term, giving losers in the first election a chance to run for class senator positions. The new election process was adopted by the Senate last year under the leadership of SGA ex-president Bo Baskin. Current SGA President Thom Young feels that the move to consolidate these two elections in the spring term will make the Senate more efficient.

“Now the SGA officers will begin working right away with the class senators elected in the same election. All these people will serve together during the same period of time. With the same class senators working on projects throughout an administration, we can follow through better with things like course evaluations.” A spring election will also allow maximum efficiency of the Senate during winter term, when many important decisions are made.

Young said that spring term will be a learning time for future SGA presidents when ‘busy work’ can be accomplished. “In the spring, the Senate appoints 30 to 40 students to various boards, and this process takes a lot of screening time. The main business at five of our nine meetings last spring was to screen people for boards.” He also pointed out that the most productive time for the president—his last two school terms in office—will now be used as a planning period to outline SGA activities for the upcoming fall and winter terms.

Joanne Hull, chairman of the Elections Council, said that the election reform will cut down on the amount of work the Council has had to do in the past. “When campus elections were spread out all through the year it was confusing. This (election reform) will cut down on the number of elections we have to prepare for.” In the past, campus elections were held twice during both the fall and winter terms, and once during the spring. Now there will be one election every term. Currently, there are no plans to change the term of election for any of the other offices traditionally elected in the winter term. A proposal from a campus organization to change the term of election of their officers would require Senate action to change the by-laws.