‘Diverse’ campus = 5 percent black

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
Asst. News Editor

Blacks number less than five percent among Davidson students, but Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, H. Edmunds White, said
the college is not responsible for this misrepresentation. White insisted that the college was “interested in having diversity” in its
student body. White said that he tried to encourage students who were recruiting to seek out students who would add
variety to the Davidson campus. He also stated, “Black students have a better chance of being accepted than whites. We
have no policy on it, but because they (blacks) add some diversity, they get a little edge with certain faculty
members.”

Leonard Satterwhite, Admissions Counselor in charge of minority recruiting, said, “We write to high school counselors to send names of
outstanding minority students. Our emphasis is principally with black students, although American Indians and other minorities are not excluded.”

In spite of these efforts to increase minority enrollment, Duff Bruce, former Assistant Director of Admissions, says he isn’t satisfied.
“They try to get minorities, but Davidson doesn’t attract them because of tuition costs. My only kick is that they
(Admissions) should make more exceptions score-wise.” Bruce also suggested that if the staff were increased Satterwhite would have more time
for minority recruiting.

Pat Hudson, President of the Black Student Coalition, said he felt the Admissions Office was making an “honest effort this
year” in recruiting and admitting minority students. He emphasized that Admissions was making the effort this year as opposed to
last year, and attributed the reason for this step-up to a decrease in black students on campus this year. Hudson
said that the total number of blacks on campus this year, 26, was the lowest in his four years at
Davidson.

Erwin Carter, a sophomore who is in charge of putting together a brochure for the Admissions Office focusing on the
black student at Davidson College, said he thought that the college would have trouble attracting qualified blacks: “If they’re that
qualified they won’t be thinking about a predominantly white school. They want to go to a school where they will
really stand out, so Davidson will be on the bottom of the list,” he said. Carter, however, praised the work
of the Admissions Office, especially Satterwhite. “He’s trying to get more black students. Every time you go to his office,
he’s gone. He’s on the road all the time. He’s working pretty hard,” he concluded.

The Davidsonian

LEONARD SATTERWHITE, Admission Counselor in charge of minority recruiting, thinks Davidson’s cost keeps minorities away. (Hunter Jennings)

Transfers suffer confusion

By ANN GARNER
Assistant Projects Editor

The dilemmas are numerous. Cries of “Where do I go to eat?!” and the dismay of being housed in a
faculty basement in a remote part of town are frequent among transfer students. According to Mary Lou Dietler, Tony Boon,
and Holly Gnagney, the very idea of transferring carries with it connotations of “loneliness” and misplacement, or no placement at
all in their respective class.

Transfer students are accepted from various schools across the country. Although there are no statistics, Tony Boon, Admissions counselor, feels
that most come from larger universities where they have become “disillusioned” and who are seeking a smaller school with more
attention. Holly Gnagney, co-chairman of the Transfer Student Committee, says that the problems of transfer students with admissions is that
they are frequently told at the last minute of their acceptance. Thus, the Transfer Student Committee was formed last year
whose purposes according to advisor Mary Lou Dietler are “to accomplish the objectives of orienting the transfer students; to sensitize
the Davidson community of the existence and problems of transfers; and to provide them with an automatic activity where they
can vent their frustrations, air grievances, and share their problems with other transfers who are experiencing the same things.”

Last year the focus of the committee was upon salvaging the transfers from the throes of malnutrition and providing for
them self-selection before winter term. The project for the new committee chairmen Hans Cowan and Holly Gnagney is to provide
some sort of sanity for them during registration. With the success of the Student Transfer Committee coupled with the “bonds
of loneliness” that come to take the place of the freshman hall sphere of friendships, transfers now have an easier
time adjusting to being a “new” upperclassman while adding insight and the advantages of greater and varied experiences.

By AMANDA HALL
Managing Editor

The Davidson College admissions process works theoretically on a balance of power system. Director of Admissions H. Edmunds White, the
staff of the Admissions Office and a six-member faculty team review applicants and decide who is accepted. Although White says
he and the faculty members have equal votes when determining admissions, “I have some latitude in the interpretation of these
ratings if my numbers don’t work out. It’s just in adjusting thenumbers at the last minute,” he said. White explained
the process of determining admissions as basically a three-step operation. When an applicant’s high school records, SAT scores, and Achievement
scores are received, a predicted average for the student’s work at Davidson is established. The student’s file, made of his
recommendations, records, and autobiography is then reviewed by a team of two.

standards rise also [Continued from page 1]

“I don’t feel made insecure by the females here now. But if they start admitting girls who are a lot
smarter on the average than the males, we couldn’t help but resent it as long as the administration seems to
run Davidson as a male-oriented school.” A freshman lashed out, “I like superior women just as long as they don’t
come to Davidson. It’s hard enough to compete against members of your own sex, but if you’re going to complicate
things, I just don’t want to have any part of it. Just think what sad shape the world would be
in without super intelligent women—right off hand I can’t think of any.”

The possibility of over-achieving women raises questions concerning the likely benefits and detriments of the College’s adopting a completely sex-blind
admissions policy. In such a system, the sole criterion for acceptance would be the applicant’s merit as the College has
traditionally defined that term. Speculating on the trustees’ objections to such a policy, Dean White commented, “Davidson College was established
as a men’s college. The decision was made to maintain 1000 men and gradually add 500 women as the facilities
and endowment enable us to do so.

“The 2:1 ratio was seen as a workable solution. The trustees felt that they had served and that they wanted
to continue to serve that constituency of 1000 men. I personally feel that it would be very bad if you
went literally to a sex-blind admissions policy which might go to some extreme.” The Dean noted that many people who
favor a sex-blind policy are naive in assuming a 50:50 ratio would naturally result. Moreover, many proponents of such a
policy are not willing to endorse a situation in which the College enrolled, say, 70 percent women and 30 percent
men. Such an outcome is theoretically possible under a solely merit-based admissions policy.

Assistant Dean Dietler offered a contrasting view. She said, “I think it would be nice if we went to a
sex-blind admissions policy. But that’s an ideal and some areas of college life might make it impossible. If it were
my decision to make, I would first examine whether it would work a financial hardship on the College. I would
study affected areas and if a sex-blind system was not possible, I would shoot for some ratio close to it
which would establish a more natural community environment.”

Based on the current rate of applications, a rigid 50:50 system, in which the 175 most highly qualified prospects of
each sex were accepted, would discriminate against men. Regarding Davidson’s special consideration of applicants who are black, athletes, or children
of alumni, Dean White remarked that, “Some would say there are inequities in our policies in those areas, but I
personally think the special consideration we give in those areas is appropriate. In those areas, our policies are similar to
the policies of most of the better colleges I know about.” Besides “those areas,” Davidson also grants special consideration, as
it were, to all male applicants.
