The Davidsonian

April 8, 1977

RUGGERS CLAMOR for the ball in a hard-fought match.

Blinkhorn’s batting spurs Cat’s victory

By PAT HICKERT
Staff Writer

The Wildcats combined a big eighth inning rally and some fine relief pitching by Tim Barr to claim their sixth victory by beating California State (Pa.) 9-5 on Wednesday afternoon.

Ron Cannon started the game and pitched for six innings, striking out six and giving up seven hits.

After California State knotted the score 4-4 in the top of the seventh, Tim Barr came in and held them scoreless for the rest of the game, while striking out four of the seven batters he faced and allowing no hits. Barr was given the win, raising his record to 5-5.

Rick Blinkhorn led the way at the plate, going two-for-four, and getting two doubles, one coming during the five-run eighth inning with the bases loaded, scoring two runs. California State used three pitchers during that spree.

Coach Palmer Muench was very pleased with his team’s performance. He commented that the Cats have been playing good defensive ball all along, but just haven’t been getting the hits.

That was the big problem against Delaware (a 7-0 loss) on Monday. When the Wildcats got a runner on base they just couldn’t capitalize. But Coach Muench said, “I’m not discouraged at all. We haven’t been striking out; we’ve been hitting...but always at somebody.”

Today Ken Norwood gets the starting nod against Wake Forest. Then on Saturday, the Cats go up against the Southern Conference leader, East Carolina (4-0 in the conference).

Muench said: “They’ve (East Carolina) been getting really good pitching this year.”

“They aren’t overpowering hitters so it should be a good game. Tim Barr and Tim Purcell will start for Davidson.”

Balanced scoring powers rugby win

By DAVID HULL
Staff Writer

The Davidson Rugby Football Club defeated Belmont Abbey 14-10 last Sunday, April 2, in a close and hard-fought match.

Jeff Morrow, Mike Merwarth, and Pete Johnson each scored a try for Davidson and Wilburn Swaim kicked an extra point.

Field Captain Bucky Banks felt that both the Davidson scrum, led by Jay Coward’s excellent play, and the backs played well in the victory over the Fighting Monks.

Banks also commented, “The team is looking strong this spring. I think the younger players are getting more experience and next fall we should have a big young team.”

The victory evened Davidson’s spring record at 1-1 after a previous 16-4 loss to the Charlotte Gargoyles.

In the afternoon’s second match, an inexperienced B-squad lost to Belmont Abbey 12-0.

The recently elected Rugby Football officers are: Wilburn Swaim—President; Randy Dulin—Vice President; Rich Reynolds—Treasurer; Will Grimsley—Match Secretary; and Bucky Banks—Field Captain.

The ruggers will play at least three more matches this spring, though the schedule is not definite at this time.

SPORTS QUIZ
Who was the 1931 National League batting champ?

Local Artists Gallery

Will Feature For The Month Of April
Jane Ann Budd Ellithorpe

Jane Ellithorpe of Davidson, mother of two and wife of Dr. Charles Ellithorpe, is a native of Essex, England. She studied art at Syracuse University and was a student under Alison Christy (watercolors) and Nancy Sims (acrylics). She has shown with the local Artist’s Guild in Columbus, Ga.

The Public Is Cordially Invited To Meet Mrs. Ellithorpe at The Village Store Gallery And To Enjoy Her Work Through April 30

“A WORLD OF GIFTS”

THE VILLAGE STORE

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners
Custom Framing, Prints, Posters, Graphics, Limited Editions
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036 (704) 892-1380