The Davidsonian, September 23, 1977

IMAC Report

Fine spurs flickerball fever

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

An infectious fever struck Davidson students this week as clear skies and warm weather greeted them and the opening week
of Flickerball season.

So infectious was this fever that Bernie gave up stealing televisions and Hogman put down his cold PBR to investigate
this week’s offerings of flickerball competition.

Our investigation proved to be fruitful as this week served up a number of IMAC firsts. Field numbers 4 and
5 received their baptisms, much to the chagrin of IMAC competitors.

The first IMAC tragedy occurred on #4 as three people disappeared in the craters on the left side of the
near end zone. Davidson Police were stymied in their investigative efforts but did manage to arrest the entire IMAC office
on negligence charges and had rape phones placed near all flickerball fields.

Sumwalt became the first forfeit victim of the year and is only one forfeit away from being the first ten-dollar
contributor to the Graeme Thompson-Bob Hayman-Dave Schmidt Bahama Vacation Relief Fund.

Bert Downs set a personal first when he managed to catch and run with a long pass for a touchdown
despite interference from ear muffs on his Kamikaze-style helmet.

Johnny Castleberry and the East Harlem Whizz Kids set an IMAC record by never running anything but a sleeper play
in their game with the 2nd Richardson Beavers. The Beavers meanwhile set a record of their own by never recognizing
any of the Whizz Kids’ plays.

Said one frustrated Beaver, “I always thought the sleeper was a wrestling hold.”

The biggest “first” this week came when ATO stunned PAX for its first flickerball victory in years. The Zeroes are
obviously on the right track to building that nationally competitive flickerball program which they have sought for a long time.
So much for firsts.

This week’s play did little to scramble the Bad Bernard and Hogman Top Ten. Number one SAE did not play
by press time but retained their hold on first while KA #1 trounced Up and Coming 40-7 in spite of
an eight-minute second half.

Dave Pottinger jumped out to an early lead in the Ragman of the Year Award while leading MacFleet and Stuff
to a 58-0 demolishing of Twatts.

Steve Justus and Clayton Rogers directed a sky-high Bongs team to a 38-13 drubbing of Up and Coming, forcing students
to wonder where the losers came up with their name.

The Old Men scored six early touchdowns while Sumwalt was scattered hither, thither and yon about campus and then hung
on for a 36-35 forfeit.

Number Six War Kiwis annihilated 4th Richardson 33-0 while Joe “Legend” Winkle solidified the FIJI’s hold on the number seven
spot with a 39-12 defeat of Twatts.

Ray Berberik and Marty Kreshon each scored twice to lead Number 8 SPE’s to a 37-6 victory over Son of
SOMF. (Guess what SOMF stands for?)

Johnny Castleberry took the number nine spot and the surprising Bargain Basement of Richardson took the number ten position with
a 32-0 stomping of PIKA. Credit John Gerdy’s disciplined control of his hall for that victory.

The Bad Bernie-Hogman Top Ten:
1. SAE (0-0)
2. KA #1 (1-0)
3. MacFleet and Stuff (1-0)
4. Bongs (1-0)
5. Old Men (1-0)
6. War Kiwis (1-0)
7. FIJI’s (1-0)
8. SPE’s (1-0)
9. Johnny Castleberry and the East Harlem Whizz Kids (1-0)
10. Bargain Basement (1-0)

In the minor leagues, the M&M's, behind Susan Davidson and Sarah Stoneburner, destroyed the Sugar Bears 16-0. Hiyaki smothered the
Wads of Ruskeller, 34-0, and Little Killers nipped Sun Maidens, 7-0.

Don’t forget that Davidson’s first Tackle Golf game of the year is less than a month away. Some good seats
are available along most fairways and a few are still left on the eighth and ninth greens.

Bill McDade and Glenn Ballard are pre-season all-conference selections for this year’s team which hopes to improve on last year’s
second place finish.

Later.

Increased funds boost club sports

By KEVIN R. ROBBINS
Staff Writer

For those would-be athletes not destined for intercollegiate fame nor satisfied with IMAC stardom, the rise of Davidson’s Club Sports
Program from the depths of anonymity might be the best thing around.

Formerly an organization floundering in obscurity under limited funding, Club Sports at Davidson have been beefed up due largely to
the hard work of Director Sterling Martin and President Ron Rosenberg.

Beginning this year the Club Sports, including football, rugby, water polo, hockey, soccer, lacrosse and water-skiing, will be operating on
school-appropriated funds. The school will provide half of each club’s operating budget while the members of that club will be
responsible for the other half.

These funds will aid in the much-needed purchase of equipment and field preparation materials while allowing each club to remain
largely independent of Davidson's budget.

Club Sports currently in progress include rugby, football, and water-skiing with the others opening during their respective seasons.

This space will be the one to check for the scores and reports on your Sunday heroes in Club Sports,
so keep your peepers peeled for our Invigorating Masterful Announcements on Clubs column. Just ask Hogman.
