February 11, 1977

The Davidsonian

Grapplers defeat Hampden-Sydney
Cochran pleased with win

Chris Cochran is a happy man this week. The Wildcat wrestling coach saw his grapplers demolish an outmanned Hampden-Sydney squad,
48-9 last Friday, and that is enough to make any Davidson wrestling fan happy.

“There were ten good individual matches,” Cochran said. “We wrestled to the best of our ability and didn’t let up.
It was a heck of a good wrestling match.”

The first-year coach has not had many opportunities to savor victories this year: Friday’s win was only the second team
triumph in eight outings for the Wildcats. Nevertheless, Cochran is looking forward to tomorrow night’s match against Washington and Lee.

“We're getting better, but Washington and Lee has an excellent program. It should be a very good wrestling match.”

Cochran has brought stability to Davidson wrestling, which had three different head coaches last year. The personable Miami native was
appointed to head the program this year while Charlie Parker, the veteran wrestling coach, recovered.

Ta-ta to Ta-Ta’s
By THE BODACIOUS TA-TA’S Staff Writers

We considered printing an infirmary edition of our column because of the sudden rash of the Victorian flu, but decided
against it in hopes that our healthy readers would deliver our message to their diseased colleagues.

The Basement Bangers derailed B.T. Express 38-10 Monday night in a game that went down to the wire. The Express
ultimately yielded to the relentless Bangers, but only after Curt “Mr. Oscar” Goho drew two charges with a superb job
of acting. The only other highlight for the Express was that Ken “The Gerd” Norwood hit 80 percent of the
team score—eight points. Because of its stellar performance, we hereby bestow upon B.T. Express our Wimp Team of the Week
Award and congratulate them on reaching the zenith of basketball’s nadir.

The Gnads entered the gym Sunday night with bloated egos which were promptly ruptured by the boisterous bwanas of On
Again. The coffin of the Gnads was nailed shut by the scoring tandem of Dave “Love It” Ellison and Tom
“Google” Cooper which scored 34 points to match the entire Gnads team effort. Final score: 51-34.

“Weeter” Johnson once again had an incredible game, scoring 18 points to lead Der Lix to a 44-38 flogging of
Martin Manor. Johnson was awarded the game ball which he promptly used to make a batch of Spalding daiquiris for
the post-game wingding. Jonathan “Rumrunner” Rhyne pumped in 26 points for the mugwumps of Martin Manor.

Monday night, SPE #1 reduced the Average White Team to the Sub-Average Albino Alliance. The score card for this game
presented an interesting predicament for us. The SPE #1 players were listed by last name only, the Average White Team
members by first name only, and the scoring totals for each player were left out. Thus, we decided to credit
all the points to “Jumpin’ Joe” Clark of the SPE’s, and Henry “Lofty” Lomax of AWT. The final score was
“Jumpin’ Joe” 38-21.

First Watts crushed a submissive M&M team, 16-6. Virginia “Rock-and-roll” Robertson paced First Wattettes with six points, while Peg “Tap-It-In”
Travis added four more. M&M was led by Susan “Crusher” Casper, who laid in four points. One fan was heard
to comment, “M&M just seemed to melt all over the floor.”

We feel the time has come for us to say ta-ta. We have had an enjoyable career and...Hope you have
been pleased with the column. We trust you have lost a bit of your sanity as well. May the next
columnists bestow as much absurdity upon you as we have.

Cochran wrestled for three years at the high school level and helped coach a Connecticut team to the state championship
while attending college at Bridgeport. “Wrestling’s a super sport,” Cochran commented. “I love it. It does not attract a lot
of people, but you hope you’re molding the proper characteristics in athletes. It boils down to just you out there.”

When he assumed the top position at Davidson, Cochran knew that North Carolina was not an easy state in which
to head a wrestling program. The larger high schools in the state have begun to emphasize the sport only recently,
and many smaller schools have no wrestling. The problem of recruiting at Davidson is compounded since no scholarships are offered.
The coach admitted, “A lot of good wrestling takes place a long distance from here. The Ivy League attracts good
wrestlers. But I have four good prospects who are definitely interested in coming to Davidson. They’re of all-state caliber. With
those prospects, and the returnees we’ll have next year, the future here looks good.”

If Friday’s match was an indication of things to come for Davidson wrestling, the future looks good indeed. The Wildcats
won seven of ten matches by pins, and one by forfeit. Hampden-Sydney won the other two matches. Leading the team
victory were Mark Scandling and Scott Phillips. Scandling, who wrestles in the 150-lb. division, remained undefeated in dual competition this
year and raised his season’s record to 7-3. Phillips, now 8-2, scored his fourth straight pin in the 177-lb. division.
According to Cochran, Scandling and Phillips may participate in the Southern Conference tournament March 4-5 at East Carolina. Scandling, the
team captain, finished fourth in last year’s tournament.

Other Davidson wrestlers who won their matches against Hampden-Sydney were Reb King, Terryl Rhye, Pat Dulaney, Brian Jacobs, and Steve
Sellers. Ted Mumby won by forfeit. The Wildcat grapplers meet Washington and Lee at 7 pm tomorrow night at Johnston
Gym. The season concludes next Friday when Davidson hosts Furman.

MCAT/DAT REVIEW COURSE
Available in Charlotte starting April 2, 1977. 7 sessions, 28 hours of instruction including new MCAT preparation. For information: P.O.
Box 988, Durham, N.C. 27702. Phone: 919-477-6253

SUMMER CAMP COUNSELOR OPENINGS
At Camp Sea Gull and Camp Seafarer - boys' and girls' camps on the coast of North Carolina featuring SAILING,
MOTORBOATING, and SEAMANSHIP plus all usual camping activities including a golf course at Sea Gull and horseback riding at Seafarer.
30th season. June 7 - August 19. Good opportunities for students who are looking for more than just another summer
job. Openings for NURSES (RN). Qualifications include excellent character references, ability to instruct in one phase of the camp's program,
and a genuine interest in young people. Good salary; room and board furnished; excellent group-work training and skills development; plus
the opportunity of sharing in a highly purposeful and personally challenging experience. Quick answer upon receipt of letter of application
which should include resume of training and experience in area(s) of the camp program in which you are best qualified
to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

We're counting on you.
