The Davidsonian Preview

Space out tonight

By PATRICK COVINGTON
Staff Writer

When Stanley Kubrick made 2001: A Space Odyssey, he was assisted by, among others, a 25-year-old special effects prodigy named Douglas Trumbull, who bore the official title of Special Photographic Effects Supervisor. Several years later, Trumbull directed his first feature film, Silent Running, which is this week's Pop Film.

In Silent Running, Trumbull moves seven years further into the future: we are now in the year 2008. The story is an ecological fable (remember ecology?) about a scientist named Lowell (Bruce Dern), who is orbiting around the earth in a multi-billion-dollar greenhouse containing the last remnants of plant life on earth. When his superiors down on his defoliated home planet order him to abandon the project of tending the plants, Lowell gets more than a little upset, killing his fellow astronauts; and, determined to save the plants, heads off into space, assisted by two robots named Huey and Dewey. (There is a third robot—bet you can’t guess his name—who dies, or expires, or whatever robots do.) These robots are evidently a bit more anthropomorphic and cooperative than the monotoned “Hal” of 2001. Silent Running, a 1972 release, is 90 minutes long, is in color, and is rated G.

If you’d just listen, you’d take to it

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

Nearly all Davidson students hate country music. If one looks hard enough, a few folks can be found who, upon confrontation, will nervously shift from one foot to the other and ashamedly admit that they like Emmy Lou Harris or Jerry Jeff Walker or Willie Nelson. ‘‘But,’’ they always quickly point out, ‘‘I don’t go in for the hard-core stuff,’’ that rhinestone-coated, leisure-suited, high-rise hairdo’ed world of real country music. The Davidson student who enjoys listening to the twangy steel guitars and heart-wrenching songs of Dolly Parton, Conway Twitty, or Loretta Lynn is extremely rare. In fact, I can say proudly and with my head held high, that I am probably the only one. I really do love country music.

The reasons for my seemingly odd behavior are hard to find, much less analyze. I remember visiting my grandmother, a tough old matriarch of the Appalachian foothills, and reacting with incredulity and disgust when I found she tuned in faithfully to the Grand Ol’ Opry show each Saturday night. My hatred and ridicule of the country sound continued unabated all the way until Winter term my sophomore year at Davidson. The Top 40 stuff on WBT seemed especially repetitious and dull that Winter, and so—only for a lark, mind you—I turned the dial to WSOC-FM, ‘Stereo Country.” All the guys I lived with kidded me, calling me ‘‘Country Joe’’, Conway Craig’, or “Joe Haggard.” I soon resolved to go back to the secure normalcy of rock ‘n roll. But... for some reason I just never could get around to it. The spell of Johnny Cash and Charley Pride already had me unawares.

My summer job with the hometown telephone company served to perpetuate my exposure to country. Mickey, the fellow I worked with, was a Red Man-chewin’, 'coon-huntin’, good ol’ boy. There was no music but country, he declared, and that was that. We had a little radio that we’d carry up the telephone wires with us, and I took to singing along.with the songs to take my mind off the distance that separated me from the ground below. One day, as I was singing “Tonight, the bottle let me down,” Mickey took the baseball-sized plug of tobacco out of his mouth, thus indicating he was going to speak. “You know something,” he said thoughtfully, “I didn’t always like country music.”

Incredulous, I nearly fell from the pole, and after I’d recovered, he continued. “I had to learn to like it, sorta like drinkin’ beer. Everybody else was drinkin’ ’em, and I had to choke those first few down. But nowadays, every beer I drink is the best beer I ever drunk.” And he fondly patted his ample spare tire as proof. “Anyways, you’re probably just tolerating it on my account, so I’ll be generous and let you play what you want. But only for a while, mind you.”

---

Review By BETSY THOMAS Staff Writer

John Grazier, winner of the 1975 Purchase and Impressions Workshop Awards in the Davidson National Print and Drawing Competition, is being featured in the College Gallery’s second exhibit. The work which originally won the award is entitled, “The Room Above,” a pencil drawing. His collection of 48 drawings, etchings, and lithographs mainly describe buildings in puzzling perspectives. Distorted angles are prominent in the work of this Washington, D.C., artist. His pencil creates quiet drawings full of lines and shadows, accurate in detail and absorbing in appeal.

Opening the exhibit on March 8 with a gallery talk, Mr. Grazier described his pencil technique called cross-hatching, a method which uses a series of crossing filler lines. Well, by all rights, I should have. But Red Sovine was playing “Teddy Bear,” and chills began to run down my spine. Every twang of the guitar was “a-pluckin’ at the strings of my heart.” Dammit, I was converted right then and there. By now I’m past being cured, I’m a hopeless addict. But what’s a surreptitious country music lover to do at Davidson, the haven of hard rockers and beach music buffs? Next week I’ll reveal how and where I satisfy my cravings.

---

Grazier on exhibit now and from 50 to 100 hours for a drawing. Focusing on architectural details, his perspective gives one the feeling of wearing someone else’s glasses. Through Mr. Grazier’s unique spectacles, windows sway and corners jut from the drawings. His realistic style is individual and intriguing. But, if the purpose of this exhibit is to show more of his work, it fails; for the collection is distressingly similar. A lack of contrast between the drawings makes it less worthwhile than if it were varied by other subjects. “The Room Above” fits among the other 48 too comfortably, implying a lack of experimentation and progression in the artist’s work. His original approach makes the show worth viewing (his award in the Drawing Competition being well-earned); however, its homogeneity detracts from its promise.

---

HELP WANTED

COLORADO WYOMING MONTANA

Summertime employees for dude ranches, Nat. Parks, and U.S. Forest Service. For information and directory send $3.00 to Outdoor Services Box 349 Cody, Wyoming 82414