April 22, 1977
IMAC Report
Athlete of the Week
The Davidsonian

Lovett combines ego and madness
By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

If you really want to hear about it, the first thing you'll probably want to know is if John Lovett
was the offspring of a Minotaur and an Estonian antelope. But between grunts, he does speak English, and you begin
to realize that indeed he is human, so it is logical to conclude that his parents were human, also. But
enough of his heritage. What we are concerned about is his excellence in performance, especially last week, on and off
the rugby field.

Lovett, combining ego and madness, has mortally wounded some three hundred players, both on Davidson and the opposing teams, since
the fall of 1973 when his four-year Lovett career began. Known as "bullheaded Lovett," John has suffered some four or
five concussions since 1973. "I think it’s really macho," said Lovett, "to speak tackle without a helmet."

In last week’s game against an experienced Danville team, Lovett scored the only "try" for Davidson and displayed an excellence
in knocking down people. When asked about how his body was able to withstand four years of violence and pain,
Lovett replied, "Didn’t Freud say that happiness was nothing but the remission of pain? So the more pain, the intenser
the happiness. But there is a prior origin to this, and the psyche makes pain on purpose. But anyway, I’m
really into happiness, so that’s why I love pain so much."

Lovett’s performance in the annual "Washington Sevens Tournament" in Washington, D.C., was outstanding. Almost singlehandedly, he kept Davidson in the
tournament with feet flying like a Mac truck and his mouth frothing like the finished product of a Schlitz brewery.

Lovett has recently had second thoughts about a professional career in rugby and has decided to study this week so
he can go to medical school. He will be sorely missed next year on and off the field.

Gozinyas finally whack Off Again
By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

Bernie and Hogman are unusually high this week due to the signing of a superstar guard, Chris Dodds, by Big
Daddy Dave. Now if we can just sign the big kid from down in Gray, we will all be chewing
on cigars for the next four years. Do it up, Cats.

The softball world was turned upside down this week as the derelicts from the Gozinyas (Goes out you, too) whacked
Off Again, 4-2. The Gozinyas were boosted by Soto’s high-powered arm and Stick’s typical mediocrity. After the game, Hogman had
a chance to interview star center fielder for the Gozinyas, Mark Sumwalt. Walt had this to say about his team’s
chances for the pennant, "Well, man, you know, we are all, ahh, you know, in it, man, and you know,
man, ahh, any one of, ahh, five teams could, you know, win it all."

San Fernadino Pasquale’s Pizza Hut de Soto has been named our IMAC athlete of the week, and he will receive
15 8” x 10” color glossy photos of Bad Bernard and Hogman. Autographed, of course.

For Off Again, it was their first consecutive straight loss in a row with a win. Get down, Duke, Pine,
and Flash.

Bernie and Hogman would like to apologize to all the...Gorgeous coeds (all five of you) for not giving you better
sports coverage this year. The big coed game of the week found Killer Watts and the Little Boogiers actually showing
up to engage in serious competition. The score gyrated one way and then the other as the game grinded on,
until it reached its inevitable climax, with the Little Burgers going down, 4-3. More coed scores later.

In other softball play this week, two more top ten teams clashed as KA #1 met SPE #1. The SPE’s
excluded the KA’s as they eliminated them, 7-4. Too bad ’am, Percy. Presto’s Grill remained undefeated behind the fabulous pitching
of big Jon Lee Hart and the arm of Rob Murray. The Grill fried two opponents this week and vaulted
into our second spot.

As of this printing, two important games will have been played this afternoon. #2 Presto’s met #6 Flaming A’s and
#1 Gozinyas met #5 Your Face. Call 376-3231 for all the scores.

Stedman Lyles and Pat Dulany set an IMAC record this week as they combined to consume 107 beers during their
game with Last Rites. Stedman and Pat were buried immediately following the game.

The SAE’s jumped from 37th to #10 this week as they beat the do-do out of EMBO and Chocolate Speedway.
The E’s shagged 45 runs and 31 fly balls in the contests. Baby Rick’s Bar and Grill remained in our
terrific ten this week as they ran by Wee Willy and the Wahoo’s, 19-6. Nobody played well in the game.

It is of no concern to anyone that the Goodwinites and Ed’s Massage Parlor played this week so we won't
even mention the score.

In volleyball, the young boys from the Phi Delt House have emerged with three different teams that are currently the
number one teams in three of the five divisions. But no one will know for sure until the tournament is
over just who the winner will be.

And now, once again, what all of you sick wombats here at DC have been waiting for, the revised and
recalculated Bad Bernard and Hogman Terrific Ten is:
1. Gozinyas .985
2. Presto’s Grill .980
3. Off Again .979
4. Jungle Queen .978
5. Your Face .9775
6. Flaming A’s .970
7. Baby Rick’s Bar & Grill .960
8. SPE #1 .950
9. Cannonballs .934
10. SAE #1 .913

We would also like to inform all you warped people that Berta and Bernie’s First Annual Memorial Invitational Backgammon Classic
will be played in two weeks and the sign-up deadline is April 29. Entrance fee is $.50 and all the
money will be split between the top four finishers. If interested, be sure to see Berta in L106 or Bernie
in L104.

In closing, I would like to say hi to my parents and the Reverend Frank Hamilton and George Bright. Later.

Electronic Service and Sales
THE SHOP
173 N. Main Street
663-4513: MOORESVILLE

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
PLANNED PARENTHOOD
377-0841
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
