FCC Delays WDAV License Renewal
By PHILIP DUNCAN, News Editor

The Federal Communications Commission is holding up Davidson College’s application to renew the license of radio station WDAV. “The application is being held up for four reasons," said Director of News and Photography Earl W. Lawrimore. “First, they (the FCC) say they've never received a statement verifying that announcements were made (on WDAV) notifying our intent to renew the license.

“This involves announcing for six days in a row the fact that we have applied for an FM broadcast license. The announcements were completed Tuesday, and we must now send the times and text of the notification to the FCC.

“Second, we expected to conduct a fund-raising drive to raise the money for the station. The FCC said that an expectation isn’t enough, that we must have actual pledges.” “Getting pledges at this early stage would take too much time,” Lawrimore explained, so an alternate route will be proposed in order to meet FCC regulations. “We will show that the college has liquid assets sufficient to finance the radio station.

“We haven't changed plans—we will still raise money for the station. The third problem was simply a typographical error in listing the total cost of high-power. Fourth, we failed to note that Trustee John Trask is part-owner of WBEU in Beaufort, S.C. That doesn't cause us any problems—we just have to list it as such.

“These four little fine-print items are all there is. Once taken care of (by a letter of amendment), it should be a short time before we'll get approval—hopefully by the end of this month,” said Lawrimore.

Vol. LXVI, No. EIGHTEEN

By AMANDA HALL, Managing Editor

Vandalism of the grounds and buildings of Davidson College costs the college over $10,000 a year, according to Dean of Students Will Terry and Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze. The destruction is not centered on any specific area of the campus, according to Meetze, but is equally spread throughout the facilities.

The most costly form of destruction is hall water fights, costing the college about $3200 a year, but repairing ceilings totals about $1500, as does replacing cut window screens. The repair of broken window panes totals to another $1000. Destroyed doors, hinges, or locks from people breaking into rooms costs the college another $1000. The remainder to the $10,000 estimate comes from damage to grounds, chairs, or trash cans, broken EXIT lights, the destruction of road signs, and various other vandalism.

“I’m not trying to catch vandals,” said Meetze, “It’s up to the deans and the students to establish some kind of social order here.” The job of the members of the physical plant staff is only to repair and to replace what vandals destroy, according to Meetze.

“Vandalism hasn’t been handled and that’s part of the problem,” said Terry. “We’ve generally said if we can find the person we’ll make him pay for the damage.”

SAE’s Prank

Wednesday night a group of pledges from the SAE fraternity allegedly egged three Patterson Court houses and streaked women’s dorm, possibly entering one bathroom. “I got a call about 10:45 asking me to come to the ATO house,” said Dean of Students Will Terry. “Apparently a group of SAE pledges came into ATO looking for a composite that wasn’t there. Some eggs were thrown inside the house as well as outside,” he said. One of the eggs hit the wall over the ATO fireplace, others landed in the carpeted living room, and some hit the floor in the eating area. Eggs were also thrown at the Phi Delt and Fannie & Mabel’s houses.

“I've heard that they went in one women’s restroom, but that information came to me second-hand and hasn't been checked out. It starts as a prank by people being funny or cute. Then for one reason or another someone loses judgment and goes too far. They end up doing things that other people don’t think are funny or cute, and harm the organization they represent.”

Terry explained the preliminary action to be taken on the matter. “I wish that the Patterson Court Council would deal with problems that stem from initiations or activities on Patterson Court. But I have very little confidence that organizations on the Court will impose sanctions on one another. So I will start the process by initiating a discussion between the leadership of the two organizations, ATO and SAE. Problems like this begin to snowball, creating personal and intergroup animosity as well as physical damage to property. It gets to be a ‘Can you top this?’ kind of thing.”

“Indicators are very good that we will go on the air in the fall,” Lawrimore said.the actual operation of the station after the expected FCC approval is granted. “I drew up a five-page proposal summarizing what we proposed to do, outlining anticipated costs, and asked the trustees to endorse the current plans. “They did so, and added that ‘ultimate authority (for the radio station) must rest with the college administration.’”

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Vandals’ destruction costs thousands yearly

Damage and loss will be said further. “It’s very hard to tell who did the damage because it was done incognito and no one will tell who did it. That is changing now. That is the final way it will be defeated. “I think in some ways we have been too lenient in this. We’ve been ignoring it and hoping it will go away. Obviously, it hasn’t,” he said.

Terry believes part of the cause of vandalism is the habit of people to want to change things they do not like. He thinks people should learn to adjust instead. “If there are problems that are manifestations of the gaps in community life we ought to do something about that, too,” he said. “And just being a heavy isn’t going to solve the problem. On the other hand, we can’t go to the extreme of blaming Davidson for me knocking a door down, because that’s self-defeating.”

Lawrimore discussed the projected costs: “The transmitter and antenna system will cost about $50,000—this is essential to get on the air with high power. $21,000 will go for improvements in the studio, considerable improvement in classical records and tapes, miscellaneous electronic parts, and maintenance equipment. The ‘automation option’ is still listed at $36,000, but no decision has been made on that at this time. If it were added, it wouldn’t be until Spring 1978. I don't know at this point how much beyond $50,000 will be spent. It will depend on how much and how fast money can be raised and equipment estimates.”

“We have discussed a very tentative operating budget of $28,000. The figure includes salaries for a part-time program coordinator, a part-time engineer, and a part-time secretary, as well as student broadcasters during holidays and the summer.” $18,000 will go for salaries and $10,000 for general operating expenses. The total is, according to Lawrimore, “extremely low, in comparison to other educational stations’ budgets.”

See related editorial, page 4

The proposal describes five potential sources of revenue for the radio station. The first is a direct fund-raising drive. “We hope to raise a substantial proportion of that initial $50,000 to $71,000 from outside sources. My wild guess is that we could raise $30,000 to $40,000. Program sponsorship by commercial firms will also be sought. Third, we will set up a subscription service for regular listeners, providing them with a program guide in return for contributions. We will also have specialized programs for sub-carrier broadcasting. To receive these sub-carrier programs, people must rent specially tuned receivers from the programming source.” The fifth moneymaker will be a Davidson Sports network. Broadcasts of basketball and football games will originate from WDAV and “commercial stations will pay.”

College tabs new teachers

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
Asst. News Editor

Davidson will have seven new professors next fall. This marks one of the largest faculty turnovers in years. Dr. James Purcell, English chairman, said his department looked at 400 applications from literally all over the world and “ended up getting someone born seven miles from here.” Dr. Gil Holland commented, “This person (Nelson) is full-fledged American literature, and that’s what the department needs.”

Nelson’s publications include “George Black: A New Folk Hero” and “Re-examining A Connecticut Yankee: Mark Twain’s Dream Quest Through History.” Nelson’s age, 28, aided his selection, according to Purcell. “We were concerned with a certain age bracket and also with balancing the upper and lower ranks. He is in the lowest position of Ph.D.”

The new mathematics professor, Kay Ellen Smith, got her BS degree from Bucknell in 1972. She has been doing her graduate work at Yale and expects her Ph.D. this year. Math chairman, Richard Bernard, remarked, “She’s going to be a fine addition to the department. I think the students will benefit greatly from her expertise.”

Ronald Linden, the new addition to the political science department, has a BA from Boston University, an MA from the University of Michigan, and a Ph.D. from Princeton. His specialties include International Relations and Organization, Soviet and East European Politics, and Comparative Politics. Linden’s published works are “Czech Foreign Policy and the Prague Spring,” “Normative Integration in East Europe 1966-1960,” and “East European Interaction Patterns.” Chairman of the Political Science Department, Dr. Proctor, said that Linden ranked first out of the 190 applicants for the job. “We were very pleased he accepted our offer.”