December 2, 1977 Music Review

Refuse to miss the Basie Band

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Count Basie and his Orchestra will perform in Love Auditorium on Friday, December 9, at 8 pm. Don’t miss this
band! Between tremendous rhythm and tenor sections, fine soloists, and the Count himself, with or without cap, it’s the best
jazz show going.

I managed to catch the band in Switzerland this July, at the Montreux Jazz Festival. Oscar Peterson and Joe Pass
were there as well, but the Basie Band took the concert and made it unforgettable. The band is incredibly tight;
they hold a horn line like angels at the apocalypse, showcase first-rate drumming, and the Count wraps up the show
with his piano aphorisms. It really is outrageous.

William "Count" Basie has been a bandleader for forty-two years. Except for 1950-51, when he led a sextet, Basie has
steered a big band the entire time. He played with Jo Jones, Illinois Jacquet, Coleman Hawkins, Earl Warren, and Emmett
Berry, to mention a few, made countless tours of the U.S. and, recently, twelve consecutive tours of Europe. The Basie
Band collected the Down Beat Critic’s Poll Award, “Top Jazz Band,” for four consecutive years, and was invited to play
U.S. President John F. Kennedy’s inaugural ball.

Basie’s band has recorded a series of excellent albums as well, and he has played with and against Oscar Peterson
solo on an incredible record, “Satch and Josh.” Enough. It all just means you should catch this band. Get a
preview if you don’t believe me. Ask Joe Craig to play some Basie on WDAV or borrow an album. But
come. You’ll never forget it.

COUNT BASIE comes on December 9.

Jobs available now

ON DECEMBER 13 many students will be thrown into offices with more awesome responsibilities than they had imagined. Incumbent SGA
President Thom Young talked about the problems he faced upon first going into office. [David Litaker]

By CATHY ANSHELES
Staff Writer

You don’t have to be in financial need to find a job in Davidson according to the very people who
hire or locate jobs for college students. Director of Financial Aid Brenda Parnell said that she posts a list of
available jobs outside of her Chambers 107 office. She also tries to see that job opportunities are printed in the
campus newsletter.

The most common opening is for babysitters, said newsletter editor Linda Daniels. Local businesses provide most of the steady work.
But Daniels said that at times there have been requests from Mooresville shops and even lumber mills.

The local Peregrine House Restaurant employs sixteen college students. Owner Cindy Booker said that any student who wants to work
is welcome to come over and sign up on a waiting list.

ARA Slater hires student dishwashers, servers, bar attendants, and ticket checkers regardless of financial need. Assistant Director Vic Wren explained
that opportunities are usually not abundant except on special weekends. On special weekends, many special serving jobs open up. The
best chance for getting a job with Slater is to apply at the beginning of each term, said Wren. Job
applications may...be found in the basement of Richards House. Student solon has suffered.

By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

One year ago today, Thom Young had never participated in the Student Government Association. Two weeks later he was its
president. Now, because of a change in election procedure, he will soon become the longest-serving SGA President in modern Davidson
history.

Young is not unhappy about this. But he admits that at a school whose academic demands alone can be grueling,
being forced to spend many hours each week as a student leader takes its toll. His grades have dropped. He
believes he has forfeited his chance to get into medical school. He has been forced to deny his personal life.

“Until last spring, I put all of myself into the office. Then I realized that wasn’t fair to me. I’m
starting to allow a lot more time to my personal life. I find myself making new friends again,” Young explained.

“My grades have gone way down. In the long run, it's going to hurt, I think. I hope to graduate
with a pre-med major and with my grades, I could never get into med school. I’m highly regretful of my
grades. One day I may look back and question if it was all worth it. But I can’t help being
an optimist and hope that I’ll look back and think that it was the best thing after all.

“The exact flip-side of the coin is that it has made me grow so much—to learn to deal with different
people, with different mindsets—that I don’t think it’s hurt.

“I enjoy this more than school. I’m not an academic person. It takes a lot more time than I thought
because I enjoy the interpersonal relationships—meeting with students, with faculty, and especially with the Trustees,” Young said.

As SGA President, he is entitled to attend Trustee meetings. “It’s such a pleasure to me, it’s not work even.
The people on the Senate make it easy for me. The rewards are so great.

“Sure it’s stressful, but like every student here I enjoy the challenge of balancing my time. There’s a certain competitiveness
just in setting my priorities,” he said.

When Young first took over the presidency, he found himself lacking some of the experience he needed to do his
job the way that he thought it should be done. He received many late-night meetings with preceding SGA President Bo
Baskin in one of the dead-end halls on the second floor of the library, meetings in which he would shower
Baskin with every question he could think of concerning the SGA.

At first, he admitted that his office frightened him. “It scared me. I looked at it as one hell of
an obligation to do as much as I could,” he said. But with time, he has gained his own experience.

Young is anticipating his extra weeks in office. “It’s a challenge to me to keep going another quarter. I hope
I can keep at it with all the vigor that I’ve gone at it with for the last three quarters.
I’m also starting to study,” he said with a grin.
