September 8, 1978

STUDENTS CROWDED the front of Belk Dorm Thursday to select their telephones delivered by Southern Bell (Gregg Strader). The renovation of Martin Chemistry Building is the largest of the building projects undertaken on campus during the summer. Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze anticipates that the $1 million remodeling project will be completed for Fall Term 1979. Meanwhile, Chemistry classes are being held in Chambers; the Chemistry library has been moved to the basement of the E. H. Little Library, and labs will continue in the same building through Winter Term.

New doctors begin service (Continued from page 1)

Charlotte Memorial Hospital. He is completing his residency requirements in pediatrics and should be ready to start his practice in Davidson by the beginning of the year, according to Terry. Both men are already living in Davidson. Terry said that Hunt is handling the infirmary sick call during the week, between 3 and 5 p.m. each day, and that Williams is relieving him at least some of the time on weekends. The Saturday sick call will be from 1 to 2 p.m. and the Sunday will run from 7 to 8 p.m. These times were carefully chosen on the basis of a questionnaire which was distributed just before the end of the spring term. Hunt said he was very pleased with the questionnaire response—he said over a hundred students took the time to fill them out—and hopes to take some of the suggestions to heart. Hunt said that many women complained of a lack of gynecological counseling. Both he and Williams feel comfortable in this area, he said, because of their experience with internal medicine and will be able to help. “One thing I really want to request from the students is open communication. I'd be happy to talk to any group,” said Hunt.

Students forced to increase classical (Continued from page 1)

Classical programming on WDAV currently takes up about 83 percent of air time. This past summer the WDAV Board of Directors, a student/faculty/administration group charged with establishing policy for the station, agreed to increase classical programming to 50 percent of air time by this November 15. Thompson and his staff also questioned a Department of Communications document released this week which says that in Spring 1977 the Board of Directors agreed that WDAV shall broadcast “a variety of programs in keeping with the standards of good taste and a college’s duty to raise the cultural level of its community.”

Changes proposed CRC sets meeting

By SHERI GRAVETT
Asst. Editorial Editor

Among his recommendations for changes in the Davidson constitution, College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. has proposed that both the Council of Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) and the Council for Finance, Personnel, and Development (CFPD) be divided into separate councils. A Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) composed of Trustees Price Gwynn, Walter Lingle, and J. Dickson Phillips, SGA President Bruce Brown, Vice President Pro-Tempore of the Faculty John Kelton, and Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann will meet September 27 to discuss Spencer’s proposals plus any submitted by the faculty, staff, or student body. All proposals must be turned in to the President's office by September 20. According to Spencer, the spread of functions covered by these councils is too great. Therefore, he has suggested that the CCRL be split into the Advisory Council on Religious Policy and the Advisory Council on Campus Life while the CFPD be divided into the Advisory Council for Finance and Personnel and the Advisory Council for Development. These new councils would parallel those of the Trustees, thus providing more cooperation and opportunity for joint service and involvement by students and faculty. After the meeting on September 27, the CRC will decide which suggestions should be put in the form of recommended amendments and put in motion the suggested revisions. These amendments will be taken before the Board of Trustees. After discussion and comments solicited from the faculty, staff, and students, the amendments will be finalized.student body, a two-thirds vote of the Board is required to adopt an amendment, with a primary emphasis on classical music.” Thompson and past station manager Sid Barret said the Board had never adopted such a policy in the spring. “The statement we (the Board) adopted never said anything about a primarily classical emphasis,” stated Thompson. Both hinted that the “primarily classical” clause had been inserted during the summer without Board approval.

Roberts, author of the document containing the disputed policy statement, later acknowledged her uncertainty that the “primarily classical” clause had been approved by the Board. When she was gathering information on the radio station this summer, “Don Lovell handed me a sheet of papers that were a revised policy and guidelines sheet. It was my impression that that had been passed through the Board.” She said that she did not confirm that impression and is now uncertain of its accuracy.

The students also balked at a statement in the Department of Communications document which holds that FCC approval of the station’s recent switch to 18,500 watts was based on the criteria that WDAV would be a primarily classical music station. WDAV Educational Director Mary Frances Leopold reported that they had called FCC officials and received assurances that the Commission is not concerned with a station's particular type of programming. After the meeting, Roberts said that she had received her information about the FCC grant from News Director Buck Lawrimore and wanted to check further into the question of FCC criteria.

After addressing these specific points, Thompson complained of the administration's neglect of student concerns in radio station policymaking. “We must have fair treatment in the operation of this station. The communication with regard to honesty and straightforwardness has been a miserable failure. It is important that everyone be fully informed of what's happening,” he said. Board Member and staffer Janet Coleman echoed Thompson’s concerns that administrative decisions about the radio station are being made without student input. “Maybe there is an honest communications gap, but I think we have tried to close that gap. Someone is certainly resisting closing this gap. We are not part of decisions, we are told what decisions have been made. Since my freshman year, we have worked out compromises with Dr. Parks, Buck Lawrimore, and Mrs. Roberts (all Board members) on many occasions, but Dr. Spencer has constantly said no way,” Coleman said.

Director of the Library Leland Park, who also attended the meeting, said “I don’t really believe anyone is out to deceive or be dishonest with you. I don’t want to leave the picture that someone is out to screw you. I would be very surprised if you were required to go over 50 percent (classical).”

At the conclusion of the meeting, Thompson asked Roberts to obtain an official statement from the administration for today’s previously scheduled WDAV Board of Directors meeting to clarify the amount of classical programming that WDAV must schedule by November 15. “Please prepare us a statement saying that until we have discussed the matter with the Trustees, no more than 50 percent of the programming will be classical,” Thompson said sternly. Thompson also asked that the administration’s statement explain the selection of 80 percent classical programming and clarify how the ‘primary emphasis on classical music’ phrase came to be inserted in the WDAV Statement of Purpose and Policy. Roberts said that she “will ask Dr. Spencer to advise me how he wants to respond.”

Thompson and other staff members plan to approach the Trustees in their Homecoming meeting regarding their vote last spring to fund a primarily classical station. He points out, “To serve our audience means serving all rather than only those who contributed the money. We don’t want a predominance of any musical form. We must meet the true, diverse needs of the community.” (Gregg Stralter)