February 17, 1978

The Davidsonian

Indignant that the master’s music would be interrupted, the cook [Mark Duckett] and waiter [Frank Bencini] stand beside Franz Schubert [Luke Van-Gilder] and his violin. Bovasso’s “Schubert’s Last Serenade” showing 7 pm tonight and Friday. Dollar at the door. [David Litaker]

It’s nothing but a fishbowl

I was going to the KA disco the other night and wasn’t going to let on that I didn’t know much about drinking. Then I was going to ask a good-looking girl to dance and wasn’t going to let on that I didn’t know how. If she declined the offer, I was going to ask another, on down the line until...

So I went to the ETC dessert party instead. Sitting docilely at a corner table, glutting myself with cookies and cake while inattentively hearing the Davidson-Duke game on the radio, I was suddenly grabbed by the conversation. Two of the girls at the table had gotten back personality tests that morning and were laughing over the results.

“For the most part it just told me what I already knew about myself,” said the sophomore brunette at my side. “On tests like that, I always accept the part I agree with and forget the rest. For instance, it said I was an extrovert and I already knew that. But it said that I was unwilling to do things outside of my own circle of friends and that’s just not true. I do do things with other people.”

“But that’s strictly in terms of your own self-image. You admit that,” said the junior boy at her other side.

“Why, yes. But there were other scores that I was less certain about. According to the results, I’m much more willing to receive affection than to give it.”

“Mine said the same thing,” admitted the other test-taker, as if she had been harboring the fact all afternoon and was relieved to find she did not stand alone.

“I think that’s pretty characteristic of the human race. Especially at Davidson,” said another. “I mean look over there. There’s a whole table of girls without a date on a Saturday night. Just because they don’t fit within the narrow mold accepted by the average Davidson man, they don’t have a thing to do.”

“That doesn’t have anything to do with the Davidson man being unwilling to give affection,” said the junior boy, who happened to be a hall counselor. “There are a lot of guys on my hall who would really like to date if this place weren’t such a fishbowl. I mean, they take a girl out one time and everybody knows it. Three times and stories start going around about them being in love.”

Everybody stopped for a while and thought. I dropped a piece of coconut cake.

Another Window

“Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses and their respective phone numbers,” I was going to offer, nervous that the bent of the conversation was coming a little too close to stepping on the toes of my own personal insecurities. But I thought better of it.

Not one week has gone by since I first set foot on this campus that I haven't heard somebody whining about the social life at Davidson. I’ve done my share. Who hasn’t? It’s scratched in pretty frank terminology on all the bathroom walls. There’ve even been a few bad commentaries on it in this newspaper.

Maybe it’s because so many Davidson students have such a long string of accomplishments hanging in their past that everybody is intimidated by everyone else. I don’t know. I wish I did.Book on Oral College History
By DAVID HUIE
Staff Writer

Senior Warren Soule has a special problem. He’s not just worried about his next review or when the laundry is going to get through with his clothes. He’s worried that the sources for his next book are drying up.

Soule’s been working on a history of the College since he stepped on campus three years ago. As a three-year student, he has to cram his research between four courses every term. For the typically slack Davidson student, this might seem impossible. It becomes even more difficult when some of the best sources are growing old and dying.

Obtaining material is hard. “There are records floating around but nothing has been done with them. And so I have been floating around and collecting notes and talking to people and interviewing hither and yon. But primarily because of lack of time and, secondarily, lack of funds, that hasn’t been going very far and I don’t exactly know what is going to happen to this. But I’m trying to put it together in some sort of manageable form,” he explained.

While the initial idea was his, Chalmers Davidson prodded him along. Soule indicated that while the college is not officially backing the book, they will probably publish it if he submits a polished product.

“What I was concerned with was primarily from an oral history technique, finding out not just things that you could get from reading old Davidsonians, but impressions of people who were students at the time,” Warren elaborated. “Finding out what life was like both from staff people too, which are, I guess, mainly ignored, but they have an entirely different perspective on Davidson.”

In addition to this new undertaking, Soule has authored the book, "History of the Episcopal Church in North Mecklenburg from 1890 to the Present," which is now at the printers. Admitting the esoteric nature of the book, Soule added that “it was an interesting subject because the church is in a town that is more or less controlled by the Presbyterians. It is seen as a funny little church on a side street where people do crazy things.”

As a three-year student who has also served as Davidsonian business manager and SGA chancellor, Soule explained his interest in writing: “If I had to confine myself to those four courses I’d go crazy. It has required me to get out and meet people. It was an outlet. It was a chance to get out and meet people,” he said.

Motivated by curiosity, Soule also chose to spend three weeks in a Catholic monastery in Wisconsin. Soule added that his experience with the monastic life had nothing to do with his decision to come to Davidson.

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and VD treatment. But we don’t preach. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. The way we figure it, sparing you a sermon is one of them.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte,
951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.