The Davidsonian

Pamela Camerra, Acting Editor
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager

Volume LXVII, Number Twenty-four
April 21, 1978

Crucial fifteen pages

A fifteen-page document was released to the faculty last week. When passed in its final form, that document, the proposed faculty code of evaluation, shall have a tremendous impact on Davidson College. For years to come, the regulations in the code will determine who teaches at Davidson, how they shall be judged, and how long they will stay. The power that the document carries will cause some apprehension, but the recent dismissal of Dr. Devon painfully illustrated the critical need for such a document.

When policy is established, there is sometimes a tendency to rush into the new procedures without examining the full implications. Such an incident must not happen with this code. Recent events surrounding the ouster of Dr. Devon have caused apprehension among some members of the younger faculty. Charges of “intimidation” have been made against the administration. A truly outstanding faculty simply cannot be built under an aura of intimidation. Thus, it is imperative that these young professors be satisfied with the document. Only the senior members of the faculty can ensure that satisfaction. Unfortunately, confidence in the senior faculty is at a low ebb, also. Where were the professors when Dr. Devon was dismissed? Why did not the professors offer some suggestions to Dr. Zimmermann when he was writing the code? Many professors are prone to complain about the apathy of students. But why cannot these same professors show some concern about events that affect their colleagues? Perhaps an apathetic faculty could be tolerated. However, a hypocritical faculty does not deserve toleration. It can only be hoped that the faculty will show a real interest in the code by carefully scrutinizing every sentence, at least for the benefit of the younger professors and the students who study under them.

No one expects such a lengthy document to be perfect. Everyone will have a different opinion. But several portions of the proposed code deserve close consideration by the entire college community before approval:

First, there is a continuing problem concerning Christian commitment. Davidson College went through a painful experience last year with the Linden Affair. It seems, from reading the draft copy of the code, that the experience has been forgotten. According to the proposed code, a person must, before becoming a faculty member here, accept Davidson’s Statement of Purpose which “recognizes God as the source of all truth” and “sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order and value to the whole life.” The College is holding up a clear sign that discourages non-Christians from seeking appointment here. At the boycott last spring, Visiting Professor Pat Edmondson said something that is still applicable: “It is my understanding that the way the Lord works through his community is by drawing people to him through the power of this love and not by drawing lines around and saying ‘We don’t let people in who are not already followers of Christ before they come in.’” Davidson cannot profess to be a truly liberal arts college if it closes its doors to those of non-Western and non-traditional views.

The second major problem concerns the status of untenured faculty members. These faculty members are excluded from the process of hiring new professors. According to the proposed code, “The candidate will be interviewed by the tenured members of the appropriate department or departments as well as the department chairman, the (Vice-President for Academic Affairs), and the President.” No mention is made of an active role for untenured faculty members in evaluation. If the College has hired someone, regardless of whether tenure has been achieved, should not they be competent enough to have a voice in the workings of their department? Surely, the professors do not magically become competent the minute tenure is granted. By denying these newer professors the opportunity to participate fully in the building of the College faculty, the code stifles the new perspectives and innovative ideas the new faculty bring with them. This is a strange way indeed of gaining the trust of the untenured faculty.

The third area of concern regards the fifth criterion for faculty evaluation: “the capacity to exemplify by personal witness the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands.” “Witness” is a strong word, stronger than “accept” or even “support.” And who determines what are the “intellectual and moral values” of the College? Judging an individual’s ethical and moral values is a tremendous responsibility. Those who sit in judgment must not be dogmatic in dictating our community’s ethical standards: a liberal arts college thrives on a diversity in its beliefs.

Another clause that has aroused much concern is...the criterion demanding “support” of established faculty policies.” Must a faculty member conform to every policy in order to keep his position secure? If established faculty policies are wrong or outdated, what vehicle is there for change? Obviously, the complexity of the faculty evaluation process makes it impossible to come up with a perfectly objective statement. The responsibility for having a meaningful code rests with the entire college community. We challenge each segment of the community to assume that responsibility.
—Pam Camerra

Letter to the Editor

Premeds get shaft on MCAT test site

To the Editor:
On April 15, 80 premedical students from Davidson and surrounding colleges were forced to take the Medical College Admissions Test, a long, difficult eight-hour test of critical importance to medical school applicants, on minuscule desks in a crowded lecture room in Dana because Dr. Herb Jackson refused to allow the test to be taken in Room 100 of Chambers. The test was scheduled to be taken there, as always; the official admission tickets stated that it would be so; but, because the Romare Bearden exhibit was in the gallery, use of the room was denied, despite the premedical advisor’s objections. The exhibit could have been moved aside temporarily; it was not. The gallery was locked during the examination period.

This is not the first time Dr. Jackson has asserted this type of authority over the gallery. It was funded and built with the intention that it would be a multi-purpose facility; but it is not used thus. Although exhibits such as Bearden’s are undoubtedly of importance, Davidson must ask itself whether it values more its academic reputation, or its cultural status.
J. Eric Roskos ’79
Davidson College

Letter to the Editor

Peeples criticized

To the Editor:
I did not like Bill Peeples’ treatment of the ROTC Department last week. To say that the slant of your column was severe, that you were at times misinformed, or that your criticisms are threadbare understates the issue. What irks me is that, under the guise of writing an unbiased features article on the department, you interviewed its members, whose opinions were given with this in mind, then turned their comments against them in a naive, if unkind, way. Deception is poor journalism. Criticism where it is not due is unwise.

May I now set some issues straight. Military officers, I am told, are always addressed by their titles. Captain, Colonel, whatever. Never do they go by “professor.” Could someone you interviewed have pulled your leg? Or was it pulled from the air? Another point: The ROTC Department is not unique in its policy of saluting only when in uniform. This is Army, not Davidson policy. If mentioning this was an attempt to show that Davidson ROTC is deviant or slack in its operation, I am afraid I need more convincing. Relating ROTC’s goal of adventure to Boy Scout recruiting posters will convince me no better. In fact, having been a Scout, it rather annoys me. The Scouts are one of the few exceptionally fine groups around. It provides adventure for those who would otherwise not get the chance. In any case, I think Scouts neither need nor deserve your criticism.

Finally, Bill, I am surprised at your pessimism. If someone joins ROTC with the ambition of getting to the moon, he or she should be commended, not ridiculed. There is no reason to think that with determination (which Davidson students are known for) this individual will not get there. Our age fosters these dreams. That we will see projects like colonization of the moon come to pass will be more due to the optimism and determination of this “dreamer” than to your impotent gripes. It seems that that person with that goal in mind took a logical step by joining ROTC in fulfilling that goal. Does this make ROTC a joke? I think not.
Marshall Waddell ’80

LYMAN A. COLLINS, II
Editor

BILL BARNETT
Managing Editor

HARRY GREYARD
News Editor

DAVE NACE
Features Editor

DENNIS MCLAWHORN
Sports Editor

ESTHER BRUCE
Editorial Page Editor

BARRY SACHTIEN
Photography Editor

BILL PEEPLES
Assignments Editor

GEORGE MURDAUGH
Graphics Editor

ANN GARNER
Art Editor

PATSY DANIELS
Production Manager

MARGARET MILES
Copy Editor

DAVID LITAKER
Circulation Manager

AMANDA HALL
Advertising Manager

DAVID ISENHOWER
Assistant Advertising Manager

IGNACIO LOPEZ
Assistant Circulation Manager

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second-class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C. 28036.