May 5, 1978 The Davidsonian

Equestrian sport lives among college students

By NANCY MCNAIR
Staff Writer

Although horses are new to Davidson College, a number of Davidson students have logged hours of riding time in the show ring. Most participate in some aspect of jumping, either in hunt classes, fox hunting, or open hunting. Freshman Gregg Smart prefers the open jumping competitions as well as Medal Classes. Depending on the state rules, a rider who wins one or two medals may compete in the national finals at Harrisburg or the A.S.P.C.A Maclay finals in Madison Square Garden, New York.

Basically, the results of an open jumper class are objective. Faults are given for knocking down bars and the time also becomes a factor. The horses may be called for a height jump-off as well. Both Smart and freshman Debbie Carlton remarked on the element of subjectivity in hunter and medal classes. Because the judging is made on the basis of style as well as successful execution of the course, the judging becomes a matter of “which horse the judge likes best or which rider the judge likes best,” said Carlton.

Carlton, who has competed in medal classes and the Maclay finals, cited this partiality on the part of the judges as a reason for discontinuing her successful show career. “When it got to the point when it wasn't fun, that’s when I quit. It wasn't fun when the judging got to be too political. It got to be who you rode with, or how much money you had. A lot of times I won when I shouldn't have. A lot of times I lost when I shouldn't have.”

Although Virginia Dummit has ridden hunters before, she finds dressage to be the basis for all else. “You’re trying to develop a horse that is balanced. Horses naturally balance on the forehand and you're trying to shift the balance to the hindquarters to free the forehand for elasticity.” The result is “something like ballet,” she added.

Katherine Whitney, who has been active in the Davidson riding program, has gotten into fox hunting. What she enjoys most about it is “the gallops. It’s usually a good fairly fast ride, and the countryside is beautiful.” Through her stable work, she has been able to ride with Richmond’s Deep Run Hunt.

Riding project grows

By SALLEY SUMMEY
Staff Writer

Dust flying, manes flowing, a flurry of color... stand clear!—it’s feeding time at the barn! An assortment of seven versatile mares and geldings now enjoy a comfortable new barn and a generous expanse of pasture (equipped with its own “water hole”) located about five miles south of Davidson off Highway 115.

The horse program at Davidson College has seen a courageous and successful start thanks to the combined efforts of Katherine Whitney, Sterling Martin, and Diane Brown. Between ten and twelve students are taking advantage of the riding lessons that are offered for the first time this term. Pupils are taught by capable and patient Davidson College students on weekday and Saturday afternoons.

The stables are currently managed by eighteen volunteer students from the College who are under the supervision of Katherine Whitney. The volunteers go out weekly and clean stalls, feed, water, and care for the animals. But there is more to the Davidson College Stables than fences and stalls. Any visitor will surely meet the barn cats that prowl in the hayloft, yet inevitably manage to get underfoot.

Yes, they go after real foxes. “We do not have drag hunts, neither do we let out a fox and chase that.” She added that they rarely do catch a fox. Of the Davidson program, she said, “We’re considering joining the Mecklenburg Hunt Club and we'd like to go to a few local shows next year.”

“Horse showing is one of the few sports where men and women can compete equally,” said Cindy Curtis. “But the horse that does well has what we called in our barn ‘the look of the Eagles,’ that little something extra.”extra something.” Many of the riders choose thoroughbreds for dressage and jumping events. “Horses off the track are our best source of good horses. The horseracing industry takes them when they're babies and destroys them, and we have to pick up the pieces and put them back together again,” Dummit said. Under Vaughn William's guidance, Curtis helped bring a moderately successful racehorse, Mister Demeanor, away from his abused nervousness to a position as one of the top Grand Prix horses in the country. After working him a year on the flat and making a slow gradual progression through small jumping and cross-country riding, he became a success. “After eight shows placing high in every class, then specialized training, his worth went up ten-fold,” she said. Slow, patient training proves the best for the horse. Dummit states that classical dressage in the style of the Lipizzans of the Spanish Riding School in Vienna “is not very popular because like all good things it takes time. And Americans like instant things. Instant coffee and instant dressage.” “Ideally a horse has never finished training,” Dummit added. “Every time you get on a horse you are either training or untraining him.” Communication with the horse is subtle. “I use my voice a lot with my young horses. As your relationship gets older you don’t need your voice. He can feel it through your body. The hands and legs can say yes or no.”

The horses themselves are quite special. “Chantilly”—white, graceful, and gentle enough for the terrified beginner—occupies the “corner room.” Warlock, the guy down the hall—frisky and mischievous, and Montego Bay, the thoroughbred who hates to be tied, are other inhabitants. Autumn is the small dotted Appaloosa who is as nice to look at as she is to ride and who is enough to charm even the allergic horse-hater. But Wendy surprised the whole gang by giving birth to an adorable foal Monday night. “I thought she looked a little fat!” commented Cynthia Barron, a Sunday morning volunteer.

Whitney is hopeful about the future. “I would like to see good progress with the riding lessons, spaces open for boarders for students or people in this area, and maybe participation in local jump-in competition.” Smart describes his relationship with his mount as that of “co-competitor.” Curtis likes the ultimate unity of jumping. Of her thoroughbred mare, Chances Are Rosey, she stated, “She didn’t do it by herself, we worked together. It was a partnership.” “Most people that I respect look at horses as individuals,” Curtis added. “Horses are proud. They know when they've done well.”

Horseshowing has been called the sport of kings; some say that it takes a king’s ransom to keep up a horse. “It’s amazing. Between blacksmith, vet, and feed it’s expensive even to keep a horse at home,” Whitney observed. “And when you must consider vanning, entry fees, stabling, possibly even a motel room, and braiding,” the figure skyrockets. “They offer money in open jumper, but you can’t expect to break even,” added Smart. Whitney cited the cost of outfitting a rider in a hunt. “A regular (non-custom) jacket—$110. Boots—$100. (Custom-made boots $200.) Hard hat—$30. Breeches—$50. Shirt—$10. White stock tie—$7. Gloves—$5.”

Most of the Davidson riders have been around horses for years. Curtis initially traded stable chores for riding lessons. Later her parents gave her and her sister a horse for Christmas. Despite the fact that she has never owned a horse, Whitney has ridden for 17 years. Under the influence of parents who had lived in Lexington, Ky., surrounded by horses, Dummit received her first horse at age six and rode with pony clubbers thereafter. Between high school and college, she spent a year at the Frankfurter Reitschule in Germany. The riders hope to continue riding in some fashion. Carlton is “thinking about student judging and getting my judging card.” Smart would like to train jumpers. “People groan when I walk in here with my boots, but going to our stables here is like going to another world,” said Curtis.