April 21, 1978

The Davidsonian

PROFESSOR OF Political Philosophy Carl Cohen shared his views with Davidson students for two days this week. He came here as a Reynolds lecturer. (Laura Moses)

Cohen discusses basic civil rights, freedoms

(Continued from page 1)

Also, forbidding the march would violate the group’s First Amendment right to freedom of speech, as well as their right “peacefully to assemble.” Philosophically, Dr. Cohen disagrees with the Nazi holocaust and aggression of World War II. However, he believes that a march staged by Nazis would relive the Nazi terror. Reminding the nation of this tragic episode, said Cohen, would be the best way to make certain the event is not repeated.

Rimers hits Hodson

Langford Wilson portrays small-town life, emphasizing the hypocrisy and self-illusion of the inhabitants, in his play “The Rimers of Eldritch” which the Davidson College Drama Department will present on April 28 and 29, and on May 4, 5, and 6. Directed by Drama professor Joseph Gardner, the play presents the reactions of a small town in the mid-west to ‘invasions’ from outside its tight, close circle. The characters have personalities of their own, but as a whole, the town itself has a definite and frighteningly predictable personality. Performances begin at 8:15 in Hodson Hall and cost $2.50. Reservations for tickets may be made at 892-2000, ext. 340 weekday afternoons.

“Hot L Baltimore,” a recent hit play, is another of Wilson’s works. Among the cast of townspeople are Laurie Campbell as Eva, a young cripple, Paul Schleifer as Skelly, a notorious hermit, and Tom Cairns, Rusk scholar, as a drifter stopping in the town for a while.

Cohen advocated discrimination in certain cases, while opposing it in others. In the case of a country club, for example, discrimination is permissible. Cohen explained that no unique opportunity would exist for a special interest group in such a situation. He added that people have a basic freedom to choose their friends as well as leisure activities. The formation of a private club is therefore the right of a group of individuals, and with that right goes a freedom to establish group policy. People have a right to persuade others to their cause. Forceful coercion, however, is morally wrong, Cohen said.

Cohen argued for the existence of private educational institutions, also. He said that federal aid to private schools of all degrees is justifiable so long as discrimination is not exercised in any form. However, were a school like Davidson to receive special federal aid, then the government would not only have a right but would be obligated to regulate the funding to avoid discrimination. Cohen added that Davidson's Christian tenure is no less than a joke and is morally wrong.

Economics hosts Willis

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

“George Willis,” said a Davidson observer, “looks like he ought to work for the Department of the Treasury.” And in fact, Mr. Willis is a Treasury career officer, having been associated with the department since 1945. With a Woodrow Wilson Fellow and a Reynolds Lecturer on campus this week, Mr. Willis is in the comfortable position of...receiving limited publicity. Such attention is not fair to a man who is Deputy to the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury and also the nation’s leading authority on international monetary affairs. Describing his position at the Treasury Department in an exclusive Davidsonian interview, Mr. Willis said his “special field of work is the International Monetary Fund (IMF).” Said Willis, “I do not have a staff but serve as advisor to the Assistant Secretary.” His job involves connections with the State Department, CIA, and Federal Reserve Board. The Under Secretary, whom he advises, keeps in constant touch with other nations, and Mr. Willis, though humility prevents him from admitting the fact, plays an important role in the international monetary decisions. Mr. Willis’ position keeps him on the go constantly. For instance, the latter part of April will bring a world-wide meeting of international officials in Mexico City. These twenty men will represent over 100 member nations of the IMF.

The Davidsonian asked Mr. Willis numerous questions concerning the Carter Administration’s foreign economic policy. With a new administration in the White House, Mr. Willis surprisingly reported that “the Secretary (Blumenthal) has made it clear that there will be no immediate major changes in policy. The United States,” he said, “will intervene with moderate force in foreign exchange markets.” With the exceptions of Japan, West Germany, and Switzerland, the nations of the world are concerned with exchange rates because they have to. The United States is not. Despite contrary reports in the American press, the United States is in a sound financial position abroad. Explains Willis, “So many countries handle their deficits with dollars.”

An extremely modest man, Mr. Willis was reluctant to accept credit for his understanding of America’s economic problems. However, such knowledge is impossible to suppress. Mr. Willis gave The Davidsonian some interesting comments about Special Drawing Rights (SDRs), a service provided by the IMF, in which he is an expert. “Special Drawing Rights,” says Professor of Economics Charles Ratliff, “are paper gold internationally.” When questioned about SDRs, Mr. Willis noted that their allocation to Less Developed Nations takes a back seat to other services provided by the Treasury Department. As Mr. Willis views the situation, the U.S. emphasizes problems with commodities and energy. Said Willis, “We are trying to give practical meaning to common financial arrangements for commodities programs.” These programs operate through the United Nations and U.S. government departments. “The best way to negotiate these programs,” noted Willis, “is to handle individual commodities through common agreement, with exchange between consumers and producers.” The aid granted by America to the Less Developed Nations is not as much as they want but is the most practical for all involved,” Willis commented. “The IMF has funds to stabilize prices (see WILLIS, pages ) ny)

Bes p Y a» Se 0 Ul KK kk it 50°

Celebrate Spring at the Peregrine House Thursday afternoon (April 20th) Cancelled - Due to the weather. Rescheduled for 5-8 April 27th all the Brew you want - Come over. Band and QR

KKKKKKKKKKKKKK KHAKI HRI KKK KEK KEKE EKEKEKEKKKKERKEKEREKRERKEREKK Mrkkkkk kkk kik