October 27, 1978

The Davidsonian

New format unveiled BB & Billustrate IMAC pertc

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

According to the latest Nielsen ratings, the BB&B column has dropped precipitously, and in an attempt to revitalize our standings,
we have adopted a completely new format. We promise that it is an original idea and is not plagiarized like
most of our work in the past.

FACES IN THE CROWD

Pp Turley Howard—Sophomore with a noted likeness to John Belushi who bought a new pair of blue hightop Converse Allstars
and kicked a gray-striped cat 45 yards into the path of a parked meat grinder.

Profile Dominick—This young freshman went to three classes, the post office, the library, twice to Richards House, and four times
to the bathroom all in one day.

Tony “Tut” Langley—Led the King Tuts to the 1978 Frosh Flickerball championship. In his team’s nine games this year, “Tut”
dropped seven passes, fumbled twice, and told four “Mr. Bill” jokes.

Rich Dibenedetto—This 6'7” New Jersey native once killed a calf with his bare hands and then dunked its remains through
a 5-inch steel hoop at the 1973 Bergenfield rodeo.

Mott Blair—Recently voted “Preppiest student at Davidson.” This young chemist completed his gravimetric analysis experiment in a record overall time
of 23 hours 36 minutes 28.6534 seconds.

Bill Peeples—This 5’8” junior is at best just another face in the crowd.

THEY SAID IT

Joan Redding, freshman coed, on finding out her name was in the week’s BB&B column: “They don’t even know me.
Why did they mention my name?”

Brad Walker, former Davidson student-athlete, when asked why he made two F’s and a D one term last year: “I
guess I devoted too much time to one subject.”

Robert Monteith, noted Davidson janitor, on how he likes his job at Davidson: “Hee, hee, yea, ha, aah, aah, go
on now.”

Boa Callcott after Captain Cohab and Frankie's Baby Boas lost to McFleet: “Chomp!”

Page Walley, senior fullback, on setting the Davidson career rushing record: “I never could have done it if on all
those third and long passing situations we hadn’t given the football to the fullback up the middle.”

Tom Carrington after WDAV decided to go to 100 percent silent music: “The students need a sound that is conducive
to studying.”

Coach Jeff Frank, tailback for the Old Men, on the secret to his team’s success: “We rely heavily on Geritol
and Preparation H.”

Fred Goodwin, cheerleader, on how he got the nickname Hardware: “I never really thought about it. I guess I just
woke up one morning and it was there.”

SCORECARD

Got the Dumps?

In a recent flickerball game, H.S., freshman standout for the King Tuts, provided the halftime entertainment by doing a squat
and drop routine in the nearby woods. Although he continued to stink on offense in the second half, he made
one spectacular play on defense by catching a fart in mid-air. He then ran past a pile of players and
in for the score to wipe away the opposing team’s hopes for victory.

Heard on the Street

The Needle Dix are strong favorites to repeat as IMAC 3 on3 champions... they will face a tough challenge from
Danny H. and Andy Mac... David Jones may have one of the top five on five hoop teams; he picked
up former Cat cager Kirk Combe (6’5”) and 6’3” Rand Malone (1977 All-Freshman team)... Eddie Biedenbach may play hoops with
the SAEs (he was an E at NC State) giving them a stronger team than last year’s squad which won
the IMAC crown... Vince Parker (6’6” leaper) said today that he will play IMAC roundball with Kevin Doherty... Doherty has
already inked 6’1” great Bob Lapple and 6’2” sharpshooter Gifford Piercy... Locke White, lightning-quick guard, has narrowed his choices down
to the SAEs and McFleet... Dave Vaughn, 6’2” Phi Delt zone buster, is still holding out, and reportedly wants to
play on a title contender his senior year.

FEATURE

This week’s feature article is on the flickerball tourney, and when the paper went to the printers Wednesday night it
appeared that the KAs, MacFleet, the Old Men, and the SAEs all had a good chance to win the title.

1) KAs—Still our favorite to win the tourney. Easily the most disciplined and regimented team to take the turf this
year. The Gold team makes up in hustle what they lack in overall talent, and their playbook has been successful
for the past two years. The KAs rolled over 4th Coming 52-0 in their first game of the tourney, and
the defense did not give up a first down. The KAs also downed the King Tuts on Wednesday to make
it into the semis.

2) SAEs—This team has by far and away the best raw talent in the tourney, but has still not smoothed
it all out. Richards is still hurt but will play somewhere. Wheelock has been an adequate sub at tailback, but
lacks the experience of Stroud. The E Baggers tend to be a little too cocky at times, but if they
settle down and play their game they might just carry home the gold after a four-year drought. The Es knocked
off a tough Hurtin’ for Certin’ ball club after a second-half rally spearheaded by Texas Pete Johnston's beautiful interception and
score.

3) MacFleet and Stuff—The big question here is “Can these pros sit?” They are just as experienced as any team
in contention, and have plenty of quick talent on hand, but the problem seems to be they never play enough
tough games in the regular season. To win it all, MacFleet must fully exploit Dave Shi’s talent, and probably have
some luck down the stretch. MacFleet smashed Cap’t Cohab, 61-12, and then nipped the Four Skins to make it to
the semis.

4) The Old Men—The Cinderella team of the final four. We were really surprised by this ball club, but now
they have proven that they have as good a chance as anyone to win the crown. The high point in
their...

Biggest Flop of the Year

Up and pow ke—They came too soon. Well, that’s about all this week, how get out of here, I...

Five most dangerous words in the English language: We want to cure cancer in your lifetime.
