The Davidsonian
February 17, 1978

Pre-meds fight special academic grind to survive
By CATHY ANSHELES
Staff Writer

The first several semesters at Davidson are the most important according to a number of the College’s pre-med students. Dave Hoffman, a junior interested in going into general practice, feels that most students who enter Davidson are capable of being pre-meds, “it just depends on how hard they want to work.” Senior Steve Justus stated that the freshman must first discipline himself towards learning how to study. This in itself often eliminates quite a few students. About half of Hoffman’s freshman hall was pre-med until after the first semester when the number dropped considerably. Sam Weir and Rick Blinkhorn, both seniors, agree that the freshman and sophomore years were the most difficult. After taking the first six pre-med courses, which Weir said are the hardest, the amount of studying time often decreases. Sarah Willcox, another senior biology major, said that her hardest years were when she was a sophomore and junior. The number of hours each pre-med spends with his books varies greatly and depends, of course, on the individual.

What “motivates” a person towards the medical field in the first place? For Willcox, it was a horse that broke its jaw when she was in ninth grade. Justus’ “little seedlings of desire” were confirmed the summer of his junior year. At the Governor’s school, he met his roommate of three years, who talked him into going to Davidson. Having relatives who are doctors or nurses seems to inspire students to go pre-med. Hoffman is from four generations of physicians and his mother is an R.N. Justus’ father is a vet and Blinkhorn’s mother is a nurse. The students stated that having a relative in medicine was not a pressure but rather an opportunity to obtain added experience in the field.

Experience in activities related to medicine was a common characteristic of many of the pre-meds. Willcox “shadowed” an internist in Wilson, N.C., while Blinkhorn worked in a nursing home. His additional work in the emergency and operating rooms of a hospital sparked his interest in surgery and internal medicine. Hoffman, now working in the Mooresville Hospital Emergency Room and with the Red Cross, spent a week with a cardiovascular surgeon at the University of Pittsburgh. This extern program was great, especially because he was able to work so closely with the physician, even being with the doctor as he informed a terminally ill cancer patient of her condition.

Gil Cuthbertson, interested in pediatrics, has not only had hospital experience but spends a lot of time with kids. He is a YMCA step-tutor and a basketball coach and said that he really gets along well with the children. Freshman Brett Storm is also interested in becoming a pediatrician. Despite the many activities involved in the freshman year, Storm says he studies hard and finds “every course a challenge.”

Many of the pre-med majors, familiar with programs at other schools, cited advantages and disadvantages of Davidson. Hoffman admitted that both Penn State and University of Pittsburgh have more facilities than Davidson but that the students rarely have a chance to use them. Classes are extremely large and professors difficult to reach. Undergraduate assistants often teach courses which Hoffman says is unfair because “they pay for professors but don’t get them.” A big advantage Cuthbertson found at Chapel Hill and University of Florida was the lighter workload. “Davidson, on the other hand, better prepares the student for the heavy workload in med school, in addition to having a ‘name’.” Sam Weir, interested in missionary medicine, described the biggest advantage of Davidson as being the pre-med “major.” Debbie Oehler, a sophomore and possible pre-med major, says that she...knows that the competition in her state (New York) universities is tough. "People are unwilling to help others with the work and this extends throughout the school, not limited to pre-meds." Hoffman labeled this "the cut-throat pre-med syndrome" and says it occurs in most large schools. The sabotage of experiments, theft of notebooks, and lack of camaraderie is why pre-med Hans Cowan transferred from Johns Hopkins after his freshman year. The time for hearing from medical schools is approaching with some of the pre-meds already accepted. Weir got into Duke, which he said is his first choice, and Justus, interested in geriatrics, was accepted at Chapel Hill. Weir strongly emphasized the importance of getting med school applications in early. "This is one thing you shouldn’t procrastinate," he says, and is convinced that is why he got into Duke.

Applying to the schools is just one of the important features of the pre-med’s junior year. The pre-med practice interviews and the pre-med recommendations are two important parts of working towards med school. Willcox explained that the interviews give the student a chance to be asked typical interview questions and to be evaluated and advised by professors and students on the committee. Professor James M. Frederickson, Chairman of the Pre-med Department, stressed that these interviews are not graded or sent to the schools. The recommendations, however, are sent to the individual’s school choices and do contain "a certain element of confidentiality." They are based on the student’s GPA, activities, autobiography, and recommendations from professors and advisors. Frederickson said that he is "amazed that where a person’s future is involved there is so much procrastination." The pre-med committee has had several meetings and has mailed out letters requesting needed information from the pre-meds. "The deadline was supposed to be December but out of 80 pre-meds, only approximately 44 have completed the data." Frederickson said this delay obviously causes a delay in the completion of the recommendations.

The life of the pre-med is not restricted merely to books; there is still time to "play the fool." Willcox is involved in intramurals and Hoffmann stays busy with PIKA community projects. Cuthbertson is editor of the yearbook and sophomore Gwen Dotts says her "booming social life is the only thing that keeps me going." She likes to stay in touch with people because "medicine is definitely people-oriented." Justus confessed that as an SAE he "really gets into frat activities," and despite calling himself a "social weirdo," Weir enjoys playing a lot of pool with his friends. Blinkhorn is not only FIJI president but also plays second base for the Davidson baseball team and continually stresses the importance of "people awareness."

A number of the pre-meds praised Davidson’s liberal arts program. Hoffmann advises the pre-med to take Humanities, pointing out that "it kills a lot of time but it rounds out a lot of things." Cuthbertson admitted that his view of medicine has changed from being "profession-minded" to more humanistic and idealistic. He advocates the "whole" patient approach and hopes preventative medicine will be the way of the future. Willcox is another pre-med who doesn’t approve of over-specialization and warns that all physician roles are not "Ben Casey." Weir’s philosophy is to take as few sciences here as possible and to cram in the liberal arts because "you'll be getting the sciences later." Justus again strongly recommended fraternity activities as an outlet for the pre-med and is eager to offer personal advice to pre-meds. Blinkhorn finds that Davidson students are often too grade-conscious and miss out on a lot that goes on around campus. He insists that there is great importance in "getting out and benefiting from what the school has to offer."