AD. Vol. LXVII, No. EIGHTEEN

Eating house lottery moves ‘smoothly’

By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

“Mechanically things went very well with self-selection,” said Dean of Student Will Terry. Last week 303 freshmen sought places in the ten eating houses on Patterson Court. A new lottery-type procedure sorted students into houses of their choice.

“I think it went much more smoothly and quietly,” said President of the Patterson Court Council Katherine Bridges. “I think more people got where they wanted to eat than last year. I also believe the houses got people who were really interested in their particular house,” she added.

However, there were some problems. “One of the problems was that sheets were not shuffled as well as they should have been,” said Terry. As a result, only six out of 26 freshmen from first Richardson and only six girls from first Cannon got into an eating house. Barry Krieble, who lives on first Richardson, explained that his hall counselors turned in their forms before any other hall had. “The first people on our hall to be selected were the people who turned their sheets in last. First Watts, who turned their forms in last, all got their first choices.” However, “all but a few have gotten into houses since then,” added Krieble.

Of the six girls from first Cannon who got into a house, only two had handed their forms into the hall counselors, and these two were the first on the stack of forms from first Cannon. “There’s been a lot of complaints on the hall because all of our forms were in one blob on the bottom,” said Esther Bruce, from first Cannon. “Obviously something went wrong with the system. Unfortunately, we were the scapegoats. None of the eating houses have really contacted us, except Rusk House, which has been very enthusiastic. There's nothing we can do about it except wait and try to reform the system for next year's class,” said Debbie Carlton, also from first Cannon.

Bridges said, “It’s just coincidental. I don't think it’s any great concern because they’ll [See LOTTERY, page 12]

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

THE RHC is making suggestions to individualize the dorm lounges.

Dorm committees to form

February 24, 19 [Gregg Strader]

RHC begins aiding lounges

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

The Residence Hall Council (RHC), under the direction of SGA Vice President Bruce Brown, has begun initiating steps to improve the dorm lounges. These improvements will be guided by a dorm committee set up for each dorm. The committee will consist of: the House Manager of the dorm, the Resident Hall Council representative, and the Senate dorm representative. This committee would make specific suggestions for each individual lounge.

According to Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls, each lounge could have different things in it that would make it different from the rest. But she pointed out, “It’s the extra things that make a room special that are the things that are missing.” All of the dorm lounges were done over in 1970 by an interior designer. Since then, basic things have been done for the upkeep of the lounges before each school year. The RHC hopes that more detailed improvements can be made. These include providing more reading lamps, improving the walls with wallpaper or paintings and prints, providing immovable ashtrays to protect the carpet, and adding furniture: couches, chairs, and study desks. Nicholls pointed out that paintings have been hung in the lounges before and, at one time, student paintings were being used. “There is no problem with buying anything that will make the lounges more attractive and livable,” she said.

Brown said the major concern with going ahead with these [See LOUNGE, page 12]

Trustees increase comprehensive fee

By STEPHEN GOLD
Asst. News Editor
and PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

The Davidson student’s comprehensive fee will exceed $5000 for the first time next school year. This 8 percent increase in the current fee was announced at the Trustees’ meeting last weekend and will be matched by a 10 percent increase in money available for financial aid. College Comptroller Robert W. Davidson attributed the increase to an anticipated “jump” in Duke Power utility rates added to the general inflation already affecting the present budget. Business Manager Robert A. Currie addedthat major increases in food costs per student at ARA food services contributed significantly to the hike in the overall comprehensive fee. Another reason cited by Currie was the increase in the minimum wage this year and the expected rise of the minimum wage next year. Those increases especially affect the wages of a large number of employees with the food services. “We tried to hold the line (on price hikes) everywhere,” said Davidson. A full explanation for the increase in comprehensive fees will be mailed to the parents of students soon.

The funding for the proposed college “Commons” has reached the $1 million mark. The construction of the commons is scheduled to begin next fall with the opening date set for September 1980. The Finance Committee approved the Administration's proposal to match the $500,000 gift for the commons in the fall with a $500,000 loan from the College Endowment Fund. This $1 million will be enough to begin the construction of the Commons. The Grayland gift in Raleigh will eventually be sold to pay back the loan from the Endowment Fund. The Finance Committee is still studying investment management of endowment funds and reviewed the data of a number of firms in case the committee chooses to change the endowment fund management.

The Trustee Committee on Development announced at the meeting last weekend that a professional consulting firm, Barnes and Roche of Philadelphia, was selected to help analyze the strengths and weaknesses of Davidson's development program. “They are a highly regarded firm,” stated the Vice President of Development Duane D. Dittman. The firm will concentrate on reviewing Davidson's 1987 Program, in which the College hopes to raise $35 million for endowment, operating funds, and new building projects. The firm, which charges $600 a day, will have recommendations for the school in April.

The Development Committee reported that commitments toward the 1987 program have reached $5,419,114 in fund drives over the past year and a half. The total gift income for the fiscal year 1978, which ended January 31, was $2,613,565. This is a 300 percent increase over 1977. Not included in the 1987 figure are the deferred gifts of Henry B. Abrahams ($61,375) and the Gray real estate gift. The Development Committee reported on other fundraising projects including the Living Endowment Limited Campaign, which raised $209,000, the 1977 Wildcat Fund with a record amount of $152,650, the Corporate Support Program with $153,390, and the foundation grants with $582,648 (including $500,000 from the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation for general endowment). $35,000 was committed for the $70,000 first phase goal of WDAV-FM and $500,000 raised of the $800,000 goal for the renovation of Martin Science Building.

The Education Committee interviewed three faculty members at this meeting who will be up for tenure this spring. Vice President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann could not release the names of the candidates because of administrative policy. The Board of Trustees will make tenure decisions during its spring meeting. The current procedure for tenure evaluation is for the tenure candidate and department chairman to each submit the names of five students and five graduates who have been taught by the candidate to Zimmermann. Zimmermann then interviews three students and five graduates from each group and two tenured faculty members. The President's recommendation and material on each candidate will help the Board with its final decision. According to Zimmermann, he and College President Samuel R. Spencer will be working on a code of Faculty Evaluation Procedure during spring break. A new proposal may be ready soon after the beginning of spring term, Zimmermann said.

Two new amendments of the College Constitution and Trustee By-Laws were approved by the Board of Trustees. Paragraph three of Article LX on the Council for Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) was amended to include the presidents of the Patterson Court Council and College Union on the CCRL. Article one of section IV on mandatory retirement age was deleted so that trustees may now serve on the Board after their seventieth birthday. Four new trustees were installed on the Board: Edwin F. Lucas, Jr., a Davidson alumnus, J. Ricson Phillips and Mrs. Britt M. Armfield from Orange Presbytery, and Dr. Angus McBryde, the President-elect of the Alumni Association.