Volume LXVIII, Number THREE
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
September 22, 1978

Code returns to committee for revision once more
By DENNIS MCLAWHORN News Editor and MIKE COOPER Staff Writer

After facing criticism from the faculty at their Wednesday meeting, the third draft of the Code of Evaluation went back
to the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) for further revision. In addition to improvements in the Code itself, the PAC will
attempt to assimilate suggestions regarding the formation of a Tenure Committee.

Although the faculty discussion of the draft involved “substantial criticism of language,” according to PAC member Anthony Abbott, he said,
“On the whole, there was a much stronger consensus than we had last spring. The document is close to what
we will have,” Abbott said. He said one of PAC’s main objectives is to shorten the draft, cutting out much
of the rhetoric and generally making it clearer and more concise.

Abbott said faculty at the meeting also sought clarification of the candidate’s right to “hear what is said about him.”
He said he hopes the PAC will “write into the document some means by which the candidate being evaluated can
understand the means to improve. There is no mention in the present draft,” he said.

Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac concurred, “The whole point of evaluation is to improve.”

Regarding PAC’s timetable for completion of revisions, PAC Chairman Brown Patterson remarked, “We’re moving along as fast as we can.”
Patterson said he hopes the PAC will be able to present its revised draft and possible tenure committee proposal to
the faculty in early October.

Regarding the Tenure Committee, Patterson commented, “The idea has a lot of support,” adding that the PAC is working on
the form the committee would take, the powers, and the method of selection of members and chairmen.

The Student Government Association (SGA) passed a resolution Monday urging the formation of a Tenure Committee “in order to protect
academic freedom and ensure professional professionalism.” Patterson commented, “Implications of the resolution seemed to be that we hadn’t said anything
about a committee.” He said, however, the PAC actually had been considering its own plans for such a committee, but
had not released them yet.

(See PAC, page 2)

Views on DAV ‘irreconcilable’
By CHARLES ERWIN News Editor

In an hour-long closed meeting Wednesday afternoon, College President Samuel Spencer reportedly told WDAV Station Manager Carrington Thompson that their
views on the station’s future may now be “irreconcilable.” Student Government Association President Bruce Brown, who was asked to sit
in on the meeting by Spencer, quoted Davidson’s

BATTLING SABOTEURS and awesome hangovers, these intrepid rowers from Second Richardson push their boat to a mediocre finish in the
Freshman Regatta, held last Sunday. (Phil Howerton)

PCC studies financial woes
By PEGGY BRITT

The Patterson Court Council’s Finance Committee presented its report last night on the financial problems which have been plaguing some
eating houses.

Last spring, the financial problems of Patterson Court became apparent when three of the houses were unable to meet costs
and had to borrow “something under $1000” each, according to Business Manager Robert Currie. The money, loaned by the College,
is to be paid back by the end of winter.

Although these loans solve the immediate financial difficulties of the three houses, the underlying causes remain a threat—and not just
to these particular houses. Every eating house suffers from what both Currie and Ed Reese, Chairman of the Patterson Court
Council (PCC) Finance Committee, consider the biggest problem: poor money management due to the inexperience of the treasurers.

The second problem is less widespread, but, when added to the budget-balancing difficulties, caused the three houses to go under:
the mobility of members among houses. When someone switches houses his former house loses his money but the house’s expenses
remain nearly the same. When membership drops below a certain point, the houses lose money.

Last spring, the business office recommended that each house member pay a deposit of $50 to be returned at the
end of the year—if he remains at his original house. Thus, people will be encouraged to finish the year at
that house. If they leave anyway, the deposit will help alleviate the loss.“It’s the most equitable way,” says Currie. Reese
disagrees, “We should try a comprehensive budgeting system before resorting to the $50 deposit—it’s awfully drastic for a first step.”
He believes, because all the eating houses have budgeting problems, it would be best to try to alleviate those first.
If an alternate solution is found, there would be no need to try to force people to remain at a
certain house. But the biggest trouble with the $50 deposit idea, according to Reese, is that “It just won't sell.”
He feels that students are forced to pay enough for board already, especially on top of Davidson’s high tuition and
fees.

With these considerations in mind, the finance committee has drawn up a list of recommendations to go before the PCC.
These recommendations include proposals to:
1. Have members sign a list near the end of each term if they want to be counted for membership.
This would allow the treasurer to form a budget in advance and present it at the end of each term
to the business office for suggestions.
2. Elect assistant treasurers during winter term so that they can learn the ropes before taking full office. If possible,
they should take (or audit) introductory accounting.
3. Have monthly meetings between treasurers and business office representatives.
4. Have each house determine a minimum number of people at which it can operate in the black. In case
it falls below that level, the house should be authorized to levy additional charges to members.

The chief executive as telling Thompson, “We’ll agree to disagree.” Brown himself said the meeting clearly “came to an impasse”
over the question of how WDAV should best serve the music needs of its possibly two million listeners. Spencer has
recently come under fire for telling WDAV staff members they must spend at least half of their air time broadcasting
classical music by November 15, like it or not. He cautiously backed away from the November deadline this week, saying
WDAV will not be forced to alter their programming schedule until they have had a chance to explain their position
to the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees. The Committee may be able to meet with the students in
early October, according to Spencer, so the November deadline is not yet completely out of the question.

In a carefully worded five-page statement released after the closed meeting, Spencer explained, “When I found this summer that only
one-third of our air time was devoted to classical music, I stated that we must reach at least 50 percent
to meet the Trustees’ directive and to deal honestly with persons who had given major support to the station in
its initial phase.

“I felt that this was a reasonable compromise between what most people would probably expect and what student staff members
desired in programming, though I had no guarantee that the Trustees would consider the 50 percent level satisfactory.

“It is now apparent that even the 50 percent compromise is considered too restrictive by the— (see Spencer, page 2)

Terry nixes drinks
By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

Despite the recent passage of a liquor-by-the-drink referendum in Mecklenburg County, College officials said early this week they will not
authorize the sale of mixed drinks in the 900 Room. When queried on the subject Monday afternoon, College President Samuel
Spencer hesitated, then said, “That has not been even raised in my presence and that would come... any recommendation about
campus life would come from the Dean of Students.” About that time Dean of Students Will Terry entered Spencer’s office.
Asked if he planned to make such a recommendation, Terry flatly answered, “No.”

“Most of the students on campus are not 21, among other things, which is the legal rule for here. Secondly,
I doubt seriously the trustees would approve it. And I suspect if I authorized such a thing, they would intercept
my authorization,” Terry explained. Spencer turned to Terry and said, “That is the first time that it had even occurred
to me. Nobody had even raised the question.”

“Well, it had occurred to me,” Terry snapped. “My Lord, we'd have to give a keg of martinis every time
we needed to, rather than a keg of beer.”
