February 3, 1978

Faculty Guest Column

Economics in one easy lesson

By ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

“... the doctrines of Economics are not simple and cannot be made so.”
— Alfred Marshall

Just after accepting the offer to write something for The Davidsonian, I met a friend, whom I had not seen
for some time, at a dinner party. He immediately asked me, as he always did in the past, to prescribe
for the country’s economic ills. Any economist in his right senses would have quoted the Rabbinical injunction — “Teach thy
tongue to say, I do not know” — and then started talking about the weather, which is much, much less
complicated than economics. (Any economist, or for that matter, anyone at Davidson, if in his right senses, would not quote
a Rabbinical injunction.) But no economist, in his right senses or not, has ever been able to resist prescribing or
forecasting in the realm of economics, even without being asked to do so. I, therefore, began to pontificate in my
best academic manner. The serving of dinner interrupted my pedantic, if not erudite, discourse before I even had a chance
to begin confusing him with the more esoteric econo-speak, a special language known only to the initiated. Afterwards, I did
not get an opportunity to finish my monologue on economics, a most frustrating experience for an academician. I propose to
use this opportunity to record what the monologue would have been, had I a chance to write it first.

Two problems

There are two major economic problems in the U.S. One is unemployment; the other is inflation. All economic problems have
a theoretical explanation on and from which policies are based and developed. In capitalist economies, the theory that underlies all
public economic policies that have had any success in reducing unemployment is the theory developed by John Maynard Keynes in
the 1930s, yea verily, even in that ne plus ultra, that Kohinoor of “free market,” “free private enterprise” economy, the
Federal Republic of Germany. (See Modern Capitalism by Andrew Shonfield or Wall Street Journal, Jan. 30, 1978).

Until the 1930s, unemployment was not considered by mainstream economists to be a problem. This was because the dominant, accepted
economic theory held that the economy was tending to full employment. This conclusion was based on the universal acceptance by
orthodox economists of what is known as Say’s “law of markets,” which held that “supply creates its own demand.” Supply
was the only problem about which economists were expected to give advice; demand increased automatically and as a matter of
course from increases in supply. John Stuart Mill stated the case in more learned and scholarly language: “...there is no
consumption except that for which the way has been prepared by appropriate production; and all production is followed by the
consumption for which it was designed.”

Mr. Keynes’ theory makes “demand” the problem. “Demand,” in this case, consists of spending by consumers, businesses, government, and foreigners
for economic goods produced by a given economy. There are many reasons why one, some, or all of these sources
of spending can fall short of the level necessary to provide full employment.

Increased spending

Consumer spending can be increased by increasing “personal income,” by a more equal distribution of a given amount of “personal
income,” and/or by increasing “disposable personal income.” The latter can be accomplished through a cut in personal income taxes. Business
spending can be increased by policies that result in improvement or increase in businessmen’s expectations about future profits and/or by
action that lowers the rate of interest. A tax cut, by increasing consumer spending, may improve the future market prospects
to the extent that business firms will increase spending for new capital goods, assuming that there is not sufficient idle
equipment already available to meet the expected increase in demand.

Government spending can be increased simply by the executive branch requesting and the legislature approving a larger budget. It is
the ease with which government spending can increase to offset any deficiency in other sources of spending, plus the inability
of business spending, since the 1920s, to reach levels sufficient to provide full employment, due to economic and social developments
and changes in the 19th century that produced the “mature economy,” that accounts for the continued high level of government
spending, whether Democrats or Republicans are in power.

Foreign spending can be increased by lowering the prices of domestic goods below the prices of similar or identical foreign
goods. This can be accomplished by reducing the domestic costs of production and/or by devaluation of the domestic monetary unit.
It follows that government can increase employment either by a cut in taxes and/or by increasing government expenditures. An increase
in government spending will have a greater effect on increase in income, and thus employment, than a tax cut of
equal magnitude. Obviously, the maximum effect will be achieved when government spending is increased and taxes are cut.

Two theories

There are two theories of or explanations for inflation. One, the older theory, is called “demand-pull” in journalese. This theory
places the major emphasis in accounting for inflation on the supply of money, holding that there is a direct relationship
between the quantity of money in circulation and the price level. An anti-inflation policy based on this theory would aim
at reducing the supply of money.

The second theory is called the “cost-push” theory. This theory places the...Major emphasis for inflation is on the ability of
business firms in what the economists call oligopoly (a euphemism for monopoly) industries to exercise some control over the prices
of their products. In these industries, which include such important sectors as steel, petroleum, sulfur, aluminum, automobile, and many others,
demands by unions for higher wages are granted with only token opposition and regardless of whether the wage increases are
merited by increases in productivity. The firms are able to raise prices enough to absorb the increased costs—sometimes by more
than enough. The statistical importance of these industries in the economy causes their prices to exert a greater than average
pressure on the general price level. An anti-inflation policy based on this theory would aim at restoring competition in these
industries—by enforcement of the existing anti-trust laws—or would impose an incomes policy.

Policy Recommendations

The policy recommendations that are made depend, in the first instance, on the assumption one makes as to which problem
is the most pressing or important one. Liberals tend to assume that unemployment is the most important one; therefore, they
recommend increased Federal Government spending, sometimes recommending a tax cut to accompany the increased spending. Conservatives tend to assume that
inflation is the most pressing problem. They recommend cutting government expenditures, leaving taxes undisturbed, thereby producing a budget surplus to
be used in reducing the government debt.

Now for recommendations guaranteed to solve all economic problems, viz., MINE. First, cut “defense” expenditures by one-half, at least—these are
the most inflationary of government spending. Spend the “peace” dividend secured by reducing “defense” expenditures on health, housing for the
poor, education, environment, energy, etc. Second, increase total government expenditures by some specific amount that is sufficient to accomplish the
goal of reducing or eliminating unemployment in groups that have an unemployment rate above the national average, and plan the
spending so as to direct it to the areas of such high unemployment.

Tax Reform

Third, do not cut taxes, but institute a tax reform policy that would produce a more equitable tax system which,
combined with planned spending, would be designed to bring about a more equal distribution of income. Mr. Keynes noted near
the end of the General Theory that “the outstanding faults of the economic society in which we live are its
failure to provide for full employment and its arbitrary and inequitable distribution of income and wealth.” Since this was written,
much, though not nearly enough, has been done toward eliminating the first fault; almost nothing about the second. The failure
to achieve greater success in dealing with unemployment is due, in large measure, to the absence of success in correcting
the second. Providing a more equitable tax system will require, at a minimum, repealing the corporation income tax and placing
a 100 percent tax on undivided profits, and eliminating all, repeat, all, “loopholes” in the personal income tax. It has
been estimated that the latter alone would increase personal income tax receipts of the Federal Government by 40 percent. In
1975 and 1976, without “loopholes,” personal income tax receipts of the Federal Government would have been increased by 49 billion
dollars and 53 billion dollars, respectively. The unified budget deficits for these two years were 45 billion dollars and 66
billion dollars, respectively. If a properly reformed personal income tax had been in effect for these two years, the total
deficit would have been only 9 billion dollars over the period. (One cannot resist wondering why such ardent budget balancers
as Congressman James Martin and Senator Jesse Helms do not advocate and support this reform as a means to balance
the budget, rather than advocating cutting welfare expenditures.)

Selective Price Controls

Fourth, impose price controls only, not wage controls, on the oligopolistic industries. The reasons for using “cost-push” theory to control
inflation rather than “demand-pull” are: 1) reducing the supply of money, which is called for by the latter, would tend
to increase the rate of interest, which, in turn, would affect adversely business and consumer spending, and 2) the tax
reform recommendation would reduce, or eliminate, the budget deficit, thereby reducing the inflationary pressure from this source. There are two
advantages of the selective price controls recommended above. First, this type of price control is relatively easy to administer; general
price controls in a “free” society are well-nigh impossible to administer and enforce, except during a major war. Second, it
would result in collective bargaining between labor and management in these industries reaching a wage settlement that would more nearly
reflect real increases in productivity, and hence not be inflationary, than is presently the case. Wages would, in effect, be
controlled to that level which is economical and without arousing the antagonism of the laborers.

The above relatively conservative recommendations are hardly consistent with my reputation. These are the best, though, that realistically can be
proposed at the present time and in the present situation. More radical and better proposals will have to await the
establishment of socialism, which is not likely to occur before the Davidsonian deadline.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them
by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week’s
issue.
