== October 6, 1978. — The Davidsonian

Letter to the Editor

Neyon: Is the authoritarian personality really dead?

To the Editor:

I tried to submit this note last May, but I was unable, at that time, to get it typed. I
did show it to half a dozen faculty members at that time in order to get their sense of the
piece. Their reactions were entirely favorable. In the event that there are formal responses to it at a later date,
I will be pleased to clarify my argument.

Richard F. Devon
Penn State University

In recent years there has been a surge of interest on American campuses in holocaust studies. This is occurring some
thirty years after the Nazi atrocities. Future historians looking back at our times may wonder, not at the parallels between
World War II and the Vietnam War, but, rather, at our inability to see these parallels. It may appear then,
as to some it does already, that our current concern with the holocaust is as close as we dare come
to examining our own manifest capacity for committing atrocities.

There are other signs, too, of a repressive mechanism being at work in our ethos. As if intuitively aware that
the source of our guilt lies beyond our national boundaries, the seventies have witnessed a new isolationism in both politics
and academics. And even within our domestic scene, the political and social awareness of the sixties has given way to
asocial and, more worrisome yet, irrational movements.

Soul searching

There is a good deal of searching for personal, simplistic, and dependent belief systems. Some turn to new religions like
the Moonies and many to the plethora of pseudo-psychological therapies where they take refuge in a particular brand of psychobabble
(R.D. Rosen, Psychobabble). All of them seem to have in common the belief that with the stripping away of errant
and superfluous attitudes — as promised by the therapy or religion they engage in — will come a return to
something both irreducible and pure.

Behind this belief in a pure inner self lies, I suspect, a hope that the inner self is not only
pure but innocent. This quest to achieve a blameless state, uncritical and uncriticized, suggests a motive rather less pure than
the aspired goal. Indeed, given the refusal to analyze prevailing social conditions and responsibilities, which characterizes both the new religious
movements and the pseudo-psychological fads, we could say that any bliss attained is born of ignorance rather than innocence and
willful ignorance at that.

All these pressures against the intellect are worrisome because it so often seems that in our society reason plays the
role of critic rather than guide, and fascism, far from being dead, is constrained more by temporary historical circumstances than
it is by our moral, intellectual, and social development.

“Quaint” fascism

In our complacency, we have allowed the term “fascist” to become almost quaint, and yet, during the hour in which
we ate dinner last night, the following happened in South Africa. Six black families were evicted from their homes. Sixty
arrests were made under Pass Laws. Sixty black children died of malnutrition. And the gold mining companies made US $65,000
in profits.

Before we disassociate ourselves from this criminal regime, let us remember that foreign companies control 80% of production there. These
same foreign companies typically pay black wages below the poverty datum line and typically realize per worker profits higher than
they can in their European and North American plants. Our universities and colleges have investments in a number of U.S.
corporations which have operations in South Africa. The returns on these investments help to pay salaries and to keep tuition
costs down; hence, the connection between fascism and the dinner that we ate last night. There is nothing quaint about
fascism, it remains our greatest danger.

Can't say no

How well prepared are we to withstand fascism in our own society? Perhaps the prior question is how well prepared
are we to face it in our own lives and our own behavior. In a classic series of experiments, Stanley
Milgram found that most ordinary people were quite prepared to deliver electric shocks to other people that were thought to
be not only very painful but dangerous. They delivered these shocks — or thought they did — because a researcher
in a white coat who said he was a scientist told them to. Their participation was voluntary. ThereThere have been
numerous verifications of this result. Our ability to say no to authority is almost negligible. Our education system makes obedience
a virtue sine qua non. Throughout our society, obedience in the guise of organizational loyalty takes precedence over almost all
other moral principles. And yet, without the capacity for disobedience, without the ability to defy authority in the name of
morality, there can be no morality. We must be "individuals first and subjects afterward" (Thoreau). Our capacity to resist fascism
requires an ability to recognize it.

Social psychologists have carried out extensive investigations into the nature of the authoritarian personality. The desire that the fascist has
for simple, total, and final solutions to the problem of order in society stems not from the problem itself, but
from the fascist’s underlying fear of the world as a wild and dangerous place. They tend to see the world
in terms of the pure in-group and the contaminating out-groups; hence, the typical association found between fascism and prejudice.

Obsession with authority
The defining characteristic of a fascist, however, is an obsession with authority which becomes expressed in terms of submissiveness to
superiors and tyranny towards inferiors. The leader's submission is, of course, to a vision rather than to a person. In
fascist social organizations, the demand for obedience becomes paramount. “The strength of a political party lies by no means in
a mentality as great and as independent as possible of the individual members, but rather in the disciplined obedience with
which its members follow their intellectual leadership.” (Hitler, Mein Kampf)

Naturally, as an organization becomes increasingly fascist, rules proliferate, discipline increases, perquisites diminish, and genuine decision-making power and information control
move to the top of the organization. Democratic forms of participation wane before the emergence of an ever more clearly
defined hierarchy.

Legitimation ideology
With the emergence of the new power formation comes a change in the legitimating ideology. In fascism, there are two
main methods of legitimating authority. One is to find scapegoats, and given the psychological dispositions of fascists, this is usually
an easy task with ethnicity, religion, and dissent providing favorite criteria. The other method of legitimation is through appeal to
a supraordinate goal such as the good of the people. Since the people have no power, such an appeal serves
only to justify the subjectivity of the leadership. “Idealism...is...the prerequisite for what we call human culture...To this inner attitude the
Aryan owes his position in the world...true idealism is nothing but subjecting the individual’s interests and life to the community.”
(Hitler, Mein Kampf)

(It is important that) “the perspective taken be the welfare of the entire community and the achievement of its goals.
The good of the College must prevail over the good of the department and the welfare of all over the
convenience of any member.” (Zimmermann, Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures)

Editor's note—Richard Devon is the husband of Dr. Tonia Devon, formerly a professor of political science and the director of
South Asian Studies at Davidson.

Letter to the Editor
Vending machines don’t need ‘help’
To the Editor:
The number of refunds paid out for malfunctions of the vending machines has been exceedingly high this year. We are
advised by the company routemen that a number of the stoppages have been caused by foreign items in the coin
slots. “Tabs” from drink cans appear to be a favorite substitute for a coin. It must be obvious that they
will not operate the machine, so it must appear “funny” to the person putting them in. It’s not nearly as
funny to the student who may be putting his last coin in during the wee hours when he needs a
study break. Or to the numerous persons who may try to use the machine before it is cleared several days
later. Unlike human beings, the machines are not perfect and have enough of their own malfunctions without our compounding them.
Please consider others.

Peter Nicholls
Manager, The Student Store

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or
bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in
that week’s issue.
