October 20, 1978

Go Buckingham | By ROBERT PARK Staff Writer

Editor's Note: Senior Robert Park spent last year at the University of Buckingham in England. The following article is a brief synopsis of his experiences.

I had hoped that time would afford me some measure of objectivity in looking at my nine months at Buckingham, but then I am not sure if it has or ever really will. I have been absent from Davidson since Winter term 1977; all but the senior class and a handful of juniors are strangers to me. Even one-time close friends must contend with an eighteen-month void. I am out of the ordinary.

Buckingham itself is an odd little place to escape to, without the new left of Marburg, the Fabian Socialism of East Anglia, or the gun of Montpellier; Buckingham must satisfy itself with the abiding love of the Conservative party. The town is a sleepy market center bastardized by the twentieth century. It is situated 60 miles to the Northwest of London, and 25 miles from Oxford. It used to be the county seat for Buckinghamshire, but time and the industrialization of Aylesbury have seen that changed. The residents of Buckingham tolerate the university’s presence. It is an imposition upon their lifestyle and pace. They had no choice. The town paper's editor is an avid critic of the University and does his level best to foster discontent. All in all, it is an uneasy partnership.

Buckingham, in the truest sense of the word, is an experiment; the first private university for some fifty years within Britain. Great Britain’s universities are state-run and state-subsidized. Private, post-secondary level education, which we take for granted, runs contrary to the Labour party’s educational philosophy. Buckingham has been dutifully received. It has no royal charter, and thus issues licenses rather than degrees at present. The license is not recognized by either the Civil Service or the Military. Every possible nuisance is put in the university’s path. Indeed, the school is supported entirely by fees and contributions. The state provides no aid. Thus, while a student at East Anglia is almost assured of a free education, a student at Buckingham must find some 7000 dollars for a year. And though this may not frighten you, that sum is equal to the average yearly income for a family of four in England. Some scholarship money is available, but as yet it is too little.

The student body is small, even by Davidson's standards -- 276 people. Buckingham is not a British university as such, only 25 percent of the students are British. The school wills to be British, is administered as such, and is taught by natives; but the students to date misrepresent the efforts. Students come from all over the globe; Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Europe, even South America. There are some 30 or 40 Nigerians, mostly on Government grants, a 45-year-old one-time coal miner, a Saudi Arabian prince, Malaysians, a charming man from Guyana, a crazy guy from Yorkshire. The variety is endless.

The average age of the students is about 25, one is dealing with a mature student body, one that actually has some history to it. Many have already known responsibility. To be sure there are retreads, those for whom Buckingham is a last chance, but even they in a strange way contribute to the University of Buckingham.Character of the university. Buckingham, like no other place I have ever known, is a home to the individual. Characters abound. David Close, resident communist, passes out on the common room floor quite regularly from overconsumption; George Goulandris, resident charmer, could seduce a buzzard off a dung heap. Jack Straw and Caryl Ramsden, assistant to the principal and administration respectively, will assist you in the most imaginative ways, whatever the endeavor; Prof. Vereker, pro-principal academic, is the closest thing I have found to a Platonic guardian; Mrs. Long makes the best breakfasts—one by one. Again, the list is endless.

Americans, along with the British, are the financial peasantry. We are considered a bit arrogant, cliquish, self-righteous, and myopic. One will be tested, and failure is not treated kindly. Buckingham courts and covets the American student, but in no way is one guaranteed a social and/or academic Shangri-La. One faces ostracism if too stubborn. One is really only asked to look at the other side of the coin, something that our relative isolation has allowed us to avoid. One must present an open mind.

Buckingham is a chance to open your eyes. It is to sit between an Egyptian and an Israeli as Sadat talks to the Knesset. It is to watch very human reactions to a miniature melting pot. It is to talk all night with someone who experienced Biafra. It is to see the Palestinian point of view. It is to catch a bit of fantasy in an all too real world. It’s something, a gamble, that I am glad I took. I walked the moors and saw the Cliffs of Dover. I saw Brixton, a London slum, and Buckingham Palace on the same day. I spent Christmas and New Years in the North with Mr. Ramsden and his wife, and saw wonderful things and spent wonderful times. I grew to love London. I fell in love occasionally... and was pursued. I even did some work.

Buckingham will not wean or coddle you like Davidson. You do not have progress tests or papers. Your grade depends upon your final. A far greater measure of responsibility is placed upon your shoulders. No one tells you what or how much to do. One does not receive a reading list, but rather a bibliography, and from there it is your move. And horror of horrors, one must go all the way to Oxford for his books. Failure is not a motive for suicide, and grade inflation does not exist—70 is a First or an “A”. Cramming is an art form at Buckingham. It is my only possible objection to the system. Tutors are as near as the pub and their time can be bought for a pint. They are often graduate students fully aware of potential pitfalls. Their time is a haven for both gripes and interests. The busiest will always spot you a moment.

One goes to the loo or the bog and not the bathroom; and when someone tells you to wait a minute while they fetch their fags—it’s cigarettes they're after. One gets “pissed” and does so by “firing up.” Students with a hangover awake feeling knackered. Do not wear Bermuda shorts. Buckingham was wonderful for me, as was England. That is not an unconditional recommendation—on the contrary, it has quite a few restrictions. Cliché or no, Buckingham is what you make it and what it makes you. The pace is frightening, the game competitive. It rains constantly and therein lies manic depression, but if you just remember to bring a raincoat, it’s incredible.