2

By ANN GARNER
Staff Writer

At an open meeting of the Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel, and Development last Tuesday, Religion Professor Max Polley expressed his “concern about the difficulty of younger faculty members to acquire permanent housing and to pay for it.” He said his concern stems from “a sense of tension between the haves and the have-nots among the faculty and staff members in the face of increasing interest rates and construction costs.”

Polley said he recognized the problem is essentially “the fault of the economy,” yet he questioned whether the present subsidy provided by the College “is enough and is it helping?”

Presently, Davidson College sponsors a Housing Subsidy Program which helps to defray the interest payments on loans used to purchase or to build housing. College Business Manager Robert Currie describes the program as “incentive to construct or buy houses for those faculty and staff persons, who after two years, are expected to be permanent members of the College community.”

Under the program, the faculty or staff member obtains a loan from a lending institution. The College then provides a subsidy by multiplying the difference between a 6 percent and 8.5 percent loan and $16,500—the average of all assistant and associate professor salaries. Payments are made directly to the faculty/staff member and may extend for a twenty-year period.

“But the key feature of this program is that younger professors receive a greater amount of this subsidy in their lower income years,” explained Currie. “Therefore, he has greater incentive to build and the College has less pressure to increase rental units.”

The College commits itself to providing rental housing or to help find other housing for all those faculty and staff persons who are recruited by the College. “At Davidson, the College tries to maintain a sense of community,” added Currie. “I don’t personally feel the tension, but there is certainly talk among the younger faculty members who wonder if they can ever have housing. Whenever you have such a large gap, I'd be surprised if you didn’t have some tension.”

Currie acknowledged the possibility of tension: “Naturally there was a rift when the old program was stopped. But I feel that any rift was corrected when we liberalized the subsidy program in 1977.”

Presently, thirty faculty members are taking advantage of the new subsidy program and Currie anticipates five homes per year will be purchased under the program. “At Davidson, the College tries to maintain a sense of community,” added Currie. “In fostering this spirit, the College expects the faculty and staff to live in Davidson. This program, therefore, is unique in that not many institutions need a program of this sort,” he continued.

Vice President for Academic Affairs, Price Zimmermann echoed Polley’s concern. “The hideous increase in the cost of new housing is putting homeownership out of the reach of moderate-income families all over the country.” He added that with “the increasing dispersion of faculty members towards the periphery, McConnell Farm will be the next series of lots available to faculty members.” Zimmermann explained in view of this that “the drop-in, informal relationship (between students and faculty) works best when there is geographic centrality.”

November 3, 1978

RELIGION PROFESSOR Max Polley says he is concerned about the way high interest rates have created a rift in the faculty. The junior faculty is not able to buy big homes in Davidson. (Phil Howerton)

College-based groups join leftist coalition

DETROIT, MI. (CPS)—Representatives of over 100 labor, community, and political organizations have agreed to establish a “coalition of coalitions” by mid-November to counter organized right-wing activity, and to pressure the Democratic Party to adhere to its stated platform.

Some 200 representatives of groups ranging from the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to the Sierra Club have authorized United Auto Workers Union president Douglas Fraser to set up two commissions to work out details of the new coalition. The commissions are expected to meet in mid-November and the official announcement of the group’s formation and name will be made then.

The coalition was agreed on last month (October) ata Detroit meeting called by Fraser who said in his invitation, “The time has come... for a vigorous counterattack against the right-wing corporate forces and the political system they dominate.” Organizations attending the one-day conference included 31 labor unions, and over 70 groups active in such diverse areas as civil rights, women’s rights, environmental issues, social action, consumer rights, health care, housing, tax reform, urban problems, economics, senior citizens’ rights, energy reform, education, progressive, and socialist organizations. At times, these groups seemed skeptical of the prospect of working together. But when the time came for a vote, there was unanimous support for Fraser’s proposal.

Several college-based groups also attended, including the American Federation of Teachers, National Education Association, American Association of University Professors, and the newly-founded United States Student Association—the result of the merger between the National Student Association and the National Student Lobby.

The coalition’s two priorities will be “an effort to develop and pursue new approaches to the social and economic needs of the people,” and “an effort to improve the functioning of the American political system and our political parties.” In reality, the second priority is an attempt to pressure the Democratic Party: “The strategy we propose,” said Fraser, “aims to make the Democratic Party in fact what in principle it has proclaimed itself to be since the New Deal—a progressive party struggling against the reactionary capitalist money power of the Republicans to transform America into a fair and decent society.”

Although there is a strong Democratic Congress, and a Democrat in the White House, many conference speakers observed that much of the progressive legislation proposed in the 1976 Democratic Party platform has been killed, diluted, or ignored by Congress. “You don’t need a new platform in 1980,” said the representative from Americans for Democratic Action, “because the 1976 one hasn’t been touched.” In several cases, notably labor law reform and the energy bill, defeat came at the hands of a well-organized and well-financed right-wing lobbying drive that reached both sides of the Congressional aisle, conferees claimed.

This breakdown in Democratic Party discipline led many conference attendees to suggest that the Democratic Party was, as American Indian Movement activist Bill Means put it, “a crippled horse.” Means, and many other delegates, were frustrated by Fraser’s call for remaining inside the current party structure. Their logic is nothing new: both Conservative Republicans and liberal Democrats have long complained that the two major parties were so ideologically similar that voters had little real choice presented to them. “A number of people were expecting a call for a third party at this conference,” said Frank Jackalone, head of the U.S. Student Association, “but apparently that isn’t going to happen. I’m pretty skeptical about changing the Democratic Party,” Jackalone said. The Democratic left has often talked about issues, but never has been able to act on them.

(See Leftist, page 9)

(Continued from page 1)

fund of student tax money at this time. Business Manager Bob Currie said, “No decisions can be made without a thorough examination of the situation, especially in regard to what WDAV equipment was bought with student money.” College President Samuel Spencer was reluctant to comment on the matter, awaiting further input from other members of the administration. Communications Director Martha Roberts also had nothing to say about the funds. Roberts is presently working on the fine points of her proposal for the future programming and operation of WDAV, which she had hoped to submit to Spencer during the first part of this week. The proposal is expected to contain comprehensive guidelines for WDAV’s staffing, funding, program format, organization, and general operation. She said that it will not be released to the public until Spencer has made any adjustments as he desires and gives it his final approval.