October 20, 1978

Excerpts from Dworkin:

“We have to distinguish whether we are talking about affirmative action in general or those special programs of affirmative action in university admissions policy with which we as educators and students are most familiar.

“Does affirmative action violate either the moral or the legal rights of any individual?

“That’s a separate question for two reasons. First, even if affirmative action is a good idea, even if it would gain a great deal for the community, we still must not do it if it would violate the rights of a single individual.

“What basis would there be for supposing that Bakke or anyone in his position has a constitutional right that he not be judged in a competition that takes race into account?

“Many people simply say it’s of course a violation of his rights to do this. I think that’s false. I don’t think that enough attention has been paid to the question—why? When we do put the question, ‘why?’ various things get said.

“Someone will say, because everyone has a right to be judged on the grounds of merit and merit alone in the competition for scarce resources. I don’t know what merit means in this context. Merit is ambiguous. Does merit mean that everyone has a right to be rewarded for virtue in the competition for places?

“The distribution of places in university admissions is, on this theory, a kind of pat on the back, a congratulations, a tribute to the moral work of the individual being selected.

“I think that is a preposterous view of what the competition for the scarce resources of a university comes to.

“(Perhaps some will say) ‘by merit, we mean not moral virtue. By merit, we mean those qualities that will make the person a better member of the profession that the professional school is training. In that case, I certainly agree that people ought to be selected on grounds of merit. But the claim that these programs are making is that at this point in our history one of the factors that might make someone a more useful member of a particular profession, for reasons none of us can be proud of, just is his race.

“It’s not that we want to aim at a society which is organized in the sense that every profession has a quota of blacks. It’s just our judgment that right now we have a wall in our society and that possibly one way to make a society less racially conscious in the long run is to have what will seem to be a more plausible distribution along racial lines across professions so that certain professions cease to be the province of one race.”

The Davidsonian

WHEN THESE two children are old enough to go to college, will skin color even be considered?

Dworkin (upper left) and Cohen (lower right) got down to the brass tactics of the Bakke decision A News Analysis Monday night.

Scholars debate Bakke

By TIM DWIGHT
Staff Writer

Davidson students who just weren't sure last weekend what the Supreme Court’s Bakke Decision means could easily have left the Cohen-Dworkin ‘debate’ Monday night still bewildered.

The debate attracted a large crowd, including part of Charlotte’s Bar Association and Federal Judge James Macmillian. Philosophy Professor Carl Cohen of the University of Michigan and Jurisprudence Professor Ronald Dworkin of Oxford University were unable to agree on how to use the term “affirmative action.” At first, the two seemed to have no common ground on which to build disagreement. Each speaker had his own set of distinctions which were difficult to tie together.

Cohen was speaking morality and trying to make sure no one was done wrong by racial discrimination while Dworkin was using utilitarianism and deciding who would make better professionals and therefore help society as a whole.

Four months have passed since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that Allan P. Bakke was illegally denied admission to the medical school of the University of California at Davis because he is white. In that time, the decision has become known as the Bakke decision was important and would set a precedent against other cases of ‘reverse discrimination.’ He also said that Justice Powell’s decision, as the pivotal ruling, would be the important one. He quoted...from Powell's decision extensively in his speech. Dworkin, on the other hand, thought that the Bakke decision actually "settled nothing." He claimed that if another reverse discrimination case came up, Bakke would not be used as a precedent. He did not place as much weight on Powell’s decision as Cohen did. At the beginning of his speech, Cohen made it clear that he was against racial discrimination and emphasized that any kind of racial discrimination, even in favor of a minority, would be harmful to society and also to the minority. Dworkin stated that discrimination which would be helpful to society could be permitted. He claimed that our country needs racial discrimination to create a more balanced society. Although Dworkin raised a few good points (such as his view that discrimination against minorities is still prevalent and needs to be counteracted in some way), his speech seemed poorly organized and was hard to follow. By contrast, Cohen's talk seemed very tightly structured and was easy to understand. His ideas were clear and coherent. Cohen, however, was sharply critical of the press’s treatment of the Bakke decision. He claimed that the reporters talked as if they had not read the decision they were reporting on. Cohen, who also spoke earlier in the day to a group in the Chambers Gallery, claimed that the decision was based on the 14th Amendment and the Civil Rights Act—definitely solid ground. Cohen's gestures were also more impressive than those of Dworkin. The sure sign, though, that Cohen had "won" came at the end of the questioning when Dworkin claimed that race had never been a suspect distinction in our society and used as his justification the statement, “Because I am right.”

Excerpts from Cohen:
"It is my view that Bakke was right. It is my view that programs designed to give special preference on the basis of race itself are improper, both immoral and unjust, and unwise. But that is not the matter which I propose to discuss this evening. I want to talk about the decision which the Supreme Court rendered in this case, and about some of the ramifications of that decision. I think that it has been widely misunderstood. I think that its ramifications are important, and that they need to be understood. Both parties are honorable parties. This is not a case of good guys and bad guys, the unjust and the just. It is several parties seeking justice in a very complex affair. What, within the rulings of the Supreme Court on this case, may we do? It was commonly said subsequent to this decision that one got from the Supreme Court a wonderful compromise in which somehow the parties were satisfied in their important demands. The New York Times called the decision ‘Solomonic in its wisdom.’ Was this in fact a compromise? Did the justices somehow split the baby? I put it to you that it was not a compromise at all. The justices did not seek compromise. Nor should they have sought compromise. Their job was to seek justice and that is what they did. They did not seek a politically palatable ruling. Four of the justices of the Court found racially preferential programs against the law. Said these four justices of the Court, ‘it was perfectly clear that Bakke was subjected to discrimination under this program.’ Four other justices of the Court find it not so. They engage in an exploration of that clause and conclude that that program violates neither the Civil Rights Act nor the Constitution. Four on one side, four on the other. The ninth judge, Justice Powell, sits in the middle. His is not a compromising position, not at all; it is a passionately written position. He objects strongly and repeatedly to racially discriminatory practices in favor of minorities to create a more balanced society. He considers thoughtfully and rejects firmly any two-class theory of the 14th Amendment which supposes that the equal protection of the laws protects some people more carefully than it protects others in view of the fact that they have been injured in the past more. He calls this the two-class theory and thinks it is totally mistaken. With four justices on one side and four justices on the other, Justice Powell’s views on these matters are critical."