March 17, 1978 - The Davidsonian

Winter in Review
By DEAN ECKLUND
Staff Writer

Davidson winter sports have faded from memory like the March snow, but those sports participated, for the most part, in tournament play during the week of exams.

The rifle team repeated as Davidson’s most successful winter sport by posting a 16-9 record. The Cats finished fourth in the Western Carolina Rifle Conference meet held at Spartanburg, S.C., and followed with a fourth-place showing in the season-ending Southern Conference meet. In this meet, nationally ranked ASU claimed the title followed by VMI and The Citadel. Senior Captain Tom Miller led Davidson in the Western Carolinas Meet with a score of 264. At the Southern Conference meet, sophomore John Parham and junior Tom Niblock led Davidson with scores of 264 and 261, respectively. Since graduation claims only one of the top five members of the rifle team, expectations for next year abound.

The women’s basketball team closed out its season with a very exciting 62-61 victory over Duke University. Senior Beth Tanner led the Cats with 18 points and senior Nancy Brown came off the bench to chip in two early baskets. Junior Cindy Morrison paced Davidson’s rebounding effort with 13 and also poured in 15 points. For the season, Sarah Womack led the team in scoring with 14.2 p.p.g., followed closely by Beth Tanner with 14.0 p.p.g. Tanner also led the team in field goal percentage, 44.7 percent. Davidson did not qualify for the state tournament because of its record, which was 5-13 for the year. The team consistently had to play against much taller teams and with an average of six scholarship players to Davidson’s none. Davidson is hard-pressed to compete in recruiting because of the scholarship situation. Thus, it might take a change in scheduling and/or a move to Division II for the women’s basketball team to be competitive.

Only one Davidson wrestler placed in the Southern Conference meet (Rob King finished third in his classification), but then only three Davidson wrestlers made it to the meet. The meet was scheduled for the Friday after exams in Boone, and only one car made it through the snow Thursday night. No additional attempts to get through were made for fear that once in Boone one might be stuck there for most of the spring vacation. The team is expecting a good year next year with everyone returning except senior captain Glenn Ballard.

The men’s basketball team lost to VMI in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament 95-80 at Lexington, Va., to close the year with a 9-18 record, which included 11 losses in the last 12 games. John Gerdy was named to the All-Conference team for the second straight year. For the year, Gerdy averaged 25.8 p.p.g., eighth in the nation. He also shot a remarkable 54 percent from the field. Davidson as a team led the Southern Conference in field goal percentage, 50.5 percent. Davidson’s new head coach Eddie Biedenbach watched the Cats’ last game from the stands and expressed that improvement in the Cats' defensive effort would be a priority for next season. The Cats' starting lineup will return intact, including Davidson’s two outstanding freshmen, Chris Dodds, who set a freshman scoring record (500 points, 18.5 average), and set school and conference assists marks with 203, and Rich DiBenedetto, who averaged 11.3 points, led the team in rebounding (9.2 average), and led the conference in field goal percentage, 60 percent. Considering Biedenbach’s reputation as a recruiter and a coach, Davidson's basketball future again looks bright.

Talented Grid Recruits Sign
By MIKE BRITT
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson football coaches, now busy guiding the team through spring drills, have just completed a very successful year of recruiting. With most of the footwork behind them, the major task that remains is to sign those players that have shown interest. One real blue-chip recruit has already, in fact, signed. He is Ray Sinclair, a 5’10”, 229 lb. fullback/halfback from Jacksonville, Fla. Says assistant Coach Dave Roberts, “On paper, Ray looks like the best football player Davidson has ever signed.” He has been offered scholarships by Michigan State, Florida, Georgia, FSU, Notre Dame, and many others. One of the top players in all of Florida, Sinclair runs the 100-yard dash in under 10 seconds and ranks second in a class of 581.

Other recruits include:
- Mike Bass, 6’0”, 210, kicker, Tampa, Fla. Set a Florida High School record for the longest field goal of 53 yards. His father is a defensive coach for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers.
- Stan Beswick, 6’5”, 215, TE, Stuart, Fla. A big, strong blocker who has 4.7 speed in the 40-yard dash. An excellent receiver, who appears well suited for the Wing-T formation.
- Kelly Kolbinskie, 6’4”, 210, TE/LB, Jacksonville, Fla. Kolbinskie was a first-team all-area and all-state selection. He caught 24 passes for 425 yards, which led his conference. He was his team’s most valuable player. Chose Davidson over Florida State.
- James McClain, 6’3”, 205, Clio, S.C. Combined speed and size make McClain an excellent linebacker prospect for the Wildcats. Ranks number one in his class at Clio.
- Joe Palasak, 6’4”, 212, LB, Daytona Beach, Fla. Palasak was named to the Florida All-State team as a linebacker. Has good size to go with 4.7 speed in the 40-yard dash.40-yard dash. Considered Tulane, Florida St., and The Citadel before selecting Davidson.

Brian Whitmire, 6’4”, 195, QB, Jacksonville, Fla. “Brian has one of the strongest arms I’ve seen,” Roberts said. “He can throw the ball 60 yards with ease. And he is a natural leader.” Completed 98 of 179 passes for 1,278 yards and 13 touchdowns last year. Was named to the all-area first team.

Alan Brady, 6’2”, 210, G, South Plantation, Fla. Brady is an aggressive lineman with determination and ability to be a good line prospect.

Mickey Dillon, 5’10”, 180, QB/DB, Daytona Beach, Fla. Was an all-state 4-A selection last fall. Won all-city honors as junior and senior and was named most valuable player at Huntsville. Rushed for 543 yards and passed for 879.

Rick Gaines, 5’11”, 180, QB/DB, Daytona Beach, Fla. Has 4.5 speed. Was second team all-state QB. Completed 85 of 170 passes for 1,056 yards and 11 touchdowns. Rushed for 342 yards and two TDs.

James Jones, 6’4”, 190, RB, LB, Columbiana, Ala. Won all-county honors as a linebacker and led his team in tackles. Also starred in basketball and track.

Danny Kelley, 6’1”, 212, G, Jacksonville, Fla. Kelley earned first team all-area recognition in Jacksonville and was a leader in Bishop Kenney’s drive to two straight North Florida championships.

Richard Strader, 6’0”, 185, LB, Lexington, N.C. Won all-league honors as a linebacker at Lexington. His father is a Davidson graduate and his brother Gregg is a sophomore. Also had scholarship offers from Western Carolina, Appalachian, and Illinois.

These recruits, combined with over 70 players who will return from last year’s squad, should provide the Cats with the material for their first winning season since 1969.

SAE’s clinch title
By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

Greetings, and welcome once again to another sick Bernie and H-man IMAC report. In keeping with our policies of the past, we promise to give you all the perverted news on campus just the way we want you to hear it.

With the end of the winter term came the heralded IMAC cage tourneys, and as always in IMAC competition, the team that managed to beat the opposition won the contest. This year’s big winners were the SAE’s in the A league, the Red F Cushhounds in the B league, and Twice as Nice in the women’s division.

The SAE’s won the tourney the hard way. After losing an early contest to the impressive Tex’s KA’s, they worked their way into the final by winning the loser’s bracket. En route, they knocked off such tough teams as Hurtin’ for Certain (led by Rich Perkey and Gifford Piercy), Tex’s KA’s (led by Skip Barkley, Tex, and Fly Williams), and Hand Sown, Home Grown (led by Roger Hodge and Dave Jones). Once in the finals, the SAE’s had to beat the ever-tough Mothership Connection, not just once, but twice to win the tourney.

In the first game of the finals, the SAE’s jumped out to an early 12-4 lead behind the fast-breaking attack of Carl McPhail and Adrian Wilson. Played with a continuously running clock, the game was rather low-scoring and the SAE’s handily won by double digits. The stage was then set for the final game between the two powerhouses.

Early in the afternoon of the day of the final game, Thom Cartwheel notified the students that no more tickets were available for the game, and it was the first sell-out since back in the days of Gary Walters. Early in the final game, the Mothership Connection, using their “Bop” guns and Funkamentality, jumped out to an early lead. But once Andy McDonald put his engine in gear, the game was over. The 6’3” sophomore from Jonesboro, Ga. had a high game score of 21 points and pulled down 14 rebounds. His sidekicks, Wilson, Reuning, Daisley, Bondurant, and McPhail all played up to par, and the SAE’s captured the title for the second straight year, 87-79. McDonald was named the BB&H player of the year and McPhail was given the most improved player trophy. Stan Brown was given the award for the most ridiculous gestures made in a public place.

In the B league, the Cushhounds edged out the Biwis and the Black Leather Wombats. We don’t know the score in either of those games and we don’t really care.

Twice as Nice, the youngsters from Second Cannon, edged out the Bops, 30-28 behind the great foreplay of Cathy Inabnet and Hope McArn. Despite the showing from these two girls, the MVP trophy went to the loser’s Kirby Owen, who put on the best show in Johnston Gym since Abdul went under the bleachers.

Next week Bernie and H-man’s 5th annual softball roundup will be fresh off the presses, and be sure to pick up a copy to find out all the latest news from the Flaming A’s, Presto’s Grill, the Ragmen, and many others.

That’s about it.

Baseball—2-4
Davidson 1, Ga. Southern 2
Davidson 1, Augusta 3
Davidson 7, Augusta 15
Davidson 5, Duke 4
Davidson 6, Duke 9
Davidson 3, Pfeiffer 1

Tennis—4-1
Davidson 5, Penn. St. 4
Davidson 6, Swarthmore 3
Davidson 5, Rochester 0
Davidson 2, UT-C 7
Davidson 8, Guilford 1