February 3, 1978

National and World News
By ANN TUTWILER
Staff Writer

Mideast talks resume

Egyptian President Anwar Sadat and Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin moved slowly back this week to their positions prior to Sadat’s walkout from diplomatic talks on January 19. Early last week, Israel refused to continue military talks as a countermove to the walkout. Both sides cited insults and ultimatums as reasons for the break. Israel drafted a set of principles as a basis for further talks, and on Monday, January 30, the Israeli Parliament voted to resume direct negotiations. Sadat plans a trip to the U.S. and various European countries this week to gain support and to pressure Israel.

Committee approves treaty

The Panama Canal Treaty was approved, 14-1, in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on January 31. The treaty was sent to the Senate with a recommendation that a memo of understanding between President Carter and Torrijos be included in the existing articles. The committee also amended the treaty with a statement on U.S. rights to defend the Canal’s neutrality and the U.S. right of first entry in the event of an emergency. It is estimated that 70 of 100 Senators may approve the treaty.

NATO strengthens forces

The Department of Defense announced long-range plans to strengthen military forces of NATO on January 31. The plans include the deployment of neutron bombs, an increase in Trident submarines, and the phasing out of Polaris submarines. NATO General Alexander Haig called for higher Western defense spending to counteract the Warsaw Pact’s increasing strength on January 30.

Fiscal budget announced

President Jimmy Carter announced his proposals for the 1979 fiscal budget on January 23. The proposals include a tax cut to consumers and businesses, totaling $33.9 billion with a deficit of $60.6 billion. This year’s projected spending is $500.2 billion. This increase of eight percent over last year’s budget includes larger allocations to defense, education ($30.4 billion), energy ($9.6 billion), foreign aid ($5.4 billion), and mass transit ($2.3 billion). The Wall Street Journal stated this week that the budget emphasizes Carter’s fiscal restraint and prudent management. There were few reorganizations or cutbacks, while some social allocations (urban projects and health) were postponed.

Intervention discouraged

The Senate Foreign Relations Committee recommended on January 26 that the U.S. forcefully discourage international interventions that have aggravated apartheid. The leader of the Zulus (South Africa’s largest black tribe) spoke to 10,000 blacks on January 30 at a peaceful gathering in Soweto, saying that they had reached the crossroads in the fight for racial equality.

Odds and ends

The Sun Belt may gain nine seats in the House of Representatives due to population shifts. A survey of college freshmen by the American Council of Education found that 57 percent claim to be politically middle-of-the-road, two percent on the far left, and one percent on the far right of the political spectrum. Last year’s trade deficit was $26.72 billion. The reason cited for the heavy increase was the U.S. reliance on imported oil. An expected rise of five percent in exports is not enough to offset projected increases in imports in 1978.

SUBSCRIPTIONS may be obtained by writing: The Davidsonian Box 218 Davidson, N.C. 28036

“The move to split was not as important to me as the input that I will have and the SGA Security Committee will have in the operation of the new system,” said Terry. Meetze explained the main reason for the split as “administrative problems.” “We have had for a long while some problems with keeping some of the officers assigned to Precinct #2 on campus. In some cases, the campus officers were called off to back up cops in Precinct #1. In other cases, the officers...being ‘campus cops’,” said Meetze. This “erosion of responsibility” increased over the Christmas holidays. At that time, Hughes had discovered an officer assigned to Precinct #2 had left the campus and instructed the officer to go back to the campus. “The officer told Hughes,” explained Meetze, “that he would quit if he had to go back, so then he quit.”

“I don’t want to give the impression I made this decision over one incident,” he explained. “This was fairly typical. There were many cases of this.” Officers Latta and Burton thought that the new system would result in better security on campus. Both thought that new personnel were needed immediately and that the program would have to be well administered to work. “It would have been better if they had waited until enough people had been hired,” commented Latta. “Mr. Meetze assured us that he would hire people as soon as possible and we wouldn’t work much overtime.”

“Once they hire enough people, I think the school will be a lot safer than before,” said Burton. “Yeah, but right now, it’s a mess,” replied Latta. Latta and Burton are currently working eight hours a day, six days a week including Saturday and Sunday.

[Continued from page 1]

The students on the Committee were also concerned that faculty members have not voiced protest over Devon's non-renewal. “I’m outraged at the lack of any action by the faculty. It seems to me they have a moral obligation at least to investigate, but it’s their own conscience,” remarked one of the students. Wolf said that everyone on the PAC had read the letter and indicated that it would be discussed at the committee’s next meeting Wednesday. He said the PAC had been asked in December to determine whether constitutional procedure had been followed while Devon was under consideration for renewal.

The College Constitution states that “The faculty member will be advised, at the time of initial appointment, of the substantive standards and procedures generally employed in decisions affecting renewal and tenure. The faculty member will be advised of the time when the decisions affecting renewal or tenure are ordinarily made and will be given the opportunity to submit material which he believes will be helpful to an adequate consideration of his circumstances.”

“The PAC played no role in the evaluation of Dr. Devon’s qualifications. The PAC could only question whether or not constitutional procedure was followed,” Wolf explained. Devon was aware that a contract renewal decision would be made by December 15 but, Wolf said, the PAC questioned whether or not Devon had been given “ample opportunity” to submit materials to defend her programs and teaching. Wolf explained that Zimmermann met with Devon subsequently to give her a chance to defend her case. “After that second meeting, as far as we can tell with the written procedures we have in the College Constitution, procedure had been followed in her evaluation,” Wolf remarked.

“The PAC will, however, discuss the letter and its implications to see if there are any new areas that need to be investigated,” commented Wolf. Wolf added that the PAC has been concerned with the problem of renewal of contracts and the role of student, faculty, and administrative evaluations for at least ten years. “The PAC has been anxious to see a set of specific guidelines for contract renewal evaluation set up by the administration,” said Wolf. He offered his views on the procedure: “I think what could be done is to put into writing what procedures and standards will be generally applied in evaluating faculty.”