March 31, 1978

The Davidsonian

“HOPE McARN displays beautiful form on her serve against her N.C. State opponent. Pat Miller’s squad is working hard and hopes to do well in the upcoming state tournament.

Club Sports

[Phil Howerton]

Squads start anew

By KEVIN ROBBINS

Club Sports Columnist

After a shivering winter layoff, the beautiful spring weather brings with it a revitalization of Davidson’s Club Sports. (There should have been some winter activity, but the Ice Hockey Club was put in cold storage and had their funds frozen due to lack of organization and participation.) Anyway, we now have five Clubs in some shape or form breaking a sweat somewhere besides in the classroom.

Rosenberg’s Rowdies, the Football Club, opens play this Sunday with an away game at Wake Forest. Months of preparation and hours of grueling practice have been sacrificed in an attempt to better a highly successful fall season.

The Soccer Club has survived forfeits, postponements, rain, and snow so far. Beginning play in the latter stages of February, the gallant booters have surmounted obstacle upon obstacle, the latest one being away games with teams in Asheville and the unfortunate loss of a home field. Playoff chances appear slim, but the Cats are still kicking and heading in the right direction.

The Lacrosse Club had to suffer through several key injuries and an onslaught of E.H. Little Disease in a disappointing season so far. Goalie Thompson and Peg-leg Ferraro have kept the troops hanging tough. Those rambunctious Ruggers are alive and well and doing what they always do best, and playing some good rugby, too. A further update of them as soon as last week’s party ends.

Waterskiing has some big plans in the making for the warm spring weather as soon as Lake Norman fills up with water. You'll be hearing a lot more about them and their new Polish recruit, A. Ikanski. Hey, later. Do it with a Club.

Frank attains milestone win

Tennis coach Jeff Frank (in his 6th season with the Cats) recently reached a major plateau by chalking up his 100th win as a coach. The team’s victory over MIT Tuesday brought coach Frank’s record to 100-40-1, a winning percentage of .709 that makes him the winningest active coach of a varsity sport at Davidson. A 1966 graduate of Davidson, Frank has been associated with three championship teams (as a player in ’65 and ’66 and, in his first year as coach, 1973). Judging from scores so far, this year’s team promises to be one of his best. The squad has already compiled a record of 12-2, and hopes to continue their winning ways.

Custom Framing
Wide Selection of Prints and Posters

Back Porch Specials - stretches that suit your needs.

Browsing Welcome
MEMBER

(Your source of Grumbacher and other art supplies)

At The Copeland House Gallery

Just Arrived - Artext Mix & Matches
Matted Prints $2.00
Frames to Mix or Match $4.00

Real Bargains, if you can find one

10 a.m. to 5 p.m.

Lady Cats seek state title

By LISA JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Spring brings to Davidson sunny weather, good attitudes, and tennis courts occupied by the Varsity Women’s team. Coach Pat Miller and her team began their 1978 season with a spring break venture to Tampa, Florida.

This pre-season workout included many challenge matches and intensive practices, but proved to be effective because it enhanced the competitive nature of the players and united the team.

Returning players for this year’s team are Kirk Cameron, Nancy Brown, Mary Gilliam, Bunny Horine, Tanda Witherspoon, Andrea Murphy, and Susan Casper.

The new freshmen on the team, Hope McArn, Anne Stanback, Tricia Haynes, and Grace Morgan, are the recent additions to this year’s lineup.

Challenge matches are being played regularly and Miller has emphasized the flexibility of the ladder, indicating that it can change at any time. “For the first time ever, the team wants what is best for the team, instead of themselves,” added Miller, with reference to challenge matches.

The outlook for the season appears to be tough because Davidson has recently changed to the Division II Small College League, but must continue to compete against large colleges.

Fifteen matches are scheduled and the women have already defeated Converse, Pfeiffer, and N.C. State, but came up short in their match against Peace College.

With high hopes of another good season, Miller added that their goal this year, along with improvement, is to win the small college state tournament.

For the first time, a JV women’s team has been organized and is being coached by Jean Giarusseau. Unfortunately for Miller, much of her “1977 maintenance crew” was lost to the JV squad.

The JV team had regular pre-season practices and has scheduled several matches for the season. They recently lost to Western Carolina, 6-3, but were not discouraged. Instead, they remembered in the backs of their minds that the reason for their team is participation, not winning.

FRESHMAN BILL Baird follows through on an iron shot during a recent practice. The team is participating in a tournament hosted by Marshall Friday and Saturday.

(Phil Howerton)

100% Cotton Knit Shirts

Wine
Pink
Yellow
Purple

A great way to improve your game.

Sizes Small to XXL

Also, great selections in sport shirts from MUNSINGWEAR

Jon Mock Golf
Mooresville - Only 6 miles north