——3H _ The Davidsonian October 20, 1978

Comeback thwarted Wildcats fall short in final seconds

By BERT MOBLEY Staff Writer

Davidson Head Coach Ed Farrell sums up the Wildcats’ season rather well: “There is only a matter of a few
yards between our 3-3 record and 5-1, and we came within a yard of beating Lehigh.” Regardless of what might
have been, the Davidson ‘Cats journey to Hampden-Sydney, Va., to meet the Hampden-Sydney Tigers. The Tigers have attained a 4-2
season record this season and are coming off a win over Washington and Lee last weekend. Davidson beat Washington and
Lee 34-7 earlier in the season. Last year, Coach Stokely Fulton's Tigers earned a 24-20 victory over the Wildcats.

CORNERBACK CHRIS Boslet utilizes his speed and strength to rip down an opposing halfback preventing a large gain in the
play.

Lady Harriers end fine season

By NANCY WRIGHT Staff Writer

In the two dual meets held at Wake Forest last Saturday, the Davidson women’s cross country team lost to Wake
Forest 82-28 yet exhibited remarkable performance against Georgia State, tying 28-28. Georgia State previously defeated Davidson by ten points at
the Stone Mountain race. Once again Susan Davidson demonstrated her exceptional talent by crossing the finish line first for Davidson
just behind the first Georgia State runner. Completing the 6000-meter course in 19:50 placed her ahead of all of the
Wake Forest competitors, many of whom are on scholarship. Paula Kadison finished second for Davidson. Also competing for Davidson were
Merideth Durden and Lisa Shingler who placed fifteenth and sixteenth, respectively. The course at Wake Forest provided troubles for many
of the Davidson runners as it was confusing. One runner had to stop three times and yell, “Where the ----
do I go?” North Carolina also ran the course but they did not compete against Davidson. After observing the results
of the meet, Kadison deduced, “We could have beaten Georgia State except for Sarah Todd’s absence.” Beth DuBose was also
unable to compete due to an injury. Kadison also noted, “Judging by the improvement made by the girls in this
race over the last race (against Georgia State), I think this new team has real possibilities.” Since this completed the
women’s season, the final record stands at 1-3-1. Coach Norman Koller considered the season “a highly successful beginning.” The women’s
plans now consist of increasing their mileage to provide a stronger background for next year. Several upcoming winter road races
are also slated for the team.

The few yards that Farrell mentioned could have meant a tremendous victory for the ‘Cats last week: Lehigh held on
in the last seconds to win the game 27-21. Walley scored the first touchdown of the afternoon to set Davidson
a 7-0 lead following a 41-yard scamper by halfback Alvin Atkinson. Most of the first half went by without a
change of score. Lehigh’s quarterback then scored, tying the game. The Cats attempted a squibbling-onside kick, and Chris Boslet recovered
the ball at the Lehigh 38. Whitmire and company trounced onto the field and began moving toward the goal. A
16-yard pass was completed to Piercy, and the Wildcats moved all the way to the one-yard line with 35 seconds
left.In the game, quarterback Rich Andres hit Steve Kreider with a 13-yard TD pass to tie the game at the
half 7-7. If the first half had been a bad time for the home-town Engineers, the second half was simply
disgusting for the ‘Cats on most of it, anyway. Lehigh, the defending national Division II champs, scored three second-half touchdowns
and looked as if they were going to win with ease. The finish was, however, anything but “easy.”

With about three minutes to go, the Wildcats began their furious comeback. Freshman quarterback Brian Whitmire of Jacksonville teamed up
with Gifford Piercy for a twenty-yard touchdown pass and, moments later, a 25-yard six-pointer. Mike Bass kicked the extra points
and moved the ‘Cats to within six points of the Engineers. Whitmire lost a yard on the keeper and was
faced with a fourth-and-two situation. With receivers open in the end zone, Whitmire fired the ball to Piercy once again,
but this one was deflected and fell incomplete.

Lehigh brought some high credentials into the game with their thirteenth consecutive home game. The fact that Davidson came so
close to winning pleases Farrell: “Our play in recent games -- Wofford, Bucknell, and Lehigh in particular -- indicates that
we have reached the level we have been striving for. Now, it’s important that we become a consistent winner at
that level.” Farrell also said, “We’re disappointed with the loss at Lehigh. We made a great comeback but there is
no such thing as a good loss.”

Foy Fires 71 Golfers take sixth
By DICK TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Senior Sollie Foy of Alexander City, Ala., led the Davidson golfers to a sixth-place finish in a twenty-two team field
at the Elon College Fall Invitational in Burlington, N.C. Foy finished a strong third individually behind David Graham and Mike
Rosa, both of Elon.

The Wildcat golfers opened on Tuesday with a 399 over a windswept Indian Valley Golf Course. Foy and All-Southern Conference
L.D. Simmons paced the team with a pair of 74s. Junior Mark Hess chipped in with a 79 followed by
Bill Baird's 83 and Parks Neisler’s 89. On Wednesday, the squad moved from seventh to sixth place led by Foy's
73. Other scores for the day included Baird's 81 and Mike Kennedy’s 82.

Coach Tim Tallent was pleased with the team’s first tournament this fall, but said, “I am looking for bigger and
better things to come.” The golfers fell to Furman on Saturday by eight shots, despite a one-under 71 by Sollie
Foy.

Par 7, by Opti gas aan, 1038 rl Citadel his cory sent, The mitten ae

CATALOG OF UNUSUAL ITEMS
Dealers, Clubs, Churches, Students, etc. Make up to 100% profit selling our many hundreds of unusual items. Most items not
found in stores. Catalog and complete details for 30¢ postage. C.C.C. - Dept. 576 Box 7586 - Greenville, S.C. 29010.

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-0208

Nancy Wright placed ninth overall and was closely followed by Elizabeth Dean who placed tenth.
