The Davidsonian
April 7, 1978

Spencer, Brown comment on aspects of Advisory Councils

By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

The 1968 constitution of Davidson College provides for four advisory councils to the president. They are the Advisory Council for Admissions and Financial Aid, the Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel and Development, the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life, and the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Although committees existed before to advise the President, the constitution formalized channels for faculty and student advice on decisions made by the president and trustees. Dr. Spencer points out that the advisory councils "were established for the purpose of enabling the members to express themselves and give advice on matters which the administration is primarily responsible for."

The Advisory Council for Finance, Personnel and Development is made up of six faculty members and three students, and must meet with the president at least three times a year "to receive reports and to advise with respect to on-going operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration." As with all of the committees, the president must submit to the committee his proposals for the trustees in this area. If there is a majority disagreement, the proposal must carry the vote and a statement of the reason for disagreement with the proposal.

The Advisory Council for Admissions and Financial Aid consists of six faculty members, three of whom the president chooses, and two students. Included in this council's jurisdiction are matters pertaining to enrollment and admissions, and implementation of policies.

The Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life must meet twice a year and includes the Dean of Students, the presidents of the YM/YWCA and the SGA, seven faculty members, and eight students. It is concerned with extracurricular events whose "aim (is) the enrichment of the spiritual, social and cultural lives of the College community."

The Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Activities has for members the academic development vice-presidents, the Dean of Students, the director of athletics, three faculty members and three students. It is concerned with policies regarding athletic pursuits.

Concerning the effectiveness of the committees, President Spencer and SGA President Bruce Brown agree that the Council on Finance, Personnel, and Development is too large. Spencer points out that this "grows out of the situation at the time they were formed when there was only one vice-president." "Since then the two departments have been split," Spencer adds, "As a result, the council now operates under an assumption that no longer exists. I have always felt that this council had too much to say grace-over."

From his viewpoint as recently elected president of the SGA, Bruce Brown says that "there are no clearly defined functions" for the committees and that it should be established "what the scope and powers are." He also feels that it is important that the elected students "should take their jobs seriously."

The senate is responsible for student appointments to all the councils except Campus and Religious Life which is elective. Brown stresses the thorough choices which are made and plans to emphasize keeping up with the student members once they are appointed.

To each council, Spencer and Vice President of Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann appoint administrative personnel, faculty and students in addition to those members elected. In appointing members to the Advisory Councils, Spencer and Zimmermann seek those persons "most knowledgeable in that particular area" as well as attempting some balance by departments.

In response to alleged shortcomings of the councils, Spencer replies, "They have been in effect less than two years; there has to be a trial and error period. I believe that's what they're going through."

Assistant to the President, Gary Barnes summarized the merit of the advisory councils, "They provide for direct input of student, and faculty opinions in that the councils channel right into respective trustee committees."

By SHERI GRAVETT
Assistant FOCUS Editor
And DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

Finance personnel and development

One of the most important activities of the Finance, Personnel, and Development Committee is to "offer advice to the President on broad areas of the budget," noted Dean of the Center for Special Studies and former Chairman of the committee Robert L. Avinger, Jr. "The budget as a planning tool has got to be...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"More than nuts and bolts," he added. The advisory committee is called for in Article IV, Section 2, paragraph 2 of the 1976 College Constitution and is charged with advising the President and his delegates "with respect to on-going operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration in this area." Avinger noted that one of the first problems the body faced was to further define its activities within the constitutional framework. "We spent some time considering the role of the council. Originally, there was some uneasiness and uncertainty on what the council could do." Here, he reiterated its capabilities in overseeing broad areas of budgetary allocation. It could, for example, recommend gradual shifts in funding among programs, either to emphasize an area of the budget or to promote greater efficiency in other areas. "One tool we have not used so far is to place lids or yearly decreases on departmental ceilings to change emphases." A major worry of the committee is cost overruns within departments. "There has been considerable concern that some programs have not been taking the budget seriously," Avinger noted. Another question, raised by the committee’s present chairman, Professor of Sociology Robert Ruth, and its secretary, Professor of French Lauren Yoder, is that of College investment in South Africa. Ruth stated, "The South African problem should be brought up for discussion. The Presbyterian Churches U.S. and U.S.A., among other groups, have looked into their investment policies there." Although most Advisory Councils are required to meet once each term, the Finance, Personnel, and Development Committee has met only once this year, prompting some critics to question the usefulness of it and other such bodies.

Both Avinger and Ruth point out that the purpose of the committee is to make recommendations on policy, with Avinger stating that their impact hinges on "the force with which the recommendations come and the openness of decision makers to recommendations." On this point, Ruth felt that the council is being hindered by "either apathy or too much preoccupation with other things" on the part of students and faculty alike. The professors, however, agreed that decision makers are not making full use of the council. Avinger sensed "animosity and a feeling that some are not as open to discussion as could be." He elaborated that "it is not a question of whether the recommendations are adopted or not, but whether they are considered seriously." Despite criticism, many feel there remains a need for such an advisory group. Avinger voiced a desire for "articulation of ideas that could be considered in the budgetary process." Ruth stated, "I would like to see us take a more active and interactive role than we have taken in the past, particularly in terms of running down rumors and in providing information to the faculty and student body."

Intercollegiate athletics

According to the Chairman of the Advisory Council for Intercollegiate Athletics (ACIA) and Professor of Mathematics J.B. Stroud, one of the ACIA’s principal duties is "to make sure that within our guidelines, we assist the Athletic Department to function as smoothly as it can." During its first year (academic year 1976-77) the ACIA met four times and participated in two additional joint discussions with the Trustee Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics. Stroud comments that he sees the ACIA as "a good line of communication and means of input to the Trustees." Among the recommendations the ACIA made to the President in 1976-77, according to their annual report, were:
1. that the College retain its membership in the Southern Conference;
2. the football team compete on the Division 2 level rather than in Division 1;
3. a budget be developed which, insofar as possible, balances the real needs of the department against the limited resources of the College, and to take steps to ensure that the Department of Athletics operates within its designated budget;
4. the President should instruct the Advisory Council on Admissions and Financial Aid to develop a set of written guidelines to be used in the recruitment of athletes by the coaching staff of the Department of Athletics.

Stroud stated that everything the council has recommended has been acted upon by the President. Items discussed this year by the ACIA have included:
1. clarifying the guidelines for recruiting practices;
2. clarifying the guidelines for students who wish to participate in two major sports; and
3. whether academic consi-