September 29, 1978 The Davidsonian: J. Guy Winker was selected to the Yodooeehata Policy Committee, a powerful body which makes
some of the most important decisions at Davidson. He joins Peggy Noel, the other student Committee member.

In other appointments, John Willingham and Ann Garner were selected to sit on the Media Board, and David Hull and
Linda Talbot were appointed to the International Education Committee. Nominations were closed Wednesday for the offices of Dorm Senator, Off-campus
Senator, and Freshman Class Senator. Of the three freshmen who win seats as Freshman Class Senators, the one with the
most votes becomes Freshman Class President. Freshman Residence Hall Counselor representation will be decided in the election on October 3
as well.

Cup drive begins
Beginning Monday, September 2, all students eating at Slater are requested to bring their own cups for drinks. At present,
17,500 cups are used at Slater each week, which averages out to 3.5 cups per person per meal. Director of
Slater Food Services Ron Scott has agreed to donate one cent for every cup under the 17,500 cup standard per
week. The proceeds will go to CROP, which fights world hunger. The program worked quite well last year, as students
managed to earn over $1400, or $90 per week, for CROP. The drive hopes to reduce waste in addition to
raising money, as well as raising the general level of awareness regarding conservation measures.

Dorm lounges refurbished
When Student Housing Director Scotty Nicholls refurbished the lounges in the dorms this summer, she purposefully failed to restore them
to their former elaborateness. Several years ago, Nicholls had instructed the Physical Plant to furnish the rooms with such niceties
as ash trays, lamps, plenty of furniture, and original paintings. Many of these accommodations were omitted from this year’s renovation
project because students have been so irresponsible with them in the past. Ash trays quickly disappeared, lamps were overturned, and
pictures were defaced. Many chairs and tables found their way into students’ private rooms. Nicholls said that to provide a
maximum of furnishings would be futile. If the students want the lounges to be more completely accommodated in the future,
they will have to demonstrate more maturity. “The first step in making the lounges look better is to educate the
students in how to take care of them and act responsibly when they’re in them,” Nicholls remarked. Residence Hall Association
President John Jackson emphasized that students must face up to the fact that damaging and stealing of the furnishings in
the residences is a violation of the Code of Responsibility.

Contributors: Mike, John Davis, and Nancy Lowe.

UNCC’s Vice Chancellor Orr says there’s room for both radio stations
(Continued from page 1)
Spencer said last week, “I think what we need to do is to get our own situation clarified first before
we start elsewhere.” Orr, on the other hand, said he’s ready to talk to Davidson officials about coordinating their stations
so that they do not step on each other’s broadcasting toes. “We would very much like to coordinate and cooperate
with Davidson, not only concerning the radio station, but on a number of fronts,” he said. But having read the
papers, Orr said he realizes many Davidson students are angry about WDAV’s future and that this may not be the
best time for the talks to take place. “I realize you have a sensitive issue over there and I think
we should get together when Davidson's ready,” said Orr. At least when it comes to cooperating, WDAV and WFAE’s station
managers seem to be way ahead of the two administrators. Davidson’s Carrington Thompson has already scheduled a meeting with UNCC’s
Bo Pittman for sometime next week. But whether they’ll agree on issues or not, none of the four—Orr, Spencer, Pittman,
and Thompson—appeared worried about competition. “Surely the cultural life of Charlotte can be enriched by two public service stations,” commented
Orr. “There's so much in public radio that can be complementary. I don’t really see them as having to be
in competition,” he added.

Davidson on-campus arrest
By CAROLE LOPTSON
Asst. News Editor
A 1947 Davidson graduate and his companion were released Tuesday on $500 bail after being arrested on campus Monday evening.
Willis Jones Hobbs, 53, and Gordon Alfred Phillips, Jr., 41, both of Mount Mourne, were charged with impersonation of a
police officer, carrying a con-Cealed weapon, possession of a weapon on public or private school grounds, and trespassing. Hobbs and
Phillips were driving a 1972 Ford Pinto station wagon when stopped by Davidson College Security Officer Gussie Latta at the
corner of Main Street and Martin Manor on September 25 at six forty-five p.m. A pair of handcuffs were dangling
from the rearview mirror and a simulated .45 caliber automatic—actually a gas-powered pellet gun—was lying on the dashboard, stated arresting
officer R. H. Cloaninger. He said both men were wearing wraparound sunglasses. According to Cloaninger, the two men told Latta
they were special deputy sheriffs and showed her a false badge. Further search identified them as Hobbs and Phillips. Among
the contents of the car were eight .38 caliber bullets, one 14-inch lead pipe, two handkerchiefs secured to the door
handles, 44 .32 caliber bullets, one dead squirrel, one half-gallon of urine, seventeen cans of beer, two containers of K-Y
jelly, a loaded .32 caliber Colt revolver concealed under the console, and the gas-powered pistol in a deputy sheriff holster.
Hobbs and Phillips allegedly said they were carrying the weapons “to deter crime.” Hobbs, when arrested, claimed to be a
Davidson graduate. Mrs. Nancy Blackwell of the Alumni Office confirmed he graduated from Davidson in 1947 with a B.S. degree.
According to Alumni records, Hobbs transferred to Davidson from Wake Forest University in 1945, where he had participated in Little
Theatre, Phi Society, and the Methodist Club. He subsequently received an M.A. in British History. Hobbs now reputedly operates a
“cafe” on Main Street in Mooresville, according to Alumni records. Phillips told police he was self-employed and owned rental property.
According to Cloaninger, Hobbs and Phillips also claimed Davidson College had granted them passes to the Lake Campus. The trial
will be held on October 26, 1978, in District Court. The charges against them, classified as serious misdemeanors, carry a
maximum sentence of $500 and/or six months in jail.

By CLAY MCCAULAY
Staff Writer

Great strides are being made in Davidson’s 1987 fund-raising program, according to Vice President for Development Duane Dittman. Dittman said
$8.6 million has already been pledged to the program and that $5.1 million of that has already been received. The
program’s goal, set in 1975, is to raise $35 million by Davidson’s 150th anniversary nine years from now. According to
Dittman, a fund-raising schedule is set up each year. “In the last fiscal year, we raised $3,428,000. This was the
most successful fund-raising year in the college’s history,” he said. Usually, summer is a fund-raiser’s lean season, according to Dittman,
but this hasn’t held true for the 1987 program. Numerous pledges and grants from the S.S. Kresge Foundation, Proctor and
Gamble, and others have been received by the Development Office since the opening of the new fiscal year. Dittman reported
that the Kresge grant, which pledged $200,000 to the College, was the largest of the summer grants. According to Dittman,
the first construction program tied to the 1987 program, the Martin Science Building’s renovation, has already begun—with $725,000 already spent
to finance it. Most of the funds raised through the 1987 program will be used to increase the endowment, help
finance construction projects, and provide regular operating expenses. Since the program was begun, inflation has pushed up college expenses so
far that the original $35 million goal may have to be raised to meet Davidson’s needs, according to Dittman. “The
goals that were originally set three years ago haven’t been changed, but it’s clear they will have to be changed,”
said Dittman.

We have just received a beautiful selection of jewelry designed by Balos International. These rings and earrings set in silver
offer an exciting note for the fall season.
