The Davidsonian

Kochan sees bright future

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

John Kochan, Davidson's interim basketball coach, is a confident man. “Our program will win consistently in 2 years when our young players develop. We will continue to attract good people here. With the further support of the administration and alumni, Davidson will become a good basketball team again.”

Although this sort of prognostication is by no means new to the campus, Kochan may have the right combination of energy, intensity, and basketball knowledge to refute the prevailing cynicism of the typical Davidson senior (“Do you know how long I’ve been hearing that?”) and establish the foundations of a winning team.

Kochan is a 27-year-old native of the Bronx who attended Lehman College in New York and was a starting guard there for three years. Upon graduation in 1972, Kochan entered the coaching ranks, and his subsequent rise has been meteoric. After 3 years as a graduate assistant at Maryland, 1 year as assistant at Mansfield State, and 1 1/2 years as Dave Pritchett’s top assistant here, Kochan finds himself at the helm of a major college basketball team.

What will Kochan do differently from his predecessor? The pre-eminent change will be in his approach to recruiting, an area which Kochan singles out as “the most important aspect in establishing the program.” Kochan will emphasize the school and its program to prospective players, where Pritchett’s hallmark was a strong personal relationship with the player and his family.

On the court, Kochan tends to use his bench more, as he likes to rest his starters and provide an opportunity for his substitutes to prove themselves. The team now practices longer, and there are more whistles blowing as Kochan stops the action and makes corrections as soon as problems emerge. Senior Kevin Doherty is playing a good deal more, and was a significant factor in the team’s triumph over South Carolina. Kochan sees Doherty as a swing man, a very good athlete who is quick, jumps well, and brings much-needed versatility to a team of specialists.

Overall, however, the new regime is not greatly different. Kochan is impressed with the team’s intelligence and adaptability, and this, combined with the absence of drastic alterations of Pritchett’s system, has made for a relatively painless transition.

Thus, Kochan is running things—for now. The imminent possibility of yet another head coach is ever-present and as Kochan says, “you feel the pressure.” “But those decisions are made by the administration and the athletic department, not by me. I will concentrate on giving the players all I’ve got.”

By RICK BATEMAN
Staff Writer

It was definitely a week of ups and downs for the young Davidson Wildcats. Saturday, for the first time since 1969, the Cats defeated the South Carolina Gamecocks. But Monday night,In a complete turn-around, the Cats were soundly beaten by VMI in an important battle for a first division spot in the Southern Conference standings. The 84-73 victory Saturday was the pinnacle thus far of Davidson’s season. Hitting 15 of his last 17 shots, John Gerdy was the prime factor in allowing the Cats to break a 33-33 halftime deadlock and gradually build a 74-60 lead with four minutes left in the game. Despite his 31 points, however, Gerdy was not a one-man show. He received outside scoring help from Chris Dodds with 18 and Pat Hickert and Rich DiBenedetto with 18 points respectively.

January 27, 1978

FRESHMAN RICH DiBenedetto soars above Keydet defenders and slams the ball for two easy points.

Monday night in Johnston Gym the story was different from beginning to end. VMI, Southern Conference Champion for the last two years, combined a tenacious defense and the torrid shooting of Ron Carter (34 points) to outscore Davidson 29-10 in the first ten minutes of the second half and coast to an 89-69 victory. Down six points with a minute gone in the second half, the Cats were forced to adopt a man-to-man defense. From there it was all VMI, as they built their lead to 79-61 with 4:22 left and coasted to their twelfth victory in 17 games.

Coach John Kochan gave most of the credit for VMI’s victory to their defense. He singled out particularly VMI guard Kelly Lombard. “Lombard did an excellent job on Gerdy. He overplayed him and didn’t allow him to get the ball.” Gerdy, who hit only 5 of 14 from the field, shot 8 fewer times than usual and ended the game with only 15 points, 13 below his league-leading average.

Despite his disappointment, Kochan admitted that there were bright spots. DiBenedetto, for example, led the Cats with 18 points and Todd Haynes countered with 10. Kochan felt, “The two freshman big men were 12 and 16 from the field and keep improving from game to game. With their improvement and the outside shooting expected from Chris Dodds and John, we will have the balanced offense necessary to have a good ballclub.”

The outlook for William and Mary? Kochan states: “We must forget about VMI—William and Mary is a deliberate, disciplined, and experienced team. They start four seniors. We must execute and play our game to win.”

Free Recreation in Main Gym 1/27--2/2

Friday: 12:30 pm - 3 pm, 5:30 pm - 12 midnight
Saturday: 2 pm - 12 midnight
Sunday: 5 pm - 6 pm
Monday: 11 am - 2 pm, 5:30 pm - 8 pm
Tuesday: 11 am - 2 pm, 5:30 pm - 8 pm
Wednesday: 11 am - 2 pm, 5:30 pm - 12 midnight
Thursday: 11 am - 2 pm

Please note: Some events may run over into free time. Also, all events in the gym are subject to change at any time.