Revere February 24, 1978 - The Davidsonian

Tourney balance prevents easy picks
By JIMMY SNYDER
Sports Columnist

The Southern Conference basketball tournament features a well-balanced field. Any one of the six teams pose a threat to capture the title. Only the Citadel and Western Carolina appear to be outmanned. First round action begins this Saturday. The four winners will advance to Roanoke, Va. on March 3 and 4 for the semi-final and final rounds of the tourney.

Top-seeded Appalachian should have little trouble defeating the Citadel Bulldogs in Boone. The Mountaineers possess one of the most balanced scoring attacks in the Southern Conference led by Darryl Robinson (18 ppg) and Renaldo Lawrence (17 ppg). Tony Searcy provides inside power with 16 points and 12 rebounds a game. ASU features the second-best shooting and rebounding team in the conference. This consistency could prove to be the decisive factor as the Apps try to add the tournament title and NCAA bid to their regular season crown. The Citadel will counter with guards Randy Nesbit and Rick Swing, along with improving pivotman Tom Slawson. The Bulldogs will need their best effort of the season in order to upset ASU on the Apps’ home court.

First-year coach Stu Aberdeen’s Marshall Thundering Herd could be a darkhorse candidate to win the title. Marshall’s impressive victories over Appalachian and VMI prove that the Herd is capable of playing very good ball. Bunny Gibson, the conference’s leading scorer with 22 points a game, is supported by Harley Major, Greg Young, and freshman point guard Greg White. If 6’11” Danny Hall, a transfer pivotman from Kentucky, plays well inside, the Herd could become a formidable foe in Roanoke.

The Catamounts of Western Carolina have little hope of upsetting Marshall on the Herd’s home court. WC features a one-man show in Bubba Wilson (23 ppg). Terry Rutherford adds strength inside with 8 rebounds a game.

The Furman-UT Chattanooga matchup at Greenville should provide the best contest of the opening round. Furman has unlimited potential as evidenced by the Paladins’ consecutive victories over UNC and N.C. State in the North-South Doubleheader. The Paladins are led by pivotman Jonathan Moore, who averages 18 points and 13 rebounds a game. His balanced supporting cast includes Al Daniel and freshman sharpshooter Rodney Arnold. The Moccassin attack is paced by Edsel Brooks (who shot well outside against the Cats), Keith Parker, and William Wright. The quick pressing Moccassins are defending Division II national champions, but depend on youth this year after having been decimated by graduation. Look for Furman’s home court advantage to offset the performance of defensive specialist Bruce “Blowdry” Grimm in a narrow Paladin victory.

Tankers end successful year
By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson swimmers finished their season with a 10-5 record and a respectable fourth place finish in the Southern Conference swimming and diving championships. For this year’s senior class of Mike Knowles, Jonathan Washburn, Marshall Brown, and Jim Wood, this accomplishment is the result of a constant improvement in the swimming program which has taken place every year since they were freshmen. This year’s team could be the best in the sport’s history at Davidson, although the record may not reflect this. The true indication of the team’s excellence may be seen in the fact that fourteen school records were set this year. In fact, this team holds all but one of the school records.

Coach Pat Miller termed the season “successful” and was pleased with all the records that were set. She was also pleased with the way the team as a whole bettered their own personal goals. “Although everyone didn’t set records, everyone did improve on their best times. I’m proud of that fact and I think it attests to the team’s hard work.”

As for next year, the outlook is positive, although the graduation of Jonathan Washburn and a strong senior class will definitely be felt. However, the recruiting effort seems to be going quite well. According to Coach Miller, two all-state swimmers from Florida have already committed to Davidson. Hopefully their addition, along with some other possible recruits, will offset the loss of the seniors.

The season is over for all the swimmers except two. Jonathan Washburn and sophomore Mark Tommerdahl will participate in the Duke Invitational on March 3-5. This will give them the chance to go against some ACC competition. Washburn will also attempt to...capture the only school record which this year’s team does not hold -- the 100 yd. freestyle.

Gunners fall short
By THOMAS NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Rifle Team returned from the Western Carolina Conference Championship in Spartanburg, S.C., with a disappointing fourth place finish. The Cats, who finished the regular season in a tie for second place, had been looking for a second place tournament finish behind Appalachian State. Instead, they placed fourth behind Appalachian, Presbyterian, and South Carolina State in the tournament. Clemson University finished fifth, Wofford College was sixth, and Wake Forest brought up the rear in seventh position.

“Unavoidable scheduling problems probably hurt us the most,” commented coach Ransom Cooper. “Both of our tournaments fall at the end of the term making it especially difficult for the team to devote much time to practice.”

Even with the poor showing Saturday, the Rifle Team is in high spirits. The Cats finished their regular season with a record of 15-6. Their last regular season match was on Feb. 12 when they coasted to easy victories over the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga and N.C.A. & T.

High shooter for Davidson was team captain Tom Miller at 264. Katherine Whitney and Reed Ellis posted 262 and 256 respectively, while John Parham shot a 251. Robbie Kirkendol rounded out the top five at 246, followed by Tom Niblock and Mike Pearson, who shot 242 and 217 respectively.

This Saturday the team travels to VMI for the Southern Conference Championship. The Wildcats face a tough uphill struggle if they are to capture their first Southern Conference title since 1970. Second-seeded and defending champion VMI dominated the Cats both offensively and defensively in an impressive 89-69 Keydet victory last month. That loss was the turning point for the Wildcats’ season, as they dropped nine of their last ten games after registering an impressive victory over South Carolina.

The disciplined Keydet attack is paced by all-conference player Ron Carter. Carter has edged by Davidson star John Gerdy in the conference scoring race by less than three one-hundredths of a point. Bad Bernard revealed in an exclusive interview that he believes the “conference player of the year will be determined in VMI’s ‘pit’ Saturday night.”

Davidson must have a balanced team effort in order to advance to the final four at Roanoke. VMI leads the conference in both team defense and rebounding while the Cats are last in each category. Therein lies the key to the contest. The Cats must find a solid defense to combine with their great shooting ability. Hopefully, the team effort exhibited in the first half of the recent Furman game can mold with a healthy John Gerdy and steadily improving Rich DiBenedetto for a Cinderella story in the 1978 tournament. If the underdog Wildcats can pull off the upset at Lexington on Saturday, they would have a good chance of winning the title on a neutral court. However, the odds are with the teams possessing home court advantages in the first round. Look for Appalachian (defeating Furman) and VMI (defeating Marshall) in the finals with Appalachian avenging last year’s narrow loss. Yet, the well-balanced field and the explosiveness of Marshall and Furman could shoot these predictions all to hell. In that case, GO CATS!

Results
Men’s Basketball: 9-17
Davidson 69, Furman 82

Wrestling: 2-8
Davidson 33, Furman 17

Women’s Basketball: 5-13
Davidson 62, Duke 61
Davidson 62, Furman 64

Become a lawyer's assistant and put your education to work. The National Center for Paralegal Training offers qualified college graduates the opportunity to enter the legal field as a lawyer's assistant. This intensive 12-week graduate program taught by attorneys in Atlanta may qualify you for an active and challenging role as an accepted member of the legal community. Specialize in Corporations, Litigation, or Real Estate and Probate. For a free catalog about the Program, call (404) 266-1060 or simply mail the coupon below.

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
School Name
Yr. Grad.

The National Center for Paralegal Training
A Representative from The National Center for Paralegal Training's Lawyer's Assistant Program will be on campus on Wednesday, Mar. 15 from 1:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. at the Placement Office to meet interested students. For more information contact the Placement Office or The National Center for Paralegal Training, 3376 Peachtree Road, NE, Suite 430, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, (404) 266-1060.

The National Center admits students on the basis of individual merit and without regard to race, color, creed, sex, age, or national origin.

Sandra Jennings, Director
The National Center for Paralegal Training
3376 Peachtree Road, NE, Suite 430
Atlanta, Georgia 30326
Tel. (404) 266-1060

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE