Will legislature up aid to private college students?

By HARRY GREYARD
Senior Editor

The North Carolina Legislative Building in Raleigh is quiet now. But battle lines have already been drawn for a conflict that could disrupt the building's solitude. When the general assembly convenes in January, a war of words and statistics is expected to erupt within the legislature between private and state-supported colleges and universities. Fallout from the war will directly affect a quarter of Davidson’s students.

At issue is state aid to North Carolina undergraduate students enrolled in private colleges and universities. Presently, every N.C. student enrolled in a private school receives a grant from the state that averages $600. The presidents of the state’s 38 private schools unanimously say their students need an increase of $200 by 1980-81.

Volume LXVIII, Number ELEVEN

A News Analysis—Part 1

The Board of Governors of the University of North Carolina—the group that oversees operation of all the state’s public colleges and universities—has unanimously refused to endorse the private schools’ proposal. Furthermore, the private school presidents have unanimously requested that a permanent formula be established for state aid to their students. And just as unanimously, the UNC board has refused to endorse any permanent formula.

The issue is complicated: Two separate programs actually administer the aid, and recommendations are funneled down through a detailed, and sometimes contradictory, procedure. But the end result to Davidson is real. North Carolina students who attend school here will receive a quarter of a million dollars this year. If the first recommendation of the private schools is accepted, that figure will jump to at least $800,000 by 1980-81. The grant has been $600 since 1973-74 and has remained at that figure since. (see $800, page 5)

December 8, 1978

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

Faced with double-digit inflation and rising Social Security taxes, the administration will be pressed in allocating College income as it begins scrutinizing departmental funding requests for the 1979-80 budget. The deadline passed last Monday but Comptroller Robert W. Davidson said that while requests have not yet been received, all are expected within the week.

During the next several weeks, a committee composed of President Samuel R. Spencer, Vice President for Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann, Vice President for Development Duane Dittman, Davidson, Business Manager Robert A. Currie, and Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze, will meet to consider the requests and assemble a budget in line with projected College income.

Davidson noted that a major factor in the new budget will be inflation. “On the whole, inflation has been running at almost 10 percent this year. There have been several increases in the cost of fuel oil in recent years and, since OPEC is expected to approve a 5 to 8 percent increase in the cost of crude oil this month, I believe it will go up again.”

Currie noted, “Besides utility rates, the College will have to allocate more for this year’s scheduled tax increases. The hourly minimum wage will be increased and, more significantly for us, Social Security taxes are going up pretty sharply on January 1. This presents a problem since the College must match all Social Security taxes taken from employee salaries.”

Davidson pointed out, “We have also been warned that insurance rates will go up fairly soon across the board. These are only the most apparent strains on the budget.”budget. The growing cost of food and services does not show signs of letting up.” When asked whether student activities taxes will be increased next year, Currie stated, “The Activities Tax Council hasn’t met yet this year. The tax revenues come to $50,000 presently and were increased $5 per student last year, so any increase would be only to cover for inflation unless, of course, we could somehow cut expenditures.”

Associate Professor Alexander McKelway, chairman of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors, voiced strong concern over “the trend toward decreased faculty salaries.”

“The faculty’s main concern is that a larger amount be allocated toward the educational branch. We don’t deny needs in other areas but this we believe is central to the College.

“Within this concern is that for faculty salaries. The actual decline in constant dollars has been 8 percent at Davidson within the last decade, exceeding the overall national decline. This reduction in actual spending power is something we all suffer from, but it puts the faculty under considerable economic strain as well.

“Considering the difficulty in getting in graduate programs today, the fact that academic positions are harder and harder to get and keep, and the increased numbers of students to be taught, it is ironic that salaries are going down.”

McKelway noted also that faculty compensation as a percentage of the total educational expenditures fell from 43.7 in 1966-67 to 34.9 in 1977-78. “Furthermore, in the last four years mean faculty salaries have increased less than any (see Bigger, page 2).

Erwin, Ferraro battle for 1979 editorship

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Editorial Page Editor

Two juniors, Charles Erwin and Joe Ferraro, are contending for the editorship of the 1979 Davidsonian.

Erwin enters the race for the editorship with a journalistic background marked by variety. He was news editor and then editor of his high school newspaper. Having worked on the staff of The Davidsonian since the first week of his freshman year, Erwin, a junior, has been features editor for the paper and presently serves as news editor. Studying journalism through books, articles, newspapers, and professional people has been a special interest during the (see Erwin, page 4).

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

The Faculty approved the much-discussed tenure committee proposal Tuesday on the first of two votes necessary for final approval of the committee’s establishment. The proposal, which would establish a committee of faculty members to decide whether to give professors tenure, passed by a vote of 39-29. This margin is seven votes short of the two-thirds majority it will need to pass on a second reading before the faculty. Such passage is the only step remaining for the proposal to receive final approval and begin to be implemented.

Faculty members offered amendments for the present draft, which Vice President Price Zimmermann and the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) will discuss in a further revision of the committee draft. Zimmermann said he will probably present the revised draft to the faculty for the second vote in January. He said the most important change was the addition of one faculty member at large for the Vice-Chairman of the Faculty Pro-Tem. The Vice-Chairman normally acts as an ombudsman among faculty members, and his function as a mediator might impede his duties on the committee. Zimmermann said other minor changes were proposed which would clarify language.