September 22, 1978

The Davidsonian

Artist Series looks forward to fabulous acts and full house

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Features Editor

As a Davidson student, William Brown never attended a single Artists' Series performance. "I just didn’t know about it," he lamented. As Assistant Director of the College Union, Brown is really concerned with getting students and the community to attend the four extravaganzas. "I want to see the house filled," Brown declared.

The Artist Series performances are held in Love Auditorium where there is room for one thousand and two hundred people. In the past, attendance at the four annual productions has been fairly poor. Some shows were sold out, but several drew crowds of only three hundred.

Student ticket sales began Wednesday at the Union desk. In the past, students have been given single tickets free of charge. This year they will be asked to make a commitment by paying two dollars for the four tickets. This season ticket approach will help Brown "get a clear reading on the number of students who plan to attend." The remaining tickets will be sold through a community ticket drive.

"There is no doubt in my mind that we will sell out the house," Brown stated. "I decided to work on this last spring and I was elated when I heard about our current lineup. This is a great opportunity to get people excited."

The Artist Series for this year includes an opera with a twenty-piece orchestra, a well-known actress presenting a program on early American films, a nationally renowned ballet company, and a world-famous pianist. Specifically, the acts are as follows:

The Barber of Seville. The New York City Opera Theater will present Rossini’s popular comedy opera in Davidson. The Theater Company consists of top-rate performers who aim to bring opera, with all its flourish and feelings, to the community.

Art of Film 1920-1928. The legendary Lillian Gish presents the early history of movies through the use of film clips and her program focuses on the "art of film 1920-1928."

Brown hopes to see all that change this year. "The goal is to get people there and have a great experience," he said. One way Brown hopes to ensure attendance is by selling season tickets to both students and the community.

Kick off Thursday night
Union ready for Homecoming

By ESTHER BRUCE
Staff Writer

The first "big weekend" of the year approaches quickly, but it will not catch the Student Union unaware. The Union will kick off the weekend on Thursday night with the pop film "Little Big Man." The flick will be shown in Love Auditorium.

Friday is the busy day for Union activities. At 8 pm, the eleven-member country, western, jazz, and blues band, "Asleep at the Wheel," will offer its audience an amazing combination of music. The show includes several reworks of some older jazz hits. Their latest album, Collision Course, has received much praise, but their spontaneity as a group promises to make the live performance especially good. Tickets for the concert are $3.

The concert will barely be over before the full-scale casino party gets underway in the Union. This party will...be big, covering the whole Union. For those with equestrian interests, the FV lounge should be their headquarters. Horse races will be run on the giant screen. And they're off! The more basic gambling games—poker, craps, and blackjack—will be located in the 900 Room. Many experienced people will be watching and dealing there, including John Ratliff, who dealt blackjack in Reno this summer. An auction will wind up the evening. The lucky gamblers will be able to bid their winnings on a variety of great prizes. Saturday at the Union will be more low-key, with something light, perhaps a bluegrass band in the 900 Room. (Phil Howerton)

Annual regatta sets freshmen spinning
By JOHN CHUNG
Staff Writer

Grimacing at his second-to-last place vessel in the race, the U.S.S. Maybe, freshman Keith Hearle declared, “There are no rules in this game.” The game was, of course, last week’s annual Freshman Regatta at the Davidson Lake Norman campus. However irreverent, the age-old tradition received its deserved respect. At precisely 2:30 pm Sunday, caravans left the main campus for a fifteen-minute ride to the muddy waters to observe and partake in this moving event. The Regatta, aside from the race, includes cleverly selected games designed to make freshmen look like freshmen, but more importantly to have a good time. This year, seventeen halls were represented by all sorts of homemade boats. Teams waded and carried their vessels through muddy waters as their fans trotted up and down the shore cheering them to victory. The Regatta soon gave way to the climactic event “dizzie lizzie,” a relay race of sheer balance for the participants and certain laughter for the viewers. This game captured the full attention of all present as the competitors ran like hopeless drunkards back to their awaiting teams and some into the lake. Uniquely, the team’s performances never seemed to matter from the beginning. All those who attended subscribed to the philosophy of having a good time. The confusion and candidness of the events replaced the goal of victory. First Richardson’s boat Maybe (maybe not) was christened with a can of beer, opposing crafts were sabotaged, and Will Terry and David Grant were thrown into the lake.

Four Seasons Clothing for the Campus
Come Browse - Charge Accounts Welcomed.
Only 6 miles north of the campus