February 3, 1978

The Davidsonian

Copyright law tightens on colleges
By STEPHEN V. GOLD
Assistant News Editor

Davidson College and schools across the nation are being forced to work problems out for themselves that were created by
the new copyright laws, which went into full effect February 1. The new laws simply tighten earlier laws, and, in
effect, state that colleges and universities are no longer exempt from musical royalty fees. Music that is played by the
pep band, bands at fraternity dances, background music in buildings, music played by non-commercial radio stations and those grossing under
ten thousand dollars, and music played by departments of music are among the types of entertainment that will now cost
the school money, in a “general use of music” fee. The three major broadcast agencies that negotiate contracts with schools
are Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI); American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP); and SESAC, Inc.

Endowment office sets $35,000 goal
By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

The Office for Living Endowment and the Student Involvement Committee are conducting a telephone campaign during March to raise at
least $35,000 in pledges for alumni. The money raised by the Living Endowment office closes the gap between money received
from tuition, endowment and other predictable yearly income and expenses of the College.

“It’s sort of like a checking account for the College,” said Director of Living Endowment Thomas M. Bernhardt. The money
does not go to any one department or project, but is used as a general fund. “As a wise man
once said, ‘Money is like manure; it does the most good when it’s spread around,’” quipped Bernhardt.

The telephone campaign began two years ago on a limited scale by calling alumni in the Charlotte area. Last year
it was tried on a larger scale. Pledges totaled $35,000. The cost of the telephone campaign, which was $3,000 last
year, is not expected to increase according to Bernhardt. The campaign will be from March 13 to March 31. “This
three week period has the fewest activities, and least pressure, allowing more students to participate,” commented Bernhardt. For four nights
each week from 6:30 to 9:00 p.m., students will be calling alumni to ask for pledges.

YMCA funds scholarships
By W. CLAY MACAULEY
Staff Writer

The YM/YWCA announced this week the results of their fund drive, held last month, to raise money for the George
Reedy Memorial Scholarship Fund. In a letter sent to Ethan Atkin, headmaster of Bushiangala Secondary School, where Reedy was teaching
when he died last September, the YM/YWCA guaranteed “all non-boarding fees for five students to Bushiangala during each of the
next four school years.” The letter went on to say that after this period is up “the fund will be
reviewed and possibly extended.” Over $2700 was raised for the Fund.

The YM/YWCA suggested to Atkins that a selection committee, composed of the Executive Committee of Bushiangala along with any Davidson
students teaching at the school in Kakamega, Kenya, interview all applicants for the scholarship who qualify as finalists. The letter
listed the following criteria as basis for selection of scholarship winners:
(1) Attendance of Bushiangala during recent years.
(2) Consistent ranking in the top 20 percent of the class.
(3) Ranking in the top 20 percent of the class of KJSE achievement test.
(4) Christian character.
(5) Leadership potential.
(6) Participation in extra-curricular activities.
(7) Financial need.

Each scholarship is worth 125.00 dollars. Since the school year in Kenya runs from January to January, the scholarship will
become effective immediately after winners are selected this month.

The YM/YWCA also announced that basement Sentelle was the freshman hall which raised the most money during the Christmas fund
drive, collecting $212. The YM/YWCA also expressed its deep appreciation to students, faculty, administrative personnel, and especially to all the
freshman halls who helped raise money during the Fund Drive for this memorial to George Reedy, and hopes, as the
letter to Atkins concluded, “these scholarships in some small way will continue the work George was doing at his untimely
death.”

New procedure clears lab conflicts
By CAROLLOPTSON Staff Writer

A new procedure to identify and schedule lab periods will be incorporated in this spring’s registration. There has been a
need to make better use of afternoon periods in scheduling courses. Few courses have been scheduled in afternoons because of
possible conflicts with labs. Since lab assignments in the past have not been made until the first week of the
term, it has often been difficult to know whether an afternoon class would conflict with a lab.

Now, the Master Course Schedule will list Biology, Chemistry, and Physics lab periods, designated by LA, LB, etc. on the
schedule. The day of the lab section and hour will also be listed. This will allow students to take other
courses scheduled in the afternoon if they meet on the three or four days the lab does not meet. On
the course preference sheet, lab periods will be listed in descending order of preference in the non-credit section in the
lower box. Computer programming will match labs and courses and print them on the student’s schedule.

Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP); and SEASAC, Inc. “There’s no real financial panic,” comments Assistant Director of the Union William Brown,
about Davidson’s situation. “We can’t feel good about this, though...the (agencies and musicians) make so much money anyway.”

The proposals that the agencies are offering the schools differ somewhat. BMI wishes to charge schools five cents per student
per year as a general use fee, compared to six cents by ASCAP and two cents by the smaller SESAC.
“General use” also includes other uses where no fee is paid and/or no admission is charged; and where the performer
of an event is paid less than $1000. Orchestras, bands, and producers of musical plays, ballets, and operas usually take
out their own performing rights licenses, so no royalties are charged to the sponsor.

The one major proposal that is opposed by Executive Director of the Association of College, University, Community Arts Administrators, Inc.,
William Dawson, is ASCAP’s concert fee. Where BMI charges a fee for BMI-copyrighted material played at a concert, ASCAP charges
a fee for any music, ASCAP-owned or not, that is played. Concert rates for both agencies depend on the seating
capacity of the hall. Love Auditorium should cost $15 and $21, to BMI and ASCAP, respectively.

Brown says that some schools will automatically sign contracts with the agencies, but Davidson will take a wait-and-see approach. “The
big schools will be the first to test the new laws,” and then a clearer interpretation of the constitutionality of
these new copyright laws will be obtained, Brown feels. If a school is brought to court for infringement violations, the
damages could cost the school between $250 and $10,000.

9:30 students will phone alumni, asking them for pledges. Tim Goodell, the student coordinator of the campaign, will recruit two
student chairmen for each week. They in turn will select a chairman for each evening. “It spreads the responsibility around
and it’s very effective. Only two students didn’t show up last year,” explained Bernhardt. Last year, 175 students participated. This
year, Bernhardt hopes the number will increase to 240 or 250 students. “I think this year will be better than
last year because a lot of students who enjoyed participating last year are coming back to help,” he said.

Students averaged six calls per hour last year, less than telephone campaigners at other colleges. Bernhardt believes Davidson students spend
more time talking about Davidson with alumni. He said, “The telephone campaign provides a line of communication between the College
and the alumni. To me, that’s the real benefit.” “I’m excited. It’s a lot of fun to work with these
students,” he concluded.

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI • VEAL SCALLOPINI PARMIGIANA • STEAKS • BEER • CHOICE WINES

Parks Rexall Drugs - COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

PIERMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE
