May 12, 1978

Letter to the Editor

New energy group clarifies activities

To the Editor:

We appreciate the strong support and interest the student body has given us in our study of the energy future
of this country. In case our ideas were misconstrued, we would like to offer further clarification concerning our group’s activities.

Over a month ago, the group began investigating the problems and benefits of nuclear power and alternative energy sources. The
issue is complex, and our commitment to the understanding of the issue required extensive research. The primary concern of the
group since inception has been to avoid the bog of emotionalism and extreme positions. We understand that biased and irrational
attitudes only cloud the issue and detract from credibility. In spite of the hard work required for objective research, we
felt compelled to devote our time and effort because of the implications of nuclear power. The group is united in
its opposition.

Opinion

Common man thinks he

By ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

Editor’s note: This is the second half of a column begun last week concerning government reform and private property.

By common consent, we are said to live in a democracy, which is distinguished from all other methods of governing
by the fact that the governors and the governed are identical. It follows, then, as Victor Gollancz observed, that “anything
done in a democracy is done in your name.”

It seems reasonably obvious that if private property were abolished, a large supply of very able talent could be shifted
from creating and protecting private property to making arrangements for doing those things we ought to have done and leaving
undone those things we ought not to have done. The question persists, why is this not done in this democratic
society?

The answer is given in a delightful book by David Hapgood, The Screwing of the Average Man. What is news
is that the average person, in the United States at least, has been subtly, but effectively and completely, conned into
liking it. This new situation has been established by several subdolous measures, devices, etc. that have been developed for the
purpose of cozening and hoodwinking the average person.

One of these measures is “youtooism,” which is defined as “the belief that whatever applies to the rich applies to
the average man too, the strategy for seducing people into accepting their own screwing. It consists of giving the average
man just enough of a break to convince him he’s benefitting from the system.” No wonder we applaud when someone
blames our difficulties and ills on government. The flimflam man gets away with his chicanery because no one wants to
confess to being swindled.

The gammoning has been going on for some time in the United States, but until the post-World War II era,
complete success was confined to the area of “defense.” Veblen noted in the 1920s that: “back of it all is
the nation’s divine right to carry arms, to support a competitive military establishment, which has ceased under the new order
to have any other material use than to enforce or defend the businesslike right of particular vested interests to get
something for nothing in some particular place and in some particular way, and the common man pays the cost.”

Letter to the Editor

Vampires suck bigtime

To the Davidson Community:

On behalf of Scabbard and Blade, I would like to express our appreciation for your cooperation and support in the
Spring Blood Drive. In spite of the rain, we collected 241 pints which, when combined with the 309 pints collected
in the fall, exceed our goal for the year.

Letter to the Editor

Gladden wins UMOC laurels

To the Editor:

We offer our congratulations to Phil Gladden, winner of the Ugly Man on Campus Contest for the second year in
a row. The top vote-getters in the contest were Phil Gladden—$44.30, John Brice—$42.03, Joel Shirk—$30.66, Dr. Stell—$12.92, and John Ratliff—$12.60.
The total amount raised for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation was $142.51.was $167.75. Thanks to everyone who contributed and a special
thank you to Ron Scott for generously donating a keg as the winner’s prize.

Audrey Lazenby, President Alpha Phi Omega National Service Fraternity

This year by 117 pints. This year does not end, however, until 30 September, 1978, and I would urge all
able members of the community to give again in Charlotte before this expiration date. I wish to expressly thank the
APO service fraternity and all the volunteers who worked for their support and to thank the Davidson College Student Union
for its patience. But our special thanks go to those who gave their blood. Don’t forget that the bloodmobile returns
to Davidson next fall. Let’s keep up the good work. Thank you all again.

Wayne C. Stuart for Scabbard and Blade

The Davidsonian will hold its annual spring picnic, Wednesday, May 17 at 6:00 at Erwin Lodge. All staff members are
welcome. If you plan to come, please leave your name in the “Picnic” envelope in The Davidsonian office by Tuesday.

To nuclear power, particularly reprocessing, and resents the inhibition of the development of solar energy and other alternatives by such
preponderant emphasis on nuclear power. Many members of the group felt the Barnwell rally and protest would be effective expressions
of their commitment to energies not plagued by waste problems and high cost. They believed that legal and political avenues
of expression had failed and that a strong demonstration of commitment was necessary. Others were not sure about the efficacy
of civil disobedience. They reasoned that arrest might be counterproductive to the attempt to elicit broad support of the anti-nuclear
cause. The decision of each member of the group was personal and yet the group entered the protest with mutual
understanding about the decisions of fellow members. Everyone in the group opposes nuclear power; our methods of acting on this
commitment differ according to our ideas about how we can best achieve the development of safe, renewable resources of energy.

We feel the protest achieved important national and local coverage, although in the minds of some evening news viewers the
whole thing was written off as a party or a nostalgic trip back into a departed decade; it was neither.
In general, the rally and protest were serious attempts to share our concerns about nuclear energy with others. Neither was
an end in itself. We hope the impact of our activities will encourage others to look beyond the publicity campaigns
sponsored by those with vested interests in nuclear power. Too often these vested interests preclude an objective look at the
social costs of a nuclear future. An optimal decision can occur only if people who will benefit and suffer with
nuclear power have input into our nation’s decision-making. Our group will not stop working; we plan to continue our research
and urge anyone interested to join us. We have reading materials both pro and con, and we appreciate the chance
to share our thoughts with others.

Davidson Future Energy Group
