The Davidsonian

October 27, 1978

Chance at .500 season

Booters win two straight

By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

It’s been a busy, but satisfying week for Davidson soccer.

The Wildcats started a tough three-game home stand against The Citadel last Friday. Although the team lost a well-played game, 2-0, they gained some important insights.

“The Citadel game was an example to the kids,” said coach Karl Kremser. “They saw how The Citadel players kept after the ball, how intensely they played the entire game.”

The lesson was well learned as the Cats showed against Baptist Saturday. The team played their best soccer of the year.

“It was an hour and a half of pure ecstasy. Especially the overtime,” smiles Kremser. “I wish I had it on film.”

Through time Baptist was able to hold Davidson to a tie, forcing two ten-minute overtime periods.

They probably wished they hadn’t. Davidson exploded for three more goals and an impressive victory.

Coming off the win the team was psyched up for arch-rivals UNCC Tuesday. The game was very physical with one ejection (against UNCC) and three yellow cards (two to UNCC, one to Davidson).

Senior Captain Joel Shirk scored Davidson’s first goal at 42 minutes, 11 seconds into the first half.

Freakishly, the team’s second goal came at 42 minutes, 11 seconds into the second half off the foot of Doug Schuessler.

While the team did not play as well as they did against Baptist, they now know what it takes to win and are willing to make the effort.

“This could be the turning point, not only of the season but of soccer at Davidson,” emphasized Kremser.

“I’m sure we’ll have relapses; but I can’t see anything but good ahead of us,” added Kremser.

Shirk agrees. “A week ago the team was falling apart. We beat Catawba but we still got yelled at (by Kremser).

With these last three games things have turned around completely. It’s fun to play again,” remarks Shirk.

Shirk has special reasons for happiness: “I’ve never been on a Davidson soccer team that’s won two games in a row, much less five in a season. Now we have a chance to be .500. It’s great—all I can do is smile.”

Davidson carries its 5-6-1 record to Atlanta this weekend to play Emory and Georgia State.

By JEFF HAMILTON
Staff Writer

John Hoots rocketed into stardom last weekend and the prospects for Davidson’s Harriers are suddenly a great deal more cheerful.

The Wildcats placed 9th out of 13 teams in the annual State Cross Country Championships in Raleigh, N.C., close behind Southern Conference rivals Western Carolina and Appalachian State. Hoots’ coming of age was the essential ingredient in the team’s best showing of the year.

FRESHMAN JOHN Hoots displays his regained form on the cross-country course. Hoots led a strong showing by Davidson runners against a fine field in Saturday's N.C. State meet.

Hoots, a 5'11” freshman from Winston-Salem, was one of the finest high school runners in North Carolina and came to Davidson accompanied by a host of brilliant credentials. Until Saturday, Hoots had run solidly, but was often unable to maintain his ambitious initial pace; usually he had clung to the leaders for the first few miles but then found himself dropping back in the field.

In the State Meet, however, Hoots took off in 4:57 for the first mile, came through two miles in 10:03, and managed to retain his position splendidly for the remainder of NC State’s 10,000-meter course, finishing 34th in a remarkable 33:16.

Hoots’ arrival at the forefront gives Davidson what may be its strongest top five in history, and the team is justifiably optimistic about its chances in the Southern Conference Championships November 4 in Charleston.

Doug Horn was three places behind Hoots in 33:23, Bart Landess finished 46th and Greg Burnard set a personal best to finish 54th. John Davis (56th) and John Rees (71st) completed Davidson’s contingent. A painful Achilles heel tormented Terry Morrow during the race, and the sophomore was unable to finish.

The Wildcats hope to surprise Western Carolina, the Citadel, and possibly even Appalachian State in the conference race, and if everyone continues to improve, Davidson could conceivably move up a few notches.

ELECTRONIC SHOWCASE

DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR OF ELECTRONIC MERCHANDISE

All Single LP’s $4.99
8 Tracks $5.99

182 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

LARRY WELLS 663-3403