International students seek cultural exchange

By ALLISON LEWIS
Staff Writer

What is there to do at Davidson College for the student whose main concern is not academic pursuit?

This is the dilemma facing many of the international students, who came to Davidson, as Chris Chadwick (England) stated, for
more of a “cultural exchange than academic.”

Most of the nine international students have completed or almost completed their studies in their own country and were selected
to receive scholarships to Davidson after facing stiff competition from fellow students.

Seema Hanafi (Pakistan) has earned her bachelor's degree from a Pakistani university and considers her year at Davidson a “stepping-stone”
toward earning her Master's degree in the United States. Francoise Cougnenc (France) has earned her bachelor's degree in France and
plans to train as a bilingual secretary next year. All of the other students have completed at least one year
of education in their respective countries.

Thomas Weitz (Germany) states that he is “not here to study. I can do that in Europe. I came here
for the social exchange. This is the reason we are only taking two courses.” Weitz feels that the college has
not done enough toward helping the students see more of America than just the “isolated” community of Davidson.

According to the students, it is difficult to find transportation for weekend outings and between-term breaks.

The college did provide a car for a trip to Winston-Salem last week. Chadwick, however, commented that the car was
very difficult to obtain. He suggests that the college should give the international students priority on one of the college
cars. Weitz thinks the college ought to coordinate more ventures for the students, noting that the international students “are not
always aware of the opportunities that are available.”

Not all the international students share these sentiments, however. In the opinion of Janette Okomba (Kenya), “it is too much
to expect the college to plan every little outing.” She believes that Davidson has given her the opportunity to come
and establish friendships and that “life cannot be planned to the last detail.”

“We (the international students) need to realize the need for initiative.”

Hanafi stated that while “none of us were prepared for Davidson to be so isolated,” the office for international students
has “really been looking out for us well.”

Roberto Gonzales-Vera (Spain) commented that he does not feel isolated; he added that early-year coordination problems in the international student
office seem to be solved, and said the college is now offering more concerts, dramas, and other activities than he
can attend. Cougnenc observed that it is too early in the year to have made any really close friends, but
that living on a small campus increases the opportunity to meet people.

Cheetu Iyer (India) says that he did not expect Davidson to be like all of America when he came here.
Iyer plans to travel in America after his year at Davidson.

While all of the students say they believe that they are benefiting from their year at Davidson, some remark that
the American education system is more structured than they expected.

All too often, Okomba feels, there is not enough room for self-initiative. “Lectures take the student’s hand and guide him
along” and too many students seem to be “content to take the professor's guidelines.”

The exchange of student ideas does not play as big a role in the Davidson classroom as in Germany, where
most university courses are conducted as seminars, Weitz explained.

In the view of Nobus Sekido (Japan), Davidson takes care of the students more than at his Japanese university where
the students are not given any guidance by faculty advisors and are expected to find things out for themselves.

Despite whatever shortcomings the international students feel that Davidson College may have, they all expressed gratitude at being given the
opportunity to study in America and for the friendliness shown them by the other Davidson students.

“Every corner you turn,” states Okomba, “there is a smile waiting for you.”
