The Davidsonian

October 27, 1978

Three student groups push towards elections

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

For a small group of Davidson students, politics means more than Student Government Association elections. In fact, campus politics are of little or no concern to these people.

As November 7 draws near, the Young Democrats, Young Republicans, and Young Libertarian Alliance are concentrating their political efforts on national and state elections.

Though many of these students are not North Carolina citizens and therefore will not cast North Carolina ballots, they enjoy partisan politics, have party loyalties, and support their respective party's candidates within this state.

Support for North Carolina candidates by out-of-state citizens is dramatized in the race for United States Senator. Incumbent Senator Jesse Helms, a conservative Republican with a conservative record, is under heavy fire from the Young Democrats, while receiving moderate support from the Young Republicans.

Young Democrats president Maria Patterson reports that this time a year ago, her organization was divided in its support for the three major party candidates; some members supported McNeil Smith, while others favored Luther Hodges and John Ingram. When Ingram won in the primary, the group shifted its attention to the party’s candidate. Some members like Chuck Gaddy, who terms himself “a hard-core Democrat,” left the organization. Patterson said that they “support Ingram to the extent that he is a Democrat, and we're just against Helms.”

Ingram brought some members into the Ingram camp. Patterson, a one-time Smith supporter, claims that the current Ingram organization receives its greatest strength from former Smith supporters.

To combat the Young Democrat’s support of Ingram, the Young Republicans pose only a moderate threat. Young Republicans president Sybil Jones says that the 25 members of her organization have political ideologies “ranging from the ultra-conservative to the more liberal.”

Aside from putting up posters, telephoning registered voters, and attending rallies, the two groups are also actively involved in voter registration and making available absentee ballots.

The seat of U.S. Representative Jim Martin, a Republican who once served on the Davidson faculty, is also in question. One Young Democrat charges that “the ingenuity of Jim Martin to utilize his Davidson education for conservative populism” is a threat to challenger Charles Maxwell, a Democrat. While some of the Young Republicans at Davidson are too liberal to support the conservative Martin, the majority of the members have jumped on the Martin bandwagon. The fact that Maxwell has two convictions for driving under the influence of alcohol does not deter the Young Democrats.

Patterson was quick to admit, however, that trips to telephone potential supporters have yielded little “name recognition.” "You wouldn't believe how many people we called have never heard of him,” Patterson said.

A third political organization on campus that is not widely known nationally is the Young Libertarian Alliance. The Young Libertarians are more concerned with public forums and debate than the upcoming 1978 elections. President Eugene Heath characterizes his organization as an alternative to the politics and policies of the Democrats and Republicans. The Alliance views its primary role as that of advocating students towards “libertarianism.”

Heath quotes Karl Hess in saying, “Libertarianism is the view that each man is the absolute owner of his life, to use and dispose of it as he sees fit; and that respect for every other man’s similar and equal ownership of life is the ethical basis of a human and ethical society.”

Although opposed to any form of human suffering, however slight, the Young Libertarians support Dick Pesotto for the U.S. House of Representatives of the Libertarian Party.