November 3, 1978

The Davidsonian

Commons design proposed.

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze and the development firm of Marvin Associates have assembled a tentative design and site for
the College Commons, the proposed eating house for freshmen and independent upperclassmen. However, Meetze cautions that these plans are only
possibilities at the present time.

The tentative design of the building calls for an immediate seating capacity of about 300, with an additional dining shell
being built which could be furnished and operative as soon as the need for a larger capacity arises. With building
costs increasing at the rate of 1 percent per month, Meetze feels that it is imperative that future needs be
incorporated into the present design.

Presently the most likely site is between Bailey and Richards, the adjacent houses which currently serve freshmen and independent upperclassmen.
The plan calls for the two houses to be moved farther apart to make room for the Commons. These houses
would then be used for eating houses for upperclassmen.

Rather than resembling the other twelve houses on Patterson Court, the Commons will be built in a more contemporary style.
Meetze hopes to utilize the natural grade to construct partially submerged kitchen and service areas at the south end of
the building. The dining area would look out onto the middle of Patterson Court and would be glassed in with
a dining patio adjacent. This plan would also include the creation of an artificial lake in the middle of the
Court, with landscaping around it.

Meetze feels that the proposed site is ideal from the standpoint of the logistics of student activity. However, the final
decision depends on the costs of the relocation of Bailey and Richards and the rerouting of the power line which
runs through Patterson Court. As of now, the building will cost an estimated $2 million. Meetze believes that an architectural
firm will be selected by Thanksgiving, and, after that, the project “will be off and rolling.” Actual construction should begin
by July, and the building is scheduled to be completed shortly before the incoming freshman class arrives in 1980. Although
these plans are not definite, Meetze feels certain the Commons will be an innovative, vital building. “The Commons will not
be an ordinary cafeteria,” he says, concluding, its design “may be a first” for the Davidson campus.

(CPS)—As tuition costs continue to rise, students are often left wondering where all the money goes. One expert has spoken
up to say that he knows that, though faculty and staff salaries account for about three-fourths of a school’s budget,
the money doesn’t seem to be going to faculty members. Howard Bowen, economics professor at Claremont Graduate School, has charted
average faculty wages and benefits from 1903-04 through 1976-77. His figures show that, although salaries have come a long way
from 1903’s average $1500, real wages have been declining in comparison to other occupations. Bowen warns that if the disparity
continues, faculty earnings in ten years will be 9 to 18 percent below those in other occupations and, in 20
years, a full third below. The overall effect of the decline, Bowen says, is likely to entice the most able
academics into other, more lucrative fields. Bowen computed the salaries in terms of 1967-value dollars.

A PUMPKIN on the shoulder (Bill Purcell)

Magazine gets unexpected response

(Continued from page 1)

“hot,” commented Collins. Collins continued, “We’re not looking for New Yorker type stuff. We’re out for stuff that will appeal
to students.” Faculty response has also been favorable. According to Collins, at least three faculty contributions have been received, and
Art Professor Russ Warren has promised the magazine some of his prints. Collins said he hopes the magazine can spark
debate by publishing five essays so far. He explained the magazine will print “some articles that we feel will provoke”Opposing
views. We think of the magazine as a platform for students’ ideas and thoughts.” Collins said the main obstacle at
present is selecting a printer. “We have appointments to go down to Charlotte and interview three printers. We’re trying to
get the kind of paper that will do the most for our photography.” Hall said the magazine will choose a
printer this week. “It’s not really a problem, we just haven't gotten one yet,” she remarked. The magazine will be
standard magazine size, 8” by 11”. Collins estimated the first issue will probably be 32 pages. Hall said the magazine
will come out five to six times a year, that is, about twice each term. “We'll have to check with
the Media Board, but what we want to do is put one copy under each door in the dorms and
mail copies to alumni as part of our big subscription drive,” said Hall. The Media Board will also determine the
yearly procedure for selecting the editor of the magazine. Probably upcoming January elections will not include the election of next
year’s editor of Hobart’s Park. “The reason there won’t be an election in January is not that we're unorganized, but
that it’s a baby magazine and it needs solid continuity this year,” stated Hall. Collins demurred, “All of that I’ll
defer to the Media Board. We have our own recommendations. I'd just as soon not comment on that at this
time.” However, Hall continued, “We've talked about it and we’d like to either have in-house elections or appoint. There should
be no problem since every editor, other than Greg and Lyman and me, is a junior or sophomore. “It depends
on what the Media Board says. So far the Media Board hasn’t been organized enough to come to us,” concluded
Hall.

Affirmative action is gasping

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)—A new survey shows that despite many schools’ pledges to increase minority enrollment, affirmative action in higher education
admissions programs is barely alive. A National Association of College Admissions Counselors survey of over 1,000 four-year schools found that
although 69 percent of the schools said they have an affirmative action policy, most of them didn’t have formal procedures
for admitting more minorities. For example:
—84.5 percent of the schools have no goals for the numbers of minorities they wish to admit.
—57.4 percent do not budget monies for minority student recruitment.
—90.6 percent have the same admissions requirements for minorities they have for other students.
—85.8 percent give minority enrollees no extra time to adjust to college life before reasons.

The report, outlined in Higher Education Daily, also pointed out apparent inconsistencies in the importance of standardized test scores to
minority admissions. While almost all of the schools said there is no difference in admissions requirements for minorities, 85.4 also
said test scores are not a major factor in minority admissions decisions. This “seems to indicate that either the institutions
contradicted themselves or aptitude test scores are not a major factor in determining admissions for any students,” the report stated.

Statistically, minority representation in colleges has risen only 4.7 percent between 1969 and 1977 to its current 13.1 percent, while
minorities are 16.1 percent of the overall population. Kent, of the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students, isn’t
optimistic and believes the current situation will slow admissions office action even more. “Given their opportunity over the past 10
years in which there were no restrictions of any kind and they only increased (minority representation) by five percent... and
given the current situation where they have to sit down and work out a plan, it seems likely to me
that they’ll say ‘we can’t do this,’” Kent said.

Seni Flowers
Cornelius, N.C.
Closed Tuesdays.
302 Smith Circle

BANQUET ROOMS AVAILABLE
Take Out Service
RS. 38 WM. 7013
375-7449
