October 27, 1978 The Davidsonian

SAT, GRE make money for obscure

LAWRENCEVILLE, (CPS)—Camouflaged in the gently cantilevered hills of Lawrenceville is one of the most influential unknown corporations in America. Critics like to characterize it as an unchecked monopoly, a gatekeeper, a cradle-to-grave arbiter of social mobility. Forbes Magazine, after noting the 370 acres of prime real estate, the artificial pond, the real ducks, the $3 million conference center, the tasteful brick buildings, the savvy investments, called it one of the hottest little growth companies around. Information officer John Smith calls it a very concerned organization, with a lot of integrity. The IRS calls it non-profit.

Most Americans have little to say about the Educational Testing Service (ETS). They know it only as a multiple-choice test that stands between them and college, grad school, law school, and now more than 50 professions ranging from podiatrist to CIA agent. Last year over a million students took the ETS-designed Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT). Another 800,000 sat down to one of a battery of graduate exams. Countless others, from pre-schoolers to auto mechanics, were measured, assessed, and, say the critics, judged by an ETS test. These programs, plus grants from government and the private sector, netted ETS $70 million in 1977 with a profit margin of about $1 million. ETS, in short, is a very successful non-profit company.

A rubber stamp?

“For too many students, the decision to take a standardized admission test creates a statistical shadow which follows them through life, often without their knowledge or control,” says Congressman Michael Harrington (D-Mass). Harrington has introduced a “Truth in Testing” bill designed to open standardized testing to public scrutiny and control. California recently passed a similar bill, and one is now pending before the New York legislature.

This action comes 30 years after the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, the American Council for Education, and the College Board Entrance Examination Board (CEEB) established ETS as a separate entity chartered to construct educational tests. Of this triumvirate, CEEB was and is the most important. An umbrella organization representing over 2500 schools of every character, it contracts with ETS to provide admissions tests. Despite their historical tie, the relationship is supposed to be purely contractual, with CEEB acting as consumer protector.

“Not so,” says Nader researcher Alan Nairns, “The college board is a rubber stamp for ETS, and therefore not accountable to the students who must take and pay for the exams.”

“Historical” and “amicable” are the words ETS president William Turnbull uses to describe the relationship. He should also say profitable. Last year CEEB programs accounted for more than 42 percent of ETS revenues.

“ETS is not a gatekeeper,” he says, claiming that charge is not only untrue but a bad metaphor. “ETS is a custom gatemaker according to the dictates of the person who wants the gate. I do think it’s important that someone other than ETS makes those decisions.” Turnbull admits that ETS, as the largest educational research organization in the country, often conducts the studies that validate its own tests to clients like CEEB, but he points to the distinguished educators involved in the CEEB-ETS relationship as proof that motives are pure.

“Do you think men of this caliber would be involved in anything like that?” asked John Smith as we examined a list of ETS trustees.

Historical friendliness aside, it was revealed in 1974 that the ETS-CEEB contract contained two clauses forbidding both parties from doing business with any competitors. Lawyers at the time said that this was probably an illegal restraint of trade but pointed out that the courts are reluctant to apply antitrust law to areas involving education.

Whatever the nature of the relationship, their union has produced one controversial monument: the SAT. Objective, simple, practical, graded in milliseconds, a quick study for harried admissions officers, it has become a rite of passage for millions of students. But what exactly does it test?

“The SAT only measures a student’s developed ability in a particular area at a given time,” says Turnbull.

It’s the school’s fault

One-time Einstein collaborator and longtime ETS gadfly Banesh Hoffman disagrees: “They reward superficiality, ignore creativity and penalize the person with a subtle probing mind.” Ralph Nader and Harrington echo Hoffman’s charge that the tests ignore such vital qualities as creativity, integrity, and maturity. Turnbull agrees: “It’s not as if there were an array of things to test, and ETS chose only a couple. We test only what we know how to measure.” He adds that if the test has come to influence the allocation of academic opportunity, then the fault lies not with ETS, but with the colleges.

Still, ETS is not completely blameless. While they hedge on stating exactly what predictive value the tests possess, they wax poetic on their test’s rigorous development. Oscar K. Buros, who reviews nearly 1500 tests in his Mental Measurements Yearbook, describes the SAT as “highly perfected—possibly reaching the pinnacle of the current state of the art of psychometrics.” Is it odd for people to assume that such a technically exquisite test ought to have some predictive value?

The question of prediction is a sensitive one at ETS. CorrelationBetween test scores and college grades is only .4. For some reason, men consistently score higher than women, although the latter have better academic records coming into the test. Ethnic groups score lower than whites. ETS studies have revealed that there is a direct and continuous correlation between family income and SAT scores. There is a standard error of measurement of 30 points. Consequently, the true score of a person receiving a 600 lies somewhere between 570 and 630. Such revelations prompted the “Truth in Testing” legislation. Briefly, the bills would require all testing firms to make public all reliability and validity studies; to publish a prominent warning that the allegedly exact score is only an approximation; to provide test applications with a specific description of what skills are being tested; to publish all test questions after 30 days; and to notify students and schools of any irregularities.

Top secret Turnbull agrees with the spirit of the legislation but claims that ETS already fulfills all the criteria except publishing test questions. They could do that, but the cost would have to be passed on to the student. “None of our research is classified,” he says, a claim that both Nairns and former New York Magazine writer Stephen Brill dispute. Both recount the prevalence of the top secret stamp at ETS. Regarding ETS errors, Vice President Robert Solomon has testified before HEW’s Privacy Commission that they were “to the best of our experience” no problems. Since then, 95 percent of the takers of the November 5, 1977 GMAT were scored 9 or 10 points too low. The mistake was discovered only several months after the scores had been mailed out. At the time of discovery, John High, associate program director for the management program, called it “a very serious error. It was caught quite by chance.”

In July and October, two different LSAT exams were administered. ETS says the exams were of equal difficulty and cannot explain why one group did so much better than the other. Law schools were not informed that the tests were different. The tests are nationally accepted nonetheless. President Turnbull agrees that certainly “with more tests in use the possibility of misuse increases.”

So what’s on the horizon? In this decade, ETS has moved increasingly away from academics and into testing “occupational competence.” They are developing such tests. A long-range goal is to perfect a system.

Tenure committee discussed (Continued from page 1)

cer’s first argument, citing the fact that one of the major criteria for tenure, as stipulated in the Code of Evaluation, is the professor’s ability to teach. Brown stated, “The students may be in the only position to effectively evaluate teaching ability.” In response to Spencer’s second argument, Brown stressed that the student committee member, like the faculty member, would be expected to voluntarily withdraw in cases of conflict of interest and insensitivity.

Patterson pointed out the impracticality of having student committee members because of the amount of time demanded by the responsibilities of the position. Seven faculty members become eligible for tenure evaluation this year and Patterson noted that each decision will require a considerable amount of time and effort. Another aspect of the proposed Tenure Committee warranting consideration by the PAC is determining a course of action in the event of conflicting recommendations by the Tenure Committee and the President. Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann agreed with the idea that some mechanism ought to be incorporated into the PAC’s proposal guaranteeing the presentation of Tenure Committee recommendations along with those of the President to the Trustees, with whom the final tenure decision rests.

(Continued from page 1)

the main questions troubling his defunct student staff: Should they go back to work for WDAV now that it’s a college station? And should they try to help establish a 100-watt student station? Last week, Thompson said he hoped no former WDAV staffers would go back to work. Yesterday, he said everyone on the staff is free to “use their own judgment” and that those who decide to go back will have his “blessings and endorsements.” Last week, he said he would oppose any attempt to set up a campus station. Yesterday, he told the small crowd that he thinks the Trustee decision may now be “irreversible” and “it appears we will be pushing for a 100-watt station.” The SGA Senate independently decided to set up a committee to look into the possibility of setting up a new station, according to Brown. Brown added the committee will probably include two former WDAV staff members, two other students, and two members from the faculty or staff.