Crucial Mid-East situation: Lord and Lady search for hope

By LYMAN COLLINS
Executive Editor

“When you work with people as I've worked with people, you become devoted to them naturally. It was my business to absorb myself in them and to make their aims my aims. We were working not against each other but together.” In this manner, Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow Lord Caradon expressed his personal devotion to the people he has served throughout his long career in the British Colonial Service. His career has been filled with “the joy of working with people you are not governing, but serving.”

Reminiscing on the many joys and occasional tribulations that both she and her husband have experienced in their years of living throughout the world, Lady Caradon told of the sometimes hectic life of a Governor General and his lady. “I always arrived after he did. I'm reminded of a book written by a woman in about 1942 called Pack and Follow, and this could have been the story of my life,” she explained.

The leader of the country, later known as King Abdullah, had two wives: one very dignified and formal, the other fat and jolly. Both women lived a harem-like life and seldom went beyond the palace. But Lady Caradon persuaded Abdullah to allow them to come to her home after the hospital had been bombed in Cairo to make bandages and pajamas for the patients there. “They were so pleased that they were making their contribution to the war effort. They sat down and made pajamas, most of them made wrong. But they worked hard, and they chatted, and they enjoyed it, and they were happy.”

“What I’m trying to do in the Middle East is search for solutions -- not take sides. So many people are concerned with abusing their opponents, justifying their own positions. I’m not interested in that. I believe we should be thinking about how we can make the world a better place, not by one great country in the world doing it to the exclusion of everyone else, but everyone working together.”

Both Lord and Lady Caradon affirmed their belief in mankind. Lady Caradon explained, “You can find human beings marvelous if you don’t shut yourself in yourself. All you have to do is show you are keen and interested and believe they are good, and you will find they are good.”

Despite the long separations and the pain of having to educate their children in England, Lord and Lady Caradon have found their experiences rewarding. For Lord Caradon, “the opportunities to work with individuals of outstanding capacities like Nyerere, Hussein, and of course Adlai Stevenson” has been the most rewarding aspect of his career. But Lord Caradon also values his experiences with the common people he has served. “I walked once from the Mediterranean to Damascus, taking a week or so, alone, and every village I came to, they would welcome me and give me a meal and look after me for the night, people I had never met before and would never meet again. I was a dusty, English stranger walking, and the readiness and eagerness to hear the news of the world I found most encouraging,” he concluded.

Lord Caradon, a firm believer in “the obligation of optimism,” continues to work for a settlement in the Middle East where he has worked much of his life. “You've got to believe that it is possible to act effectively; otherwise, everything you do is useless, worthless,” he emphasized.

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Vol. LXVII, No. THIRTEEN
January 20, 1978

HEAD BASKETBALL Coach Dave Pritchett was given a medical leave of absence. See Story, page 13.

Faculty okays reduced load

By SALLIE SUMMEY
Staff Writer

In a meeting yesterday, the faculty decided that being ahead of normal progress is sufficient reason for seniors to take a reduced course load. Chairman of the Curriculum Requirements Committee (CRC) Richard C. Burts said he had also considered allowing juniors, sophomores, and freshmen to take reduced loads if...They have more credits than they need, and came to the conclusion that "this would not be a wise thing to do." "Seniors are no different from sophomores or juniors," Burts said, "but in the case of seniors, the circumstances are different." He explained that seniors are closer to fulfilling their course requirements and are therefore in a better position to take a reduced load. Burts described the situation as a senior privilege, a "trump to play when the student needs it most." But Burts also pointed out that it is still possible for a senior to fail, or fall behind in the number of courses. Burts stated that "The action the CRC took today has no relation to financial responsibility. A student may think taking a fewer number of courses will be easier financially, but it is not." The comprehensive fee will remain the same regardless of the number of courses a student takes.

Procedures for taking a reduced load require the student to fill out a form stating whether he wants to take one or two courses, and his reasons for requesting a reduced load. SGA President Thom Young was pleased that the CRC finally took an affirmative stand. He expressed his appreciation to the students who supported the petition to the CRC, even though the decision was made before the petition reached the committee. "I appreciate the students’ support. It was a good sign of student interest," Young said.

College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann explained to The Davidsonian the evaluation procedures that are used in contract renewal cases. Non-tenured faculty members’ contracts are usually evaluated every two years, and at that time, the administration decides whether or not their contracts will be renewed. Zimmermann said, "The procedure in contract renewals has been that the chairman of the relevant departments and I conduct the discussion and investigation." Senior members of the relevant departments who have worked closely with the professor under evaluation are asked to submit recommendations or are interviewed. In some cases, junior members of the relevant departments are also consulted.

Zimmermann explained that the three general criteria used in evaluating faculty are "teaching effectiveness, professional standards, and service to the community." Spencer added, "We are looking for people who are outstanding teachers, outstanding persons, because we want to have a distinguished faculty. The nature and character of your faculty is the most important thing about a college and you have a responsibility to try and build a faculty that is as competent as possible." "No one is perfect in everything," Zimmermann declared. "But the question that is always on our mind is, 'Is this person the very best we can have in this position?'"

"One of the problems anyone has in building an outstanding faculty is weighing the issue of competence versus outstanding quality." Zimmermann explained that decisions are difficult when an evaluation involves a faculty member who is competent but who may not turn out to be outstanding. "When someone is let go there will always be some question and there will always be some students and faculty that think it’s the wrong decision." "The question to be asked is 'What is the large picture?' Is this person the very best we can have in this position? If we don't ask ourselves that question continually, we'll end up with a good faculty but not an outstanding one," Zimmermann elaborated.

Some faculty and students believe that Devon is such an outstanding scholar. They perceive irregularities in the administration’s evaluation of Devon and question the partiality and wisdom of the decision not to renew her contract. Devon was called to a meeting with Spencer and [See QUESTIONS, page 2]