The Davidsonian
May 5, 1978

Blinkhorn, Brown, Purcell leave Cats lament leadership loss.
By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Baseball season has ended for the 1978 Wildcat baseball team and the season’s end marks the end of three seniors’ college careers. Rick Blinkhorn, Stan Brown, and Tim Purcell played their final game this past week for the Cats. Their graduation will hurt the Cats since all three played crucial roles in the baseball program.

Co-Captain Tim Purcell has pitched four years for the Cats, two of those years as a reliever and the last two years as a starter. Purcell served as the “ace” for the Cats this year, pitching a 2-6 record this season and finished with an ERA of 4.87. Next year the versatile Purcell plans to use another of his talents by singing professionally for a band in Atlanta.

Stan Brown has started for three years in the Cats outfield. His sophomore year he started at right field and last year he moved to center field where he has impressed teammates, opponents, and scouts. In the field, Brown’s quickness allows him to cover a lot of the outfield and to make many catches that a slower fielder could not. In addition, Brown has a tremendously strong “rifle-arm,” indeed, one that many believe could contend with any college player in the nation. Brown threw out nine opposing baserunners this year and respect for his arm has prevented many other runners from even trying to advance. In addition to his fielding, Brown anchored the Cats hitting attack by pounding a .300 career batting average for his four years with the Cats. This year he hit .346 and led the Cats in home runs with six. Throughout this season, Brown has been watched with delighted interest by numerous professional scouts. Next year Brown will be in law school at Vanderbilt and would like to take spring term off to play pro baseball. His plans depend on the approaching baseball draft that will determine whether Brown will be signed or not. At present his chances appear quite good.

Co-Captain Rick Blinkhorn has started at second base for three years for the Cats. In his sophomore year, he led the Cats with a .354 hitting average and was voted second team all-Southern Conference. This year “Blink” hit .300 for the Cats. Blinkhorn’s greatest contribution to the Davidson baseball program lies within something that statistics do not measure. For instance, Coach Palmer Muench says about Blinkhorn, “He has been a leader in recruiting, in running practices, and in pulling the team together during games. His good attitude has added tremendously to the team.” Next year, Blinkhorn hopes to be in medical school.

Davidson baseball has benefited greatly from these three seniors’ achievements and contributions. Their loss will be felt quite deeply since they led the Cats in statistics, experience, and leadership. As Coach Muench explains, “You don’t lose three important players, like Brown, Blinkhorn, and Purcell have been, without feeling the effects of their loss from the program.”

Golfers surprise competition
By SCOTT GILMORE
Staff Writer

The Wildcat golf team returned from the Southern Conference championship with a sixth-place finish in an eight-team field. The 54-hole tournament was held at the Country Club of South Carolina in Florence. The windy and rainy conditions made the long layout very difficult. Freshman L.D. Simmons led a Wildcat rally the final day with a superb one over par 73. The golfers passed both Western Carolina and The Citadel the last day and avoided a possible last place finish. Simmons had a three-day total of 232 that placed him in the top ten individually and subsequently earned him all-conference honors.

Juniors Sollie Foy, Joe Davis, and Jim Heard joined sophomore Scott Gilmore and freshman Bill Baird in rounding out the six-man Wildcat squad. Appalachian State captured the team title by five shots over UT-Chattanooga and tenShots over rapidly fading pre-tournament favorite Marshall. Donnie Green of UTC won individual honors in a surprise with rounds of 74, 73, and 74. Appalachian’s GENERAL CONTRACTORS ® P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N. C. M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary Greg French and VMI’s Jeb Burton were two shots behind Green with totals of 223. The Wildcats were obviously disappointed with their showing in the final tournament of their season. They had entertained realistic hopes of cracking into the top four. As Jim Heard aptly stated, “Our effort to bring it around on the back came up short.”

The addition of more state schools such as UTC, Marshall, and East Tennessee State will make it more difficult for Davidson to compete successfully in golf as well as other sports. However, the team remains optimistic about the future. This spring the team received invitations to many outstanding tournaments featuring the nation’s top-ranked teams. Although this was often very humbling, the valuable experience gained will certainly help prepare the team for serious title hopes in future Southern Conference championships.

Record year ends
By DAVID REICH
Staff Writer

Davidson’s tennis team completed its season Saturday with a fourth-place finish in the Southern Conference Tournament. Although the Davidson netters were disappointed with the tournament results, Coach Jeff Frank emphasized that, “This season’s 24-5 record represents a great season in which we won more matches than any tennis team in Davidson history.” Clearly, Frank was pleased with the team’s play throughout the regular season. He emphasized that the Cats played up to their potential in almost every match. He attributed this fact to strenuous conditioning, senior leadership, and overall team effort.

Frank was also pleased with the overall team play in the conference tournament. He stated that, “Although we lost some hard-fought matches early, we probably could not have played better than we did. The competition at the conference this year was the toughest it has ever been. Between UTC, Furman, Appalachian, The Citadel, and ourselves, all the draws were difficult to say the least.”

Even though the competition was fierce, several Wildcat netters did excel in individual play. In singles, Chip Bondurant ended an impressive regular season by capturing the Southern Conference Championship in the number two spot. Bondurant defeated McWaters of The Citadel in the semi-finals 7-5, 7-6, and Davis Babb of Appalachian 7-6, 2-6, 7-5 in the finals. As his doubles partner, freshman Jay Gepfert, emphasized, “Bondurant’s play in the match with Babb exemplifies his gutsy play all year. He fought off three match points with aggressive play and just beat the guy mentally.”

John Trout and Steve Holman also played well at their respective singles positions. Trout finished third in the tournament at the number five spot, and Holman finished third at the number six spot. In doubles play, Bondurant and Gepfert teamed to win the championship at the number one spot. They defeated Furman’s number one doubles in the first round, Dan West and Babb of Appalachian in the semi-finals, and The Citadel’s tough number one doubles in the finals, 7-5, 6-2.

Looking ahead toward next season, Frank will obviously miss the consistent play of Bondurant, as well as the other seniors who graduate this year. He stated, “It’s impossible to replace Mike Barnhill, Bondurant, Holman, Brian Cooper, Brian Berry, Steve Johnson, and Stewart Boswell without a loss of experience, but we do have several recruits who should help the team next year. John Carlton, Nevins Todd, Jeff Wall, and Nicholas Viest all are promising players. They should add to our present nucleus to form another successful team.”

Help Wanted:
The position of Chancellor (Sec-Treas) of the SGA needs filling. Must know how to type proficiently. Pays $25/week. If interested contact Bruce Brown at 5410 or 892-2000, ext. 147, or Tom Mahoney or John Jackson at 5373. Deadline is May 7.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE