. September 8, 1978

Unusual preacher will speak

Some clergymen take upon themselves the comforting of the Establishment, others the oppressed. Will D. Campbell ministers to everyone, but notably to society’s critics. Lord save him, he says, from “the wrath of the righteous.”

He is now outside any church, but every weekend pilgrims ranging from outlaw Waylon Jennings to satirists like Jules Feiffer and Garry (Doonesbury) Trudeau stream into Campbell’s Mount Juliet, Tenn. home. “We sit under the white oaks, drink whiskey, and talk about God,” smiles Will.

He was the civil rights standard-bearer for the National Council of Churches, the self-described “redneck” who stood with Martin Luther King Jr., H. Rap Brown, and Andrew Young through the tumult of the southern integration.

As chaplain at Ole Miss in the mid-1950s, he was one of the first white ministers in the South to encourage blacks to battle racism.

His several books include The Failure and the Hope, Callings, And the Criminals with Him, and, most recently, Brother to a Dragonfly.

Today Campbell is the director of a loosely structured Committee of Southern Churchmen, whose message is a cryptic “Be reconciled.”

“Some people say to watch out for me, that I offer cheap grace,” he acknowledges. But he insists “the truth is that the Christian faith just can’t be as complicated as we’ve made it.”

In his inimitable way, Will Campbell has reduced the basics almost to a one-liner. “We’re all bastards,” he says, “but God loves us anyway.”

Campbell will be speaking at the first weekly campus/community worship service of the year at 7 p.m. Wednesday, September 13 in the DCPC. He will also speak informally and perhaps sing on Thursday, September 14 in the 900 Room.

campus activities

September 8: Pop Film, Five Easy Pieces, Love. 7:00 and 10:30. (Please note time change.)
Davidson Community Players present Neil Simon’s Plaza Suite, Hodson Hall. 8:15.
Pep Rally and Bonfire, Patterson Court. 8:30.
Buffo: an entertainer (see story). 900 Room. 10:00.

September 9: Plaza Suite. See Friday.
Buckacre Concert. Love. 8:30.

September 10: Freshman Regatta, Lake Campus. 2:00.

September 11: Tryouts for Fall Major Drama Production, Hodson Hall. 7:00-10:00 p.m.

September 12: Opening of Frank di Gioia Exhibition, Gallery.

September 15: Pop Film, Goodbye Girl, Love. 8:00 and 10:30.

BUFFO, a multi-talented performer, will enchant Davidson students with tonight's performance. (Drawing by Mark Tyndall)

Buffo entertains tonight

Howard Buten, aka Buffo, was born and grew up in Detroit, MI. By the time he graduated from high school, he had worked as a professional artist, having his work on display in local galleries; published some poems and articles in local magazines; and played music professionally as a songwriter-guitarist, drummer, with a “working knowledge” of the trumpet and violin.

He attended the University of Michigan for two years before he ran away to join the circus. He was accepted to and graduated from the Ringling Bros. and Barnum and Bailey Clown College of Venice, Florida, and toured for two years as the featured clown of the Circus Bartok, a European-style one-ring tent. While on the road, he added concertina and banjo to his Musical Clown repertoire. In 1972 he returned to Detroit to write and co-star in WXYZ (ABC) television’s “Super Circus” show.

Disillusioned with the inhibiting atmosphere of local television, though, he left the network to do something totally unique. He became Buffo. As Buffo, Buten combines all of his cultivated talents into one character: Clown, Singer, Musician, Mime, Artist.

Buten has composed dozens of songs, many especially for Buffo; plays trumpet, violin, cello, drums, guitar, concertina, banjo, and harmonica; has published thirty articles on a variety of subjects, has written four novels (as yet unpublished); speaks Chinese (Peking Mandarin), Polish, and Spanish; has taught for a year and a half in the Wayne State University Theatre Department; twice toured Japan as Buffo; and is currently on the staff of The Children’s Orthogenic Center of Detroit as a psycho-therapist, specializing in work with autistic children.

Buffo will be appearing in the 900 Room tonight at 10:00 p.m. Admission is 50 cents.

BUCKACRE to give concert

The name “Buckacre,” according to the band’s lead guitarist Dick Verucchi, is southern slang for “beginner’s fear.” The name was chosen, he says, because “the music business is so big, so awesome, that we had the buckacres.”

Those initial fears have been conquered by now, though, since the band has grown. From their beginnings in Illinois, the group moved to Tampa, Florida, where they acquired a substantial following in that area and throughout the Southeast. They then moved to Atlanta and soon went to London where they recorded their debut album in 1976.

They bring their unique blend of rock to Love Auditorium on Saturday, September 9 at 8:30. Tickets are $1. An added bonus: Your money back if you don’t like the show.