May 12, 1978

Pamela Camerra, Acting Editor
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager

Volume LXVII, Number Twenty-seven

May 12, 1978

A final word

The past six months have not been easy. Serious questions have been raised concerning basic human rights and responsibilities in
regard to three major issues: the Devon case, the Faculty Code of Evaluation, and the actions of Davidsonian editor Philip
Duncan. The implications of these issues deserve careful consideration by the entire college community.

The Devon Case

The contract of Professor of Political Science Tonia Devon was not renewed last December. Questions were raised concerning the subjectivity
of the Administration’s evaluation of her. There was no written statement of evaluation procedures. The untenured faculty members did not
know what criteria would be used to evaluate them. They perceived a “personal vendetta” and “gross incompetence” in the Administration’s
evaluation of an unorthodox, outspoken faculty member. As a result, untenured professors fear “rocking the boat.” They are unwilling to
speak freely because of the possibility that it will endanger their future position on the faculty. This intimidation threatens the
faculty’s basic freedom to disagree with established policies.

The Code of Evaluation

The Devon case hastened the drafting of a written Faculty Code of Evaluation. We had hoped that such a document
would alleviate some of the fears and anxieties of untenured professors. However, the proposed Code does not guarantee them the
freedom of expression. There is still a clause demanding “support of established faculty policy.” Speaking out against traditional policy could
easily be used by the Administration as reason for not renewing a contract or granting tenure. The non-status of untenured
faculty members in the evaluation process also raises concern about their value as participants in the college community. There is
no guarantee in the Code that their opinions will be actively sought and used or that they will have any
role in determining the academic atmosphere of the College.

The Administration, however, is not alone to blame. Freedom of speech, as Dr. Carl Cohen noted in his lecture several
weeks ago, involves some pain and some responsibility. The faculty has shirked its responsibility; it has refused to sacrifice in
order to guarantee freedom of expression. If it wishes to criticize the Administration, it must be willing to actively participate
in the decision-making process. If it objected to the subjectiveness of the Administration’s evaluation process, it should have taken two
actions. First, it should have taken an active stand on Dr. Devon’s case rather than remaining silent. Professors said privately
they disagreed with the Administration's decision, but only one was willing to openly discuss this issue with the Administration. Second,
the senior faculty members should be willing to establish and actively participate in a faculty tenure committee in order to
guarantee their input in the evaluation process. The senior faculty can either recognize and accept its responsibility or remain apathetic
and silent.

Freedom of the Press

Questions arose last month concerning the actions of Davidsonian editor Philip Duncan in regard to his method of obtaining a
copy of the Faculty Code of Evaluation. We do not condone his actions. But this incident has serious implications with
respect to freedom of the press and The Davidsonian’s relationship to the college community. The press is often critical, often
even biased or wrong. But because of its essential function in society, freedom of the press is guaranteed in the
Bill of Rights. The press is necessary for raising questions, provoking discussion, uncovering and exposing issues that might otherwise never
surface.

Members of the Professional Affairs Committee and the Administration told The Davidsonian that the Code would not be a controversial
document. They said it was “no big deal” and wondered why we were so persistent in trying to obtain a
copy. We felt it was a crucial document, especially for untenured faculty members. It proved to be both controversial and
important to the faculty as evidenced by ensuing discussions. We are not trying to justify Duncan’s actions. We only feel
that The Davidsonian has been responsible to the Administration. We have tried to fulfill our obligation. The Administration, however, has
not been fulfilling theirs. They did not treat us fairly by implying we could have a copy of the Code
and then delaying the release of such important information to the community. It comes down to a question of trust
and of a willingness to suffer in order to preserve some essential human rights. All members of the community must
recognize their commitment and responsibility for guaranteeing those basic freedoms.

I have enjoyed the time I have spent with The Davidsonian and value the people I have worked with. I
would like to thank the staff for their dedication and commitment. They made the difficult task of assuming the editorship
in the middle of the term much easier.Feel as though I am leaving my family—people who have shared the excitement
of uncovering stories, the determination to get honest answers, and the frustrations of trying to make Davidson what it should
be. Don’t lose the hope that you can change things; don’t compromise those dreams and ideals; don’t stop being critical
because it is easier to sit back and be complacent—otherwise things will never change and dreams will never be realized.
—Pam Camerra

Letters to the Editor

Commitment posits academic freedom

To the Editor:

There has been much heat lately raised about Davidson’s policy on Christian tenure, the Christian qualifications in the Stuart Scholarships,
etc. I should now like to throw my opinions into the blaze, not in the hope of intensifying it, but
rather in the hope of bringing some rationality to the debate. If one would take the time to analyze the
problem carefully, one would see that the arguments raised over the policy on Christian tenure and the Stuart Scholarships are
unresolvable in themselves. This is true because they deal with the effects of the “problem” rather than the “problem” itself.
Thus the Christian controversy can never be settled until Davidson’s Christian commitment in the Statement of Purpose is justified. Such
a justification would provide the foundation for justifying some form of Christian tenure (I am not arguing pro or con
about the present policy of Christian tenure, but rather about Davidson’s principle of Christian commitment itself), the Stuart Scholarship Christian
clause, etc.

Well, what does it take to justify such a commitment? The opponents of this doctrine say that justification cannot be
had. They usually argue that following a policy of Christian commitment takes away freedom of knowledge. Yet, these persons have
missed the boat entirely. Davidson’s Christian commitment has just the opposite effect; it helps to make academic freedom possible. To
see this, one must step above Davidson and look at the set of colleges and universities as a whole. Academic
freedom comes from the diversity of colleges and the principles, or lack of principles, upon which they are founded and
the freedom that one has in choosing the institution which best suits his needs. To dismantle Davidson's Christian commitment would
destroy the Davidson we know and love. Such an act would remove a unique member from the set of colleges
and universities, decreasing academic freedom as a whole. This is the crucial point that one must realize. In fact, Socrates
settled the principle behind this question long ago. Living in a country means that one agrees to abide by the
laws of that country. How much more so is this true in college since one can choose the college with
the set of principles under which he wants to live!

Harold Lloyd ’81
Davidson College

Irated women hound Bernard & Hogman

To the Editor:

We would like to express our sense of outrage at the Bad Bernard and Hogman so-called “women’s sports study” of
May 5, 1978. The “cutsie” remarks and suggestions—eyeshadow and lipstick for the first 10 girls on the field—are offensive in
the extreme. All year we have repressed our anger that the column has dealt almost exclusively with male sports, but
now to come out with this insulting article... (Sorry BB&H, perhaps we're not your definition of classy, but we don’t
equate passivity with high class.) We enjoy IMAC sports but feel that the women definitely have been treated as if
we were unimportant. (Try getting a referee for a women’s game—we hope you have better luck than we did.) We
feel that not only women but men should be outraged at the view of women expressed in this article. Also,
the mention of Betty Friedan's name was in excessively poor taste. All in all, we don't believe you actually wrote,
and The Davidsonian printed, that trash. What a waste of space.

Elizabeth Ross '80
Ashley Neill '80
Audrey Little '80
Christine Allen ’80
Sara Stoneburner '80
Davidson College

AMANDA HALL, Circulation Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ, Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II, Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT, JIM ENTWISTLE, HARRY GREYARD, DAVE NASH, News Editor
DENNIS MCLAWHORN, Features Editors
ESTHER BRUCE, BARRY SACHTJEN, BILL PEEPLES, Sports Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH, Editorial Page Editor
ANN GARNER, Focus Editor
MARSHALL WADDELL, Managing Editor
MARGARET MILES, Inside Art Editor
DAVID LITAKER, Photography Editors
GREGG STRADER, Production Manager

Department assistants: News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus—Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson; Circulation—Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by The Davidsonian. The newspaper's office is on
the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate:
$6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Special Assignments Editor
ANN SHEAFFER, Advertising Manager
ADAIR GREEN
