February 10, 1978; The Davrusonian Sphere + IMAC Report

Rose blasts Coliseum’s color scheme

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

Bernie and H-Man feel that it is our responsibility to comment on one of the most controversial topics to hit the Charlotte area in years: Lee Rose and the Charlotte Coliseum’s insensitivity to his job. Y’all know the story by now. Lovable Lee is hacked off because the Coliseum didn’t put up some banners and forgot to paint the floor a lovely Forty-niner green.

It seems that through all of this debate, someone forgot to consult the opinion of another Coliseum-based team. With that in mind, Bernie and Hogman set out to solicit John Kochan’s opinion on the way the Coliseum has treated the Wildcats since he took office. We never found John but were directed to the closest thing to a Davidson head coach—game projectionist Phil Blue.

Said Phil, “You know, Bernie, we're all pretty upset at the Coliseum officials, too. I’ve asked them personally on a number of occasions to put up those five banners which say Fifth Place Southern Conference Finish 1974-77. Those are the sort of things that can really get a crowd going during a game. And sure, we asked them to paint the border around the floor red and black but the only thing they wanted to paint over was our cheerleaders.”

Maybe life isn’t as bad as you think it is, Lee.

Bernie and Hogman would also like to enlighten many of the confused freshmen as to the operation of that Winter phenomenon known as self-selection. The Council on Campus and Religious Life implemented a policy change which should make the whole process a simple affair.

On February 16th, all freshmen will report to Johnston Gym and line up in single file. The last forty to report to the gym will be shot to help eliminate the problem of overcrowding on Patterson Court. The rest will fill out sheets indicating each individual's house preference. Will Terry will then collect the sheets, grade them, and return them to each freshman to recopy and turn in before fall term senior year.

The freshmen will then be questioned as to how many dates they have had since they got to Davidson. The ones that have been out the most can immediately self-select a fraternity. Those who have done minimal dating may select an eating house. Those who do not date can eat in their rooms next year. This system eliminates a lot of the complications which were involved in the Love Auditorium set-up and allows the fraternities to get the kind of people they want without the problems of oral encouragements. (A special BB&H commendation to the committee for their good work.)

The IMAC B-ball regular season is grinding to a close with most of the games played in either the B- or Women’s League this past week. In B League games of note:

Wrestlers

By JEFF HARRIS
Staff Writer

Charlie Parker's varsity wrestlers, in losing to Pfeiffer, continued their pattern of close losses. Glen Ballard and Pat Dulaney, as expected, have continued to wrestle well for the Cats. As the season has progressed, Scott Phillips and Rob King have also emerged as consistent point contributors.

Against Pfeiffer, Davidson started slowly with a forfeit in the 118 lbs. class and a loss by Rich Reich in the 126 lbs. class. Pat McKinsey at 134 lbs., lost a decision to the Pfeiffer captain. McKinsey made some mistakes one expects of a varsity wrestler in his first year of collegiate competition; however, Ballard, the team’s captain, feels the freshman is the best pure wrestler on the team. Ballard in the 141 lbs. class defeated his opponent by a score of 10-6, while Dulaney won the 150 lbs. class by a 12-4 margin. Wrestling his best match of the season, Anthony Sanfilippo controlled his opponent to win the 167 lbs. class by a score of 7-2 and Scott Phillips won the 177 lbs. class by forfeit.Zurbruegg scored 22 as 1st Watts stunned the Squatty Bodies, 48-38. Past the Peak got 11 from Harry “Has Anybody Seen My Car” Griffith and edged Twatts 29-25. Bone kicked Nads B 32-17 behind the 18 points of Perz. The Lubricating Loobies held off a furious charge by Seek.

In the 190 lbs. class, Mike Garfinkle was outweighed by ten pounds and lost a tough match after leading 2-0 in the second period. With this defeat, Davidson lost any chance of winning the match. Heavyweight class representative, Rob King, won by forfeit to end the match. After the match, Ballard remarked, “the Pfeiffer team matched up against us very well, and they got the breaks needed to win the match. All I can say is that the wrestling team is actually much better than the record to date would indicate. Hopefully we can prove what we have in the remaining few matches,” he concluded.

The Cats close out the season with matches against Washington and Lee, Hampton-Sydney, Furman, and VMI.

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons. One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don’t preach. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you a sermon is one of them. Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte, 951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, NC 28202. CALL US AT 377-0841.

Earnie “Big E” Church and John Willingham’s 11 points helped beat Embo B 42-3. Kenny Bell kept the ball away from Mike Barnhill long enough to score 24 and lead the Cush Hounds past The House 66-41. Jimmy and the Dunkettes squashed Max Relax behind Matt Couch’s 20 points, 64-22. The Ragmen geared up for the post-season tourney by crushing IFOB 57-41 behind Wade's 19 points.

In the Women’s League: Twice as Nice set a girls’ league record for most points ever scored in a game as they annihilated Wedding Party 40-11. Brown, Inabnet, and McCarn all had eight for the winners. BOPS sent Heinz 57 reeling to their 32nd consecutive road defeat 27-10 behind Kirby Owen’s 10 points. The Sugar Bears took advantage of Debbie Carlton’s 12 points to trip up M&M's 26-10 in a rivalry that dates back to flickerball season. Jean Giarrusso poured in 6 as Hiyaki nipped Ruskeller 18-15 in a barn-burner. Lisa “I Can Sing Like Dolly Parton” Johnson played a minute and a half for the losers.

The Tourney is scheduled to start this Sunday and will be a double elimination affair for the last eight teams in A League and the last four teams in B League. Going into the Tourney our Top Ten consists of:
1. Mothership Connection
2. SAE
3. Hurtin’ for Certain
4. Tex’s KA’s
5. Home Grown Hand Sown
6. McFunk and Doctor Deal
7. Tokens
8. Off Again
9. Road Runners
10. Davidson (it’s about time we made somebody’s top ten)

Palmer Muench’s decision as to whether baseball players can play basketball will have a bearing on the tourney outcome, particularly with our top three teams.

Welcome to the big leagues.