September 8, 1978

The Committee for South Asian Studies and the Office of Academic Affairs is exploring several new curricular possibilities as well
as searching for a new director.

“This term, in conjunction with UNCC, Dr. Prem Lata Sharma from India will conduct a course in Indian music at
Davidson College,” stated Vice President for Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann. “The courses in South Asian Studies will essentially
remain as an introduction to the culture and civilization of the area. Of course, any particular change of emphasis will
depend on the new director.”

In addition, overtures have been made toward establishing a term abroad in India at the University of Madras. A report
on the viability of this is expected soon from Dan White, Professor of Religious Studies at UNCC.

Zimmermann stressed this is an “exploratory venture with a great many diplomatic and academic hurdles.”

“After diplomatic channels are cleared and a program approved by the U.S. Director of Education in India,” Zimmermann explained, “the
faculty will review the rigor of courses there.”

A Matter of Ear

Asian musician will teach more than appreciation—

Both Zimmermann and College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., seemed optimistic. According to Spencer, a similar program was attempted in
1971, but was aborted by the Bangladesh War. Professor of Religion David Kaylor, who has just returned to Davidson from
a year in India, is investigating possible new program directors. He said the new director could be in any discipline
as long as he shows competence as a director and has had a strong background in Asian Studies.

Kaylor feels, “Most of us growing up in our region have little exposure to other cultures. We see things with
limited focus.”

Further, “at Davidson, it is particularly important because the Western tradition is heavily emphasized here.”

She’ll teach the organization of melody and rhythm

By CAROL LOPTSON
Asst. Focus Editor

The Davidson College Music Department is offering an introductory course in Indian music this term.

Indian Music, Music 123, will be taught by scholar Dr. Prem Lata Sharma on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 2:00 p.m.
until 4:00 p.m. She is Chairman of the Department of Musicology, Research Section, of the Faculty of Music and Fine
Arts at Banaras Hindu University.

Tonia Devon, former Director of South Asian Studies here at Davidson, and Dan White, Professor of Religious Studies at UNCC,
were responsible for arranging the Fulbright grant and bringing Sharma to Davidson. Sharma will also teach two courses at UNCC.
Devon and White hoped to enable students to experience a non-Western view of music.

In a letter to White, Sharma wrote, “The course will be a survey of main concepts. It will be introductory
in the sense that I will be teaching perceptive listening of Indian music.

“It will not be what I call a music appreciation course. I want students to learn to hear what is
happening. The course will prepare them for perceptive listening.”

According to Sharma, the course will focus on the organization of melody and the organization of rhythm while exploring main
forms and current forms in the context of their historical development.

Still, the details of the course would be worked out with the students in the class.

As of Thursday morning, only three students were registered for the course, according to Registrar Richard Burts.

However, Chairman of the Music Department Donald Plott confirmed that the course will be taught regardless of enrollment. Plott said
he expects a final enrollment of about ten students.

Students discuss crowding.

“enough space to get by,” he

(Continued from page 1)
“sort of skeptical” at first, but added, “It made me feel better about the situation. I think Davidson is handling
it well.”

One of the inconveniences was a shortage of electrical sockets, a complaint which was prevalent throughout the triple-room dwellers. Don
Rose cited another drawback, “It’s harder to get along with two roommates than one roommate, because there are more personality
conflicts.” He also stated, “No decision will be made until we find out how this works.”

Welcome Back Wildcats!

$12.99 Levi Jeans
$12-18 Knit Shirts
