Volume IV, Number FOUR

Two questions Broadcasting bedfellows deaf to each other’s needs

By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

CHARLOTTE—The Davidson Communications Department, under instructions from College President Samuel Spencer, will soon begin a market survey here. Their goal is to find answers to two questions: Is there a demand for classical music in this city? If such a demand exists, must WDAV spend more than half its broadcast time playing classical music to satisfy it?

One school which has already answered both these questions to its satisfaction is the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. Beginning next April, according to Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs Doug Orr, UNCC’s WFAE hopes to be mostly broadcasting classical music at 100,000 watts—more than five times the power of Davidson's 18,500-watt WDAV.

“We do plan to go primarily classical,” said Orr. “Our plan is for the majority of programming to be classical... what percentage we'll just have to wait and see.” Like Davidson, UNCC thinks of its station as a fund-raising attraction. “Let’s face it, as you engage in fund-raising efforts you've got to sell yourself and your programs,” Orr observed. “Your upper-income people will tune in to public service radio more than other stations.”

Like Davidson, UNCC plans to play some jazz and folk music in addition to classical. “We have a jazz program right now; we like to continue that. We certainly would be interested in good bluegrass and folk,” said Orr. Like Davidson, UNCC plans to broadcast some educational and public affairs programming. Orr said UNCC expects to soon become affiliated with National Public Radio, a network reputed to offer many good issue-oriented shows. He added that WFAE also hopes to do some local educational programs themselves.

Like Davidson, UNCC is dead set against having its students play any rock music on the air. “Right now there are no plans for any rock,” declared Orr. In fact, WFAE and WDAV bear so many similarities that it has been publicly suggested that their two sponsoring institutions should get together and decide how to avoid a conflict. When asked if he had any plans to do this, Davidson's...

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

Student Body President Bruce Brown said Wednesday he believes the 1977 Trustee directive calling for WDAV to become a classical music station is “unconstitutional.” Brown said the College Constitution clearly considers WDAV a student organization. “In this respect, the resolution is unconstitutional, because WDAV was not given their rights as set forth in Article XII.” Brown continued, “What bothers me the most is that decisions were made without respect to the WDAV Board of Directors, the student Media Board, or the Constitution.”

The SGA Senate unanimously resolved Tuesday to send a petition to the Trustees regarding WDAV. According to Brown, the petition will make the following recommendations to the Trustees:

“...that they review the WDAV programming.
“...that they review the programming requirements set for November 15 in light of a survey of the Charlotte area radio audience.
“...that programming authority be returned to the WDAV Board of Directors as set in the 1969 WDAV Constitution.
“...that programming be designed to satisfy the needs of the total listening community, rather than only that portion of the community that will be giving money.
“...that they affirm WDAV as a student organization, a student radio station, serving the listening area, while representing the College as an institution dedicated to cultural enrichment and diversification.”

The Senate appointed a special committee to draw up the final draft, scheduled for completion by this weekend.2) STUDENT BODY President Bruce Brown says that the Trustee directive concerning WDAV is “unconstitutional.”

By GEOFF SPENCER, Staff Writer

This year the tuition activities tax is $5 higher than ever before, according to the Comptroller’s Office, bringing to $45 the total amount every student pays into the fund annually. But already there is talk of raising that amount again this November.

When this year’s activities tax revenue was distributed last April by the joint student-faculty Activities Tax Council, there just was not enough money to go around to all the student organizations clamoring for it. The astounding $69,952 asked for by students created an $11,000 gap. In trying to bridge this gap, the council was not only forced to slash some organizations' budgets to the bare bones but decided to deny one group any money at all.

Five months later, Christian Fellowship is still struggling for funds. Despite a $240 grant from the Union Board, their budget is still short. DCF President Mike Lins said the group is planning to cut operating expenses, and if that fails, they may be forced to solicit help from local churches.

By DON CALDWELL, News Editor

The Constitutional Review Committee (CRC) Wednesday unanimously rejected a proposal by President Samuel Spencer to amend the 1976 Constitution by splitting the Council on Campus and Religious Life. According to Spencer, the change would allow the councils to parallel those of the Trustees and would thus promote cooperation among faculty, students, and trustees.

Martha Sanford’s request to end sexual quotas in admissions policy was also addressed. Sanford stated, “I believe that the higher quota for males discriminates against equally qualified female applicants and has no sound logical or rational basis.” She added, “I’m optimistic. We were successful in that we made students think about the issue. I also hope that the Trustees will begin considering it. It’s only a beginning, though hopefully the National Organization of Women Chapter organized now can carry this on.”

Sanford also presented a petition bearing 340 student signatures in support of the proposal. The CRC then approved a number of cosmetic changes in the document as well as a switch of the Constitution.

Dean of Students Will Terry and Senior Business Manager Robert Glen Darbyshire pointed out that in its present form, the advisory council had been the most effective of the advisory councils. CRC member and Student Body President Bruce Brown commented, “The committee agreed that it would be a philosophical mistake to split the council into activity and religious activity.”

Sanford later commented, “I believe we were successful in that we made students think about the issue. I also hope that the Trustees will begin considering it. It’s only a beginning, though hopefully the National Organization of Women Chapter organized now can carry this on.”