The Davidsonian, September 29, 1978

They hope the plan will push Animal House over the top. Universal and National Lampoon are throwing a dozen toga
parties in the first week of October on campuses including the University of Maryland at University Park, the University of
Wisconsin at Madison, the University of Colorado at Boulder, the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana, and the University of California
at Los Angeles. Evidently, the invitation list is open. "It’ll be free to students," said Dannell Torppe, a publicity spokesman.
"You’ll just have to wear a toga."

Although college audiences thus far figure prominently in Animal House’s demographics, Universal apparently feels the $50,000 plus toga promotion is
needed. Torppe is confident it’ll work. "It’s a good way to make people aware of the movie and to make
people physically involved," he says. "This is a trend-setting thing."

So far, no one has replied to the September 15 request for beer preferences. Have Davidson students turned to the
punch (grain alcohol and Hawaiian Punch) typical of Animal House’s toga party craze?

Professors’ kids enjoy DC
by LIZ BRIGHT
Staff Writer

To seven members of the student body, the question "Why did you decide to go to Davidson?" is probably asked
twice as often as is normal. These students -- Vance Polley, John Ratliff, John and Cindy Stroud, Locke White, Helen
White, and Kathy Wolf -- are, as you can tell by their last names, sons and daughters of professors at
Davidson. The fact that they would remain in the same town and would be at school with their fathers didn’t
stop them from recognizing Davidson’s academic standing and fine reputation. In one student’s opinion, "Davidson is probably the best choice
for the type of education you get here."

While most of them considered other schools, Davidson was top on the list academically and financially. (Except for room and
board, their tuition is free.) John Stroud feels that he "was biased by growing up around here" but that he
owed it to himself to look around. Receiving no pressure from parents, each student was free to make up his
or her own mind about choosing a college.

With the exception of Vance Polley, who is currently auditing Dr. Polley’s "Introduction to the Old Testament," none of these
students have ever had a course from their fathers. They all seem to agree that having their fathers as professors
would be awkward. John Ratliff commented that being in his father’s economics class may "cramp his style," as Dr. Ratliff
occasionally relates personal anecdotes to the class.

While walking through the halls of Chambers, one cannot help but hear numerous criticisms (and occasionally compliments) about the professors.
While aware that their fathers are labeled with descriptive nicknames like "Max the Ax" Polley, most of the faculty kids
have never heard any truly derogatory remarks about their fathers as professors. Locke White is frequently informed by scholarship recipients
that they "need more money from his ol’ man;" other faculty kids occasionally receive comments from friends about "getting burned"
by their fathers.

All of the faculty kids live in either a dorm or an off-campus house except Vance Polley, who would prefer
to...use his money for travel. The freedom of dorm life gives them the feeling of going away to school, even
though they are still in the same town. Most prefer to immerse themselves as much as possible in the Davidson
College community rather than go home every day.

SQUAD MEMBER Rene Hedgepeth uses the skills she learned at camp and leads cheers for the Wildcats. (Kenny Connors)

...Practice pays off (Continued from page 6)

The Squad obtained new uniforms, went to camp at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville, and got the green light
on transportation to out-of-town football games. Camp was both an educational and enjoyable experience. Says Rene Hedgepeth, new to the
squad, “the guys partied every night and called us party poopers because we wouldn't join them. We were too tired
and sore from the day’s work.” Oldtimers agree that camp brought the squad closer together than ever before as a
functioning unit. Back at Davidson, the group practices twice a week for several hours. Their work shows. Speaking with conviction,
Crosby said, “We're the best squad Davidson has ever seen. We are practicing more than ever before. We use new
cheers from the National Association of Cheerleaders. We are doing pyramids never conceived of.”

While keg contests at the football games result in increased crowd support, the squad has stopped the contest. People cheer
for the kegs, not the team, they complain. The guy in the Wildcat costume who asked not to be identified,
said that crowd support is not equal to that of last year. The cheerleaders have some surprises up their sleeve
that are worth seeing.

Brown remains jock
by BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Editor's Note—This is the first in a series featuring Davidson lettermen who, as alumni, have continued their athletic pursuits after
graduation.

For the last four years, Davidson baseball fans marveled at the tall center fielder with the strong arm that sent
fly balls sailing all the way from the field’s perimeter to home plate. With such an impressive arm and a
1978 batting average of .341, one would expect to find Stan Brown playing professional ball. With equally impressive LSAT scores,
he should also be in law school.

I recall a waning Patterson when Stan announced his intentions to fulfill both dreams. Like law at Vanderbilt University. He
did not enter Vanderbilt, however, until playing this past season for the Charleston Pirates, Pittsburgh’s minor league team.

Though Brown's quick temper and aggressive personality resulted in perhaps deserved criticism, one must admire this ambitious former work-study student
from Nashville. Lettering in football, basketball, and baseball in high school, Brown entered Davidson with the intention of continuing in
all three sports. He did until his sophomore year, when he elected to concentrate on baseball and a major in
economics. By graduation, he was not only an outstanding baseball player but a member of the

At present, Stan plans to continue his law studies until baseball season starts anew. If he doesn't make the major
leagues, judging by his past record for super-achievement, Stan will surely make the major leagues. He may even practice law
in the off-season.
