RUIN? O” euch PS anette ces i The Davidsonian TN November 3, 1978

Grapplers find new head coach

By MIKE BRITT
Asst. Sports Editor

The Davidson wrestling program has finally gained a new coach. Professor of Math Lunsford King '59 was named last week to fill the vacancy left open when former coach Charlie Parker fell ill. King, by his own admission, is not an expert in the field (his last association with wrestling at Davidson was as a member of the Wildcat squad during his undergraduate days), but he brings to the program an enthusiasm for the sport and a willingness to work hard as his only credentials. Delegating a great deal of authority to the experienced wrestlers already on the squad, King stated that his role as coach would not entail the installation of any new system.

Rather, he will supervise the seniors as they, to a great extent, lead the team on the mats. The practice format now in use was designed by team Captain Pete Johnson; in fact, the two weeks prior to his taking over the coaching position, the team held practices completely on their own.

Ceasing Publication

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for Fall Term, 1978. Publication will resume December 1. Good luck on your exams and have a happy Thanksgiving Break.

Booters drop two

By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

While parents and students were having a leisurely weekend here on campus, the Davidson soccer team was having a not-so-easy time in Atlanta. The Wildcats traveled south to play Georgia State and Emory. They lost both games, 3-1 and 3-2 respectively. The team, now 5-8-1, has lost its chance for a .500 season since only two games remain (UVa. here on Saturday, UNC-Chapel Hill, there the following Saturday).

According to coach Karl Kremser, the team simply was not ready to play on Saturday against Georgia State. “The guys played well for a few minutes but then they seemed to fall asleep. They weren't mentally prepared.” A team member explains it this way, “We had two five-hour drives, there and back. When we weren't playing we were studying. I'm beat.”

Sunday against Emory, the team played well, but despite a two-goal performance by Pete Sluiter, they were unable to come up with the win. “Emory has a lot of talented individuals -- more than we do,” said Kremser. “But the kids played well as a team. We could have won.”

The final two games promise to be tough, but Kremser is optimistic. “The guys always get up for the tough ones, we'll be ready.”

Clubbers roll to win

By DAVE PIPER
Staff Writer

The Davidson Club Football team has continued its winning tradition with two victories in its last two outings. Two weeks ago, the Cats traveled down to Clemson and pulled out a 15-14 victory with a last-second.Touchdown. After falling behind in the first quarter, the defense tied the score at eight-all when defensive tackle Bobby Howard recovered a fumble in the Clemson end zone. The Tigers scored soon after the half and the Cats were down on their first possession. Davidson gained the lead with a spectacular 90-yard pass and run combination from Rosenberg to Ken Pollock. Aided by a successful conversion of a fake punt and a controversial pass interference call, the Baptists tied the score before the half. The Cat offense moved the ball well but was plagued by three turnovers. In the second half, however, the Cats held on to the ball long enough to put together a sustained scoring drive that culminated in a halfback pass from Pollack for six points. Going into the final two minutes, quarterback Joby Martin scored on a ten-yard keeper as time was running out. He sealed the victory with a pass to Rob Hull for the two-point conversion.

Last week, the team played at home against Atlanta Baptist University. After the defense forced the Bengals to punt, workhorse Russ Folger had six carries for fifty-one yards in that scoring drive. The team’s record is now 4-1 with two home games remaining. Next week they play Western Carolina, and then finish the regular season against Duke. A victory in either game will put the team in the post-Thanksgiving playoff.

...leftist coalition organizes (Continued from page 1)

to actually organize for its needs and goals. However, he acknowledged that the breadth of organizations represented at Fraser’s conference was far greater than previous efforts to form a progressive Democratic coalition, and therefore there was more potential to get some real commitments for change. The coalition’s first target is likely to be the Democratic Party’s Mid-term Convention in December where policy and platform will be debated. According to Fraser, the new alliance will demand that the President and Democratic members of Congress keep party platform commitments, support a move to abolish the Congressional filibuster, and set up a party reform task force to create “a stronger, more accountable, more ideological party.”

Fraser admits the impetus for the coalition was the success of right-wing organizers at capturing media attention and shaping the public’s debate on political issues. “Corporate reactionaries and their ideologies for the first time in years have taken the momentum from progressives in the arena of ideas,” said Fraser. “Power remains with America’s elite and not with its people,” Fraser charged. “Time and again in recent months we have seen that power exercised against workers, the poor, minorities and women, young and old, and even the middle class in our country. America today functions by a set of rules virtually guaranteed to result in a now too familiar outcome—the haves take more, and have nots get less. Those rules must change and we must develop a strategy to change them.”

...nominees picked (Continued from page 1)

A history major, his interest in small farmers stems from his experiences growing up and working on a farm and from talking with British farmers while on the St. Anne’s Program. “I want to look at the small farmer—what he wants legislatively, how he's organized politically, and how successful he is politically.” This is only the first stage of the narrowing selection process. The nominees must submit detailed descriptions of their proposals and face even more interviews, this time with the delegates of the program itself. Barnard noted, “I understand my interviewer is a Rhodes Scholar and a law partner of Leon Jaworski. It should be fun.”

Davidson was awarded two fellowships last year. John Craig is presently splitting his time among several Northern European cities to study racial problems there. Jeff Metzell is researching the transportation network of several nations in Southeast Asia.