May 12, 1978 The Davidsonian

SENIOR CHIP Bondurant has just completed a superb 26-3 season, as well as claiming All-Conference honors in both singles and doubles. He now looks forward to the possibility of competing in the NCAA tournament. (Bill Billings)

Gridders honored
By EMIL PARKER
Sports Information Director

Linebacker Jarry Taylor received Davidson's top football honor—the Fuller Memorial Award—at a dinner held in the 1977 team’s honor Tuesday night. The award, named for former Davidson standout Jim Fuller, is presented annually to the Wildcat player who best combines effort, dedication, and excellence.

Taylor, a senior from Tuscaloosa, Ala., often had his football career at Davidson interrupted by a series of injuries. However, he always made non-playing contributions and, when he was healthy, performed well for the Wildcats. He also starred in track for Davidson and recently set a school record in the hammer. Taylor won all-Southern Conference honors in track with a third-place finish in the hammer. He is a Sociology major with a 3.3 grade point average.

Senior offensive guard Chip Howell of Gastonia claimed the King Academic Award, presented to the senior football player with the highest grade point average. Howell, a pre-med major, carries a 3.48 GPA.

Fullback Page Walley, who will be a senior next fall, won the C.T. Stowe Scholarship, which goes to the returning player with the highest academic average. Walley, from LaGrange, Tenn., has a 3.375 grade point average. In addition, he is a strong challenger to break two of Davidson's long-standing football rushing records. He came within two yards of setting the single-season record for rushing last year when he gained 759 yards. Walley had 1155 career yards in two seasons and is almost certain to top the 1378 set by Kerry Keith from 1966 through 1968.

Also, 1977 captains—linebacker Cliff Hester, defensive tackle Frank Fields, and Howell—received awards for their leadership roles with last year's team.

Bondurant NCAA’s ahead? / Bondy ends brilliant career
By LISA JOHNSON and JAY GEPFERT
Staff Writers

It is time to pay tribute to one of Davidson's finest and most intense athletes, Chip Bondurant. In his four years at Davidson, one spent in Montpellier, he has excelled in numerous athletic activities, but he is most well known for his outstanding performance on the Davidson tennis team. Bondurant has helped guide the team to at least three winning seasons and has himself compiled an impressive winning record.

Bondurant came to Davidson from Winter Park High School in Florida where he played tennis and basketball. His freshman year he played number two for the Cats and finished with a 10-10 season. The following year as a sophomore, Chip occupied the top notch on the team and terminated his 1976 season at number one with a record of 13-14.

Bondurant decided to participate in the Junior Year Abroad Program in Montpellier, France the next year, so the team lost “Cheep” to the French tennis courts. He won several tournaments while in Europe and returned to Davidson ready to go again.

The spring of 1978 epitomizes the outstanding tennis record of Bondurant at Davidson. Playing the number two position for the Cats, he was an extremely consistent winner and never lost a conference match. During the season he dropped a mere three matches and they were to UNC-CH,N C State, and USC. His intensity continued into the tournament, Southern Conference held at Furman, and again Bondurant emerged a victor, in singles as well as doubles. In the singles competition, he defeated Babb of ASU, 7-6, 3-6, 7-5 in the finals. What more can be said about a guy who is down three triple match points and hits three super passing shots, including a famous backhand, and returns home with two Southern Conference trophies? Bondurant would not be satisfied if part of his credit was not given to Jay Gepfert, his doubles partner and fondly referred to as “Mooselle” by Chip. Together they developed into a dynamite doubles team, playing number one for Davidson, and compiling a 14-6 record for the season. Gepfert and Bondurant won the Southern Conference by downing Booth and McWaters of the Citadel, 7-5, 6-2 in the finals on Saturday. 

Coach Jeff Frank, in commenting on Bondurant, said that he never had a bad match and consistency was the name of his game. Bondurant is so mentally tough, as well as talented, that Frank said he would even bet his Jaguar on almost anybody Bondurant played. Bondurant is known also for his sportsmanship and Coach Scarpa of Furman recognized Babb and Bondurant as the outstanding gentlemen and sportsmen of the 1978 tournament. Along with tennis, Bondurant has participated in various IMAC sports at Davidson. He played flickerball for the Bongs, basketball for the SAE’s, and even managed to squeeze in a few volleyball and softball games this spring. He also is a member of the marching ROTC crew, a French major, and a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, the source of his incessant social activity. He can generally be found on the west end of Davidson, near the tennis courts or on the first floor of the library, signing autographs for friends. 

The immediate future for Bondurant points towards the army, so look out tank drivers and clear the courts, because Bondy’s on the way. Bondurant received a well-deserved standing ovation on Monday night at dinner and we join the SAE’s in praising him for his fine performance at Davidson.

---

Parks Rexall Drugs
PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don’t preach. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for prenatal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you a sermon is one of them.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte,
CALL US AT 377-0841.
951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.

---

Open Kitchen
PIZZA • CHICKEN CACCIATORE • STEAKS • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI • VEAL SCALLOPINE • VEAL PARMIGIANA
315-1449