April 14, 1978

MRS. MALCOLM Lester and friends compare crafts, hobbies at the Depot.

Fine films offer change

By SID BARRETT
Guest Writer

Are you looking for a constructive escape from the routine? Is watching “Three’s Company” not broadening your horizons? Maybe you should take a good look at Davidson's Fine Film program. The four remaining shows are well worth taking an hour or two out of your Wednesday night schedule.

April 19: Producer David O’Selznick combines the original sets and the star of his earlier “King Kong” in “The Most Dangerous Game,” with Fay Wray and Joel McCrea.

April 26: Burton and Taylor battle it out in Franco Zeffirelli’s production of Shakespeare’s “Taming of the Shrew.”

May 3: The most bizarre Bond of all: David Niven as 007 in “Casino Royale,” costarring Ursula Andress, Peter Sellers, and Woody Allen. A must for anyone who has ever wanted to take apart the Bond image; who says Hitler doesn’t run the phone company?

Next year’s Fine Film Program will be chosen in the next two weeks. If you're interested in joining, you still have time to help. Duties include taking tickets at the door occasionally, and the benefits are free admission and the usual grad record blurb. Watch for the announcement for our next meeting.

Student wins photo award

By ANN SHEAFFER
Special Projects Editor

Junior Bill Billings has won first place as best student photographer of the year for news photos in the Southern Short Course Competition.

Billings was named Student Photographer of the Year in that competition. The contest is sanctioned by the North Carolina Press Photographers’ Association and considers entries from a 15-state region in the Southeast.

Billings received the award for a portfolio of news photographs taken during the past year while he has been working for the Charlotte Observer.

Billings won first place and two honorable mentions in last year’s N.C. Press Photographers Spot News Contest and in his freshman year received a second place award in the N.C. Press Association competition, again for spot news photography.

Billings began taking photographs when he was 15, and by age 17 he was working for the Salisbury Post. He kept that job until last summer, when he began his current job with the Observer.

After graduation, Billings hopes to work for a newspaper for a few years, then establish his own photography shop.

Billings is a Davidson junior.

Long-lived enjoy depot

By SALLIE SUMMEY
Staff Writer

Operating out of the depot, the recently formed Davidson Senior Services Club (DSS) has been providing services and recreation for the elderly in and around the Davidson community.

A committee formed by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church initiated the program, but the DSS, independent of the church, now functions under the leadership of Executive Director Brigid O’Conner.

Ninety-five senior citizens from the Davidson Community compose the club which meets bi-monthly.

“On a rollicking good day, we’ll have fifty members or more at a meeting,” O’Conner stated.

“We have had various programs, such as a jazz pianist from the college, slide shows, and a ‘Show and Tell’ where members displayed foreign and antique treasures that they had collected down through the years.”

According to O’Conner, the purpose of the DSS is to “help the elderly remain in their homes as long as possible, as opposed to institutions such as rest homes.”

The club hopes to achieve this by providing services such as sitters, transportation to nearby towns, house cleaning, and yard work.

“In the future we hope to deepen and strengthen our service, and use the building for more activities and more social events,” commented O’Conner.

“The college has been most helpful in letting us use the depot and also in their support, and we appreciate this.”

Mrs. C.F. Forbes, DSS member, remarked, “It gives me a chance to see and be with my friends. My husband used to work with the railroad company and he worked in that depot, but it sure doesn’t look like a depot now. You just can’t beat Davidson.”

Folklorist rescues Lloyd

By MARGARET JACKSON
Staff Writer

The nine-year-old Charles Lloyd was wandering in the woods with a friend when the darkness fell, and the two could not find their way home. Finally, Lloyd spotted a campfire and the boys made their way towards it, to find Richard Chase.

“The first time I ever saw him was in the dark. I guess he was seventeen or eighteen at the time,” recalls Lloyd. Chase eventually returned the boys to their homes, but first, Lloyd said, “We had to be calmed down.”

The skilled storyteller worked his magic on the frightened boys. Explained Lloyd, “He told us the story of the Iliad.”

This long-time devotee to storytelling and folklore visited Davidson this week as a guest of the Speakers Committee. He was invited on the suggestion of Professor of English Charles Lloyd.

According to Chase, himself, he has been “telling tales, singing, and shooting the bull” during his stay. He attended an open dinner and a dance on the Union patio.

Chase, who says folklore “is based on grassroots stuff,” enjoys English dancing and he plays the harmonica and woodpipe. He is also a nature worshipper and does a sword dance on the winter solstice to bring a better corn crop.

He points out that folklore is based on “tradition.” He believes different types of folk culture should be maintained because “we are not a melting pot.”

Chase has been on tour since February 15. He plans to settle in Western North Carolina or Kentucky and continue telling tales.

THIS PICTURE is one of many award-winning, on-the-spot photos by Bill Billings.