December 1, 1978
The Davidsonian

Letters To The Editor

‘Sell out’ too cheap?

To the Editor:

I have followed with interest the WDAV affair in recent issues of The Davidsonian. I feel that all your articles and letters have neglected to judge Dr. Spencer and the Trustees’ actions in the light of pure pragmatism. Consider for a moment... Surely the raising of funds through contributions is a legitimate activity for any college administration. The Administration was only using WDAV to further this purpose. The purpose was noble.

A more legitimate question for consideration in The Davidsonian is: Realizing that the Administration “sold out” WDAV for money... Did they sell too cheaply? As in the old story of the lady of easy virtue, we have already established the nature of the act in question. Now it is time to quibble over the price... Do you dare ask, just how much did the Administration get in gifts and pledges for the action?

Dewey Cheatam
Raleigh, NC

Safety poses problem for motorized bike

By STEVE AUSTIN
PIRG Columnist

That peculiar hybrid of motorcycle and bicycle, the motorized bicycle, is literally sweeping the country off its feet. Getting 100 to 200 miles to the gallon, the bike is undoubtedly one answer to the energy shortage. As a second “car,” the motorized bike can be used for around-town errands and commuting to work.

Motorized bicycles are not suitable for long-distance travel or foul weather trips. Passengers are strictly illegal. With a one to two horsepower, one-cylinder engine, they must run at full throttle to break twenty or thirty miles per hour.

In Europe after World War II, the motorized bicycle became popular very quickly. Inexpensive and energy-saving, the bikes today constitute a third of France’s motorized vehicles. Yet up until 1974, the motorized bicycles could not be sold in the United States because they could not achieve the standards required of the motorcycles with which they were classed. Four years ago, partially in response to the energy crisis, the bikes were put under a classification of their own. Since then, sales have rocketed; 150,000 were sold last year.

The typical motorized bicycle traffic, believing that they would thereby be safer. The most frequent cause of accidents, though, has been the vehicle’s inability to keep up with city traffic. States, such as North Carolina, with city speed limits of 20 mph make city driving in heavy traffic hazardous: other cars, irritated by a slow bike blocking the way, try to edge around the bike, creating a potentially fatal situation. Particularly with drivers weighing over 150 pounds, the vehicle is slow to accelerate at traffic lights. Hills of any sort strain the engine considerably; pedaling helps some, but sometimes the easiest solution is to get off and jog alongside. After a while, the driver may want to get off anyway and walk since most motorized bikes do not have adequate suspension systems. Potholes and cracks are not only nerve-racking but can also cause accidents.

To the Editor:

In a recent edition of The Davidsonian, there appeared an article entitled “Nestle Corporation Under Fire For Third World Marketing” written by Steve Austin. Unfortunately, the author never contacted Nestle for its position and the article contains an inaccurate portrayal of the Nestle policy on infant feeding in developing countries. As a manufacturer, Nestle recognizes its responsibility to educate mothers on the proper use of formula products and to encourage mothers to continue breastfeeding as long as possible, even when supplementation is necessary.Necessary. Nestle educational programs begin with the product labels themselves, which contain detailed written instructions on the use of the product together with step-by-step illustrations. Nestle medical representatives work closely with local government health authorities to develop educational programs on formula use, in addition to devising courses on general hygiene and breastfeeding. All of those interested in improving infant nutrition now have a unique opportunity to make a positive contribution. In a few months, the World Health Organization will convene a conference on infant nutrition, which will bring together governments (especially from the developing countries), health experts, industry members, and critics of the industry to study. It is time for all of us to move away from negative efforts and support positive contributions, like supporting the WHO Conference.

The Nestle Company,
Henry G. Cic
Assistant Secretary

Creativity Silenced
To the Editor:

It was with disbelief that I learned of the actions of the Davidson College Board of Trustees to silence the creative voices of Davidson students associated with radio station WDAV. Obviously, the Trustees bowed to economic pressures from Charlotte area broadcasters who were not slow to realize that the innovative programming of WDAV was attracting a substantial number of listeners away from their traditional presentation of commercialized pablum. And, as usual, the Trustees put the possibility of a "large contribution" from Jefferson Pilots or the St. Kaplans ahead of the benefits that a student-programmed radio station could provide to Davidson students as well as the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area as a whole.

Most radio stations are programmed by tired old men whose only objective is to fill the spaces between commercials as cheaply as possible. It is truly the short-sighted and shallow individual who sees neither the innovative and exciting contributions that students make to broadcasting nor the opportunity that participation in broadcasting provides. It is sad that the Davidson College Board of Trustees is composed primarily of such individuals.

James P. Richards III
Atlanta, Davidsonian, Editor

Freshman Honor Council (Hearing Committee)
Sophomore Honor Council (Hearing Committee)
Junior SGA ELECTIONS

For the following positions:

Unlike many states, New Jersey not only requires a driver’s license but also registration and insurance. “Moped-ed” is now available in many of the state's junior high schools. The bikes dump more hydrocarbons into the air than many cars. As with motorcycles, the Environmental Protection Agency has been more lenient on the bike emissions because they are so few in number. Traction is generally not good—one more reason why driving in rough weather is not recommended. Motorized bicycles are equipped with buzzers (not horns), and the noise produced is inadequate for defensive driving. The volume of the buzzer and the brilliance of the headlight are affected by how fast the motor is running since they are powered by a battery. Both horns and signal lights are recommended additions. New Jersey is taking the initiative in requiring more stringent safety measures for the bikes and their drivers. The bikes cost between $300 and $700. More information on different models can be obtained by writing the Moped Association of America (1001 Connecticut Ave. NW, Washington, D.C. 20036), a manufacturers’ group, or by consulting Consumer Reports (June 1978). Don’t be in any hurry to drive off though; manufacturers recommend breaking in a bike for 500 miles at no more than 15 mph.