= = BB&H release blue chip cage signees
By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

Bernie and Hogman have just obtained the latest word on the Davidson basketball recruiting situation, and would like to pass
it on to our readers before Richard Sink gets an opportunity to butcher the story in the Charlotte Inquirer. We
are sure that once you have had a chance to look these players over you will be just as excited
about next season as we are. Here’s the poop:

1) Abdi Udi Thompson--8'2”, 297 lbs.--Naironba, Botswana--tallest player ever signed to an NCAA scholarship--Abdi was found in the bush country
of South Africa grabbing coconuts out of trees--he will participate in our international studies program—Biedenbach says, “Abdi is the type
of player we can build our whole program around. He was a great find, but he must learn to wear
shoes and gym shorts instead of leaves.”

2) Dore Thomas Nojump--6’11”, 163 lbs.--Chicago, Illinois--Dore is one of the first players in years to transfer to Davidson--he comes
from the University of Missouri with impressive statistics of 1.3 ppg and .004 rebounds a game--can’t dunk but was a
78 percent layup shooter. Biedenbach notes that Dore is about seven years away from being a competitive college player but
with a weight training program he may just be six years away—“perfect man for the forward position.”

3) Franklin Roosevelt Washington--6’0”, 190 lbs.--Washington, D.C.--All-Metro, McDonald's All Star Game MVP, Parade All-American two years, MVP in orange/white game
at Howard Garfinkle Five Star Camp--led Eastern High School with 32.8 points a game, 18 rebounds, and six dunks. Signed
with DC over Notre Dame, Kentucky, UCLA, and Marquette--Biedenbach feels that Franklin is a good solid kid, and can help
the Cats in a reserve role behind Dore Nojump--Franklin was in the top 80 percent of his class at Eastern.

4) Nikeroko Hiyashaki--5’2”, 104 lbs.--Hiroshima, Japan--Nike played in Tokyo games and was named in the All Terrific Tokyo Team--Coach John
Rhyne saw Nike play in a summer league volleyball game and was impressed with his 54” vertical jump--can stuff two
volleyballs behind his head--1610 on the SAT and wants to be a Toyota mechanic.

5) Clyde “Scab” Jones--6’6”, 218 lbs.--Brooklyn, New York--Clyde was named to the All Ward C team last year--MVP in the
Attica Pen Tourney last summer--made a 78 on the SAT but had a good interview during his campus visit--distant cousin
of H.E. White--will live off campus with wife and 4 kids--Biedenbach feels Clyde brings a much-needed physical element to our
game.

6) Bob Smith--6'1”, 160 lbs.--Huntersville, N.C.--Bob was the last recruit signed--Biedenbach calls him a real find--the kid was a sleeper
as he made no honors and didn't even play on a high school team--started four years for the Bethel Presbyterian
Church Team--Hit two clutch free throws in the Holy Mary Christmas Tourney--Coach Tommy Abatemarco said, “Hey, this kid is a
player, he’s also white.”

A BB and H congratulations to Eddie for an outstanding recruiting season.

The IMAC softball season continues to speed merrily on its way. Our top ten saw a few changes from last
week:

BB&H TOP TEN
1-Presto’s Grille
2-Dartus Tunic and the Big 13
3-Mac Fleet and Stuff
4-Four Skins
5-SAE’s
6-Big T & the Oxytoxins
7-Lizard Kickers
8-We Funk
9-Up and Coming
10-Old Men

Honorable Mention: Bongs, What It Is, Bone, Whizz Kids

In softball action this week, the biggest story is the sudden emergenceof the SAB’s into our top ten. The E’s,
utilizing a balanced team of Khakis and Kiss, vaulted to our #5 spot as they thrashed Up and Coming 24-14.
Team captain Mike Sheridan was “pleased as punch” about the sudden recognition of the E team. In other games involving
top ten teams, Presto’s Grille hung on to the number one spot by thrashing the Ragmen 24-1. Dartus Tunic remained
in strong contention for the number one position as they nipped the Old Men 5-4 on George Flower’s seventh inning
sacrifice fly. Jack Davis continues to lead the Big 13 in swinging bunts with 21 so far. The Lizard Kickers
polished off Ernie Church and Spring Fever 16-4 but then fell victim (bless their hearts, huh Billy?) to Quick Insertion
23-16. Big T and the Oxytoxins utilized the tennis talents of Grady Barnhill to squeak by Pike’s Once, 6-3, 5-7,
6-4. Sandy “Dr. Reject” Tarleton continues to terrorize baserunners with his cannon arm as he gunned down three more this
week. Sandy could knock a fly off of third base with a pebble from center field. In other games of
unimportance, Bone took the War Kiwis 18-15 and the Bongs whipped the Cavanaugh Kids 13-1. All of the IMAC games
played so far would have been a lot more fun if the official showed up occasionally. Later.

Netters continue domination
By DAVID REICH
Staff Writer

Davidson's tennis team boosted its overall record to 19-3 with convincing victories over Citadel, VMI, and Washington & Lee. These
wins also upped the Cats’ conference record to 3-1 and set an optimistic tone for the approaching conference tournament. However,
Coach Jeff Frank and the Wildcat netters are not looking past matches with upcoming conference foes Appalachian and Furman. As
Frank stated, “Both of these teams have been successful this year and are just as anxious for a conference win
as we are.” Frank also emphasized that these matches are an important determinant of the seedings at the conference tournament.

Entering these last weeks of the season, several individual netters boast impressive records. At the tough number one singles spot,
Mike Barnhill has an 11-9 record. Chip Bondurant continues to win consistently at the number two singles position and boasts
an impressive 4-0 conference and 18-2 overall record. At the number three singles position, Harry Griffith holds a 17-4 record.
Jeff Lyle, at the number four spot, maintains a 12-5 overall record with only one conference loss. John Trout and
Brian Cooper at number five and six singles are both undefeated in conference play. Trout has an overall 13-5 record,
and Cooper holds an impressive 15-3 record. Alternating at the number six spot, Steve Holman has also gained several key
wins.

At the number one doubles spot, Bondurant and Jay Gepfert hold an 11-5 overall record. Barnhill and Gil Kayton have
only one conference loss at the number two doubles and boast a 15-3 overall record. Lyle and Rick Johnston continue
to play well at the number three position with only one conference loss and a 13-3 overall record. It is
evident that Frank’s pre-season optimism for this year’s team has proven valid. Of twenty-two matches, the Cats have lost only
three. Nevertheless, Frank emphasized that the team has not reached their peak. As he stated, “Each day we continue to
improve and grow more confident. As we approach the conference tournament, crowd support, confidence, and aggressive play are absolutely essential
to our success.”

Results
Baseball 11-15
Wake Forest 3, Davidson 1
Lynchburg 1, Davidson 0
James Madison 2, Davidson 0
James Madison 10, Davidson 7
Appalachian 9, Davidson 5
Appalachian 10, Davidson 8
Davidson 19, Catawba 4

Men’s Tennis 19-3
Davidson 9, VMI 0
Davidson 8, W&L 1
Davidson 9, J.C. Smith 0

Women’s Tennis 7-5
Davidson 6, ECU 3
Davidson 9, UNCC 0

Track 4-1
10th place in Davidson Relays

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE
