September 22, 1978

Take out orders

Mon.-Wed. 11-3, 5-8
Thurs.-Sat. 11-3, 5-12
Sun. 12-3, 5-10

Happy Hours:
Thurs & Fri nights
8:30-10 PM

“Best food east of Tulsa”

892-8686

The Davidsonian | 13

Body of Zimmermann’s Draft

(Continued from page 5)

evidence not only of continued professional development, but of stimulus given to others, especially younger colleagues, by example and by
assistance rendered.

In reviewing senior members of the faculty, the President and the VPAA look for increased visibility in the life of
the college community, and for evidence gathered regarding the faculty member's continued growth and development as a teacher and scholar.
Such evidence will include the chairman’s recommendation, letters or interviews the VPAA may request with colleagues in the department or
faculty at large, information from student evaluations, the record of grants sought and obtained, participation in faculty research groups, etc.
Recommendations for tenure and/or promotion will normally be made to the Trustees at their spring meeting. In reaching his recommendations,
the President will weigh heavily the judgments of the VPAA.

INTERESTED IN LAW SCHOOL

Dean Frank T. Read of the University of Tulsa College of Law will be on campus September 25 to speak
with interested pre-law students. Tulsa is a fully accredited law school offering a quality program of legal education. For further
details, contact:

Ms. Suzie Summers
Office for Experimental Programs

The University of Tulsa has an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Program for students and employees.

BUILD YOUR OWN

BIG SCREEN COLOR TV

Sporting Events Are An Experience As Exciting As Being There!
Movies Are Seen The Way They Were Meant To Be Seen!
Pong And Other Video Games Are More Exciting Than Ever!
Can Be Used With Video Tape Playback Equipment!

Simulated TV Reception

It’s Like Having a “Movie Theater” in Your Home!
AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT now only $29.95

Imagine inviting friends to see TV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Size TV! It’s like viewing on a movie
screen! Everything takes on a whole new dimension... almost makes you feel like you’re in the action! Can also be
used outdoors, converting your back yard into an open-air Outdoor Theater! This new invention gives sharp, brilliant TV reception comparable
to commercial projector systems costing $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to use. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV. Removes
in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot pictures (7½ Ft.
diagonal) on wall or screen, even in the smallest rooms or apartments. Best of all, this amazing Projector is really
simple and inexpensive to build yourself. Even a 12-year-old can do it quickly. Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime
guaranteed Precision Lens System, 11” x 17” illustrated Plans and Specifications, and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. All you supply is only
some cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7” to
25", and will enlarge pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here’s an easy way to
make money in your spare time. Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives, etc. Everyone
with a Television Set will gladly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00
on each easy sale. Your cost, one kit - $29.95, two kits - $49.95, five kits - $99.95.

SALES MARKETING Dept. NP-7
P.O. Box 2646
Merced, California 95340

Enclosed is $____ for Postpaid complete TV PROJECTOR KITS

Name
Address
City/State
ZIP
(offer expires 9/1/78)
