The Davidsonian
October 27, 1978

Roberts welcomes student participation in new WDAV

(Continued from page 1)

Roberts stressed her desire to have students participate in WDAV, saying, “We hope to provide more opportunities than ever before
for students to work at the station and gain valuable experience by so doing. I am setting aside portions of
the broadcast day as student volunteer hours and as paid staff hours. Student hours would be identified as such on
the air.”

According to Director of Personnel and Administrative Services Robert Stephenson, Davidson students who work for WDAV will probably receive the
same wages as other student employees by a long-standing College policy of paying all students the same wage. “To pay
some students at a higher rate of pay could create a condition that would be unfair to the other working
students,” he said.

Roberts said that the new WDAV control board is expected to arrive on or slightly after November 6. She hopes
the station will be able to resume broadcasting around November 20, to give the new staff time to become accustomed
to station equipment and procedure before the New York Metropolitan Opera broadcasts begin on December 5.

Some question has arisen whether classical programming by WDAV will provide a public service to the Charlotte area in light
of the programming of WPVR-Rock Hill and WFAE-Charlotte. WPVR is part of the South Carolina Educational Radio Network. Its signal
can be picked up well in the Charlotte area. WFAE is the radio station of UNC-Charlotte and is operated by
that school’s Student Broadcasting Association. WFAE will increase its wattage around June 1979 to 100,000, which will enable it to
cover Charlotte and a large section of the Carolina Piedmont with its signal. WFAE intends to become a National Public
Radio Station in 1980, which means that it will receive federal funding. Roberts maintains, “Rock Hill is primarily an educational
station which broadcasts some classical music at night.

We have no idea what the nature of WFAE’s programming will be after they increase power to 100,000 watts and
become a National Public Radio Station, but it seems logical that they will be primarily a public affairs station. Our
classical programming will definitely fill a vacuum.”

Spencer told The Davidsonian last week that he also expects WFAE will program primarily public affairs.

In contrast, Chris Wright, Program Director for WFAE told The Davidsonian Wednesday, “WFAE presently broadcasts 50 hours of classical music
a week. After the move to 100,000 watts, 20 to 30 hours will probably be added to this total. Our
status as a National Public Radio Station will probably not affect the amount of classical music we broadcast. Dr. Spencer
appears to be under the misguidance that being an NPR station means that we will have to concentrate our programming
in education or public affairs. This is not true. We intend to retain fine arts broadcasting as our primary focus,
playing a great deal of classical and jazz.”

He also added that Davidson has not contacted us about our rate hike.

Reese said WDAV broadcasts “a total of 45 hours of classical music per week during the school year and 60
to 65 hours during school holidays and vacations.”

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

The Davidson chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) received permission to participate Tuesday in a hearing
to be held this winter concerning the transportation of nuclear wastes to McGuire Nuclear Station.

Duke Power Company is looking for approval to transport nuclear waste from its disposal plant in Oconee, S.C., to McGuire
ten miles south of Davidson on N.C. highway 73. The company hopes to move three truckloads a day, beginning in
March, on a route through, among other places, Clemson, S.C., Greenville, S.C., and Cornelius, N.C.

The route also involves the intersection of Interstates 77 and 85, which has been the site of nine truck overturns
in the past two years.

Plans are hinging on approval by the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB), which is presently in the process of
scheduling hearings on the matter.

At a hearing Tuesday, ASLB hearing board chairman Robert Lazo decided to allow Davidson PIRG to be present at the
hearings.

Procedural technicalities are still being worked out to determine the parties which will be present at the ASLB discussion and
the exact date of the hearing.

Davidson PIRG President Chuck Gaddy says he expects the hearing to take place sometime in December.

Gaddy also commented that the March deadline for beginning the tentative shipments could possibly be pushed back because of environmental
lobbyists arguing against transport of the nuclear material, among whom is PIRG. These lobbyists stress the danger of leakage in
the event of an accident.

Gaddy said Duke's view is that “there are no hazards involved.”

PIRG sent a letter earlier this month to the ASLB requesting permission to contribute to debates on the matter of
nuclear waste transport. The reasons stated were: 1) PIRG is investigating the attitudes and preparedness of Charlotte public safety officials
in case of an accident involving nuclear material, and would like to present its findings; 2) PIRG is concerned about
the potential environmental impact of transporting nuclear waste through populated areas; and 3) PIRG believes that the public has a
right to be informed and involved in decisions that affect their safety and environment.

CONTRACEPTION COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841.
