The Davidsonian
January 27, 1978

Top New Testament scholar brings message
By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

The Thomas F. Staley lectures for 1978 will deal with the topic, "Judaism and Christianity." They will be presented early
next week by Dr. W.W. Davies, George Washington Ivey Professor of Advanced Research in Christian Origins at Duke University Divinity
School.

Dr. Max Polley, Professor of Religion at Davidson, was an acquaintance of Dr. Davies at Duke University during the early
1950s. In a special interview, Dr. Polley called the Staley speaker "the leading New Testament scholar in the world." Dr.
Polley stressed Dr. Davies’ unique methods of inquiry, employing Rabbinical sources to illustrate New Testament teachings. "He is a thorough
scholar, using a detailed analysis of the text," said Polley. Most important, though, "he takes a highly complex issue, makes
it simple, and excites the listener at the same time. I have heard him speak on numerous occasions, and each
time I have come away having learned something, and highly enthused," Polley continued.

Drama shop opens today
By ESTHER BRUCE
Asst. Features Editor

The Annual Drama Workshop Series of plays directed by and acted in solely by students begins today with the presentation
of Aria da Capo and The Indian Wants the Bronx. The productions will be held in the Drama Workshop of
the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Admission is $1.

The schedule for the series is as follows:
January 26-27, 7 pm—Aria da Capo, a farcical tragedy by Edna St. Vincent Millay. Page Miller, senior, director. The Indian
Wants the Bronx, by Israel Horovitz. Brad Christie, junior, director.
February 2, 7 pm and February 3, TBA—The American Dream, a one-act satire by Edward Albee. Fran Worthy, senior, director.
Adaptation, a comedy TV game show by Elaine May. Ellen Schlaefer, senior, director.
February 8-9, 7 pm—Waiting for Lefty, a social drama from the 1930s by Clifford Odets. Paul Schleifer, senior, director.
February 16-17, 7 pm—The Trysting Place by Booth Tarkington. Alex Bass, junior, director. Schubert's Last Serenade by Julie Bovasso. Pam
McClure, senior, director.

NEW RIDING
By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

Weightless and flying down a Vermont hill in waist-deep powder during the Christmas holidays, Davidson Ski Club President Dean Marshall
tore the ligaments in his thumb. When Marshall and the 27 other club members who made the Vermont trip returned,
he conceded that everyone is not injured on such trips. "Everybody doesn’t break bones—only the crazy people."

Although a freshman, it did not take Marshall very long to bolster the faltering campus Ski Club. His enthusiasm has
led to a drastic membership increase, going from almost zero last year to its present 50. "Skiing gets into your
blood. It’s almost better than sex," he said. Other trips are presently being planned to either Beech or Sugar Mountain.

Dr. Davies "is very sensitive to moral issues. The topic he will deal with in the lecture series is crucial,
the current relationship between Christianity and Judaism, their interdependence as well as differences," Polley reported. In addition to being a
renowned teacher, Dr. Davies is an accomplished author, having written eight outstanding works. They are all thoroughly researched, original, and
authoritative, according to Polley. He is currently co-editing the Cambridge History of Judaism. Dr. Davies, President of the Society of
Biblical Literature, is also involved in various other scholarly activities.or Sugar Mountain. Marshall encouraged any students possibly interested in going
along to come to the club’s next meeting. Under the guidance of Marshall and ROTC Major Collins, the club hopes
to get a charter so that they will be eligible to receive College funds. They complain that their treasurer, Robert
Waller, presently does not have anything to do. Mark Hooper is the club vice-president and Bill Coward is the secretary.

COLLEGE SKI WEEK CARNIVAL AT KILLINGTON, VERMONT
January 2-6, 1978
@ Five Day Lift Ticket
@ Four Nights in Motel
@ Nine Great Meals
@ Ski 50 Runs, 3000' Drop
@ Nightly Entertainment
@ Dance to Live Bands
@ Free Keg Party
@ Surprise Extras
ONLY $119.50 to $139.50

To receive all the details on this great trip, send this ad with your request to United Intercollegiate Skiers Association,
4040 South 28th St., Arlington, VA 22206. (No collect, please).

The Society for New Testament Studies will be on campus January 29-31. Lectures will be given at 10:00 a.m. in
the Chambers Gallery on Monday 30 and Tuesday 31. Students may sign up for private interviews at the office of
Dr. Sam Maloney, coordinator for the series. The Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Series was established by the Thomas F.
Staley Foundation and the late Mr. Thomas F. Staley, '25, L.L.D. '66. “The series reflects Mr. Staley’s abiding concern for
students, Davidson College, and for extending the Christian faith.”

By BETH LAWING
Staff Writer

The classic art of horseback riding may make its debut here this spring through the generosity of Jim Howard and
the hard work of many. The school has yet to assume any financial responsibility for the program this year. Future
financial help will be predicated completely on the program’s success.

Howard first conceived of converting his cattle barn and 350 acres when looking for a way to develop his land
outside Cornelius. He heard of Davidson’s possible interest in establishing a school riding program. He contacted Tom Cartmill, athletic director,
outlined his ideas, and stepped out of the program. Howard is reluctant to discuss his involvement in the program, saying
that he does not wish to play an active role. He merely says, “I thought it would be a nice
combination.”

The program is being supported on this end by the driving efforts of Katherine Whitney, Sterling Martin, Diane Brown, and
many other dedicated volunteers. Although they have a free hand in the operation of the stables, Howard has stipulated the
distribution of his $5000 gift—$3000 towards the acquisition of horses and $2000 towards tack (riding equipment). While $5000 is not
much for an undertaking such as this, there are other generous sources. Woodlawn Stables in Alexandria, Va., is donating a
package deal of six horses, six ponies, and tack for 24 horses. Thanks to their generosity, the money from Howard
may go to fulfill other urgent needs such as new tools, grooming equipment, and shoeing.

Although facilities now only accommodate 12 horses, Sterling Martin foresees no difficulties in putting the ponies out to pasture. They
may sell some or all of these ponies, but that decision has not yet been made. Several horses are at
the stables now. Most are gifts; two are purchases. Katherine Whitney and Diane Brown were responsible for purchasing these two
“school” horses which will be used especially for instruction. At this time, involved students volunteer one day a week to
go out to the stables, feed the horses, exercise them, clean their stalls, etc.
