Opinion
The Davidsonian
January 20, 1978

Israelis thwart Sadat peace move
By YOUSE
Guest Columnist

The very audacity of Sadat’s act, like the artificial mountains which are the pyramids, deserves recognition. The ups and downs are inevitable in the process; there will be complicated negotiations, but the parties have fated themselves to success. Those are the words of Time magazine, which made Sadat their Man of the Year. It is a title he fully deserves, after having risked his position, his reputation, and his life; the latter will remain in peril until his last day. The cause—a worthwhile one—is peace, and the end to a war that, if unchecked, could lead to a major confrontation or Third World War, meaning utter destruction.

At this point, however, it seems that Israel is reacting very poorly to his initiative. In fact, the talks are at a perilous and ominous standstill on freshly arising problems such as the increasing number of settlements in the Sinai. These are capricious and obstinate attempts of resistance on the part of a selfish minority that is not concerned with the consequences. They only seek to fulfill their avidity at the risk of blocking the peace negotiations and enhancing the already present scorn of the radical hardline rejectionist front that won’t hesitate to take rash action against the intended peace talks.

A closer look at the question of settlements indicates an obvious weakness in some Israeli officials. They are afraid of losing their positions and power by facing the angry settlers, who claim they are historically attached “to the Sinai.” Historically attached? It is somehow hard to believe how people can be “historically attached” to a barren desert that has very little, if any, sign of history at all. Yet after a maximum period of ten years, they become “historically attached!” Bear in mind that the Arabs conquered Spain and lived there for 800 years—yet they still do not claim “historical attachment” to Cordova, Alhambra, and Madrid.

Don’t Forget Your Sweetie! Valentine’s Day is Tuesday, Feb. 14
VILLAGE STORE
“When you care enough to send the very best”

The second and most grave issue is that of the Palestinians. Historically, the Palestinians were the Muslim, Christian, and Jewish Arabs living on the strip of land called Palestine. In 1948, three million Christian and Muslim Palestinians were driven out of their homeland. They were terrorized and doomed to be refugees, living in tents, covered by rags, and banned from returning to their land. The Zionist movement, whose roots had started in the late 19th century and early 20th century, had taken over.

One must not confuse Zionists with Jews. Judaism, like Christianity, is a religion respected by the Arab majority. Everywhere in the Arab world, there are Muslim, Christian, and Jewish Arabs. The Zionist expansion, on the other hand, was that the Jewish Arab minority should rule based on the fact that over 2000 years before, there had existed a Jewish state (that had not existed more than 90 years). They embarked on wide-scale plans to wipe off the present inhabitants and establish what is now known as the state of Israel. The Zionists pushed forth the idea of “God’s chosen race,” which was, ironically enough, an equivalent to Hitler's master race and which, in many ways, adopted the same gruesome techniques in achieving their end. Volumes can be filled with the atrocities and massacres that have taken place, of which very few have reached the West.

As Moshe Dayan subtly pointed out when he addressed the Israeli Technological Institute in April 1969: “We came to this country which was already populated by Arabs, and we are establishing a Hebrew, a Jewish state here. In considerable areas of the country, we bought the land from the Arabs. Jewish villages were built in the place of Arab villages. You do not even know the names of these Arab villages and I don’t blame you, since those geography books no longer exist. Not only do the books not exist—the Arab villagers are not there either.” (Ha’aretz, April 4, 1969.)

The latest massacre was 100 Lebanese civilians killed in retaliation for the deaths of three Israeli civilians. “An eye for a tooth!” reported Newsweek. Most people in the West know very little about the truth of the Middle East issue, except for what they are exposed to in the pro-Zionist and Jewish-controlled mass media. The media tries to project the Jews in an image of being persecuted in order to induce pity. In fact, it is this image that the Jews are persecuted that has drawn world opinion to their side.

Does one have to listen to such Israeli threats of launching a war that shall mobilize the armies of the Middle East for years? (Charlotte Observer, October 27, 1977.) Or does one have to go to Egypt and see the Business
By SID BARRETT
Guest ColumnistDavidson’s academic environment, in many ways, is weathering these difficult economic times rather well. Our faculty is energetic and concerned, compared to most, and is almost as active and vital in extracurriculars as the students themselves. Our student body, despite the self-centeredness that a bleak job market encourages, is remarkably involved. Look at CROP, our prison and education programs, DCF work projects, PIRG. With such a wonderful atmosphere, an outsider might ask, why the unrest, the constant state of dissatisfaction with the state of affairs here? Why do faculty members voice more and more frustration over having their new ideas stifled or ignored, and why are young teachers like David Rice getting out of Davidson?

My speculation is that the answer lies somewhere in the Administration’s communication tendencies, with the nature of the decision-making process here, and with the values that guide it. In dealing with the Administration/student relationship, as manager of WDAV, what first appeared to be a failure to communicate rapidly proved to be a profound lack of interest in communicating on the part of the administration. Somehow, as a student, I found myself getting second priority. When decisions were made that had direct import for the station, for example, I discovered that just finding out what the decisions were could take weeks of frustrating negotiations. Often, when the decisions were unpopular ones, this lack of interest in communicating had the added advantage of saving the administration the discomfort of our incessant protests.

Another case in point might be the 200,000 dollar remodeling of Carnegie House, duly conducted over the carefree, student-less months of the summer of 1976. I detected a disillusioning lack of directness and honesty in Administrative communications. I’m aware these are strong words, but how would you like to be told that you cannot take two courses because you would be a bad influence on your roommate's study habits? With all due respect to Dr. Zimmerman, I frankly do not believe that this is the reason he adopted the mandatory three-course policy.

Today the Middle East is a highly explosive area. If President Sadat’s initiatives are not answered, the possibility of a war or an oil embargo is very real. Perhaps even a military intervention from a dying and desperate Europe? A U.S. involvement and a Soviet counterattack? A Third World War? Utter destruction of this planet! Maybe it is time for us to step out of our conditioned, slanted prejudices and ideals. Find out more and realize the dangers. And as the Buddhist teaching says: the greatest sin and evil in the world is avidya—ignorance.

As usual, issues such as WDAV and the college’s hiring policies, the carefully worded official statements and after-the-fact rationalizations took on the air of Ron Ziegler’s press conferences during the Nixon years. An overstatement? Perhaps, but why can’t Davidson College be as frank about its criteria for these decisions as its faculty and students are about their grievances? It’s hardly a fair deal. I often feel like I am being told only what is expedient for me to hear, in the interest of minimizing the unpleasant implications that might prompt complaint. (I certainly hope Dr. Zimmerman did not unload that “study habit” line on President Spencer while explaining his decision.)

I also became aware of a kind of wall around the Administrative decision-making process. If the untenured teacher situation is any indication, it seems that the students are not alone in sensing this aloofness. In many crucial decisions, such as the Linden affair, there is often no serious consideration of student or faculty sentiment, even in matters which directly affect our lives here. Possibly the Administration feels that we cannot understand the difficulty of selling Davidson’s image in the small college scramble for funds, and perhaps they feel that students’ criticisms are irresponsible and not to be worried about too much. While there may be a grain of truth here, it is not enough to account for their persistent reluctance to be frank and open. One reason for this, unfortunately, may be that the criteria for their decisions indicate that financial and public relations concerns have an undue influence, sometimes more than academic concerns. This would be rather difficult to defend in a frank discussion of priorities.

I will grant that the present Administration has done a remarkable job of attracting funds to Davidson. But the time and money spent on Carnegie House, WDAV’s new transmitter and a 600,000 dollar sports program could be tempered with some increased concern for a stifled faculty, a languishing fine arts program, or an ethnically and racially diversified faculty and staff.

Such are my discontents, as best I can track them down. I sense a touch of the old ‘business as usual’ ethic operating behind our Administrative [see BUSINESS, page 7]