The Tao Comes to Davidson

(with apologies to the members of English 253 and our guest lecturer)

The first tiny wonderers who came before

Leviathan Stranded

were followed by detectives looking for the criminal,
investigative, counting rings,

estimating time and circumstances

(the only witness of the instant said

to be one nocturnal cameraman

caught by surprise and still underneath).
So proud, so stern, and so beached,

the last oak of a commencement address
(but so long to die!

last year’s tree of May rotted
by September they say),
his limbs were too strong to give until

the chill could never be shaken off or out

of the sleeves of his overcoat—

an old man growing heavier and heavier until he fell.
“How could a granddaddy oak live so long

in such shallow soil?” they say

as they see the uncovered head of roots and clay.

~

Earlier, out Grey Road, backed by a wonderland of winter meadow

the first charm puckers
the face of a cow whorled through the fence
and chews a loop of frosty lettuce—
a riddle in bovine phiz between rails and arched
with a boa of silver cedar
(somebody's taste in beauty and grub!).

In the woods the bombardment has been lifted.

Some casualties stand still erect, headless, armless,
yellow splintered spikes, broken glass at their feet,
(trek of the mastodon)
by a path crossed by suppliants
who bow bridge after bridge to climb or duck.

Above the hillside as high as the power line

peers the second creature, the head of the Blue Ox,

smoky of nostril, icy of horn, dull of eye,

her muzzle drips with briny sludge.

Blue Babe on a bender!

But it won’t last forever. With the thaw

we'll see which pines melt straight

of the ones that haven't pulled themselves out by the ankles.
Then all will return to water and mud.

At the top of the hill from the gate to the cross-country path
mid-soccer-field
a boy leaps and pauses
carrying a girl piggyback through the brittle.
Soon they walk and reach the road round the school
to the post office, the front campus.
He could have been leaping from boulder to boulder in the Ice Age.

A last look at the woods:

if some strength could spring the drawn trunks

now while all is sheeted fast,

it would fill the air with spangles—

and the forest floor with swan heads and shards of chandelier.
Tiffany’s after the Beast!

Or if the freeze never broke,

the glass blower’s clipper could sail forever in her arctic rigging,
never float free,

and the saws of the workmen still be cutting ice.

Gil Holland
