February 17, 1978  
The Davidsonian  
Philip D. Duncan, Editor  
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager.  
Volume LXVII, Number Seventeen  

February 17, 1978  

Money or morals?  

The question of Davidson's investment policy raised by Jeff Metzel is important. Is Davidson indirectly supporting a racist regime in South Africa by investing our funds in companies that operate there? We think so. Granted, the question can be debated on many levels. Some think the multinationals represent a progressive element in South Africa. They have promised to work for racial equality at the workplace. On the other hand, there is only so much they can do. Under Apartheid, it is illegal to pay equal wages to blacks and whites. And at this point, it looks like white supremacy rule is there to stay.  

We think it basically boils down to this: the South African government is an extremely repressive regime dedicated to the principle of white supremacy. The country’s economy and therefore the success of that government depends largely on investment from abroad (of which 17 to 20 percent comes from the United States). By investing its funds in companies that do business in South Africa, Davidson is helping to support Apartheid. The connection may be tenuous, but nevertheless it is there.  

What should Davidson do? The final answer has to come from the college community, but here are a couple of possibilities. We could put pressure on the companies and support any stockholder votes to withdraw from South Africa. Or we could invest our money elsewhere. Will Davidson’s action affect the course of history? No, not by itself, but a number of colleges around the country have taken action already (Oberlin and Wisconsin are notable examples), and Davidson could play a part in a growing grassroots movement. There is no question of the importance of such a movement. It is highly unlikely that change will come from the corporations or governments involved without considerable pressure from the bottom.  

We do realize that Davidson's financial position cannot be ignored. The college might have to give up some very profitable investments, but, in the end, this is a question of moral integrity. If we really are a Christian college, we’d better show it.  
—Dave Nash  

Enough talk  

From The Davidsonian, December 19, 1975, in an article concerning evaluation of faculty for promotion and tenure:  

“Spencer, following an outline proposed by ex-Vice President for Academic Affairs John M. Bevan, is ‘working on a more systemized and formalized set of procedures which spell out the criteria more specifically.’”  

Now, over two years later, the Student Government Association is expressing its concern that Davidson College suffers from the “lack of well-defined procedures and policies for faculty evaluation.” Since the College Administration’s December 15 decision not to renew the contract of Professor Tonia Devon (the event that motivated the SGA resolution), the pages of this newspaper have been filled with articles, editorials, and letters concerning the procedures used by the Administration in evaluating Devon. There has been talk from one side that the evaluation process was “unprofessional,” “incompetent,” “unethical.” There has been talk from another side that Davidson will retain only the “very best” professors, that it seeks “not just a good faculty, but an outstanding one.” From one side, talk. From another side, talk.  

There has been enough talk. When the SGA resolution is presented to the Trustees, we ask the Board to act, to issue a directive that sets Davidson College on the course of establishing a code of faculty evaluation procedures. A push from the top is necessary to bring all elements of the community—students, faculty, and administration—into the evaluation process.  

Students must participate responsibly through course and instructor critiques. The faculty must assume the burden of judging itself through a faculty committee on Appointment, Evaluation, and Tenure. The administration, while retaining the final and decisive voice in faculty hiring, must show willingness to decentralize the evaluation process and solicit broad-based input so as to avoid the appearance of a “closed-door, smoke-filled room” process.  

We have said before, and say again, that as long as Davidson College operates without a professional code of evaluation for faculty, its efforts to encourage good scholarship and obtain truly outstanding teachers are crippled. The longer that Davidson operates without a code, the more rumors we will hear of inconsistent and arbitrary administrative evaluations.  

From The Davidsonian, January 20, 1978, in an article concerning evaluation of faculty for promotion and tenure:  

“He (Vice President for Academic Affairs Zimmermann) and Spencer concur that a ‘more thorough-going evaluation’ and more specific guidelines are needed.  

“We are currently working with the Professional Affairs Committee of the Faculty on revising this whole procedure in an attempt to put it in a codified form.”  

Remember the adage “the more things change, the more they stay the same”? We must not allow it to hold true at Davidson.SS ies “‘SePhilip Duncan : ens 4egeiy? ray SRSA root hua te | Letter to the Editor ‘Token’ view of Jew To the Editor: For the last few weeks The Davidsonian has played the soapbox for various viewpoints concerning the Middle East situation. Being a Jew, I suppose there’s the possibility that I may be oversensitive to certain allegations concerning ‘my people but, be that as it may, I would now like to offer my own token opinion. Before anything else let me explain the concept of God’s chosen people as it was taught to me in my 8 years of Hebrew school at an orthodox shul. It is not in any sense a doctrine that proclaims that due to my ancestry I am in any way more deserving of reward or privilege by divine activity. Rather it is the obligation to lead an exemplary life as according to the Torah, in return for a personal G-d’s historic intervention. Secondly, some further information concerning the massacre at Deir Yasin (and should it matter, my source is the London Times, a paper that could hardly be considered pro-Jewish at the time). It seems people enjoy harping on this singular incident as proof of the intrinsic murderous mentality of the Palestinian Jews. It should be remembered that this atrocity was committed by a terrorist group typical of but a small minority of the Jews. Furthermore, official organizations, such as the Jewish Agency, wished to express its horror and disgust upon knowledge of the massacre. (For myself, I cannot recall any official Arab condemnation of Arab terrorism.) Thirdly it should be noted that terrorism was definitely a mutually practiced maneuver. As early as 1920 there is documentation of anti-Jewish violence by the Arabs. Before Deir Yasin, within a period of a few months there were Arab terrorist attacks on Jewish colonies such as Tireh (assaulted by 40-50 Arabs), Ramat Rachel (attacked by approximately 100 Arabs), Neve Yaacov, Hartov, and Mishmar Haemek, to name a few. (As far as I can tell the only difference between these terrorist activities and those committed at Deir Yasin was the amount of success at carrying out the original intention.) Official Arab statements at the time consisted of such quotations as Syria's Prime Minister Mardem Bey’s statement calling for “teach(ing) the treacherous Jews an unforgettable lesson” and M. Chamoun of Lebanon’s proclamation that the Jewish state would envelop the entire Mid-east and that the Arabs were defending the world against communism which was being introduced by Zionists. (I guess Moscow’s ties with the Arab nations must have slipped M. Chamoun’s mind at the time.) Upon the declaration of statehood by Israel after the end of the British Mandate (the Jews were not in any way given Palestine on a silver platter), the state proclamation called for equality for all inhabitants without distinction for race, creed, or religion, and for amity with the Arab nations. The response to this was invasion on all sides. Fighting would again be initiated by the Arabs in three more successive wars. Nor has Arab terrorism stopped as can be witnessed by Maalot or the ‘72 Olympics. Certainly I can’t condone the Israeli reprisal but I would like to recall the bombing of Beirut airport in which the Israelis warned of the oncoming bombing so that only planes and not people would be destroyed. Now Israel is being blamed for the failings of the present peace conferences which, as has been pointed out in a previous letter, called for demands never considered legitimate by Israel at present. (I wonder how people can expect Israel to hand over the West Bank when such groups as Yasser Arafat’s PLO have dedicated themselves to the destruction of the Israeli state.) I do not want anyone to think that I consider Israel to be blameless for its actions and positions but I do think it is necessary for people to realize that the Arabs have not been the most conscientious of neighbors. Perhaps when both sides truly realize that concessions must be made with equal consideration peace will be had. Jason Noble ‘78 Davidson College Executive Editor LYMAN A. COLLINS, II Senior Editors News Editors Sports — Mike Britt, John Willingham; Jackson; Circulation — Karen Long. The opinions expressed are those of the authors and the Board. BILL BARNETT JIM ENTWISTLE HARRY GREYARD DAVE NASH Features Editor CHARLES ERWIN CAMRY SACHTIEN MARSHALL WADDELL Copy Editor DAVID ISENHOWER ANN SHEAFFER Department assistants: News — Stephen Gold; Features — Robert Bowie, Esther Bruce; Sports — Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments — Margaret The Davidsonian's Editorial Board—the editor, executive editor, senior editors and editorial assistants. The views expressed do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the Board.