May 5, 1978

The Davidsonian

7

Town Day features
‘pedal power’ theme

By ESTHER BRUCE
Features Editor

It began at least ten years ago as a town-wide clean-up campaign. It has grown to an annual collaboration, complete
with games and a parade—Town Day.

The day is sponsored by the Park and Recreation Committee. Activities will be located on the Village Green. Games sponsored
by local merchants will be available, as well as various booths. “The Drama Department will probably have a make-up booth,”
said Nicholls.

A booth could involve almost any type of thing, and any group is welcome to have one. “Any organization which
wants to have a booth can certainly do so,” Nicholls encouraged. “We have lots of space.”

The college “Y” has been involved to various degrees in past years. This year the group is an active, but
not a driving force. They will run the drinking booth.

The kick-off for the day is the parade down Main Street at noon. “Pedal Power” is the theme of this
year’s parade, and says Nicholls, “There will be nothing motorized.”

Fun, games, and togetherness are the means and ends of a successful Town Day. Explained Nicholls, “It’s just sort of
a day for the town to get together.”

Here is the day’s schedule:

10 am—Bike Race and Bike Hike (10 miles) starting and ending at the Town Green. Route: Grey Road, Shearer’s Road,
Rocky River Road, Concord Road. Registration 9:45 am.
10:15 am—Short Bike Hike (2½ miles) in town limits. Registration 9:45 am.
12 noon-5 pm—Attic Sale, under the tent, sponsored by Davidson PTA and Thrift Shop. Meals and refreshments.
12:30 pm—Parade “Cycle Spectacular” from Elementary School to Town Green. Prize for Best Bicycle Float, Most Original Cycle Theme, Historic
Cycling, and Bicycle Safety.
1-5 pm—Community Fair (set up time 12:30 pm). Fun booths, entertainment, refreshments. “Drawings” for 10-speed bike, Polaroid camera, and a
cute hamster. Most fun booths charge 5 cents.
1 pm—Tour North Mecklenburg’s fully equipped ambulance.
2 pm—Library “Story Hour on the Green.”
2-3 pm—Stamp Traders’ Hour.
3 pm—Raffle.
3:30 pm—Performance of Charlotte’s famous Steel Drum Band.

Says College Housing Director Scotty Nicholls, “It just started as an effort to respond in some way to people being
aware of the town...a clean-up campaign.”

Now Town Day, which is to be held on Saturday, May 6, is a day full of activities, starting with
a parade at noon and lasting “until five or six, whenever people get tired of playing the games,” said Nicholls.

Only 14 studying days left before exams.

COCO McCONNELL
PHILADELPHIA, PA

OF YOURSELF BEHIND THIS SUMMER

It's simple. Just call, write, or come by the bank and request a wildcat vacation account. When you take off
for the summer leave $1 or more in your account and it will be ready for use again when you
return in September. Just give us a call and we will take your account off vacation when you return. Your
personalized checks will still be good and best of all NO SERVICE CHARGE while your account is on ‘vacation’. Of
course, if you plan on using your checking account this summer you won't need a vacation account.

Illustrations: Alphabet Soup

At PIEDMONT BANK, we do more for our customers.

Silkscreens and Watercolors

BILLY BARKLEY
GREENSBORO, NC
Reception: May 6, 4:00 pm

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC

O First Union National.

DAVIDSON.
