The Davidsonian

Upcoming Trustee meeting

The Board of Trustees

Opinion By ANN B. GARNER
FOCUS Editor

When the Board of Trustees assembles on May 4-5, they will face several decisions as each committee submits reports summarizing the progress and problems of the past year. Assistant to the President Gary Barnes outlined the major issues that will be discussed. "The items for action will come primarily from the Committees on Education, Finance and Management, and Development, yet each committee will be giving their specific year-end reports."

Concerning the action of the Committee for Finance and Development, Business Manager Robert A. Currie detailed upcoming issues. "There’ll be a report on college property in Raleigh (valued at $1,000,000), whether to sell or to hold it. In addition, there will be an adoption of a formal statement on Endowment Investment responsibility," Currie continued. "The investment responsibility policy involves all investments. What the committee says about South Africa, I won’t really know until that meeting."

The question of Davidson’s investments in South Africa was raised recently in a study by senior Jeff Metzel. Yet Currie stressed that "the statement will be addressed to their responsibility of endowment funds on several factors, not just on investments in South Africa."

There will also be reports given by a representative of an independent firm on the present college endowment investments. "Generally speaking, it will just be a general report on overall planning for the campus," said Grover C. Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant. This committee will discuss upcoming plans for the doctors' building, the college commons, and the renovations of Martin Science Building. Committee Chairman W. Blair Gwyn is "encouraged about the prospects."

H. Perrin Anderson, chairman of the Committee on Athletics and Education, enumerated several aspects of their report to the Trustees. "There have been some new developments since the last meeting."

Trustees describe relationship to Davidson

Dr. James A. McFarland, 52, is the director of internal medicine at Richland Memorial Hospital in Columbia, S.C. McFarland has been on the Board of Trustees since 1970 and serves on the Student Life and Health Committee.

By JAMES A. McFARLAND
Guest Columnist

Davidson College is one of the more beautiful and peaceful spots that I know in terms of its physical aspects. But to describe my relationship to Davidson is to describe my perceptions of the people that make up the community of the College, for it is those people that determine its nature and my reactions both to them and as a part of the community myself.

The basic nature of my relationship is as an alumnus. The quality of that relationship began as a student and the associations I had with the faculty and with fellow students. Following that period came a long hiatus where I remained in as close touch as one can through the alumni publications and occasional visits to the campus. In my present state as a trustee, this experience has in many respects been an intensification of previous contacts with, and feelings toward, the College. This relationship as a trustee has particularly gone far beyond my prior experiences in three most important areas. These are in the close associations with the present faculty and administration, with many members of the student group and with the other members of the Board of Trustees. There also has been to some degree a significant change in my relationship with other alumni, which I will allude to later.

To attempt to capsule the impressions I have developed of these present groups of persons in a few words borders on the impossible, but I will make the attempt with one sentence allotted to each. The faculty and administration I would characterize as personable, extremely capable, very aware of the unique character of Davidson College and possessing a thorough commitment toward continuing the College’s role as one of the very small number of fine educational institutions of its kind. The students impress me as aware and concerned to a degree which is both challenging and a bit awesome, well beyond my generation’s intellectual attainments but at the same time remarkably similar in many characteristics (attitudes, ambitions, perhaps even naivety). The Trustees I can best describe as persons immensely loyal to the College as they knew her, aware of the complexities and challenges of the present and future in the world of higher education and able and willing to make those often difficult and pressured judgments required as members of the governing body of the College.

I also want to include a brief word about my present perception of the alumni. They are for the most part proud of their Davidson heritage and grateful for what they received from the College but widely divergent in their opinions as to the present status and directions of the school. These views stem in part from their present attitudes about society, economics, politics, their own levels of achievement and life in general, but also from the quality of information and misinformation they receive about goings on at the College now. I remain firmly convinced that the current majority of the alumni would be understanding andApproving of the general concerns and directions of the College community, if they could experience the kind of contacts I have had in the past five years. My responsibilities as a Trustee I would divide into two spheres. The first is quite obviously as a member of the governing body. This involves work on committees, general support of College activities, the task of becoming as informed as possible on issues before the board, occasionally voicing opinions to the board where and when I can usefully do so, and finally the ultimate responsibility of making the best judgment I can in casting my vote on these issues. The second sphere can be best described as a conduit or channel of information from the College community to the alumni and members of the public community, and, in the opposite direction, to the College community from the alumni. Perhaps interpreter, or sometimes even arbiter, might be a better word to describe this role, but it is this role I often feel to be the most rewarding and possibly the most important in my particular situation. I feel great affection for the College and its people and similar affection for my fellow alumni, and it causes me considerable distress when I feel there is misunderstanding between them. This brief comment has proven to be more difficult to formulate than I expected when I casually agreed to make the attempt. A revered teacher I had in medical school constantly reminded us that clarity and conciseness were the two prime essentials in medical writing. I rarely ever achieve either entirely to my satisfaction, but I hope that I have conveyed something of my feelings toward my role as a trustee and my sense of gratitude for the experience.

John G. Medlin, Jr., is the president and chief executive officer of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. Medlin, a relatively new member of the board, began his first term last spring. He is a member of the Finance and Management Committee.

By JOHN G. MEDLIN, JR.
Guest Columnist

My relationship as a Trustee of Davidson began about one year ago. Not being an alumnus or a Presbyterian, this time has been largely a learning period for me. It was accelerated last fall when I also became a Davidson parent. Being in my middle forties and a member of the middle generation, I feel an ability to understand and communicate well with both the older and younger generations. Therefore, I see an important part of my mission as a Trustee to preserve the best in Davidson’s traditions and principles from the past while progressively building on them for the future. In addition, I hope to use my experience in business and finance to advise the administration in its management process. All institutions face a strong challenge in this area these days because of inflationary costs and other changes in the social, political, and economic environment. Without sound business management, the academic process will not be nearly so successful, nor will the student body go away with the preparation they deserve and need for later life. All of this I see as part of my responsibility for public service outside my job and contribution to the betterment of society.

Dr. J. Randolph Taylor, ’51, is the pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, N.C. He has served on the Board of Trustees since last year and is a member of the Education Committee.

By J. RANDOLPH TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

Trustees have a corporate responsibility to set policy for the College, to review its progress and to plan its future. It is the “buck stopping” role which every institution requires. Trustees serve as a bridge between the larger community and the College, advocating and interpreting the value of the enterprise based upon knowledge and understanding of its program and its people. The Board must see that the College is well managed, delegating sufficient authority and freedom to the President and staff to administer the institution. Trustees provide the central force for the nurture of the College from all sources of material support, and should demonstrate 100 percent participation by personal gift as well as influencing other individuals and organizations to give. They have an over-arching responsibility to protect the institutional integrity and freedom of the College. In addition to the corporate responsibilities which trustees bear together, there is an individual responsibility or relationship which is more difficult to define, but no less essential to the life and growth of the College. Trustees should love the institution which is entrusted to them. That does not mean that they ought to get sentimental when they hear the Alma Mater; it is a much sterner quality which is required. Trustees must will and work for the good of the College and must place themselves at its service with an awareness that their own life is somehow identified with its purposes and progress. It is a responsibility for caring in a personal way, in tune with the same understanding of love which makes a marriage whole, which makes a church relevant, which makes a nation strong. When focused upon a College, that quality of caring goes far toward giving it greatness.