April 28, 1978 The Davidsonian (by Wilson)

Can wealth be justified?
By CHUCK JONES

I was surprised last week to find that no one had responded to Frank Santore’s rather inflammatory column in The Davidsonian two weeks ago. Here is a belated reply. Actually, I find myself in agreement with Mr. Santore on his major issues. What I did not like was the manner in which they were presented. With his leave, I would like to try and present them in a more systematic fashion.

First, I must say something about the nature of money. Money is a tool; it is a means to an end. When you want something or you need something, you use money in order to obtain it. In this way, most of the headaches of a barter economy are alleviated and the American way is made possible. So much for theory. Unfortunately, money is also a means to power and social prestige, and the more money you have, the more of these commodities you amass. Your entire personal dignity and worth can be assessed by your bank account in the Real World in much the same way that it is assessed by your GPA here.

The question I want to put to students is this: How many of you have ever doubted that one day you too would end up in this moneyed class? How many of you look forward to the day when, as an established doctor or lawyer, you will take in that $60,000 plus income and never have to worry about money or social acceptance? I am not suggesting in any way that all pre-med or pre-law students are motivated solely by profit. However, the plain truth is that once you have established yourself as a doctor or a lawyer or whatever, the chances are that you will end up in the upper economic strata of society. It simply comes with the profession.

Personally, I question the virtue of being wealthy. Is one justified in having more money than one needs? I think not. Regarding money simply as a means to obtaining the necessities of life, there is no way to justify a large income for its own sake, or for the sake of social prestige. Here I think that I may be met with two objections:

First, there are those who think that wealth is justified because it enables one to do more good. After all, E.H. Little could not have financed our library had he not been a wealthy man. And just look at the Ford Foundation and other organizations which donate money to charitable and cultural causes. But let’s look a little more closely at this objection. Might it not be better put that being wealthy enables one to give more without sacrifice? If I have two million dollars and give one million away, I am still a rich man, and I can still live in luxury if I so desire. Also, it shows a narrowness of thinking to suppose that the only way to help people is to give them money. Very often, the giving of money is used as an excuse not to go out and render services to the needy.

Second, once you are married and have a family to raise, many of you will feel the obligation to bring up your children at the same standard of living in which your parents brought you up. Don’t you want your children to enjoy the same benefits you did? But how does one raise children well? Is it by raising them in luxury, or by instilling good character in them? Should they grow up dependent upon money and luxury, or is true virtue to be found elsewhere, independent of personal wealth?

Very well, you may say, how do I decide when my income becomes superfluous? Give me a figure. Is it at $20,000? $10,000? $5000? This is a question you must decide for yourself. I think everyone knows what is a necessity and what is a luxury. Ask yourself: can I get along without an automatic garage door opener? A blender? Air conditioning? A Cadillac? Meat for every meal? You will be surprised at all the things you can get along without. You might also be surprised at how much better your life is without them. I will once again...Stress that there is no justification for wealth accumulated without need. Those of you especially who call yourselves Christians ought to remember just how well camels fit through the eyes of needles. Money is not an end in itself, nor is social prestige and political power. The good life lies elsewhere.

I would like to conclude with a note to Mr. Santore and all those who use a public forum such as The Davidsonian to express their views. You have a responsibility to the other readers not to use them to vent your own anger and frustration. If you are going to grab my attention by printing the word "nigger" in boldface type, I want there to be something substantial there when I direct my attention to it. I do not want to see inflammatory, assertive statements which are left entirely unfounded and unsupported. When you present your case in this way, you alienate your readers and make a respectable and defensible view lose impact.

Letter to the Editor

Davidson should press reforms in South Africa

To the Editor—

Last Friday I finally saw Last Grave at Dimbaza, a filmed documentary which showed the oppressive nature of the apartheid system in South Africa. Not only was I shocked out of my dulled senses, but I was frustrated with a sense of helplessness—a sense of not being able to do anything about the injustices in South Africa, not being able to wipe the Vorster regime from the face of the map. A few hours later I had cooled down but I continued to search for a solution—a means of working towards change in South Africa and the Third World in general. Then the Student Opinion Poll for the Trustees came around and lo and behold, buried deep among the earth-shaking controversial issues of self-selection, male/female ratios, and faculty evaluations was this question: “Should Davidson invest in companies whose ethical principles differ from those of the College, as set forth in the Statement of Purpose?”

“GADZOOKS; why of course we shouldn’t invest in companies whose ethical principles differ from ours; these could be the same companies that are working within South Africa!” But it is not that simple; we haven't lived in a black and white world since “the good ole days.” Not investing could mean divesting and what say-so would Davidson have in a corporation's policy if it wasn’t a shareholder? The key is to push for change from within—it's not simply a matter of divestment or investment. By rocking the boat a little through persuasion, pressure, stockholder’s resolutions, etc., or by supporting others who are working for change, Davidson College could become an ethically responsible shareholder. We must no longer blindly abide by the “Wall Street Rule,” supporting management in all its ventures. We must no longer keep business principles and ethical principles separate and it is downright disgraceful to think that we’ve been doing it for so long. Already the “Christian Community” in the United States has expressed to hundreds of corporations their firm support for equal employment opportunities. Within the past five years they have discussed concerns with respect to racial and economic injustice in South Africa and with more general issues of development in the Third World. I think it is time for Davidson College to join this community in which it rightly belongs.

Albert Connette '80
Davidson College

Letter to the Editor

Peeples cites ethical motive

To the Editor—

I apologize for any offenses caused by my ROTC article of April 14. I cannot apologize for its pessimistic tone, for that was deliberate. I find it interesting that response to the article dwells solely on its negative aspects. I said many commendable things about ROTC at Davidson which should not be overlooked. The purpose of this article was not to condemn, but to question. As to charges of poor research, I must add that I interviewed sixteen cadets. Perhaps I should have quoted them by name, but many requested that I not do so. In fairness to their confidence, no names were mentioned. Finally, I believe wholly in Davidson’s ROTC program. I merely raised questions which I felt should be publicized.

Bill Peeples ’80
Davidson College

"OF COURSE HE GETS TENURE ~ HE'S PHYSICALLY VIGOROUS AND WE'RE SURE HE WON'T FIGHT ESTABLISHED POLICY."