. October 20, 1978 The Davidsonian 11

DAVIDSON

Last in series. FULLBACK DANNY Robinson dribbles quickly downfield hoping to set up an offensive play while the opponents are undergoing their transition from offense to defense. (Gregg Strader)

BB&B praise women’s column
By BATTLE SCARRED

Heading into the finals, we are definitely in the picture for the playoffs.

We want to introduce you to some of the personalities that have dominated the action the past few weeks. Hopefully, the B’s will report the final results to you next week. (We've refrained from trashing you in this article—you owe us, five weeks this term and the one you should have been reading for the last two years.)

First, to introduce ourselves. We call ourselves Battle Scarred and Other Close Encounters, and this week we're shoving BB & B aside to take a look at the finer things. Yes, we finally convinced the B's that their image was not on the line. Don't worry—you'll always be bad, Bernard.

The houses of Women’s IMAC have included High Anxiety, the Bops, Hot to Trot, Redneck Mothers, Amazing Greys, Ruskeller, Penthouse Rowdies, Three’s Company, Henderson House Harlots, and the Tinglies. Surprisingly enough, the Harlots and the Tinglies lost their drive before the season's climax and dropped out of the league. But we'll take a look at the remaining competitors.

The Penthouse Rowdies, led by “The Hulk” alias Span Stanback and Tonic “I can catch anything” Adkins, have trounced everyone, so, of course, are rated as the number one team. Tricia Haynes, operating as tailback, threw Bonehead for a loop with her fine passing. Katherine Allen and Nancy Warren help round out the team by playing the rest of the field.

The Amazing Greys, though definitely experienced, are trailing the Rowdies, but they assure us, it’s not over yet. “Hands” Howard and “I get more passes” Maccon destroy defenses, while Hunt sprints and Wright rushes.

Third in the line-up is Ruskeller, led by their president Brenda Stewart. Stewart and Plowden usually bulldoze the line, but their remaining strategy keeps contenders guessing.

In addition to the top three, the Redneck Mothers have come a long way and are “For all your flower needs.” Closed Tuesdays.

P.S. Also in the news:
1. The Yanks won the World Series.
2. The Male Ego was on the line this week as the Four Skins couldn’t measure up to KA Gold and the Old Men put down Up and Coming.
3. The GBO “yes we know what it stands for” Express remains frustrated. Sorry, guys.

Editor’s Note: Bad Bernard and Bonehead are basking in the sunlight of the Virgin Islands this week, but will return with an article next week.

Prepare for tough week
Cats top Catawba
By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

It was a genuinely pleasant experience to watch a Davidson soccer team completely dominate an opponent—well, for a half anyway. With two tough games at the end of this week, The Citadel on Thursday and Baptist College on Saturday, it seemed that Catawba was going to be a confidence builder.In preparation for the Cats’ tougher opponents, through most of the first half Davidson dominated the game, passing, defending, and scoring (three goals) with ease. But toward the end of the half, control of the game seemed to be slipping away. “I warned them rather sternly at the half,” said Coach Karl Kremser, “that they could turn this game into a rout, but if they gave Catawba a goal it would be an entirely different game.” Minutes into the half they gave Catawba a goal and it was an entirely different game.

While the Wildcats fought to regain control, Catawba just fought, kicking the ball whenever it came within reach. “Our problem seems to be something that I just never expected from these kids—mental,” explained Kremser. “They don’t get completely involved in the game. You have to be mentally prepared for each game. We just seemed to fall asleep at the end of the first half.”

To the squad’s credit, they were able to pull off a lopsided 3-1 victory with nearly 40 shots on goal. But all the easy games that Kremser feels they should have won are behind them. “The remainder of the season is the hardest part,” muses Kremser. “I just don’t know what to expect.”

Riflers set sights
By CRAIG RICE
Staff Writer

The Rifle team is busy preparing for their opener against Wake Forest and N.C.A.&T. on Saturday, October 28. Team members practice an average of six hours a week and shoot ten. Riflery is a varsity sport and the team, coached by Sergeant, competes in both the Southern Conference and the Western Carolina Conference. The squad is sponsored by the ROTC Department and advised by Major Van Collins.

Most matches shot by the team will be quarter courses. A quarter course consists of shooting one target in each of the three positions: prone, kneeling, and standing. The perfect score is 100 points per target or a total of 300 points. Ten team members will shoot at each match but only the top five scores will be counted. The squad is led by Captain Katherine Whitney who has already posted a score in the 270s. Other team standouts are senior Nathan Niblock and junior John Parham. Also to be counted upon during the season will be junior Robbie Kirkendol, and sophomores Nancy Cornwell, Reed Ellis, Pat Stuart, and Louis Williams. Freshmen members include Bob Jenks, who posted a 252 in his first day of practice, Don Glew, John Hartinen, John Leaser, Craig Rice, and John Teague.

Whitney is optimistic about this year’s team. She notes that only one member of last year's squad was lost to graduation and points to the large turnout of freshmen as evidence that this year’s team will be stronger than in 1977-78. Whitney concluded, “Although the team faces a much tougher schedule, I think we will be able to better last year’s record of 16 wins and 6 losses.”

DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR OF ELECTRONIC MERCHANDISE
All Single LP’s $4.99
8 Tracks $5.99
182 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.
LARRY WELLS 669-3403