December 8, 1978

The Case of The Missing Doll, Chapter 1. Theft in the Union

What’s happened to the honor code?
By RICK JENKINS
Staff Writer

The African carving which was allegedly stolen from a College Union art display before Thanksgiving has yet to be recovered, according to Union Director C. Shaw Smith. For the two weeks prior to Thanksgiving break, the African art collection, which was valued between $25,000 and $30,000, was on display in Davidson’s Union Gallery. When time came to return the collection to Charlotte’s Mint Museum on November 13, a costly piece was missing, according to Smith. Valued around $1600, the piece is an antique wood carving of an African figure with a decorated face and straw costume. The object was the first ever to be removed from a Gallery exhibition, Smith said.

The high integrity of the Davidson community has allowed for such displays to usually remain open and unprotected. But the recent incident has broken this faith, according to Smith. “Its disappearance is an uneasy situation for Davidson to cope with—do we make known the theft or do we hush it up?” asked Smith. The removal of the art piece not only places the College in an unnecessary predicament with the Mint Museum and its insurance agency but threatens the likelihood of future displays, he added. Smith said that any information concerning the missing object would be appreciated.

Davidson to act as sponsor for local child abuse center
By HOWARD BROWNE
Staff Writer

CHARLOTTE—In January, Davidson may be given several hundred thousand dollars that it never intends to use. At least it doesn’t intend to spend the money on itself, according to College Trustee Larry Dagenhart, but will instead hold the money for a nascent child abuse center in Charlotte. This is because of a “technicality” in North Carolina’s tax laws which gives a greater tax advantage to educational institutions than private community service organizations, Dagenhart explained. The person donating the money wishes to remain anonymous and wants the money used for the benefit of children. Davidson has agreed to act as one of four sponsors for the organization, which will be known as the Family Support Center.

Y poses no contest
By SHERI GRAVETT
Asst. Editorial Page Editor

The four candidates for YMCA offices are unopposed. Contacted this week, all four stressed they want to get more students involved in the Y’s programs. L.C. Brewster '80, candidate for president, also stresses that the Y is here for students to use. “I'd like people to realize that we can help them get projects going—we are open to new projects and ideas,” Brewster said. Brewster’s previous experience with the Y includes working with the community center, the depot lunch, the ice cream social, and the environmental block. She also has served as YMCA treasurer.

Vice-presidential candidate Anne Stanback ’81 wants to help the Y continue to work as successfully as it has this past year. Stanback has served as block head for the environmental block as well as working with separate YMCA activities. She sees the office of the vice-president as a way to further contribute to the organization’s success.

119 Main Street
Doll houses
Unusual gifts for Christmas
Counted cross stitch
Collector dolls
Miniature furniture
Learn to cross stitch on the spot
892-1663

“As a sponsor we are willing to accept this gift—provided tax ruling is obtained openly and honestly with the North Carolina tax authorities,” Dagenhart said.Carolina Department of Revenue. It won’t be done without a formal ruling in writing from the department,” added Dagenhart. Davidson's Trustees were first approached by the Center in May, 1978. In June the Board voted in favor of helping the Center. “We generally favored the idea and were very interested in having a participating role. The money was incidental,” said Dagenhart. “We will receive the money from the anonymous donor with the request that it will be used for the Family Support Center,” added Dagenhart. He said also that, should the Center fail or fall apart, Davidson would use the money for another cause.

Dagenhart and Mike Booe, vice-president, as a “liaison” between the Y cabinet and the various blocks. “The Y is the most service-oriented of all the organizations on campus,” according to the candidate for secretary Karen Hester ’81, “and that is why it is my favorite to give my time to.” Hester has participated on the Publicity Committee, the Alternate Lifestyles Symposium Committee, and as a STEP tutor. The concern of Elizabeth Medlin ’81, candidate for treasurer, is “to make sure people know where their money is going when they give donations to the Y.”

A volunteer lawyer for the Center said they hope that the receipt of such a large gift will encourage other donations, grants, and possibly, federal funds. “It will give us a track record,” said Booe. He said the money would enable the Center to actively seek donations and would lend more validity to their organization. Booe and Dagenhart expressed hope that Davidson involvement with the Center will encourage faculty and student participation. “We have been given assurances that there will be sufficient opportunities for Davidson students and faculty,” said Dagenhart. He continued, “It is incumbent on institutions like Davidson not only to provide the on-campus educational experiences, but I think, along with that, there needs to be significant opportunities for participation in worthwhile community activities. Davidson best fulfills its purpose when it broadly serves the community in which it finds itself.”

According to a descriptive pamphlet on the Center, it will be based on approaches used in Denver, Colorado at the National Center on Child Abuse. Its four-hour Hotline, a twenty-four hour crisis nursery, and a community educational program. The Center received its start after a task force, set up by Mii Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte to study crime and the church’s role in its prevention, decided that one solution to the crime leap is the prevention of child abuse. Mr. Booe said the group decided, “the way to deal with criminal justice is to deal with child abuse, to treat the disease and not the symptom.”

Saturday, Sunday or able flight after noon. without notice. Or just about anywhere else you’d like to go. For instance, our Round Thrifte3 Fare saves you 30% roundtrip when you return no earlier than the third day following your original date of departure. Piedmont's Weekend Excursion Fare means a 25% roundtrip discount if you leave Saturday and return Monday through the first available flight after noon. Piedmont has five other discount fares to choose from, too. For complete information, call your travel agent or Piedmont Airlines. Major credit cards accepted. All discount fares subject to change. FLY PIEDMONT.