PAC Releases Evaluation Code Draft
By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

In the words of Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann, “the great moment has arrived.” A proposed draft of a
set of codified faculty evaluation procedures, drawn up by Zimmermann, was released to The Davidsonian and distributed to all faculty
members Wednesday. This proposed draft represents an exchange of ideas between college President Samuel R. Spencer, Zimmermann, and the Professional
Affairs Committee (PAC).

This draft is by no means final, but will be subject to changes proposed by faculty members, said Professor of
Physics Robert J. Manning, a member of the PAC. The faculty will hold an open meeting sometime in the future
to discuss the proposed code, according to PAC Chairman Allan Wolf, Professor of Physics.

The proposed draft sets up six criteria which will be used to evaluate faculty members. The first criterion is ‘mastery
of the field taught.’ Among factors to be considered here are publication “with quality being more important than quantity,” participation
in professional societies, and contribution to the college’s intellectual atmosphere. The second criterion is “excellence in curriculum design.” This is
basically an evaluation of the organization and content of the professor’s courses. The third criterion is “skill in communicating knowledge
and in motivating students to learn.” The fourth criterion is “personal concern for students.” This evaluation will include such things
as teacher commitment, availability to students, and ability to act as an advisor. Faculty members will, in their dealings with
students, be encouraged to “help them on an individual basis to realize their full human potential.” The fifth criterion is
“the capacity to exemplify by personal witness the intellectual and moral values for which the college stands.”

The proposed draft reaffirms the Christian commitment of the college and the Statement of Purpose. The preamble of the document
begins by recognizing that “the goal of Davidson’s appointment and evaluation procedures is to recruit, appoint, and retain for the
faculty outstanding men and women who will carry on the college’s mission as set down in the Statement of Purpose.
In essence, this is to develop persons of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character.” The
document states that “Moreover, a church-related college which is faithful to its heritage has the obligation of securing for its
faculty teachers and scholars who, above and beyond their professional commitments, uphold the highest ethical ideals, whose motive is service,
and whose approach to teaching is, in most instances, informed by their commitment as Christians.”

(see PAC, page 3)

Index
1... SAS Sse 1-3
Editorials............ 4-5
Inside Art........... 7-10
Features.......... 6, 11-12
GOED Ss ccc ce cece 13-1
Entertainment......... 16

Vol. LXVII, No. TWENTY-THREE
Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036
April 14, 1978

Weather
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND! Sunshine predicted through Monday with a high pushing temperatures into the low 80s.

SPRING FROLICS was kicked off with an ROTC parachute demonstration last Friday. (Gregg Strader)

New Medical Facility
Duncan Placed on Probation
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

After accepting a plea of guilty, a six-person hearing committee imposed the punishment of probation on Davidsonian Editor Philip Duncan
late Tuesday night. Duncan was accused by Alan Wolf, Professor of Physics and Chairman of the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee
(PAC), of “interference with his right to maintain private possession over the contents of his faculty mailbox.” The case was
prosecuted under the Code of Responsibility.

College Launches Health Plan
By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

As part of a new long-range college health plan spearheaded by the Dean of Students Office, construction workers yesterday used
a yellow bulldozer to scrape out the foundation of a proposed college-owned medical building. The building, which will be located
behind the Center for Special Studies, was designed by Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze in close cooperation with the two
doctors who will work at the Student Infirmary next year.

Scheduled for completion before the opening of school next fall, the entire project is on a tight, fast-paced schedule. “We’re
in a hurry. We've worked on tight schedules before—no problems. We're going to try to do it within six or
eight months if we can,” said Meetze.

Although the Board of Trustees has been tossing around the idea of constructing a medical building since the fall, the
final decision to go ahead with the project was only made recently. “It became a reality a very short time
ago—a month, maybe six weeks ago. I met with the doctors to see what they needed,” said Meetze. Meetze stressed
that even though he took a fairly short while to design the building, this has had no detrimental effects on
the quality.of his work. “I’ve been influenced by the Carolina Inn in the design of it,” he said. The building
is small, containing only about 2500 square feet. “It’ll be less than a hundred thousand dollars,” assured Meetze. When completed,
according to Dean of Students Will Terry, the building will be leased to the doctors for their private practice. The
infirmary will continue to be used for student concerns.

The two doctors said they planned to submit a questionnaire to the student body in a few weeks to find
out the most popular hours for infirmary sick call. One of the two, Dr. Bill Williams, indicated that they will
also ask students to make constructive suggestions for improvement and to critically evaluate the present job being done at the
infirmary. Williams is one of the seven doctors from the Charlotte Memorial Hospital who have worked at the infirmary this
year. He lives in Davidson. The other physician, Dr. Ron Hunt, is presently working in an army hospital and won’t
arrive in town until about the first of July, according to Terry. Both men are Davidson graduates.

“One of the fine things about this new arrangement is that we are bringing two men who know and love
Davidson. They will bring to the community and college a care and concern. We are lucky to have men so
professionally competent and personally fine,” said Terry. Oddly enough, while both doctors were at Davidson their academic extra-curricular lives bore
striking similarities, according to Terry. Among other things, they were both hall counselors, hearing committee chairmen, and members of Phi
Beta Kappa. “It’s amazing that they followed the same track almost exactly,” said Terry. “Both of them are very service-minded
people or they wouldn't have come to a small country town.”

The 1971 Code of Disciplinary Procedures defines probation as “Exclusion from participation in privileged or extracurricular college activities for a
period not exceeding one year.” The penalty will extend over the remainder of Spring Term, requiring him to leave The
Davidsonian until the end of the academic year. Until a meeting of the Media Committee Thursday morning considers the editorial
vacancy, Pamela Camerra will remain acting editor.

Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann completed the final draft of the Code of Faculty Evaluation on March 29. Copies
of the Code were placed in the boxes of PAC members that morning, with Duncan allegedly removing, photocopying, and returning
Wolf's copy that afternoon. Originally, on March 30, Wolf levied the charge under the jurisdiction of the Honor Code. However,
he says he questioned whether the case merited the impact of an Honor violation charge. “That problem always bothered me.
I talked to Will Terry, the members of the PAC, and Hans Watford (the Student Solicitor) about it, relaying the
decision to change it to a Code of Responsibility charge on Friday. I do believe he took something that did
not belong to him and after talking to Hans and several others they convinced me that it was not a
clear cut case for an Honor violation. I wish the decision between the two codes had not been mine.”

The three-hour proceeding was chaired by junior Jamie Watt. The other members were juniors Paul Bradley and Charles Cochran, sophomores
Robert McEwen, Betsy Thomas, and Joseph Summerall, and freshman Greg Burnard. Tuesday’s committee hearing convened with a reading of the
formal charge by Student Prosecutor and Solicitor Hans Watford. Duncan then entered a plea of guilty with extenuating circumstances, continuing
with a description of his actions in relation to the case. He noted that in several different interviews with Zimmermann
and college President Samuel Spencer, he received the impression that a copy of the code would be released to The
Davidsonian. “Spencer and Zimmermann seemed to offer no objections that The Davidsonian have a copy of the Code, but both
were concerned that it go through proper channels (i.e., through the PAC), that it not be sent over (see HEARING,
page 2).”

Davidsonian Editor Philip Duncan officially notified the College Media Board Thursday morning of the Student Hearing Committee's imposition of probation
on him earlier this week for violation of the Code of Responsibility. Under the terms of probation, he will be
barred from extracurricular activities for the rest of the quarter, including work with The Davidsonian. Duncan has ten days in
which to appeal the ruling. “I am contemplating appeal but I have made no final decision.” Any such request would
go before a Review Board composed of Professor of Chemistry Merlin Schuh, Professor of Psychology John Kello, Professor of German
Thomas Pinkerton, and Seniors Jane Perkins and Warren Soule.
