.... The Philip D. Duncan, Editor ~ The Davidsonian G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager Volume LXVII, Number Fourteen January
27, 1978

Why for Christians only?

On campus last weekend were the leaders of the Stuart Scholarship Program, the group that each year sifts through hundreds
of applications from high school seniors before selecting four to receive full $4,755 scholarships to attend Davidson. The scholarship program
was founded last year in honor of Ed Stuart, a multitalented young man who died soon after his graduation from
Davidson in 1956 when his Navy plane was lost over the coast of Florida.

One catch

The lucrative and prestigious scholarships draw the eye of many college-bound high school seniors. But there is one catch: These
important merit-based scholarships are available only to Christians. The Stuart family, not the College, sets the criteria for selection of
Stuart Scholars. These criteria are leadership, scholastic achievement, vigorous outlook, and Christian character. Certainly the family has every right to
establish the criteria they prefer, but it is to me quite unsettling that Davidson College’s most prestigious scholarship program closes
its doors to non-Christians. Last spring, several hundred students protested when a non-Christian was denied a place on the faculty.
Since then, the Trustees have expressed the desirability of obtaining faculty members who “can work with respect for the Christian
tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it.”

In other words, Davidson welcomes non-Christian faculty who respect the College’s Christian orientation, but Davidson’s most prominent scholarship program refuses
to consider non-Christian students. The logic of that situation escapes me.

Unnecessary risk

By denying the Stuart Scholarships to non-Christians, Davidson risks losing two types of students. First, we risk losing all potential
applicants who are non-Christian. Many of these non-Christians are voices of high moral character and religious conviction, and all would
contribute to broadening the perspective of Davidson College. Why should these non-Christians attend a college whose most prestigious scholarship program
treats them as second-class citizens?

Second, Davidson risks losing devoted and conscientious Christians who do not want to attend just another church school, but instead
seek an educational environment in which their faith is challenged (and therefore strengthened) by the exchange of differing religious viewpoints.
The Stuart Program seeks to bring to Davidson outstanding Christian leaders, but because it closes its doors to non-Christians, it
discourages truly outstanding Christians, those who realize that a faith must be challenged if it is to grow.

With gratitude for the generosity that the friends and family of Ed Stuart have shown in setting up the Scholarship
Program, and with admiration for the accomplishments and character of Stuart himself, I respectfully urge the Stuart family and the
directors of the Scholarship Program to reevaluate the criteria for selection of scholars.

Moral character

I ask that a Scholar be selected on the basis of outstanding leadership, scholarship, vigor, and moral character. The change
of criteria, from Christian character to moral character, is not a major one. The floodgates of secularism do not open—the
Scholars will continue to be individuals with a genuine sense of their moral responsibility and a strong commitment to spiritual
dialogue. All, I think, will be people with whom the late Ed Stuart would have been proud to associate.

Avoid provincialism

Keep the criteria as they are now—lock out non-Christians—and Davidson appears in the eyes of the world as a provincial
little college in the North Carolina Piedmont with a clear bias against non-Christians and some rather odd ideas about religious
faith. Change the criteria, however, and the Stuart Scholarship program becomes a vehicle to communicate to students all across the
nation the message that Davidson is a college which welcomes spiritual and religious dialogue from all sides and, unlike many
other secular institutions today, considers this dialogue to be a vital element in a person’s education.

Letters to the Editor

Regarding Devon

To the Editor:

Since my opinion was not solicited when Professor Devon was being evaluated and, more importantly, because that evaluation found her
“not the best possible,” I felt my voice should be added to her support. Through word of mouth I decided
to pick up South Asian Studies 101 and immediately went up to Devon’s office to check it out. “Your main
text,” she said, “will be The Wonder That Was India and I hope by the end of the course, you'll
feel the same way.” She was right. I did a lot of “wondering” that term. Mostly it was my western
mind struggling to interpret the Indian culture.into my own terms, but it did not work. I had to learn to
look at their "doings" through the eyes of the doer, to try and think and see things as an Indian
might. Devon has a way of helping you to make a long step into an Indian perspective. She is at
one moment a knowledgeable professor of Indian Culture and the next an Indian peasant describing the daily joys and hardships
of their lives. These descriptions brought India alive for me. In South Asian Studies 102 our discussions reveal a genuinely
excited professor who demands that we become just as involved. At the start of the course she proposed that the
class determine both the means of evaluation and the areas of Indian culture to be explored. The class, after years
of being handed a syllabus, was hard put to make these decisions and ultimately relied on the professor. In class
Devon does not let her professor role stand as a barrier but blends into the group's discussion as an educated
peer. Anyway, my point is that a professor should be more than just a storage bank of information. Dr. Devon
allows the student room to grow in the classroom, and I feel I have grown. Rather than simply knowing facts
about India, I can begin to understand and appreciate that country’s immense problems and potential. So why did I write
an article outlining why I feel Devon is a good professor? That she is not the "best possible" is sufficient
reason to dismiss half the Davidson faculty. What is the real reason?

Brian Jacobs '79
Davidson College

JYA is not JYOff

To the Editor:

We hope that our last contribution to The Davidsonian was taken in the right light and with a sense of
humor. It has been brought to our attention that if viewed seriously, our caption "Studying hard? We're not!" could be
detrimental to the reputation of the JYA Program. This was not our intention at all. The picture was taken and
the caption submitted in September, before we had even signed up for courses. It is not academically indicative of the
whole year by any means. Junior Year Abroad is not Junior Year Off. It is a challenge in every aspect,
and an invaluable education. There are so many things to learn and experience that could never be encountered in the
Davidson environment. JYA students are not taking a year off from their problems — academic or social. When placed in
a foreign country without familiar supports, one has to deal with the person he or she is as well as
the difficulties of an alien culture. As such, the year abroad is an enlightening and maturing experience. It develops tolerance
and builds confidence in a unique and singular way. Our contribution a few weeks ago was purely a humorous way
of letting you know we are having a good time over here. And yes, these days we are even studying
a good bit.

Nancy Clifton
Margaret Herman
Margie Robertson
[Students JYA in Montpellier]

"Numerous are the academic chairs, but rare are wise and noble teachers. Numerous and large are the lecture halls, but
far from numerous the young people who genuinely thirst for truth and justice. Numerous are the wares that Nature produces
by the dozen, but her choice products are few."

* Albert Einstein

Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
B.J. BARNETT
JIM ENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

News Editors
PAM CAMERRA
CHARLES ERWIN
BARRY SACHTJEN

Features Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Focus Editor
Managing Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH
ANN GARNER
MARSHALL WADDELL

Graphics Editor
Inside Art Editor
Photography Editors
Production Manager
AMANDA HALL
Circulation Manager
IGNATIO LOPEZ

Department assistants:
News — Stephen Gold; Features — Robert Bowie, Esther Bruce; Sports — Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus — Sheri Jackson;
Circulation — Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by students of Davidson College. The newspaper's office
is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148;
subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Second-class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036.
