April 7, 1978, The Davidsonian

UK sends Hogman back to his pen

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

In conclusion, we would like to say that we are sorry for not having an article last week. Don’t worry
about it. We didn’t. We were in the midst of our two-week vacation and had no way to teletype our
article in to the editor. Hogman was in mourning after his beloved Hogs were narrowly upset by the Wildkittens, and
he took off in his old pickup truck for a two-week retreat to the fresh air and sunshine of Hyde’s
Holler, Arkansas. Bernie was also out in St. Louis as he had his picture made for the cover of the
Sporting News. On the way back to Davidson, Bad Bernard was able to stop by the Brushy Mountain State Pen
in Knoxville and visit with some old friends, including James Earl Ray. Refreshed and relaxed, our two resident sports experts
are once again ready to fulfill their ever-pressing duties.

SENIOR NANCY Brown crunches a backhand down the line in a convincing win over her UNCC opponent. (Phil Howerton)

Slate tests Cattes

By LISA JOHNSON
Staff Writer

The Women's Tennis Team, in the midst of its spring season, has compiled a very reputable record while facing tough
competition. Last week they handily defeated Queens and a match with UNC-C was cancelled. Unfortunately, they lost close matches to
Harvard, NC State, Wake Forest, and Furman—all top-notch teams. Their season continues throughout the end of April. Kirk Cameron and
Hope McArn are alternating at the number one position, with Cameron playing it on clay courts and McArn taking the
top position on hard courts. Coach Pat Miller indicates that it is great to have two fine players who can
interchange. “They are an exciting pair to watch,” she exclaimed.

The tennis team always manages to find other rigorous and fun activities and once again they are venturing to the
Chattooga River for a rafting voyage. As usual, no one doubts that they will conquer the river unmercifully as they
do their tennis opponents. Good luck getting Coach Miller on a raft.

The JV team is still going strong as they stunningly defeated Wingate, 9-0, and then lost a tough match to
High Point College. They are extremely pleased that they have had several matches and an opportunity to play this spring
and look forward to the remaining matches against Western Carolina University and Providence Day School. Several of the players commented
that the competitive experience has been very beneficial and they are extremely grateful to Jean Giarusso for guiding them through
the season. Look for the women’s JV to be an even stronger team with more depth next year.

In the world of IMAC softball, things are beginning to take shape and Bernie and Hogman feel that we can
now give you our first legitimate top ten of the season.

BB&H’s TOP TEN:
1. Presto’s Grill
2. Dartus Tunic and the Big 13
3. MacFleet and Stuff
4. The Lizard Kickers
5. The Four Skins
6. Old Men
7. We Funk
8. Big T and the Oxytocins
9. Up and Coming
10. Charlie’s Angels

Possible Breakthroughs—Ragmen, Pikes Once, Cannonballs, Whizz Kids.

In last week’s action, Presto’s Bar and Grill porked their way into our number one spot by taking two impressive
wins over the Old Men and the Longest Yard. The Bar and Grill may have the best player in IMAC
with shotgun shortstop Dave Vaughan. We're glad that Dave finally found something at which he is good, because he is
ugly and doesn’t have many friends. Jack Griffith also reported that he has been playing exceptionally well and wanted to
say hello to his parents down in Commerce, Ga.

Our number two spot was clinched by the Big 13 from Dartus Tunic (ask a pre-med what it means). Steve
Sellers has established himself as the best pitcher in the league and has a 1.03 ERA to prove it. DT
took two close ones last week, a 10-0 squeaker over the NADS and...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the
original meaning and punctuation:

---

A 23-2 struggle from the Horse’s Mouth. Our number three spot goes to MacFleet and Stuft, a jovial group of
youngsters. These may edge Sellers out for the BB&H Cy Young award. John Ratliff is the team fairy and a
pretty good shortstop as well. In their big game of the week, MacFleet edged past the VISTA.

If you are the kind of person who can adapt and has the willingness to help solve some of the
problems in the U.S. and if you have a strong commitment to help people in need, VISTA NEEDS YOU.

NEW PROGRAMS
More opportunities to volunteer with backgrounds in LIBERAL ARTS, architecture and planning, business, construction, education, health services, LAW, and social
work.

VISTA FACTS
Requirements:
- 18 years of age or over
- U.S. Citizen or permanent resident
- Must meet medical and legal criteria

Compensation:
- Monthly allowance for food, lodging, incidentals
- Stipend of $50 per month usually payable at completion of service
- Medical care
- Optional life insurance at minimum rate
- Personal satisfaction and career development

INTERVIEWS: 1-800-241-3862
VISTA — Volunteers In Service To America

Cannonballs in extra innings, 14-2. The Lizard Kickers are the sleeper team of the year. We don’t know anything about
them, but they must be good or they wouldn’t be ranked number four. At position five, we find the Four
Skins who deflated Pikes Once, 4-2, in their big game of the week.

The Old Men, our number six team this week, is a most curious conglomeration of wasted athletes. Dave Shi, the
demon of the disco, is the backbone of this band of moaners and raggers. Bobby Avinger, the silver avenger, has
a marginal propensity to consume fly balls and some of his hits look like flat average cost curves. Luckily, the
team can hide him at short fielder.

The We Funk ball club is led by team mascot Sammy Steadmans, who has finally learned how to run the
bases in the proper order. This team’s claim to fame is a 9-7 victory over our number eight team, Big
T and the Oxytocins. Rounding out our top ten are Up and Coming (9) and Charlie’s Angels (last). The Angels
are led by the Maitland Flash, Danny Hock, and Jonesboro Jumping Jack, Andrew McDon. These youngsters will attempt to prove
that you can dribble a softball.

In the world of volleyball, several teams have emerged as contenders. Jay’s Coneheads, Slauol, and the Bong’s Last Chance appear
as if they may be the teams to beat. Our in-depth look at volleyball will be out sometime in July,
and the tournament will probably already be over seeing that school ends in May, so we probably won’t even do
an in-depth look at volleyball.

The annual Bad Bernard and Hogman Backgammon tournament is set for the week of April 17-21. The entry fee is
one dollar and all the money will go to the ‘Send Bernie to Brooklyn Fund.’ If interested, please contact Bernie
in D135 or at the SAE House, or Hogman at the KA house. The tournament is limited to the first
64 people that get their dollars in. It was a big affair last year so be sure not to miss
out.

That’s about all for now. Just remember if you can’t do anything else, you can always GBO.

Baseball—10-9
Men’s Tennis—47-3
Wake Forest 5, Davidson 4
Davidson 8, Harvard 1
Davidson 8, UT-C 0
Davidson 9, Marshall 0
UT-C 5, Davidson 0
Davidson 6, Citadel 3
Davidson 8, Elon 3
Davidson 7, High Point 2
Elon 5, Davidson 3
N.C. State 9, Davidson 0
Davidson 10, Warren Wilson 1

Women’s Tennis 5-4
Track—4-1
N.C. St. 6, Davidson 3
Appalachian 132, Davidson 43
Furman 5, Davidson 4
Davidson 43, Davidson 9, Queens 0
Emory & Henry 26, Davidson 9, UNCC 0

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
CHOICE WINGS

Bearp Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
