A _ September 15, 1978 t The Davidsonian

Bonehead picked to replace Hogman by BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

Greetings, and welcome to another year of odious and live reporting. As most of you already know, Hogman departed last Spring and has apparently gone wherever Hog-people go once they graduate. Once The Davidsonian Sports Staff heard he was leaving, they immediately ran in all the local places. The Davidsonian wishes to thank both of the people that applied for the job, and would like to announce that Bonehead, a 6'1" juco player from Florida, will fill this most prestigious spot. If any of our readers wish more information on Bonehead’s background, just drop a postcard to “The Bonehead Story, Box 4, Davidson” before midnight tonight.

When Bonehead was notified of his selection he delivered the following statement: “I think it is important that we return a sense of integrity to this column and quit talking so much crap.” When Bernie was finally reached in his flat in Brooklyn and asked for a comment about his new cohort, Bernie replied, “Well, it just goes to show you that it’s always something.” Thank you, Bernie and Bonehead.

The format of our column has had to change a little this year because we are kind of cramped for space. The major cut has been in the area of women’s sports and we would like to apologize for not being able to sustain the fine reporting we did in that area last year. Nevertheless, we will still try to work them in as usual. One note to the freshmen who are reading this column for the first time, don’t worry if you don’t understand any of it because it wasn't written for you anyway. Don't despair however, chances are that if you do something wrong, you will be recognized.

And now on to flickerball, that great fall festivity. The 1978 season appears to be brewing up as the best one ever, but no matter how good it will be, we will still be missing some of the great names in flickerball. Gone forever are the Bongs...those red-eyed rascals with that funny smell about them. Gone are the Whizz Kids...with Murray, Punt, Tex, and RoRo. And finally and most importantly, gone are 37 lettermen from KA#1 team...a team that ruled the flickerball domain with an iron grip for two years.

It is interesting and even fun to look at the past; but as a 10.2 bowl team returns intact. Stan Brown and Daze were lost to graduation, however, that can only be. not already said? A. Wilson, D. Hock, A. McDonald and others will add speed to the line-up. One minus, however, is that team speedster Carl McFrail (9.4 100 yd.) has been sidelined with a knee injury until next year. Look for the E's to go 11-0.

(2) McFleet and Stuff. If anyone defeats the E-Baggers it will be McFleet. This team, composed entirely of seniors except for one juvenile, has gone undefeated for the past three regular seasons. Team Captain Johnny Stroud has once again nailed down the tailback spot and the starting rotation at the halfbacks will be Chip Carter, Bill McKinley, Curtus Leathers, and Chris Fresinger. The defense has been strengthened by the addition of free agent Dave “Disco” Shi. Shi, who teaches as a sideline in the off-season, reported that “Hey I’m just glad to be here.” Experience is the key in flickerball.

JUNIOR PETE SLUITER displays excellent ball control as he brushes past a helpless Wofford defender. The Cats hope to make it two in a row today when they face Florida Tech at home. (Irv Wilson)and McFleet has plenty of that. We say 11-1 here and a tip to Miami. (3) KA#1. The KA Gold will attempt to continue a championship from years ago. Ron Rosenberg is at tailback, Jack Davis at halfback, and Steve "Mouse" Sellers will scurry over the field from the other halfback position. Rob Hull, former War Kiwi standout, who captains a new but talented defense, recently made these comments to Bonehead, "We should have a good defense. Several of our players have two years or more of experience in the ROTC program. We should be able to stop attacks both on the ground and in the air." Look for the Gold to go 8-2 and maybe the Sugar. (4) Up and Coming. Alex Evans is back from wherever the hell he went last year and will team with Jimmy Lytle and Jeff Lyle somewhere on the field. We better mention Barry and Tucker. These youngsters are at best 7-4 and are headed to the Peach, Gator. (5) Big Boa and the Trouser Snakes. Appears to be just another SPE team and we felt we needed to mention them for PR reasons. (8) King Tony and the Tuts. This is the highest rank given to any of the frosh halls, but we believe that if Tony Langley's performance in the talent show is any indicator of what this hall has, then even the big frat teams may be hurting. (9) The Hole. This hall, another frosh one, has the twin towers, Jamie Hall and Skip Brown. When these two guys split wide, they make even Harold Carmichael look small. (10) The New Orleans Saints. Manning returns, but may lose the job to Bobby Scott. Chuck Muncie will help the backfield, but there are too many gaps on defense for this team to be a contender. 3-11. Well, that’s all the #&8'!!1 we have this week. Why is Sam Currin? Later.

Booters notch win by SKIP BARKLEY - Staff Writer

Davidson Soccer got off on the right foot last Friday by defeating Wofford in their opening game by a score of 2-1. Joel Shirk and C.K. Nichols scored goals for the Cats in their win over the Terriers. The victory was an especially sweet one since the team suffered through a winless season last year. Coach Karl Kremser was enthusiastic about the "great effort and intensity" which the team displayed, but felt that there was much room for improvement. Kremser allowed that inexperience and nervousness were definitely factors, as well as the fact that five to seven freshmen played a substantial portion of the game. In addition to inexperience, Kremser stressed the team’s need to gain more experience with the concepts and tactics which he has been teaching them. "Their knowledge of them is good, but they are still awkward and need some polish which will come with game experience." Kremser emphasizes that his primary concept is team unity and coordination on the field. "Individually we can be beaten but collectively we will be tough to beat."

Tri-Captain Joel Shirk agreed with Coach Kremser’s analysis of the team’s development and himself pointed out the importance of playing together versus playing as individuals. "Last year we depended on 2 or 3 players to get things happening. This year we're counting on all eleven players to get involved."

This Thursday at 4:00 p.m. the Wildcat Soccer team faces Florida Institute of Technology followed by a 2:00 p.m. Saturday match with strong Duke of the Atlantic Coast Conference. Both matches are at home. The team enters the Thursday match with plenty of optimism and some newfound confidence from their win over Wofford. "Winning was new to us," conceded Shirk who added, "We weren’t quite sure what to do."