December 1, 1978

Swimmers rely on depth for season

By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

Despite the loss of last year’s talented workhorse, Jonathan Washburn, the 1978-79 edition of the Davidson swimming team could be the strongest in school history. The squad recorded a fourth-place finish in the Southern Conference meet last year. A talented freshman class coupled with a strong group of returning upperclassmen may allow the Wildcats to improve upon that finish.

Leading the upperclassmen will be junior Mark Tommerdahl, who primarily swims the butterfly. Tommerdahl also will be counted upon for some freestyle and individual medley work.

Senior John Frederick, juniors Steve Yood and Steve Risley, and sophomores Ed Imbrogno, Ed Trumbull, and Ray Craven will provide depth in the freestyle events.

Other upperclassmen in the stroke events include junior Tom Spangler, sophomore Ralph Mosca, and senior Skip Barkley in the backstroke. Along with junior Kirk Williams in the butterfly, sophomore Pete Neefus will compete in diving.

Eleven freshmen are listed on the team’s 23-man roster. These newcomers will help compensate for the loss of Washburn.

The frosh swimmers gave notice of their prowess on Saturday, accounting for eight of the nine first-place finishes in the team’s black-red intrasquad meet. Moreover, the winning medley and freestyle relay teams were composed of three freshmen each. A further indication of the class’ talent was freshman Paul Voight’s record-breaking effort in the 100-yard freestyle event. Freshmen Craig Allen, Warren Beck, Keith Riddle, Mike Schremmer, and Craig Finger also made a big splash in the inter-squad meet. Other freshmen team members include Mark Hammond, Tom Marshburn, Tony Smith, John Verdi, and Rick Williams.

Coach Pat Miller looks for an exciting season due to an extremely tough schedule.

“We think this is going to be a good season. We've got a lot of talented people back. In the past, we usually have relied on one or two good swimmers. This time it’s more spread out,” Miller added.

Madison, The Citadel, William and Mary, and Appalachian State highlight the stiff schedule for the team. The Wildcats will host some of their home meets in UNCC’s pool this year in order to have adequate diving facilities. Miller asks that anyone interested in being a timer for these meets to contact her. “Students’ support will be helpful in ensuring a good season,” Miller concluded.

The Cats open their 1978-79 season against Pfeiffer on December 5. Saturday, the Wildcats host UNC-Wilmington in Charlotte.

Gunners aim high

By CRAIG RICE
Staff Writer

Facing a much tougher schedule, this year’s Davidson riflery squad has its work cut out in order to better last year's record.

Most of the rifle team’s matches are quarter courses, which consist of shooting one target worth 100 points for a possible match score of 300.

Although ten members from each team shoot, only the top five scores are counted in the team’s total.

Davidson opened its season on October 28, with a win over Wake Forest. The team was led by Katherine Whitney, who posted the top match score of 275. Strong support also came from John Parham (270), Tom Niblock (253), Robbie Kirkendol (248), and Pat Stuart (251).

The following Saturday, Davidson played host to six teams in the first Western Carolina Conference match. Although Appalachian State led the field with 1349 points, Davidson (1310) posted wins over Wofford, Clemson, Wake Forest, and Presbyterian College. With 270 points, Whitney took an individual 4th while Parham's 265 placed 7th and Kirkendol’s 264 took 8th in a field of 60 shooters. In addition, Niblock’s 268 and Stuart's 253 were scored in Davidson’s top five.

Also shooting in the match for Davidson were Reed Ellis (246), Craig Rice (244), Louis Williams (241), and John Hartman (225).

Whitney, team captain, is pleased with the team’s performance, especially noting the team score of 1310 was one of the highest scores ever posted by Davidson at a match.

She added, “I was scared at the beginning of the year that the team might not do well, but I’m really excited with the scores of the last two matches.”

In its next match, the rifle team will face the University of Tennessee on December 9, trying to better the Wildcats’ record of five wins and one loss.

STUART is the epitome of concentration as he focuses in on the bullseye. The team’s next match is December 9 against the University of Tennessee.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

GENERAL CONTRACTORS

P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer

J. L. MULLIS
Executive Vice President and Secretary