ha saan Heo as nv hace the Davidson field hockey team very active. Three important games have boosted their final record: Practically the team had practices in preparation for the Deep South Last Lape Wibibaly. Davidson challenged Furman in what Gray Gilchrist called a “grudge match. Furman beat us last year and their coach used to come to head the Davidson team.” The Cats met the challenge and beat Furman by a score of 2-0. Kirk Cameron and Cathy Inabnet provided the needed goals in a well-played team effort.

Last Friday, the squad faced Converse with some nervous apprehensions. Injuries had brought the team down to the minimum of eleven players, leaving no available substitutes. In spite of such an unfortunate situation, the team banded together with the goalie.

Tuesday brought Appalachian to Davidson and judging from the game statistics of both teams, the excitement among all the players was high as co-captain Ann Clark admitted prior to the game, “I’ve been psyched for two months to play them.” At the start of the game, the team all toasted the seniors as this was their last game of the regular season. Red roses were given to co-captain Kirk Cameron, Jamie Watt, Lea Pittenger, and Margaret Herman. This type of excitement held up through the entire game. Previous game records showed that Appalachian had lost in overtime to Chapel Hill by 1-0 while Chapel Hill had beat Davidson 4-0. Yet the Cats played their best game of the season yesterday in a 1-0 loss to Appalachian. The match was solid proof of their continual improvement since the Chapel Hill game.

The first half was closely played between both teams. During most of the second half, however, Davidson came back stronger and aggressive to dominate the game with our offense keeping the ball on the attack. Although the team finally allowed Appalachian a goal, the players were proud of the way they had played. Perhaps the most notable aspect of the Appalachian game was not directly on the field, but on the sidelines. This game brought out more fan support than has ever been witnessed at a women’s sport competition at Davidson. The hill was packed with fans and seemed to illustrate just how far women’s sports have come at Davidson in such a short time.

Though the regular season is now complete, the Cats will venture to Furman this weekend for the Deep South Hockey Tournament. There they will play Duke, Wake Forest, and Winthrop. Individual players will go through all-star selections for the regionals.

Guilford stuns sleeping Cats
By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson’s middle guard Svend Pedersen summed up last Saturday’s Guilford game very well: “Guilford really came at us. But we played poorly. The defense played very poorly. We weren’t ready and they were.” Over-confidence was a problem for the Wildcats in the Lion’s Club Charity game. Comparative scores indicatedThat Davidson would win handily over the Guilford Quakers. Davidson had beaten Randolph-Macon 42-0 and Guilford lost to Randolph-Macon 27-0. After Saturday night’s game, the scoreboard was lit up with an entirely different story. Guilford won 42-35. This week the Wildcats will be going into the Furman game at Greenville, S.C., as an underdog. This game is possibly the biggest challenge of the year.

Davidson Coach Ed Farrell lauded this week’s opponent by saying, “They (the Furman Paladins) have a good balance of offense and defense. Their running game is a good, steady one and they also pass the ball well. They are not flashy but are very basic and sound.”

Before the season began, Lehigh and Furman were seen as the toughest games of the season. Davidson staged a furious comeback a few weeks ago against Lehigh but failed to come up with the last-second touchdown that would have won the game. Davidson dropped that game by a score of 27-21. The Bucknell Bisons were also seen as one of the year’s best opponents. Davidson also lost that one in the closing seconds at Richardson Field by a 21-20 score. Ironically, the 'Cats have played their toughest opponents enthusiastically and lost by close margins while losing some of the ones they were supposed to win.

The Wildcats will need a very enthusiastic effort Saturday as they play Furman for the first time since 1973. The Paladins lead the series 29-15-0. Furman had a 42-12 win over Marshall to extend the season record to 5-3. Davidson fell to 4-4 after the loss to Guilford.

Last Saturday night started off badly for Davidson when Wildcat John Porter fumbled the opening kickoff. The Quakers took advantage of this break to score first and went on to up their halftime lead to 28-19. Guilford came back in the second half to add another seven points and took a 35-19 lead. The Davidson passing game led the Cats back into the game. With the throwing of Al Rhyne, who passed for a total of 279 yards on eleven of 25 passes, the Cats knotted the score at 35-35 with 11:51 left on the clock.

Guilford’s running game proved to be the difference in the game. The Quakers pecked away 256 yards with 56 rushing attempts. The passing game for Guilford was also very successful. The Quakers picked up 192 yards by completing 15 of 20 passes. After Page Walley had tied the game with a plunge from the one-yard line and Rhyne hit Gifford Piercy for a two-point conversion, the Quakers did what they had to do to win the game. They constructed a 14-play, 75-yard drive that ate five minutes off the clock and picked up the winning score. Davidson came back 41 yards with a closing drive but failed to score before time ran out.