DAVIDSON DEBATERS

Maria Patterson, Nancy Warren, Jimmy Prappas, and Tommy Thompson butted heads Tuesday night in Eu Hall. At issue was whether Davidson should have a sex-blind admissions policy. Patterson and Warren, taking the affirmative, won the heated debate.

Debaters question admissions policy
By J. W. ARETINO
Staff Writer

WOMAN—[adj.]—An animal usually living in the vicinity of man, and having a rudimentary susceptibility to domestication... The species is the most widely distributed of all the beasts of prey, infesting all habitable parts of the globe... The woman is lithe and graceful and can be taught not to talk.
-A. Bierce

Resolved: That Davidson College should adopt a "sex-blind admissions" policy.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Affirmative
Marie Patterson
Nancy Warren
vs.
Negative
Jimmy Prappas
Tommy Thompson

After an hour of back-biting, arm-waving, open-mouthed, babbling harangue, the shrews managed to defeat the gallant, ungirded knights of oratory in a decision that was racked with controversy—no one could understand why the decision was not unanimous.

Basically, the debate boiled down to one important issue—what should be the goal of Davidson College in its admission policy?

After citing current and recent statistics on admissions, Warren indicted the present system of admissions, claiming that the arbitrary quotas set by the trustees are "unjustified and pernicious." A goal was set by the affirmative team of admitting the best-qualified students of either sex. A healthier social attitude coupled with a stronger student body academically were two important advantages claimed by the affirmative in their policy proposition. The arbitrary nature of the present admissions policy was the deep-seated problem according to the affirmative analysis. "With the changing role of women in society," the link between college education and career choice was presented by the affirmative, shoring up their position even further.

The negative did manage a couple of good arguments. Prappas questioned the compatibility of balance and a healthy social situation by pointing out the pendulum could swing too far in the other direction if too many women were admitted, thus raising a problem of internal coherence in the affirmative presentation. Thompson also pointed out the "unwritten credos" of the trustees which are periodically handed down from Mount Sinai for our further edification.

Behind the inherency considerations and solvency analysis lies a very important issue facing the college; an issue that demands attention, study, and honesty; an issue that isn’t simply going to go away. Debate and discussion is a healthy mode of examination and study. Perhaps in light of the past and in prospect for the future, discussions like these, fun yet thought-provoking, will truly become a part of the policy-making process at Davidson. Such a goal can only further the ideals of the school and make them truly relevant and applicable.

The Davidsonian

Lou Reed blends jazz, rock
By ROBERT BOWIE
Staff Writer

"I do Lou Reed better than anybody else." This line, muttered by Reed himself somewhere amid the patter on his new album "Take No Prisoners," says a lot about rock stars and the public posturing that makes up the American institution of "celebrities."

Like his mentor Andy Warhol, Reed perfects the art of "chit-chat" which lies at the heart of this record. Reed started out over ten years ago with a brilliant first LP called "The Velvet Underground and Nico." Warhol produced the album and, with his usual modesty, signed his name to the entire work. Readers of the fine print on the inside could discover that Reed and a man by the name of John Cale had written all the songs. Reed had freshly dropped out of college; his lyrics were filled with the light cynicism of his teacher, the late Delmore Schwartz. Cale had the greater musical background of the two; he had studied under the prestigious composer Jannis Xenakis and has since gone on to record with Terry Riley. Together, they launched a frontal attack on the sentimentality of '60s rock: Reed spat out the words in a flat, unemotional voice, while Cale introduced the...Atonality that makes so much modern music sound distressing to housewives and other Philistines. With the breakup of The Velvet Underground, Reed lost the group of musicians he had learned to improvise with and his records descended into the drivel of the "average rock record." Transformer was largely the work of producer David Bowie; Rock and Roll Animal showed Reed posing as an obviously false Frankenstein figure to sell more records. Sally Can't Dance reaches the low point of being churned out to fulfill a recording contract. Reed had sold out and knew it. Time had come to get vengeance on RCA and the hype that had been handed out with each concert. Metal Machine Music comes close to claiming the rare title of the worst piece of music ever recorded. As far as I can tell, the whole thing consists of feedback being run through a series of different speakers. He was soon relieved of his RCA contract and the constant demand to make another "hit." Relocated at Arista, Reed settled down to once again play music the way he wanted to. Take No Prisoners cannot be called a very polished album; comments from the audience intrude into the middle of every song, and Reed often seems to deliberately destroy any "poetic quality" one could attach to his words. Reed’s work at Arista is closer to jazz than rock, and it is inspiring for Reed to take such a new direction in his music. Unfortunately, Reed overdoes his vocals in many places and seems more concerned with talking to the audience than playing.

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

If the 900 Room crowds for Strohs freebies are any indication, Davidson students love a bargain. And in a town as small as Davidson, bargains are limited. Davidson students will be shocked to learn, then, that the largest flea market in the Southeast is only eighteen miles away, on Highway 115 just beyond the famous Fox Theatre. To call the Sunday afternoon gathering a flea market, however, is an injustice. Of course, there are the usual old clothes and accumulations of junk that one always associates with neighborhood garage sales, but for the most part, the items for sale are quality merchandise and antiques that go for low prices. Students who wish to furnish dorm rooms inexpensively, yet impressively, should check out this affair. Repossessed La-Z-Boy recliners go for forty dollars and less. Attractive costume jewelry that would normally cost a pretty penny at Eastland Mall can be purchased for half the expense at this showing. The jewelry is not all cheap, though. One merchant displayed a thirty-carat diamond brooch with a six-carat emerald that he would be willing to part with for $75,000. He swore that the same article from Ellman’s would sell for $50,000 more. One vendor specialized in Elvis memorabilia. In addition to candles, posters, and records, he sold plaster busts of the King that must have weighed a hundred pounds apiece. One striking characteristic of the busts was a hole to insert flowers in Elvis’ folded hands. An old lady supplied comic relief to weary floor walkers in one of the four buildings. She was aggressively selling all back issues of Playboy for fifty cents apiece. Next to her was a merchant specializing in old gramophones of the type on RCA Records’ logo. Old "cathedral" style clocks sold from four dollars to several hundred. Chewing tobacco posters of the variety found at crossroads stores brought a handsome price, as did anything that had Coca-Cola on it. One character was even asking fifty cents for each empty beer can of unheard-of brands, and he had literally hundreds of them. The best thing about shop-

(see Shop, page 11)

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
MOORESVILLE, N.C.