The Davidsonian

MOTT ND. rar

Special grants received

Davidson College has received $220,000 in special grants from the Duke Endowment for projects in 1978-79, ranging from faculty salaries to solar energy. “The continuing support of the Duke Endowment since its establishment in 1924 has been one of Davidson's most important sources of strength over the years,” said Davidson President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. “In a substantial way, Davidson today is an embodiment of Mr. James B. Duke’s generosity through the Endowment.”

The largest portion of the $220,000 is $150,000 for faculty and staff compensation and development. The funds will be used primarily to offset losses in purchasing power caused by inflation, Spencer said.

Library misses microfilm

An inventory taken over spring break revealed that a large number of microfilms were missing from the library. The missing reels included several issues each of The Davidsonian and The Charlotte Observer. Director of the Library Leland Park commented, “What someone would do with them without a reader, I can’t imagine. Nevertheless, we will probably, for a while at least, lock all the cases and have students ask for access to the cases.”

Contributors: Dennis McLawhorn and U.U. News Service.

Burts accounts for course enigma

(Continued from page 1)

A third factor is that course ceilings may be generally lower. According to Burts, “It might be true, but I don’t know it to be true. It is true that in the history department ceilings were 40 and are now 30.” However, Burts felt that though ceilings may be lower, they are not as rigid and strict. Burts said, “Now the department controls who goes in.” Burts termed ceilings a “departmental problem.”

In an effort to counteract these problems, Burts wrote a memorandum to department chairmen before spring break saying, “Don’t be surprised at pressure during add/drop. Be generous with ceilings. Direct students to less popular courses.” In conjunction with Vice President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann, Burts also started the new procedure for registering for labs. Although there are still problems, Burts feels, “We’ve worked out the major bugs.” Since the procedure was instituted just prior to registration, non-science departments did not know about it until after they had scheduled their courses.

The College is also attempting to reduce the student-faculty ratio by increasing the faculty. Spencer said, “We are gradually doing this year by year, probably at the rate of one or two a year.”

Possible solutions would be to spread out professors’ absences or to teach more of the popular courses, although with the drawbacks of the latter, “it’s really a delicate question” as Burts put it. Burts also suggested, “This is highly speculative, but possibly there should be more directing of when courses should be taught by the administration.” However, these policy changes would be up to department chairmen and Zimmermann. Zimmermann could not be reached for comment because of illness this term.

Independent Study, Extended Studies, 301’s and 401’s are helping to relieve the shortage of courses. However, this is overburdening some professors. In the English department, most professors have five individual project-type courses where normally they should have only two. Asked if a significant number of students will be left with only two courses after add/drop, Burts replied: “Based on past experience, the answer is no. They’ll find something somewhere. I don’t think we’ll find it a real problem. There are still a lot of places in a lot of good courses.” Also, Burts foresees a loosening up of ceilings by the end of this week. But, he emphasized, “we need several approaches to this problem. No one of these things is a solution. I think we need to continue to work.”

Presidential race continues

(Continued from page 1)

able to attend Davidson.”

In the area of athletics, Brown said he would like to see “a much greater emphasis on women’s sports and the lesser sports. They are lacking in the areas of personnel and facilities, especially in comparison with other major intercollegiate sports,” he explained. Brown also wants to see improvement in the recreation facilities for the general student body.

Brown plans to investigate overcrowding problems on Patterson Court. He added that “the Senate should decide guidelines for the use of Richards and Bailey Houses before they are vacated for the new Commons. This should be well thought out in advance.” Brown also hopes to get student input into the admissions process as well as into decisions on faculty tenure. “Emphasis on security, faculty-student relations, and course evaluations will continue,” said Brown. “I plan to continue the good work we’ve done so far, as well as expand the scope of Senate activities.”

Brown plans to establish “clear-cut and published goals” for committees in order to increase Senate efficiency. He commended past Senate administrations for having been “very efficient.” “We have good guidelines to work on,” he added. “With my experience, the above are all realizable goals,” Brown concluded.

Langley characterized her campaign with the words “leadership, efficiency, and motivation.” “I seea leader as someone who serves the people and ...VP hopefuls vie [Continued from page 1]

"The Senate hasn’t done a bad job," says Jackson, "in fact, it has done quite well under Tham Rut it Vauna could do a little better." Peeples has served in the Senate on the faculty-student relations committee, the Patterson Court Committee, and as co-chairman of the Housing Committee. Although he is no longer in the Senate, he heads its "bad check" committee. Because the role of the Vice-President "is not clearly defined" in the SGA by-laws, Peeples sees the job as that of a "garbage collector." The Vice-President must deal with a lot of paperwork and "it’s going to take more hard work than anything else," says Peeples. Since he has "no large commitments," he feels that he has enough time to devote to the job. If elected, Peeples would like to place two students in an advising post at meetings of the Board of Trustees. He does not foresee voting privileges for these students. Peeples also wants to promote more SGA-sponsored events which stimulate faculty-student interaction. On Patterson Court, he would like to push for the construction of the Commons and the release of Richards and Bailey to upper-class eating houses in the near future. He sees the need for fraternities to be given the right to extend bids or else follow pure self-selection because, Peeples says, "I am tired of this wishy-washy business."

Stiefel believes that student government "should be a fun thing." He sees a great need to get more students involved and plans to do this through the Senate newsletter and increased visitations. He wishes to improve relations with the trustees in cooperation with a strong President by continuing student receptions. He would like to further investigate problems such as dorm overcrowding and the reason why 400 students received less than three classes during registration this spring. Stiefel wants to initiate a letter-writing campaign by students to inform future applicants about Davidson. 

He says that the Vice-President should work with the admissions office to develop greater diversity among the student body. Most importantly, Stiefel feels that he can offer "enthusiasm, interest, and a positive outlook" to this position. Despite having served as President of his freshman class and senator from his sophomore class, he thinks that "experience is not a key factor" as much as "a willingness to listen to people." He emphasizes keeping a realistic focus on campaign goals and sees the need for meetings between students and candidates for future elections. "That’s what I’ve tried to do in the Senate."

Langley cited her work in providing rides to the airport as an example. She also helped put together a resource file on Mecklenburg County for the Union. Langley was a member of a committee which investigated Davidson’s overcrowding problem "from the eating houses to parking to the library." The final report was given to the Trustees and played a role in limiting the student body to 1300 and beginning plans for the new Commons, she said. Langley has served as President of her freshman and sophomore classes, as a junior senator, and has chaired several committees. From her three years’ experience as a senator, Langley pointed out the advantage in "still seeing things from ground level." "I realized that the most important thing is for the senators to be motivated and enthusiastic," Langley said. She emphasized the importance of the President’s delegation of authority. "There’s no way in the world I can do everything on campus. That’s why we have senators," she explained. "If a President doesn’t try to do everything himself, it’s beneficial to the Senate, students, and faculty alike."

Langley wants to re-establish the Inter-Organizational Forum. "It has proved effective in the past and it would help coordinate campus activities and help us avoid working against each other." Langley noted a need for greater student-faculty cooperation. "When students and faculty join forces we can get a lot more done." She referred to the tenure issue as "a baby step forward" and speculated another "step" could be made in the area of faculty evaluations. To increase student motivation, Langley named several options the Senate might pursue. "I would like to see greater student involvement in the advisory councils with representatives drawn from all aspects of the student body." "There should be more student input into the Senate," said Langley. "People are not aware they’re welcome to come to the meetings." Langley has found that the Senate visitations have a tendency to be negative. She explained that the visitations usually collect only problems and complaints. Langley hopes to see more positive input come out of them. Langley hinted at an idea for "task forces for student involvement." "The big job of the SGA President," said Langley, "is to express the student voice." "It is especially important in the role as a member of the Council for Campus and Religious Life and with the Academic Vice-President," she said. "They should know how the students feel," she expressed.