Spring Convocation Features Wellford

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Last year there were two gatherings during Spring Awards Convocation. While the formal event was taking place in Love Auditorium, approximately 300 students and faculty members boycotted outside in protest of the College Administration’s decision not to hire Professor of Political Science Ronald Linden, a Jew. Assistant to the President Gary Barnes, who is planning this year’s Convocation, expects no diversions and believes the day will run smoothly.

This year the Convocation address will be delivered by writer and politician William Harrison Wellford, a member of Davidson’s class of 1962. Wellford earned an M.A. from Cambridge as a Marshall and Danforth Fellow. He holds a Ph.D. from Harvard and a Doctor of Jurisprudence degree from Georgetown University. In the early 1970s, he was appointed Executive Director of the Center for the Study of Responsive Law and he has written numerous books and articles on pollution and the environment. His works include the book "Sowing the Wind: Food Safety and Chemical Harvest," published in 1972.

Wellford served as chief legislative assistant to the late Senator Philip A. Hart (D. Michigan) from June 1973 until September 1976. He headed the government reorganization team. On February 21, 1977, Wellford was designated Executive Associate Director for Reorganization and Management of the Office of Management and Budget. He was responsible for Federal regulatory policy, management improvement, and reorganization.

College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. asked Wellford to come to Davidson and direct his comments on the Carter Administration and on his activities. “He should be very interesting,” said Barnes.

Awards will also be presented to the students during Convocation. The majority of these awards will be presented to members of the senior class. The Thomas Jefferson Award, the only faculty award, will be presented to the professor who the faculty believes “has given of himself generously and well beyond the normal call of duty.”

Of the five men who will receive honorary degrees at this year’s convocation, all but one graduated from Davidson. The recipients of honorary degrees are chosen through a joint process of the Board of Trustees and the faculty. A committee is set up to prepare a list of possible recipients. This list is then presented to the faculty for their scrutiny. The list the faculty approves is then taken to the Board of Trustees for their final ratification.

The Honorary degree recipients for Spring Awards Convocation of 1978:
- John Akers, former president of Akers Motor Lines and American Trucking Association, a 1928 graduate of Davidson.
- John Baker, senior partner of Reynold’s Securities, New York, a 1925 alumnus.
- Romare Bearden, “Dean of America’s Black Artists,” born in Charlotte, North Carolina, and now regarded as America’s foremost black painter. An exhibition of his works will open in Chambers Art Gallery on April 10.
- Charles Myers, former president and board chairman of Burlington Industries, a 1933 alumnus.
- Benjamin Thurman, a leading U.S. chemist in vegetable oils and the holder of 80 patents; graduated from Davidson in 1910.

Following the Convocation ceremony, there will be a luncheon on Richardson Plaza. Barnes said that Wellford and the earlier Davidson alumni “present a good contrast for Davidson students to see what these men have done after graduating from Davidson.”

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
Volume LXVII, Number TWENTY
March 31, 1978

Academic VP Citizens Approved

By SALLIE SUMMEY
Staff Writer

“The attraction of having a retirement community near a college is that senior citizens can participate in the cultural activities and events of the college,” said Davidson President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.

The Trustees recently approved a recommendation for 25-30 acres of a college-owned 96-acre tract of land near Highway 73 to be sold for the establishment of a retirement community. The rest of the land will be developed into single-family lots for faculty and staff, according to Business Manager Robert A. Currie. College Land Planner Robert Martin has been given the go-ahead by the Trustees to devise the overall plan for the family lots and the retirement community. Martin will be working closely with Chester Prentiss, Director of Highland Farms Retirement Community in Black Mountain, North Carolina.With the preliminary land plan for the lots, Prentiss will be holding local meetings and using questionnaires to determine the amount of interest in establishing a retirement community. “Prentiss will be finding out two things,” stated Currie. “First, if there is enough interest for the plan to be feasible and second, if people are willing to invest in this.” Currie emphasized that the Trustees are interested in the retirement community but that the project will be financially independent of the college. (see CURRIE, page 3)

OPERATIONS/PRODUCTIONS MANAGER Sid Barrett examines some of the radio equipment in WDAV’s new, renovated studio. (David Litaker)

By CHARLES ERWIN
Staff Writer

In what faculty spokesmen are calling his first major act since taking office, Vice-President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann yesterday sent to the faculty’s Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) the first detailed written statement on faculty evaluation to have ever been drafted at Davidson. The document, which Zimmermann said has been extensively revised by both himself and College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. since first being written in the late fall, was released to all five PAC members shortly after noon yesterday.

“Basically the document codifies what we do now. By no means should it be looked upon as a new sudden miracle machine to eliminate all the problems,” said Zimmermann. PAC members plan to study the administration proposals and then meet as often as necessary for detailed discussion, according to Chairman Albert Allen Wolf, Professor of Physics. Should the committee object to any part of the document, Zimmermann said it will have to be revised even further. The College Constitution states that evaluation procedures must be drawn up in conjunction with the faculty. “If there are things in the document that the faculty do not find to their liking, I will sit down with them and discuss it. Our goal is agreement: it’s not like the coal miners’ strike,” he said. “I hope that it (sending the statement to PAC) will be the first step in a short procedure,” explained Zimmermann.

Zimmermann said that the timing of the document’s release is not related to recent criticism of the evaluation procedures used in deciding not to renew the contract of Professor of Political Science and Director of South Asian Studies, Tonia K. Devon.

WDAV sets sights on power increase
By PHILIP D. DUNCAN
Editor

One month from tomorrow WDAV-FM, for years a 10-watt fledgling in the radio world, will pull the switch and begin broadcasting at 18,500 watts to a potential audience of 2 million people in the greater Charlotte area. Director of WDAV Don Lovell spoke to The Davidsonian this week about the progress the station is making towards the high power move. Lovell said that the station is “halfway there” to its initial fund-raising goal of $70,000. That sum will offset the equipment purchases and some studio improvements necessitated by the switch to high power. Lovell expects the $70,000 goal to be attained. “We have a number of verbal commitments and some strong possibilities for donations that I don’t care to be specific about at this time.”

While the donations are accumulating, money from the College is financing the station’s expenditures. “This makes us stable,” said Lovell. Since the College backs WDAV, Lovell says he can persuade potential donors that the station is a sound investment. He does not know what WDAV’s yearly operating budget will be. He does not expect that the station will bring in enough money to support itself in the first years of operation. Lovell confirms that WDAV will encourage contributions from outsiders and will try to work away from its current position of near total financial dependence on the College.

The essentials for switching to high power are already on hand. “We have the transmitter and antenna” and some renovation of the studio has been completed. “We are waiting for capital funding to further upgrade the studio equipment. What we have there now we can make do with until we have more funds.” Lovell says that on the air “We are behaving now just as if we are at high power.” Although Lovell maintains that the programming schedule on which the station is now operating is the same the station will use after the power increase. (see LOVELL, page 2)