October 13, 1978

SENIOR DOUG Horn ran strong and finished first for Davidson last Saturday. Although several other runners performed well, the team
was outclassed by all but one of their opponents. The squad hopes to improve on its record this Saturday in
a tri-meet at Wake Forest.

Cats romp Randolph-Macon
By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats carry a 3-2 record into Bethlehem, Penn., for one of the toughest football games of the season.
The Lehigh Engineers have had four victories this season in five starts, with the defeat coming at the hands of
Pennsylvania. Lehigh was the Division II national champion in 1977. Davidson has lost its last three meetings with Lehigh. The
score last year was an embarrassing 43-7. The last Wildcat victory over the Engineers came in 1966 by a 34-27
score.

Davidson notched its third win of the last four games last Saturday with a 42-0 romp over Randolph-Macon. The 'Cats
stumbled through the first half and went into the dressing room with only a 7-0 lead. The third quarter started
just as slowly for the heavily favored Wildcats, but junior tight end Tom Trahey put some spark into the 'Cats'
afternoon. He grabbed a 26-yard pass from Al Rhyne with 3:02 remaining in the third period. Still in the third
quarter, Trahey blocked a Randolph-Macon punt and Pat Sheridan jumped on the ball in the end zone for another six
points.

The defense got more points on the board when Landis Wade intercepted a pass and returned it into the end
zone on a 40-yard run. Davidson's scoring ended with a 79-yard run by David Barnard. This run came on his
first play of the game. Davidson Head Coach Ed Farrell had praise for his defense by saying, "I can't remember
when I have had a defensive team score two touchdowns in a game. But that's what we got against Randolph-Macon
and it helped turn the game around. The offense was sluggish until the defense got us some points. Overall, the
defense performed well."

Wildcat Alvin Atkinson accounted for the two other Davidson touchdowns. His first score of the afternoon came from two yards
out, and he scored another TD on a five-yard run.

Harriers undaunted by recent setback
By JEFF HAMILTON
Staff Writer

Despite solid performances by many members of the cross-country team, Davidson's runners were badly mauled by visiting teams Furman (16-50),
Appalachian State (18-41), and The Citadel (21-34). The sole victory was over UT-Chattanooga who brought only two runners. The course
record was broken by Bob Gray running unofficially in 31:29.yard run. Mike Bass converted his extra point attempts.

Coming off a win over Delaware last weekend, Lehigh will present a formidable opponent for the ‘Cats this Saturday. Farrell
says that Lehigh’s wide receiver Steve Kreider is one of the best athletes that the team will face all year.
He added, “We will have to be at our very best physically and emotionally for them.”

First across the line for Davidson was senior captain Doug Horn in 33:37 for 10,000 meters, 15th in the overall
placing. Bart Landess was second for the Cats, 18th overall, with a time of 33:49, only seconds off his best
time. Filling out the placings for Davidson were George Strobel (21st), John Hoots (26th), Greg Burnard (29th), John Davis (30th),
Terry Morrow (34th), John Rees (85th), and Danny Armistead (98th) who was coming off several injury-filled weeks.

Davidson had many sick or injured runners, including Bob Sweet, Jim Cheek, Jeff Hamilton, Andy Umhau, and coach Norman Koller.
The harriers will hit the road next week, traveling to Wake Forest where they will meet Wake and Georgia State,
beaten by the Cats at the Stone Mountain Road Race earlier this season. There is no available information on the
current conditions of these two teams as normal scout Charles McDaniels topped off a busy week of mid-terms with a
lecture on “The Merits of Cross-Country Running” delivered in the lounge of Watts to a small but informed audience. Davidson
is now 2-7 for the season.

Clemson stalemated

Cats maul Wake

By BELLE ERDMAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team exhibited excellent team play last week as they overwhelmed Wake Forest by a 5-0 score.
Each goal was contributed by a different team member. Lisa Ballantyne, Cathy Inabnet, Kirk Cameron, Margaret Herman, and Jamie Watt
were all aggressive in the circle, and each added a point towards the victory. The defense appeared unstoppable. Cindy Curtis
admitted, “It was important for us to come back from the loss last week to Chapel Hill. We went into
it with a positive attitude and it paid off.”

Last Tuesday’s contest against Clemson was the team’s first on the road; Davidson found the Tigers much improved over last
year. Employing the psychological art of “coming from behind” learned earlier in the season, the Cats scored near the end
to tie the game 2-2. The goals were contributed by Kirk Cameron and Lisa. Mary Grey Gilchrist, however, displayed great
stickwork as she skillfully avoided the Clemson opponents. Clemson tried to counter Davidson’s stingy defense with a unique offensive line-up
which at first proved a bit deceptive.

Presently the field hockey record stands at 3-1-1, with the team averaging about two goals per game; Lisa Ballantyne leads
the scoring with an average of one goal a game. This weekend the team leaves for a road trip to
Duke and East Carolina and then meet Winthrop on Monday.

A Public Service of this newspaper & The Advertising Council

Millions upon millions have counted on us. Give Blood - Thursday, October 19 Chambers Banquet Hall Donor Time: 10:00-3:30
