Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter II, Business Manager
Volume LXVIN, Number Six

The difficulties with the radio station have been out of the spotlight for the past couple of weeks, and people
have started asking, “What’s going on with WDAV?” This week the answer—the matter has been simmering, and what’s going on
is coming up Monday. On that day, the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees visits Davidson to untangle the
mess that has been made of WDAV. Though the Trustees have allowed the administration to spend in excess of $75,000
for the station, the Monday visit marks the very first time that Board members will thoroughly and thoughtfully consider the
future of WDAV. Students, listeners, and dollars—those are the matters at hand.

WDAV student media?
First, is or is not WDAV a student media? Davidson’s 1976 Constitution says that it is; Trustee directives as implemented
by the administration say that it is not. One or the other is wrong. Will the student staff of WDAV
exercise primary control over the operation as do the students of other media, or will the students be subordinate to
hired professional staff? The struggle between students and administrators for control of the station has become a way of life
at WDAV; open communication occurs only when the students complain bitterly of administrative heavy-handedness. No one on campus today can
quiet the WDAV battleground. When the Executive Committee arrives Monday, it must declare the station to be or not to
be a student media, and it must explain specifically how students and administrators are to work together.

Public service/relations
Second, what mix of public service and public relations will WDAV offer its listeners? The administration has said that the
station will 1) broadcast high-quality programming to its audience of 2 million, and 2) will serve as a public relations
tool for Davidson. If the College has the interests of public service at heart, it will be interested in serving
the needs of the listening audience. On Monday, the Executive Committee must decide whether to work with other Charlotte stations
to serve the public, or to go it alone and pursue a “successful image.”

Dollars
Third, dollars. When it comes to money matters, Davidson is an unpredictable place. The Academic Vice President sends out a
memo instructing professors to curtail photocopying expenses in order to trim department budgets, and a collective grumble emits from the
faculty. Such pettiness receives attention, but few seem concerned about the $75,000 plus that has been spent after some vague
and undefined notion of a “high-quality” radio station. Expenditures on WDAV are justified as money sent after money; the College
provides the front-end cash to establish a high-quality radio station, the right people listen to that station and are so
impressed that they donate to Davidson. That's basically how it works—money sent after money. But how much money can we
justify sending? There are certainly less expensive ways of attracting the attention of potential donors. The Davidson National Print and
Drawing Competition was one way. Many of you remember the National, one of the foremost competitions of its kind in
the country, and recall that it drew some of the nation’s best artists and most discerning (and wealthy) patrons of
art to Davidson. The National was so successful that cataloguing and preparing the huge number of entries submitted outstripped the
capacities of the handful who volunteered for that chore. But instead of aiding an already-established high-quality institution that attracted students
as well.

WDAV: ‘And Solomon said...’

Letter to the Editor
Trio disappointed
To the Editor:
We're disappointed. We feel the impressions created by last week’s article concerning Trustees as well. Furthermore, those interviewed were encouraged
to express their candid...Opinions about the 1987 program. (In fact, one administrator confirmed the diversity of responses.)

Secondly, in such phrases as "not exactly diverse," and "the group most likely to give...a good impression of what Davidson
students are like," the article implies that Hall Advisors are nothing more than glorified salesmen for Davidson. In reality, the
initial selection process seeks diversity. In actuality, as mentioned at the end of the article—on page three—the purpose of the
interviews was not to give the Trustees a "canned presentation." In our opinion, the Hall Advisors were chosen because of
their unique perspective of Davidson. Not only do they have their own experiences to judge the school, but also the
various experiences and encounters of over 20 other students.

It is true that as a group Hall Advisors believe in Davidson's "sense of community and honor." Yet this belief
does not blind them to Davidson's weaknesses as implied in the article. Rather, this commitment heightens their awareness of problems
and of the need to deal with them. We feel that this concern, manifested in constructive criticism, is the only
way to improve Davidson.

The overall tone, structure, and wording of the article support the following misconceptions: that the interviews between Trustees and Hall
Advisors were arranged to "hoodwink" Trustees; that all Hall Advisors are basically alike; and that Melton himself assumed the above
when he chose the Hall Advisors as participants.

The National was allowed to fold for lack of funds. Now the College is spending $75,000 and more on a
venture whose future promises escalating costs for equipment maintenance, operating expenses, and a host of other items. In WDAV’s 10-watt
days, the station was ridiculed as the students’ toy. It was a toy, but a cheap one. Now that we’ve
crossed the bridge to high power and the administration has begun to play with WDAV, the toy is becoming mighty
expensive. Next Monday must not pass without a careful Trustee evaluation of how much the College can afford to spend
on its radio station. All at Davidson are weary of the ceaseless bickering between students and administrators over the future
of WDAV. We urge the Executive Committee to study the matter with care and settle the disputes once and for
all.

—Philip Duncan

In WDAV’s 10-watt days, the station was service-oriented with its listeners uppermost in mind. It has an obligation to coordinate
WDAV’s activities and programming with Charlotte’s other "high-quality" radio stations (UNCC’s WEFAE, et al). Coordination will ensure that area listeners
are offered the widest possible variety of quality music. To date, however, none on the Board or in the administration
have publicly proposed such cooperation. Instead, there has been considerable talk of a need for a "structured format" and an
"image" for a "successful" WDAV. Such language makes one wonder if the College isn’t more concerned with successfully projecting a
favorable image than it is with providing quality service.

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, JR.

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

Copy Editor
DAVE ISENHOWER

Special Assignments Editor
ANN SHEAFFER

Production Manager
AMANDA HALL

Circulation Manager
KAREN LONG

Department assistants:
News—Don Caldwell, Carole Lopteon
Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham
Editorial Page—Sheri Gravett
Photography—Phil Howerton
Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson
Production—Donya Boylston, Ralph Lasley, Mariellen Sewade
Circulation—Ricky Watson

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods). The newspaper office is on the third floor
of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 216, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year.
Second-class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
