PCC announces reserved openings

By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

At a meeting of the Patterson Court Council Wednesday night, representatives of each eating house and fraternity announced the number of openings they have reserved for freshmen choosing to go through self-selection. The ceilings for the houses are SAE-20, Emanon-25, ETC-25, PAX-30, Pika-20, ATO-15, Phi Delta Theta-21, Rusk-35, F&M-25, and KA-15. These ceilings are flexible; the groups may elect to accept more freshmen than they have indicated. They may not, however, accept fewer.

Briefly, the new self-selection system will work in this manner: Each freshman will fill out a sheet indicating his or her preference of eating clubs, listing one, two, or three choices. Dean of Students Will H. Terry and student representatives from each house will go through these sheets in a random manner. The drawing will be held February 16 in the Union. “All freshmen are welcome to attend,” Terry said. The results will be posted and the houses will be asked to inform the students.

Each freshman will be assigned to the house of his or her first choice. The preference sheets will be gone through in reversed order to give students who did not get their first choice a chance to join the house of their second choice. After this is done a third time, students will be assigned to waiting lists. If a student is extremely interested in joining one particular house, he or she may elect to list that house as his or her first choice and indicate no second or third choices. If in this case the house is already full, this student will be given a place on the waiting list above other students who have listed second and third choices.

“If a person single-shots a house, this means joining this house is more important to him than just getting into a house,” said Terry. On the other hand, the person who lists choices is probably more concerned with becoming a member of an eating house in general according to Terry.

Some representatives have said that they realize this constitutes a “loophole.” Under these rules, a house can set a very low ceiling and then admit people who are high on the waiting list. This loophole will not be taken advantage of according to several house representatives. “We are going to go through the system just like everyone else,” indicated KA President Vance Christopher. SAE President Will Miller feels that “setting a low ceiling would not be in the spirit of self-selection” and said that SAE would set a “reasonable” ceiling.

At present, there are 231 openings for freshmen in eating houses out of a class of 383. “I am aware that a lot of houses are very concerned about getting too large,” said Terry. He is also aware that there may not be enough places for everyone to join a house of their choice. “We will expect each house to be conscientious about setting a realistic limit for the house,” he said. “I am very concerned that two houses have decided to take only 15 people,” said Terry. “The houses have always been cooperative in understanding the overcrowding problems and taking into account the needs of the freshmen.”

Vol. LXVII, No. FIFTEEN

By MIKE DAISLEY
Staff Writer

After one week of operation, Davidson College’s Security Force is currently undermanned, with each of the three officers working overtime. Twenty-four hours during the week there are no campus officers on duty. Before the decision by director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze to split the college campus from the jurisdiction of the police, five officers staffed the campus precinct headed by Captain Jackie Hughes. No campus officers were on duty this week from 6:30 am to 2:30 pm on Tuesday, Wednesday, and today. One town officer patrols off-campus during those hours on Tuesday and Wednesday. Two town officers patrol on Thursday. Meetze expects no additions in personnel for two weeks. “Hopefully, we will have some by the end of the month,” he said. He said the college force will eventually be composed of five or six officers, including Hughes.

Following the January 16 announcement of the split, officers assigned to Town Precinct #2 (the campus grounds) were given 24 hours to decide whether to join the college’s security force or remain with the town police department. Officers Gussie Latta and Charles Burton joined with the College. The force officially began duty on January 26. Meetze felt assured.At the time of his decision that some of the town’s officers would join the College, had they not? Meetze replied, “I would have pulled a shift, you would have pulled a shift, we all would have pulled on until we hired some help.” Campus precinct lacks manpower. “The reason this all was so sudden,” Meetze explained, “is that I didn’t want all these people wondering what was going on, and where they were going to work.” Dean of Students Will H. Terry, although not consulted in the decision, called it “a [see PRECINCT, Page 2].”

Students
By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

A group of students have requested that the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) conduct an “immediate and thorough investigation” of the College Administration’s recent decision not to renew the contract of Assistant Professor of Political Science and Director of South Asian Studies Tonia Devon.

The students — Dave Barnard, Harry Greyard, Peggy Noel, Ellen Ogilvie, Maria Patterson, and Sam Weir — made the request this week in a letter to PAC Chairman Albert Allan Wolf, Professor of Physics. (Excerpts from the letter are printed with the permission of the student group and the PAC.)

The students brought six major concerns to the attention of the PAC. The concerns were:

A. Lack of a codified set of procedures for soliciting evaluations: There is no specific number of evaluations requested. This institutionalizes subjectivity in that conclusions may be hastily reached, based on an inadequate number of opinions.

B. Student Evaluations: At least one student was ignorant of the fact that her comments were to be used in the evaluation of Dr. Devon. Another student found it necessary to inquire into the nature of her conversation with Dr. Zimmermann. By such procedural flaws, the evaluation suffers from off-the-cuff comments.

C. Criteria: There was an inconsistency and vagueness in the evaluation of Dr. Devon. Prior to our meeting with Drs. Spencer and Zimmermann on January 18, 1978, three criteria had been given by the administration: professional competence, teaching ability, and community involvement. At our meeting with Drs. Spencer and Zimmermann, a fourth criterion was given: “The kind of person [he/she] is.” Using the original criteria, we find in the area of 1. professional competence: participation in faculty research groups, recent scholarly research in India, and presentation of papers at professional meetings; 2. teaching ability: the majority of the students find her most effective, and have benefited from exposure to her courses; 3. community service: participation in public affairs programs at Quaker and Unitarian Churches, participation in the “Great Decisions” course, a community enrichment program, and introducing to the campus a wide variety of cultural events. Where was her weakness?

D. Failure to communicate shortcomings: Dr. Devon was never informed of any weakness in her performance or effectiveness. During the evaluation process, at least one other faculty member was given notice that there were shortcomings in teaching method. Should not the administration be obligated to consistently pursue its policy of informing faculty members of deficiencies?

E. Future of South Asian Studies: The administration’s action in this particular case raises serious questions about the College’s commitment to the program.

The students also raised questions about the implications of this case for other untenured faculty members. “We would ask you to look at the burden that has been placed upon the untenured members of the faculty. Although we do not claim to represent the view of every untenured faculty professor, we observe a dangerous trend emerging after talking with several untenured faculty members.”

“These young professors see a competent faculty member dismissed because she had a personality conflict with a member of the Administration, and because she spoke out during the Linden Affair. These professors perceive an administration that is stifling dissenting opinions.”

“Here are some quotes from different untenured professors about Dr. Devon’s dismissal: ‘despicable,’ ‘a vendetta,’ ‘The message is clear: Don’t rock the boat.’”

“During our meeting with Dr. Spencer, he said that the main concern of the administration was to build ‘an outstanding faculty.’ It is ludicrous to suggest that an outstanding faculty can be built on a foundation of intimidation.” [see DEVON, page 2]