*) Final Issue: April 28, 1978 Future Fisherman Emeriti divulge By THOM YOUNG and JOE CRAIG; Guest Columnists as told to BILL PEEPLES, Features Editor

In their four years at Davidson, Joe Craig and Thom Young are famous and notorious for their countless conquests and atrocities. One (and probably only) unknown accomplishment is that in five short weeks each will become a Davidson Fisherman Emeritus. In an exclusive Davidsonian interview conducted in the privacy of their home for the past four years, the 900 Room, the pair revealed their best-kept exploit.

College years taught Craig how to win a coveted Watson Fellowship, while Young served the longest term of any SGA president in the College’s long history. However, they leave behind them an intriguing legacy. Such is a tale that rivals the humorous antics of Chalmers Davidson and C. Shaw Smith at Freshman Orientation. Dr. Davidson will even be compelled to display his story beside the plaster of Paris remnants of Peter Stuart Ney in the Rare Book Room. The Outing Club may even be named for them.

Joe and Thom simply do not understand deadlines, which is why they failed to turn in a well-thought article, and why a lowly Features Editor is writing this mass of profundity before The Davidsonian goes to press. The material that follows is their genuine account of the best fishing near Davidson.

Thompson’s Pond, a Young and Craig favorite, was the first spot discussed. To get there, take Concord Road to Thompson Street. Continue on Thompson until the pavement ends and park. A trail to the left leads to the pond, about twenty yards away. Said Young, “You catch bass the size of porpoises.” Craig confessed that keepable sizes actually vary from one to two pounds. Black plastic worms are the best bait, along with other spinner lures. The fishermen do not keep the bass that weigh less than a pound. “There is a small but adequate crappie population,” noted Craig. This species ranges from one to one and a half pounds. The bream are stunted, and if caught, Craig said, will contract a fungi infection unless the fisherman wets his hand before putting them back in.

In Thompson’s shallows, the bass go for crawfish. Due to inadequate growth, however, fly fishing is impossible without a boat. Said Craig, “This is the best pond around,” and Young added, “this pond is good as (expletive deleted).” They give Thompson’s Pond a rating of A-.

Venturing away from Davidson, the pair discussed fishing at Lakes Superior and Inferior. Lake Inferior, it appears, contains numerous females of all local species but very few males. Surprisingly, Young noted, “the reverse is true for Lake Superior.” As to directions for these two fishing paradises, Craig instructed prospects “to drive until you need an oil change.” Craig discussed the good catches at these lakes, saying that “blowfish and Japanese flounder can be caught in abundance, in addition to ankle and Joan sharks.” Lakes Superior and Inferior received a well-deserved rating of B-plus. A boat is not essential since polluted sludge provides ample footing.

Reverting to more serious fish habitats, the pair divulged information about McConnell’s Pond. This site, incidentally, is owned by Davidson College, and no angry farmer will chase away fishermen with a sawed-off, double-barrel, twelve-gauge scatter gun. To arrive safely at this coveted fishhole, follow Concord Road for a mile past the Davidson city limits. The pond is to the left.of the Concord expressway but cannot be seen from the road. Hungry fishermen must cross a barren cornfield before reaching the pond. This pond is frequently used by the biology department for marine studies. Craig told us that Professor of Biology David Grant, an occasional fishing partner, "claims that he once caught a monster of a fish there." Craig said this Grant comment is primarily blue sky. Grant was correct on one account, however. Craig related, "Dr. Grant once commented on the fact that the bream there are infested with parasites. When I started to throw back the miserable creatures, he stopped me. He said that the fish should be eaten, for their parasites provide good protein." Craig added that McConnell’s Pond is an excellent place to take a date for a sunny picnic, for "girls really love to fish." Small green and red-breasted snap-fish abound. They are best snared by a live worm at the end of a cane pole. The bass are best attracted by a rubber worm, though. In the current cool weather, bass weighing up to two pounds can be caught in the shallows with a fly rod. The best fly fishing, Craig noted, "is along the dam when things start warming up a bit." The group gave the pond a "gentleman’s C rating."

Young and Craig were somewhat uncertain as to the directions to the Dead Sea, but they swear on a stack of the new Code of Faculty Evaluation that they’ve fished those waters. There seems to be some discrepancy as to the nature of their catches there, however. Young related that "the fish are as plentiful as the hairs on Will Terry’s head." Craig retaliated by declaring, "Chances are zero to partly cloudy." Craig continued his argument against the Dead Sea. "What does Young know?" he inquired. "That turkey spends all his time fishing around on Third Cannon nowadays," he exclaimed emphatically.

The pond beside the FIJI House "is a real experience," they said in unison. They directed all prospects to the FIJI House and advised taking along a "divining rod that does not confuse pond water with beer." "There is only one way to fish that pond," Young reported, "and what I mean is to go tube fishing. Wear cut-offs, find a good inner tube, and sit in it." Fishing methods for this pond are different from other ones, as Young readily disclosed. "Throw a line out with a six-pack tied to it. What you catch may be warm, but I guarantee you'll like it," he added. He continued by saying, "We really don’t know much about it, having been only 18,000 times." Craig retorted, "The bream there are dying out because the FIJI septic tank has been leaking into the pond for years." The catch there consists of nothing but carp, which swim right up to the boat. The general consensus is that this pond rates a D, "unless of course you go tube fishing," said Young. "Then you'll feel like an A."

The water hole along the 13th fairway of the Charlotte Country Club is marvelous. "Having continued to fish there numerous times," Craig reported, "Young and I repeatedly catch Spauldingus ballus in mass quantities. Though bouncy, we sell them at the pro shop for $1.00." This spot received an A rating, and may well reach first place in the Davidsonian’s IMAC column.

Lake Norman is their final selection. They say, "Go directly to the ‘No Fishing’ sign at the end of the dock," at the college’s lake campus. For best results, fish all around the pilings and boats, for you are guaranteed to reel in such prizes as bream to bikini tops to rusted beer cans. "By all means," Craig said, "don’t throw any plugs into the rigging on Pete Nicholls’ schooner." For even better Lake Norman fishing, take a canoe into the coves for optimum fly fishing. "Be on the lookout for speed-boats," warned Young. "Also, be watchful for the Warden," added Craig, "or he’ll nail you for $25.00." Lake Norman received a B- rating.

INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. and Sales
The Shop Electronic Service
663-4513
334 S. Academy St.
Mooresville, N.C.