March 24, 1978

Sports

Preview

Baseball potential creates optimism

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Spring has arrived with its characteristic warm, sunny days, blue skies, flowers blooming, and birds singing. With Spring’s arrival, the familiar “crack” of the bat echoes through the air as the Wildcat baseball team eagerly begins its fifty-game season.

Coach Palmer Muench optimistically expects a successful season since he claims this year’s team is “the best since I've been here, and possibly the best Davidson baseball team in many years.”

“The reason is that we lost only three seniors last year, giving us twelve experienced players returning, and we have taken in eleven very capable freshmen. I feel that we are strong in all facets of the game: pitching, fielding, hitting, and base-running.”

Pitching:

Co-captain Tim Purcell heads this year’s pitching staff as the “ace.” Purcell throws a quick fastball that sets him up to throw his wicked curveball. This combination of speed and deception has consistently fooled batters and has resulted in his perfect 2-0 win-loss record so far this season.

Joining Purcell on the starting rotation is junior Ron Caron, a strong throwing southpaw who has started for the Wildcats since he was a freshman. Junior Ken Norwood, a “smart” pitcher, has moved into the starting rotation after having been a relief pitcher last year.

Freshman Bill Duke, the newest member of the ’Cat starting team, throws harder than any of the ’Cat pitchers and may be the fastest pitcher in the Davidson era. As he gains experience in college pitching, this freshman will be difficult to beat.

Long relief pitching comes from freshman Joby Merten (record 1-0) and Dave Tornetta, while short relief pitching is done by Mike Lins (record 1-0) and John Madden. Also on the staff are freshmen John Young and Rod Hanna.

Defense:

Muench says, “our team will only go as far as our defense takes us,” and so the success of the pitching staff relies upon good defense. So far this season, the ’Cat defense has proven itself to be consistently strong.

Sophomore catcher Bob Lapple, who was All-Southern Conference last year, is behind the plate again this season for the 'Cats. His rifle arm consistently throws out opposing base runners whenever they foolishly attempt to steal a base. Backing up Lapple is freshman catcher Yates Sealander.

At first base again this season is junior Sid Osborne.

Senior co-captain Rick Blinkhorn, whose experience and fielding expertise knits the ’Cat infield together, starts at second base. Freshman Blain Sanders backs Blinkhorn up at second.

The short-stop position is being very capably shared by freshmen Cam Zurbruegg and John Porter (a high school All-American). Both have displayed impeccable fielding so far this season.

Tim Goodell plays third base for the ’Cats, while being backed up by freshmen John “Eddie” Haskell and Jeff Ray.

The infield has displayed its defensive ability by turning nine double plays in nine games, which ties the number turned all last year (in forty games).

The ’Cat outfield also displays great defensive prowess with Jim Richards in left field, Stan Brown in center field, and Tim McDowell in right field. All three have good speed in covering the outfield and each throws dangerously well.

In fact, this season, Stan Brown alone has thrown out three opposing runners at the plate, while Richards and McDowell have each contributed with crucial throw-outs.

Hitting:

The ’Cat battery combines both power and consistency. Brown has already slammed three home runs and ten RBIs, while Lapple and Goodell each have hit two homers.

McDowell leads the team in consistent hitting with a .393 batting average, followed by Zurbruegg, Lapple, and Osborne, all of whom are hitting over .300.

With such consistent hitting to get men on base, the ’Cats have the opportunity to be aggressive base-runners. The team has stolen an impressive 31 bases in ten games. Richards leads the team with eight stolen bases, followed by McDowell with six.

Outlook for the Conference:

This year the ’Cats have the potential to be contenders in the Southern Conference. Their present Conference record is 2-0, having swept VMI in a double-header last week.

The toughest teams to beat will be Western Carolina and The Citadel. Both of these teams were very strong last year, but this season the ’Cats are proving they have the team capable of contending with any Southern Conference opponent.