Major league ‘ieee? The Davidsonian

Lapple’s talents abound

By BOB HAYMAN
Staff Writer

Possibly the most convincing testimony to the ability of Davidson catcher Bob Lapple was his selection to the all-Southern Conference baseball team as a freshman last year. Lapple hit only .229, but the Southern Conference coaches who voted him to the team recognized him as the premier catcher in the league and a solid professional prospect. Imagine how his stock has climbed this year with a .311 batting average through 32 games! And he’s as capable as ever behind the plate.

In recent years, Davidson College has produced outstanding athletes in quantities far disproportionate to the size of the student body. The small liberal arts institution has an enrollment of 1,300, yet every year it graduates fine athletes in a number of sports. The basketball stars that have attended Davidson are well-known: Fred Hetzel, Dick Snyder, Mike Maloy, and present all-American candidate John Gerdy.

Since 1975, though, Davidson’s premier athletes have been baseball players. It was in 1975 that Weicker hit .452, led the nation in slugging percentage with .810, and earned first-team all-American recognition, plus a professional contract. Last year it was pitcher Tim Barr who attracted attention. Barr set school records for wins (8) and strikeouts (106), and his 1.99 earned run average brought him a professional contract. Weicker is currently with the Cincinnati Reds’ AA team in Nashville, waiting for his chance in the major leagues. Barr is in the Atlanta organization and was one of the few Braves rookies invited to play in the instructional league this past winter.

It’s quite a tradition, but Lapple is keeping pace with unparalleled defensive skills and statistics that rank him at least third in every hitting category for the Wildcats. Besides hitting .311, he had 14 runs scored, 20 runs batted in, 33 hits, six doubles, and three home runs.

Results

Baseball (12-20, 3-5)
Duke 6, Davidson 0
Duke 16, Davidson 6
Furman 10, Davidson 5
Furman 6, Davidson 5
Davidson 4, Lenoir-Rhyne 3
Lenoir-Rhyne 7, Davidson 2
Wake Forest 3, Davidson 1
Pfeiffer 8, Davidson 3

Men's Tennis (23-3, 5-1)
Davidson 9, W. Carolina 0
Davidson 5, Appalachian 4

Women's Tennis (7-6)
Furman 7, Davidson 2

Track (5-1, 1-1)
Davidson 81, Citadel 80

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
REN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

The 6’, 195-pound sophomore from Thornwood, N.Y. takes little personal credit for his improvement, which he feels has resulted largely from the efforts of Weicker and coach Palmer Muench. “George helped tremendously,” Lapple says of Weicker, who returned this spring with Barr to assist Muench. “He showed me little things that come with experience—hints on relaxing at the plate while maintaining concentration. And he did wonders for my attitude; now I’m a really confident hitter.”

“Coach Muench is a master of the fundamentals. He picked apart my stance and swing and solved my problem. I’m a better hitter technically now. I’m not lunging or swinging from the heels. This year I feel really smooth. I’m hitting line drives when last year I would strike out.”

Consider this revealing statistic: After 32 games this year, Lapple has struck out only nine times, compared to 34 strikeouts in 40 games last year. Defense, though, is still Lapple’s forte, and many consider him one of the finest young catchers in America. He has a shotgun arm, one of the best in the nation, and a quick release that has caught 12 opponents attempting to steal this spring.

A fine all-around athlete, Lapple excelled in several sports at Westlake High School, where he was all-district quarterback inFootball and all-state in basketball and baseball. He played two years of varsity football at Davidson before deciding to concentrate on baseball, which holds the most promise for "Laps." 

"He's an outstanding player," Muench said. "He is a fine pro prospect, no doubt." Several scouts have expressed interest and Lapple is almost certain to be drafted, probably before the end of his senior year. Would he entertain such offers before he graduates? 

"It would be hard not to," he says. "I love playing baseball, and what could be more satisfying than to earn your living doing something you love?" But all that, he insists, is of no immediate concern. His job right now is to do what he can to help a talented Davidson team realize its potential. 

"Any personal success has been far outweighed by the frustrations we’ve experienced as a team," Lapple said. "We’re better than 12 and 20. What we've got to do is keep playing hard and salvage what pride we can. We're a good team and sometime before this year is over we're going to prove it."

April 21, 1978

ALL-CONFERENCE CATCHER Bob Lapple confers at the mound with pitcher Tim Purcell during a recent game. Lapple has played well all year, both on defense and at the plate, as is evidenced by his .311 batting average.

McPhail injured (Gregg Strader)

Relay keys victory

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

Despite the loss of multi-talented captain Carl McPhail, the Davidson Track Team managed to come from behind and defeat the Citadel, 81-80, in a conference meet held this Saturday on the Whittle Track. McPhail hyperextended his knee while winning the triple jump (46’ 0”) and was lost for the season.

Coty Pinckney set two more records, winning the 1500 meters in 4:01.7 and the 5000 in 15:16.5. Pinckney now holds the school record in both track and cross-country. The Wildcats fared particularly well in the weights. Jarry “Orca” Taylor won the hammer, Gary Stokes took the shot put, and Svend Pedersen, who has been extremely consistent all year, captured the javelin at 169’ 10.5”.

Doug Horn enjoyed a banner day. After winning the steeplechase convincingly in 9:44.6, Horn entered the 800 and trailed 3 Citadel runners by almost 30 yards after the first lap. Accelerating suddenly on the back stretch, the junior captain caught all three opponents and won by 10 yards in a fast 1:59.3.

The Wildcats won 11 of 17 first places in the individual events, but The Citadel countered by taking 14 seconds and 8 thirds, and with 3 events to go the Bulldogs led, 75-63. But Phil Gilbert and Terrazo Wallace went 1-2 in the 200 and Pinckney easily captured the 5000, leaving the mile relay to decide the outcome.

Senior Steve Justus led off and was followed by Gilbert, who ran a 51.0 although losing ground. Horn, normally a distance man, ran the fastest quarter of his life (52.3) and handed off to anchorman Dick Jones behind by 10 yards. Jones, who had already placed in the high hurdles and won the intermediates, quickly made up the distance, and the rival schools were dead even as their runners pounded desperately around the final turn. But Jones surged ahead in the last eighty yards and broke the tape a full second ahead of his opponent. The exhausted freshman was immediately mobbed by 30 jubilant teammates.

The Wildcats, now 5-1, dedicated their triumph to McPhail, who has been an inspiration to everyone on the squad. He is currently in a cast and is expected to fully recover in a few months. Davidson faces Emory and Henry on April 22nd and will participate in the Conference meet on the following Saturday.