The Davidsonian

February 10, 1978

Biologists irk fishermen off wild Alaskan coast

By CATHY ANSHELES
Staff Writer

Junior Irv Wilson has been on an Alaskan voyage. Last Christmas, Wilson applied to the Pacific Marine Center branch of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for a job on the research boat The Oregon. Hearing that no space was left, Wilson went to Anchorage, Alaska, where he and his cousin obtained a job on the Alaskan Pipeline. His job was mainly security work, Wilson explained, checking for leaks and damages along the pipeline. He spent two weeks at Prudhoe Bay and was then transferred to Chandalar Camp, which Wilson says is in the Brooks Range.

Around the middle of August, Wilson returned to Anchorage where he "played around for a couple of weeks." Returning from a trip to Mt. McKinley, Irv was told he was needed for The Oregon. Given the title of "ordinary fisherman," Wilson was a member of an eight-man crew on the 100-foot-long boat. They left Sand Point, an island near the end of the Alaskan peninsula, on September 3. "Fishing," Wilson explained, "is very slow traveling," so the trip took three weeks to get to Kodiak Island.

Also on board The Oregon were two biologists from the National Marine Fisheries Service, which initiated the survey of the shrimp populations in certain waters of the Gulf of Alaska. Starting at 7:00 in the morning, the fishermen made six to eight "trawls" a day. Wilson explained "trawling" as the pulling of a cone-shaped net along the bottom of the Gulf. When the fish were hauled on board, they were sorted according to species, counted, weighed, and then dumped back. Wilson described his job as helping sort the fish and cleaning off the deck. The scientific information was used to determine if certain areas should be opened, closed, or limited for commercial shrimping.

Every fourth night, Wilson said he had to "sit and anchor watch," which lasted from 9 pm to 5 am. He worked from 12 to 24 hours a day, receiving about $12.50 an hour, and according to Wilson, "it was good food." Although he had been on commercial fishing boats before, Wilson said his voyage on The Oregon was his longest without going on shore. The second half of the trip, from Kodiak Island to Seattle, Washington, lasted two weeks and five days. It took longer than normal due to a storm which Wilson stated was "one of the worst storms the Alaskan coast had ever experienced." A good deal of the journey was spent sitting out the storm in harbors. "The barometer dropped below record," and, according to Wilson, winds were up to 70 mph and waves as high as 20 feet.

Wilson mentioned that he was able to form a collection of fish and invertebrate animals during the trip and is receiving a 301 credit in Biology. The junior from Sanston, Va., noticed some incompatibility between the biologists and fishermen and feels that this was due to certain background differences. "Certain incidents on the boat disappointed"me... Wilson stated that he is no longer interested in being a National Marine Fisherman. Concerning the field of Marine Biology, Wilson concluded, “I like it and enjoy it, but I don’t want to spend my life in it. I would rather have my feet on land and sneak out to sea every once in a while.”

Review
A small Alaskan octopus attaches itself languidly to Irv Wilson’s rain hat. Wilson, here soggy and complacent, had to spend many days anchor-watching and waiting out storms. But there were good times too. [Irv Wilson]

Banal Superman depends on hype
By ROBERT BOWIE
Assistant Features Editor

In this winter of the movie season, when the movies are as bad as the weather, it’s time to look ahead to Hollywood’s coming attractions. Looming large on the horizon is Superman. Like King Kong, Superman is depending on hype and special effects to sell what appears to be a very banal picture. Marlon Brando got paid quite handsomely, though one doubts a cameo appearance can save a disaster. One thing that may: the special effects crew is reportedly working on a holographic process that would allow Superman to fly off the screen as a finale. Now that could really take the audience’s breath away.

Next on the agenda is a whole string of films about the Vietnam war. Robert DeNiro should give one of his reliable performances in The Deer Hunter, a film which apparently plays up the humor element of the war at the expense of any social or political message. Francis Ford Coppola’s Apocalypse Now will soon reveal whether he can work the Godfather magic again with a picture that literally has to be a blockbuster in order to succeed. In case this doesn’t satisfy all you war mongers, Robert Stone’s Dog Soldiers is coming to a theater near you sometime late this year.

For topics closer to home, Paul Schrader’s Blue Collar offers a violent attack on the American auto industry and features Richard Pryor, Yaphet Kotto, and Harvey Keitel. Keitel gets a workout in two other films, Fingers and The Duellists, which must mark a step up for someone previously known for giving the best three-minute performances of the year.

In foreign films, Americans seem to have stopped importing films and started importing directors. Italian Lina Wertmuller, German R.W. Fassbinder, and tax-exile Ingmar Bergman all have movies coming out in English. Judging by the mixed response received by Wertmuller’s and Bergman’s efforts (both films have just been released), Fassbinder looks like the best bet. Based on a novel by Vladimir Nabokov, Despair has a script by Tom Stoppard. Francophiles should enjoy Jean Charles Tacchella’s Blue Country, the director’s first film since Cousin, Cousine.

Robert Altman’s A Wedding will either be a masterpiece or an absolute disaster, depending on which side of the Altman controversy you are on. On top of all this, there will be all the usual trash that makes American movies so much fun.