Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Rusk Scholars Campus limeys find out it’s just as well to be out of England when April’s there

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Staff Writer

The Rusk Scholars from England talked to The Davidsonian this week about their experiences here and their future plans. They
are all from St. Paul's School and St. Paul School for Girls in London. They are going to be studying
at Davidson this spring and traveling throughout the U.S. this summer.

Thomas David H. Cairns from Putney, a suburb of London, studies natural sciences at St. Paul’s and will be attending
Balliol College, Oxford University for medical studies in the fall. At Davidson he is taking Drama 21, Women Writers, and
Problems of Philosophy, which he finds ‘an uninspiring subject.” Cairns runs the 880 on the Davidson track team, plays the
cello and trombone, and reads literature. He also likes to play pool. Of Davidson, he remarked, “I like the Post
Office. The assistants are very English in their surliness. Seriously, it’s isolated, but the redeeming feature is the people are
open and frisky. However, there is a bland social consciousness and the atmosphere is highly academic.” He feels there is
much more political activity in English universities and he sees Davidson as “solely a college town which is reflected in
the students’ ideas which can appear young in a restricting, conventional way.”

Kerry McQuade, from Shepperton, Middlesex, near London, concentrated on French, math, and Latin at St. Paul's School for Girls. She
will be attending Warwick University near Stratford to study French and drama next year. She is now taking Women Writers
and Drama 21. She praised Professor of Drama Joseph Gardner but added, “I wish there was more to the drama
lessons.” A “Drama fan” and a Saturday Night Fever fan, McQuade swims before breakfast each morning, takes ballet class, goes
to films, and is involved in backstage work for the drama productions. She eats at ETC and she likes it
“a lot—I’m putting on weight.” McQuade thinks the parties the Rusk scholars have been to “were not too successful because
we didn’t know enough people.” McQuade said of Davidson, “I like it a lot. I don't (see RUSK, page 2)

Volume LVXII, Number TWENTY-TWO
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 — April 7, 1978

IT’S GETTING late, but Ki’s still looking for a sweetie for Spring Frolics.

Hiring procedure reaches final stages

By LYNN PEACE and CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writers

Decisions on hiring for faculty openings are now in their final stages, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C.
Price Zimmermann. Positions will be filled in the departments of Art, Physics, Religion, Sociology, Psychology, French, and History. “We’re doing
our best to identify minority candidates and go out of our way to give them the closest possible look,” commented
Zimmermann.

PAC discusses code

By EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writer

The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) will meet Friday to discuss the proposed faculty evaluation code drawn up by College President
Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. and Vice-President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann. At this time the PAC will make recommendations
concerning the code and suggest changes they feel are necessary. The committee will then meet Wednesday, April 12, with Zimmermann
to discuss these proposed changes. After Zimmermann and the PAC have decided upon a tentative draft, the general faculty will
be given the opportunity to read and discuss it at an open meeting, according to Chairman of the PAC, Professor
of Physics Alan A. Wolf. The faculty may at this point make further alterations in the code. The PAC met
Tuesday with a student opinion consultant who has developed a questionnaire to measure student response. “A new method of...

---"Determining student evaluation of faculty is an essential part of the proposal,” said Wolf. Wolf hopes to have an open
meeting with faculty and students to discuss this aspect of the evaluation process.

Art
The Art Department has hired Russell Warren, “A real dynamo and a really nice person,” according to Professor of Art
Herb Jackson. Warren will replace Professor of Art Doug Houchens, who is retiring. He will teach studio art courses and
set up a lithography shop. Warren is 26, a painter and a printmaker. “He’s full of wonderful enthusiasm and energy,
and students are going to like him a lot,” said Jackson. “He’s sensitive and excited about his art. People will
find his art very curious. His art is totally different from mine — figurative, kind of humorous, with brash bold
colors; wild stuff,” enthused Jackson. Warren has a Master of Fine Arts from the University of Texas at San Antonio.
He is currently employed in a commercial silk screening firm. “We're hiring for two years. If he holds up, as
I’m confident he will, he'll probably be someone we want to keep,” said Jackson.

In response to an announcement of the available position, Jackson received 200 to 300 applications. Jackson also interviewed an additional
78, about half of which were women, at the College Art Association meeting in New York this winter. “I had
no preconceptions of what sex or background the person should have. I made every effort not to judge the people
in interviews,” said Jackson. The College Art Association does not permit employers to ask about an applicant’s religious status. However,
Jackson said applicants received a statement concerning the college’s religious affiliation before the interview and were asked how they felt
about it in the interview. “Some of the Jewish people found it dangerous; a little scary,” said Jackson. Jackson selected
approximately a dozen candidates to re-interview, eight of which were women. “I thought at first it was going to be
a woman. The strongest candidates were women,” remarked Jackson. However, Warren stood out (see FACULTY, page 3).

Acting Editor Duncan Takes Leave
By BILL BARNETT
Senior Editor

Philip Duncan has taken a leave of absence from the editorship of The Davidsonian and Pam Camerra, former news editor,
has been appointed acting editor. “I have been charged with violating the Honor Code and desire to step aside so
that the credibility and effectiveness of the newspaper will not be harmed during the Hearing Committee’s deliberation of my case,”
Duncan told the Media Board Monday.

The Media Board consented unanimously with Duncan's request for a leave of absence and also accepted his recommendation that Camerra
be named acting editor. Duncan has been charged with obtaining unauthorized information to be used in an article for the
March 31 issue of The Davidsonian about the recently-completed Code of Faculty Evaluation. The charge was levied by Professor of
Physics Alan Wolf, who is chairman of the Faculty Affairs Professional Committee. Wolf alleges that Duncan illegally obtained a copy
of the Code of Evaluation which Vice-President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann drafted and sent to members of the
PAC on Wednesday, March 29. Neither Duncan nor Dean of Students Will Terry could comment to the specifics of the
case before the newspaper on Hearing Committee meets. Terry did outline the course of action open to the Hearing Committee.
Their options are acquittal, warning, censure, fine or retribution, probation, or suspension for a definite or indefinite period. Duncan received
a summons Wednesday to appear before the Hearing Committee next Tuesday.
