10. The Davidsonian October 13, 1978

BB&B lauded for world peace effort

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

Every year for the past year we have received ten letters from our readers. We felt that it would be
both appropriate and interesting to print ten of these epistles and reply to them in a public forum.

Dear Scholars:
I have been pleased (burp!) with your articles this year. You seem to be following the pattern of the traditional
romanticists with your diction and grammar, and yet your syntax stems from the writings of the Renaissance (fart!) period. You
seldom solecize, and your incorporation of praxis, jussive, and syllabication (hiccup!) is just charming.
Charlie Lloyd

Dear Charles:
We appreciate your compliments, but they seem rather vacuous and inane in light of the fact that one of us
made a 57 on your English 165 mid-term. Gamor and excitement over the success of the Camp David Summit have
eclipsed the true value of your scholarly articles. Anwar and I both deeply believe that had it not been for
the pleasant humor in your last column, we would have been unable to relax and ease the tensions which were
blocking the settlements.
AMAD ISLAM JONES

Dear Mr. Begin:
We are pleased that you and Anwar enjoy our column. We think the ideology behind the framework was superior, but
the substructure on page 73, Section B (concerning the Sinai settlements) upset us. If you had been more aggressive, you
could have pushed for a 3 month, 6 year release, rather than the paltry 2 month, 4 year plan. Feel
free to contact us in the future.
Sincerely yours,
Bad Bernard and Bonehead

Dear Handsome Southeast Humble Hunks,
We appreciate the coverage that you have given Women’s IMAC this year. Your idea to do a special about us
is super. We suggest that you write about each team and make cute little jokes about some of the more
popular girls. At the end of the article, you could make fun of the guys or maybe not even mention
them. Have fun and come see us sometime. We love you,
The Girls from Grey House

Dear MW, MH, MH, HH, FT, LR, CH, BW, LH, KR, ZZ, and OQ:
What can we say? Be cool and be crazy.
Thanks,
BB&B

Dear BB and B:
In response to your Sept. 29 article, allow me to express my views on this matter. I hate everything that
you wrote. You two really ... me off and I just can’t take it any longer. If I (Jonathan Keith)
ever find out who you are, I am gonna kick your ... from one end of this schoolyard to the
other.
Mad as Hell,
Sam Spencer

Dear Sambo:
We think that you are justified in your thinking. Thanks for setting us straight, and you can bet your ass
a nickel that we won't write any more crap.

Dear Bernard and Bonehead:
As editor of the Davidsonian, let me congratulate you on the fine article that you produce each week. Your column
presents the facts about intramurals at Davidson. You report objectively on all the games and even mention the teams that
try so diligently but continue to lose. Unlike the IMAC writers of the past, you do not make inside jokes,
but present humor that can be understood by all. My only request is that you might want to mention some
of your friends sometime, and maybe give the KA’s and Cathy Landis a break. We thought Cathy Landis was trying
to brownnose us. We will never.

Dear Bernice and Bone:
Me and my buddy Sid have this running argument between us about whether or not the Library really is on
campus. He says it is, and I say it is down by the fire hall. Could you settle this dispute?
Also, he says that there really are some requirements for graduation. Well, I have been here for four years and
have never heard of such. Again, who is right?
Thanks for your help,
George Bright

Dear George:
We are sorry to say that you are wrong again. The Library is on campus. If you are in the
900 room, it is the well-lit building out the front door and across the lawn. If you are passed out
in Duke, it is right in front of you. As to your second question, there are indeed requirements for graduation.question
_ The handbook states that a minimum of 36 courses and 72 grade points are required for graduation. If you
write us again, George, please avoid the cigarette burns on your letter.

BB&B

Dear Brothers Bernie and Bone:

I am a disillusioned young Negro student and I am really upset with the way Blacks are treated on this
campus. Me and another guy, Phil Gilbert, have started a revolutionary black militant organization and have stored some weapons off
campus. Our primary goal is to seize all the new basketball shoes in the equipment room and distribute them to
underprivileged young people throughout the world. I am really upset, however, because Phil (Adul Kamidd) told me that I cannot
be a genuine true radical revolutionary unless I change my name to Tanya or Kareem or something. What do you
guys think?

Confused in Davidson
Virgil Lee Fludd

Dear Confused:

We have always thought that Virgil Fludd was a weird name, and it could only be to the benefit of
you and your underground organization for you to change your name. We have always been partial to Amad Talam Jones.
Good luck and power to the oppressed.

BB&B

Dear Nardie and Head:

I am a junior here at Davidson and I am interested in trying out for the basketball team. Who is
the head coach this year? How many walk-ons do they keep? If I get cut and they change head coaches
during the year can I walk on again? Just what does walk-on mean? Has anyone ever walked off? Do walk-ons
get name plates over their lockers? Are all of the assistant coaches really from New York? Where can I obtain
a copy of The Book on John Gerdy?

SAE’s more recognition.

Thanks for your time,
Phi DanC Perkey

You ask a lot of questions for one letter. You guys are really neat and I read your column every
day. In fact, I have read your last issue fourteen times and each time I read it, it changes my
life. My problem is that I want to be a politician, but do not know what path I should follow.
What would look good on my record?

Thanks a heap,
Perplexed, Randy Haynes

Dear Randy:

The following idea was taken from our book Making People Think Your Life Is a Success. You need to become
involved in a campus activity. Since the most prestigious position (IMAC sports writer) has been filled, you should run for
office in a worthwhile campus organization. The French Club has an opening at Secretary and you might check to see
if the Water Ski Club needs a new Historian. Otherwise, run for S.G.A. President. Good luck and be honest.

BB&B

Dear Sirs:

Let me just say that your Bad Bernard and Bonehead article is one fine piece of journalism. I am writing
to ask your permission to model my column in the exact same fashion as yours. Presently, nobody reads my column
and I am in danger of losing my job. I have to support my wife and three kids and I
just bought my girlfriend a new Cadillac. Do I have your permission? Do you have any ideas to help me?

Desperate,
Bob Quincy - The Charlotte Observer.

Dear Bobby:

As to your column, don’t change it -- that is where we get all of our ideas. As to your
girlfriend -- beef her.

BB&B

In the two big flickerball games of the week, the Old Men surprised the SAE’s, 7-6, and KA Gold held
back Hurtin for Certain, 52-32. The SAE’s were caught short, with 6 players missing, but then, excuses are just like
buttholes -- everyone has one. When you get right down to it, on that afternoon the Old Men just flat
out beat the E Bags. Kevin Doherty noted after the game, “This has been my biggest win since I have
been at Davidson, maybe with the exception of the South Carolina game last year.” In the KA game, the Gold
offense looked strong behind the Rose, but the defense showed some weak spots it must fill before the playoffs. After
the game Andy Smith made the following comments: “I just hope those guys that write that stupid article mention us
this week, and give us the true credit we deserve.”

In games of no importance, the Penthouse Rowdies edged the Amazing Girls from Grey House. Grey House was at a
serious disadvantage as they only had three players show up for the contest. And we have to admit that Hot
to Trot tries harder.

And now the revised BB&B Top Ten:
1. KA Gold
2. McFleet and Stuff
3. The Old Men
4. SAE
5. Up and Coming
6. Hurtin for Certain
7. The Hole
8. TBA
9. The Skins
10. (tie) The Cadillac Cowboys
10. (tie) Penthouse Rowdies

Later.
