The Mariaganiar

Famed actress comes here in early January

By DR. JOSEPH GARDNER
Professor of Drama

Every December I see a film called Broken Blossoms. It was directed by D.W. Griffith in 1919, and I select
it for my film course as an example of his best work.

Every year, however, I am more convinced of how much this film depends upon the sparkling performance of its leading
actress, a 19-year-old girl named Lillian Gish.

Andrew Sarris, during his recent visit to the campus, referred to Gish as one of the five or six greatest
screen actresses of all time. Sad to think that nowadays she is more familiar to critics like Sarris, students of
film, and to those who saw her films in the Teens and Twenties. Not that she hasn't remained active. She
still makes an occasional appearance, most recently in Robert Altman’s A Wedding. But the silent film was her real domain.

Those who did see her work then are especially fortunate. Silent films were meant to be seen, not as historical
relics or even as works of art but, quite simply, as films.

This term is especially appropriate to Gish’s work. In her performances, we recognize that in “Miss Lillian”, as Griffith called
her, we are confronted with an artist of legendary proportion. The image is unforgettable: golden hair, shining with more radiance
than any studio lamp could have provided, the slender, girlish body, the pouting, cupid’s-bow mouth, and most of all the
eyes, clear and wide and bright and innocent.

And the real Miss Lillian is even more beautiful than the image. She was respectable yet independent when actors were
placed somewhere beneath chimney-sweeps on the social scale. She is an avid reader, and still considers herself a “learner”. She
is a woman of culture, a truly civilized human being, a lady. In short, Lillian Gish is an American institution.

I remember seeing her on the Today show a few years ago, on the centennial celebration of Griffith's birth. She
was instrumental in having a commemorative postage stamp issued in his honor. I was overwhelmed by her energy, lucidity, charm,
and yes, her great beauty. It’s almost unbelievable that in a few short weeks she'll be here among the mortals.

Shaw Smith and William Brown deserve the credit for making it possible with this year’s exciting Artist Series. Now it’s
our turn. Miss Lillian is unique. It’s rare enough to see her on the screen, during those moments of magic
in which life is created out of light and shadow. Much rarer is the opportunity to have her here in
person.

LILLIAN GISH
December 15, 1978

Eglin, Willingham grab advisorship

By CAROLE LOPISTON
Asst. News Editor

In what turned out to be the closest of Tuesday’s major student elections, Juniors Anne Eglin and John Willingham became
advisors to next year’s freshman class.

Asked to comment on his victory, Willingham said, “We'd been working for four or five weeks before Thanksgiving. So when
elections came, we just had to put everything into motion.”

Eglin attributed the victory to their attempt to talk to as many voters as possible. “The election was close enough
as it was. People are sprint past Bunny Horine and Mike McGrady, who polled 966 votes.”

Horine and McGrady were gracious in defeat. “We never considered it a race against them. We really disliked the whole
idea of being really competitive and we tried to avoid it,” said Horine.

“I can’t say that Mike and I were so competitive that we went out after it in a really competitive
way. I don’t think they wanted it more, or less, than we did,” she added.

Willingham and Eglin said they expect to put Horine and McGrady on the committees involved in the selection of hall
counselors. Willingham added that the losing team may be asked to coordinate the big brother program for incoming freshmen.

Asked about the possibility of taking on such responsibilities, Horine said, “We'll offer our help any time they need it
and support any time.”

Willingham and Eglin’s responsibilities will begin immediately. In January they will be involved in the selection of next year's hall
counselors.

If you question long enough and hard enough, certain truths about beer become self-evident. And, the quality of its head
is fact rather than philosophical conjecture. We think there's one truth about O'Keefe that Socrates would not question: It's too
good to gulp. As any rational man can taste.

Imported from Canada by Century Importers Inc., New York, NY
