~ Letter 6 to the Editor - Zionism

To the Editor:

"The Palestine problem is the problem which has arisen from the fulfillment of the Zionist ambition to create a Jewish state in Palestine at the cost of the forcible displacement of the original inhabitants and the usurpation of their national homeland. It should be remarked at the outset that the Palestine problem does not involve a conflict between the Arabs, be they Muslims or Christians, and Judaism, for Arabs and Jews have lived throughout centuries in peace and harmony. The conflict is between the Arabs and Zionism, which from a humanitarian concept seeking a place of refuge for persecuted Jewry, has evolved into what some consider to be a racist, nationalist, and imperialist movement." (Henry Cattan, The Middle East: A Handbook).

I think it is common for one in this country, because of the information which one receives, to regard Zionism as a movement with the empathy-evolving goal of providing the long and terribly persecuted people of the Jewish faith with a homeland where they can live their lives in peace, free from the hardships and fears imposed upon them wherever they roam. If this were true, there could be no more noble and peace-pursuing movement in the history of mankind. However, to the contrary, since the establishment of Zionist forces in the Middle East, there has been nothing but bloodshed and violence, climaxing in four major Arab-Israeli wars -- in 1948, 1967, and 1973. It is hard for me to imagine all this hostility and conflict resulting from simply establishing a place of refuge for a persecuted people. Therefore, I feel it is of utmost importance to come to an understanding of what Zionism really is.

Three main aspects of Zionism which need to be sharply differentiated from each other are Religion, Economic, and Political Zionism. Religious Zionism is an integral part of the orthodox Jewish faith and has to do with Jehovah gathering his people from the ends of the earth and reestablishing both the ancient Jewish priesthood and the Jewish kingdom. It is, however, a fulfillment of divine prophecy by the hand of God and hardly capable of being translated into an active political movement.

Economic Zionism can be described as the effort on the part of the Jews in the late 19th century to "secure a home in some soil where they might live safely and develop freely" without the pressure of the sinister and despotic governments of Russia and Rumania, which used the Jews as scapegoats and subjected them to all forms of persecution and oppression. It was natural and not accidental that the Zionist movement took its rise in Russia, starting in 1881 with Dr. Leo Pinsker's call to "Self-Emancipation." At first, this emancipation of the Jews took the form of mass immigration out of Russia and Rumania and the establishing of colonies mainly in North and South America, but also a few in Palestine. The immigration movement into Palestine was then thought of as perhaps even a good thing for the region, for many thought that the economic conditions of Palestine would improve with the influx of energetic and enthusiastic groups.

A new direction, however, was given to the Zionist movement through the introduction of the political factor. This was the work of the late Dr. Theodore Herzl, who may be regarded as the founder of political Zionism, which, quite distinct from the religious and economic phases, has as its ultimate aim the conversion of Palestine into a Jewish State. Since the first Zionistic Congress held at Basel in 1897, therefore, the political note has been the dominant one in the Zionist movement, attaching itself to both the religious and the economic aspects in such a way as to secure a far more Davidsonian approach to Mid-East peace.

The four great powers are committed to Zionism, be it right or wrong, good or bad, rooted in age-long traditions, in present needs, in future hopes, of far profounder import than the desires of the one to two million Arabs who now inhabit that ancient land. The Balfour Declaration paved the way for massive Jewish immigration into Palestine, promoted and financed by Zionist organizations with one political objective: the creation of a demographic nucleus which would...Lead to the domination of Palestine. “Since the establishment of Zionist forces in the Middle East, there has been nothing but bloodshed and violence, climaxing in four major Arab-Israeli wars. Therefore, it is of utmost importance to come to an understanding of what Zionism really is.” General cooperation for the ultimate aim of political Zionism. As early as 1919, political Zionism, distinct from Religious and Economic Zionism, had been described as involving “not only difficulties, as the Zionists themselves recognize, but also dangers which in the opinion of non-Zionists are sufficiently serious to condemn the entire movement as unfortunate and as threatening to peace throughout the world.” (Morris Jastrow, Zionism and the Future of Palestine; the Fallacies and Dangers of Political Zionism.)

With 1919 also came the birth of the Balfour Declaration, which has been described as a document in which “one nation solemnly promised to a second nation the country of a third.” It was made in complete disregard of the rights and wishes of the inhabitants of the country, including those of the Jews of Palestine, who also disapproved of the Zionist plan of a Jewish-controlled state. On August 11, 1918, Arthur James Balfour himself wrote, “In Palestine, we do not propose even to go through the form of consulting the wishes of the present inhabitants of that country.”

Broaden evaluation input (Continued from page 4) soon. If not, the primary concern of the Academic Vice-President will not be faculty evaluation, but finding faculty members who will stay at Davidson long enough to even be evaluated. Any process in which a group of people must evaluate a peer is necessarily delicate and no perfect system will ever be devised. Indeed, a brief perusal of other college newspapers shows that even at schools with more clearly defined evaluation procedures, controversies over renewal decisions still occur. The implementation of a more cogent process at Davidson will not forever eliminate cries of “Foul!”, but it would at least enable us to know the rules of the game.

Jim Entwistle was referred to the United Nations, the Zionists mobilized their forces enlisting also the support of President Truman, and secured a United Nations vote in favor of partition. This partition meant that the Jews, who owned about 6 percent of the land in Palestine, were given almost two-thirds of that country. In 1949, after military and paramilitary seizure of many wholly Arab cities, towns, and villages, the total area under Israeli control amounted to almost 80 percent of the territory of Palestine. The Arabs were left with one-fifth of their homeland. But this was not yet enough, for in the Zionist creed it was now necessary to free the territory of the proposed Jewish state of its Arab inhabitants, in order to ensure the creation in Palestine of a state that would be racially, religiously, and exclusively Jewish.

Dr. John H. Davis, former Commissioner-General of the U.N. Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), has said that “the extent to which the refugees were savagely driven out by the Israelis as part of a deliberate master plan has been insufficiently recognized.” This is, in my opinion, a perfect example of the pro-political Zionist influence in the mass media of our country: for how many have ever heard of the account of Deir Yassin, a small peaceful village on the outskirts of Jerusalem, in which three hundred persons were massacred, without any military reason nor provocation of any kind? Old men, women, children, and newly born were savagely assassinated with grenades and knives by Jewish troops of the Irgun, which by the way is the same terrorist group in which Mr. Begin rose to popularity. In any case, the objective behind the Deir Yassin massacre was achieved, with disastrous results: it led to the Palestine Arab exodus of 1948. Where terrorism did not succeed in driving away the Arab inhabitants, the Jews resorted to actual expulsion, as in Haifa, Lydda, Ramleh, Tiberias, Safad, Beersheba, and several other towns and villages.

The number of Palestinians displaced in 1948 has been estimated at 100,750,000 persons.

Chuck Fiden, '78
Davidson College

PALESTINIANS ARE
B. Coward