December 8, 1978

CANDIDATES RUNNING for the Honor Council are: (seated) Jim Clark, Julie Cheney, Beth Goode, Carolyn Barnett. (First row) Carolyne Watt, Carol Robinson, Carol Impara, Jack Hall, Daniel Ettedgui, Sally Campbell. (Second row) Stokes Peebles, Kent Dyer, Michael Kehs, Douglas Shanks, David Taylor. Not pictured are freshmen John Shay, Adelaide Wilcox, Rusty King, Sally Sharp; Sophomores Julie Webber, Clay MacCauley, David Waddill, Brad Kerr, David Roberts, Diana Pierce, Hope McArn, Richard Jones, Rob Fields; and juniors George Brown, Jim Crane, Sara Stoneburner, Rob King, Jimmy Prappas, Eugene Heath.

Erwin, Ferraro battle for Davidsonian editorship

(Continued from page 1)

"I want to become editor because I love The Davidsonian and believe in the importance of journalism," says Erwin. "There’s nothing as good as a good newspaper."

For the past two summers, the Georgia native has worked as a staff writer for the Albany Herald. His news and feature stories often rated by-lines and several made the front page or were distributed on the Associated Press and United Press International wire services. This year Erwin won a coveted McGill Scholarship, sponsored by the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Such scholarships are awarded yearly to the most outstanding college journalists in the South.

As Erwin sees it, the paper presently suffers from poor organization. "People spend a lot of time trying to do the things they’re not very good at, and don’t have the time to do the things they are good at." In an effort to remedy the situation, he would like to see the staff "streamlined," divided into writing, production, and business components. A specialized staff, he maintains, would be more efficient. Streamlining the staff would be a very important step toward meeting a more professional production schedule, according to Erwin. If elected, he intends to establish a system of "staggered deadlines" whereby each section of the paper (news, sports, etc.) would adhere to deadlines on different days of the week. Thus, the workload would be spread more evenly throughout the early part of the week.

"I would emphasize coverage of future events in features and sports," he insists. "Of course, the news stories have to be up to the moment, and would take up most of the time on Wednesday."

Erwin states his major goal simply: "Nothing is as important to a newspaper as its credibility." Concerned about accurate reporting, he wants to implement strict measures which he hopes would prevent errors of misquotations, especially. Erwin would like to set aside room in the paper for a regular critique column written by objective non-staffers, a sort of "newspaper for the newspaper."

Erwin would like to see advertising revenues cover more of the newspaper’s operating expenses. Presently, The Davidsonian is supported by a substantial amount of money from the Activities Tax Council, funds which other clubs and organizations seek desperately. Erwin feels that a better advertising scheme for the paper would leave more money for other campus organizations. Erwin would also like to add a quality weekly sports column to The Davidsonian’s content.

"No matter who is the editor, The Davidsonian will never be a perfect paper. But I believe it should be the best it can be. And I'd like to try."

If the final production deadline could be met consistently, Erwin explains, a better quality printing job could be done, which would serve to further embellish the layout. "I think it’s time to quit using a high school kind of advertising system. Most importantly, skillful use of ads..."can aid in displaying stories and articles to their best advantage. Ferraro worked on his high school newspaper as a news and sports staff writer. His previous involvement as sports editor for his high school annual lends photography experience to his assets. He also became a staff writer for The Davidsonian this term. Yet Ferraro sees The Davidsonian editorship as “more of an organizational position than a writing position.” He feels that the most important abilities he could bring to the position are in the areas of organization and leadership. Ferraro organized and managed the Lacrosse Club his freshman year. As Public Relations chairman for Sigma Phi Epsilon, he initiated and conducted the fraternity’s greatest fund-raising event ever, a dance marathon which netted $1,045 for the American Cancer Society. “The main reason why I decided to run for editor,” he states, “is that I believe my strengths lie where The Davidsonian’s weaknesses are. Being outside of the staff, I can objectively evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of the newspaper.” Ferraro says that, if elected, he would expect to work especially hard during the transition period, as well as afterwards. “You can learn about production and editing, but personal qualities like imagination and tenacity are really important too—and I have both of these qualities.”

In regard to reporting, Ferraro would like to see greater coverage of SGA meetings and of Senate actions as they affect the students. “If possible, I’d print the minutes of these meetings as well,” he says. Ferraro conceives the role of The Davidsonian as that of an “all-around informational paper.” To further the effectiveness of the paper in this role, he would expect his staff to generate “more news stories concerning local issues and national or state events which affect Davidson College students.” Ferraro sees a need for greater emphasis on art and cultural events, to be handled by a staff art editor. He would like to expand the present reviews on movies to cover other aspects of the arts. “Students need a helpful source of information on art, movies, concerts, and other similar events.”

Concerning newspaper operations, Ferraro feels that he “hasn’t really seen a great deal of communication within The Davidsonian staff. I think my experience in organizing things would help me make a more efficient system within the paper. I’m a firm believer in the chain-of-command concept of organization,” he says. “I would want to delegate more responsibility to the individual editors within their sections. My main responsibilities would be in organizing and keeping things running smoothly, but I will do whatever I have to do to help make it an excellent paper.” If elected, Ferraro says he “would like to keep as many editors and staff writers in their positions as possible. I don’t plan on any wholesale change in personnel.” As far as new younger staffers are concerned, he maintains that “getting freshmen and sophomores to work for The Davidsonian is an integral part of achieving a long-range excellence for the paper. I want people to view working for the newspaper as a constructive challenge,” says Ferraro. While he presently holds no future ambitions in journalism, Ferraro believes that he can make his greatest contribution to Davidson as editor of The Davidsonian. “The most important aspect of the paper is service to the student body. I am prepared to spend whatever time is necessary in order to make ours an excellent newspaper. Charles Erwin would be a great asset to any newspaper,” he concluded, “but my strengths are more in line with what The Davidsonian needs.”

A Nice Budget Price Gift... For the Kid at Home? Try Wall Posters At The Copeland House Gallery Tolkien, Star Wars, Argus, Springbok, Liberty, Sports, Scenic Jumbos, Handpainted Inspirational, Theme, Modern and Classic Matted Prints. 10 am–5 pm