January 20, 1978
The Davidsonian

POOR acting IN A Castle scene from “The White Cat,” by Davidson professor Rupert T. Barber, Prince Treeble [Kriss Childress]
completes the first of three quests in his rise to the throne of the Kingdom of Troate. Prince Treeble graciously
receives “the most beautiful little dog in the world” from his newfound love, Princess Blanchette [Karen Weir].

Studies ruffle memories

Two weeks have passed since the end of the Christmas holidays and in that time my professors have managed to
shovel on its memory seventeen homework assignments, three daily writs, two major tests, and a novel. The question “Whud juh
do over break?” has long since been replaced by “How’d your test come out?” and other even less worthy standbys.
What seemed so important to me two weeks ago has shriveled in significance and I now remember something that I
never even thought to tell about. I remember the Barn Owls.

Two nights before I rode back to college everything which I had planned for the holidays had been either done
or abandoned. I was ready to pack my suitcase and settle down with a few books. Then an old friend
called. He said that he had just come in from a walk through the decayed downtown section of my hometown.
He said that he had discovered a family of Barn Owls. It wasn’t long before I met him, along with
his brother and nephew, on a sidewalk in front of an old deserted Victorian house.

That’s atmosphere

“Hear 'um,” he said.
“Hear what?” I said. But by then I didn’t need an answer. An almost continuous raspy screeching, like the sound
of a metal raking broom being whisked across cement, was coming from a large oak tree across the street. We
stood in the dark and listened for a while. People walked by, talking loudly and occasionally laughing. Cars went in
and out of the grocery store parking lot up the street, sometimes with their windows down and radios whining loud
songs. Not one of these noises sounded so obnoxious as the birds.

Another Window
By CHARLES ERWIN
(Features Editor)

Suddenly there was a pallid waver in the sky and one of the young owls landed on a limb behind
us. We shot the flashlight on it. An adult bird passed over and tossed down a chestnut ball of fur.
The pale-bellied, cat-sized owl ripped into the flesh, threw up its monkey-face, arched its golden wings and swallowed.

“It’s a turtle. It’s a turtle,” yelled a little girl in a dark coat who had snuck up behind us
on the sidewalk. “It’s a turtle isn’t it?” She stared up intently.
“No. It’s an owl,” said my friend. Her expression did not change. Eventually, she became either frightened or bored and
left. Not wanting to frighten the owls from the area, so did we. Just before I got in my car
to go home, I paused. Two weeks later, hearing the raspy screech of Barn Owls like a rake being whisked
across cement floating by across the winter night above the noise of cars, I cannot forget.

Drama Barber delights with children’s play

(Editor's note: The first play ever written by Drama Professor Barber was so successful that an extra performance had to
be added. The Charlotte Observer even hawked it as last weekend's best entertainment bet for the area. In spite of
its reception, there are no plans for future performances. So we decided to break our rule about stressing past events
in order to print this review.)

By BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

“A New Play for Children,” reads the program cover of The White Cat. Nothing could be farther from the truth,
for Rupert T. Barber’s recent stage creation is an event for everyone. If Walt Disney Studios had first conceived the
notion of this play, it would soon be appearing on marquees.across the land as a major motion picture. Mr. Barber
has found for himself a wonderfully simplified creation that would rival Alice in Wonderland in imagination, but along lines that
a two-year-old can follow. Here the audience discovers a fairy tale set in unheard kingdoms of old, with a senile
king, a lovely princess, a daring prince, and a villain so hysterically amusing that his evil magic is anything but
threatening. The audience is first confronted by King Trosston of Troatt (Paul Schleifer) and Lord Triski, the Lord Most Helpful
(Joel Shirk). One soon discovers how Triski acquired his guardian angel title, for he and the king engage in a
fruitless search for the blind king’s glasses amongst the audience. Audience participation is essential, especially among the children present, for
the king and Triski question many youngsters as to the whereabouts of the “royal glasses.” Trosston fails to retrieve them,
accusing a boy in the crowd of sitting on them, and another boy of concealing the “royal scepter.”

The controlling idea of the play is a matter of great concern to the king, when he can remember it.
With Triski’s assistance, he comes to the realization that he has quite a “few loose screws in the attic,” and
must choose a successor among his three sons before the kingdom is lost. He decides to have a contest in
three parts, the winner to become the next monarch. The princes depart on their first mission, to find “the most
beautiful little dog in the world.”

The next scene takes us to the enchanted Two Kingdoms of Katzholm, where we find Princess Blanchette (Karen Weir) and
her Lady-in-waiting, Lady Minnue (Hilary Clouser). Princess Blanchette is in a very distressed state, for she has been turned into
a white cat by the sinister Purple Fairy (Tom Bessellieu). This is Mr. Bessellieu’s finest role ever at Davidson, and
he alone is worth going to see. Prince Treeble, the Youngest (Kriss Childress) soon makes his way to the castle
of Princess Blanchette, where they inevitably “tombent amoureux.” The princess produces “the most beautiful little dog in the world,” which
is so small that it lives inside an acorn. Treeble takes the dog to Troatt, winning the first contest.

The second contest sends Prince Triski (Ted Jones), Prince Trinlynn (Michael Garrett), and Treeble in search of “the finest cloth
in the world.” Once again, Princess Blanchette produces the goods for the love of her life, a cloth so fine
that it cannot be seen with the “royal magnifying glass,” only felt. Upon announcing Treeble as the winner of the
second contest, the king reveals that the cloth shall be used to make curtains in Pipsqueak’s room (the smallest, most
beautiful dog in the world).

The third contest sends the three princes off on a year-long adventure, to find “the most beautiful princess in the
world.” Of course, Treeble leaves once again for Katzholm, retrieving Princess Blanchette. The other two princes venture into a faraway
kingdom, returning with the daughter...

[See CAT, page 12]

COLLEGE SKI WEEK CARNIVAL AT KILLINGTON, VERMONT
January 2-6, 1978
* Five Day Lift Ticket
* Four Nights in Motel
* Nine Great Meals
* Ski 50 Runs, 3000 Drop
* Nightly Entertainment
* Dance to Live Bands
* Free Key Party
* Surprise Extras
ONLY $119.50 to $139.50

To receive all the details on this great trip, send this ad with your address to United Intercollegiate Skiers Association,
4040 South 28th St., Arlington, Va. 22206. (703) 578-3322 (No collect, please)

MBA Program?
The MBA Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has an excellent national ranking. Why? A distinguished
faculty, an outstanding student body, an innovative curriculum, and a reputation for quality among employers.

The University of North Carolina
Carroll Hall, 012-A, Drawer 687
Chapel Hill, NC 27514
