September 22, 1978 - The Davidsonian

Students shirk WDAV’s classical quota

Article from the Charlotte Observer
September 15, 1978
By RON ALRIDGE

Davidson College's administration has ordered its campus radio station to play more classical music, and the student volunteers who run the station are upset. The 18,500-watt station, WDAV (89.9 FM), which broadcasts from 7 a.m. to 1 a.m. every day, already devotes about a third of its programming to classical music. Dr. Sam Spencer, Davidson's president, has ordered that increased to 50 percent on Nov. 15.

WDAV’s student staff, a group of about 60, objects. Led by elected General Manager Carrington Thompson, the staffers claim the extra classical music will come at the expense of other programming, which includes rock, folk, jazz, and educational broadcasts. And, Thompson adds, people in the administration are wrong if they think the students are upset purely because they don’t want classical to bump some of their beloved rock ’n’ roll off the air.

“We’re not seeing it as rock vs. classical: We’re seeing it as rock vs. everything else,” he said Thursday.

Editor’s Note—Thompson claims that what he meant was, “We're seeing it as classical vs. everything else."

NOT ANTI-CLASSICAL

The administration-ordered boost in classical programming, Thompson said, is unfair to listeners who prefer more varied programming and to staffers whose interests and talents lie in programming other than classical music.

Earl Lawrimore, Davidson's director of news and photography, says the private college, in northern Mecklenburg County, has planned all along for WDAV to put more emphasis on classical music. In boosting the station from a tiny 10-watt operation to its present status earlier this year, college trustees, who hold the station’s license, promised to make WDAV “predominantly” classical, Lawrimore said, to fill a void in the local radio market. The administration interprets that to mean at least half of the station’s programming must be classical music.

Don Lovell, the salaried director of the station, says WDAV would have been broadcasting more classical music all along if necessary albums and staffers had been available.

NO PLEDGE?

Thompson, a senior who has worked at WDAV since his freshman year, says he finds no evidence that anyone ever pledged to make the station predominantly classical.

---

Coming of Age

Editorial from The Charlotte Observer
September 18, 1978

Suddenly, the question for noncommercial, or public, radio in Charlotte has become not whether, but what kinds. The Charlotte area is going from getting no noncommercial FM signals to three (four, if you are able to pick up UNC’s Chapel Hill transmitter, which has just doubled its power to 100,000 watts). The trick will be for those noncommercial voices to stake out different sorts of programming.

WDAV, the Davidson College station, has been broadcasting an 18,500-watt signal since May. WPRV, the state-owned South Carolina station in Rock Hill, added its 100,000-watt signal in July. Now WFAE, the 10-watt UNCC station, will get the federal money to buy the equipment to become a 100,000-watt station. WFAE station manager Robert Pittman hopes to be on the air by next June.

What kind of noncommercial broadcasting mix will the stations make? South Carolina’s contribution is likely to be distinctly secondary. Its Rock Hill station simply passes on Columbia's programming. During the school year, except during vacations, it broadcasts instructional programming during the day.

Davidson and UNCC are the mostly classical music core for this region, and the two schools ought to be thinking about how their efforts can complement one another. That won't be easy, because students, faculty, staff, and community all need a say in what goes on the air. Davidson, for instance, is under instructions from its trustees to develop into a fine-arts station. Some of the student broadcasters, however, would rather play more rock music, offering more of what is found already on commercial stations.dilemma for Davidson. The school’s hope of building community support for its station is unlikely to succeed unless WDAV has a specific identification. If the identification is rock, who needs it? At UNCC, WFAE is hoping to be three things: a public radio station serving the community, a “public relations tool for the university,” in manager Pittman’s phrase, and a training ground for student broadcasters. That is a much larger concept than Davidson’s plan for a fine-arts station from a much larger institution than Davidson. But it is no more than a concept. As the two schools translate those concepts into practice, they ought to be talking with one another. The result should be more variety, and that is much of the promise of noncommercial radio.

pledged to make the radio station more heavily classical than it already is. After researching paperwork college officials submitted to the Federal Communications Commission two years ago in an effort to win the power increase, Thompson concludes: “We currently are playing more classical music than they ever proposed to the commission.” Thompson and his staff, whose position is supported by the college’s student newspaper, The Davidsonian, plan to meet with the board of trustees executive committee in October or November. They hope to persuade the trustees to reduce the 60 percent requirement, or at least pledge not to order still more.

On one hand, the school’s radio station must serve its own students; indeed it depends on them to stay on the air. Classical music undoubtedly is not big with most students. Then again, in boosting its power, WDAV also serves the general community, where classical music has traditionally been in short supply.

FREEDOM NEEDED

Then there’s the complicating question of student freedom, which good colleges, including Davidson, generally encourage. Just as student newspaper staffers should be reasonably free to produce their publications, student broadcasters should enjoy maximum freedom to run their radio stations. Balancing student freedom with the needs and goals of a college is often difficult. WDAV’s student staffers suspect the administration is more concerned with Davidson College’s lofty public image than with their freedom and the needs of their listeners. The students see the classical music quota as heavy-handed and arbitrary. Spencer, the college, the students, and the trustees’ committee.

Letter to the Editor

Don't ‘rock’ back

To the Editor:

This summer when I was in the Boone area I was delighted to discover that WDAV came in very clearly over the 100 miles. I especially enjoyed the evening Symphonies, Concert Hall, and 750 Miles Off Broadway, and was happy to recommend the station and these programs to friends in the area. Many Davidson students now enjoy classical and semi-classical music and others will as these programs are interestingly programmed and presented. Last year when the high power, long-range station was being pushed, I had the impression that the student staff really wanted to “go big-time.” I had visions of a station and student staff becoming known for outstanding programs in this area. It will be a disappointment to many of us early supporters of the station if the student staff audience chooses to “rock” back to the former small campus station. One would hope that the student staff and administration can peacefully cooperate in setting up guidelines for the control and programming of the station.

Marjorie M. McCutchan
Retired Library Staff Member

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week's issue.

The Copeland House Gallery Art Office School 10 a.m. - 5 p.m.