4 The Davidsonian September 22, 1978

Complete text of Academic Vice-President Price

The complete text of Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann’s Code of Faculty Evaluation, as revised with the Professional Affairs Committee, follows.

1. PREAMBLE

The goal of Davidson's appointment and evaluation procedures is to recruit and retain for the faculty outstanding men and women who will carry on the College’s mission as set down in the Statement of Purpose. Article IV, Section 5 of the Trustees’ By-Laws sets forth the President’s basic charge with respect to the recruitment of faculty members. The qualities of the ideal teacher are easy to delineate, difficult to realize. The exemplary college professor would no doubt be a scholar widely respected by his or her peers in the field, who is not only excited about the prospect of learning and discovery but capable of communicating this excitement to others, a teacher deeply concerned with the welfare of students and eager to have them learn and grow, one who succeeds in capturing their imagination, who teaches not only by books but by personal example, who is demanding yet compassionate, always maintaining a sense of just proportion and ever respectful of the moral worth of individual students and their potential for intellectual and spiritual growth. No one teacher is likely to realize all of these attributes in the highest degree, but the College must continually seek to recruit men and women who strive to do so to the greatest extent possible. Moreover, a church-related college which is faithful to its heritage has the obligation of securing for its faculty teachers and scholars who, above and beyond their professional commitments, are sensitive to needs and problems which transcend local, regional, and national boundaries, who uphold the highest ethical ideals and whose motive is service.

Because of the foregoing considerations, Davidson's evaluations concerning persons for its faculty cannot be bound exclusively by standards employed elsewhere in the profession, nor by holistic nature. Successful teaching involves to a great extent the personal and moral qualities as well as the intellectual capabilities of the teacher, making it difficult to establish rigidly precise standards of excellence. Within any group even of highly successful teachers, there will be a variety of approaches and styles of teaching—all of which, from the standpoint of the experience of the students, is highly desirable. Indeed, not every student finds the same teacher exciting or stimulating. Hence, as with any process involving human interaction, it is inevitable and necessary that judgments at Davidson will contain a subjective element. What is important is that judgments at all stages in the process be made as conscientiously and as fairly as possible both to the individual and to the institution, and that the perspective taken be the welfare of the entire community and the achievement of its goals.

Procedurally, the means by which the College arrives at its judgments must be clear enough to be fair, yet flexible enough to accommodate individual circumstances and to secure for the College the various strengths which it requires. For the protection of both the individual and the community, the procedures must entail strict confidentiality. They must include evidence obtained from department chairmen, colleagues, and students. They must also reflect the fact that ultimately college policy is defined by the Trustees, and that, as the chief executive officer, the President bears a special responsibility for the welfare of the enterprise as a whole. The Board of Trustees has affirmed that “the line of responsibility for determination of faculty needs and the search for persons to fill these needs flows from the Trustees to the President and through him to those specifically designated by him, primarily the Vice President for Academic Affairs.” However, if Davidson is to accomplish its mission in higher education, the difficult and sometimes painful task of upholding high standards in the recruitment and evaluation of faculty members must be conscientiously accepted and shared by everyone participating in the review process.

Finally, Davidson's faculty evaluation procedures must be closely related to institutional strategies for faculty development. The academic profession is a demanding one. Good teaching requires continual study and work to keep up with general developments in one’s field as well as advances in one’s specialty. In a liberal arts context, still further reading is required to achieve that understanding of related fields which makes possible conversation with colleagues and which assists students in integrating the various aspects of their intellectual experience at the College by providing living models of wide learning. Students are quick to perceive which of their instructors are active professionals, which are merely living on past capital. The College must see that evaluation and opportunities for development are linked in such a fashion as to nurture and reward the professional growth of those upon whom the teaching mission of the College is ultimately dependent. While it must inevitably function in some aspects as a mechanism for selection, nonetheless the overall aim of Davidson's evaluation process is to strengthen skills in teaching capacities. Evaluation procedures function best when their operation is seen as a means of improving individual performance, and hence the general sense of faculty professionalism, student satisfaction, and institutional morale.

II. CRITERIA FOR FACULTY EVALUATION

The three criteria for faculty evaluation at Davidson are (1) excellence in teaching, (2) demonstration of superior professional attainments in research, scholarship, and curriculum design, and (3) exemplification of the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands, as manifested in concern for students and service to both the institution and the wider community. Given the need to consider individual strengths from the standpoint of the College’s overall priorities, no precise weights valid for every case can be attached to each of these three areas. However, excellence in teaching is a necessary condition of consideration fortenure. In regard to the first criterion—excellence in teaching—evidence will be sought from the department chairman, colleagues in the department and in other programs in which the candidate has been involved, and from students as to the instructor's ability to communicate not only knowledge but enthusiasm for the subject. Also important are quality of imagination in perceiving the problems students encounter and skill in helping overcome them. Well-organized and stimulating lectures, skill in conducting discussions, and success in helping students learn to think analytically and express themselves cogently, both orally and in writing, are among the key components of successful teaching. It should be borne in mind that the College is seeking distinction in teaching, not simply adequate or generally competent performance.

With regard to the second criterion—students—in most instances students are not in a position to assess professional competence but they are in a position to comment on the instructor's enthusiasm, his or her concern for them, and whether or not they feel he or she has helped them in understanding the subject matter. They can testify to the instructor’s availability, fairness, concern for their problems and performance, and care in evaluating their work. The satisfaction of students with the instruction they are receiving at the time they are receiving it is an important ingredient in the morale of an institution. Through interviews, letters, or evaluation forms, students will be called upon to testify to their opinions regarding an instructor and their perceptions of his or her effectiveness.

Regarding the instructor’s impact on the intellectual life of the College generally, his or her interest in other disciplines, and the relationships of his or her particular discipline to other disciplines within the liberal arts framework.

With regard to the third criterion—exemplification of the intellectual and moral values for which the College stands—evidence will be sought from students, chairman, and colleagues in three areas: (a) concern for students, (b) service to the institution, and (c) service to the wider community. Davidson College’s emphasis on service in each of these areas stems from its belief as a Christian liberal arts college that it is the function of liberally educated men and women to lead lives of service to others and that it is imperative that the members of the faculty in their own lives serve as examples.

(A) Concern for students may be exemplified by the candidate’s availability to students, concern for their problems, and care and promptness in evaluating their work. The willingness to serve as a faculty adviser both to underclassmen and to majors is an important factor in this area, as is the faculty member's willingness to share personal experiences with students and to help them on an individual basis to realize their own potential.

(B) Service to the institution may be demonstrated in a variety of ways—participation and leadership in committee work at the faculty level, active participation in decisions at the departmental level, willingness to speak to groups of parents, trustees, or alumni, helping to build the library collection, and helping to obtain needed equipment in the instructor's areas of interest.

(C) Service to the wider community may be defined as a willingness to work for the welfare of others in the context of church, town, state, nation, and world through such organizations as church and civic groups, political organizations, or other religious, social, honorary, special interest, or athletic groups.

III. ROLES OF FACULTY, STUDENTS, AND ADMINISTRATION IN THE EVALUATION PROCEDURE

1. Faculty
As indicated in the statement of criteria, assessment by professional peers is fundamental to the evaluation procedures. Peers are in a position to make judgments regarding a colleague's mastery of his or her field and design of courses. They are in a position to evaluate research and publication and to gauge the impact of publications in the field. Colleagues are also in a position to reflect observations made by students regarding the teaching of other instructors. They are likewise in a position to measure an instructor's effectiveness when they encounter his or her students in their own courses.

2. Students
In most instances, students are not in a position to assess professional competence but they are in a position to comment on the instructor's enthusiasm, his or her concern for them, and whether or not they feel he or she has helped them in understanding the subject matter. They can testify to the instructor’s availability, fairness, concern for their problems and performance, and care in evaluating their work. The satisfaction of students with the instruction they are receiving at the time they are receiving it is an important ingredient in the morale of an institution. Through interviews, letters, or evaluation forms, students will be called upon to testify to their opinions regarding an instructor and their perceptions of his or her effectiveness.

3. Department chairmen
Although at Davidson department chairmen are not considered administrative officers, nonetheless, because of their responsibility for coordination of the work of the department, including encouragement of the continuing professional development of its members, they have an important role in the evaluation process. Normally it will be the chairman who conducts the most extensive review of the instructor’s course work, including syllabi, tests, and grades awarded, as well as the instructor’s research, publications, papers, and contributions to the department generally in the evolution of educational policy, participation in the development of library holdings, and so forth. Chairmen may visit the classes of members of the faculty on probationary appointments with a view not only to evaluation but to counsel and assistance in improving teaching performance.

4. Administration
In the matter of publication, quality will be deemed more significant than quantity. The College’s judgment will depend heavily on the assessment of the department chairman, colleagues in the department, and colleagues in other departments who have worked in closely related fields of research and scholarship. Evidence will include participation in summer and sabbatical programs, faculty seminars, attendance at the presentation of papers at professional meetings, research projects undertaken, and publications resulting from such activities. Evidence will also be sought regarding the instructor’s impact on the intellectual life of the College generally, his or her interest in other disciplines, and the relationships of his or her particular discipline to other disciplines within the liberal arts framework.