The Davidsonian
September 15, 1978

Problems with WDAV

WDAV: then and now
By CAROL LOPTSON
Asst. Focus Editor

Ed. Note: In a recent interview, former WDAV Station Manager Sid Barrett outlined the development and history of WDAV. Additional
research using original documents confirmed the statements.

1969
WDAV begins operation as a carrier-current station.

March, 1972
The WDAV Board of Directors, in a letter to President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., approves an application to build an
FM station.

September, 1973
WDAV becomes a 10-watt FM station, student-operated and programmed, featuring rock, jazz, news, and classical music.

June 24, 1976
WDAV goes stereo. Talk of expansion is revived.

February, 1977
In a memo to the WDAV staff, Spencer states that WDAV "is a legitimate student activity, and I fully understand
the importance of it, especially to those involved in its operation."

February 25, 1977
The Trustees approve the expansion to high power. Minutes of the meeting, not released to WDAV staff, state, "There was
discussion regarding an expansion of the range of radio station WDAV in order to cover Mecklenburg County and to fill
a need for a station playing primarily classical music. It was moved and seconded that the current plan for such
a high power radio station, including a capital outlay of up to 71,000 dollars, be endorsed, provided the College Administration
is assured of maintaining overall control of the station at all times. After discussion regarding...the advisability that a more specific
statement of purpose be drafted and presented to the Board...This motion was unanimously adopted."

March 19
From a taped interview (Continued on page 5)

Staff members fear loss of control
By CAROL LOPTSON
Asst. Focus Editor

The WDAV managing staff is disturbed by recent events in the 50 percent classical controversy and is afraid of losing
the station as students have come to know it. The main problem, as General Manager of WDAV Carrington Thompson sees
it, is that the staff does not want to play 50 percent of any type of programming, including jazz, rock,
folk, educational, or classical. Thompson said, "The staff wants quality, not quantity."

Thompson also sees several "corollary problems." "One, where does the programming authority lie? Two, who revoked the constitution and why?
Three, if there was any mention of 50 percent classical before April, it has yet to be found. There was
no mention of it that I know of." He continued, "Four, what’s the student's place going to be at WDAV?
Five, are they trying to get rid of students at WDAV? Six, where does the Board of Directors fit in?
Seven, who has the right to close a Post Office box when it’s paid for by student funds? Eight, are
we programming the station as a public service for our audience or as a fundraising proposition?"

Thompson sighs. Spencer says classical music is needed to raise money. According to Thompson, in the July 24, 1978 meeting—the
meeting where Spencer issued the 50 percent classical of all airtime directive—Spencer said that in the Charlotte Observer, a Davidson
student said we play classical because that is where the money is.

September 13, 1978
WFAE, the UNCC 10-watt station, has won the $122,034 federal grant it needs to buy equipment to boost its power
to 100,000 watts. The article said WFAE General Manager Bo Pittman said the FCC should approve the power boost any
day and the power boost should be accomplished by June. UNCC has not raised all of...the required $40,670 in matching
local funds. WFAE hopes to obtain National Public Radio (NPR) affiliation as soon as it is well-staffed and at full
power. As an NPR affiliate, Thompson expects WFAE to program primarily classical music along with some educational and news shows.
Also, in July, South Carolina’s state-owned 100,000 watt WPRV (88.9 FM), an NPR affiliate, started broadcasting from close by Rock
Hill. When asked about the effects of WFAE becoming a high power station, Thompson responded, “I hope they do. I
really just do not see us competing with them. Commercial radio is where the competition should be. We're here to
complement each other. What’s the use for us to program 50 percent classical music when they’re going to be doing
that? If we were to have such a narrow range of programming, I think it could be detrimental to the
College's image,” said Thompson. He elaborated, “If they’re billing this college as an institution of higher education committed to the
highest values, it seems contradictory to remove educational opportunities and do it through what we consider communication.”

Communication is a key issue in the controversy. Thompson said, “I think we've done more to keep communication open ourselves
than anyone else has.” Thompson said he’s seen Lovell every day. “At the end of last spring, Rob Payne (Publications
Director) was embroiled in a dispute with the administration. WDAY staffers continue present programming format. To talk to us. That
it was her business to talk to us.” “The communication we're working on right now is with the Trustees.” The
WDAV staff intends to try to talk with the Trustees at the upcoming meeting on September 21. “We want to
approach the Trustees with a program format that is going to satisfy the image they want to project as well
as serving the community with a diversity of excellent programming,” said Thompson. Thompson said the actual format to be presented
has not been drawn up, but he indicated there would probably be no radical changes from the present WDAV schedule.
As for improvements and future plans, Thompson said, “The main thing is we want to build up our jazz programming.
We're looking at building a really good news staff, adding network news as soon as we get authorization for it,
broadcasting live concerts from the 900 Room, and increasing locally produced educational programming.” According to Thompson, “We've established a tremendous
jazz audience.” Staff members said the audience response to jazz programs has been encouraging. Wilson stated, “We have had more
requests to expand our jazz programming at least 2 to 1 over anything else. Starting this next Monday, WDAV will
be adding two more hours of jazz programming a day for a total of four hours a day.” The staff
is enthusiastic and proud of the station’s progress since it went high power. “We're doing a damn good job now,”
emphasized Thompson. WBT of Charlotte has donated 2,300 records—classical, jazz, broadway, and movie soundtracks. “Because we have 780,000,” said Thompson.
Casey, Vice President of Operations and Manager of WBT, said, “You have a dynamite station. I spend more time listening
to y'all than to my own station.” “Every person on the managing staff and the people who’ve worked with us
before I think have really been working their best to make the station go,” stated Thompson. Mary Francis Leopold, Educational
Programmer, concluded, “All we ask is a chance to serve our audience and not just the Trustees. The Trustees are
55 people. Our audience is potentially two million people.”
