Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Volume LXVIII, Number Seven
October 20, 1978

From the Editor
In search of opinion

Last Monday I realized that I was a bureaucrat. Though I commanded my staff to “get out there and find out what's going on,” I myself was content to remain in the confines of my quiet Union office working on this special project, organizing that little detail. I was a busy bureaucrat, mind you, for there are countless projects to be undertaken and details to be organized at The Davidsonian. But a busy bureaucrat is still a bureaucrat. Enough of this, I resolved, stepping from my massive desk and exiting the isolated sanctuary of the office in search of opinion. Your opinion.

I slipped into the seat next to the professor as the buzzer sounded to begin class. Our instructor, new to Davidson, addressed the class: “Tell me, have most of the articles in the newspaper (The Davidsonian) about WDAV been basically true?” Several students shifted uncomfortably in their seats, one murmured something about the editor being in the class, then one student bravely volunteered a qualified semi-approval of the articles in The Davidsonian. Said the professor, “Well, I just talked to an older professor who said he didn’t understand why the students were so upset; he said it was clear to everyone from the beginning that WDAV would be primarily classical.”

“That’s bullshit” slipped involuntarily from the mouth next to the professor—my mouth. A brief hush, until several agreed that the older professor’s statement was indeed what I had labeled it. Before turning to the lecture, the class discussed the WDAV matter. Most seemed interested, a couple asked questions of me.

Not since spring 1977, when Davidson attracted national attention by hiring and firing a Jewish professor, could I recall a classful of students discussing a campus issue. In 1977 we boycotted Convocation in protest of the College’s action. What, if anything, will happen this time, I wondered.

Senior Mark Tyndall and Tinley clizenooe P raging reference made about them in last week’s article on Spencer’s first decade at Davidson. She said she’d heard that Sig Ep President Rick Kelly was going to write a letter to the editor that “really burned” Davidsonian. President Kelly's letter is on the opposite page. Take a moment to read it. It is a well-considered, carefully-written piece, and—I hope Kelly isn’t disappointed—I don’t think it “burns” The Davidsonian at all.

The paragraph Kelly questions read: “Today, Sig Eps still talk with bitterness about the way Spencer is said to have handled the matter (of self-selection).” There’s no sense in arguing my interpretation of that letter vs. Kelly’s. Though President Kelly insists that the fraternity’s official position is that it deeply respects Dr. Spencer, I believe I can find at least one and probably more Sig Eps who harbor ill will against Spencer over the self-selection battle. But that’s trivial nit-picking, and it misses the point I want to make.

Kelly’s letter may take a swipe at The Davidsonian, but in large part it pleads a different case. The letter seeks to dispel a stereotype that has haunted the Sig Eps for years—that the fraternity is a rowdy crowd of off-campus isolationists who can’t and don’t want to get along with anybody on campus. Kelly attacks that stereotype vigorously, and, I think, convincingly.

Kelly’s letter makes a specific complaint, keeps The Davidsonian on its toes, and goes on to add new information, a fresh perspective. In my sleep I dream that all letters to the editor will be thus. But we all have to put up with nightmares.

Rob Field’s letter is a nightmare. Fields has been reading a different Davidsonian than the one we publish every week. In the past six weeks my Davidsonian has been talking for students, fertilization and test-babies, new ta, homecoming, the pep band, gereaplation of natural gas, was one of those events we missed. Wrong. We'll call your hand on that one with an article and large picture on the Features section, two mentions on the Back Page, a letter on the editorial page, and in last week’s issue this year’s biggest front page picture of the Carowinds roller coaster with a caption reminder to pick up tickets for the big day.

Also in last week’s paper—Two articles on Bakke: if that’s not a national issue, (Fields says we should cover...them); then somebody better tell the Supreme Court, a whole bunch of lawyers, and about 1000 people, many of the students, who attended the Cohen-Dworkin Bakke debate this week.

—An article on Davidson’s international students—an important link between isolated Davidson and the world outside.

—An article on low-rent housing: I think a lot of the students who volunteer to help the folks across the tracks will tell you that inadequate housing is a major problem for the Davidson community.

—And on campus: Well, when the Trustee executive committee meets in special session to determine the fate of an activity that touches 60 student staffers directly and many others indirectly, we at The Davidsonian call that news and give it a lot of attention. When the Trustees assume full authority over the station, the student staff quits, and The Observer runs three articles on the controversy, we call that even bigger news, and we give it even more coverage.

The “facts” of your letter don’t support this charge of “narrowing scope,” and unless you have evidence still up your sleeve, I suggest that you fall silent.

My escape from the office this week was refreshing, enlightening, and time-consuming. The neglected special projects and details cry for attention and must heed the call. Only the editor's attention to detail will transform The Davidsonian from the amorphous mass that it is into something resembling an organized institution.

But I'm still interested in your opinions. Write. Leave a note in our office. Talk to me or another staffer. Comment, criticize, and, if anything meets your approval, let me know that too.

—Philip Sela

Letter to the Editor

Student points to ‘narrowing scope’

To the Editor:

In the past few weeks, I have noticed a trend in The Davidsonian which causes me some concern. The newspaper has continually narrowed its scope with each successive issue of this term. The articles which are published increasingly deal only with the ongoing “conversation” between students and the administration to the exclusion of much newsworthy material.

Last week’s issue (October 16, 1978) illustrates clearly the narrowing scope of the paper. Until one reaches the sports section, one cannot clearly conclude that more than a handful of students and faculty remain on campus. The articles and editorials of the rest of this issue deal overwhelmingly with the administration and the trustees in their relationship or non-relationship with the students and with non-campus oriented issues such as low-rent housing and Bakke. Activities outside the realm of the first floor of Chambers and the Union are overlooked or at most (two sentences on the Mean Green/Wildcat Scene) barely mentioned.

The newspaper is not serving its proper function of being an informative media when it fails to report all newsworthy events and thoughts—even those which are not spectacular or sensational. In addition, the student-elected editor of the newspaper is not fully fulfilling his responsibility to the student body, allowing the scope of The Davidsonian to be narrowed in this manner. I sincerely hope that this unhealthy trend can be reversed. With this reversal, The Davidsonian can once again serve as an active media in informing the student body and faculty of goings-on at all levels—international, national, community, campus, as well as administrative.

Rob Fields '81

Davidson College

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

News Editors
CHARLES ERWIN
MERIDETH DURDEN

Features Editors
BARRY SACHTJEN
DENNIS MCLAWHORN

Sports Editor
BILL PEEPLES

Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Photography Editor
BILL COWARD

Graphics Editor
GREGG STRADER

Circulation Manager
KAREN LONG

Copy Editor
DAVE ISENHOWER

Advertising Manager
ADAIR GREEN

Special Assignments Editor
LINDA HOOPES

Production Manager
ANN SHEAFFER

Special Assignments
AMANDA HALL

Department assistants:
News—Willingham; Editorial Page—Margaret Jackson; Circulation—Ricky Watson; Sports—Mike Britt, Jobe Sheri, Giravett; Photography—Phil Howerton; Special Assignments—Donya Boylston, Ralph; Production—Marietta.

The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the Union. Telephone: 882-2000, Ext. 290.