The Davidsonian

September 29, 1978

by JOHN EVANS
Staff Writer

A cross-town rivalry is brewing between the Davidson Wildcats and the UNCC 49ers and it all begins on Saturday, October 14 at Carowinds! The “Mean Green/Wildcat Scene” is a full day of fun and games topped by a barbecue picnic and dance. The Mean Green/Wildcat Scene pits the Cats against the 49ers in 10 events ranging from a Thunder Road Roller Coaster race to a Free Throw Shooting contest involving Coach Biedenbach and UNCC’s new basketball coach. There is also a water balloon toss contest from the Flying Dutchmen ride. Students, faculty, alumni, and friends of both schools are encouraged to attend. The hope is to enhance the new rivalry brought on by the Davidson-UNCC basketball game scheduled for Feb. 19 and begin a time of greater sharing between the two schools.

by BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Mrs. Barbara Biedenbach boasts that by the end of the academic year, Davidson’s cheerleading squad will surpass any other in the ACC, with the possible exception of UNC-Chapel Hill. Because Mrs. Biedenbach is the squad’s staff advisor, one may consider her optimism reasonably biased. However, she was the cheerleading captain at NC State for two years, and her experience qualifies her promising outlook.

Ten of the squad’s fourteen members are newcomers without college cheerleading experience. Captain Doug Crosby thought the squad should attend a nationally recognized cheerleading camp over the summer. Crosby ran into budgeting problems because the group’s budget from the athletic department is only $1000, not enough to purchase uniforms. Camp was therefore necessary but financially impossible, at a total cost of $930. Crosby set out last spring to cut red tape in acquiring additional funds.

Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann met with Crosby to discuss alterations in the athletic budget to serve the squad’s interest. Zimmermann did not agree with Crosby's request for more money. As has been the case in similar aspects of athletic budgeting, Wildcat Club Director Sandy Carnegie came to the cheerleaders’ rescue.

(see Practice, Page 8)

The taller the coaster, the faster it goes. Davidson must fill its coaster with students to beat UNCC in the upcoming race at Carowinds.

Win That Princely Roommate You Always Wanted—

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
8:30 am to 6 pm

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 11 TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Gail Crumley with ‘The Prince’ at the Village Store

A special prize will be awarded to the school which is the overall winner after the day's events. Carowinds will be open normal hours, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. Buses will be provided for Davidson students to and from Carowinds. Tickets for students, faculty, administrators, and alumni will be $7. This includes admission to the park and all its many attractions, a barbecue dinner, and a private party and dance for both schools. Those students on the ARA Slater full board plan can obtain a meal ticket for the barbecue picnic dinner in exchange for that Saturday evening’s meal, reducing the cost to $5. Tickets will be available for a limited time only from the Union beginning Monday. Thursday, Oct. 12 is the deadline for all ticket sales.

Stay tuned in for more details regarding the Mean Green/Wildcat Scene.

Cheerleaders score

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
DAVIDSON
TELEPHONE: (704) 892-6054