— 12 The Davidsonian September 22, 1978

Eminent scholar correlates science, theology

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

While Humanities students marvel at the near-impossibility of the multi-talented Elizabethan man, few realize that a handful of such men are alive and well in the twentieth century. In our day and age, we recall individuals like Albert Einstein, who could not only write the Theory of Relativity at a very young age but also play a violin as skillfully as a concert master and write treatises on peace as simple and eloquent as Woodrow Wilson.

Davidson is fortunate to have on campus next Sunday and Monday the first man to receive an honorary membership in the International Academy of the Philosophy of Science since Einstein over a quarter of a century ago. What makes the Reverend Dr. Thomas F. Torrance uniquely suited for this coveted membership is that he is a theologian, not a scientist. Torrance, for years, has schooled himself in higher mathematics and physics such that he goes beyond an ordinary theologian in conversing competently and comfortably with the scientists of the Academy.

While Dr. Torrance remains a traditional Scotch Presbyterian, a reform Calvinist with a conservative theology, his knowledge of the sciences allows him to relate Christian theology and science in a manner far surpassing his predecessors. His knowledge of both sides of this modern dilemma enables Torrance to correlate God's occupation of space to atomic physics. He thereby offers a unique approach to understanding the Holy Trinity, the oneness of Christ with God.

The Staley Lecturer for 1978-79 received earlier in the year the prestigious Templeton Prize, which McKelway hails as “the Nobel Prize for a theologian.” For additional information on Dr. Torrance’s visit to the Davidson campus, see the itinerary on the Back Page or call Dr. Sam Maloney, the coordinator for the series.

DC students marry in DCPC

By VIRGINIA ROBERTSON
Staff Writer

Why choose to get married in Davidson rather than in one’s hometown? This past summer, for example, DCPC hosted two alumni weddings. Will Terry and Rush Otey, when posed with the question, offered a variety of opinions.

Many of the Davidson faculty, Will Terry, and Rush Otey are often asked to participate in the marriage of students. Marriages that take place in Davidson are often held outside as the campus lends itself well to outdoor functions.

Rush Otey says that he can remember about five students’ weddings that have taken place since the college went coed. He (Gregg Strader) notes that coeducation has led more couples to him as they plan their weddings following graduation. The Davidson campus is a special place to marry couples who meet here at school, so some choose to be married here for sentimental reasons. The landscape of the campus lends itself to both outdoor weddings and receptions.

DCPC is chosen for various sizes of weddings. The church will hold almost one thousand people and yet is convenient for weddings with light attendance. Dean Terry feels that some couples will marry here and use Chambers Art Gallery or even the Honors Center for their reception rather than renting a club and caterers.

Davidson students whose families have moved or separated often find the campus neutral grounds to gather for a wedding ceremony. Away from their hometown churches, many couples feel more freedom to write their own ceremonies and to feel that they are planning their own weddings. They can include more of their own friends rather than entertaining their parents’ friends.

“The financial burden of a wedding brings some couples to consider getting married in Davidson,” according to Will Terry. One religion professor recalls that he has accepted only one wedding gift from a groom although he has participated in many weddings. His common practice was to return the gift to the bride but when one groom handed him a case of liquor he could not refuse.

Organizations follow up on Activities Fair interest

By TAINE ALISON
Staff Writer

Hundreds of students attended the Activities Fair this year. There on the Union Patio, students signed lists indicating their interest in various extra-curricular activities. What actually happens to all those sheets of names? The Davidsonian talked to leaders of several campus groups and found a variety of approaches to incorporating those interested students.

Whit Boone was at the Activities Fair and talked to all those...Who signed up for the Union Concert Committee. He explained that the committee needs a core group of ten to twelve students to work throughout the year. These contacts them when help is needed for a specific special event. The Union Cultural Committee, under the direction of Jim Patton, systematically mailed out notices of the first meeting to each person who signed up during the Activities Fair. At this meeting, interested students can find out more details about the workings of the committee. WDAV relies on staff members to contact each person on the list. According to Robert Payne, the students were informed of an organizational meeting. There they could specify their areas of interest.

One of the most thorough procedures for contacting interested students is that of the YM/YWCA Service Corps. President Glen Darbyshire said each person who signed their list was given a brief explanation of the various projects sponsored by the different blocks of the Service Corps. The students signed up under the block that most interested them and then were informed of the organizational meeting. At this meeting, the students found out more details about the different blocks. Most importantly, those who had signed up at the Activities Fair but who were not at the meeting will be contacted personally within the next two weeks.

The Davidsonian also uses a personal approach to incorporating interested students. Students who signed up at the Activities Fair are contacted individually on an as-needed basis. “We’re not concerned with getting scores of freshmen on the staff first term,” explained. “Rather, we concentrate on incorporating them gradually and training them thoroughly.”

In contrast to other organizations, the Davidson Christian Fellowship members depend on word-of-mouth rather than a systematic procedure to contact interested students. Mike Lins, president, pointed out that unlike most groups, DCF’s purpose was not to recruit workers. Instead, DCF aimed to make people aware of the organization and to invite them to an introductory meeting the following Wednesday night. According to Lins, this meeting was attended by a large percentage of those who had signed the list at the Activities Fair.

By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

Anyone who attended Davidson’s first football game may have noticed a group of people wrapped in sheets during halftime. Right, folks, that is Davidson's Pep Band. The Pep Band is a group of students, professors, and townspeople who can play an instrument and want to join. Stuart Baskin, a sophomore, heads the Pep Band. His jobs include writing the shows, picking the music, and calling rehearsals. “I provide basic leadership and give some sort of direction.”

Forming ideas for the halftime shows takes the most time. The available music sets definite boundaries. Once Stuart has an idea, he asks friends who are not involved with the band for their opinions. Previous funding for the Pep Band came from the Athletic Department. This year, however, the Pep Band has connections with the Music Department. Dr. William Lawing is the faculty advisor; the first that the band has had. A Davidson graduate of 1973, he once played in the Pep Band himself. Dr. Lawing was also present in his toga at the first home game.

The Pep Band plays for the fall and winter terms. The football season runs smoothly, but during basketball season it is hard to get people to play. Basketball games are, however, the Pep Band’s main concern. The band helps add interest and bring out student support. Baskin feels that the basketball team has potential in the big league; therefore, student support is especially important. Baskin is disappointed in the number of band members (about 35) that turned out for the first football game. He senses that there is the possibility of having 50 players. A larger group would add not only depth to the music but also to the appearance on the field. Anyone interested in the Pep Band who did not make the first game should come next Friday at 2:00 p.m. to the rehearsal in the band room. The only other rehearsal will be on Saturday at 10:30 a.m. on the field.

The follow-up work of contacting interested students is crucial to the success of the Activities Fair. Though procedures differ, most groups do use the lists of names to incorporate new people into their programs. Because of this extra effort, all the fun and confusion on the Union Patio leads to meaningful participation in extracurricular activities.