January 27, 1978 — The Davidsonian

Advisory Councils: First in a series
[Gregg Strader]

Open end 3 Trustees defined
By HELEN WHITE
Staff Writer

Misconceptions among students prompted Assistant to the President Gary Barnes to lead an open-end discussion Tuesday about the nature and function of the trustees. The trustees have "complete ownership, management, and control of the College" according to Davidson’s constitution. Barnes explained that the 46 non-paid members are the highest authorities in the campus hierarchy. The President of the College serves as a consultant to this group.

Finance committee oversees budget
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

In spite of a prevailing sense of unity and cooperation, several members of the Finance, Personnel, and Development Council, an advisory committee of the Student Government Association (SGA), feel the Council is hindered by its poorly defined purpose. The Constitution of Davidson College states that the Council “is consulted by the President...at stages which permit orderly consideration of the Council’s advice prior to the final formulation of the budget.” (Article IV, Paragraph 2.)

Council Secretary Lauren W. Yoder noted that the committee has been "pressured for time in implementing the budget process" and has not been able to define its goals. Yoder further noted that the other primary aspects of the committee’s concern, personnel and fund raising (development), had been almost completely neglected.

SGA President Thom Young echoed Yoder’s concern. "I wonder if our scope is too big. Maybe there should be a separate finance committee.” Young added that a body should exist to deal with the personnel and development areas, especially if the budget recommendations require longer to formulate in the future.

Professor of Sociology Robert Ruth, the committee chairman, could not be reached for comment. The group consists of six teaching members of the faculty appointed by Spencer, three students selected by the Senate each Spring, as well as several ex officio officers. Serving presently are Ruth, Yoder, Professor of Mathematics Benjamin Klein, Professor of History Malcolm Lester, Professor of Economics Glenn Lindsey, and Professor of German Thomas Pinkerton. The students are Jim Kuster, Bruce Lantelme, and Thom Young.

Scholarship seeks
By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Leaders of the Stuart Scholarship Program and current Stuart Scholars met at Davidson last weekend to organize selection committees and discuss final plans for the February 18 District interviews. The Program Directors, on the basis of applications, have narrowed the field of about 400 candidates to 64 semi-finalists. Following District Interviews, the regions will invite a total of 16 to final interviews at Davidson March 14-15. The four scholarship winners will be announced around April 1.

Four full scholarships, renewable each year, are being offered. Last year, the first year of the program, the Stuart Foundation gave two $2,000 and seven $500 awards. The change, explained Program Director Seddon Goode, is due to the appeal of more competitive scholarships in relation to those offered across the country. The Foundation extended the Program to Virginia, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Alabama this year. North Carolina and Florida were the sole participants in 1977.

In 1976, friends and classmates of alumnus Ed Stuart set up the program in his memory with the purpose of attracting strong Christian leaders to Davidson. The scholarship is based solely upon merit. The application stresses four criteria: Christian character, leadership, scholastic achievement, and "vigorous outlook." A student may not apply for the scholarship. He must be recommended by an alumni chapter or by his principal. Scholars, once at Davidson, are expected to "keep up their scholastic ratings" and "to bring honor to themselves and honor to the school," said Goode.The main activity of the Council is an “awareness of faculty needs and student needs in the budget-making process.” This year’s recommendation to College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. included funds for cost of living increases for faculty salaries, lighting of tennis courts, faculty research, and library expansion, in terms of both periodicals and books. The SGA President described the latter as “a great selling point for the school.” Yoder pointed out that an open meeting was held for the first time in the Fall to augment faculty-student input for their recommendations. A particular area of concern was the large increases in book prices and periodical rates within the last year. Many reiterated Young’s view that the library budget must not fall behind the yearly rate of inflation, which would ultimately reduce its quality. Both Young and Yoder cited the tone of cooperation within the committee itself, though Yoder stated that some faculty members outside the body are “leery over increased allocation of funds for athletics.” Opinions of the professors are solicited each Fall for incorporation into the Council’s recommendations. After the Council reviews its findings in November and December, the suggested findings are sent to Spencer for consideration. If Spencer rejects the recommendations, he is required to inform the Trustees of the decision and of the findings in what Young sees as an important check on the school administration. Preliminary reports on the budget will be completed within the next two weeks, and the final draft will be considered by the Trustees in mid-February. The majority of the Trustees are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and Florida. Other members are chosen by the Trustees themselves on the basis of merit and contribution to the College. All members serve four-year terms and most can be re-elected for three successive terms before having to relinquish their positions. A one-year period of inactivity is necessary before the candidate is again eligible to serve. Barnes said that within the body of Trustees the most powerful group is the executive committee made up of chairman, vice-chairman, and secretary (all one-year posts, renewable indefinitely). Although the Trustees as a whole convene only three times a year, the executive committee meets at least twice as often and may declare policy decisions by which all Trustees are bound, without general consent of the board. The present group of Trustees, like the student body, is mostly from the South, and ranges in age from 40 to 65, Barnes pointed out. Although no one profession dominates the group—the ministry, business, and education are all represented—all but two members are male. The Trustees will be on campus February 16 and 17. Barnes said that there will be several opportunities for student input—at receptions, dinners, or through Student Government President Thom Young, who is given the opportunity to voice opinions at each of the three annual meetings. He added that students may at all times contact Trustees by letter or through him if they have any further questions.

TO YOUR VALENTINE FROM VALENTINE
Send $1.00 with addressed Valentine for carefully timed mailing with message from America's “Heartlands.”

HAPPY HOURS
Thursday & Friday 8:30 - 10 PM
Take Outs 892-8586