The Davidsonian

March 31, 1978

SENIOR CARL MacPhail is a talented performer who consistently is a top point getter for the undefeated trackmen. The team travels to Appalachian this weekend and will host the Davidson Relays Spring Frolics Weekend.

[Gregg Strader]

Tennis team sharpens game for conference opponents

By DAVID REICH
Staff Writer

The Davidson Men's tennis team boosted its overall record to 13-2 with an impressive 6-3 victory over Atlantic Christian. This win capped a week and a half of undefeated team play in which the Cats won sixty-seven individual matches and lost only four.

Nevertheless, Coach Frank wishes some of these matches were closer. He stated, "Naturally, I’m happy that we are playing well enough to win by such lopsided scores, but we are not trying to run the score up on our opponents.” Frank pulled each player in the top six out of at least one match for rest and often switched the doubles teams to let everyone play. Frank also emphasized that Davidson was not playing weak teams. For example, one of Davidson's recent victories was over Michigan State who has 40,000 students and five full tennis scholarships. As Frank said, “When a school has 40,000 students to choose from plus tennis scholarships, they are going to have six players who can swing a good racket.”

Davidson’s match with Atlantic Christian also typifies the stiff competition the Wildcat netters have faced this year. Entering the match, Atlantic Christian had several key victories under their belt including a win over Wake Forest. Nevertheless, strong doubles play and key singles victories by Chip Bondurant, Harry Griffith, and Brian Cooper netted the Cats a crucial victory.

Needless to say, Frank is extremely pleased with the team’s play. However, he has been disappointed with the lack of a consistent college turnout at the matches. Frank stated, “I feel the students are missing very enjoyable matches here. Strong student support can supply the vocal encouragement needed to make a tremendous difference in the outcome of a match. We have twenty-five home matches and five away matches, and yet without crowd support the advantage of playing at home is non-existent.”

Frank’s emphasis on crowd support becomes more important in the next three weeks as the Cats tackle the toughest part of their schedule including Appalachian, Washington and Lee, Furman, and powerful North Carolina State.

April Fool’s Day

The Village Store of Davidson N.C.

Doug Horn won the 800 meter

Trackmen win again

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team upped its record to 3-0 last Saturday, sloshing to a 96-66 win over Lynchburg College on a cold, wet afternoon which was reminiscent of the grim weather so frequently in evidence last January.

Apparently very much at home in the all-too-familiar environs, the Wildcats managed to record some of their best times and distances of the season, and, after repeatedly trading the lead with Lynchburg during the initial phase of the meet, the team outscored its opposition 42-13 in the last eight events to register its most impressive victory of the year.

Junior Carl MacPhail, whose versatility is rivaled only by his seemingly boundless energy in running from one event to the next, scored 19½ points in winning the triple jump, the high jump, and the 400 meter intermediate hurdles, taking second in the high hurdles, and running a leg on the victorious mile relay team.

Davidson's distance team also performed well. Captain Doug Horn won the 800 meter and the steeplechase while Coty Pinckney, after valiantly kicking down the home stretch to finish a close second to Lynchburg ace Ken Brady in the 1500 meter, easily captured the 5000 meter in yet another school record clocking (15:44.2).

In the weights, Jerry Taylor was granted the opportunity to throw his specialty, the hammer, for the first time this year, and the massive senior managed a fling of 138’5”, bettering his nearest opponent by more than 30 feet.

In addition to the men’s competition, an intrepid little band of twelve Davidson women opposed a larger and more experienced female squad from Lynchburg and managed to put up a very respectable battle in losing, 59-39.

Freshman Nancy Wright led the Wildcattes, taking first in the 1500 meter and second in the 400 meter.

Davidson's next meet is April 1, when the trackmen face Appalachian State at Boone. The following Saturday the college hosts the Davidson Relays in which approximately thirty schools will participate.

GRADY BARNHILL at number one position has been playing well for the tennis team. Above, Barnhill smashes a serve in a tough win against Michigan State.

[Gregg Strader]

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.