January 20, 1978
The Davidsonian

IMAC Report - By BAD BERNARD AND HOGMAN

In this, the beginning of our third season, we hope to start a new tradition that will last as long
as hair remains on Will Terry's head: the Bad Bernard-Hogman Sportsman of the Year Award. In keeping with the move
toward greater rights for the lesser sex, we have shunned such superstars as Pele and the incomparable Steve Cauthen in
order to present this deserving award to the gorgeous Cheryl Tiegs. Her 1977 performance gave us all many a thrill
and lift when we were down. In her recent SI pictorial, she displayed the barest essentials for what we can
only classify as raw talent.

For recognition, Cheryl will receive a night on the town with the leisurely attired Ronald Scott, beginning with a top-of-the-line
dinner (up to $1.50 and one entree) at the James Bailey House. She will then be whisked to the Morrison
Room of the Union for an Indian bagpipe concert by O. Howie Phartz and, before she has a chance to
catch her breath, it’s on to the 900 Room where Cheryl will be dazzled by a quaint sing-along with the
Nichols. Her evening will culminate with a raunch and roll dance in Belk quad--music provided by Silk Spun. Congrats Cheryl.

BB&H declare

Bernie and Hogman would also like to begin our new year by rectifying the grievous error committed by both major
college football polls over the break. We certainly have no intention of criticizing the Pope-loving jerks that call themselves AP
Sportswriters, so we now quietly present the corrected Top Ten Football teams in America:

1. Tie: Arkansas/Alabama
2. Texas
3. Oklahoma
4. Kentucky
5. Fla. State
6. San Diego State
7. Washington
8. Nebraska
9. Ole Miss

Others receiving consideration but eliminated because they were from the North: Notre Dame, Ohio State, Penn State, Michigan, Pittsburgh. Put
that in your bagpipe and smoke it, Dan.

Over the Holidays, Lloyd Free had the pleasure of spending a few days with us. "All World" departed quickly for
some business at Guilford but left us with his valuable and objective opinion of the IMAC B-League:

“After a full year of writing a lot about nothing, Bad Bernard and Hogman have given up and handed me
the great honor (?) of writing about the Davidson B-League. I have made a brief study of each team; and
here are my findings:

Cagers show improvement
By PERZ Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team lost a pair of tough games during the past week, but not before a good deal
of improvement was exhibited. Last Thursday, the Wildcattes lost to the Camels of Campbell College, 67-60, in a game which
saw the officials call 17 fouls against Davidson. Chief victims of the officials’ wrath were Sarah Womack and Cindy Morrison,
who fouled out with 16 and 11 points respectively. High scorer was co-captain Beth Tanner with 20 points.

The offense displayed consistently good passing and ball handling. They were able to run their patterned offense well and as
a result, four players scored in double figures. The biggest setback the women received was when Womack was lost early
in the second half. As top scorer against Campbell last year with 30, she was naturally keyed upon by her
opponents.

Last Monday night, the women dropped a tough game to an undefeated squad from Lenoir-Rhyne, 72-58. The main drawback suffered
by the Lady Wildcattes was a severe height disadvantage. Lenoir-Rhyne worked the ball in their center, who at 6'1", dominated
the boards and scored 29 points, despite tough defensive play by Morrison. Lenoir-Rhyne was forced to work the ball into
the middle because of the good outside defense headed by co-captains Tanner and Sally Bondurant. Tanner, coming off an ankle
injury sustained in the Campbell game, played on the second half and held Lenoir’s high-scoring point guard to one bucket.
After only trailing by five at the half, the girls were down by no more than 10 points for the
remainder of the game.the game. They stayed with Lenoir-Rhyne and remained within striking distance, only to be thwarted by the
clock. As in the Campbell game, the women played well and it was perhaps their best game all year. The
scoring was again balanced, owing to the quick movement on offense. Womack was the leading scorer with 18, Morrison had
11, Donna Ferren managed 10, and Tanner chipped in 9. Next week the women play two games in the Coliseum.
On Monday, they face UNCC at 5:30 and two days later they go against Pembroke at 5:30.

The Big Daddy Conoscos Family--A member of the NCAA (No Class At All) that seems to have returned to the
B-League just to beat up on poor undertalented teams again. With the 6’9” Benninghoff in the post and the immortal
library rat John Zambos, they seem to be loaded again. They lost Designated Fighter Dave Herrington (who was last seen
on the other end of Gary Joe Stokes’ fist) from last year’s championship team and that may hurt them in
the final rounds.

The Red F. Cush Hounds--Still undefeated in their division despite the play of Mike Barnhill. Mike’s nickname is “give and
go”--Give me the ball and go to hell. For the fourth year in a row he is leading the league
in shots taken and shots missed.

Slauoul--A dark horse team imported from the East. Lineup includes such stars as Sahibb, Ishmauuul, Mohamed Weetie, Mustaua, Kareem, Mamood,
and the great Slauoul. Unfortunately, they have had defensive problems because they bow to the east after every basket. They
are true winners coached by the one known as Kissmatool.

Ragmen--Better known as the gentlemen from the ‘White House.’ Napper and Broome are the forwards and they can both play.
The remaining question to be answered is ‘Will Alfred Rhyne be able to make the big layup when it counts?’

Ain't She It--All indications show that this team is just what their name says they are.

There were a lot of other people on some of the courts during the three nights I was here, but
I could not discern which teams the players were on or what sport they were playing. I guess it was
some of the bottom “B” Leaguers. I must get on back to Philly, so be sure to make good use
of what Mother Nature gave you before Father Time takes it away.

Solid, Lloyd--now we know why you play basketball. Next week we will be back with all the good “A” League
news (including our infallible BB-H-Man Top Ten) as well as an award-winning short story entitled, “Where did our coach go?”
Later.

[David Litaker]

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls) on the coast of North
Carolina. Camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus all usual camping activities including swimming and a wide variety of major
sports. Opportunities available for graduates and undergraduates who are LOOKING FOR MORE than just another summer job. Qualifications include excellent
character references, ability to instruct in one phase of the camp's program, and a genuine interest in working with young
people. Food and lodging furnished; plus the opportunity of sharing in a highly purposeful and challenging experience. Quick answer upon
receipt of letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of the camp
program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.

Openings for graduate nurses. Good salary. Camp Sea Gull/Camp Seafarer, June 6 - August 18.
