December 1, 1978 The Davidsonian

Local business community exploits birthday of Jesus

By KAREN HESTER
Staff Writer

“Of all the celebrations of the year, Christmas still produces more human energy, more frustration and anger, and more sales and profits,” said Bob Kochtitzky, author of the Alternative Celebrations Catalogue. Kochtitzky was one of the speakers at the Alternative Lifestyles Symposium sponsored by the Y Student Service Corps in October. His movement toward a simpler, less consumption-oriented Christmas is being followed by a group of students on the Davidson campus.

Senior Liz Holmes explains, “We want to encourage everybody, especially freshman halls and eating houses, to seriously evaluate the way they celebrate Christmas.” The group is encouraging eating houses and freshman halls to participate in service projects before Christmas break. The Y Student Service Corps has a list of projects including winterization of homes and caroling at hospitals. “We want to get students to celebrate Christmas creatively,” says senior Bonnie Wright. “There are so many other things to do than the traditional eating house dinner and dance.”

The interest in alternative Christmas celebrations was fired by Kochtitzky’s statistics: He noted that excess retail sales during the last three months of the year are near $10 billion. Kochtitzky writes in the Alternative Catalogue, “The business community exploits the birthday of Jesus. For instance, from the Neiman-Marcus Christmas Book: Full-dimensional life-size dummy of your favorite person programmed to laugh at your jokes or say yes in any language you choose at the touch of a remote control button -- $3000.”

Senior Tom Niblock comments, “It’s sobering to think that we spend all that money while millions of people are starving. We're challenging Davidson students and faculty to celebrate Christmas in a more simple, meaningful way.”

The interested group, using the Alternative Catalogue as a resource, has several ideas for Christmas celebrations. For groups, they suggest a craft fair, a gift-making workshop, a tree-decorating party with homemade ornaments, or buying and planting a tree. The following suggestions are for individuals: make your own Christmas cards, send cards only to those to whom a letter is also sent, drastically reduce spending, establish a family tradition of giving money to hunger or another welfare project, use public transportation, bicycle or walk for shopping, spend some time every day for quiet meditation, adopt a pet from the humane society, write a family history for a gift, share a hobby, give coupons for your time, or make a contribution to a charity in someone’s name.

The students emphasize that they hope everyone at Davidson will take these ideas and carry them over into their own homes. “It will be hard to change all of our thinking about the celebration of Christmas, though,” comments sophomore Barb Ashley. Although the Y will not conduct a Christmas fund drive this year, it is concerned with two projects to which the Davidson community can contribute. The first of these, the Morris Fork Craft Project, is located in a small Kentucky community with little economic opportunity.

DAVIDSON STORE windows abound with Christmas gift ideas, another reminder of the commercialism of Christmas.COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

GRAND OPENING
Order Christmas Flowers Now!
See Our Christmas Display
(Phil Howerton)

The project provides local craftsmen with a market for their wares, thus preserving traditional skills as well as producing income. Money is needed for tools and craft materials. The other project is located at two schools in Kenya where Roger Brown '78 and Dave Keller ’78 are now teaching. The schools need money for books, lab equipment, and the construction of a dorm. Anyone wishing to contribute should contact any Y member.

Dec. 7-8-9

THE NEW rule banning live Christmas trees in Davidson dormitories has resulted in artificial ones that more nearly resemble bottle brushes than live trees. (Phil Howerton)

Join village carolling
By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Drug stores have been filled with Christmas cards for weeks. Even Walt Disney Productions has been pushing “A Disney Christmas’’ on the tube for over a month. But at Davidson College, the annual event must come early. Students will have been at home for nearly two weeks by the time December 25 rolls around.

The college community, together with various civic groups and school children, plans to hold “Christmas in the Village” Sunday, December 10, from two until six in the afternoon. The highlight of the event will be “A Festival of Trees in Historic Places.” Trees cut by Davidson students will be decorated in various traditional and historic styles. The trees will then be placed at Eumenean Hall, the Caroline Inn, the depot, and other points of interest in Davidson. To avoid the hazard of fire, live Christmas trees will be allowed only in the dormitory lounges.

Other festivities include a tour of homes planned to begin at two in the afternoon of December 2. Five of the newest houses on Pine Road will be decorated inside and out and will be open to visitors. Due to limited parking on Pine Road, a double-decker bus will shuttle visitors from the Carolina Inn at fifteen-minute intervals. The cost of tour tickets is a minimum two-dollar contribution. Proceeds will go to the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center. These admission cards may be obtained from the Day Care Center or the Eumenean Hall.

Also on the afternoon of December 10, choirs from local churches will sing in front of Davidson College Presbyterian Church. This songfest is to be held in lieu of the live nativity scene announced earlier. The college union will host a Christmas Crafts Fair in the Morrison Hall afternoon, December 2. “This will be pretty much a local thing,” said Assistant Director of the Union William Brown.

Instead of the regular Tuesday night campus worship service on December 12, Minister to Students Rush Otey will lead an assembly of Davidson students, professors, and the local townspeople in large-scale Christmas caroling. The procession will tour the campus, the primary “target” being the E.H. Little Library.

Graphic Equalizers for Car Hi-Fi
All major albums $5.99
Special order on any albums not in stock
162 N. Main St.
P.O. Box 1041
Mooresville, N.C. 28115
Larry G. Wells
President