March 24, 1978

The Davidsonian

“DRIFTWOOD” is the subject of one of many Ron Chapple photos on display in the Union lobby.

Chapple captures life

By FRANK BLISS
Faculty Contributor

Ron Chapple’s photographic prints create a striking impression immediately because of their effective display in the College Union Gallery and because of their rich blacks and their textures and forms generally. He sees well, and through his skill in printing he is able to express what he sees and to enable others to see with him. His prints do not make comments; they present the materials he has selected for us to see. The thirty-nine prints are satisfying and memorable.

Close scrutiny of the prints reveals that Ron Chapple is perceptive in his use of light, and that he composes effectively. We see a doe lying dead and almost covered with dead leaves and the entire forest scene seems vibrant. At one extreme, in one print a hammock is discovered to have presence; at the other, in another print a nude, practically silhouetted, seems to possess something of the timelessness of a Greek vase. An angular remnant of a tree, a bit of debris on a beach, is dramatically solid in the light of ordinary day; bare feet are downright comical.

The selected details, the surface qualities of the prints (some of the prints are realistic, others are abstract), and the structural qualities make these prints a delight to view. One most significant function of art is to enable us to see better; this function Ron Chapple’s prints serve well.

By AMANDA HALL
Productions Manager
[First in a Series]

Monday, April 10th, the man who paid for Davidson’s library and one of the dorms, who began the funding of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and other buildings on campus—in general, one of the College’s strongest supporters, will celebrate his 97th birthday on campus.

The man, E.H. Little, comes in response to an invitation from Tim Goodell and Lee Raney, on behalf of the entire student body, that was extended as a thank-you for all the good Little has done for Davidson.

Little never attended Davidson. In fact, he never attended any college. As one of nine children in a farming family 15 miles from the campus, he just could not afford it. So the closest he ever came to attending college was bringing his brother 15 miles to Davidson so he could become a Presbyterian minister...and turning right around and going home.

He made his fortune by selling Octagon soap for the Colgate Company in the Carolinas—traveling by horse and buggy. Then he suffered a bout of tuberculosis from 1910-11.

After recuperating he went to California, got a job with the Palmolive Company and ended up building their entire operation in the west.

Then Little came back east, and engineered the merger of Colgate and Palmolive into one of the world’s biggest corporations.

In the early '30s, he set up the company’s operations in Europe—now they have either an office or a factory in every nation on the continent.

He served as President, and, later, Chairman of the Board of Colgate-Palmolive.

At 96 and in excellent health, Little lives in Memphis, Tennessee, and spends his winters in Naples, Florida. For many years he spent part of the year in New York City, but since he has outlived most of his friends there he does not go back.

By no means does Little limit his generosity to Davidson; he helps a multitude of other schools. But, deep down, he considers Davidson the alma mater—probably because his brother attended the College. Also, in 1957, he received an honorary degree, making him an alumnus.

The idea for the birthday celebration honoring Little originated with College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., but the celebration is being engineered by and for students. A committee of five, headed by Goodell and including Raney, Olivia Ware, David Barnard, and Sandy Martin, have planned an entire day’s worth of party, completely centered around students.

Goodell hopes the day will give students a chance to honor and thank Little. Activities range from a formal dinner in the evening complete with student entertainment to a gala party on Richardson Plaza that afternoon.

To make up a guest list for the dinner, including about 150 people, the committee has invited friends of Little and representatives from every campus organization, from the College Union to the Young Republicans.

The remaining 50 seats will be filled by students chosen by lottery. Interested students should sign up at the Union desk; 50 names will be drawn from the list to receive invitations.

Goodell emphasized the necessity of student involvement to make the day a success. “We thought we could honor him,” said Goodell, “because there’s so much talent here.”

[Next week, the party on Richardson Plaza.]

At The Copeland House Gallery

— Just Arrived
Artext Mix & Matches

Matted prints $2.00
Frames to Mix or Match $4.00

Photo Restorations

Back Porch Special,
Used Frames and Stretchboxes

Custom Framing
Wide Selection of Prints and Posters
Limited Editions

Real Bargains
(if you can find one that suits your needs)

Browsing Welcome

THE EASTER BUNNY outdid himself this year in his egg-hiding efforts. He is either very tall or has learned how to climb trees. This egg, nestled far above the heads of the eager searchers, remained undiscovered at the end of the hunt conducted by the YMCA STEP Tutor Program on Wednesday afternoon. [David Litaker]

(Your source of Grumbacher and other art supplies)