December 1, 1978

The Davidsonian

SOPHOMORE TODD Haynes exhibits his soft touch on a jumper from the corner against Connecticut. Led by John Gerdy’s 81
points in two games, the Cats won the Charlotte Invitational Tournament for the first time in recent years. (Gregg Strader)

CIT trophy returns

By PHILIP DUNCAN
Editor

The Charlotte Invitational championship trophy has done a bit of traveling these past few years. In 1975, it ventured to
Clemson. A year later, it took a fancy to cross town and visited UNC-Charlotte. In 1977, the trophy wandered north,
to Illinois State. This year, the trophy came home again.

Senior John Gerdy sparked a strong team effort as the Wildcats surpassed two stubborn foes this past weekend to claim
the 1978 Charlotte Invitational Tournament. In the opening round, Gerdy launched his bid for All-American recognition by bucketing 47 points
as the ’Cats outran Canisius 106-99. Gerdy’s encore performance in the finals produced 34 points and lifted Davidson past Connecticut
84-77.

Sophomore forward Todd Haynes averaged 18 points and 7 rebounds in the two games and joined Gerdy on the All-CIT
team. Senior Pat Hickert, another forward, joined Gerdy and Haynes as a double-figure scorer in the CIT (14.5 points per
game).

Davidson trailed Connecticut 59-63 with just under 8 minutes remaining in the championship game on Saturday. Then, a pressing full-court
defense forced several Connecticut turnovers and sent the Wildcats on their way to a 69-63 lead at 5:33. The Huskies
battled to within three with 1:15 to go, but Reigel and Hall kept the foes at arm’s length with foul
tosses in the closing seconds.

Long Island University, loser to Connecticut in the opening round, took consolation honors with an 81-79 decision over Canisius.

COACH EDDIE Biedenbach gives his players instructions during a timeout. The team, now 2-0, faces Wofford in Johnston Gym this
Saturday night.

Fired-up Wildcats raring to go

By DEAN EKLUND
Sports Writer

Despite Davidson’s impressive victory in the CIT, the pre-season expectations for the basketball team were not high. Sports writers picked
Davidson to finish sixth in the Southern Conference. Coach Eddie Biedenbach thinks the Cats are a little stronger than that,
but only to the extent that Davidson may wind up fifth instead of sixth.

Winning the Southern Conference is the team’s goal, but it is only a goal. It is something to aim for.
Biedenbach, relating his pre-season objectives, said, “To begin with, more than anything we worked on conditioning, strength, and attitude. On
the individual aspect of the game we base our work on defense and work out from there.”

“We’re going to use a variety of defenses. We’re going to be switching a variety of zone and man-to-man defenses
to try to keep people off balance.”

Commenting on the team’s progress, Biedenbach responded, “I think we’ve accomplished something and have looked better since the day school
started with the exception of maybe four or five days. But you’re just going to have some days when it’s
not going to go well. We’ve worked on conditioning, weight training, sharing, getting haircuts, attitude, and working together.”

Biedenbach explained Davidson’s bench situation, “As the season goes on we're going to be hurt more and more by our
lack of experience on the bench. (Greg) Berlacher has mononucleosis and is in...the infirmary. He will be out at least
until Christmas and maybe for the whole year. Richie (DiBenedetto) isn’t back yet. It’s starting to get thin.”

“I like to use as many people as will help me. I don’t think anybody can play 40 minutes. That
is, change ends, play a passing game offense, play defense, rebounding, do all the things I want them to do
and play 40 minutes and do a great job in all of them.”

Nevertheless, Senior co-captain John Gerdy regularly plays. He explained his unique situation, “Gerdy is a luxury because he is a
senior. He’s fairly strong and is experienced. He doesn’t use energy emotionally—just physically, and as a result he can play
a little longer than others. But he hasn’t played as hard as I would like on the defensive end but
I can’t expect him to do all that and score like he scores, too.”

Gerdy, who averaged more than 25 points per game last season and is likely to eclipse Fred Hetzel’s career scoring
record, has been the focus of speculation about his possible selection to the nation’s All-American team. Biedenbach commented on Gerdy’s
chances, saying, “At N.C. State, by being in the ACC, if a guy is a great player then he’ll automatically
get recognition nationwide. Here, I don’t know. I think John deserves to be an All-American. Whether he will or not,
I don’t know. We have to win games for him to have a chance, and we need to upset a
couple of good teams.”

Biedenbach talked about Davidson’s challenging schedule. “Our schedule is too tough. A lot of people have asked me if I
want to change the schedule so we can compete. I say no, I want to upgrade the talent here so
we can compete on the schedule that we have. I like that kind of schedule. Team unity, intelligent play and
consistency are keys to Davidson’s success this year. Biedenbach explained, “Our team unity is excellent. That’s the only chance we
really have to be a better than average team. In other words, if we do everything else, then we’ll be
together like we have so far, we’ll be better than average.

“None of our players are doing the things they can do very well. That is, a very high percentage game
shooting, rebounding and position-wise defensively. Jamie Hall can do a few more things, but he’s younger and not as consistent.

“But from the other guys I’m expecting a very consistent grinding out type of effort over a long period of
time which is what we’ll need to be a fair team and overall a real good shooting team.

“Our individual physical talent is very average. But we’re intelligent. I hope that intelligence is put on the basketball floor.
I mean off the floor it’s obvious we’re more intelligent than the other teams we play, but that is not
always taken right onto the floor. It appeared like it was in the C.I.T.”

While Biedenbach is cautious about the team’s outlook, if Davidson can continue to play the intelligent and consistent brand of
basketball displayed in the C.I.T. then there may be a few pleasant surprises in store for Biedenbach and the Wildcats.
