October 13, 1978 Opinion. The Davidsonian

Traffic safety agency monitors auto safety, defects
By STEVE AUSTIN
PIRG Columnist

Did you know that there is a number you can call toll-free to report any problems or ask any questions concerning your car? The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration’s Hotline (1-800-424-9898) is one more attempt on the part of this agency to better serve the public. In 1966, the NHTSA was created to take on the responsibility formerly shared by eight different departments. The dramatic result was a reduction in the traffic fatality rate (the number of deaths per 100 million miles driven) from 6.48 in 1966 to 4.11 in 1974. Inception of the 55 mile-per-hour speed limit in 1974 brought the rate down to 3.52 in a year’s time. If the fatality rate had just remained constant at the 1967 level, 77,000 people would have been killed in 1977 compared to the actual figure of 48,000.

What does the NHTSA do that has produced such tremendous results? It is a diversified agency: researching safety problems and solutions, investigating potentially defective car products, issuing safety standards for products of the automotive industry. Recently, it has been given the additional responsibility of helping to cut fuel usage through design modifications and regulations.

The NHTSA is currently involved in trying to make a passive restraint system mandatory on all passenger cars by the model year 1984. Lap and shoulder belts required since 1968 provide the same protection but only when used: less than twenty percent of the driving public are willing to buckle up. In 1977, over 10,000 people could have been saved if they had used their seatbelts.

Two types of passive restraint systems are now possibilities. The first is a safety belt that automatically comes into place when the door closes. Such a system is currently available on the Volkswagen Rabbit. The second system is the air cushion which inflates on impact, distributing the force of the collision over the whole body. The seatbelts would cost approximately $50 whereas the air bag would be over $100. Estimating that 10,000 lives could be saved annually if either of these restraint systems were made mandatory, the NHTSA considers the added expense minimal.

The NHTSA spends a large amount of time researching safety features of the future. Their experimental cars include high gas mileage, foam-filled bumpers to reduce pedestrian injury, low levels of pollution, and various safety features. Complex anthropomorphic test dummies with computer sensors have been developed to give data in simulated crash situations.

In 1977 alone, 303 investigations to review possibly defective automobiles and their parts were initiated and 281 closed to the satisfaction of the agency. Upon receiving a number of complaints or uncovering some defect in their own research, the NHTSA calls a hearing on the problem. If ample evidence is presented, a recall may be ordered which in turn may be the only way to achieve any improvements.

The god of all great computers has once again given us our random course selection numbers. Implications override facts (Continued from page 4) Having been exposed to so many different areas, Hall Advisors have the insight to address a broad range of ideas. Lastly, the portrayal of Melton appears clearly subjective, with such descriptions as “visibly uncomfortable,” “forcefully denied,” “would only say,” “admit,” “hoodwink,” etc. By using the word “denied” so often, the implication is made that he actually had something to cover up. We feel that the only possible reason...For Melton’s discomfort was the bringing up of some trivial point that he could not rationalize. Granted, the selection of Hall Advisors could have been a “matter of convenience.” Yet we feel that Melton’s key point—that the entire school has been given the opportunity to talk to the Trustees at almost all of their past meetings but rarely used “the opportunity”—was not stressed. Our objection lies not in the individual passages or points of the article; it rests in its implications. If analyzed closely, only one question is raised by the article: why were only Hall Advisors selected to talk to Trustees? In that same vein, we feel that an additional question should have been asked: why were only the department chairmen selected to carry out similar interviews? We feel that the answers are evident. As a total, the power of suggestion is quite forceful. The average reader does not stop to analyze a front-page article in The Davidsonian. Doubt over Melton’s true intentions prevails throughout as the words color the qualifications of the participants to engage in a candid interview.

Taine Allison ‘80
Carol Robinson '80
Ann Garner '80

SUBSCRIPTIONS may be obtained by writing: The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

Letter to the Editor
Scheduling woes ad nauseam

One big job of the agency is challenged by the company in court. The process is more often than not long and expensive. As an agency concerned specifically with the consumer, the NHTSA goes to great lengths to communicate with the public. Besides the 300 to 500 calls handled daily by the agency's hotline, a variety of public information programs are carried on. Fact sheets are prepared and advertising campaigns encouraging such measures as the 55 mph speed limit are conducted. PIRG supports the NHTSA in the role it plays for us.

To the Editor:

As our hopes swell at the prospect of new and challenging courses, we turn optimistically to the registrar’s printout of subjects to be offered. We are disappointed. For once again the courses we need and/or want are taught at 9:00 and 11:00 and are among the most popular courses from an elective standpoint and in terms of our major. With a first number so high that we do not stand a chance in hell of getting our first choice, we can only hope that our fortune will change by spring term. As for winter term, we can only pray for a miracle.

Bill Peeples '80
Rob Cordell '80
John Butler '81
Jim Elliot '82
Doug Holt ’80
Clifton Fay '79
Will Grimsley '80
Beth Baird '79
John C. Conrad '80
Penny Mandell '81
David Waddill '81
Kevin Wheelock ’81
Adrian C. Wilson '79
James L. Patton '79

Piedmont Airlines has discount fares for just about anywhere else you'd like to go. For instance, our Round Thrift Fare saves you 30% roundtrip when you return no earlier than the third day following your original date of departure. Piedmont's Weekend Excursion Fare means a 25% roundtrip discount if you leave Saturday and return Monday through the first available flight after noon. Piedmont has five other discount fares to choose from, too. For complete information, call your travel agent or Piedmont Airlines. Major credit cards accepted. All discount fares subject to change without notice.

FLY PIEDMONT