April 14, 1978
The Davidsonian

Opinion

Money attitude breeds contempt
By FRANK SANTORE

My friend (who I call "Bill") is the epitome of what a college football player should be—broad-shouldered, lean, and strong
at 5’11” and 180 pounds. Presently, he is attending Lees-McRae, a two-year college in Banner Elk. By this time next
year, he will be playing for Appalachian on a full scholarship.

Bill’s family owned a lucrative insurance business in my town, Greeneville, Tennessee, which was (and still is) one of the
foremost businesses of its type in east Tennessee. It goes without saying that Bill’s family was “well-off.” In the mid-1960s
and early '70s, misfortune struck Bill’s family. The family business was stolen from Bill’s family when his business partner coldly
and ruthlessly bought full control of the business. Later, Bill’s mother, who was my mother’s best friend in high school,
committed suicide. Thus, my friend has seen the world through two pairs of eyeglasses.

The party
One of my other teammates in high school held an annual Christmas party. Bill was invited to the first few
of these, but never received an invitation after his family misfortunes occurred, even though Bill was the star of the
team. The reason? MONEY. At the inception of these annual affairs, Bill’s family had money. When Bill became a pauper,
he was suddenly rejected by these people, the rich of my town. Bill accepted his fate stoically, but it always
angered me.

Money and Davidson
While speaking with someone two weeks ago, I was informed that “the blacks are getting every break.” This person said
that it was unfair for the government to set guidelines in order to give disadvantaged minorities an equal opportunity as
pertains to jobs and education. The funny thing about this is that this person has never awakened to find himself
in a one-room shack in Georgia, a tenement in Harlem, or a hollow in West Virginia. He has never started
the day knowing that he might not have anything to eat. He has never lacked clothes. His father has an
excellent paying job; he doesn’t have to go into a dark coal mine every day with the promise of nothing
but destroyed lungs and a grimy body at the end of the day. Although blessed with all these advantages, this
person criticizes those who are less fortunate than he is because they want the opportunity to have a slice of
the same pie which he has earned. This is the attitude of most of the “upper-crust” in our country and
an attitude which Davidson fosters.

Davidson is primarily a haven for WASPS. Rich, white, and very much a remnant of the Old South, Davidson promotes
the mores of the upper class by virtue of its composition. In my opinion, this type of atmosphere emits a
cold, unfeeling attitude about one’s fellow man, which states that money is the only thing of importance in this world.

Typical DC grad
After the typical, upper-class Davidson student graduates, he’ll settle into a profession or his family’s business, make money, and not
give a damn about the rest of the world. He will instill in his children (as his father did with
him) the idea that anyone who happens not to be white, Anglo-Saxon, or Protestant is the scum of the world
and an inhuman beast. Of course, in order to prevent any contact with this scum, his children will have to
live a sheltered existence. Therefore, they’ll be sent to the best lily-white private schools, and learn the lessons that every
snob must learn, such as how to spell NEGRO (N-I-G-G-E-R, of course). Upon graduation from their private high schools, the
children will matriculate at Davidson, and they will graduate into their family’s business. Later, they’ll marry one of their own
kind and live in a mansion where the Mint Juleps flow and the darkies sing and play. And, of course,
they’ll complain about all the breaks that the minorities are receiving (after sitting down to a six-course meal prepared by
a cook who gets to take the table scraps home to her family). They will refuse to see that it
is their attitude which continues to build the fire of racial dissension in our country—a fire which started in the
ghettos of Los Angeles, Detroit, and Newark in the mid-1960s and hasn't been put out since then.

The “preppie-debutantish” attitude is something that I assumed Davidson didn’t have. After all, don’t Davidson people say “hello” to everyone?
But it IS present at Davidson, my friends, and I'm afraid that it might become contagious. For when one applies
material criteria in the judgment of another's character, he sees only a portion of that particular person’s wealth to the
world. Thoreau didn’t have much money, but he was one of America’s greatest thinkers. If he had been judged only
for his monetary worth, it would've been assumed (and it was assumed) that he was a vagabond. So, I guess
that we'll still open doors for our fellow students. However, I have one question: When it comes time for us
to open the door for a beggar, will we slam it in his face and laugh at his station in
life, or will we open the door to our hearts and show that beggar our compassion for him? Think about
it.

Liberal arts and Christianity?
To the Editor:
Pursuant to the questions presented in Sam Weir’s article “Combining Christianity with the liberal arts” (Davidsonian, April 6, 1978) I
offer the following comments about the problem at Davidson.

I cannot see how Christianity can be combined with liberal arts until those who wish to engage in such an
education can make a basic commitment to freedom of religious conscience.and to a persistent, open seeking after and debate about
truth. If obeying Jesus obviates the possibility of such a commitment, then further discussion or action will be hollow. A
particular example of this problem may be:

Second annual Boycott Festival promises some exciting protests
By REV. HYDEN SEEKER

The Second Annual Spring Convocation Boycott and Speakers’ Festival will be held tomorrow at 10:30 am in front of Chambers
Building. This year’s activities, similar to those of a year ago, will center around meaningful moral protest, with complaints of
socio-political impropriety and civil disobedience. Following the nostalgic “Sixties’ Sit-In” that will begin the ceremony, the program calls for a
series of speeches and blistering condemnations.

According to student organizers Timmy Goodie, David Barnyard, and Lee Sunny, tomorrow’s festivities will have a slightly different look from
last spring. “We feel this is a really momentous occasion,” said Goodie. “I don’t know if any school in the
country has ever had back-to-back spring convocation boycotts.” This being the first anniversary of the original boycott, Barnyard has arranged
for a giant “Happy Anniversary” card commemorating the event to be pulled around campus in a horse and buggy. “We
are urging all of the faculty and student body to sign it,” said Barnyard. “It ought to be really neat,”
chirped Sunny.

Based on the wide range of responses that followed last year’s festivities, the organizers expressed cautious optimism that this year’s
boycott will be an even more exciting and entertaining event. Goodie explained that a problem with the original Boycott and
Speakers’ Festival was that it only had one issue, and a “relatively dry religious issue at that.” “This spring we
have come up with some really hot stuff that everyone can relate to and get steamed up about,” said Goodie.

As an example, one of the protests centers around a letter recently received by Davidson President Samuel R. Spencer Jr.
from the Food and Drug Administration regarding E.H. Little’s Colgate-Palmolive Company. According to Goodie, the letter alleges that Palmolive Dishwashing
Liquid has caused nail-cancer in laboratory rats. “That’s just not nice,” beamed Sunny.

The group cited other areas of vital concern that will be brought out at the boycott. Barnyard expressed particular distress
at the lack of housing for the horses recently donated to the school. “Many of these poor horses have been
living for several weeks out in some pasture with no stables. They’ve had to eat grass and live like animals.
This sick cruelty just has to stop,” exclaimed Barnyard.

The organizers expressed hope that a wide range of groups will support the boycott. In particular, Goodie hopes the Davidson
Christian Fellowship will join in protesting against female occupation of Grey House next fall. Grey House is a multi-bedroom structure
on one of the town’s busiest corners, located only 1½ miles from Interstate-77. Goodie expressed shock that “a supposedly Christian
institution would allow 15 single women to live in such a situation.” “If the coeds need money that badly,” exclaimed
Barnyard, “they simply ought to be put on work-study.”

There will be other critical issues discussed at the Boycott and Festival, including a resolution reprimanding the College Union for
having failed to schedule another country-rock band in the last 48 hours. “We hope that this multi-issue approach will enhance
the Boycott and Festival more than just one dumb issue,” said Goodie.

When asked what specific aspect about last year’s theme was inadequate, the group responded that they were not sure anybody
remembers what the issue itself was. “It has something to do with ‘Christian Tennis’—people wanting to use the courts on
Sunday morning or something. By the way, it did get solved, didn’t it?”

Illuminating for some readers, this past winter I received a letter from President Spencer which said, “I know and respect
your religious position.” The only possible factual basis that sentence could have would be found in a brief comment that
I made to a former Academic Vice-President when I was hired. At that time I said that I could see
that some people might have a need for institutional religion, but that I did not feel that need and did
not foresee myself joining a church. Beyond that, neither the President of this College nor any member of the faculty
or administration has ever discussed my religious beliefs with me in the four years I have been here. Even granting
that Spencer could be aware of that statement to the Academic Vice-President, I question the existence of a serious attempt
to understand anything religious beyond the ritual distinction between a church member and a non-church member.

If the blending of Christianity and liberal arts ever takes place at Davidson College on a large scale (there are
a few faculty members who do try), it will come after a level of thought is reached where one consciously
attempts not to allow simple-minded boundaries that create sub-species from humanity. Meanwhile, those who cannot make that commitment and put
it into action may do well to ponder (and particularly on the anniversary of the day Ronald Linden did not
come to Davidson) the possible truth of Arendt’s statement in Eichmann in Jerusalem—this is not a nursery school; “obedience and
support are the same thing.” As for me, I have no desire to live in a Cabaret.

Tonia K. Devon
Director of South Asian Studies
Davidson College

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., or bring them by
the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week’s issue.
