-Irv Wilson

Check Day Coming

...I've seen you...

I've been outside of myself.

"Not so."

You secretly cry on the couch, a sad sight!
Mirror-image.
And when I've seen you when you cried and tears streamed down your face onto the vinyl tablecloth leaving evidence of the circumstances.
I've seen you when you loved and lost and I never laughed because "loving" is rough and you're not always as strong as you think you are.
You want to lean on work and not be tired.
Yeah, you nigger.
I've seen you when you longed to be a woman but feared it like a child.
I've seen you when the miles pulled you from the arms of those you love and you stood alone and scared among shadowed faces and beneath strange skies...

Through the paper-thin wall is the muffled cry of a baby and the slow dragging of its mother's feet...

just another mouth to feed.
And as the child suckles, the mother looks blankly in the mirror at the image "he" once called pumpkin-head and she remembers how she giggled girlishly and realizes he was probably mocking the shape of her head.

She sighs...the baby stirs.

And she stares blankly out through the pasty windows at the dull darkness, she remembers the good, old, young times when she found it hard to go home because she was diggin' on a guy with processed hair; and she recalls wanting to be a model.

And the child stirs.

She rocks it gently to an old Gladys Knight record she used to sing to her lover who she found out too late didn't like kids...

and she gazes at the small bundle in her arms resting peacefully...
she sighs...tomorrow is check day.

Shouting Out

Yell it out at walls and windows where folks stare 'cause, hell, they don't pay your rent or love your man.

And yeah, lady, I know the time but my watch is at home but, yeah, I know the "times"; they're hard for young folks searchin' and old folks waitin'.

Yell it out at walls and windows 'cause you work for a livin', baby, and maybe you don't have a DEGREE but you know what's right 'cause you've lived enough to feel the pain but not long enough to die.