Php Duncan, Editor — Hunter, Business Manager

Volume LXVIII, Number Eleven
December 15, 1978

The current procedure of electing students to the Hearing Committee tugs candidates towards imbecility, insults voters, and enfeebles the Honor
Code it purports to perpetuate.

A troll through the dormitory halls this week was a depressing experience. “Vote for Bob, he’s no slob”; “We need
Jean, she’s real keen.” And for those not drawn to pithy mottos, there was the time-honored standby: “Vote for Joe
Student, Freshman for Hearing Committee... Vote for Jane Student, Sophomore for Hearing Committee... Vote for Jim Student, Junior for Hearing
Committee.” We exaggerate, perhaps, but not by much. Candidates stick platforms onto the doors of the johns. One john looks
like another, one platform looks like another. “The Honor Code is Davidson's most precious institution, a cornerstone of the unique
sense of community we all enjoy. I am an honest, fair-minded student. Elect me to the Hearing Committee and I
will defend our Honor Code.”

Daft slogans are scrawled on poster board and pasted on the walls. They fall and are trampled on. Election day
comes, the vote is cast, some hopefuls win. Good sense and the Honor Code lose. Davidson’s most cherished institution deserves
better treatment.

The current selection process is unfair to the candidates: while popular, well-known students need only post their names to win,
lesser-knowns, desperately seeking name identity, must embrace tacky slogans. Platform originality is almost impossible. The current selection process is unfair
to the voters, who have little substantive information on which to make an intelligent decision. The current selection process is
unfair to the Honor Code itself. At a time when some claim that the Code is crumbling away, we hasten
its demise by electing its defenders in a circus-sideshow atmosphere.

We ask the Hearing Committee and the SGA to spare us from Bob Slob and Keen Jean and Joe, Jim,
and Jane Student. Work together to give us a new, more sensible Hearing Committee selection process.

—Philip Duncan

A Christmas song. From us to you, with good tidings at Christmas and best wishes for the coming year.

Once in royal David's city
Stood a lonely cattle shed
Where Our Mother held herHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Duncan the candidate to Phil Duncan the editor. I promised to increase the size of the newspaper’s staff, and I
did. I promised to affiliate The Davidsonian with national press organizations serving college newspapers and to reintroduce The Davidsonian into
national competition with other newspapers. I have done so. I failed in my pledge to invite professional journalists to the
campus and in my promise to solicit student opinions through polls. This week, I continue to compare promise to fact.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Barring mechanical failures, we will deliver The Davidsonian to the doorstep of every on-campus student Thursday night. I
will also explore the possibility of delivering the newspaper to college-owned off-campus houses. A key phrase here is ‘barring mechanical
failures.’ At least twice this year the cantankerous compugraphic phototypesetting and processing equipment malfunctioned before final deadline time, delaying printing
until Friday. Somewhere in the shadowy part of last spring I seem to remember that the staff simply failed to
meet deadlines. In the past three weeks, I have delegated much of the production and layout responsibilities to younger, inexperienced
staff members in order to prepare a ‘new generation’ of workers for editor-elect Charles Erwin. Though delegation to inexperienced hands
has been partially responsible for recent distribution delays, training the ‘new generation’ will improve the quality of Erwin’s Davidsonian. Of
the 30-some Davidsonians this year, a half-dozen have been distributed late. I hoped for better.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Duncan hopes to persuade students to send The Davidsonian to parents and friends at other schools. An A-plus
here. The circulation department has undergone a major revamping this year as well as pushing for new subscriptions; we have
updated the inaccurate mailing list which I inherited from the past. This week, we will send out 250 newspapers by
mail; that brings $1,500 in subscription revenue yearly, quite a figure considering that our total on-campus distribution is only 1,350.
Restoring the circulation department is only a part of an effort this past year to put the business end of
the newspaper on firm footing. The effort has been quite successful. The newspaper is in healthy financial shape, the business,
advertising, and circulation managers are underclassmen who will stay on after December and provide the continuity critical to efficient business
management. I said almost nothing about the business end of the paper in my campaign promises because at the time
of the election I knew next to nothing about it. In the past year, I’ve probably learned and accomplished more
on the management side than in any other single area of the newspaper.

News Editors: Dennis, Bill Peeples, Barry Sachtjen
Senior Page Editor: George Murdaugh
Copy Editor: Dave Isenhower
Back Page Editor: Ed
Production: Amanda Hall
Advertising Manager: Diane
Editorial Page: Svert Gravett, Ralph Laney, Richard Nei
Executive Editors: Pamela Camerra, Bill Barnett, Harry Greyard
Department Assistants: Aus Soom, Caldwell, Carole, Howentan, Newberry
Sports: Mike Brits
