December 5, 1978

WHILE AT the Post Office, Freshman Chris Reasoner casts his vote in Tuesday’s elections. (Bill Purcell)

MacGill, Brown win, barely avoid run-off

In the closest thing to a free-for-all that Quips and Cranks has seen in years, Martha MacGill and Lisa Brown
won a first ballot victory in their bid for the editorship. For the last three years, the editorship has gone
uncontested. Then, suddenly this year there were three challengers—two teams and one lone individual.

“I didn’t think we were going to win; I thought it was going to be a run-off,” MacGill frankly admitted.
The team squeezed out of a run-off by only 13 votes. The final SGA tally gave the winners 400 votes.
The two freshmen in the race, Diane Odom and Lucy Phillips, polled 277, and Hak Kim took 97.

Odom and Phillips, who had been aiming for a run-off, were disappointed. “We put an exceptional amount of work, thought,
and time into our campaign and we feel the fact we are freshmen is the reason we lost," the team
said in a statement released Wednesday. Contacted personally, Odom said, “It made me really frustrated. I think you should be
elected on the basis of ability, not age. It was really like on the issues we were fighting.”

The winning team did not comment directly on the freshmen’s charge that prejudice was the deciding factor in the race,
but Brown said she thought they won because “We've had more experience with Davidson, not just with the yearbook.” The
freshmen said they “intend to give our full support to Martha and Lisa and we're helping them in every way
possible. We hope they will act in this position with the same enthusiasm that we have for Quips and Cranks,”
they said.

As for the winners, MacGill and Brown said they want to work closely with the present yearbook editors, Steve Kline
and Lana Sims, to learn about the business end of the paper and to increase their knowledge of layout and
production. Both MacGill and Brown will also attend a two-week summer workshop on production.

For some tired freshmen, Davidson isn't the place to be

By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

This year’s freshmen attrition rate seems to be running slightly above average, according to Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross.
As of the end of the first term, five of the three hundred and sixty-one freshmen class had left Davidson.
Reasons given for the departures include family-related problems, financial problems, academic difficulties, or the realization that Davidson was not the
right place for the student involved.

Dean of Students Will Terry said he finds this number not unusual, “There is bound to be an amount of
shakedown after the freshmen arrive. People expect the wrong things. Some people become discouraged academically even though they aren’t doing
that badly. Others find it hard to leave home in general. Still others feel that Davidson does not have what
they need. One of this year’s freshmen left because he wanted to be a veterinarian and he felt he couldn’t
get the courses he needed.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

At Davidson." A roommate of a dropout seemed to support Terry's comments: "My roommate missed home a lot and was
having a hard time making an adjustment to college. He felt he would be happier somewhere closer to home." This
year, for the first time, freshmen are being housed in triples. None of the dropouts came from the triples, but
there still seems to be a dissatisfaction with triples. According to Student Housing Director Scotty Nicholls, three of the triples
have made changes with either one of the three persons moving out into another room or one of the three
persons switching places with another student on their hall. When asked if triples would be around next year, Nicholls replied,
"As far as I know they will." However, some strong opposition to triples seems to be mounting.

Barbara Ballard of the Counseling Center seems to best sum up the position of those strongly opposed to triples. Mrs.
Ballard has worked with several occupants of triples either individually or as a group. Basically, she feels the difficulties freshmen
face are magnified by being in a triple. Mrs. Ballard said, "Most freshmen focus on their room-"

Bank Raises Rates (Continued from page 1)

"because of government regulations." Piedmont Branch Manager Don Howie felt that much of the student concern was caused by a
misunderstanding of last Friday's letter. "It is not an increase from minimum balance to the more complicated average balance," Howie
pointed out the possibility that NOW accounts may soon become legal in North Carolina. (NOW accounts are those paying interest
on checking accounts and have been used for several years in the New England states.) "We saw that if NOW
passed the legislature we would have to revise our service charge structure to accommodate it."

Piedmont official Mike Mittelman discounted accusations that the increase was aimed at Davidson students. "This is one of eight offices.
We have to face competition in several communities of which this is only one. I feel that we have been
fair."

First Union National Bank's Goode said, "Students should realize the rate increase was inevitable since there hasn't been one in
five years. There are ways to circumvent the increase," Goode continued. "One method is to write most of your checks
toward the end of the month to keep the average balance high. Another is to use the Master Charge and
write one check at the end of the month."

---

Note: The text "room-" seems to be cut off and may be incomplete.
