April 21, ae

The Davidsonian

Tight ATC budget forces limitations

(Continued from page 1)

funds from the Council for the first time. “We’re worried about precedents,” said Jackowitz. Senior Bob Cathey represented the Fellowship
before the Council, reading as part of his presentation a statement which said, “We are asking your council to support
half of our budget, $325, and provide part-time service from the faculty secretarial pool for typing materials. The secretarial services
would amount to probably two hours of work every week. We will seek to raise the other $325 from area
churches and the Campus Ministry Committee.”

Dean of Students Will Terry, a Council member, stated his belief that it would be difficult to get faculty secretaries
to do student work and suggested that the DCF arrange something else. Cathey agreed. Then a sharper discussion arose, which
continued at intervals through the rest of the meeting, as to whether it would really be a bad precedent to
award funds to an organization which allegedly only serves part of the students.

Council Member Nancy Catron drew a comparison between the Black Student Coalition and the Fellowship. The Coalition has received Activity
Tax money for a number of years. She observed that the Coalition also does not serve the entire community. Jackowitz
said he did not know why the Coalition was funded by the Council and suggested that in the future they
might be removed from Activity Tax support and funded in another way. Terry stated that he was more sympathetic to
the Coalition’s right to funding than the Fellowship’s. He said that the Black student at Davidson faces special problems and
added “they do need a place” to gather together. The Coalition requested $2620 for house improvements—which were to include in
part a color television, a bar, and “art pieces.” They also asked for $150 for “Charities and Contributions.”

Terry said that he was opposed to the idea of Activity Tax money being given to a group which in
turn would give it away as charity. When the final decision was made, the Coalition was awarded less than half
of its request, $1300, and the Fellowship wasn’t given a penny. Contacted yesterday, Cathey said that he was sorry that
his organization was turned down but stressed that he was highly visibly bothered the Council. “Now we'll go to area
churches and places like that to raise funds. I don’t know whether we'll be able to raise the money or
not,” he said.

Faced with a conflict, Experimental Philosophy Journal Editor Sam Crawford was unable to make a budget presentation before the Council.
Jackowitz summarized their written statement. Crawford admitted in his statement that he and his co-workers were unable to put the
journal “substantially if not entirely on independent financial footing.” Jackowitz said that when the Journal first came to the Council
for money last year, “they said it would be a one-year thing.” The Journal requested that they be given just
as much as they were last year—$2000. The statement sparked sharp discussion. “I think we have to consider whether we’ll
fund them at all. The question is

First female lands assistant’s position

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Staff Writer

Cynthia Newberry McDowell has been selected as the Assistant to the President for the 1978-79 school year, the first female
ever selected for the post. College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., made the announcement of the selection Wednesday. He commented,
“I had a number of candidates all of whom would have done a fine job. I chose Cindy because she
has an unusually fine combination of personal qualifications and experience.”

Eight graduating seniors applied for the position this year. Each applicant spent up to one half hour in an interview
with Spencer and wrote a letter concerning his qualifications for the job and his reasons for wanting the job. Spencer
looked for “a wide combination of qualities” according to Gary Barnes, current Assistant to the President. “If there is one
common thread among the assistants over the past years, it would be the ability to organize various things.”

The Assistant to the President is responsible for organizing and planning trustee meetings, coordinating the Convocation Ceremony, working with the
Stuart Scholars program, and doing correspondence and research work for the President. Additionally, there are day-to-day activities which Barnes says
“keep the job different and interesting.” “You're a representative of the college in a lot of ways,” said Barnes.

National and world news

Senate passes second treaty

Washington: The Senate approved the second of two Panama Canal treaties 68-32 Tuesday, giving President Carter a key foreign policy
victory by a one-vote margin. This treaty transfers canal ownership to Panama by the year 2000 and makes provisions for
that transfer.

Israel: The Israeli Cabinet, hoping to ease relations with the United States, issued a statement Monday reaffirming that United Nations’
Security Council Resolution 242 will remain the basis for negotiations with neighboring countries. Such action demonstrates that the Israelis have
backed down somewhat from Begin’s hard-line determination not to return any of the land captured during the 6-day War in
1967.

Washington: Former President Richard Nixon, who had lost three earlier Watergate appeals in the Supreme Court, was informed Tuesday that
22 hours of White House tapes will not be released to the public for several years.do we need a philosophy
journal? Do the students want to pay for a philosophy journal?” said Jackowitz. “I’m letting my personal opinion show through.
I don’t think we need a philosophy journal or can afford one. If we don’t fund them I think that
will be the end of it more or less,” Jackowitz continued. “I question whether there's really a market for an
undergraduate philosophy journal... (but) I’d hate to see the project die before the first issue has ever come out,” ejected
Dr. Lauren Yoder, Council Member.

Just as a comparison of the Davidson Christian Fellowship and Black Student Coalition visibly bothered the Council when discussing precedents,
so did a comparison drawn between the Miscellany and the Experimental Philosophy Journal. Jackowitz conceded that many students may well
not read their Miscellany, that it also might not be serving the entire Davidson community. Terry pointed out that the
Miscellany has a long tradition. When the final decision was made, the Miscellany was given $5100 of the $5600 they
requested. After the suggestion was made by Yoder that the journal be given a small sum with “a proviso that
next year will be absolutely the last year they will be funded by the Council,” the journal was given $600
of the $2000 they requested.

Business Manager Martin Hunter represented The Davidsonian before the Council. He read a statement which in part said, “It has
become apparent that no adequate provisions have previously been made for the eventual decline and wearing out of the composing
machines which were purchased in September 1975...we must immediately begin to prepare for their replacement, if The Davidsonian is to
run in the black, and also to make our budget requests more evenly spread out over the next several years.

“The other major new request in next year’s budget concerns the renovation of The Davidsonian’s quarters, with the overwhelming majority
of the request going for the complete renovation of our production room,” he continued. Union Director C. Shaw Smith, who
is also a Council member, attested to the bad condition of the newspaper's production room and said he supported its
renovation. As the composing machines were being discussed, Hunter mentioned that the paper will lose $1500 in rent from The
Davidson Update every year now that Director of News and Photography Buck Lawrimore has bought his own typesetting machines. “I’m
very disturbed that at a small place like this we need two expensive machines,” commented Terry upon Lawrimore’s action.

When asked why the advertising revenue taken in by The Davidsonian in the last few years has decreased markedly, Hunter
responded that the loss was due to an editorial decision, which he himself did not necessarily agree with, to limit
the number of ads per page. Later in the Council meeting, after Hunter had left, Jackowitz told the Council that
somehow they must reduce the total amount of money given to organizations until it fell within their $58,500 ceiling. At
this time, he said, “remember that The Davidsonian will find alternatives if not given the total amount they requested.” Immediately,
Terry broke in, “You really loaded that one.” Currie began to speak in defense of The Davidsonian’s request, saying that
if necessary the Activities Tax might have to be raised at some point to meet the paper’s needs. When the
final decision was made, The Davidsonian was awarded $14,765 out of the $18,460 they had requested. This is both the
most substantial increase given to any organization this year, coming as more than $3,265 than what was pegged for the
paper’s use last year, and the largest refusal, coming as less than $3,705 of what the paper asked for.

Jackowitz frankly admitted yesterday that when he and other committee members first heard about the new Campus Literary Magazine, they
were opposed to supporting it. He said that the committee was so taken by the presentation given by Lyman Collins,
Amanda Hall, and Greg Hankins that they decided it would “serve everyone well.” The magazine was awarded $1100 of the
$1500 they requested.

WDAV, the student station presently being given thousands of dollars by the College to increase their broadcasting power to include
Charlotte, still requested money from the Tax Council. “As long as we're giving them money, they'll keep coming to us,”
said Jackowitz. “Won't everybody?” added Terry. WDAV was given $6000 of the $7200 they requested.

Smith, although he was on the committee, rose in support of a plan to take the Artist's Series out of
the regular Council fund and asked that a special fund be set up where the Series will automatically get $7000
a year “into perpetuity.” He mentioned that the Union was setting up a similar fund with $5000 a year. The
Series was awarded all $7000 that it requested.

In other decisions, the Council chose to award the Wildcat Handbook $635, Quips and Cranks $14,500; SGA $4200; Resident Hall
Council $1000; Club Sports $2300.
