The Davidsonian April 28, 1978

PAUL SCHLEIFFER rehearses his part as Skelly in "The Rimers of Eldritch." The play will be presented in Hodson Hall starting on Thursday.

Controversial play

A controversial play comes to Davidson Thursday night and will run April 28 and 29, continuing May 4-6. "The Rimers of Eldritch," directed by Professor of Drama Joseph Gardner, presents the reactions of a small town in the mid-west to invasions of an isolated community. Playwright Langford Wilson portrays small-town life, emphasizing the hypocrisy and bizarre illusions of the inhabitants. Threaded with sub-plots, the characters all have unique personalities. However, the town itself is a character, displaying a definite and frighteningly predictable personality.

The town unleashes its anxieties and frustrations upon Skelly, a harmless and misunderstood hermit, played by veteran Paul Schleifer. When the curtain rises Thursday night, the audience will be confronted with the murder trial of the town scapegoat. The trial will include flashbacks of scenes involving the witnesses. As the action progresses on the blue-hued, raked stage, the story of a rape and subsequent murder will unfold. Performances begin at 8:15 in Hodson Hall, costing $1.50 for students and $2.50 for others. Thursday night is a bargain for Davidson students.

Club season closes dismally

"Blockheads" extend services to community

Crop Lunch Block—Students meet in weekly lunches, and the proceeds go to alleviate world hunger. (Crop is the hunger-fighting arm of Church World Service.) Participants have also contracted with the college dining service so that students can bring their own cups to meals instead of using the plastic, disposable ones. The money from the saved cups, so far over $300, goes into the anti-hunger fund.

Huntersville Prison Block—Several times each week Y members visit inmates at the Huntersville prison for conversation and some tutoring. The visiting students have also sponsored several parties for the inmates, especially a Christmas celebration.

Depot Lunch Block—The former Davidson train depot is the scene of weekly lunches, sponsored by this block, where students, faculty, administration, and townspeople get to know each other over sandwiches and ice cream.

By MARK GEORGE
Staff Writer

The most active student service organization at Davidson College is run by leaders who call themselves "blockheads" but extend their services to every corner of the campus and community. The organization is the student YM/YWCA, which has no connection with the national YMCA but traces its roots to a Davidson YMCA branch on campus in the 1930s. (The group is thinking of changing its name to dispel the misunderstanding.) And this year a new group of leaders, including several elected by the student body, have divided their areas of responsibility into blocks, each headed by a "blockhead."

The new structure "allows responsibility to be better delegated, and students can work in specific areas without becoming too overloaded," explained Y President Glen Darbyshire, a junior from Moultrie, Ga.

The major blocks of the organization are:

Step Block—Involves the most number of students, approximately 80. Step was formed six years ago as the Student Tutorial Education Project to provide Davidson Elementary School children in grades 2-6 with a type of big brother/big sister relationship.

Environmental Block—Members help in glass and paper recycling in Davidson and are active in numerous letter-writing campaigns about national environmental issues.

The Seventh Block—Promotes student-faculty interaction through "open houses" and other activities. Members also counsel with Davidson students who are unsure about their future plans.Roles at the College and discuss with them ways to become more active. The Davidson Community Center, the Day Care Center, the Senior Citizen’s Center, the Home Winterization Program, and a group entitled "Exploring Relationships" are some of the activities contained in other blocks, in addition to administrative duties such as publicity. However, a student isn’t limited to just those activities covered by the block programs. "The Y can provide funding for any student who has an idea for a service project," Darbyshire said. Other newly-elected Y officers are: Frances E. DuBose, a junior from Simpsonville, S.C., Barbara Wright, a junior from Dunwoody, Ga., and Thomas Niblock, a junior from Jakarta, Indonesia.

Brother/big sister in addition to helping them with their school work.

Tickets are $1.00 each. Although there will be no reserve seating, advance tickets may be ordered/purchased at the Hodson Hall box office beside the main entrance of the Cunningham Fine Arts Building. They will be available weekday afternoons. Come by or call 892-2000, extension 340.

Hot L Baltimore, a recent hit play, is another of Mr. Wilson’s works. In addition to Schleiffer, there are sixteen students in the cast. Laurie Campbell, ’81, appears as Eva, a young cripple and rape victim. Tom Cairns, a Rusk Scholar, shares the spotlight as Walter, a young man who drifts into town.

Help Wanted: The position of Chancellor

By KEVIN ROBBINS
Club Sports Correspondent

Our Club Sports coverage for the year must end on a rather somber note, I’m afraid. A number of losses, both on the field and off, have left us with at best the old "wait till next year" feeling. On the field, the Rugby Club was rather brutally dissected on Saturday by the Charlotte Gargoyles, 25-0. The stunned Ruggers were at a loss to explain the harrowing defeat, unless it could be attributed to the intimidating ugliness of the well-named Gargoyles. The Soccer Club lost to Belmont Abbey 3-1 to close an erratic season complicated by one of the off-the-field problems: their loss of a home playing field for the bulk of the season. The saddest news, however, was the loss of the Lacrosse Club from the Club Sports’ ranks. A rash of freakish accidents crippled an unusual number of key players, but the real finisher was a tragic onslaught of E.H. Little Disease. As all too often happens in student-led organizations at Davidson, the efforts of the few hard-working organizers and leaders went for naught as half-commitments and half-promises failed to produce any reliable participation by the other members. Some serious priority-examining needs to be done here. Why should a stable club be forced to fold because the majority of its "committed" members won't stir from the library for practice or games? Joe, Tommy, you guys tried your best and did a commendable job. The fault’s not yours. But to all those who contributed to such a sad demise, for once you really have some important thinking to do.

(Sec-Treas) of the SGA needs filling. Must know how to type proficiently. Pays $25/week. If interested contact Bruce Brown at 5410 or 892-2000, ext. 147, or Tom Mahoney or John Jackson at 5373. Deadline is May 7.

Celebrate Spring at the Peregrine House
Thursday afternoon (April 27th)
Cancelled due to the weather.
Rescheduled for May 4th
5-8
Band and all the Brew you want - Come over.