February 17, 1978

The Davidsonian

PROFESSOR OF History David G. Rice and Professor Emeritus of Philosophy George L. Abernathy enjoy the ice cream party on fourth Little last week. Ice cream parties like this one are being sponsored by the Union Dorm Social Committee.

[Gregg Strader]

Publications Board organizes

By SALLIE SUMMEY
Staff Writer

Davidsonian editor Phil Duncan and Miscellany co-editor Patsy Daniels will lead the student Publications Board in the coming year.

In its meeting last week, the board, which consists of the editors/managers and business managers of Davidson’s five student media operations, elected Duncan chairman and Daniels secretary, chose Quips and Cranks co-editor Steve Cline as the media representative to the Media Board, and discussed plans for 1978.

Duncan said that the duties of the Publications Board are currently rather nebulous.

“The College Constitution adopted in 1976 set up the Media Board and gave to it some of the responsibilities previously handled by the Publications Board,” he explained.

“Since 1976, no one has been certain of the role on the Publications Board—what it is supposed to do for the student media, how it is to cooperate with the Media Board, and so forth.”

In the coming year Duncan hopes the Board can eliminate these uncertainties and establish semi-formal operational guidelines.

In discussion at the meeting, the Board expressed a desire to take a more active role in screening of candidates for media positions and considered sponsoring visits by media professionals to Davidson.

All present agreed that the Publications Board should cooperate fully with the Media Board and assist it in serving as a forum where students can voice complaints or suggestions about the student media.

The Publications Board meets next in mid-March to discuss the budget proposals each media will submit to the Activities Tax Council.

program needs more coordination

(Continued from page 1)

could eat in a smaller group and feel like they belonged?” Kemp asked.

Kemp noted the constant turnover in Davidson's International Education Office as one of the major problems of international studies. “Every year there’s someone different in that office. What we need is a full tenured faculty member to serve part time or a trained, experienced director of International Education.”

Kemp said that there was also no coordination between the various directors of Davidson’s junior year abroad (JYA) and term programs.

Originally the International Education Committee, a faculty advisory committee, evaluated Davidson’s programs, and helped select students for these programs. “The International Education Committee no longer serves any function,” Kemp explained. “The responsibility for selection, evaluation and problems of each program has been handed over to individual departments.”

“I feel international study should be one of the most important things Davidson College could do to make students, who will be leaders of the community, more internationally aware. Otherwise, aren’t we promoting provincialism?” Kemp concluded.

News at a glance

Freshman Advisers picked

The Freshman Advisers for 1978-79 were selected this week. They are: Taine Alison, George Brown, Frank Callcott, Kenny Connor, Cindy Curtis, Anna DeArmond, Sue Dehoney, Anne Eglin, Curt Elliott, Michael Garfinkel, Mary Gray Gilchrist, Harry Griffith, Jim Haynes, Roger Hodge, Catherine (Bunny) Horine, John Jackson, Jim Kuster, Audrey Little, Mike McGrady, Charlie Pearson, Carol Robinson, Barry Sachtjen, Andy Smith, Tim Stoll, Sara Stoneburner, Tommy Thompson, John Willingham.

Awareness group planned

International student Youssef Abagui is organizing a group, under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A.’s new Seventh Block program, to increase the college community’s awareness about the various points of view on political, religious and environmental issues.

“The principle of a liberal education is not complete unless one hears all sides of an issue. Our goal is not to push any specific ideologies, but rather to enable students to gain a clearer insight into their own. We hope to help the college community experience different values of various countries,” said Abagui.

Some of the activities the group plans include contributing to recycling, holding symposia on religious issues, and public debates.

The group shows films on various religions on Friday mornings at 10. This Friday a film on Buddhism will be shown.

An exhibit of Mid-Eastern countries with meals and dances is being planned for the spring.

Feminists hold conference

The Southeastern Women’s Studies Association is holding its 1978 Conference at UNCC Friday, Saturday and Sunday, February 17-19.

The Conference will include discussion groups, panel and individual presentations on such issues as Sexism in Primary and Secondary Schools, Teaching and Research Issues in Third World Women’s Studies, and Affirmative Action and Fringe Benefits in Employment.

A Women’s Poetry Read-In will be held in the Cone University Center on Friday at 8 pm. The featured readers will include Barbara Lovell and Julia Fields. Women are also invited to share their poetry at the read-in.

Sweet Honey, a group of Black women singers, will present a live concert Saturday night as part of the conference. They sing blues, contemporary music and religious material based on Black traditional song styles.

Women in the area are encouraged to attend the conference and bring their ideas to share. For further information contact Ann C. Carver at UNCC (704-597-2296).

Contributors: Pam Camerra and Carol Loptson

We appreciate your patience.

The Copeland House Gallery

at 305 N. Main St., Davidson has progressed to the point that we are ready to serve you there with:

- Custom picture framing
- Ready made frames
- Prints, posters, movie stills, banners and other room decorations
- Office, art and school supplies

New stock is arriving now to expand our services to you.

Gallery hours are 10-5 Monday-Saturday