~ Volume LXVII, Number EIGHT ©

The not-too-angry protest — By CHARLES ERWIN, News Editor

“Disappointing” was the word WDAV's Ex-station Manager Carrington Thompson used to describe the results of Tuesday’s Student Government Association referendum and the turnout at Wednesday’s protest rally. Thompson said he was “surprised” that only about 100 people turned out for the 10 am rally, which was late getting started and dampened by the fact that only one of its three scheduled speakers showed up.

According to Thompson and other student leaders, the referendum and rally were intended to demonstrate student discontent over last Monday’s trustee decision giving control of the radio station to College President Samuel Spencer and his administration. Before the referendum results were tabulated Tuesday afternoon, Student Body President Bruce Brown said he hoped to get over 1000 “yes” votes and only a few “no” votes for their statement condemning the Trustee action as “educationally harmful, financially unjustified, and ethically irresponsible.” Instead, he got 616 “yes” votes and 94 “no” votes. Brown later said he was pleased the statement got as much support as it did, but added the results could be interpreted to mean a majority of Davidson students implicitly support the Trustee action.

On Wednesday, Thompson told the small crowd gathered in front of Chambers for the rally, “We are very thankful for the support we got” in the referendum. But he then added, “I don’t know how much good it’s really going to do us with the Trustees.” Even as he spoke, some students were writing letters to the Trustees, pleading for the decision to be overturned. In other comments to the docile protestors, Thompson publicly reversed his stand on two of his previous positions.

MANAGER Carrington Thompson calls recent Trustee decision on WDAV “irreversible” (top) while protesters Lisa Shingler (above), Esther Bruce, and Chris Chadwick (left) fire off letters to Trustees. (Bill Purcell)

By PETE HUX, Staff Writer

The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) may unveil its proposal for a Tenure Committee on faculty evaluation. The process of selection to the Committee is the primary concern of the PAC at this time. Some questions confronting the PAC on this issue are: Will the Committee be composed solely of tenured faculty members?

WDAV ‘very unlikely’ By MARK BARRETT, Staff Writer

A spokesman for the Federal Communications Commission yesterday pooh-poohed the idea that WDAV will not get its license because a freshman played a record called “Johnny Piss-Off” on October 5. Director of Communications Martha Roberts told the Board of Trustee’s Executive Committee last Monday that “We can expect a full investigation and all the attendant publicity that will bring. It is quite possible we will not be granted the license for the station.”

Chairman of the Board Warner Hall later used Roberts’ statement as one of the justifications for the decision to give control of WDAV to College President Samuel Spencer and his administration. Hall said the decision will make it “far easier for us to defend ourselves.”

In a telephone interview with The Davidsonian Wednesday, FCC spokesman J. J. Freeman said although he was unfamiliar with the WDAV case, “(In such a case), it is very unlikely that...~ the station will come under investigation for violation of the obscenity code as set down by the FCC. As a rule, the FCC does not begin such investigations unless complaints are numerous and over an extended period of time.” Deputy Director of the South Carolina Educational Television Network — Radio Division Herb Reese commented that in his experience, “One instance of obscenity will not cause loss of license. The FCC will probably file the complaint away unless a series of complaints are received.” Concerning the renewal of WDAV’s license, Executive Director of WDAV Don Lovell said, “WDAV does not have a license for 18,500 watts broadcasting. We are now broadcasting under program testing authority by the FCC.” He explained this is the final stage before WDAV receives a high power license. Freeman explained, “What is being examined during the program testing authority period is the technical quality of the broadcast signal, not the programming content.” He said further that the obscene record incident will have no influence on the initial licensing for 18,500 watts, and a minimal effect on license renewals. Roberts’ sole statement on the matter Wednesday was, “I only know that a letter of complaint was written to the FCC.” In answer to several rumors, Freeman said that WDAV will retain its status as an educational, and thus tax-free station, regardless of whether it employs students. “The only way that a station can lose its educational status is for it to make blatant profit-making attempts.” Freeman also confirmed that WDAV will incur no fines because of its interruption in broadcasting and that this interruption will have no ultimate effect on the licensing process, except to possibly extend its duration. In preparation of WDAV’s resumption of broadcasting, Roberts said Tuesday that she is now drafting a proposed operational and programming structure for WDAV, subject to Spencer’s final approval. She hopes to have the proposal on Spencer’s desk by early next week. Roberts stated that this plan, “will call for the hiring of a professional program director. The hiring of any other staff will depend on student participation. The main difference between past and future operations will be the presence of professional supervision and instruction.” “My proposal will definitely include maximum opportunity for students to participate in the station under professional guidance in both paid and (see Roberts, page 2) PAC molds tenure committee Samuel Spencer indicated he was opposed to the inclusion of student committee members for two reasons: 1) students lack the experience to effectively evaluate tenure candidates and; 2) in some cases students would merely be exposed to the professor in Student Body President Bruce Brown countered. (see Tenure, page 3)