The Davidsonian

September 22, 1978

# Staff Writ

In an attempt to provide accurate reporting to all you folks in Davidson, the geographical center of all the land
within at least a hundred-mile radius of here:

Bonehead has been taking it easy these last few weeks due to the fact that he is only registered in
one course. The ceilings were met in all the other courses, so he just decided to devote all his time
to a seminar in Indian music.

Rumors have it that Bonehead was last seen doing some forty-foot Bertram Banana Boat while drinking beer and Bacardi with
the beautiful babes of Biscayne Bay. Be doing it, Bonehead!

The flickerball rosters were turned in last week, so we have been busy choosing some of the best players. On
McFleet and Stuff, 706018 and 400423 should be a great combination.

The KA Gold has 682140, the SAE’s 239650, and King Tut has the freshman 40042700. If we failed to mention
your alpha number it was only because we didn’t think that anyone would recognize it.

In keeping with a tradition that was started this year, Bernie and Bone are proud to present the top named
teams of the 1978 season. We are really glad that these guys chose such distinguished names because we predict that
their teams are no good; but, hey, maybe you will surprise us.

Cut it out, get out of here, you knuckleheads, not really, just kidding. I love ya.

BJ and the Reamers. This team has the potential to come on at the end of the season and really
blow some guys off the field. For the time being, however, they have their job cut out for them. Favorite
play is end around.

GBO Express. These guys have trained and trained, but due to bad habits they will probably beat themselves. In a
recent draft, they obtained some of the biggest boys in the school.

Penthouse Beaver Patrol. Oh, we get it.

Sixty-niners. Hard team to figure out because their players keep changing offensive positions. Probably .500 at best, but may turn
things around by the end of the season and possibly go all the way.

Second Watts. It becomes apparent that Davidson has such intelligent students and original thinkers just by considering the name that
the guys on K-C and J.J.’s hall have picked. We will admit that this name has not been used in
recent years and congratulations to the idiot who thought of it.

Now to the season.

The KA’s proved once again that McFleet cannot win in a non-regular season game by knocking the stuff out of
them 24-6 last Wednesday. The game was played for the benefit of the freshmen and we are sure that both
of the freshmen there learned a lot from it.

David “The Human Speed Maggot” Smith had these comments after tagging J. Stroud for a safety: “It was the quickest
that I have ever been. I must have registered 10 disciples on the boltmeter.”

That awesome group of SAE’s embarrassed the SPE team of Big Boa and the T-Snakes in another “prep” game of
the season. We will not mention the score, but it was 56-0. The E’s scored eight times on the first
eight plays from scrimmage. After the game, Jim Richards was ecstatic. “I feel like we have busted through the stratosphere
and into the blow-zone,” he said. Right on, Jim.

Monday marked the beginning of the regular season. Nothing spectacular happened except that a number of freshmen teams were taught
not to mess with the big boys.

KA Gold beat Capt. Cohab 46-0, Up and Coming over the Cadillac Cowboys 63-13, PIKA downed Second Watts 14-7, The
Hole corked the 69’s 18-7, and TBA pushed past the Tuts 17-6.

In other action this week, the Old Men hobbled over First Richardson 44-10. Go Shane! The Drawbacks did not get
out in time and lost 36-6 to the Four Skins, Florida State over Oklahoma State 38-20.

And now for the Bad Bernard and Bonehead Top Ten:

1. SAE
2. KA Gold
3. McFleet and Stuff
4. Up and Coming
5. Four Skins
6. Otherwise, B-A.F. How ‘boutcha: Later.

Next week, Feature on Women’s IM ACT.
