The Davidsonian

6 students. (Continued from page 1)

“We’re starting fresh with a new radio station and a new organization and any qualified interested student is welcome,” she
added.

At the committee hearing Monday, Roberts told the Trustees that WDAV may well lose its license because of an obscene
record played on October 5 by a DJ in North Carolina. Roberts claimed that WDAV broadcast a record by “someone
called Johnny-Piss-Off” on October 5 which “used all the expletives I know.” Although students complain that Roberts trumped up her
statement in an attempt to wrest the station away from its former management, Roberts told the Trustees, “We can expect
a full investigation and all the attendant publicity that will bring. It is quite possible we will not be granted
the license for the station.”

Chairman of the Board Warner Hall said Tuesday that, after talking with attorneys, he believes that it is quite likely
that WDAV will be investigated and that Monday’s decision will make it “far easier for us to defend ourselves.” Hall
cited the example of a Pennsylvania college station said to have lost its license because offensive language on the air
turned out to be traceable to a lack of control.

Last year’s Station Manager Sid Barrett made light of the FCC investigation threat in the Spencer five-a-bed Tuesday. WDAV is
presently operating on a $28,000 a year budget and admitted this will probably have to be revised. “I think it’s
unquestionable that it will cost more than that now,” said Spencer, adding there are other ways of cutting costs. Davidson’s
president then suggested that the station may have to broadcast fewer hours each day in an effort to save money.

Also, students have charged that the Trustees walked all over the College’s 1976 Constitution in making their decision. The Constitution
gives programming authority to the station manager, gives the station manager the same rights as the editors of student publications,
and puts WDAV under the control of the Media Board. Thompson said, “The Constitution is evidently worthless now. The Trustees
just had no respect for it when they made their decision. I think that President Spencer and the Executive Committee
practice the lowest form of ethics, they’re too low to be considered ethics.”

Hall and Spencer seemed to be relatively unperturbed by the accusations that they had violated the Constitution. They were not
at all sure the Constitution was violated but added that Spencer has been authorized to make recommendations. Asked if they
planned to make after-the-fact alterations in the Constitution in order to ensure it would still be applicable to a new
student-run station and regarding the $5600 in Student Activities Tax funds left unspent by the student staff, which would be
redistributed to other student organizations, Spencer said that decision depends on how involved students become in the new WDAV.

Asked if they would now try to cooperate with the University of North Carolina at Charlotte's WFAE, a radio station
which will also be playing mostly classical music, to make sure WDAV and WFAE do not “step on each other’s
broadcasting toes,” Hall and Spencer said they would. Hall said that UNCC and Davidson are both members of the Charlotte
Consortium, and that, “We don’t try to slit each other’s throat.” Both refused to give specifics on the future of
such cooperation, but Spencer said he expected WDAV to become more of a fine arts station and WFAE to become
more of a public affairs station. “WFAE would probably shift in that direction,” he forecast, because of their affiliation with
the National Public Radio network.

Spencer said that he recently spoke with an NPR official in Washington and found out Charlotte is large enough to
support two NPR stations. He would not rule out the possibility that WDAV will seek NPR ties.

On Monday afternoon, just after the Trustee statement was released, about 10 former staff members ransacked the WDAV office. After
signing off the air at 5:00 PM, Station Engineer Paul Sea...

October 20, 1978Approximately 4:30 p.m., the students unwired the control board, snipped all the wires leading to it, and took
it to the Student Government Association’s office. They then tore their posters and licenses off the walls, shuffled many of
the station’s albums into the wrong jackets, removed their personal property, and left. Executive Director Don Lovell said it will
be “time-consuming” to straighten everything out, but not costly. He said they could find no serious damage. Lovell said he
is grateful to have about 30 days to straighten everything out, let tempers cool, and hire professionals—whether students or not.

Reactions over WDAV vary (Continued from page 1) whether the administration deliberately misled the students or not. An anonymous faculty
member said, “Students were at least allowed to believe, if not encouraged, that things were staying the same—that there were
no major changes to be made after the switch to high power.” He added, “I think the students were misled
early on. I got the feeling that (this type of station has) been in the works all along.”

White, however, felt that “the purpose of the station was from the beginning pretty clearly to go classical.” He expressed
surprise at such a strong reaction, “I guess I know the Trustees would never have sucked in so much money
if it weren’t going to be a classical station. It’s hard for me to understand.”

McKelway concurred on this point, “I think it’s really too bad the students involved could not understand the need for
the kind of programming the Trustees want. A classical station is the only reasonable sensible option. There’s no justification for
any other kind of station. Everyone should’ve understood that from the first.” McKelway did, however, sympathize with the student feeling
“that they were not frankly told what the station was going to become. I don’t think there is any doubt
that that was a mistake. I think the Administration was wrong in not dealing with the question ahead of time.”

Student opinion regarding the reaction of the staff to the Trustees' decision was also divided. Boone said, “Some of the
things they did, like taking out the control board, were ridiculous. I sympathize with the staff, but I think it’s
overreacting. It doesn’t solve any problems.” Other students, however, saw the actions as necessary. Senior Rusty Vester remarked, “I think
what the students did was justified. I’m pleased the students stood up to the Administration.” Another senior, David Haas, said,
“I guess the students had a point to make, and this was probably the best way to do it. I
would as soon they not do it this way though,” Haas added.

Faculty, staff, and students expressed concern over the financial viability of WDAV. They questioned whether funds and contributions to the
College should be used for a station run by professionals rather than students. French Professor Lauren Yoder said, “It’s a
very expensive proposition and it may not even achieve what it’s supposed to. If the station is going to be
run by professionals, it will be an auxiliary enterprise at Davidson, not really a full-fledged part. If it’s student-operated, it
as the student and administrative point of view.”

Bobby Mc commented, “If we generate student participation, it’s a better use of our money, especially since this kind of
service is being provided by Rock Hill and UNCC. Students should be able to outline their own programming and staffing,
thus providing a full learning experience,” said sophomore David Poe. “The control of the Trustees should be limited to reviewing
what students propose,” he continued. Junior Merideth Durden believes, “The Administration really doesn’t want student input unless it’s on their
own terms. The Administration should start a station of their own or compensate the students with another station.”

The future of WDAV remains unclear, and there is no definite answer to what solution, if any, will be found
to the problems surrounding the controversy. “One would wish we could all start from scratch now,” McKelway concluded.

Thomas named director (Continued from page 1) According to Kaylor, the proposal must be approved by the Non-Western Studies Committee.
