January 20, 1978 by SHERI GRAVETT, Assistant FOCUS Editor

According to Coordinator of International Study Tony Boon, international students are a “resource that has not been tapped fully.” He
went on to add that “they have a lot to offer and they want to share it with Davidson students.”
Currently, Boon is interested in making the international student's stay at Davidson “more rewarding and meaningful.” His number one priority
at the moment is to provide “accurate information at the earliest possible time to those foreign students who express an
interest in Davidson,” stated Boon.

Right now, foreign students come to Davidson in a variety of different ways. In the past, according to a report
by Foreign Advisor Louise Thompson, “Students were recruited from the Institute of International Education and from personal contacts.” The report
goes on to state that “Today’s recruitment is very different,” and that it “somehow lacks the personal touch.” At the
present time, students are selected by their respective schools or Davidson contacts with the local office having no voice in
the selection procedure. Boon admits that students from France and Germany “have the edge” in knowing what to expect from
Davidson students and professors at their own universities. Students from Spain, India, Egypt, and Japan, however, do not have this
opportunity. Therefore, Boon feels that it is necessary “to take the impetus early in the academic year towards recruiting international
students.”

This will not be an easy task, however. Since the original funding for the program provided by Mr. Smith Richardson
was withdrawn in 1971, the program has been operating under limited funding. Brochures on Davidson are no longer sent out
to the prospective students, and cuts are being made in every possible area. Furthermore, the students are not able to
earn enough money here on campus to allow them to travel to other regions of the United States.

Boon is also working on ways to involve international students more in the life of the college. When the program
first began in 1958, the students were assigned to fraternities. According to Thompson’s report, “Each fraternity ‘chose’ one of the
students and his board was paid by the group. In this way, he became a member of an intimate group,
had friends interested in him, and had a means of transportation.” Boon’s plans include instituting a better orientation, perhaps combining
parts of it with freshman orientation, giving the students a chance to eat at one of the eating houses for
a term, stimulating student interest in rooming with an international student, especially in off-campus housing, and designing more social/cultural events
allowing a better integration of Davidson and foreign students.

According to Boon, Davidson students need to take more “initiative” in developing relationships with international students. He feels that “their
presence here will enrich the lives of other Davidson students.”

Students voice expectations and experiences
By MARYELLEN SAWADA, Staff Writer

Looking for a year of travel, experience, change, or even academics, eleven international students made their way to Davidson College.
There is quite a diversity of opinion among the nine remaining international students about their expectations of Davidson and their
actual “Davidson experience.”

Having known Davidson students at Montpellier, French exchange student Patricia Henrion said, “Davidson is exactly as I expected... I enjoy
Davidson because I have become a Davidson student. If I come here and say ‘I am French and I don’t
like this and I don’t like that,’ I have missed something. You cannot compare... things are very different.” Commenting on
the size of Davidson, Henrion explained, “If I come from a large college, of course, it is different.”

Tomita said, “One of the reasons I came was not particularly to study at Davidson; I wanted experience, so I
was open-minded about Davidson.” Still, Tomita was “surprised at how small it is.”

“It was the right decision, but I am not enjoying myself... Students are not as open to different perspectives as
I thought.” - Joerg Hinemann

Zimmermann, who has studied at several colleges and universities, said, “We have no choice but to adapt to the structured
system.” He is quick to point out that international students can benefit from our institutions by immersing themselves.

Zimmermann identifies several areas for improvement. First, Davidson needs better communication and orientation. “We must ensure that schools abroad have
a reasonable amount of English,” he stated. “Some have arrived knowing hardly any English at all, and this has been
our fault.” Fourth, Zimmermann wants to make sure that the international students have a crack at getting their “first choice”
course when they arrive.Register, as he is sure this will boost their morale significantly. Finally, Zimmermann made the point that
the international students should do all they can to realize what sort of role they play in being SRG. He
emphasized the importance of understanding their part in the program. He said, "The suitability of a student is not the
only factor; they need to get the education they came for and make the program work. They should do their
best to live congenially with their hosts here at Davidson. There is an old saying: when in Rome, do as
the Romans."

"For example, it is an American college tradition to have close living in the dormitories. Granted, foreign students are not
used to our dorm life, as they live mainly in singles at their home universities. But dorm life is a
part of their learning process, too. They must make an effort to understand us, and us them. Otherwise, it is
a waste of time in my mind," he said. "Davidson is small, but there are still so many ways to
be involved."

Youssef Abagui, of Egypt, attributes this involvement in the campus to his "marvelous year." Abagui has been involved in the
language department (he has taught four students to speak and write in Arabic), WDAYV, and several publications. He has been
pleased with student encouragement of the Sadat trip support letter and his number of friends on campus. Abagui sees the
international program as "good for Davidson but not good for the international student." He questioned, "Who represents the international student?
We need someone intelligent, gregarious...someone who knows what college is about and above all, has interest."

"There was no genuine interest or rapport from the international office until Bernadette (B. Flaton, Mexico) and Omaima (O. Hatem,
Egypt) left." Abagui is, however, optimistic about the rest of his stay here because, as he said, "I genuinely love
Davidson."

Many of the students in the program received little correspondence about Davidson and so knew almost nothing about the school.
One of these students was Koji Tomita of Japan.

Experiencing that same surprise, Joerg Hinemann of Germany said, "I knew all the Davidsonians in Marburg...and I knew that Davidson
was not an average college. I knew it was small, but the actual experience of the smallness..." Hinemann has experienced
a "general dissatisfaction." "It was the right decision, but I am not enjoying myself," said Hinemann. "Students are not as
open to different perspectives as I had thought." Hinemann also has been displeased with the academics at Davidson. "I expected
to be more independent in my independent studies...I was in introductory courses. I didn’t care for that."

Another student frustrated with the enrollment status that has forced him into lower-level classes and out of seminars that he
had hoped for is Vijay Verghese of India. Verghese, who has already studied and received his degree in India, hopes
to continue those studies at another school in the United States. Verghese is critical of the pace of study of
the Davidson classes. "There is no time to assimilate the material..."

A four-year student from Hong Kong, Fai Wong, finds little to complain about academically even though "I am required to
take the exams and the others don’t have to."

In a meeting of international students and administrators, Ignacio Lopez of Spain spoke of his "problems with the conception of
the institution." Lopez is able to view Davidson from his role as a student and that of a tutor to
other students. "Jobs of some sort have become almost a necessity for the international student. All in need of jobs
are now working for the language department, ARA, or the library." Like Lopez, Solange Albet of France is a language
teacher/tutor. She finds the work "very hard...very tiring," and even then, she earns her extra money by babysitting.

Not being able to be a part of the eating houses has been a social problem for many of the
students wanting to become better acquainted with upper-class persons. "I seem to be the only one who was able to
join an eating club," said Rory Cornish of England. "And I rather like it."
