Volume LXVIII, Number SEVEN Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 October 20, 1978

Campus reaction differs
By CAROLE LOPATIN
Assistant News Editor

The controversial Trustee decision on WDAV sparked various responses from students, faculty, and staff of the College. Essentially, the only
general consensus drawn was that the whole affair could have been handled better. Physics Professor Locke White pointed to a
lack of communication between students and administration as a major problem. "It’s unfortunate that such an enormous breakdown in communication
happened at some point in the process," he said. There was disagreement as to (see Reactions, page 2)

Off the air till November 20

EX-STATION MANAGER Carrington Thompson said he hopes seeds (Gregg Strader)

SGA to hold WDAV referendum
By HOWARD BROWNE
Staff Writer

Next Tuesday the Student Government Association plans to hold a campus-wide referendum concerning the Executive Committee's decision on WDAV. The
referendum is intended to express students’ feelings about the Trustees’ actions. "A referendum is so seldom used that it will
carry weight,” said Student Body President Bruce Brown. Brown said, “The referendum will express the student discontent of both the
procedure and content of the Trustee decision. The referendum will state: “We, the students of Davidson College, find the Trustee
action of October 16th regarding WDAV unacceptable.”

“Secondly, we'd like to establish a 100-watt station for students to replace what the Trustees have taken away. It is
too bad that this is what we must shoot for now, but I think we must make the best of
a bad situation.

“These two things may not be satisfactory to the ex-staff at WDAV, however, these actions have been taken to ensure
that, in the future, students will have some opportunity to get into radio.”

Brown expressed concern over the handling of the WDAV decision. “We were misled. If the Trustees wanted to best serve
the Charlotte area, why didn’t they start their own station and not use what the students had built?

“They (the Trustees) completely disregarded the Constitution. They denied the Student Manager and staff the right given to them by
Article XII Section 6B and C.

“They also denied the Media Board their rights. They directed the Administration to go back to the Constitution to change
it to fit their decision.” Brown said he felt that this rendered the Constitution and the entire governing structure worthless.
He described the Trustees' decision as “very totalitarian.”

Trustees affirm College’s control
By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

College Radio Station WDAV is off the air until November 20 following the Monday afternoon resignation of its entire student
staff. Angered by the trustee decision giving control of the station to President Samuel Spencer and his administration, the students
said they felt they were wronged. The decision, made Monday by five members of the Executive Committee of Davidson's Board
of Trustees, calls for necessary changes in the station’s operations.--Paid professionals, possibly including qualified students, will run the station.
--WDAV will play “primarily classical music.”
--Students will no longer exercise any administrative control.

The trustees simultaneously gave Spencer the authority to set up a campus-wide radio station to be run solely by students,
and he said Tuesday that he is quite willing to do this. The Ex-Station Manager of WDAV, Carrington Thompson, stated
yesterday, however, that he won’t try to get a new station set up. “We resigned because we were mistreated, lied
to, and betrayed. The two-station proposal is not acceptable because the trustees are just trying to pacify us,” said Thompson.

In spite of his assertion, other former WDAV staff members and the Student Government Association are said to be thinking
seriously about setting up another station. The question of whether any sizable number of WDAV’s 60 former staff members will
apply for jobs with the professional station has yet to be answered. Spencer said Tuesday that in hiring staff members
“all of us would prefer students, I think, to outsiders.” WDAV Executive Director Don Lovell said, “We’re considering the students
first, before we go outside the college.”

Two members of WDAV's former senior staff are said to be eyeing positions with the college’s station, much to Thompson’s
consternation. Thompson himself declared that he won’t work for WDAV anymore. “I’m not going back to work for the station
at all. I refuse to work for any college that treats its students this way,” said Thompson.

College Communications Director Martha Roberts said that she is “sorry students have reacted bitterly to the trustees’ decision” and said
that she hopes that, in time, many will come back to the station. “I think a number of students very
sincerely want to see WDAV continue to have a great deal of student participation and I am heartily in agreement
with them,” said Roberts.

(Iove Students, page 2)

Director named

“I think the fact that he is an Indian national adds a real dimension to the program that would be
hard to match with an American,” continued Zimmermann. Thomas will probably teach two courses this spring. Besides conducting the basic
course in South Asian Culture, he will offer advanced courses in Indian history and art,” said Academic Vice-President T. C.
Price Zimmermann.

Thomas, who holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of Delhi, has been named the new director of the
South Asian Studies Program. He will also have responsibility for organizing a community-wide program of South Asian cultural events and
for coordinating the College's participation in the activities of the Association for Asian Studies (SASASAAS). The tentative study abroad program
with Davidson refers to the program now being finalized by UNC-C Professor Dean White.

(See Thomas, page 2)
