April 14, 1978

The Davidsonian

Big Little Bash is Enormous Success

By BILL BARNETT
Senior Editor

Many people have played very important roles in the development of Davidson College without receiving any recognition from its students, much less a five-course dinner with wine and champagne. John Belk has never had a dinner in his honor.

Maxwell Chambers had a building named in his honor, but he was never given a dinner. Will Terry, Davidson’s only living legend, has never been given a dinner.

E.H. Little, though, has been given a dinner, and what a dinner it was. Not a person in the audience would have guessed it had been prepared by A.R.A. Slater if Ron Scott had not been seen pouring Mr. Little’s wine.

The dinner honoring Little was the culmination of a day-long birthday party given for him by the students of Davidson. Tim Goodell and Lee Raney were the two chairmen, but they were very ably assisted by a whole host of others.

The birthday celebration began at 1:45 Monday afternoon. Little was driven over the Richardson Plaza where he was given a standing ovation by a large crowd of both faculty and students. The Davidson Pep Band played several appropriate songs during Mr. Little’s drive to the stage, lending a festive air to the event.

Little was assisted to the stage by Miss Raney. He was seated between Bruce Brown, the new SGA President, and Samuel R. Spencer, the president of the college.

David Barnard introduced Little, who gave a short speech thanking all the students for helping him celebrate his birthday. After the speeches, Brown and Spencer also gave short speeches. The Pep Band released a big bunch of gaily colored balloons. Mr. Little then took a short ride around the Plaza in a horse and buggy to commemorate his beginnings as a soap salesman in Mecklenburg County.

Following his buggy ride, Little stood in the foyer of the library and shook hands with everyone who came by. The reception line streamed past a card which had been presented to Little and which was signed by over 1000 students. It is reputed to be the largest of its kind in history.

Little, amazingly vigorous for a man of his age, spent the afternoon sightseeing on campus and visiting his friends who had come for the party that night.

The birthday dinner began at 6:30. Over two hundred people were served a delicious meal while listening to the music of Silkspun. After dessert, champagne, and toasts to Little’s health, the evening’s entertainment began. Masters of Ceremony Eddie Pollock and Joel Shirk gave several gag gifts to Mr. Little, including a small piggy bank with some change inside so he would be able to leave a tip.

The Little Women then led off a procession of student “talent” including the Lamplighters, the comedy team of Tom Bessellieu and John Monroe, and a skit featuring Dr. Leland Park and Cranston Snord, a local library rat. Just as the audience was about to doze off, Shirk recaptured the mike and gave everyone a much-needed two-minute stretch.

Finally, Little got up to say a few words. His short speech proved to be the highlight of the night. Little told several jokes which had the audience laughing with glee.

He related one story about a time in his youth when he made a half-blind Presbyterian minister leap-frog almost one and a half miles to his uncle’s house by telling him there were gulleys in the road every quarter mile or so. Little’s father had promptly worn him out with a switch when he heard of this practical joke.

After Little’s speech and one last rendition of “Happy Birthday,” the party broke up. There is no doubt, though, that Little and everyone else in attendance will remember it for a long time.

Celebrate Spring at the Peregrine House

Thursday afternoon (April 20th)
All the Brew you want - Come over.
Band and 50°