The Davidsonian

September 15, 1978

6

Mortar shell discovered

Features Editor

Professors’ wives are community people

There’s an old saying about college professors and their wives: the professors are distinguished, and their wives are gentle pillars of support. Just as professors have become much more visible and accessible, their wives have also branched out, lending their talent and enthusiasm to community activities and to their own careers.

Susan Abbott, wife of Dr. Tony Abbott of the English department, is presently involved with framing and other aspects of art at the Copeland House Gallery. Abbott was originally a clerk for the Village Store. Five years ago, they agreed to set up her framing department in the basement of the store. The location was moved to the Copeland House last February and opened its doors in April.

Abbott likes to “keep up with art” and has taken art courses at Davidson and went to New York with one of Dr. Ligo’s classes.

Meg Kello is the wife of psychology professor Dr. John Kello and a member of the Taradiddle Company. The group travels through the Charlotte-Mecklenburg area presenting a show to the elementary schools. Skupper-Dupper is this year’s drama and is a collection of four folk tales. Due to the number of schools in the area, it takes two years to circulate each program.

Kello was in the recent production of Plaza Suite and explained that she is “always involved in some capacity with the community theatre.”

Kello also teaches two short courses in drama to classes of the schools which the company visits. She stressed that emphasis is not on drama as an art form but as a way of getting the kids to “communicate their own creative feelings.” This is primarily accomplished through pantomime which, Kello pointed out, kids do often.

Debbie Webster, the wife of psychology professor Dr. Tim Webster, also has a Master’s Degree in the field. She recently began a job as a school psychologist and visits four schools in the Davidson area. Webster explained her role as that of a “resource person” who works with teachers and parents to help students. She handles the problems of students often referred to her by teachers and parents. Webster also said “it’s always a challenge to find the best way to help the kids” and personally tries the simplest solution first. She concluded that her job as a school psychologist is very diverse and “depends upon the needs of the school.”

Another busy Davidson wife is Ann Retzer, wife of a political science professor. She originally worked at UNCC as the assistant coordinator of Extension and Continuing Education. This support service for faculty and students is meant to extend off-campus studies for credit and non-credit courses. One of Retzer’s present activities is working, along with her husband, in the cooperative “Children's Schoolhouse.” Here parents and teachers work together to create a unique learning environment for children.

Frank di Gioia opens

By MEREDITH DURDEN
Features Editor

“I’m better than I thought,” exclaimed Frank di Gioia when he first saw his exhibit displayed in the Davidson College Art Gallery. A week had passed since he’d packed up the paintings in New York. In the new setting, he was able to look at his work with fresh eyes.

Born in Italy, di Gioia came to this country when he was eleven years old. He has since lived in the section of New York known as “Little Italy.” This colorful neighborhood is the subject of many of his paintings. But di Gioia did not originally plan to focus on this area.

Instead, di Gioia was struck by the Italian audience; the mothers chasing children, the men talking loudly, the young people eating peanuts. The play itself was disappointing and poorly presented. A prompter yelled lines to the actors and the Italians yelled above the performance. His satiric view of it is apparent in his work.

“Wedding in Little Italy,” the vigor of the children and the nun howling in “Parochial School,” and the awesome procession in “San Gennaro’s Feast” all demonstrate his knowledge of the immigrated Italians and his tongue-in-cheek view of their society.

“Draw a little more from your own experience,” di Gioia encouraged. He starts from real-life sketches and does not like people to know that he is drawing them. Sometimes he simply colors in the original sketches; other times he uses these sketches as notes for paintings.

Di Gioia’s current collection is a mix of these sketches and paintings. He explained, “With watercolors, you can actually draw. But with oils, you have to complete the drawing before you start painting.” His collection, which includes many landmark scenes, reflects his extensive travels and his thoughts on his own work. “I’ve been forced more to do some thinking for myself. After all these years I’ve reached a point where I don’t say: ‘Can I do it like this?’” di Gioia concluded.