4

Philip D. Duncan, Editor  
The Davidsonian  
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager  
Vol. LXVII, Number Fifteen  
February 3, 1978  

Broaden evaluation input

Davidson students have short attention spans when it comes to campus issues. Policies or events that we find disagreeable dominate campus conversations for a few days until the novelty wears off and then quickly fade away. Given this pattern of “instant evaporation” of student concern, the continued existence of anger and discussion about the decision to not renew Dr. Devon's contract is an unusual and pleasant phenomenon.

The problems with the present system (or non-system) of faculty evaluation have all been diligently documented in recent issues of The Davidsonian and just as diligently denied or “clarified” by the administration. The allegations have included such items as faculty members being called for meetings at which, unknown to them, they were to be evaluated, the solicitation of student opinion on certain professors in informal conversations, and the use of vague reasons like “social maladjustment” as reasons for choosing not to rehire faculty members. These allegations point to two main problems concerning the faculty evaluation process at Davidson College.

The first problem has to do with where the final evaluation decisions are made. It is now painfully apparent that too much power lies in the hands of President Spencer and Dr. Zimmermann. In addition to determining which faculty members and students are included in the evaluation of a given professor, they also, in the end, make the final decision about which untenured professors are asked to stay. So, not only do President Spencer and Dr. Zimmermann get to create an evaluation process for each faculty member, they also get to decide what the outcome of that process will be. Faculty renewal decisions are of such tremendous importance in a small academic community such as Davidson that no two men, regardless of their position, should be allowed to make those decisions.

The solution to this dangerous concentration of power is the formation of a faculty evaluation committee made up of several faculty members, several students, and a few “outsiders” with no direct ties to Davidson. The outsiders could either be from the Board of Visitors or, better yet, faculty members of merit from other institutions. This committee would be responsible for obtaining and assessing input on faculty members who are up for renewal, and then making the final decision. Admittedly, creating another committee at Davidson is roughly analogous to building another truck stop in Charlotte, but such an evaluation committee would fill a glaring void and be a tremendous improvement over the current two-man process.

Rumor has it that President Spencer and Dr. Zimmermann are now drafting a definitive faculty evaluation procedure. Let us hope that it will include a permanent evaluation committee. In order for such a committee to reach fruition, however, the faculty will have to stop merely grumbling about their grievances and take the time to express their discontent with the present system to Dr. Zimmermann and President Spencer. It is in the faculty’s own interest to do so.

The second problem has to do with the criteria of evaluation. Much criticism has been directed toward the current evaluation criteria, yet little attention has been given to the crucial task of developing superior criteria. Before this can be done, however, the weakness of the present system must be pinpointed. As it stands now, faculty members up for renewal are assessed in the three areas of teaching ability, academic prowess, and involvement in the community. The tremendous advantage of this system is its flexibility. A professor who is weak in one of these three areas may be able to compensate for it with exceptional strength in the other two areas, i.e., the excellent lecturer who is active in the community might be rehired even if he/she detests research and writing.

The weakness of this three-part system is its vagueness of definition. Teaching ability and academic prowess are obviously difficult to ascertain; even more nebulous is “involvement in the community.” More clearly delineated definitions of these three areas are desperately needed. The greatest potential evil of all, however, would be to make the definitions of the three areas too specific. Strictly defined criteria, such as those found at many large universities, would result in a stifling atmosphere of rigidity and didacticism, with no allowance for individual differences and preferences. Such an atmosphere, with its publishing requirements and inter-faculty competition, would be more damaging to Davidson than the present policy. The solution, then, is to find a workable common ground between our current system and the overly rigid systems of larger institutions.present vague and subjective evaluation process and the rigid university evaluation system that lies at the other end of the spectrum. Obviously, this is a difficult and painstaking task, yet it must start (see BROADEN, page 6).

Opinion
West Bank vote?
By DEAN EKLUND
Guest Columnist

One of the more positive outgrowths of President Sadat’s new dynamic Middle East policy manifests itself in focusing world attention on the Middle East problem. Attention is now centered on the breakdown of the initial phase of talks between Israel and Egypt and their future prospects. Arabic countries are exclaiming that Sadat gambled and lost. Momentarily at least, it appears they are right. Sadat gambled that his initiatives, by illustrating the possibilities peace would bring to both Israel and Egypt, would soften Israel’s position on acceptable borders and a Palestinian state. Sadat managed to create an atmosphere of optimism in Egypt, Israel, and through much of the world for the prospects of peace, while proving that Jew and Arab could live together peacefully. Israel did not respond with any significant concessions, however. Total withdrawal to pre-1967 boundaries or an independent Palestinian state remained unacceptable to Israel. Sadat meanwhile found himself in a very weak bargaining position. The refusal of other involved Arab countries to participate in Sadat’s designated peace process, including talks with Israel, prevented Sadat from compromising in his demands for a comprehensive settlement for fear of being accused of selling out the Arab cause. This is in spite of the fact that most of the Sinai, including that part which Israel desires to retain, and the fate of the Palestinian people are of marginal interest to Egypt. The latter claim is evidenced by the conditions under which the Palestinians lived in the Gaza strip when it was under Egyptian control. Perhaps I have understated Egyptian interests, but the significant point about the breakdown in talks is that Egypt can negotiate for Egypt, but she cannot negotiate for the Palestinians or for Syria or for any other Arab party. Egypt is in no position to compromise other nations’ interests. Egypt and Israel must agree to a formula which would bring Palestinian representation to any future talks. One solution would be to conduct elections in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to elect representatives to these talks. This may not be a smooth process due to the scant political development in these areas. However, Israel has effectively held elections in the West Bank, thus demonstrating the feasibility of such elections. Egypt and the U.S. could play a constructive role in conducting the elections. This method would also have the advantage of not directly excluding the PLO. Hopefully, through direct negotiations with Palestinians, Israel would recognize that a newly formed Palestinian state would have no intention of conducting a type of guerrilla warfare on the Israeli border. Instead of a military confrontation with Israel, a Palestinian state would seek from Israel social and economic aid and exchange. Perhaps also Mr. Begin would realize that it was not borders but relations between Israeli and Arab that caused the ’67 war, and that only through improved relations between Israeli and Arab—not through more defensible borders—can Israel be assured of a lasting peace.

Department assistants:
News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus—Sharon Jackson; Circulation—Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year except during holidays and examination periods by students of Davidson College. The newspaper's office is located on the top floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BARNETT JIMENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

News Editors
PAM CAMERRA
CHARLES ERWIN

Features Editor
BARRY SACHTJEN

Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Focus Editor
ANN GARNER

Graphics Editor
PATSY DANIELS

Inside Art Editor
MERIDETH DURDEN

Production Manager
GREGG STRADER

Copy Editor
AMANDA HALL

Special Assignments Editor
DAVID ISENHOWER

Circulation Manager
ANN SHEAFFER

Advertising Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ

Department assistants:
Features—Robert Bowie, Esther Bruce; Sports—Robert Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Powell.