April 14, 1978

The Davidsonian

STEEPLECHASER DOUG Horn, shown here negotiating the water hurdle, took fourth place in the recent Davidson Relays. The Wildcats as
a team finished tenth in the overall standings.

Basketball recruiting (Gregg Strader)

Wildcats land four

By JOHN WILLINGHAM
Asst. Sports Editor

Four high school seniors loaded with impressive credentials have thus far announced their intention to play basketball for Davidson next
year. Though handicapped by a late start, Coach Eddie Biedenbach has apparently overcome the obstacle and landed four players who
will not only provide the height absent from recent squads, but will also add strength to all areas of the
team.

Two of the recruits, Jamie Hall and Eric Sorenson, are from the Pittsburgh area, while Greg Berlacher and Brian Rowan
hail from Toledo, Ohio.

Hall, a 6’9” center from Penn Hills High School, averaged 21 points, 15 rebounds, and seven blocked shots a game
this past season. A first team all-state selection, Hall played for the Pennsylvania All-Stars in the Dapper Dan Roundball Classic
two weeks ago and participated in the All-America games at Sharon, Penn. “A big man like Jamie will help put
the pieces together for us,” Biedenbach remarked, adding that Hall “should complement our existing players well.” Hall had been contacted
by more than 200 colleges, but narrowed the choices to Davidson, Michigan, and Virginia before making his decision.

Assistant Coach Tom Abatemarco, who was at Iona last year, aided in the recruiting of Jeff Ruland, who was named
All-American as a freshman at Iona this year. “Jeff is a great player for Iona, but I feel Jamie has
better natural talent. He is a better jumper, has more quickness, and is a better shot blocker.”

Sorenson, a 6’5” forward from Peters Township High School, announced his intentions on Tuesday of this week. The McMurray, Pa.
native averaged 18.2 ppg as a senior and received numerous honors as well. He was named to the AAA All-Section
Nine Team and played on the same Pennsylvania squad as did Hall in the Dapper Dan Classic.

The two Ohioans have not officially signed yet, but are expected to do so by the end of the week.
Berlacher, a 6’4” forward from St. John’s High School, is considered to be among the top 20 players in the
state. As a senior, he averaged 16.5 ppg and led his team in steals during the season. He has also
been honored numerous times, having been chosen for the all-city team for the past two years as well as having
been selected to the all-district squad this year.

Rowan attended St. Francis High School, a rival of Berlacher’s school, and was highly recruited as well. This past season
he averaged 16.5 ppg, 12 rebounds, and shot a superior 57 percent from the field. Rowan is also considered to
be among the elite cagers in Ohio.

Biedenbach, who watched Davidson play in the Southern Conference Tournament, knows the tough job that he faces in the upcoming
season. He is confident, however, that there will be a definite improvement in the play of the Wildcats next year.
“I can’t predict how many wins and losses we will have next year. But I do think these additions will
make us better and a more exciting team to watch.”

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

Cumberland College won the 19th Annual Davidson Relays, held April 8th on the Whittle Track, edging runner-up Appalachian State, 97-94.
Twenty-five teams comprised what was certainly the finest field ever assembled here, as new records were established in 11 of
the 20 events.

Davidson's Jarry Doren Taylor was responsible for one of the marks as he won the hammer throw at 150’2”. The
defending champion for theLast two years, Taylor bettered the competition by almost 12 feet and set a new school record
in the process. Junior Doug Horn, improving his best time of the season by almost half a minute, placed fourth
in the steeplechase with a 9:39.6. Undoubtedly the most dramatic moment for Wildcat fans was the 10,000 meters, which pitted
senior Coty Pinckney against Wake Forest’s Jack Durkin. In the hot, grueling 25-lap race, Pinckney and Durkin were together virtually
the entire distance, and after two miles the two runners were all alone. On the gun lap, with the shorter
Pinckney ahead by a stride, Durkin surged but was held off on the back stretch. Coming off the curve, dead
even with his opponent, Pinckney suddenly shifted gears and began a devastating 80-yard sprint. He won by 15 yards, arms
raised in triumph. The Wildcats finished 10th overall with 24 points. The women's team fared somewhat better, placing 4th with
37 points. Seven individuals placed for the Wildcats. Burkley Mann and Debbie Carlton were 2nd and 5th respectively in the
high jump; Sue Colan was 6th in the shot put, and Bunny Horine and Benita Franklin were 4th and 5th
in the discus. Sophomore Susan Davidson won the 1500 meters in 5:07, and freshman Nancy Wright was third. Although often
well behind schedule, the day was, for the most part, a great success, and most of the credit must go
to Sterling Martin, who is annually the key figure in planning the Relays. The Wildcats, now 4-1, host Southern Conference
foe The Citadel this Saturday. The meet begins at 2:00 p.m.

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons. One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual
behavior. But we don’t preach. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about
sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks
pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can
tell you where to go for pre-natal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned
Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you a
sermon is one of them. Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte, 951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. CALL US
AT 377-0841.

One of the first things young Puffins learn to do is fly. Beginning 1978, Icelandic will fly any youth (Puffin
or person) from 12 thru 23 years old roundtrip New York to Luxembourg for just $400. $430 from Chicago. Return
tickets are good for a full year. Fares are subject to change. Book anytime. Icelandic will set you down right
in the middle of Europe. Roundtrip 14-45 day APEX fare from N.Y. Roundtrip Youth Fare. Good thru age 23. Icelandic
to $295 from Chicago. Tickets must be reserved 45 days prior to departure and paid for within 8 days of
reservation. Add $15 each way for travel on weekends.
