December 15, 1978... The Davidsonian

Bernard and Bonehead

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD
Staff Writers

Yuletidings to you old egg-noggers. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. And now for the traditional Bad Bernard and Bonehead Christmas Story.

This year’s story takes place in the hamlet of Mt. Mourne with the Hohenzollern family. Young Cleo Hohenzollern, a young neuter of age six, was anxiously anticipating the Mt. Mourne Fire Department Christmas party. The Hohenzollerns were a poor family and little Cleo had never been to a party before, especially a Christmas one. It was rumored that there might be gifts there for some of the children. Young Cleo would lay awake at night hoping that he might be one of the select few who would receive a shiny new toy.

“Gee whiz, I hope I get something,” Cleo would say to his poor father of little income and few pieces of money. The big day grew close, and Cleo the child was very excited. He got so excited he would often urinate at night all over himself. His mother, Beatrice Hohenzollern, thought the problem would go away, but she was wrong; it got much worse. Now besides not being able to control his bladder, he often found himself regurgitating his meals.

One night in particular he had just finished eating his Morton’s frozen ravioli TV dinner and he got sick all over his little sister’s freckled face. She then in turn got sick and threw up all over the table. Before the Hohenzollern parents could stop it there were large chunks and small chunks of half-eaten ravioli all over the place. In between the chunks there were little lines of saliva connecting the pieces. You know those little orange lines that are so gooey, and if you follow one of those lines it leads back to the little girl’s mouth from whence it came. And then you wonder how such a pretty girl could barf up all that stuff, and you know she did it ‘cause you can still see some of it on her lips and smell it on her.

Now think of the last time you puked all over the place. Maybe it was in elementary school on your little desk, or maybe once after you took drunk for a couple of days, or maybe you plan to throw up tomorrow night. Don’t try to get out of it, you know you have tossed your cookies at least once in the past, everyone has. But regardless of whether or not you threw up, you are not in our Christmas story and little Cleo, the poor boy, is, so let’s get back to him.

Young Cleo survived this tragic episode only to be killed on the afternoon of the Christmas party by his friends who threw little rocks at him until he died. There are several morals one can draw from this story. One, puking is not that bad; after all, young Cleo would have rather thrown up.Again, than be kilt by his little schoolmates. Two, don’t get so excited about Christmas parties; and three, if you enjoyed this article you are sick and someone should bite off your head and puke in the neck. And now on with the IMAC report, we hope you liked our story. In the B League this past week, there were a pantload of games. The Green Hornets ran by the Squat and Leave Its, 61-13, and the Rock ’n Roll Sunoco pounced on the Beaver Retrievers, 5-4 in a low-scoring contest. In other games of merit, the Taints closed in on the Mule Erection team, but it was too late as the Mule shot at the buzzer, 51-50. The Shirts clobbered the Skins last Thursday at 7:30 on court 2, 103-41, and the Brown Excretions eased their way past the Anal Sphincters, in a long one (four overtimes) 88-87. There were several other games played, but we would have had to walk all the way back over to the gym to get the scores, and it was cold. My cohort just had on his green flannel shirt with the hole in the left sleeve (you know the one).

And now a potential feature, a letter from some of our fans:

Dear Mr. Bad Bernard and Mr. Bonehead,

Regarding Women’s IMAC basketball, we are appalled at the misleading nature of the teams’ names. Such names as Penthouse Rowdies, Hot to Trot, Twice as Nice, Silly Rabbits, and Burkland’s Babes seem to imply a certain social atmosphere at Davidson College. We know for a fact that such an atmosphere does not exist. As astute male observers at Davidson, we have suggestions for more appropriate names which would more accurately depict the situation among the coeds. Such names as the Frigidettes, the Ice Boxes, the Igloos, and the Gigantic Glaciers seem more suitable. Thank you.

The Illegitimate Sons of Goodell and Porter ’81

GRAPPLER PAT Dulaney wears down his Catawba opponent en route to victory. (Parks Snead)

Grapplers grope for victory
By DAVID PIPER
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team is still looking for its first victory after dropping three matches last week. Early in the week, Catawba beat Davidson 32-18. Winning their individual matches for the ‘Cats were Scott Smith, Pat Dulaney, and Scott Phillips. Phillips won on a first-period pin, Davidson’s only pin of the match. More serious than the team’s loss was the loss of 190-pounder Dave Nichols, who dislocated his elbow during his first collegiate match.

On Saturday, Davidson competed against the Citadel and VMI in a three-way match. The ‘Cats stood no chance from the start as they forfeited four weight classes owing to injuries and graduate record exams. The day’s only wins came from Scott Smith, Pat McKinsey, and Pat Dulaney. Dulaney was not pessimistic about the team after the dual match loss. “They were two of the toughest opponents on our schedule,” Dulaney said. “We’ll win some matches once we get everyone healthy.”