— Vol. Investments

College lacks formal policy

By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Davidson senior Jeff Metzel, after studying college holdings, found that “a lot of Davidson’s investments are in corporations in South Africa.” He said that “like most institutions, Davidson hasn't paid much attention to where its money is invested.”

Davidson currently lacks a formalized statement of investment policy. The Investment and Management Committee will be asked to consider whether such a statement is needed at the Trustees’ meeting Friday. College President Samuel R. Spencer said “a formal statement of investment policy would be desirable.”

According to Business Manager, Robert A. Currie, “There have been no problems up to this point with our investments.” If a controversial situation with moral and social implications were to arise, he said the college might take the option of adopting a specific written policy.

The basic objective of the IMC in managing endowment funds is to produce maximum long-range financial return, said Currie. A decision not to buy securities from a company would be made only in cases where the IMC determines such investment would violate “existing laws relating to such basic human rights as health, safety, or freedom,” said Currie. Currie added that the IMC would also not buy securities “solely to achieve an objective which seems socially desirable.”

LXVII, No. SEVENTEEN.

The IMC expects its investment counselors to “invest in companies with excellent management,” said Currie. If ever necessary, said Currie, the Committee could express its concerns over company practice directly to the company management. Currie explained that normally the IMC expresses its right of ownership in voting at stockholders’ meetings.

The Administration will also recommend that the IMC consider whether Davidson should endorse the Sullivan Principles. The Sullivan Principles are six guidelines for company policy in South Africa adopted by many United States firms. The principles have been studied and endorsed by a number of colleges, including Amherst, Dartmouth, and Princeton.

FOCUS, p. 6.

STEP-TUTORING is only one facet of the YM/YWCA.

[Gregg Strader]

International Studies need improvement

By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

“Every year the same kind of problems for international students come up and are discussed, but nothing is being done,” said Chairman of the Spanish Department Lois A. Kemp. Kemp submitted a recommendation to Vice President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann, listing problems which need to be considered “if the Administration is really concerned about international education.”

“I’m 100 percent in favor of having international students and of study abroad,” said Kemp. “I believe much can be done that is not currently being done, to improve, enlarge and cross-fertilize the international education program.”

There are at least seven areas which she thinks must be improved in order to help international students who come to Davidson become better integrated into the College community.

Trustee meeting Friday

The first problem Kemp sees is the constant turnover of students from year to year. “It takes a year for international students and freshmen alike to adjust to Davidson,” Kemp explained. She recommended that Davidson recruit international students who would be degree candidates and spend three or four years here. “These students would have a vested interest in Davidson. They would be here longer and, therefore, their impact would be more significant.”

“Foreign students who have been or are currently degree candidates here like Fai (Wong) are solid students,” she said. Davidson does not presently recruit international students as degree candidates. This is one area Kemp would like to see explored.

Kemp noted six administrative matters in her memorandum to Zimmermann which she felt needed immediate attention.

“The first thing the Administration and International Office need to do is make scholarship decisions by March 1 or at least regularize it so we know how much money will be available from one year to the next. This way we can recruit and select the international students earlier and set up some correspondence so they know what to expect when they get here,” she remarked.

A second problem was spending money. “Some international students arrive with a lot of money while others arrive with little or none,” she explained. “One of the jobs of the coordinator of international education should be to provide on-campus jobs for all international students who come here.”

Another problem is that some foreign students have no duties to perform for the College or for a department. Kemp commented thatThese students, who are on a full or partial scholarship, should have some responsibility whether it is tutoring students in a foreign language or being a departmental assistant. She believes this would increase the international students’ contacts with faculty and Davidson students. “Living arrangements have also not been satisfactory,” Kemp continued. “Integration into the College community would be more pleasant and easier if international students could live with 8 or 12 Davidson students in a house like Henderson House or Martin Manor rather than in the noisy dormitories.” Kemp also cited eating facilities as a problem for international students. “These students who are 20 or 22 years old are made to eat at Slater with over 200 17 and 18-year-olds. This makes it more difficult to form friendships. Why couldn’t space be made in one of the houses for each of these students so that they [see PROGRAM page 2]

SGA presents evaluation resolution
By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

The Student Government Association (SGA) will present a Senate Resolution criticizing Davidson’s lack of well-defined procedures and policy for faculty evaluation to the Board of Trustees at their meeting on campus this Friday. The Resolution, drafted by Senior SGA Senator David Tinkler and passed unanimously by the Senate, maintains that “recent events have revealed the deficiencies of the policies regarding the evaluation of faculty members for renewals of appointments.” It points out that, under the College Constitution, “the President or his delegate, in conjunction with the Faculty of its Committee on Professional Affairs” is responsible for formulating policies and procedures of evaluation.

The resolution stems in part from the Administration’s December 15 decision to terminate the contract of Tonia Devon, Professor of South Asian and Director of the South Asian Studies program, because of her “level of competence and effectiveness.” This decision has brought strong reactions from a number of students and faculty in recent weeks. Many have questioned the professionalism and objectivity of the current faculty evaluations process.

Six students met with College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. and Vice President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann on January 18 to express their concern over the procedure used in Devon’s evaluation. The students expressed particular concern over the way student evaluations were handled by the Administration. This group of students sent a letter on February 1 to the faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) requesting an “immediate and thorough investigation” of the Administration’s decision not to renew Devon’s contract.

The students brought 6 major concerns to the attention of the PAC. In the letter, these concerns were:
A. Lack of a codified set of procedures for soliciting evaluations.
B. Unethical solicitation of student evaluations—at least one student was ignorant of the fact that her comments in an interview with Zimmermann were to be used in the evaluation of Devon.
C. Inconsistency and vagueness in the criteria used in Devon’s evaluation.
D. Failure to communicate to Devon any weakness in her performance or effectiveness before the non-renewal decision.
E. Future of the South Asian Studies program.

The PAC met February 8 to discuss the students’ letter and consider the possibility of conducting an investigation. Chairman of the PAC Albert Allen Wolf (Professor of Physics) issued this statement at the end of the meeting: “As far as the Professional Affairs Committee is concerned the Devon case is closed unless Dr. Devon herself wishes to make a complaint. This position is in accord with paragraph II of Article X of the College Constitution.”

Paragraph II of Article X allows a non-tenured faculty member to request action by the PAC if he believes that a decision not to reappoint him was based significantly on considerations violative of academic freedom, or considerations violative of stated policies of the college in respect of non-discrimination on the basis of race, sex, or national origin, in employment practices, or personal malice. Devon had not, herself, requested a PAC investigation.

When informed of the PAC’s decision, Devon explained why she had not earlier submitted a statement to the PAC: “The burden of responsibility for proof rests with me. It’s difficult to establish for certain whether the Administration evidenced personal malice, discriminated on the basis of race or sex, or violated academic freedom in their evaluation of me.” She said she could establish her academic and professional qualifications but that the PAC was looking for evidence of discriminatory measures employed by the administration in their evaluation process.

The SGA Resolution was passed on January 31.