The Davidsonian Opinion

To the Editor—

This letter is to express my thanks to Bill Peeples for last week's article on the motivations of students for
enrolling in ROTC. Any attempt to raise your readers’ consciousness concerning the military and its place (or lack thereof) on
a liberal arts campus is valuable and concerns not only those students enrolled in ROTC but also the entire college
community.

However, Mr. Peeples, I must take exception to several glaring inaccuracies and false impressions your article raises. In raising these
exceptions I present only my own viewpoint, not that of the Army or Davidson ROTC in particular. Davidson ROTC must
not be viewed as “military training” per se. The development of leadership skills is the primary goal of instruction. True
enough, the program emphasizes leadership skills in a military context, more specifically at the lieutenant’s level, and requires a certain
amount of technical knowledge. But what technical knowledge is imparted in four years of ROTC is merely for orientation. ROTC
does not train the cadet to “use effectively a various assortment of modern weaponry.” He or she is merely introduced
to basic military skills in order to more realistically understand the leadership problems involved in being an effective officer.

You say that the problem with Davidson ROTC is the participants’ motives for joining. Your basic assumption is that military
service is a patriotic enterprise, and that those who opt for it should do so out of love of country.
In times of crisis, I could agree with you, but in times of peace (such as now) that necessitate a
large standing army, military service becomes a job like any other. And if this is so, the job must offer
its employees adequate incentives if it seeks full employment. Army ROTC offers these benefits through education assistance, making military service
a viable option for some in their career development. I am one such person, and I resent greatly your questioning
my motives. ROTC has paid for my Davidson experience, one which I might not otherwise have had. In return, I
am willing to undertake an obligation of military service. Yes, and that includes placing myself in the position of possible
combat duty. If another Vietnam crisis should arise, I would be reluctant to fight, but am enough of a man
to live up to my obligations. I resent your inference that reluctance to fight puts my patriotism in doubt, or
that patriotism and pacifism are mutually exclusive. We damn well better be reluctant to fight. All war IS wrong. But
an even greater wrong is the blind, unquestioning devotion you seem to be looking for, Mr. Peeples. Davidson's ROTC students
are not of your “patriotic” type, but instead of being a problem, this is ROTC’s and the Army’s greatest strength.
This country depends on the “citizen soldier,” or more importantly, it depends on the responsible soldier. One who not only
knows how to do his job, but also why he must do it. Your criticism bypasses this important concept. The
Army does know what it is doing when it trades scholarships for years of service. It is beneficial for both
the Army and the cadet. The Army gets qualified, responsible officers and the student is allowed to further his education.
Quoting one cadet, and a junior at that (who has doubtless never been to Ft. Bragg, much less knows the
mind of regional headquarters), about Army policy relating to Davidson ROTC is little more than hearsay journalism, and bad hearsay
journalism at that. I seriously doubt that VMI or The Citadel cadets “romanticize war” more.

Wastes threaten man

Shipments of materials involved in the nuclear power industry differ in their content and degree of radioactivity. Enriched uranium, spent
fuel, and other high-level wastes are of particularly great concern, because their radioactivity is most intense. Prior to shipment, spent
fuel just removed from the reactor core is stored in cooling pools in order to allow some of the fission
products to decay. When the nuclear fuel cycle moves along as planned, storage periods will commonly be 90 or 150
days long for the average reactor.

At present no fuel reprocessing is taking place, and spent fuel remains indefinitely at reactor or separate storage sites. The
level of radioactivity in a spent fuel shipment is very high, and release of its contents in a transportation accident
could lead to damage of disastrous proportions. The most dramatic and immediate effects would involve human and wildlife populations directly
exposed near the site of an accident. For example, gaseous clouds of radioactivity could stream from the damaged fuel cask
and disperse over various distances depending on weather conditions. Man is on the end of many food chains and will
end up with some of the highest concentrations if more and more radioactivity continues to be released into the environment.
In an urban area with a population of hundreds of thousands, such consequences would be severe. In any case, a
substantial area of land would need evacuating and would remain contaminated for many years. Higher velocity winds would significantly alter
an accident’s effects, since the radioactivity would then be dispersed throughout a wider area. Very large numbers of people would
be subject to long-term exposure through breathing, eating, or simply by direct exposure to decaying radioactive materials lying on the
ground.

At present the likelihood of accidental release of spent fuel materials and other high-level wastes during transport raises serious concern.
In the future, if nuclear development moves towards the extensive use of plutonium as fuel, there will be a dramatic
increase in the amount of plutonium available for release as it travels along our highways and railways. Plutonium particles the
size of a speck of dust and weighing only 10 millionths of a gram would likely cause cancer if inhaled
into the lungs. A few thousandths of a gram can cause death from fibrosis of the lungs within a few
weeks or less. One ounce of plutonium is enough tokill every human being on earth if it could be widely
dispersed. Next week—The Barnwell Reprocessing Plant and its effects on S.C., Carolina.

than Davidson’s cadets. Hopefully, no cadets anywhere do. I also doubt that VMI or Citadel people are any more motivated
than D.C. cadets, and I draw on my experience with them in ROTC to support me. It may be true
that more military school cadets are interested in professional military careers. But this in no way cheapens those cadets who
want some military experience as a part of their education and career development. Though I appreciate your interest, Mr. Peeples,
and look forward to talking to you about ROTC should you so desire, I feel your article could have been
more carefully thought out and more thoroughly researched. Hopefully, your article may prompt others to ask their friends in ROTC
about their motivations for participating.

— Every student, every American needs to make responsible decisions concerning his or her participation and attitude toward the military
which, for good or ill, apparently is a necessary part of American society. But it is no shame for all
of us, including and especially we who are in the military, to earnestly desire and work for peace. I put
to you, Mr. Peeples, that this is the highest sort of patriotism any person can display.

Cadet Lt. Colonel Matthew B. Horne
Battalion Commander
Davidson ROTC

Letter to the Editor
Act for student rights

To the Editor—

The forces of administrative oppression threaten our collective integrity, yet we stand idly by, dispassionate spectators observing our rights being
flushed down the john. Are we, the students, to assume that the administration plays the role of wise benefactor, adjusting
states of affairs to fit the students’ needs? To do so would be naive. The administration orders affairs to suit
their ends, and if their ends and the students’ happen to coincide, we must regard the coincidence as remarkable. Should
the administration be allowed to perpetrate injustices to achieve their purposes, to snatch from the students what is rightfully theirs?
If the administration provided the funds for the continuance of the College, they could justly do as they pleased. But
who picks up the tab at the end of the meal, who grubs for the worms to feed the baby
birds, in short, by virtue of whom does the College function? The students. Now quite obviously we must pay someone
to do the requisite paperwork, to drum up other pigeons to support the College, to plunder antiquated relics of their
fortune in the name of higher education. And here the administration seems to serve some useful function. But as to
affairs that directly impinge on the students’ welfare, wherein lies the administration’s right to determine the choices available to the
students? Does Dr. Zimmermann decide to take four courses so that he might take two later? Does Dr. Spencer struggle
through add-drop? No. We, not they, must be the bearers of the manifold burdens imposed upon us. Consequently, we should,
in the large part, be the arbiters of our fate with respect to matters such as these. A professor is
summarily dismissed for alleged “professional incompetence;” the administration plays judge, jury, and executioner; the students watch powerlessly while the Divine
hand of administrative righteousness slays the flagitious felon. Cries of arbitrary evaluation are heard; the administration then plots a course
whereby they may punish similar iniquities in orderly fashion. Did Dr. Zimmermann ever take South Asian Studies? (Of course the
faculty has already determined that two-thirds of the world really isn’t there.) Indignities are heaped upon us, yet we wait
passively for the lion to devour us. Should we not instead become the lion? We have the power to cripple
this college if we so wish; strength lies in organized unanimity, and the will to act. We can have the
rights we deserve, we can abolish administrative paternalism, we can dismember the tentacles that threaten to strangle us. But only
at the price of forceful action.

Mark Kooks '78
Davidson College

Opinion
New awards

By REV. HYDEN SEEKER

Peggy Lee released a song a few years ago entitled, “Is That All There Is?” As much as I enjoyed
witnessing my fellow students receiving awards at the Convocation ceremony last week, that tune kept ringing in my ears. It
seemed to me that those few awards given should not be “all there is” (pardon my grammar) to the Convocation.
Therefore I'd like to offer just a few additional citations that would serve to make the ceremony more completely fulfilling.
Hopefully, the following will be listed in the back of the college catalog, and on the Convocation program.

Thom Young O.D.K. Honorary Fraternity--The Obviously Dedicated awards are established for those individuals who have tirelessly and selflessly given hundreds
of hours to the college, and as a result of that sacrificed time allowed their grade point averages to slip
past the Omicron Delta Kappa requirement of “top 35 percent.” This fraternity is named for the former Student Government Association
president who held that office longer than anyone else in the history of Davidson, was an articulate spokesman for the
students during the “Christian Tenure” turmoil, but alas did not even get his name mentioned at the Spring Convocation Awards
Ceremony.

Thomas A. Cartmill Medal--Awarded annually to the speaker who in a public forum, demonstrates the quick and creative wit exhibited
by the athletic director for whom it is named; particularly in regard to the extremely humorous anecdotes at the 1978
Spring Convocation Ceremony.

Price Zimmermann “Best Dressed” Award--Given, not necessarily on an annual basis, to the person or persons who demonstrate particular good
taste in attire by wearing a polka-dot bow tie for a minimum of 13 consecutive days.

Tonia Devon Memorial Trophy--Given each year as a bon-voyage gift and unemployment compensation to those professors who are fired for
no particularly good reason, and who best fail to live up to the tenet, “Don’t go away mad; just go
away.”
