Gi-Maerin Bente. casas Menege’
September 29, 1978

Dear Gentlemen of the Board of Trustees:

We are glad to see you here for a special session to discuss Davidson's 1987 Campaign. Fund-raising is a tedious
but essential task, and if Davidson’s financial future is to be secure, the Board must lend full and active support
to the 1987 campaign.

Though the Board will not officially discuss regular business this weekend, you should know what has been happening at Davidson
this fall in order to make well-advised policy decisions at regular Board meetings later in the year. Allow us to
cover two topics that have been widely discussed during September:

WDAV: It’s not so much what has been done as it is how it’s been done. According to the College
Constitution, WDAV is a student media organization, afforded the same rights and responsibilities as other student media, governed by the
Student Media Board, a diverse body representing all segments of the College community. But since the Constitution was adopted two
years ago, both the students and the community have lost the control over WDAV that is granted to them in
the Constitution. Currently, the policy decisions regarding WDAV are made by the Board and implemented by a few administrators. This
collapsing of the community’s influence over a student media outlet into a handful of top-level governors is a clear violation
of the College Constitution. The Constitution requires that all members of the community are to have a meaningful voice in
shaping the direction of all student media (including WDAV) through the Media Board. We recommend that the Board bring its
WDAV policy directives into line with that requirement.

Code of Faculty Hiring and Evaluation Procedures: Here again, democratic participation by the community is the key. Since last spring,
Academic Vice President Zimmermann and the administration have worked in good faith with the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) to
establish hiring and evaluation guidelines acceptable to all. With some revision to eliminate language hinting of religious exclusivity, the Zimmermann-PAC
Code (now in its third draft) sets forth an acceptable philosophy for faculty hiring, development, and evaluation. The flaw of
the Code is that the administration is almost singularly responsible for putting that philosophy into practice. The administration guides the
school for the Trustees and must necessarily influence personnel decisions, but teaching is done by professors for students, and both
of these groups should bear meaningful responsibility in personnel decisions. We recommend and ask that the Board request the administration
and faculty to pursue the establishment of an Evaluation and Tenure Committee composed of administrators, faculty, and students. With these
groups working together to build an outstanding faculty, Davidson advances one step closer to excellence.

Sincerely,
Philip Duncan
Editor

The full picture

Why are there no students on Davidson's Board of Trustees? Though no one seems to have given this question much
consideration, clear thinking reveals that adding three students to the Board as full voting members would benefit the College community.
Because it wields the power to set Davidson’s general policies, direct the President, and influence long-range goals, the Board of
Trustees is certainly the most influential group of people associated with the College.with. tees exists. A student may corner a
member of the Board at a Trustee reception, but how much influence can that student expect to have in a
hurried conversation amidst a crowd of people? The SGA President, a de facto visitor at full Board meetings, has limited
input into subcommittee deliberations (where Trustee work is done) and is little the College. In short, the Board is the
governing body for Davidson. Charged with this responsibility to oversee and to guide, the Trustees must pay Trustees: in —
reed cutting ots input + Aon seteaogies bolts of nd sie epeegpot me tly no. meaningful avenue of communication between
students and Trustees. Truly interested in opinions during He will maintain a concern for the College as an alumnus. Both
Vanderbilt and Wake Forest Universities have added students to their Board of Trustees with favorable results. It is time for
Davidson to take this step for Bill Barnett and Philip Duncan.

Editor's Note—This letter, commending the actions of Georgeann Vagt '82 at the Freshman Regatta, was passed on to The Davidsonian
by President Spencer.

Dear Dr. Spencer,

A note to let you know of a very workmanlike and brave performance by a Davidson Freshman, Georgeann Vagt. At
the beginning of the freshman "creative boat" race at the lake Sunday afternoon, a young man apparently fainted and was
separated from the raft that he was riding or shoving along in the water. I first noticed that a young
lady (Georgeann) was saying, “Hey somebody, come and get this guy!” I think she said it a second time as
a couple of big Davidson students noticed and ran to help her, and I ran for a

Letter to the Editor

Blackwell applauds coed’s heroic effort

The young man said he just suddenly gave out of wind and he didn’t know what happened. He lay on
the grass with another student attending him for quite a while (perhaps two hours) with a severe headache, which made
me think he had fainted in the water. Anyhow, the young lady, to my mind, indeed, saved his life and
should be commended for her entire action. She seemed somewhat surprised that she couldn’t get enough hold on the young
man to hold his head entirely free of the water, making me think he was nearly unconscious in her arms,
and but for her, none would have seen the young man until too late.

Taylor Blackwell
The Village Store
Davidson, N.C.

News Editors
Department Assistants— News — Dom Atm Page — Sheri Gravett; Focus — Coal: Executive Editors PAMELA CAMERRA LYMAN A. COLLINS,
II BILL BARNETT HARRY GREYARD Senior Editors BANE WENNOWEN Assignments Editor Cadwell, Sports — Mike Britt, John Willingham;

Box 218, postage paid at the U.S. Post Office. The Davidsonian's editorial policy is based on the editor's discretion. The
opinions expressed in the newspaper's editorials are those of the editorial board and do not necessarily represent the views of
the administration. Subscription rates are $10 per year. Second-class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office.
