8 : The Davidsonian | December 15, 1978

Set relay record Cagers face

Cats dunk UNC-W road, tourneys

The Wildcats, now 4-1, after

By SKIP BARKLEY In addition to the record a loss to a tough NE State
Staff Writer setting victories, other indivi- squad, begin an extended road
dual wins were recorded by Pete trip during the Christmas

Davidson's swimming team Neefus in the one meter diving, break.
scored a big victory by defeat- and Craig Allen in the 200 The team faces Western Ken-
ing UNC-Wilmington’s scholar- individual medley. Some other tucky on December 15 and then
ship-laden squad last Saturday. notable performances were travels to Indiana to play in the
The final score, a surprisingly turned in by swimmers who did prestigious Indiana Classic,
wide margin of 67-46, does not not finish first. December 18 and 19. After a
truly indicate the closeness of Mike Schremmer made up a few days off, the Cats head west
the meet. It was not until the half lap in the last twelve laps of to New Mexico to play in the
last three events that the Wild- the 1000 yard freestyle (40 laps) Lobo Classic December 29 and
cats pulled the meet out. to place third and Rick Williams 30.
With the score tied at 44-44, held off two UNC-W competi- On January 2, number-one
Davidson began the blitz which tors in the last lap of the 200 ranked Duke will come to
gave them their convincing meter breaststroke to take a Charlotte for a game that
victory. Swimmers Keith Rid- crucial second. promises to be an exciting one
dle and Rick Williams swept 1st The next competition for to watch.
and 2nd places in the 200 yard Davidson comes after Christ- After a contest against Sou-
breaststroke to put Davidson mas break. During this time the thern-Conference foe Furman in
up 52-45 and then divers Pete team will work out at home on Greenville, S.C. on January 6,
Neefus and John Verdi put the their own for two weeks. At the Cagers return home for a
meet out of reach with a 1-2 that time they will reassemble game against the Fighting Irish
finish in the 3 meter diving at Davidson to embark on a trip of Notre Dame, presently the
event. to St. Petersburg, Florida. second-ranked team in the
At this point the score was Once in Florida the swimmers country, on January 8.
60-46 with the 400 yard free- will practice 5 1/2 hours a day
style relay as the only event (approximately 8 miles dist-
left. The relay team won easily ance) for eight days before
and at the same time estab- returning to Davidson for the
lished a new school record for completion of their winter sche-
the event. Members of the dule.
winning relay team were Paul
Voight, Craig Allen, Craig Fin-
ger, and Warren Beck.

For Paul Voight it was his
first 3 games
He established the 100 yard
free style mark earlier this year
and added a second and a third
school record to his achieve-
ments against UNC-W.
Besides the 400 yard free
relay record established in this
meet, Voight also set a new 50
yard freestyle mark. For the
year Voight remains undefeated
in all the races he has entered.
Mark Tommerdahl set a new
school record in the 1000 meter
freestyle, bringing to four the
total of school records set this
year. This high total of records
for this early in the season is
indicative of the team’s hard
work throughout the fall term.
Coach Pat Miller was deligh-
ted with the victory and re-
marked, “I knew we had a
chance to beat UNC-W, but I
never imagined a victory by this
type of margin. I thought that
we might win by a few points at
the most.”

Winter
Sports

Women’s Basketball

UNCC Away
Wingate Home 7 pm
Wagner Home 7 pm
Meredith Home 7 pm
Greensboro College
Away
Furman Home 4 pm
Old Dominion Away
Wrestling
Campbell Away

Novice Lady Cats

Despite the fact that the lady
Wildcat basketball team is now
0-3, coach Susie Roberts is not
particularly worried. “We're
improving with each game.”
She explains, “Right now that’s
our objective.”
Last Wednesday night the
women dropped their second
game, to Catawba 68-56, des-
pite 14 rebounds and 11 points
from Sarah Womack and a
game high 18 points from
Donna Ferren.
Friday, the girls took the
floor against a strong Bennet
team and took their bumps in
the form of a 66-33 loss.
Womack contributed 14
points per game average.
“Our inexperience has been
showing,” says Roberts, “all
our games have been close until
the girls have lost their poise.”
Adding injury to insult, re-
serve center Genevra Kelly
damaged the ligaments in her
knee in practice Monday after-
noon and is out indefinitely.
On Thursday, the girls travel
to Davidson Community Col-
lege for their last game of 1978.
“We should win that one,”
hopes Roberts, “it would be
nice to start Christmas vacation
with a victory.”

JAMIE HALL fires up a shot
against NC State. The Cats fell
to 7th-ranked State 97-77.
(Phil Howerton)

The Copeland
House Gallery

We have a full selection of ready-to-use and custom frames to
make that family photo into a handsome portrait for someone special this
Christmas. Stop in for a free estimate of your picture framing needs.

Larry G. Wells
President

The Professionals

HI FI EQUIPMENT

Special order on any albums not in stock
Ordered at no extra cost

OWCAS

162 N. Main St.
P. O. Box 1041
Mooresville, N.C. 28115

305 N. Main St. Davidson

GIVE FOR CHRISTMAS
and GIVE to YOURSELF

Down Jackets,
Hoods, and Vests.
Longies and
insulated Underwear
Ski Pajamas
Flannel Robes
Chamois Shirts

DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE

Students-

Hope your Christmas
Holidays are great
Hurry back!

FREE GIFT WRAPPING
Open Nightly til 8:30