The Davidsonian * May 5, 1978

MacCormac plans tenure committee.

(Continued from page 1)

MacCormac’s proposal continues, “the President shall submit the written recommendation of the Committee along with his own recommendation to the
Trustees.” The proposal concludes, “This Committee also shall hear appeals from those faculty who have not been granted tenure.”

MacCormac emphasized that his proposal would be a fulfillment of the College Constitution, not an amendment. MacCormac proposed a Tenure
Committee in 1973, but the faculty did not enact it. What does he think the chances of the passage of
this proposal? “I don’t know what will happen. I don’t want to be a prophet of doom or a prophet
of joy.

“I think that tenure is a greater issue now than it was then, because of the problems of the job
market, and we have lots of young people here. And we have a splendid faculty here—very, very good people here,
young people and older people, too. In my judgment, this is the best faculty Davidson College has ever had.

“So you want to have the fairest possible system,” MacCormac continued. “My primary reason for proposing it is the same
as it was five years ago: I believe that faculty members have a responsibility to protect their academic freedom by
investing themselves in the process of selecting people for tenure and not leaving it to administrators.

“The public at large, regents, some trustees here and everywhere criticize us for using tenure as job security, and I
think it is in our own self-interest to protect tenure so that we can speak the truth as we see
it—and we may not always possess the truth, but there is no one capital truth—but so that we can speak
freely and teach freely when we maintain this protection for that right and not just to hide behind it for
job security. And the way to do that is to become involved in the process.

“And it will be painful for a faculty to tell other faculty that they can’t stay here and have a
job, but they ought to be able to assume that responsibility.

“They have a further responsibility, and that is to maintain competence of the whole faculty, tenured and non-tenured. This can
be done positively by encouragement, not by threatening people. So I think this ought to be a normal thing.”

The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) held a meeting of the faculty Tuesday to continue discussion of the Code of Evaluation.
After completing the Code deliberation, the subject of a faculty evaluation committee was discussed, although MacCormac’s proposal was not specifically
dealt with.

According to Professor of History David Shi, some of the faculty at the meeting were concerned “that a faculty committee
would tend to be too subjective in its evaluation and not be really rigorous. It would want to give tenure
to everyone,” he said.

Professor of History David Rice commented, “I believe very strongly that faculty tenure is fundamentally faculty business. I don’t care
what the particular constitution of this college is.” Rice added, “I think in general you'll find across the country that
faculty have much more input into this decision-making process than they do here.” Rice says he supports MacCormac’s proposal “wholeheartedly.
It seems to me the obvious solution.

“It’s time Davidson College recognized that it has for a long time been living in a fool’s paradise. It’s not
the case across the board in the country that everyone who comes here can pretty much presume that if they
stay long enough, they will get tenure.”

---

Faded Glory Announces a Special Get Acquainted Offer

Bis through May 20th

All Davidson College Students with a valid I.D. receive a 10% discount on all purchases

Specializing in TOPS

Lisa Linn
French Star
Landlubber
Lemon Twist
Snapfinger
Topioka
Maverick
Paradise
Turtle Bax
Washington Dee Cee
Andrew MacRae& others 7 “If everything goes well, he or she will get tenure. It doesn’t work well in practice.
The faculty is getting much more heavily tenured. The time will come when decisions are going to have to be
made by a committee of peers rather than two administrators whose purpose is to administer. Their attitude toward the running
of this college may be in some very fundamental ways different than those of the faculty. The faculty have to
live with other faculty; administrators come and go.”

Rice also stated that his experience with a faculty committee has shown him that “faculty are harder than administrators on
these things. Again, from the perspective that decisions they make usually involve a lifetime commitment. It’s people they have to
live with for the next thirty years or so that they have to choose.

“I’ve never heard of that argument before, and I find it absurd on the surface. There’s no reason why the
faculty should be more lenient than the administration or that students should be more lenient. I just think that’s a
false argument; it’s irrelevant to the whole situation.”

The real question, according to Rice, is whether faculty are willing to accept the responsibility of evaluating other faculty. “I
think the vast majority, of the older faculty at least, are prepared to abdicate the responsibility and leave it to
the administration. I regret this very deeply.”

Another aspect of the debate over the tenure committee should be whether students should serve on the committee. Some opponents
argue that students may judge a professor harshly or unfairly because of a poor grade in his course or other
such reasons. Also, confidentiality, some argue, should be kept as tight as possible. MacCormac recognizes “certain limitations” students may have
in evaluating faculty, but he stated, “On the issue of confidentiality, I think students would treat it very carefully, very
responsibly, and not leak out personnel information.

“My experience with the Honors Center the three years I was dean was to have students sit on evaluation committees
for other students.” MacCormac said, “They were extremely responsible, they were harsher on other students in terms of maintaining high
standards than the faculty generally were, and they were quite open in telling other students after the meeting of their
own will why they voted against them—not revealing how we, the faculty, voted, but they would go up to a
student and say, ‘Look, I don’t think you’re ready for entrance.’

“Five years ago, I wasn’t willing to recommend students for such a committee. After my experience in the Honors Center,
which is limited and may not be universal, I have to speak out on my experience at Davidson College, I
would recommend having students.

“I think the role of the student is to ensure that there be some fair way of taking a random
sampling and a careful evaluation of faculty members in terms of their effectiveness of teaching.”

Ros. Electronic Service and Sales
The Shop
663-4513
334 S. Academy
Mooresville, N.C.

Remember All Mothers
Sunday, May 14!
Hallmark © 1977 Hallmark Cards, Inc

Values to $27
All $19 & under

Hours 875-6042

Similar savings
CORDS & TAPES, $7 list
Records & Tapes 5%
Tennis Racquets & Apparel, Sunglasses, Plants
Pipes, Papers, Incense, Etc.
Everything at Popular Prices
I-77 - Exit 11
Mon—Fri 12 noon to 3

on all shirts & tops

Remember all the special mothers in your life—
Mom, Grandmother, Sis, Aunt, Daughter—with a beautiful Hallmark Mother’s Day Card.

THE VILLAGE STORE
South Main Street
Davidson, N.C.

When you care enough to send the very best.
