nian The MNavider fen ~ December 8, 1978

Bad Bernard lists IMAC all-stars

By BAD BERNARD AND BONEHEAD
IMAC Columnists

Regardless of what you may have heard, the simious and addle-brained duo of Bad Bernard and Bonehead are back on
the job with hundreds of bogus and deceitful stories to report. However, we can say in all honesty that the
cold winter month of December is now upon us, and just as this is the season in which the great
furry Catywampus must return to his cave to avoid the cold and winter chills, it is also the time when
all loyal Davidson students must seek shelter in Johnston gym to avoid the "frigid surroundings" on campus. In other words,
it is IMAC basketball season. (arf-hooray and other assorted exclamations and interjections!)

Last year’s A-league champions, the SAE’s, were hurt by graduation in the frontcourt. To replace these losses (Bondurant 6’5”, Daisley
6’4”, Brown 6’4”), the Baggers signed former Davidson varsity players Danny Hock and Locke White. Hock, a 6’5” junior, possesses
a silky smooth jumper, and White, also a junior (although a non-SAE), has lightning speed in the backcourt and is
also a superlative shooter. Once they blend with the returning nucleus (Andy McDonald, Tim Goodell, Stoney Reuning, and Adrian Wilson),
it would take an idiot to say this team won’t be a contender.

The SAE ballclub will face a strong challenge from both the Excitable Boys and Bye. The Excitable Boys are basically
a New York all-star team with Kevin Doherty and Bob Lapple leading the way. Bye, a team which could easily
win it all come February, consists of former Wildcat cager Kirk Combe, sophomore skywalker Rand Malone, and 6’7” David Jones.

More about the teams later; now a focus on this year’s all IMAC players.

BB and B ALL-IMAC team:

Andy McDonald -- forward -- SAE -- a complete player, swept all honors last season as he grabbed the MVP
in the A-league tourney as well as the regular season, an unselfish player whose strongest points are his amazing ability
to move without the ball and his passing, 6’3”.

Kevin Doherty -- forward -- Excitable Boys -- an all-city player in NYC during his high school days, had 14
against UCLA his freshman year, a natural leaper who can two-hand reverse dunk with ease, proved last season against VMI
and Appy St. that he possesses a jumper good from 18 feet, 6’3”.

Danny Hock -- center -- SAE -- two years experience on the Davidson varsity, a big man who can fill
the lane and hit the jumper, but also control the boards, tends at times to be a streak shooter; if
he is on, then it is all over, played against Philadelphia 76er Dawkins in high school, 6’5”.

Locke White -- guard -- SAE -- also has played on the Davidson varsity, starred in high school at Woodberry
Forest, has uncanny quickness, can stop on a dime and release a jumper which ripples the nets, 6’3”.

Bobby Lapple -- guard -- Excitable Boys -- a physical player, some might even call him a mini-power forward, has
excellent leaping ability, an overall excellent athlete, must drop off IMAC team early for varsity baseball, 6’1”.

2nd Team:

Rand Malone -- forward -- 6’3” -- Bye -- a smooth all-around player, shared last year’s freshman IMAC player of
the year with Gifford Piercy, excels as a leaper, jumper is good up to 15 feet, willing to get on
the floor for loose balls, a true hustler.

Tim Goodell -- forward -- 6’4” -- SAE -- most underrated player in IMAC, critics say he is a poor
leaper and fails in the transition game, but he easily compensates with his smooth play, nice shooting touch, rebounding agility,
and team attitude, and will eventually be a key player for SAE.Lost to baseball like Lapple. Kirk Combe -- forward
-- 6’5” -- Bye -- graduated from DC in '76, experience on some excellent Wildcat cage teams, senior year his
IMAC team (I Felta Thigh) swept it all, a rugged player who performs in the clutch, an excellent shooting touch.
Minor Sinclair -- guard -- 6'1” -- Wagon Ho -- a player who is excellent around the bucket, is weak
in the physical game, but he possesses a soft shot and can often out-finesse his stronger opponents, must provide more
rebounds for Bye to win it all. Adrian Wilson -- guard -- 6'0" -- SAE -- a gutty player who
excels in backcourt skills, a fine dribbler and passer, ignites the explosive SAE fast break, during his tenure at Davidson
he has won the 3 on 3 championship three times and the A-league 5 on 5 title twice.

BB and B All Frosh Team:
Craig Binkley; guard
Hill Stockton; guard
James McLain; forward
Rick Dominick; forward
Jimmy Matson; center

Honorable mention all-IMAC:
Roger Hodge, Mike Peskosky, Vince Parker, Stoney Reuning, Skip Barkley, Tim Stoll, Joby Merten, Cam Surbruegg, Van Beck, Jim Evans,
Joe Ford, Craig Finger, Randy Harwell, Doug Horn, Tony Langley, Bryan Collins, Ed Goode, Mark Polhill, Dave Vaughn.

TEAM CAPSULES:
SAE -- (1) -- a solid favorite to repeat for the third straight year as IMAC champs. No visible weaknesses,
team has no gunners or ball hogs (a surprise anytime there is this much true hoop talent around). Hock must
accept role as chiefly a rebounder once Goodell leaves for baseball if team is to win at all.

Bye -- (2) -- might be a favorite but there are too many “ifs.” What if this team had a
true point guard? With their horses up front they would be deadly. Jones must average eight to nine rebounds if
the team is to win. Hodge is a tough competitor and will surprise many with his non-stop hustle.

Excitable Boys -- (3) -- would be ranked higher but Lapple and Doherty will not be around for the IMAC
tourney as they both have baseball obligations. With the two players however, there is no telling who they could beat
(the SAE’s, UNCC, or even the Squatty Bodies).

Droogs -- (4) -- might be too high of a ranking for this team of all freshman football players, team
center Matson had two dunks in season opener and star guard Craig Binkley had 30 points. Other players on the
team, though, appear to have seen a basketball for the first time last week.

Hurtin for Certain -- (5) -- a young quick team which lacks a true center, no way this team can
win it all, but they might have a say in just who will. Could upset a stronger team if they
used a delay game.

Wagon Ho -- (6) -- team has some talented players in Barkley, Sinclair, and Horn but first must overcome the
poor play of its own players like Barry Sachtjen and Harry Griffith.

Five Easy Pieces -- (7) -- too early to tell just what they will have.

Bone Crushers -- (8) -- ditto. Later.

In Women's games, the Silly Rabbits won big over the Barkland’s Babes, 48-10. Twice as Nice, last year’s championship team,
won their first game by forfeit over Hot to Trot. Hope McArn and Cathy Inabnet should help Twice as Nice
give the Rabbits some stiff competition. Other action included the 19-17 overtime win of the Bops over Three’s Company. This
victory marked a milestone in the life of IMAC President John Ratliff, as he recorded his first win ever as
coach. The Penthouse Rowdies Plus defeated P and the Buttondowns by a score of 18-14. Martha Frye was top scorer
for the Rowdies. Ruskeller, led by Ann Clark, easily triumphed 16-6 over Wrong! The Amazing Greys edged the M&M's 20-16.

Cattes drop first
By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

Despite Sarah Womack’s 22 points and 13 rebounds, the Davidson Wildcattes fell to Converse in their season’s first contest, 58-43.
The Wildcattes led throughout most of the first period but a late surge by Converse tied the score at halftime.
Converse opened the second half with a full-court press that disrupted the Davidson offense. Wildcatte Coach Susan Roberts said, “The
girls just fell apart.” The press caused repeated Davidson ball-handling mistakes that allowed Converse to attain its final 15-point advantage.
“The girls definitely have the potential to be winners,” said Roberts after the loss, “but our inexperience showed through.” “We
also need more than two scorers,” Roberts added, referring to efforts of Womack and Kirby Owen, who garnered 12 points.
“Our goal right now is to keep on improving.” The Wildcattes travel to Bennett College in Greensboro Friday, and to
Davidson Community College in Lexington next Thursday.
