Volume LXVIII, Number Nine
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

College reviews investment policy

In response to recent protests over economic support of corporations with ties to South Africa, Davidson’s Board of Trustees’ Finance Committee is presently reviewing the school’s investment policy. They are expected to make a recommendation later to the entire board as to whether Davidson should divest itself of such holdings.

Davidson’s long-term investment policy is managed by Scudder, Stevens, & Clark, an investment counseling firm. The portfolio includes securities, cash, long and short-term bonds, and common stock. General Motors Acceptance Corporation, with a market value of approximately $65,800. G.M. has two foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, General Motors of South Africa, Ltd., and General Motors Acceptance Corporation of South Africa, Ltd. Davidson owns common stock in International Business Machines with an approximate market value of $446,801. IBM in turn owns IBM Ltd. of South Africa. The school also holds long-term bonds of Union Carbide, which has four companies in South Africa, and a proprietary interest in a fifth.

Senate seeks restitution

By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

Student Body President Bruce Brown said Tuesday he wants to recover some of the thousands of dollars in Student Activity Tax revenue that have been granted to WDAV. He said he plans to seek at least partial cash restitution and recovery of student-owned equipment.

“WDAV was given $6,000 last year because it was thought to be a student activity and had always been regarded as such,” said Brown. “The ATC is supposed to award funds to student activities only, not college programs.” (The ATC is a subcommittee of the Senate and is composed of faculty, staff, and students. Each spring it allocates student tax funds to student organizations.)

Brown continued, “WDAV has been awarded substantial funds to buy a control board and radio components, among other things. It is not our intention to bequeath this equipment to the administration. This would amount to giving away student money, which would be irresponsible on our part. WDAV will definitely not receive funds from us this spring.”

Plans to recover student property and money are incomplete at this time, said Brown, but the Senate already has in its possession a substantial portion of student-bought WDAV equipment, including the old control board. “Right now, we are waiting to see what the administration intends to do,” Brown remarked.

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Asst. News Editor

Members of the administration said that no decision has been made concerning the re- (see Give, page 2)

Committee picks four Watson nominees

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

The Graduate Fellowships Committee selected four seniors Friday afternoon to represent Davidson in competition for Thomas J. Watson Fellowships. The four will present their proposed projects to a Watson Fellowship Foundation representative in January as the final step of the selection process for the Fellowship.

David Barnard, Lancia Bingaman,Glenn Darbyshire and Bonnie Wright were chosen from among fourteen seniors who submitted proposals for the post-graduate independent study. The program, initiated in 1968, considers 176 nominations from 48 private colleges yearly. The seventy Watson Fellows selected receive $8,000 grants for one year of study and travel. Although the proposed projects vary widely in their subject matter, they must be “realistic, imaginative, and personally significant,” according to the Watson Foundation.

Bingaman, a biology major, has worked with animals in past summers at several zoos. “I hope to study the changing role of the modern zoo in fields of education, conservation, research, and display,” she said. Barnard explained, “My project concerns the differing rates of agricultural land reform in Pakistan and Taiwan.” While the Taiwanese have succeeded, the Pakistanis have not made much progress. “I want to investigate what aspects of Taiwan’s reforms could be used in Pakistan,” Barnard added.

Wright hopes to investigate a related problem, the flight of Latin American farmers from their land to urban slums. “I plan to study the problem in the context of two cities, Lima, Peru, and Caracas, Venezuela. Though I hope to talk with governmental officials,” Wright continued, “I want to get to the rural areas as well for a balanced view.”

Darbyshire wants to use the scholarship to go to three countries of the European Economic Common Market—Great Britain, Ireland, and France. “I want to examine the impact of the centralization in agricultural production on the socio-economic position of the small farmer and his rural community.” Darbyshire explained that the Common Market’s agricultural policy is resulting in the small farmer being squeezed out of business and that these farmers generally are not trained in other trades. Thus, they contribute to unemployment and to urban migration problems.

(see Nominees, page 9)

THIS LITTLE monster was one of dozens of children who participated in the pumpkin carving festivities in front of the College Union Tuesday. The children's YM/YWCA Step Tutors and the Fijis organized the Halloween party. (Bill Purcell)

Editors set target

Davidson’s new campus literary magazine said yesterday that they received more manuscripts than they had expected. If everything goes according to plan, the first issue of Hobart’s Park will be on everybody’s dorm room doorstep by December 1.

“Our definite target date is December 1. I don't see any reason why we can’t get it out by then or before,” said senior Lyman Collins, one of the nascent magazine’s three editors, along with Amanda Hall and Greg Hankins. In response to rumors that Hobart’s Park did not receive enough submissions, Collins said, “response in all areas has been an unqualified success.”

Hall agreed, “We have lots of copy in, lots of graphics in. In fact, more than we can use. We're very, very pleased.” Hall and Collins seemed generally optimistic about the quality of material submitted. “Sue Dehoney, short story and poetry editor, was very excited by the two short stories received.”