October 13, 1978

The Davidsonian

Booters hang tough with Apps firepower

By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

If soccer coach Karl Kremser had thoughts of a nationally ranked team and Saturday’s game is any indication of what it takes, he may as well forget it. The pushing, pulling, grabbing, tripping, and generally dirty play that took place on the field would make a mockery of Davidson's sacred honor code.

But given the circumstances, Appalachian’s aggressiveness is more understandable. They had just come off a game against North Carolina State that was best described as a “brawl."

Apparently N.C. State thought they could intimidate their more highly skilled opponents. The plan backfired as they lost 3 players to injuries (two shoulder separations and a knee injury) and the game.

Here at Davidson, a large crowd was treated to some fine soccer, marred only by the final score, 6-0, and the occasionally questionable play. Appalachian has four international players who exhibited some world-class play to the detriment of the Wildcats.

Davidson started the game in a tough defense, concentrating the players in their own third of the field.

Appalachian’s first goal came on a line drive knuckleball from the top of the goalie’s box that seemed to be sailing high over the goal. The ball then dove wildly, sinking into the corner of the Davidson goal.

The second goal was on a weak shot that rolled up to the goal through the goalie’s hands, between his legs, and trickled into the net. Nobody was more surprised than the Appalachian player credited with the score.

The third and last score of the half came on a high cross that six players rushed for, alternately trying to convert or prevent a score. Men and ball arrived in the same place at the same time. All six ended up on the ground and the ball ended up in the net.

The half ended with Appalachian on top 3-0, but two of those goals were certainly nothing to write home about.

In the first few minutes of the second half, the referees had apparently seen enough. One Appalachian player was discharged from the game without a warning and minutes later a second was yellow-carded (a yellow card is a warning, red is an ejection).

The ejection seemed to fire up the Davidson players who began to press the attack. But the stronger offense also spread the players out, allowing Appalachian to go one-on-one and score their last three goals.

Coach Kremser was pleased with the overall performance, especially in comparison to previous years.

“Last year we lost 8-0 and it could have been worse. We only got the ball over half field once. This year we had 18 or 14 shots on goal and with a little luck and a few less defensive lapses it could have been 3-0.”

He is particularly pleased with the team’s reaction under pressure and sees it as a real benefit.

“When a 17 or 18-year-old freshman goes head-to-head with a 25-year-old international player he’s going to be able to do much better than against someone on his own level.”

Against Furman on Tuesday, the Wildcats lost 1-0. Furman played what Kremser calls a “volleyball match,” just kicking the ball around, something he vows will never happen on a team he coaches.

“I may lose a few victories now, but my philosophy is to make a good team and some good players. We’re a 100 percent better team than we were at the beginning of the season.”

This is the first year in a long time that Davidson has recruited for soccer and Kremser is working to further that commitment. He feels it’s significant that some of the best soccer is played in the Ivy League and Davidson is uniquely suited to that same situation.

Perhaps... but presently these Davidson students are serving on Piedmont Bank's Student Advisory Board for 1978-79.

Introducing John Jackson '80, Paul Bradley '79, Tim Goodell '79, and Diana Pierce '81.
THE STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD —— ANOTHER WAY OF SAYING “WE CARE”

PIEDMONT BANK
MEMBER FDIC
AND TRUST COMPANY