8 April 21, 1978

Student poets arrange numerous presentations

By BETH LAWING
Staff Writer

The turnout was poor, say the committee members. But the fact that they received only six limericks for the contest,
although disappointing, has not discouraged the Union Poetry Committee. The committee, supported by Union funds, is composed of student poets
and poetry enthusiasts. They meet weekly to discuss upcoming events and ideas for new projects. At these meetings, members are
also encouraged to read their works for exposure and appraisal.

But the Poetry Committee’s activities are not limited to small group participations. They sponsor mini-theatres on Tuesday nights several times
each term. One held last month, entitled “Seven Poems with Jazz,” was the integration of music and literature. Another such
presentation is in the works—Bill Holiday and Lucy Long are collaborating on a Chinese Poetry and Oriental music “mini-theatre.” Committee
Chairman Kathy Long is presenting a reading on April 25 entitled “Job as Man,” based on the book of Job.

The Committee is also responsible for bringing in poets who conduct workshops and readings of their works. Joel Oppenheimer, who
visited Davidson in January, was one of the committee’s projects. During his stay, Oppenheimer held informal sessions in the Conversation
Pit and gave readings of his own poetry. He also welcomed student poets who wanted him to read and criticize
their own poetry.

The committee is also interested in having Davidson graduates return to read their poetry. One such student is Robert Hill
Long. Long, visiting from his home in Wilmington, N.C., talked to Davidson students in March about his experiences as a
poet and how Davidson had influenced him. He also read some of his own poetry. Student readings are held occasionally
and are open to all students. The next reading is tentatively set for May 2.

The Davidsonian.

GODFREY SPERLING, Washington correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor, visits Davidson as a Woodrow Wilson speaker. (Laura Moses)

Lecturer Sperling addresses wide range of issues

(Continued from page 1)

the University of Illinois’ paper. He joined the staff of The Christian Science Monitor in 1946 and is presently Chief
of the Washington News Bureau. His travels have involved not only a great part of the United States but also
trips to Tokyo, Seoul, and Vladivostok with President Ford in 1974. The following year he went to the NATO meeting
in Brussels and to Peking.

Sperling's association with top political figures is very impressive to the average citizen. His most recent article concerns President Carter
and bureaucracy. In a talk to Dr. Retzer’s Urban Politics class, he spoke of a recent interview with the President.
Sperling feels that the conclusion of national polls that there is a “growing question mark about Jimmy Carter” is due
to the President's “overpromising” during his campaign. He also sees the difficulty Carter is having in putting urban reforms through
Congress as caused by the “new liberals” who are no longer of the belief that “more is better.” One of
Carter’s campaign promises was the reduction of White House staff. “Budge” has found that people who have supposedly been “cut
back” have actually merely been transferred to other agencies within the Federal government.

PIZZA + LASAGNE + RAVIOLI
STEAK DISHES
CHOICE WINGS & BEERS
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA

The President’s constant shifting of his positionOn the neutron bomb, energy, the Mideast, and inflation is another point that influences
public attitude to be somewhat skeptical. Taking all into account, however, Sperling feels Carter has done a "fairly good job"
and will be a President who is "either awfully good or awfully bad." Through his experiences, Sperling feels that he
has "gotten to know the political animal in my day." He describes this type of individual who "runs on public
adulation, and problems and trying to solve them," as someone who also has the tendency to worry less than an
average individual. On a more personal basis, "Budge" Willis talks (Continued from page 7) for both producer and consumer, depending
on market fluctuations.

When questioned about the increased allocation of SDRs to the poor nations of the world, Mr. Willis said that allocation
depends on initial monetary contributions by member nations. Everyone is wary of international currency due to the inflationary problems it
poses. The Davidsonian asked Willis about the United States’ balance of trade, particularly with respect to imports like Japanese automobiles
and electronics. He said that America does not want to use restrictive measures to control imports. However, he noted that
the United States needs to strengthen its export position. "We need to keep down unfair competition, and the price system
will help out some," he said. "We will continue to import a lot because of oil," Willis noted. George Willis
will be on campus through Friday for discussions and lectures. Any questions should be addressed to Dr. Charles Ratliff.

Sperling has found Jimmy Carter to be defensive yet self-confident. He appeared "terribly preoccupied" and had many more "worry lines"
than Sperling had noticed in his last interview. Carter was described as "shy, sober, detached, and impersonal." Even though the
President comes across as very personal in public, Sperling accounted this to the media, and said that the "flashy smile"
doesn’t occur as much as people believe. "The public image is often very different from the private," and "Budge" feels
that television is a major factor in helping or hurting the President. Although President Ford often appeared to the public
to be a fairly dull person, Sperling said that he is actually a very personal and comfortable man. One story
related concerns the first time Carter had come to the Breakfast Club and Sperling noticed "the gleam in his eye."
He told his wife that "if Jimmy Carter ever gets that nomination he’ll be gangbusters on TV."

Another interesting event that recently caused quite a "stir" was Sperling’s article about Ted Kennedy. According to Kennedy’s close friends,
he was "thinking seriously" about running for President in the 1980 election and felt that Carter "might be vulnerable." Kennedy
denied the story but Sperling is not exactly sure just what was denied because by the end of the day
his own story "sharpened in recasting" by the media.

One of Sperling’s most recent surprises was a phone call Monday night at the Guest House telling him that Richard
Stroud, a staff correspondent for the Monitor, had won a Pulitzer Prize. Sperling stated that this 80-year-old man not only
goes to work every day but plays an active and most important role in the success of the Monitor.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE and Sales
The Shop Electronic Service
663-4513
334 S. Academy St.
Mooresville, N.C.
