| Committee to forfeit 9 media representative |

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

The Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) is requesting that the College President appoint an additional member to the Media Board rather than hold faculty elections for the post, as has been done in the past. The Constitution presently stipulates that two members be appointed by the College President, one be selected by the faculty, three be chosen by the SGA, and three more members from the “College Community” be chosen by these first six.

PAC Chairman Brown Patterson commented, “The method for choosing a Media Board Member is not mentioned in the Faculty By-Laws, and the committee consensus was that a better alternative might be to let President Spencer appoint this member. In this way, one person, rather than a large group, would be able to check on who is really interested in the position.”

Student Body President Bruce Brown disagreed, “I see no reason why they should relinquish this responsibility. I am more concerned with the role of the Board than its composition. Until it is given some substantial powers, the composition doesn’t matter.”

In a related matter, three students recently selected to serve on the 1978-79 Student Media Board voiced concern this week over the ambiguous role of the Board. Spencer, when asked Tuesday about the jurisdiction of the Media Board regarding WDAV, replied, “There does seem to be an ambiguity on this point.”

Juniors Ann Garner and John Willingham were elected by the SGA in regular session on September 26. The Publications Board elected senior Harry Greyard to the post last Monday. Garner commented, “It needs to be more structured and have a defined purpose. On the WDAV issue, we need to determine whether or not it is a student organization or an operation owned and operated by the Trustees. What is a key step in making the 1987 fund-raising program a success, according to Melton.”

Bernard gets chair

By MARK BARRETT

Bernard was reportedly ebullient last week after being told he was going to get Davidson’s newest endowed faculty chair. But there is no way to tell how he felt when he found out this doesn’t mean he’s going to get a raise. He refused to talk about that in an interview Wednesday.

But Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann said the half-million-dollar Vail Professorship “is really an honorary thing” for the man who receives it. Instead of using interest from the fund to give Bernard more money, the college is actually taking away part of his salary and is then going to replace it with the interest. Zimmermann put it succinctly when he said, “At Davidson, getting an endowed chair does not mean more money.”

Dr. Bernard has taught at Davidson since 1955. The anonymous couple who established the $600,000 endowed professorship named it in (see Bernard, page 3).

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 20036.

EDITORS OF ‘Hobart’s Park,’ the forthcoming campus magazine, Lyman Collins, Amanda Hall, and Greg Hankins, review submitted copy. See story, page 2.

By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

An official in the Development Office denied yesterday that he was trying to hoodwink Davidson's Trustees when he set up one-to-one encounters for them with a few students and professors last Friday. But Special Resources Director Julius Melton admitted the group of students asked to participate was not exactly diverse—every one of them was either a current or recently retired hall counselor.

Melton explained that the purpose of the interviews was not primarily to foster open communication between students and trustees, but to support a key step in making the 1987 fund-raising program a success, according to Melton. But he forcefully denied that the hall counselors were picked because administration officials thought they wouldbe the group most likely to give the trustees a good impression of what Davidson students are like. Melton said the choice of hall counselors to represent the students was "apolitical" and strictly "a matter of convenience." Nevertheless, in order to be accepted, one hall counselor said he and his co-counselors must profess a strong belief in what Melton said was one of the main topics in the interviews: Davidson's "sense of community and honor." As one current hall counselor put it, it is understood that you won't make it if you tell them "I hate the honor code" or "I think it’s unimportant."

According to Melton, this was only a coincidence. "We weren't out looking for people that would give a Pollyanna approach," he said. He did say, however, that the only other student group under consideration was the Admission Office’s tour guides. Asked why only these two groups were considered for the interview, Melton said they are both used to meeting people and interpreting the College to visitors. He denied that there were any other factors involved in the decision. But he had earlier said of the guides, "I don’t want to cast aspersions on that group of people, but visitors have picked up negative impressions from them." Asked why the guides were rejected, Melton became visibly uncomfortable, then denied that they were ever consciously rejected. He would only say that the entire process of arranging a trustee meeting is very "complicated" and that over a period of weeks the hall counselors came to be regarded as the group which would be the best representatives.

Asked why other students with potentially less positive views of the College were not considered, Melton said, "Perhaps a lottery system would have been better." But he said there was no reason for the Development Office to "fill a quota" of "losers" who might cause a trustee to say "Gee, if they’re all like the one I met they'll never get a nickel out of me."

In a separate interview, Willingham agreed on the need for clarity, "We are supposed to be convincing each trustee that he should personally give money to Davidson and actively encourage others to do the same. Getting strong trustee support is crucial."

Salary disparities: Similar jobs down on the court rewarded differently
By GEOFF SPENCER
Staff Writer

At $310 a term, SAE treasurer Steven Hull ($200 per term), ATO treasurer Woody Woodall ($200), PAX treasurer Mark Shelley ($291), Rusk House manager Margaret Herman ($280), and KA treasurer Dave Piper ($240). Fannie and Mabel’s Sarah Tatum is easily the highest-paid eating house president, at $160 per term. Only three other eating houses pay their president. Francis Taylor, Chancellor of the Student Government Association, receives $250 per term for her services as secretary and treasurer. Many eating houses pay their student staff by reducing or eliminating their membership fees. Both The Davidsonian editor and business manager get $125 a term. $85 is budgeted to the Advertising and Circulation Departments each term, to be split up as the department managers deem best. Other than the SGA chancellor and the staff of The Davidsonian, no other students receive salaries from non-eating house student organizations, though some students are paid hourly wages for services rendered, and others hold jobs as a part of a work-study scholarship.