_ October 27, 1978, The Davidsonian

Newman, Redford team up for surprise ‘Sting’

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

O. Henry, one of the progenitors of the American short story, has been dethroned as the king of the surprise
ending. Robert Redford and Paul Newman team up in The Sting for what is perhaps the most exciting finish ever
in motion picture history. The ending is only a portion of this superb film, which won the Oscar for best
picture. All but the most perceptive must see it twice to figure out what really happens, for the suspense and
action are non-stop.

Redford portrays a small-time con artist in the big city who leaves the flim-flam racket to avenge the violent death
of his dearest friend. His quest leads him to Paul Newman, who operates a carousel by day and a brothel
by night. Once the best con artist in the business, Newman has lost his ambition and turned to alcohol for
comfort. When Redford reveals his grudge against Robert Shaw, a multi-millionaire whose role in organized crime dwarfs that of Capone,
Newman devises a fail-safe plan to swindle the crook of all his wealth undetected.

Newman must make contact with Shaw and win his confidence, which he does in the best acting of the picture.
Shaw schedules a high-stakes poker game aboard a commuter train, and Newman plots to enter the game. He lacks the
necessary capital, so Redford lifts Shaw’s wallet and gives Newman the cash. To appear drunk, Newman enters the game with
gin spilled all over him and a gin bottle filled with water. Draining the bottle of water, Newman appears continuously
drunker, resorting to such un-

Open Barn this weekend - Horses ride on

By BELLE ERDMAN
Staff Writer

This Saturday of Parents Weekend everyone is invited to an “Open Barn” sponsored by the Davidson College Riding Program. Maybe
you didn’t know that Davidson now has a riding program; perhaps you wondered where people disappear to from campus in
black hats and boots. Maybe you thought your insatiable love of horses could not be met around here. Possibly you
just need a place to escape and enjoy these beautiful days.

The truth is that the college now has access to riding facilities. Thanks to Sterling Martin, it all began last
winter and now, with the help and support of many “horse lovers,” the Davidson College Riding Program is quite firmly
established. Kathleen Case offers additional guidance and leadership to the student board. The facilities at present include twelve horses, a
barn, a riding ring, large pasture areas, and extensive trails through woods and fields.

The program itself is offered through the department of physical education, and there are a wide variety of opportunities. Classes
are offered each term for beginners through advanced levels. It doesn’t matter if you have never ridden a horse or
if you are already advanced in dressage. The program can accommodate you. The lessons are open to students and members
of the community. A fee is paid for the 6-week course which entitles the rider to eight lessons and eight
optional practice rides.

The instructors are mostly students. Kathy Woodward, Katherine Whitney, Donna Ferren, Virginia Dummit, Belle Erdman, and Rosie Whitesides are student
teachers, and Kathleen Case also helps out. They help students learn enough to pass a proficiency for P.E. credit.or continue
further. Though there was some confusion with the Registrar's office concerning course offerings for winter term, riding WILL be offered.
Anyone interested is encouraged to pick up during Add-Drop.

Another option is an Instructor’s Class: This is taught by Kathleen Case for students who want to learn the techniques
of teaching. In exchange for this, each student in the class has the responsibility of cleaning the gentlemanly conduct as
blowing his nose on his tie. Nonetheless, he continues to win, and all the players leave the game except Shaw,
who is determined to recoup his losses. Shaw stacks the deck with threes and turns up four of them in
the final hand. The coup de grace occurs when Newman produces four queens and takes the pot. He, too, stacked
the deck. Throughout the film, Redford pretends to hate Newman, and he convinces Shaw that he can help out by
continuously winning at Newman’s illegal off-track betting establishment. Newman, of course, allows Shaw to win until Shaw places an unusually
high bet and must lose. The manner in which Shaw loses his fortune is the surprise ending, which is really
a double surprise. The action is so rapid that it must be tempered. Composer/pianist Marvin Hamlisch accomplishes this effect with
his own ragtime compositions in combination with the major works of Scott Joplin. This relaxing music won top honors as
best score of the year for a motion picture. The Sting will be shown Friday night in Love Auditorium at
8:00 and 10:30.

Students come out to the barn for various reasons. Some are not even interested in riding. Some people are just
willing to do some physical work as opposed to the usual repetitious academic schedule. Help in cleaning horses, tack, or
the overall facilities is always appreciated. The horses are even used sometimes as sources for observation of animal behavior. There
is also available stall space for privately owned horses. If you are interested in bringing your own horse to board
at school, contact one of the instructors mentioned above. If all this has set your interest loose, come out to
the Open Barn this Saturday (October 28) from 2 to 4 pm. There will be various riding demonstrations, a dressage
exhibition, refreshments, and plenty of people to answer questions. To get to the barn, follow the directions until you cross
over highway 73; continue uphill and make a left at the first road (McCord Road); continue over the railroad tracks
about 3/4 mile further. The barn will be on your left.

COLLEGE POETRY REVIEW
The NATIONAL POETRY PRESS

The closing date for the submission of manuscripts by College Students is April 1. ANY STUDENT attending either junior or
senior college is eligible to submit his verse. There is no limitation as to form or theme. Shorter works are
preferred because of space limitations. Each poem must be TYPED or PRINTED on a separate sheet, and must bear the
NAME and HOME ADDRESS of the student, and the COLLEGE ADDRESS as well. MANUSCRIPTS should be sent to the OFFICE
OF THE PRESS.

NATIONAL POETRY PRESS
Box 216
OURAY, CO. 81301

INTERNATIONAL CAREER?
A representative will be on the campus WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1978 to discuss qualifications for advanced study at AMERICAN GRADUATE
SCHOOL and job opportunities in the field of INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT. Interviews may be scheduled at the Office for Experiential Programs
& Life/Work Planning.

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Thunderbird Campus
Glendale, Arizona 85306

INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON
(704) 892-8054
