~The Davidsonian December 1, 1978

Denver, Brian Jackson looks like anyone but an aspirant to a posh dental practice. Dark-blonde hair halfway down his back, faded jeans in need of repair, Brian spends much of his time on campus petitioning for causes ranging from nuclear disarmament to solar power. But in his pocket is an acceptance letter to medical school, and he’s confident about getting a place, if not there, at any of several other medical schools. Of course, before he interviews, the long hair and beard will have to go, and he fully expects to give up his causes for the four-year grind of med school. 

"It will all be worth it, though," says Brian. “I’m in it for the money,” he baldly admits. “And when I’m out, you better believe I’m looking to practice where I can make the most money.” Then when enough cash is in the bank, Brian says he'll finally “be able to do what I want with my life.”

It wouldn’t be fair to say Brian is a typical med student. Yet it’s hard to argue that values similar to Brian’s are not typical of the medical system, and indicative of many medical school graduates. Every day, consumers complain more stridently about the exorbitant cost of medical care, the scarcity of doctors in rural areas and low-income neighborhoods, and even about doctors’ “lack of concern” toward the patient. Thus far, the medical profession as a whole hasn’t actively responded to the outcry, and so people are complaining to the government. The government, in turn, is going back to one of the few places it can enact change, and that is the medical schools.

HEW proposals

Last month, U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (HEW) secretary Joseph Califano handed a long list of proposed reforms to the American Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC), to which all 119 U.S. medical schools belong. Califano told AAMC that the nation’s health care system is characterized by an “oversupply” of doctors, too many of whom are specialists practicing in affluent areas. Med schools, said Califano, should help resolve these problems by cutting enrollments, influencing more students to study primary care, and urging them to practice in underserved areas. The government, under Califano’s proposals, would provide “incentives” like financial rewards for reduced enrollment, recruitment of minorities, or students from rural areas, and of students likely to enter general practice.

No one knows how these proposals will be included in a bill to be submitted to Congress next year. Nevertheless, controversy has already begun over the effect—and the effectiveness—of the proposed measures.

Most controversial is the issue of the “oversupply” of doctors. HEW is calling for restricting enrollment because, Califano estimates, “the country will have as many as 150,000 excess doctors by the 1990s.” And, according to Califano, the more doctors there are, the more services will be performed, without the prices coming down. Laws of supply and demand, in short, don’t work in medicine, Califano says. “Excess” doctors only contribute to the “extravagant” health care practices that have brought the country’s health bill to $180 billion this year. By the year 2000, he added, Americans can expect to pay $1 trillion—12 percent of the gross national product—for health care.

Yet some would dispute the accuracy of a doctor oversupply given the low doctor-patient ratio. In Mississippi, for example, there are only 82 doctors for every 100,000 people. A doctor surplus, some observers say, could be the only way to squeeze doctors out of the moneyed areas, and bring about lower health fees.

Whatever strategy the medical schools adopt, the task of getting more medical students into underserved areas is predicted to be difficult at best. In the past, government programs designed to attract medical graduates into these areas have not been very successful. A study by the U.S. Government Accounting Office found that during the years 1972 through 1977, the federal government offered $430 million in scholarships and forgiven loans to medical students who promised to practice in an underserved area. But 90 percent of the graduates still decided to practice in metro areas, where 75 percent of the population lives.

While the report casts doubt on the effectiveness of such programs, federal and state governments continue to offer more incentives. The National Health Service Corps Scholarship program recently received a 50 percent increase in its budget for this year. Nearly $600 million of the budget is for 5,000 scholarships that give med students tuition, fees, and $6750 for every year they promise to spend in an underserved area.

“The stakes may have to be higher, though, for students to take advantage of such aid. Brian could have attended the University of Colorado Medical Center and had 87 percent of his tuition and fees forgiven if he promised to practice for the same number of years in a rural or underserved area. But Brian decided he wouldn’t enter programs like that. “When I graduate, I’ll still have undergraduate and medical school loan payments hanging over my head,” he said. “I want to find a better paying practice so I can pay off those loans and my equipment as soon as possible.” Perhaps an even biggerHeadache for the government is the problem of directing medical students into primary care areas. The need for change is apparent. Since 1968, the number of general practitioners has steadily declined while the number of specialized doctors has climbed. Now, 72 percent of the doctors in the U.S. limit their practices to a specialty. The latest set of statistics indicates that the trend is likely to continue. Of the total medical student population of 1976-77, only 36 percent said they intended to go into primary, or general practice. Obviously, medical students would balk at overt attempts to regulate their field choices, so Califano’s proposed remedies run more on the line of “exposure” to the need for primary care. He suggests medical educators develop courses and clinical experiences in regional community health problems. Califano emphasized more contact with older people, with a goal of providing more geriatric care to the nation’s 24 million people over age 65. “Thousands of medical students are graduated without ever having entered a nursing home or taken courses in the special health problems of the elderly,” he complained. The reason doctors tend to stay away from geriatric medicine is probably best summed by Dr. Bill Bevan of Minneapolis: “Everyone likes a practice with lots of young people in it. You’re dealing with young, healthy, active people. Their problems are always acute, rarely chronic. Your patients don’t waste away or die on you. No matter what people say, doctors don’t like to watch disease, either.”

Educators’ influence

Yet, Califano maintains that educators at teaching hospitals can influence the type of practice medical graduates choose by apportioning hospital residencies according to the needs of patients rather than the preferences of doctors. The most potent impediment HEW faces, however, is the marked salary difference between the general practitioners and specialists. While the M.D. collects an average $53,000, anesthesiologists take home an average $87,000, while radiologists can command salaries of $124,000.

Moving a cemetery

HEW’s new health policy is thus guaranteed to encounter more than a few tangles, and Califano acknowledges this. To change medical school curricula as much as they need to be changed, says Califano, will be as difficult as “moving a cemetery.” Yet, the government still holds the trump card. About 85 percent of medical schools’ budgets come from federal and state funds. And Congress apparently is ready to act on that tack. “Congress has always predicated support of medical education on the belief that medical schools were national resources prepared to meet national needs,” said Congressman Paul Rogers (D-FL). “At no time has support of medical education been viewed by Congress as entitlement, but instead has always been tied to specific requirements designed to respond to national problems.”

DC students discuss medical school plans and ambitions

By SHERI GRAVETT Assistant Editorial Editor

Brian Wilson's story is not typical of those of several Davidson students who have been accepted into medical schools for next fall. According to Woody Woodall '79, who has been accepted at Vanderbilt and Duke, it is “make a lot of money whether one wants to or not,” although he says this had no influence on his decision to be a doctor. Peggy Noel '79, who will attend UNC-CH medical school next fall, finds it “disturbing” that many people “feel that a good part of medicine is money.” She even feels that one should be paid less for a job which he finds challenging and enjoyable. For Mary Chester Morgan '79, who has been accepted at UNC-CH, the “joy of medicine is interacting with the patients.” Morgan would practice primary care in a rural area. She plans to return to her native county where 10,000 patients are served presently by only one doctor. “I am disheartened that the distribution of physicians does not meet the needs of the overall population,” says Morgan. “If the number one priority is that of service, distribution (of physicians) would not be a problem.” Bill Cochran '79, accepted at Vanderbilt and the Medical College of Georgia, and Woodall plan to practice in rural areas. They are both interested in the National Health Service Corps. The Corps will help finance a student’s medical education later in return for service in a prison, rural area, inner city, or Indian reservation. Woodall insists that “there is not an over-supply of specialists but an under-supply of primary care.” He went on to state, however, that he could see the problem in encouraging doctors to practice in rural areas. He pointed out that “most doctors attended medical school in an urban area offering good facilities plus cultural and educational opportunities. Most incentives to stay are in the urban area,” notes Woodall, “so you have to offer counter-incentives.” Noel offers an interesting interpretation of the “over-abundance” of specialists. She suggests that most medical school students come from competitive backgrounds where they were used to being “on top” of everything. These students tend to specialize rather than become general practitioners. Therefore, she feels that psychological reasons often play a large part in the type of service.