Vol. LXVII, No. NINETEEN
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
March 17, 1978

Brown, Langley Vie for SGA President
By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

This Tuesday students will elect either Bruce Brown or Lynn Langley as the next President of the SGA. Both candidates
emphasized the need for a more efficient Senate, especially concerning committee accountability. Langley pointed out problems with the Advisory Councils.
“They’re under the total control of the chairman,” she said. “We should make sure our committee members report back to
us.” Brown indicated that “the Councils are not as efficient as they should be. These are areas where the students
can have a say.”

SPRING TERM is aptly named, as evidenced by these hard-working sun-bathers trying to get a tan.
[Gregg Strader]

Vice-Presidential race pits Jackson, Peeples, and Stiefel
By MARGARET JACKSON
Asst. Assignments Editor

Sophomores John Jackson, Bill Peeples, and John Stiefel are the candidates for SGA Vice-President. Jackson emphasizes that the Vice-President should
become more active as President of the Residence Hall Council (RHC), cooperate more closely with the Senate, and provide students
a stronger voice in popular issues. He feels that presiding over the RHC is “one of the most important duties”
of the Vice-President. He would like to continue present work towards improvement of dorm lounges as well as explore the
possibility of adding a kitchen in Little dorm. Jackson also hopes to arrange an economical bulk plan for the purchase
of loft lumber from a local lumber company.

In reference to the Senate, he seeks to strengthen its role as an “amplifier for the opinions of the student
body.” For example, he would like to publish the Senate newsletter on a bi-monthly basis. Jackson believes that the Senate
can clarify student opinion and that it is “the most useful tool in shaping the place we go to school.”
For the Senate to accomplish its goals, Jackson points out the need for greater student involvement. Jackson cites faculty evaluation,
admissions, and meetings with the Board of Trustees as areas in which students should become involved. He thinks that students
should serve in advisory positions, particularly on the Admissions Committee. Jackson strongly believes that students need to be aware of
any changes in policy involving those and related areas. Jackson has worked on the Executive and Athletic Committees of the
SGA, which he terms an “invaluable” experience.

[see VP, page 2]

Registration foul-up
By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

This term 420 students had only two courses at the beginning of the term. Registrar Burts commented, “It is unusual
to have as large a number as 420.” He added, however, “It’s only a difference in degree, not in kind.”
There are several reasons for the problem. One partial cause is errors by students in registration. Burts asserted, “In many
cases where people didn’t get a third course, it can be traced to errors and deficiencies.” The computer rejects requests
that contain an error. According to Burts, common errors included leaving off the section number or requesting sections that did
not exist and failing to get the necessary permissions. “We have a system that operates on precision and detail,” explained
Burts.

Another technical problem with registration was the failure of students to make full use of the options on the registration
form. Burts emphasized that students should fill out all the spaces on the registration form to ensure they get three
courses. A third reason was the popularity of some courses. Burts said, “145 people requested a course that has a
ceiling of 30.” The most popular courses were Math 23, Drama 21, Psych 101, Eco 101, History 101 and 102,
Religion 163 and 164.161. tremendous input.” Both candidates will aim to get student representation on the Board of Trustees. Brown
will propose one student representative to the Board while Langley will put one student as well as one faculty member
on each committee of the Trustees. The issue is significant, remarked Langley, because “the Trustees influence the atmosphere we have
to live under.” Brown, in speaking of his qualifications to serve as SGA President, emphasized the importance of “real experience.”
In addition to being Vice-President of the SGA, Brown has served as a senator for two years, as the chairman
of various committees, and as a member of the Council on Campus and Religious Life. “After all the time I’ve
put into the Senate, I'd like to think that I know how it works,” said Brown. “Through my experience, I
know how to approach the faculty and have worked extensively with the Administration. It’s very important to know how the
Senate functions best,” he explained.

“Through my work, I had to be efficient. The nature of the office is organization because of the bulk of
work and the necessity of clearly seeing problems and how to step-by-step solve them,” he said. Brown pointed out the
importance of the President maintaining a “good and constant energy level.” He explained, “In fifteen months as Vice-President, my motivation
would have died if it were going to. It’s important that I be energetic and motivated throughout the term and
I will be.”

Brown highlighted many aspects of Senate work which he plans to act upon. Brown would like to see an expansion
in the number of courses offered at Davidson. “The need is very apparent when over 400 people don't get three
courses. This is an immediate and real need for the academic community,” he said. Brown also seeks to pursue a
change to a merit-based admissions policy. He explained, “The benefit of this system is obvious: a more qualified freshman class
and the elimination of the social and psychological problems that an unbalanced ratio brings.” Brown sees a need for Davidson
to increase the endowed scholarship in accordance with the rise in tuition. He finds it “an important responsibility of the
college that less than upper middle-class students should be [see PRESIDENT, page 2].”

“Hundreds of people asked for these courses,” claimed Burts. Burts cited another cause of the problem, “We’re offering courses in
the first four periods of the day that we're not utilizing the full day. There has been a reluctance by
professors to use afternoon periods.” He said this was because of possible conflicts with labs. “Labs have had control of
the situation. Lab people play the trump card.”

Several other factors contributed to the course shortage. Fewer courses are offered this term because several professors are absent. Professor
of Classics George Labban, Professor of Art History Larry Ligo, and Professor of Spanish Lois Kemp each took ten students
abroad with them, but they usually teach many more. Because of heart trouble, Professor of Psychology and Education H. Ostwalt
and Professor of Psychology Kaylor are both on leave of absence. Other professors have substituted fall and winter terms for
Davidson Professor of Religion Gordon Michalson who has not yet been replaced, but no one is filling in for him
this term. The only professor coming back from a leave of absence is Professor of Math Benjamin Klein. Another factor
is that the student/faculty ratio has risen from 11 to 1 to 13 to 1, which is, according to College
President Samuel R. Spencer Jr., a result of coeducation and the subsequent [see BURTS, page 2].
