Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter II, Business Manager
Volume LXVIII, Number Ten
December 1, 1978

Good news

This week there is good news. Long drop-add lines have stirred anew the student grumblings over Davidson’s course registration system.
This term, however, someone is listening. The committee established this week by Vice President Zimmermann to study course registration may
finally plumb the muddy depths of this complex problem. Setting up a committee is no guarantee that all will soon
be well, but it is certainly astute of Zimmermann to recognize that.

Not so very long ago we were told that the Davidson faculty would never approve a plan for a Tenure
Committee. “Davidson professors harbor a historical reluctance to judge their peers,” advised the skeptics. Yet through careful compromise and consensus-building,
the Professional Affairs Committee and Vice President Zimmermann seem to have fashioned a proposal for a tenure committee that stands
a fair chance of preliminary faculty approval next week. If the Tenure Committee is approved, the passage of the Code
of Evaluation will likely soon follow. And then it may be possible for Davidson to cease viewing the administration as
“the boss” and the faculty as “the employees” and, instead, accept both juniors and faculty as partners in the educational
mission. We encourage the faculty to turn a favorable ear to the proposed Tenure Committee and set Davidson on this
worthy course.

—Philip

The Memo War

You may not know it, but there’s a Memo War going on. From the gym this week there surfaced, printed
on bright yellow paper, a “NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS, FACULTY AND STAFF” concerning ticket pickup policy for Davidson’s basketball games
in Charlotte this season. After reading through an innocuous first paragraph, we come to a “SPECIAL NOTICE.” That special notice
tells us that “each student must pick up his or her ticket individually upon presentation of an ID card at
the Athletic Office. A student may not pick up another student's complimentary ticket, even with the latter's ID card.”

What does that mean to you, the Davidson basketball fan? It means that this bright yellow memo cuts out the
tradition of collecting your and a dozen of your friends’ IDs, walking down to the gym at your convenience, and
picking up a whole batch of tickets so you and your friends can sit together at the game. In the
past, fraternities have used this “one picks up for all” plan to gather entire groups.

Spencer vowed that he knew nothing of The Memo, that he was party to no plot which denied students their
inalienable ticket rights. He vowed to look into the matter. And that he did. The very next morning Spencer issued
a Counter-Memo. “NOTICE TO ALL DAVIDSON STUDENTS: Provisions have been made for Davidson students who will be in the area
over the holidays to attend the Davidson-Duke basketball game on January 2. Complimentary tickets will be available by registering, upon
presentation of an ID card, at the Athletic Ticket Office on December 14 only. Students who register for these tickets
in the above manner may pick them up at the Davidson ticket window at the Coliseum the night of the
game, again upon presentation of an ID card.”

Touche. Spencer's Counter-Memo outranks the gym’s Memo and the matter is settled. Students can get free tickets for the Duke
game. Dandy. But wait. Can anything be done about the present “one ID, one ticket” pickup policy? The Athletic Ticket
office admitted that to get around the law of the gym Memo, the ticket office has come up with this
new system. It’s supposed to solve all the problems. We won't even bother to explain it. Remember the good old
days when you got Charlotte tickets when and where you wanted them, or sent your friends down to pick them
up? Simple. Effective. Why change something that works so well? Let’s call a halt to the Memo War, and cut
out all these half-baked new proposals.

Opinion

Finding alternatives
By PAM CAMERRA
Executive Editor

Tired of being at Davidson? Unmotivated and uninspired? Filling out transfer applications? The initial thrill of being a freshman is
over and sophomores and juniors still have a long way to go before they...can graduate. The prospect of coming back
to two and a half months of rain, old classes, term papers, and reviews, after three weeks of vacation, appears
bleak. Winter’s dampness and cold only add to students’ feelings of restlessness and thoughts of leaving here. There were many
times in the past two and a half years when I thought I could not stand being at Davidson one
moment longer. I felt as though I had stopped growing. Academically I had done well, but what I was people
and having nothing to talk about except the obvious or trivial. I was also dissatisfied with the College community itself.
Were students and faculty at other colleges and universities such a conservative, apathetic lot? I had tried to effect change
by working with The Davidsonian. But it was like banging one’s head against a brick wall. I continued to watch
people such as Dr. Linden and Dr. Devon treated unjustly. I watched the faculty and administration quietly accept what was
going on. Moreover, little effort was being made to recruit a more diverse student body or faculty or to fight
the discriminatory and conservative attitudes toward women and blacks. Unwilling to accept the place and the people, I began to
explore the possibilities of going somewhere else. For many, the only answer is to transfer. However, in some respects, that
is the easy way out. It means giving up the fight. It assumes that there are no other alternatives available.
Furthermore, it seems that in colleges all over the country students are frustrated by administrators, by apathy, by conservatism. Reading
over the Williams Record and Wesleyan Argus, I found that these schools have very similar problems. The only other viable
option that I looked into was Davidson’s junior year abroad programs. However, I discovered there were many other opportunities. It
is not necessary to be restricted to Davidson’s programs (though one might avoid some red tape by doing so). It
may not be beneficial to participate in a program with people you already know. Nor is it always necessary to
go away for the whole year. There are semester and term programs in places all over the world, from New
York to Paris, from Brazil to Sri Lanka. It is also possible to stay at Davidson and take advantage of
internships and other experiential programs to round out an education. It does take some time to research the options available.
Questions such as ‘what do I want from my education?’ and ‘can I fulfill my goals by staying at Davidson?’
need to be considered. Wait too long and the options close by themselves. Many of the programs I discovered last
year, I uncovered too late to apply for. The time, therefore, to start thinking about what to do is now.
To be confronted with a new situation is a challenge... it is more comfortable to sit back and put up
with the familiar. However, it is often necessary to get away from the place and people you know best in
order to appreciate them more. The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must
be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box
218, Davidson, N.C., 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night
will ordinarily be printed in that week's issue.

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

News Editors
CHARLES ERWIN
DENNIS MEREDITH

Features Editors
KENNETH BARRY
SACHTJEN

Sports Editor
Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH
GREGG STRADER

Photography Editor
BILL COWARD
DAVE ISENHOWER

Graphics Editor
AMANDA HALL

Copy Editor
ALAN LONG

Production Manager
VERA DORR

Department assistants:
News—Don Caldwell, Carole Willingham
Editorial Page—Sheri Gravett
Photography—Donya Circulation—Richy Watson

Davidson, N.C. 28096; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription

The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone:
892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription.
