The Davidsonian
December 1, 1978

Roberts unsure how many students will return: “We will not be hiring staff members to go back to work for the station,” has been placed in charge of programming and has been given the title Assistant Music Director. Asked why she chose to return to the station, Wilson said, “I’m not knocking those who've decided not to go back, but my own personal opinion is that if you back out you’re not in it. I want to be a part of it,” she added.

Wilson said that by going back to work she hopes to gain some sort of student foothold in the new station; she said she wants students to have “input.” She and junior Robert Payne, who has been given the title “Chief Announcer,” have eaten lunch with all the director of radio candidates, according to Wilson, and have been allowed to make recommendations to Roberts as to whether or not they think they should be hired. Some of the senior managers of the defunct WDAV student staff have criticized Payne and Wilson for going back to work so soon after the October 16 trustee decision giving control of the station to College President Samuel Spencer and his administration.

Former Director of Religious Tom Bessellieu explained, “There is an uneasiness there with Rob and Frances, but it’s not an intended bitterness or dislike.” Then, after a long pause, he added, “I commend her for it, I really do.” Asked why he himself would not return to the station, Bessellieu said, “Well I have to confess to a certain amount of pride and to a sense of betrayal.”

Auditions for students interested in working at the station were held Wednesday afternoon and only about 13 of WDAV's former 60-member staff showed up. Roberts predicted that she would hire some of those who auditioned, although she could not say how many. Wilson said she thinks more students will apply for jobs with the station after Christmas and during the Spring term as the initial hard feelings about the trustees’ decision erode. When one of the auditioners was asked why he was thinking about working for the new station, he said it is purely a matter of needing experience and wanting money, and added he is still bitter about what the trustees decided to do with WDAV.

It may soon be possible for students who refuse to work for the station to play music of their own choosing late at night and be paid by the administration, according to Roberts, as long as the program meets the station’s standards.

South Asian Studies program bolstered by India semester

Applicants will be required to have completed at least two years of college work and possess at least a 2.75 GPA. Admissions will be competitive, but Davidson and UNCC students will be given first preference; students in other SASASAAS schools, second preference; then students from other institutions in the Southeast will be considered. On Tuesday, Kaylor said, “Cost to the Davidson student will depend on the success of the program.”of an application now being made to the U.S. Department of Education for financial assistance for the project, and a possible application, if necessary, to the Rockefeller Foundation. If funds are granted, Davidson participants would probably have to pay only regular Davidson tuition, but if not, they would likely have to pay an additional sum in the area of seven to eight hundred dollars. These fees will cover all expenses except incidentals and individual travel. Staff members of the program will largely consist of Davidson and UNCC faculty, particularly during the orientation period, but other SASA-SAAS schools may also be asked to fill some of the in-India positions. One faculty coordinator and two student coordinators of Madras University, the U.S. Educational Foundation in India.

"The hours from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. are tentatively reserved for students to program jazz and contemporary music," she said. But it all depends on student interest, she added, because as museums, orchestras, archaeological groups, etc.

As outlined in a rough draft of the application to the U.S. Department of Education for financial assistance, the 1979 program will begin August 12 and end December 20, when students return to the U.S. A student admitted to the program for 1979 would begin assigned readings in the spring of that year. He would be tested on the readings upon arrival at UNCC for orientation, and would have to pass these tests prior to departure for India. In addition to the examinations, the orientation at UNCC will consist of the study of Indian thought, customs, and cultural heritage and introduction to the Tamil language (Tamil is the vernacular of southern India, although English is widely spoken). Also, students would present brief research papers prepared prior to the orientation period.

Upon arriving in India, students will spend a brief orientation period in Delhi, then begin ten weeks of study at Madras University. Studies there will include a lecture course covering Indian geography, history, literature, political structure, economic development, sociology, anthropology, art, architecture, religion, and philosophy. The course will be taught, in English, by professors of Madras University. The program will consist of a Tamil language course, a student research project, and opportunities to explore various cultural and political aspects of the Madras area.

"Best food east of Taker" to broadcast con. Until she does find students are interested, Rx said the station will sign 10 p.m. each evening.

(Communications Office) Madras experience, students will participate in a fieldwork study of Indian history and culture, involving travel to major sites of Indian history, art, and culture. Students will be expected to complete another research project during this time. The final two weeks will be utilized for individual travel and study in India, according to students' needs and interests.

Upon satisfactory completion of the program, Davidson students will be given four ungraded course credits. One of these courses, to be entitled "South Asian Studies 110. India: Past and Present," will count towards the social science area requirement. The three other course credits will count as electives only.

College President Samuel Spencer praised the Semester in India program saying, "It will provide students interested in South Asian Studies an excellent opportunity to go deeper in this field." Kaylor expressed pleasure over the passage of the program, and remarked, "A good education should include some exposure to a culture other than one’s own. Students particularly need exposure to a third culture like India."