January 27, 1978

The Davidsonian

Brings relief, not joy

Book hurt by length: characters interact well

By BILL BARNES
Staff Writer

Daniel Martin, by John Fowles
Little, Brown, and Company. 629 pp.

The story of a middle-aged playwright-cum-screenwriter and how he regained his past. And future. John Fowles took eight years to
stretch this subject into a very fine, very intelligent novel that plays with character, America, England, various brands of Marxism,
and unusual form in order to leave Daniel Martin, if not happy, then feeling a little better than useless.

Daniel begins feeling a little worse than useless. While working on a film in California, living with a British actress,
Daniel is called to Oxford to visit and be reconciled with a onetime friend dying of cancer. Antony requests Daniel
to make some order out of the remains of his cold, quietly disastrous marriage. This throws Daniel against not only
Antony’s wife Jane, but against his own ex-wife, Jane’s sister, his past, and his expectations. Daniel’s L.A. mistress, his desertion
of the theatre for Hollywood, cry for their own reconciliations. Out of the whirl...

LANA SIMS strums on his guitar while Eddie Pollack plays the piano during the student talent showcase this past Tuesday.
The top three Davidson stars will be participating in the Charlotte Consortium Showcase coming up in mid-February. [David Litaker]

Baby, hit on this - Odetta raised the issue of a decade the other night. She put the Sixties on
trial. Her voice was the judge and her smile was the jury. She had the case wrapped up before she
ever went on stage and it is only natural that she won. But I dissent, I want to appeal. I
do not rest my motion on the quality of her music. Perhaps it was good or perhaps it was bad,
I just don’t know. I’ll admit that I am to music appreciation what John Connolly is to the Republican Party,
an old newcomer with one too many past associations for my critical opinion to have marketability. Certainly, I do not
rest my case on the personality of this accomplished...

...loud and act like fools is all right, with them that is the attraction. Their message is alienation and you
don’t even need to listen for it to come across. But Odetta is different. Many of her ideas were good,
even beautiful. She had something to say that was stagnated by trying to preserve a relic, the relic of the
way people tried to sing in the early sixties to bring attention to their message while they brought attention to
themselves.

Another Window

Daniel distills, if not love and happiness, then at least a shared sorrow, an acceptance of his “future past.” Fowles
handles the interplay between Daniel and the characters around him beautifully. Part of the novel is told via detached, objective
presentations; another third is autobiographical; and the rest is filled by the actress, Jenny. As a chorus, Jenny is tremendously
effective. She contributes, in installments, commentary on Daniel and their affair which complements the narrator and gives the lie to
many of Daniel’s own confessional sections. These two changes form paragraph to paragraph, occasionally from sentence to sentence—a technique that
confuses, but doesn’t seriously harm...the novel. Fowles has a way of blending fine, almost extreme, intelligence and vague incompetence in
his major characters. Daniel is no exception. He tends to lead himself into long, occasionally obscure meditations on society, himself,
his friends, his past, whatever touches him. A good deal of the novel is taken up by these digressions which
leave the book too long to be beautiful. Still, Fowles creates some memorable scenes: Daniel and Jane find a body
in river reeds near Oxford; a London bobby stops to give a tramp a cigarette past midnight; an old German
archeologist very quietly suggests an escape from Daniel's dilemmas. With these in mind, and considering the value of most of
Daniel’s meditations—which do include some fine satire on both England and America—what becomes important in this novel is not that
it spills over by a few pages, but that it portrays indecisions present in a man who has consciously divorced
himself from his past and future in an attempt to exist consistently in the present. Perhaps what Fowles attempts to
communicate is that a balance must be struck between the three times. Past, future, and present must all be weighed,
united. In accomplishing this for himself, Daniel, like many others, does not find love, any great ecstasy, but a meeting
long overdue which, like catching a late train, brings relief rather than joy.

By CHARLES ERWIN
He of Features Editor

woman Odetta. I have never talked with her, but what I saw I liked well enough. Instead, I ground my
appeal on what she demanded of herself, on what she felt she had to say and sing to a bunch
of strangers in the dark in order to be faithful to her past, in order to be faithful to the
sixties. For instance, this attack on nursery rhymes. In 1965, I wouldn’t complain if somebody told me that “Rock-a-bye Baby
in the Tree Tops” was an underground political song. Perhaps there was something fresh about it then. But in 1978,
it seems nothing more than silly. You’d as well say that “Old McDonald Had a Farm” is propaganda fathered by
the Dairy Industries since “on that farm he had a cow.” And this business of burning incense and getting loud.
She didn’t need it. For the Sex Pistols to get loud, it was part of their act. But for Odetta,
it seemed unnecessary. The spirit of the sixties didn’t die because people became too apathetic. It died because it failed,
because the world changed. The rise of mass individualism within a set time was nothing more than the rise of
a cult, of one more order in a world already plagued by too many orders. But perhaps I am wrong.
When Odetta left the stage for the last time and her brown stool was left empty in the glare of
the spotlight, a girl passed by and said, “She made me feel so good.” If a performer can do that,
who has the right to say her work is a relic?
