The Davidsonian

THE RHC wants to renovate the dorm lounges. But Bernard says let sleeping dogs lie.

Professor brings son to work
[Gregg Strader]

Case baby goes to college
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

Last fall, Assistant Professor of Biology Verna Case and her husband Marshal began considering alternatives for the day care of their new son, Jefferson Matthew. Instead of a babysitter, or a day care center, she, with the consent of Associate Professor Donald Kimmel, began bringing him to work this quarter.

“I wanted to bring him because it is important to have a lot of interaction between child and parent,” Case noted. “A home environment is better in the sense that it is more stable, but any child that has a lot of interaction in any situation is less fearful of others.”

Eight-month-old Jefferson spends most of his time in Case’s office, either sleeping or playing with toys. He does, however, accompany his mother occasionally to animal behavior class. The students seem to enjoy his visits, and “we use him as a model of early childhood development.”

Case expressed her thanks to her fellow professors and the school for allowing the “experiment.” “I appreciate the openness of the college. This would not be possible at many other schools or under other circumstances.”

Jefferson’s college experience will end next quarter when he gets too active for the office. She also pointed out that “he is a little leery of kids his own age,” and plans for him to spend next quarter with a babysitter and other children.

Senate allots $100 to Admissions Office
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

The SGA allocated $100 to aid the Office of Admissions in making phone calls to encourage prospective students to come to Davidson. The money to fund this project came from the Senate’s General Fund category.

This telephone calling program was set up by the SGA Senate because it was “looking for programs to help. This stemmed from an effort in the Senate to give some direction to its use of money,” said SGA President Thom Young.

The group of people called were chosen because of SAT scores and self-reported grades. Director of Admissions H. Edmund White said, “At this point, they appear to be good prospects.”

There were no specific number of people called, but the concentration was on male applicants because of the trustee policy on female enrollment. In stating reasons why female applicants were not called, White said that they had received approximately 460 female applications of which only 110 can be enrolled. He continued that 300 to 400 of these applications can be considered well qualified; about 100 applicants can be considered extremely well qualified.

White pointed out that it seemed pointless to call a female applicant and encourage her to apply when there is no more room. He said, “If we didn’t get another single application from a girl, we’d have an extremely strong freshman class.”

Sue Salute Sood G Sitorestinne! Gussue
STEAKS ow omer aishes
*HOICER WINGS & BEERS
the WORLD FAMOUS sen Rifehon
PIZZA > LASAGNE > RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINGE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
3715-1449 S18 W. MORBHBAD

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
892-1908

Little 3 RHC seeks funds
By CLAY MACAULAY
Staff Writer

Chairman of the Residence Hall Council (RHC) Bruce Brown announced this week that he isseeking additional funds for the improvement of all dorm lounges. “There’s obviously a need,” said Brown. “Dorm lounges are potentially useful.” Director of Student Housing Scotty Nicholls questioned whether additional funds were the answer. “We could spend a fortune on the lounges but people abuse them,” said Nicholls, referring to chair cushions and paintings that have disappeared from the lounges. “On top of that,” she added, “a TV set was stolen out of (Dormitory) over Thanksgiving.”

Nicholls said money was available for refurbishing the lounges but didn’t know exactly what the RHC wanted. “Remodeling” was Brown’s reply. “In general, new furniture, fixed TVs, and more recreational equipment.” Brown agreed with Scotty Nicholls on the problem of student negligence but pointed out that if the lounges were kept nice and clean (i.e., the trash cans emptied continuously) students in turn would attempt to keep it nice. He added that by impressing upon dorm lounges the need for student upkeep of the lounge, and emphasizing more responsibility on the house managers to keep a sharper eye out for the lounge vandals, this would also help alleviate the problem.

“The lounges are not big enough for social events,” stated the Dorm Social Committee Chairman, Mary Chester Morgan. “Even if they were, the furniture is falling apart.” Nicholls conceded that the lounges were small, but said nothing could be done until the student housing crunch is solved and rooms are vacated in each dorm. “Ideally,” said Nicholls, “there would be lounges on every floor of all dorms, especially Belk dorm where 321 students are housed.” She pointed out that there is a kitchen on the top floor of Belk, and that by student request, lockers have been installed there to accommodate students’ personal cooking items.

Both Brown, who has an appointment to talk with College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. about the matter next week, and Nicholls, expressed optimism in finding a solution to the problem. “If reform is the case, then everything possible will be done to remedy the lounge situation,” said Nicholls.

Simply mail the coupon below:

School Name
Summer 1978
The National Center for Paralegal Training

Become a lawyer's assistant and put your education to work. The National Center for Paralegal Training offers qualified college graduates the opportunity to enter the legal field as a lawyer's assistant. This intensive 12-week graduate program taught by attorneys in Atlanta may qualify you for an active and challenging role as an accepted member of the legal community. Specialize in Corporations, Litigation, or Real Estate and Probate. For a free catalog about the program, call (404) 266-1060 or...

Fall 1978

A representative from The National Center for Paralegal Training's Lawyer's Assistant Program will be on campus on Wednesday, Mar. 15 from 1:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. at the Placement Office to meet interested students. For more information contact the Placement Office or The National Center for Paralegal Training, 3376 Peachtree Road, NE, Suite 430, Atlanta, Georgia 30326, (404) 266-1060. The National Center admits students on the basis of individual merit and without regard to race, color, creed, sex, age, or national origin.

Phone
Zip
Spring 1979

Sandra Jennings, Director
The National Center for Paralegal Training
3376 Peachtree Road, NE, Suite 430
Atlanta, Georgia 30326
Tel (404) 266-1060