é ry

8

|

The Davidsonian

October 13, 1978

Coach Eddie rolls

By JIM RICHARDS
Staff Writer

As the leaves begin to turn and basketball season rapidly approaches, many on the Davidson College campus turn to new head coach Eddie Biedenbach. The former All-ACC guard and assistant coach of the N.C. State Wolfpack has not only brought life to a sagging Davidson program, but also a 1961 Rolls Royce.

February 1979 will mark the completion of Biedenbach’s second year as owner of the car. Previously the 1961 Silver Cloud Rolls was driven by a friend of Biedenbach’s from Greensboro, who had used the car strictly for travel in Europe.

Although the Silver Cloud was not his first choice of models (he preferred a grey model), Biedenbach bought the car because it appeared to be in excellent condition and was a great bargain.

Initially, his acquisition of the Rolls was solely intended to be an investment. However, Biedenbach quickly became attached to the car. For the moment, he has given up serious thoughts of selling the Silver Cloud; nonetheless, he will listen to offers from all prospective buyers.

Not only has Biedenbach enjoyed driving his Rolls, he has also enjoyed discussing it. He explained that many people ask questions about the car, and this serves an excellent social purpose in that it often creates conversation.

One may wonder if owning such a fine car has any major drawbacks. After talking to Biedenbach, there appear to be relatively few problems in its operation.

Although the nearest Rolls Royce dealership is in High Point, N.C., the coach says this really is not a problem because attendants are eager to work on the car. According to Biedenbach, many attendants are excited about working on the Rolls, and often refuse to charge him for their services.

A question that often confronts Biedenbach involves the effects of the Silver Cloud in recruiting. He feels the car is by no means a specific weapon in recruiting a player, although it can be an advantage.

In the words of Biedenbach, “All the little things add up in recruiting, and this is just one of the little things. You need more than a car to impress a recruit.”

It appeared obvious that Eddie Biedenbach really enjoys his 1961 Silver Cloud Rolls and the many advantages it creates for him. However, he handles the discussion of his car in a classy manner.

If you’re passing by Johnston Gym some day and see the Silver Cloud parked nearby, stop and take a look. If you have any questions, go by the coach's office. He would welcome your visit.

imported from Canada by Century Importers, Inc., New York, NY

Library challenges museum

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

One need not go to the Metropolitan Museum to see exhibits that make ancient Mesopotamia come alive.

Assistant Director of the Library Mary Beaty achieves the same effect in a new display in the E.H. Little Library.

Marvel at items from Ur of Chaldees, Jokha, Dremen, and other archeological sites now available on the main floor of the library, and thank former Davidson Professor William Porter for the exhibit. Porter, who taught geology and geography, bought this collection of ancient artifacts from Edgar Banks in 1934.

Gifts from other donors add to Banks’ collection, which currently includes cornerstones from Babylonian temples, small house gods, numerous cuneiform records of temple transactions, and other items dating back as far as 3000 B.C.

Most of the display items are temple records and are not rare or of high value. These records are quite common because each temple sacrifice for over two thousand years was recorded by an official scribe.

No two records are the same, either, as each scribe had a unique seal stamped or rolled into each clay tablet. The records are as clear today as when they were made, for the clay tablets, unlike manuscripts, are virtually indestructible.

Temple records comprise only a portion of the exhibit. Conical clay objects inscribed with prayers, known as prayer cones, were inserted into wet temple mortar for good luck.

Other tablets contain references to the deity Ishtar and the Gilgamesh epic.

The exhibit will soon return to the rear of a Chambers classroom under the care of the history department. Beaty solicits any ideas for library displays.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON
(704) 892-8054