November 3, 1978

KA’s falter: By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD | Staff Writers

Hello peons! We are glad to see that you have finally hopped on the Bad Bernard and Bonehead Bandwagon. Last week’s column was excellent and our ratings have skyrocketed. Several of our groupies have made requests for more gore and violence in our article, but we feel that there is a need for good family-oriented writing, so get out of here.

The 1978 Davidson Flickerball Championship game was played yesterday on Richardson Field (the one behind the library). This was the first year that an IMAC game has been played on the Silver Fox’s hunting grounds, but it was necessary because several conditions made it impossible to have the game on the conventional fields: Field One was worn out where the KA’s had spent hours of practice; on Field Two a search was being continued for a young PiKA athlete lost in the bushes eight weeks ago (later found in the library); and Field Three was too slick after Butch, Bilbo, and Rebel ate at Slater.

The championship game saw SAE matched against MacFleet, a team that barely lost to the E’s earlier in the double elimination tournament. The elimination tournament meant that just one loss could eliminate any chance for the title; to win, they had to beat the E’s twice in a row. The pressure on each team reached close to 3.6 torr and the tension was ninety-eight newtons as the young joules lined up for the singing of the national anthem.

At that moment tragedy struck, when an X-37 helicopter carrying a 6’11” basketball recruit suddenly landed on the field and crushed SAE center Rob Cordell, causing multiple cigarettes to protrude from his transverse abdominal axis. Dr. David Shi ran to the rescue, but the ‘copter blades grabbed him by his nappy afro and swung him face first into a seven-inch high toilet on Third Duke. John Ratliff lost his head in the commotion when he forgot to duck and was caught full force by the razor-sharp blades. (Ratliff’s beard will be put on display in the Davidsoniana Room on Fridays from 2-5 pm.) No other casualties were reported.

Cagers delight fans — By SKIP BARKLEY | Staff Writer

Davidson basketball fans were treated to a pre-season look at the Wildcat team which held its Red-White inter-squad scrimmage at Park Center in Charlotte last Saturday. John Gerdy led the winning White team with 32 points as they defeated the Red team 89-80. Senior Pat Hickert and Rich DiBenedetto added 19 and 17 points respectively for the winners. High-scorer on the White squad was 6’7” Todd Haynes who played aggressive basketball around the basket and picked up 34 points. Freshman Brian Rowan hit for 19 points while fellow freshman Jamie Hall poured in 14 in the losing effort.

Coach Eddie Biedenbach was pleased with the team’s shooting, but noted several areas where improvement was still needed. “The tempo was not like that of a team who will be playing N.C. State, Duke, Notre Dame and going for the Southern Conference Championship.” Biedenbach conceded that the problem of keeping a fast tempo going will become easier as the team continues to improve its stamina and strength.Physical condition of the players, Biedenbach was pleased with the mental aspect. “The attitude (of the team) is conducive to having a good season.” The fans who saw the scrimmage came away encouraged. The confidence of the coaching staff and the players has begun to slowly exude to the students as they anticipate a brand of competitive basketball which will be fast-paced, exciting, and fun to watch.

The Davidsonian reported, although the field was cluttered with the bodies of forty dead freshmen. Following the accident, the mess was cleaned up by several eager Comparative Anatomy students and the opening kickoff was only 30 minutes behind schedule.

MacFleet jumped to a 12-0 lead and had the E-baggers wondering what in the hell was going on. Jim Richards led the E team down for a score, but MacFleet came back to make it 18-6 with the superb play of Chip Carter and Jon Stroud. Joby Merton made the offensive play of the tourney by catching a deflected pass in the east corner of the end zone. The E boys tied it at 25 apiece, but with a minute left in the game MacFleet had it 32-31. Then, Jon Stroud broke away for a ninety-yard run in 5.3 seconds to make it 38-31 and ruin our predicted one-point spread.

The final game of the season was played today to decide the championship. A replay of the action will be aired on WDAV at 11 pm. Well, Bernie, it was a great season and maybe we should mention some of the highlights of the tourney. Hurtin’ for Certain put on a magnificent showing down the stretch by clocking the Old Men 46-26 and barely losing to MacFleet 13-12. Bear, Eddie, Minor, and Richard should have their first names mentioned. The Tuts proved to be the best freshman team by slipping past the Hole, but were crushed by KA Gold in a big league game.

The sun hung low over the KA House Tuesday night as the Southern Gentlemen were removed from the championship seat by MacFleet 32-13. Yes, Rosie, we stunk. The KA team had previously lost a tough one to SAE 13-12. In the battle of the minor sex, the Penthouse Rowdies defeated Ruskeller 12-0. These girls were never scored on all year and it is a vow that they have promised to keep throughout their stay at Davidson.

That's all for this week. Hello blimps! Three-on-three basketball rosters due tomorrow. Kiss a monkey. Later.