editor back | Page September 22, 1978

ROOTED IN folk, but mixed with country, blues, and bluegrass, the music of Phil and Gaye Johnson will be heard this weekend in the 900 Room. Phil and Gaye Johnson, from Green Creek, North Carolina, offer a unique blend of traditional and contemporary folk, country, and bluegrass music, as well as a generous portion of western swing, ragtime, and blues. The caliber of their performance is illustrated by the fact that they were awarded the title of Outstanding Performers at the three-day Asheville Folk Festival this past August.

Phil and Gaye have been together since 1973. They operated a folk music shop in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia for four years. They hosted a live weekly radio program from WMRA-FM in Harrisonburg, Va., and a 13-week television series produced by WVPT in Harrisonburg. This series was selected for airing by the SECA, a network of 40 public television stations in 15 states over the Southeast.

Gaye Johnson, who plays guitar and does most of the lead singing, was born and raised in the small township of Green Creek. Her musical roots are deeply set in the foothills of the Blue Ridge Mountains. Her first musical experience was that of hymn singing in the local country church, and she learned to play guitar by listening and learning from family and friends. Gaye brings to her performance a sweet, mellow vocal style that complements her natural charm.

Phil Johnson, who is originally from the West, grew up listening to the Western and “cowboy” sounds of Gene Autry and others. He seemed to absorb the musical culture of each region he visited as he traveled around the country. As he settled in the South, he felt a deep kinship with the people and places that he writes and sings about. Phil plays mandolin, slide dobro, harmonica, and does some of the lead singing.

Phil and Gaye Johnson know where their music came from, and they have definite ideas about where it will lead them. They perform their music with all the emotion and enthusiasm that can be found only in artists who are dedicated to what they believe in. Phil and Gaye believe in their music.

Sports:
Football
Sept. 23—Wofford at Home, 2 pm.

Soccer
Sept. 22—Winthrop College away.
Sept. 24—Western Carolina University away.

Cross-country Men
Sept. 23—King, Berea, Warren Wilson Colleges away.

Field Hockey
Sept. 26—Catawba at home, 4 pm.

Unique folk duo performs

College Bowl, the quiz game that was a television and radio favorite from 1962 through 1970, is coming back to Davidson and other campuses all across the country and abroad.

Last year, hundreds of U.S. colleges played College Bowl, “the varsity sport of the mind,” and competed for $32,500 in scholarship cash awards. Sixteen regional champions won all-expense-paid trips to Miami Beach in May 1978, to compete in the College Bowl National and World Championship Tournament during College Bowl week. Stanford won the National Championship and $5000 in cash. Then the British All-Star team beat Stanford for the World Championship and $7500 in cash.

Between October and Christmas, the College Union will sponsor intramural competition between “sporting minds.” A varsity team will be chosen from the participants in this intramural competition for regional and championship play. Interested? Organize a team of 4 plus an alternate (or sign up and we'll try to find a team for you) and sign up at the Union Information Desk between Monday, Sept. 25.and Wednesday, October 4 at 5 pm. An organizational meeting will be held October 5. Play begins the week of Monday, October 9.

campus activities

Friday, September 22, 1978
‘Smokey and the Bandit,’ Love Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 pm.
Phil and Gaye Johnson, 900 Room, 9:30 and 11 pm.

Saturday, September 23, 1978
Davidson Garden Club Sale, plants and other things, Village Green, All Day.
Phil and Gaye Johnson, 900 Room, 9:30 and 11 pm.

Sunday, September 24, 1978
Dr. Thomas F. Torrance (see story).

Monday, September 25, 1978
Dr. Thomas F. Torrance (see story).

Tuesday, September 26, 1978
Worship Service, led by Dr. Kaylor and students, DCPC, 7 pm.

Wednesday, September 27, 1978
Truman and the A-Bomb, and Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Perkins, 2:15 pm, followed by:
Discussion of Nuclear and Other Forms of Energy, Conference Room; this discussion is primarily for Chemistry 21 students, but is open to the student body. This event will also be held on Thursday.
Fine Film, The King of Marvin Gardens, Love Aud., 8 pm.
Open Luncheon, speaker Varie Brusso (Ms. Brusso is a Cherokee Indian), formerly with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 900 Room, 12:30 pm, $1.25.

Thursday, September 28, 1978
Little Big Man, Love Auditorium, 8 & 10:30 pm.

Weekend — Homecoming, featuring “Asleep at the Wheel,” a Casino Party, and more.

torrance talks to students

The Rev. Dr. Thomas F. Torrance, Moderator of the 1976 General Assembly of the Church of Scotland, will be speaking on campus Sunday and Monday. He is presently the Professor of Christian Dogmatics at New College, Edinburgh, Scotland.

Professor Torrance is the son of a Bible Society Missionary. He was born in China in 1913 and received most of his early schooling at Chengtu, the capital of Szechwan Province. He graduated M.A. from Edinburgh University and three years later gained a B.D. from New College. He also studied in Athens, Jerusalem, Berlin, Oxford, and at the University of Basel, Switzerland, with Karl Barth. He served as war chaplain for three years in the Middle-East. After the war, he returned to his ministry at Alyth Barony Church, Perthshire. He married Margaret Spear of Combe Down, Bath, in 1946. They have two sons and a daughter.

In 1947 he was called to Beechgrove Church, Aberdeen. He remained there until 1950 when he was inducted to the Chair of Church History at New College, Edinburgh University’s Faculty of Divinity. In 1962, Professor Torrance was transferred to his present Chair of Christian Dogmatics. A man of outstanding academic achievement, Professor Torrance has received honorary doctorates from Universities of Montreal, Geneva, Paris, St. Andrews, and Oslo, as well as having earned two other doctorates at Edinburgh and Basel.

Professor Torrance is the author of numerous recognized theological works. His special interest is the relation of science and theology, and he is President of the Academic Internationale des Sciences Religieuses which includes some of the world’s leading theologians. Professor Torrance spends most of his leisure time at a cottage on the coast of East Lothian. His hobbies include fishing and an occasional game of golf.

His schedule at Davidson is as follows:
Sunday, September 24, 1978—11 am, DCPC, “The Oneness of Jesus with the Father,” John 5:1-30.
Sunday, September 24, 1978—8 pm, 900 Room, with the Davidson Christian Fellowship, “Man the Priest of Creation.”
Monday, September 25, 1978—10 am, Chambers Art Gallery, “Creation and Science.”
Monday, September 25, 1978—7:30 pm, 900 Room, “Contemporary Theology: Theology within the Scientific Transition to a New Outlook.”