December 1, 1978 The Davidsonian

FORMER EXECUTIVE Director of WDAV Don Lovell has moved to a new position at the radio station as "Part-time Community Relations Coordinator." (Phil Howerton)

Learning the Lessons

College and student officials go slow on 100-watt proposal

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

Student Body President Bruce Brown expressed qualified support this week for a 100-watt student-operated radio station. “The SGA would support a new station but we first have to have some expression of widespread student interest. This is just a first step. But it must be there in order to justify expenditure of funds on a station.” Brown continued, “We aren’t interested in providing an illusion of interest. It needs to be genuine and especially a continuing interest. If there is sufficient interest, the Senate will organize a task force to look into finances, licensing, and the governance of the station,” said Brown.

“There is no need to whip up interest that's not real. But if it is genuine then the college administration has made it clear that it will accept the proposal.” Terry added, “As a Media Board member, I think we should have a very clear role in mind for the station and where the lines of authority run.”

Architect for proposed Commons named

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

The College Trustee building and grounds committee announced November 22 the selection of William B. Little and Associates of Charlotte to design the proposed Dining Commons. Grover Meetze, Director of the Physical Plant, lauded Architect Little, describing him as “imaginative and creative as well as cost-conscious.” College President Samuel Spencer echoed Meetze’s praise. “I’ve been very much impressed with the work that Bill Little has done.”

Although the Commons is to serve 600 students, it will be constructed to allow for later possible expansion. Its cost is presently pegged at $2 million, over half of which has been raised, and is slated for completion.

News at a Glance

Filing deadline Tuesday

Editorships of The Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, the Wildcat Handbook, and the Miscellany are among the offices to be filled in the December 12 elections. Other positions up for election are Union Board President, Union Board Social Committee Chairman, Union Board Co-Curricular Chairman, Freshman Advisers, Hearing Committee members, and YMCA President, Vice-President, Secretary, and Treasurer. Candidates should sign up in the Dean of Students’ Office by 4 pm on December 5. If there are any questions, call Bruce Brown at 892-2000, extension 147.

Hobart’s Park cuts costs

The editors of Hobart’s Park, Davidson's new literary magazine, have decided to have the magazine printed by Moreland Hogan, the editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette, instead of a Charlotte printer. Hogan can print the magazine at half the cost of the lowest previous offer, and the location of his press, in Davidson, will be much more convenient for the staff. This move entails delaying the date of the first issue from December 8 to early in the last week before Christmas break. According to Amanda Hall, one of the editors, the first issue will be well worth the wait. “In this issue, we'll have one excellent long short story, a lot of poetry, some political writing, and essays.”Photographic essay, book reviews, and a preview of upcoming drama workshops, — Hall. "Possible by the new printer... One thousand five hundred copies will be free to all students,” said Hall. 

The magazine will be approximately 8 x 10 inches in size and will be printed on high-quality paper. Hobart's Park is funded through the SGA activities tax. Contributors: Mike Cooper and Dennis McLawhorn.

After months of study, however, a site for the structure remains undecided. One proposal calls for Richards and Bailey houses on Patterson Court to be moved apart with the Commons situated between them. 

COLLEGE PRESIDENT Samuel Spencer says he is really happy with the architect selected to design the new Commons. Spencer indicated Tuesday that the College may break with previous policy and consider a style other than Jeffersonian. “We will depend on him to come up with a suggested design." If he "used a different basic style," Spencer added that "he would want to fit this into the campus."

India bound? (Continued from page 2)

The program will offer a world country experience. We often learn much about ourselves when we encounter a culture different from our own. “The Indian culture is one of the oldest continuously existing traditions, certainly worth close study.” Kaylor closed by saying that he would be happy to discuss the program with interested students.

PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
- CONTRACEPTION
- VASECTOMY
- PREGNANCY TESTING
- SPEAKERS
- COUNSELING
- LIBRARY
- EARLY ABORTION

CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

College President Samuel Spencer considers the 100-watt station a viable possibility given student support. He added, however, that other options should not be overlooked. “Besides a 100-watt station, there is the possibility of an FM side band as well as a carrier current. I feel the latter is the best way to go. This would not require FCC licensing.” Spencer noted that an FM side band, which had been considered briefly, would be too expensive to implement. The side band alternative would require students wishing to listen to the station to purchase special receiving equipment.

Former WDAV Station Manager Carrington Thompson, who first aired the 100-watt proposal four weeks ago at a student rally, disagreed with Spencer. “A carrier current station is not a viable alternative,” he said. “I'd very much like to see a 100-watt station although it would require FCC licensing. Another possibility would be a cable FM station. Like a carrier current operation, it would not need FCC approval though it has high fidelity,” Thompson stated, “but it would be expensive installing cable outlets in each room.” Thompson stressed the need for clear guidelines on the station’s governance before any further progress on the proposal takes place. He called a November 22 statement by the Communications Department affording work opportunities by WDAV for students “as meaningless as the WDAV Constitution.”

Lunch or dine in an aura of Victorian elegance. Hosts so many, not you are the University of...