December 15, 1978

Student debates College's ‘Christian atmosphere’

To the Editor:

This is in reply to the letter from Ms. and Mr. Oliver, published last week in The Davidsonian, in which
the Olivers praised the “Christian atmosphere” of Davidson College. Besides other reasons for replying, I wish to correct this inaccurate/limited
and frankly naive view of the college community.

It is probably true that the notion of a close, warm, Christian climate of intellectual inquiry is a public image
that certain portions of the school actively present; thus the Olivers were perhaps honestly deceived. However, it is not the
case that Davidson College does in fact maintain any sort of “Christian atmosphere” in its pursuit of “intellectual inquiry.”

Indeed, the notion that “free intellectual inquiry and high academic reputation” could occur within the bounds of Christianity is contradictory
because it places dogmatic arbitrary restrictions on such pursuit.

I count myself fortunate to have been exposed, at Davidson, to intellectual tools which empower me to move beyond a
moral and ethical code written by and for a society which no longer exists. (This is not to disparage Christianity
as such. The Bible is relevant still in some ways; but so are other books as well.) Indeed, one of
the most powerful of these tools comes from within the Religion department itself in the form of the excellent Modern
Criticisms of Religion course. Were it the case that Davidson professors were bound by Christian ideals, it could not be
true that, e.g., a professor argues with colorful variation the evidence that God is dead and his embalmers didn’t do
such a good job.

As I continued to read The Davidsonian, I noted with a smile some of the headlines, articles, and advertisements which
appeared concurrently with the Olivers’ letter: What's happened to the honor code?; theft in the Union; Charlotte cartoonist labels Davidson
corrupt; the article which described the upcoming lecture by Andrew Sarris, A Conversation on Pornography; an advertisement by Planned Parenthood
of various services including contraception, pregnancy tests, and abortions to a college community which includes perhaps two married couples.

Davidson College was indeed founded by the Presbyterian Church and is “committed to the historic Christian faith” (Statement of Purpose).
This once included mandatory chapel and Bible courses. Today, however, Davidson College shares the fate of other liberal arts schools,
among them Harvard and Princeton, which have secularized.

Let us not neglect our commitment. God forbid that Davidson become like Harvard.

Steve Cadenhead '79
Davidson College

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or
bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in
that week's issue.

Life has changed for students abroad

To the Editor:

It was just a few weeks ago that a friend wrote to me expressing concern that I had “been lost
to the life of a cosmopolitan world traveler.” This called for a reply not only to my friend/friends but also
to all you Davidsonians who are wondering what has become of the fourteen or so students spending their junior year
abroad in Montpellier.

As to whether or not I have been “lost,” it is difficult to say. I will in any case probably
return to Davidson next year as a Senior. This year I am spending abroad is, I think, going to be
one of the most difficult (not necessarily academically) and yet most satisfying years of my life.

Student life in Montpellier is quite a contrast to the sheltered life we lead at Davidson where doing the laundry
remains, for most of us, a mysterious phenomenon that occurs in the brick building beside the police station, professors miss
a class rarely more than once a year, and Beirut remains only headlines in the newspaper.

None of my classes (except one with Dr. Dockery, the assistant professor of French) are taught in English. This has
been a challenge but also an incredible learning experience. I have had to adapt to a new culture, a new
language, and a new way of thinking. It has been both humbling and exhilarating.

Rates: 1 year $6.00, 2 years $11.00.director), met for a long cause of a student-teacher strike protesting certain government policies.
(There were even some students who marched in the streets blocking 6:00 rush hour traffic.) Laundry is a tedious task
avoided until the last sock has been worn twice. And you will find more than one Lebanese student from Beirut
who will gladly tell you Jimmy should go back to peanut farming. Yes, a year abroad can be quite an
enlightening experience. The possibilities of getting to know people—all kinds of people (the University of Montpellier, including the various faculties
or schools, has an enrollment of 35,000 students of almost every imaginable nationality) are unlimited. But you must be open
and aggressive (I have yet to run into a fraternity party like we have on Patterson Court).

As for travel: for most of our group, spending this year in Montpellier means saving every extra penny and going,
for example, to Rome and Vienna over Christmas instead of to grandmother’s to eat turkey. Yet the life of us
“world travelers” is far from glorious at times. Although we are not completely alone—thanks to the loads of work the
resident director tackles, it is often you yourself who must unravel the mysteries of the French bureaucracy. Sometimes the going
gets rough. More than once I have wondered while standing in a “line” if what I and the other students
were doing didn’t resemble more a game of football than a group trying to enter a room.

By BILL PEEBLES, Features Editor

Newsweek features a weekly column entitled “My Turn.” Guest writers from all walks of life are invited to speak their
minds. Now it is my turn. I will not linger on self-selection, WDAV, course registration, or faculty hiring-and-firing. As my
mother has always told me, “life is too short.” As Christmas nears, there are more important things. For instance, a
great American died a few weeks ago. Norman Rockwell's life of painting captured the best of America for over half
a century. His obituary did not make The Davidsonian. Amidst such startling news as the Jonestown suicides, the minds of
people fail to turn to an idealistic painter. Rockwell depicted America the way it should be, though, and this extreme
helped tip the scales of national consciousness from evil to good. With his passing, this balance is even more delicate.

In this holiday season, thoughts turn to friends far away. Friends like Steve Helms, who lasted a year at Davidson.
He has a practical mind, and when he made a C in Eco 101, he knew something was wrong. So,
Steve hightailed it to Chicago where he works for Ray Friedman’s brokerage firm. He will clear over thirty grand this
year. Steve has done well as a college drop-out, which makes me wonder if the ideal of four years of
college and thirty grand is worth it. I do not say the Nobel Peace Prize is a joke. While all
the nations of the world will move towards peace, it is not yet a reality. Peace is a worthy ideal.

Men who receive appointments to the United States Supreme Court usually become changed individuals, taking their lifetime appointments very seriously.
They are selected not so much for what they have done in the past, but for what they can be
expected to achieve in the future. Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin have received a similar charge. These two men are
neighbors who do not want their grandsons to grow up shooting at one another. They are also joint winners of
the 1978 Peace Prize. The boys at Nobel selected them for what they can be expected to accomplish for the
cause of world peace. God bless them.

One final idea is in my mind. I have two reviews this week, but right now I have better things
to think about. I am talking about a chubby old man.
