Vol. LXVII, No. TWENTY Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036 ® March 24, 1978

Brown, Jackson discuss future plans
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Bruce Brown was elected President of the SGA by garnering 464 votes, of a total of 847 cast, to the
383 of his opponent, Lynn Langley. John Jackson, by receiving 434 votes to Bill Peeples’ 159 and John Stiefel’s 196,
captured the Vice-President’s post. On the night of their victory, they discussed areas in which they want to work and
some of their ideas that they hope to incorporate.

President Bruce Brown said they hope to begin the “substitute things.” First on this list will be course evaluation. “It’s
going well now but we need to make it more statistically accurate,” said Brown. This would involve a higher percentage
of student response to questionnaires. It will lead to more honesty and accuracy concerning the courses but we will need
the cooperation of the faculty and administration, he emphasized.

Vice-President John Jackson added that they want to make the course evaluations “a little more relevant for freshmen;” to make
available to them, “the sort of thing that upperclassmen hear through the grapevine.” He continued that they hoped “to give
freshmen who haven’t been here yet the advantages that the upperclassmen have.” He emphasized that “course evaluation is vital because
the courses you choose largely determine the quality of your education.”

Brown also expressed hope that students could become involved with faculty evaluations. He added that faculty evaluations need student input
when it concerns such subjects as tenure. He continued by saying that Vice-President for Academic Affairs T.C. Zimmermann is now
working on a faculty evaluation procedure that “hopefully through the Senate, students will have input into it.” Both Brown and
Jackson agree that the

‘Course crunch’ needs monitoring
By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

Some of the subtler causes and consequences of the course crunch became evident as add-drop was completed and administrators developed
a perspective on the problem. According to the Registrar, Richard Burts, Jr., “We still have some technical problems; some errors
in the add-drop procedure. As soon as we correct these technical errors, I think everyone who wanted three courses will
have them.” However, Academic Vice President and Dean of Faculty T.C. Price Zimmermann admitted, “We need to make adjustments here
and there and we will continue to monitor the situation very closely.”

Dean of Students Will Terry agreed, “We're really going to have to investigate. I think it is particularly unfortunate after
the long winter of our discontent--after the long, cold, winter of our discontent.” Terry said, “I have a real problem
with students forced into courses in which they have no interest, just to have three courses. I’m not saying a
student should only take what he knows he’s interested in, but that really does upset me, upsets students, upsets parents.
In the past, I’ve had calls from parents. They’re paying too much to have their sons and daughters be taking
courses they have no interest in.” But Zimmermann felt the problem “looks worse than it is.” Burts noted that out
of the 420 students who did not have three courses at the beginning of add-drop, close to 70 students did
not want three courses. Zimmermann added, “I think this is an unusual event. I doubt very much that it will
recur to this degree.”

Terry felt that “The factors all merged at this particular time. Professors, students, and the Registrar’s office have done the
best they could, given the conditions of this term.” Terry said he thought Burts has been particularly understanding and open
concerning the problem this term. Zimmermann commented on some of the causes of the problem. Concerning the semester abroad program,
which took three professors and only ten students per professor off campus at once, Zimmermann said, “We are trying to
arrange one of the travelling semesters in the fall. It doesn’t contribute much to the problem to have the professors
gone. Those ten students aren’t enrolling in other courses.” Thus, the professors are actually teaching the equivalent of thirty students.

As for the added strain that leave of absences and sabbaticals place on professors remaining at Davidson, Zimmermann explained, “Leave
of absences are partially helpful because we’re not paying a salary. Sabbaticals, of course, are different.” He added, “Kaylor (Professor
of Religion David R. Kaylor) is a net loss. Dr. Clark (Professor of Religion Thomas Clark) is teaching three terms,
when he usually teaches only two, and [See ZIMMERMANN, page 2]Registration procedure needs some re-evaluation. David Litaker, John Craig III,
and Jeffrey Metzel emphasized that this would involve more interdepartmental cooperation by providing more choice of courses or by raising
the ceilings on those available. Brown advocated an early registration, perhaps eight weeks into the term, which would include going
through drop-add before the term is over. Jackson said, “It would be nice to have the kinks out before the
freshmen arrive.” Brown feels that the Admissions Committee would benefit by having a student member on it. A junior or
senior who’s a responsible student will provide good input, said Brown. Jackson added, “Students also have a clearer idea of
the high school situation.” Brown also emphasized the need for re-organization of the Advisory Councils. He added that in the
past, “they haven’t been meeting often enough and they haven’t been dealing sufficiently with the needed issues.” Jackson added that
the Finance, Personnel, and Development Council should be divided up because now there is too [See OFFICERS, page 2]

Roommates win ‘Watson’
By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

John O’Neal Craig, III, ’78, and Jeffrey Cone Metzel, '78, of Davidson College have each been awarded a Thomas J.
Watson Fellowship. Craig said, “I think it is the first time at Davidson that roommates won the Watson.”

“The Watson” provides $7000 ($9500 if you are married and will be accompanied by your spouse or children during your
fellowship year) to cover the expenses of travel, research, clerical help, and equipment related to the independent study project proposed
by the recipient of the award. It was started in 1968 to enable outstanding college graduates to take a year
of independent study and travel abroad to pursue a special topic or an ongoing interest. Graduating seniors can apply no
matter what their career plans are. “The Watson” is open to nominations from about fifty small liberal arts private colleges
and universities. To apply, students submit their proposals to Dean of Students Will Terry by October 15. The Faculty Committee
on Graduate Fellowships and three students interview candidates and select four students to compete nationally.

Craig’s proposal is entitled, “Racial Tensions in Western Europe” and he plans to visit Great Britain, France, Sweden, and the
Netherlands. Craig is a History major, interested in American and British history. Metzel’s proposal is “International Transportation Systems Within Africa.”
He will study in England, France, Tanzania, Kenya, Zambia, Algeria, Mali, and Niger. Metzel is a Special Center major in
his homemade major, International Development. Craig said, “I plan to go to law school. I was looking for something as
a break between Davidson and law school. I've always been interested in race relations. Craig pointed out, “More and more,
race relations in England are becoming a political football between the Labor Party and the Conservatives.” Craig plans to concentrate
on the West Indian immigrants in England, the Arabs in France, the Moluccans in the Netherlands, and Lebanese and Cyprian
refugees in Sweden. Craig will interview government authorities and prominent intellectuals connected with the situation, as well as the ‘man
on the street.’ He hopes to get a perspective on the American problem. “Mine has nothing to do with future
plans,” commented Craig. “Buck’s might lead directly to a Ph.D. dissertation.” Craig said, “We’re thinking of doing a series of
articles for some newspaper.” [See WATSON, page 2]

By MARGARET JACKSON
Asst. Assignments Editor

Four Davidson students have founded an organization called Project Peace whose goal is to exercise a “harmonizing influence in various
conflict-ridden areas throughout the world.” Sophomores George Cornelson and Mark Hooper, senior Chuck Fiden, and International Student Yousseff Abagui intend
for Project Peace “to promote student awareness as well as take practical action to aid conflict victims,” said Abagui. Currently,
Project Peace is conducting a campaign to raise money and provide clothing to a Lebanese family displaced by recent Israeli-PLO
fighting in Southern Lebanon. Forty dollars were collected Wednesday, the first day of fund-raising. Cornelson said the purpose of this
campaign is to let the Lebanese “know that there are people in the West who actually care what’s going on
over there.” In the future, Project Peace plans to organize public-awareness discussions and debates, making use of films and perhaps
bringing in outside speakers. The students hope that word of Project Peace will spread into the Davidson community, Charlotte, and
other college and university campuses.
