The Davidsonian

February 17, 1978

Kello announces plans for NC Fellows

By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

After the Orientation weekend for newly selected members, the North Carolina Fellows are now concentrating on firming up internship plans and scheduling speakers for luncheons during Spring term. Director of N.C. Fellows John Kello, Professor of Psychology, and Louise T. Martin, Assistant Director, have also begun looking over evaluation forms turned in by participants in the selection process.

“We’re on a week at a time, month at a time basis for now,” said Kello.

The Orientation Weekend was held January 27-28 at a private beach home. The new Fellows lived and discussed a packet of information on the structure of the program, including funding strategy, an extensive report on last year’s internships, and a presentation of possible workshops, retreats, and program activities.

N.C. Fellows invites local leaders in various professions to speak at luncheons held every other Friday. Recent speakers were Dr. John Melbourne of the Neighborhood Medical Clinic in Charlotte, former Senator Sam Ervin, and Charles Ravenel, nominee for Democratic candidate for the Senate from South Carolina.

According to Program Chairman Maria Patterson, “Our big thing this year is to try to open up the speaker programs to the whole campus.”

Patterson is corresponding now with several possible speakers for Spring term, including local political leaders, a spokesman from Spirit Square (a cultural and educational center in Charlotte), and a book reviewer and staff reporter from the Charlotte Observer.

In addition to speakers, several other programs will be held this spring. In April, a representative from the Center for Creative Leadership will hold a half-day workshop for Fellows. Early in the Spring term, there will be a luncheon in Charlotte with a group of bankers.

Ken Wood will discuss internship goals and ways to get the most out of internships. The Fellows also plan to have a luncheon for first-year faculty members.

The Fellows are encouraged to suggest speakers and activities they are interested in, and to help arrange the programs. “We’re not providing shows,” quipped Kello.

“We rely on the input of the group. We are fortunate to have had a succession of Program chairmen who’ve been very interested and involved,” said Kello.

Internship plans are now being finalized for many sophomore and junior Fellows. Both Martin, who is an “excellent source for contacts” according to Kello, and Kello himself are working with Fellows on defining internships.

A few examples of the internships being considered include a medicine-related program in South Asia, chemistry research with a company in New York, political internships with Congressmen, and internships with doctors and lawyers.

“I want to emphasize that the impetus comes from the students. N.C. Fellows does not provide a smorgasbord of internships. We try to choose students who are self-starters. Our job is to provide as many resources for these students as possible,” said Kello.

Freshman Fellows are still “digging around and thinking about internship possibilities,” explained Kello.

“We had some tremendous internships last year because students were interested enough to put in a lot of effort and time to get them, but the program is not a magic carpet,” commented Kello.

Kello and Martin have begun to look over evaluation forms from selection, but an intensive review will not begin until this summer. Any changes in the selection process are “still subject to discussion,” according to Kello.

One possibility under consideration is to allow interviewers more time with each candidate.

A second possibility is to trim the initial screening process from three weeks down to two weeks to avoid having to compile results over Christmas break when no secretarial help is available.

A third possibility is to have the same people serve as interviewers and group observers. In the recent selection, individual interviewers and group observers sometimes differed widely on their evaluations of a candidate. “The same people really need to be seeing all of it,” said Kello.

Evaluation forms also showed that having N.C. Fellows visit Freshman halls was “especially effective” according to Kello. Kello also said that the basic calendar for selection would remain much the same as this year’s.

In talking about the evolution of the Program, Kello said that a few years ago, N.C. Fellows concentrated on internships. “While that is still a major focus of the program, our idea of the program now is to make it a more active, direct organization. We seek to encourage leadership development through service.”

SGA elections signup

All interested sophomores and juniors sign up in Dean Terry’s office from between Tuesday, February 21, and Tuesday, March 14. Elections will be held March 21.

Parks Rexall Drugs

COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly —
Sunday 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.

PAPERBACK BOOKS FOR BOOKLOVERS

BOOKTHRIFT

Quality Titles from the Active Lists of America’s Leading Publishers

THE STUDENT STORE

50% OFF COVER PRICE