The Davidsonian
Philip D. Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager
January 20, 1978

Wanted: Code of evaluation

A professor is called to a meeting with President Spencer and Vice President Zimmermann, but, in violation of the College
Constitution, she is not told that matters of evaluation and contract renewal will be discussed with her at that meeting.
Students are called in to Zimmermann’s office to discuss their professors, but the atmosphere is one of a ‘social chat’
and some students are not aware that their comments are part of evaluations to determine the status of a professor’s
job. The administration claims to place great weight on the recommendations of senior faculty members who work closely with the
teacher under evaluation; yet the positive recommendations of at least three senior professors are disregarded in the evaluation of one
teacher. A professor’s contract is renewed in 1976, and from that time to the day when her contract is terminated,
the administration never suggests to the professor that the College is dissatisfied with her level of competence.

Described above are some of the procedural irregularities common in the administration's evaluation of Dr. Tonia Devon, an outspoken and
energetic Davidson professor whose contract was terminated recently. The irregularities evident in the Devon evaluation point out plainly that Davidson
College has no careful and complete procedure by which to judge the competence of its faculty. Without such a procedure
the College’s efforts to encourage good scholarship and obtain truly outstanding teachers is crippled.

The criteria by which professors are evaluated should remain somewhat non-specific. It is unwise to attempt numerical quantification of teaching
effectiveness, professional competence and reputation as a teacher and scholar, and involvement in the community. These criteria may be flexible;
the procedures by which those criteria are judged must, however, be highly specific. Davidson must have a codified procedure for
evaluating faculty members; a code that stresses continuing evaluation and an ongoing commitment to improvement.

At present, all evaluation activity is channeled through the office of the Academic Vice President. A new code of evaluation
should solicit greater faculty input in the evaluation process, perhaps through a faculty committee on Appointments and Evaluation which would
conduct evaluations independent of the Academic Vice President. Any new code of evaluation should also seek input from students through
course and instructor evaluations.

Where there should be a code of evaluation there is now a void. In that void thrive rumors of administrative
vendettas against outspoken faculty and charges that Spencer and Zimmermann make arbitrary decisions according to their particular whims. Until the
void is filled with a thorough code of evaluation, academic professionalism will be tainted by rumors of inconsistent administrative procedures
and vendettas, and the goal of obtaining a truly excellent faculty will be unattainable.

Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
JIM ENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

News Editors
PAM CAMERRA
DENNIS MCLAWHORN

Editorial Page Editor
CHARLES ERWIN

Features Editor
Focus Editor
BARRY SACHTJEN

Sports Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Photography Editors
ANN GARNER
DAVID LITAKER
GREG STRADER

Graphics Editor
PATSY DANIELS

Inside Art Editor
MEREDITH DURDEN

Managing Editor
MARSHALL WADDELL

Production Manager
AMANDA HALL

Copy Editor
DAVID ISENHOWER

Special Assignments Editor
ANN SHEAFFER

Circulation Manager
IGNATIO LOPEZ

Advertising Manager
BRIAN BENNINGHOFF

Department assistants:
News--Stephen Gold;
Features--Robert Bowie,Esther Bruce: Sports--John Willingham; Focus--Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments--Margaret Jackson; Circulation--Karen Long. Published weekly in the academic year [except during
holidays and examination periods] by students of Davidson College. The Newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College
Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 448; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second-class postage paid
at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Opinion

Pritchett lauded

By BILL BARNETT
Senior Editor

The editorial page is not usually thought of as the place to voice comments about sports. Instead, it is the
place for serious thoughts and criticism of such earthshaking problems as whether or not Davidson should have a Homecoming Queen.
Now, however, it is appropriate to turn to sports.

For example, Basketball Coach Dave Pritchett has been criticized by many people on campus. He has been called a quitter
by some, while others have merely criticized the logic which led to his selection as coach. "How could we have
chosen such an unstable personality?" cry the cynics. Such criticism is unfair and unmerited. Certainly, Pritchett has made some mistakes,
but on the whole, he has done a good job and should be looked upon as an inspiration for the
whole campus.

Pritchett came onto the scene when the basketball program was at an all-time low. The returning players were forlorn and
dejected—the latest coach had left after working with them for only four days. Within months after Pritchett’s arrival, the players’
spirits had perked up. Without making any brash predictions, Pritchett quietly let the whole campus know he was going to
be a winner.

Last season Davidson lost a lot of games, but the mood of the team never fell. Indeed, it may have
picked up. For many of the students here, last year’s thrilling 72-70 loss to Wake Forest was the first chance
they had ever had to rally behind a sports program which would be a winner. Pritchett worked hard last spring
and brought in some stellar recruits. All the signs indicated that this year we might have a winning team, and
after that, who knows? Maybe we would even get back into the Top Twenty.

What was truly exciting, though, was that the students had something else to be proud of besides academics. Academics are
great—they are the main reason we are all here. No one would deny that; however, academics certainly don’t add much
spice to college life. The grind of a pre-med curriculum is a lot easier to bear if you can relax
occasionally, have a beer in the Union, and discuss the big win over Furman.

Davidson certainly has no reason to be ashamed of Dave Pritchett. He turned our basketball around more quickly than anyone
dreamed possible. If we are on the road back to the Top Twenty, it is almost solely due to his
influence. Get Well Soon petitions are now being circulated around campus to send to Pritchett. Hopefully, they will cheer him
up and he will return to a job in the Athletic Department at Davidson. His enthusiasm, drive, and infectious spirit
would certainly be welcome. Sign a petition if you would like to encourage the Administration to redouble its efforts to
find a good new coach who could complete the job Pritchett started.
