‘_- 4A—n Tha Pia. hn i The Davidsonian Philip Duncan, Editor G. Martin Hunter II, Business Manager Volume LXVIII, Number
Two September 15, 1978 Forgotten In the midst of the battle currently raging over who should control radio station WDAV,
something very important has been forgotten. That forgotten factor is the Constitution of Davidson College adopted in 1976. The Constitution
established a Student Media Board, a diverse group with members from each segment of the College community, and granted the
Board extensive authority over all College-sponsored student media at Davidson. According to Article II, Section 5 of the Constitution, the
students, faculty, administrators, and media representatives on the Board are to be “responsible for student media.” The Board “authorizes College-sponsored
media” staffed by students, reviews the budgets and the finances of the various media, and oversees the appointment and conduct
of editors (written media) and general managers (electronic media). Judging from this impressive list of responsibilities, the Media Board was
clearly conceived in the Constitution as a broad-based group representing all segments of the College community that was to have
the final say, subject to Trustee approval, on any significant matters involving the student media. When the first Media Board
was selected and set about its work in 1977, all the student media, save one, fell in line under its
jurisdiction. The one exception—WDAV. The WDAV Board of Directors, a group laden with DAV staffers and administrators connected to the
Communications Department, refused to work as a subcommittee of the Media Board and asserted its independence from the Board. The
DAV Board continued to work closely with the administration in establishing policy for the radio station. In 1977, The Davidsonian
warned of the closed-house nature of the DAV Board and the chummy relationship between media and administration. The newspaper asked
that decisions regarding the radio station’s future be handled by the Media Board, a more diverse group with a broader
perspective and less direct connections with the Administration. The warning should have been heeded, for now the WDAV Board, all
along only a quasi-official body with an informal statement of purpose, has been swallowed up by the administration. Using the
newfound rationale that WDAV is not a student media, but is rather a College radio station, all important powers over
the radio station have seemingly been stripped from the DAV Board and are now consolidated in the hands of a
few in the administration and Board of Trustees. By instituting a Media Board, the Constitution granted all members of the
College community a voice in the operation of all the student media. But since the Constitution was adopted two years
ago, the community has lost control of a student medium into which the administration is pouring thousands of dollars. The
policy-shapers at WDAV now constitute but a small segment of the community—the top-level administrators and Trustees. This collapsing of the
community’s influence on a student media outlet into a handful certainly violates the spirit and possibly violates the letter of
the law as set out in the Constitution. To make matters worse, the administration and Trustees, having consolidated power over
WDAV, manage the station in a style that can only be described as bungling. Decision-making is a waffling and capricious
process—a statement of policy released today may next month be as good as Confederate money after the Civil War. Communications
with staff BULL BARNETT MARRY GREYARD Editors Features Editors Sports Editor CHARLES ERWIN MERIDETH DURDEN BARRY SACHTJEN DENNIS MCLAWHORN BILL
PEEPLES Editorial Editor Focus Editor The Back Page Editor Secale MURDAUGH ANN GARNER LINDA HOOPES Graphics Editor Photography Editor Special
Assignments Editor BILL COWARD GREGG STRADER ANN SHEAFFER Editor Production Manager CAVE ISENHOWER AMANDA HALL Advertising Manager Circulation Manager ADAIR
GREEN KAREN LONG Department assistants —News—Ben Caldwell, Sports—Mike Brice, John Willingham, Editorial Page—Sheri Gravett, Focus—Carol Leptasa, Photography—Bill Hi, Margaret Joc,
Pracher thems Daya Revision. Published weekly in the academic year except during holidays and examination periods by students of Davidson
College. The newspaper's office is on the second floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036.
Telephone: 892-2008, ext. 4149; subscription rate $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, NC
The Davidsonian Editorial Board — the editor,gat ive editors, senior editors, and editorial select the topics for the newspaper's Wr
the editors first exchange of ideas brewer of members and the opinions expressed are those of the staff and do
not reflect the view of each member of the Board. The staffers' work is sporadic, crisis-oriented, sometimes non-existent. The Administration
does not even have the good sense and courtesy to tell the students when it decides to close down the
station’s post office box. Two recommendations: Those on the Media Board last year have passed from office, but soon a
new Media Board will be selected. We urge that Board to move quickly and vigorously to recapture the rights afforded
it in the Constitution, rights illegitimately proscribed by others since 1976. Only if the Media Board oversees the radio station
and the other student media can we be assured that these outlets of information will operate sensibly, remain truly responsive
to the College community, and prove a service to Davidson. At the end of this month, a committee of Trustees,
faculty, students, and administrators will be on campus to consider revisions to the College Constitution. We suggest that this committee
thoroughly evaluate the sections in the Constitution relating to the student media. If, as the constitution now states, all members
of the community are to have a meaningful voice in shaping the direction of all student media through the Media
Board, let the revision committee recommend that the Trustees remind the Administration of its constitutional obligations to the Media Board.
All significant matters regarding the radio station must first pass through the DAV Board of Directors for full discussion and
then to the Media Board for final deliberation and decision. —Philip Duncan

Opinion

Ethicist questions artificial fertilization

Last week in this column Dr. J.F. Hulka presented the atti- he and his colleague, Andre E. Hellegers, wrote for
America (August 19, 1978) raises the ethical issues involved. McCormick, Professor of Christian Ethics at the Kennedy Institute of Ethics
in Washington’s Georgetown University, is part of a federal advisory board now to discuss these issues.

Out There

As early as 1897, artificial insemination from the husband (AIH) was condemned by Pope Leo XIII. Flatly denying donor insemination
(AID) in 1949, Pope Pius XII added that the means of AIH did not justify it: "Procreation of a new
life (should be) according to the will and plan of the Creator.” McCormick explains, “Clearly, Pius XII was appealing to
the personal character of the conjugal act. Equivalently, his argument was that AIH is morally inappropriate because the child so
conceived is not the fruit of an act of itself the experience of personal love. For the good of the
child and the family, conception ought to occur in such an atmosphere.” Others have argued that the couple’s attitude toward
AIH and the separation of the “unitive and procreative dimensions of marital intimacy” is a problem concerning any present or
future technique of less than natural reproduction. Yet particular ethical problems are involved with in vitro fertilization. Before achieving a
successful embryo transfer, Dr. zygotes (fertilized ova). These have been called abortions, but McCormick adds: “In cases of abortion, there
is usually presumed to be a conflict between the existence of the conceptus and some right of the mother, whether
it be to her life, her physical health, her mental health, or some other alleged right. In the present case,
there is and can be no conflict between the conceptus in vitro and such a maternal right.” There is also
a possibility of a deformed fetus. Is it right, asks (See DEFORMED, page 5)

Letter to the Editor

Thanks a lot, folks

To the Editor:

Now that it’s over, we have the time to thank those who helped make Freshman Orientation such a success. From
the hall counselors whose enthusiasm and efficiency kept the orientation on schedule to those friends, especially Glen Darbyshire, who we
pulled off the street and pressed into service writing people hunt clues and picking up freshmen from the airport, we
are indebted to you and grateful for your efforts. We also wish to thank the Dean of Students office for
their help and support. Finally, a special note of thanks to Dean
