The Navidsanian, February 10, 1978

Conductor struggles to improve symphony

By ROBIN DINDA
Staff Writer

Davidson, North Carolina, is the home of Davidson College. It is also the home of the director of the Charlotte Symphony, Leo Driehuys. "Well, I like it. Charlotte is a nice place to work, and Davidson is a nice place to live. Small... quiet... a good place to have a family."

How did Driehuys come to Charlotte in the first place? "I had done guest conducting in New York six or seven times. Up there they have, how shall I say it? More of a high level of culture. I think that more and more people are moving down from the North, and these people are used to a higher level in the way of music, art, drama, and so forth. I wanted to come to the South, where I could actively help the cultural program grow."

Charlotte has been boosting its cultural program lately. The appointment of Driehuys to the post of director stirred up quite an interest. Many thought that this move might give the Symphony a great deal of impetus. "The Charlotte Symphony is, at present, a Metropolitan orchestra. My major goal is to make it a Major Symphony orchestra in five years."

Out of the over 120 symphony orchestras in the United States today, only 29 of these are classified as Major Symphony Orchestras. The difference is primarily one of funding. Driehuys comes from Holland, where the orchestras are governmentally funded. "Since the government takes care of our finances, all we really have to do is say, 'Hey, we need some money for a symphony,' and we get it! The result of this is that the musicians are well paid, and we get excellent symphonies.

"In the United States, if a musician tells someone that he plays in a symphony, that person might say, 'but what do you do for a living?' In Holland, of course, the musicians are known to be well taken care of."

Driehuys was quick to point out, however, that the playing of the amateur musician in the United States was generally on a much higher level than that of the European amateurs. He personally chooses all of the works that the Charlotte Symphony will play. "I'm about to start introducing some larger, more modern works. It was necessary for me to have the Symphony play well-known works this season, so that I could find out what they were able to handle." He also said that the interest of the audience must be considered. Part of the attempt at having the audiences enjoy the programs is the institution of "pop" concerts, which feature lighter works such as Strauss waltzes and Gershwin tunes.

"I'm trying to make this a part of the community. In Europe, the orchestras are seen as a part of the social life; it is for people to use. Too often in the United States I find orchestras playing with nobody even taking an interest in them. The symphony should be for everybody. People should not come to it or stay away from it because they are supposed to. I am trying to make it so that it will become a part of the community, something that everyone will want to come to."

Driehuys is in the unusual position of having two directing contracts, one in Charlotte and one in Holland. The latter requires him to leave for Europe four times a year for three weeks at a time. However, he still has time to spend with students and newspaper interviewers.

Is there much of a difference between what the orchestras play in Europe and what they play here? "No, not as much as you might think. In Holland we may play some more modern works or large Romantic pieces, but we're working on that now in Charlotte."

Driehuys is directing his efforts towards having the Symphony become a part of the community. He is an avid promoter of the arts, especially with students. "The students are the ones, of course, who will be leading the arts in the years to come."

By ESTHER BRUCE
Assistant Features Editor

When you turn in a research paper and get a good grade, so what? What have you accomplished? Are you a better person? According to Debbie Dillon, "the rewards you get out of teaching are twice as good as a letter grade."and eleven other students spent the first six weeks of this term teaching in area schools. The experience that these students had was rewarding to most. Results, they agree, are what make teaching exciting. “It’s something very tangible that you can see,” said Bev Jones.

Leo Driehuys, conductor of the Charlotte Symphony, pauses above a score at his Davidson home out towards Concord. He’s trying hard to raise it from a metropolitan orchestra to a major symphony. [David Litaker]

Hunter Boyd told of a particular case which would encourage any teacher. She had one student who was failing. He kept trying and finally made a B on something. This student was ecstatic. He yelled and jumped around the room. “I was so happy,” said Boyd, “I just had to cry.” Of course, the bad things are very real. The student teachers admit that all kids are going to test them, and some will continue to the bitter end. Dillon strongly believes, however, that “the good stuff makes the bad stuff bearable.”

Rewards come in ways other than seeing student achievement. “You learn a lot yourself,” said Dillon. She is teaching English and explained that if you are teaching a literary piece, you have to do research on it so that you can in turn present it to your class. Boyd also emphasized the learning aspect of teaching. “I learned more in this term than I have in any other term at Davidson.” She is studying Spanish in conjunction with education. Through her teaching, she said that she gained a better mastery of Spanish grammar.

Teaching is hard. Contrary to popular student belief, the receiving end in the classroom is not the worst one. Bev Jones stated sincerely, “it’s three times harder to stand in front of a class than to sit in one... it’s an active, not a passive thing.” Because this program only lasts a relatively short period of time, it is necessary that the student take over another teacher’s classroom. The teacher whose place the student usurps has the responsibility of observing and evaluating the aspiring teacher. The presence of the teacher alone helps the student. Dillon explained, “it’s really a comfort to know someone’s there.” Boyd said that this situation has improved in recent years. “They used to think that a student teacher was a six-week coffee break for the supervising teacher.” The occasional times when the teacher was out of the room did give the practice teachers a feeling of confidence. They could almost feel as if it were their own classroom. It was not their classroom, however. They could never quite forget that. Dillon described the feeling as, “like being in someone else’s house.”

Crowds hurt top slopes
By JEFF MORROW
Staff Writer

For North Carolina Ski Resorts, March is the busiest season. The coldest weather runs from now to March and area operators anticipate bringing one half million skiers to the slopes. Aside from giving up skiing, there are other ways to avoid the crowd. Here is information on the best four skiing areas in the Blue Ridge.

Beech Mountain: As one of the two most dominant areas, Beech offers student rates on weekdays. With a current college ID, the lift ticket is $5 and rental is $3. Beech offers a variety of slopes. It has an excellent, yet crowded, beginning slope and three fast-when-icy advanced slopes. However, the private road to Beech Mountain is nearly impassable in bad weather due to ice.

Seven Devils: Far less crowded than either Beech or Sugar. To miss the crowds, it is a good bet. Drawbacks include an equally treacherous entrance road and a lack of snowmaking equipment. Seven Devils is one of the best areas after heavy snowfalls.

Sugar Mountain: Once the largest resort in North America, Sugar is great for its large snowmaking capacity. Having the steepest slopes in the state, it is popular with advanced skiers. As the nearest and largest resort, Sugar tends to be overcrowded.

Cataloochee: Great area after natural snowfall, but inadequate snowmaking capacity hinders it otherwise. Ideal for a weekend or other trips lasting a few days, since it is at least four hours from Davidson. To avoid the weekend crunch, Cataloochee and Seven Devils should be considered when the snow is good even though they aren’t as crowded as other areas.