September 22, 1978

New professors (left to right) James Swisher, Benjamin Garrett, William R. Wellnitz, George W. Poe, and Patton.

New professors talk about Davidson
By HOWARD BROWNE and EDITH PARKER
Staff Writers

Freshmen might not realize it, but they are not the only ones sailing on strange new academic seas. Davidson also
sports a handful of new professors each fall. They too must become familiar with faculty, students, and the local area.

Professor William R. Wellnitz received his bachelor's degree from Cornell, his Master's in Molecular Biology from the University of Colorado
at Boulder, and a Ph.D. from Cornell. He was teaching some lab courses when he was informed of an opening
at Davidson College. “It had just the courses I wanted to teach.” The letter concerning the opening at Davidson was
mailed in May and Wellnitz had not been told of it until July 11. He first checked to see if
the job still existed and then applied.

Coming to teach at Davidson was a special treat for Professor George W. Poe. He graduated from Davidson in 1974
as a French major. He spent his junior year in Montpellier, so he is a strong advocate of Davidson’s foreign
exchange program. After spending a year studying in Paris, he received his Master's from Middlebury. He is presently working on
his Ph.D. at Duke. Returning to Davidson is a special pleasure for his wife Sylviane because she spent a year
at Davidson as an exchange student. Poe knew basically what he was coming back to, but he returned to a
few changes. “There have been additions to the physical plant. The 900 Room was a very pleasant surprise.” He was
very anxious to see how the coed system was working because it was first instated his senior year. “I feel
that it is a definite plus. It has brought in new interest and energy.”

Patton graduated in 1968 and then completed the Air Defense and the Armor Officers course of the U.S. Army. He
graduated from the JFK Institute for Military Assistants. He was taught there to become an advisor to the Vietnamese. He
took a Command Tour in Vietnam for 12 months. Patton then served as a Tank Company Commander in the 3rd
Infantry Division in Germany. He served there for 20 months. It was from Germany that he applied to teach at
Davidson. “I asked to come to Davidson, and there were two reasons involved. One is that I prefer a school
in the South and two because Davidson has an extremely high reputation and I wanted to be a part of
it.” Patton was very impressed with the openness and courtesy of the Davidson students. “They are really honest and cheerful.
Southern hospitality is alive and well at Davidson College.” His only disappointment was and has been that there is no
Master's program at Davidson because he had hoped to attain one in Business.

Professor Russ Warren is a member of the Art faculty and a resident artist. Originally from Texas, he spent two
years at the University of St. Thomas in Houston and then transferred to the University of New Mexico at Albuquerque
to receive his BFA. He painted for two years, a period he called “truly rewarding,” before going to the University
of Texas at San Antonio for his MFA. Warren then taught courses at the University and at San Antonio College
before moving to Florida where he painted in Tampa Bay. He first heard of Davidson through the Davidson Print and
Drawing Society. Warren found Davidson “exciting” and noted that the students are “eager to learn and eager to grasp things
they don’t understand. I hope to generate...”a lot of escapades in the city Department. We invent in communities while he
is at Davidson because he feels it is necessary to remain.

The Physics Department received a new member this year in Professor Lawrence S. Cain. Cain received his undergraduate degree at
Wake Forest and did his Masters and Ph.D. in Physics at the University of Virginia. He spent four years as
a Research Associate and Lecturer at Chapel Hill. His seat here at Davidson is his first full-time faculty position. Lecturing
at Chapel Hill was quite different than teaching at Davidson. “The whole faculty here is only three times larger than
the Physics Department at UNC.” He heard of the opening at Davidson through an ad run in Physics Today, a
popular physics journal. “All teaching jobs must be advertised in some journal that is well read by that field of
education.”

Professor James Swisher, Davidson’s new man in the Music Department, will concentrate on piano studies but he will also teach
other general music courses and work with the chamber music group. Swisher started his study of piano at age five
in Germany and continued his studies through high school at the St. Louis Institute of Music. After high school, Swisher
received both his undergraduate and graduate degrees in music at Yale University. His previous teaching experience includes graduate assistant work
at Yale and a year of teaching at Wesleyan College. Swisher will perform at least two major piano concerts this
year and hopes to play some other more informal concerts.

Michael J. Root, the newest member of the Religion faculty, comes to Davidson from Yale where he earned his Ph.D.
in Religion. Root completed his undergraduate work at Dartmouth College. This is Root’s first year of teaching. When asked why
he chose Davidson he replied that he “wanted to teach at a small liberal arts college that had a good
reputation, that was located in a small town, and that was close to North Carolina.” Davidson obviously qualified.

A new member of the Chemistry faculty, but certainly no stranger to Davidson, is Professor Benjamin C. Garrett, who graduated
from Davidson in 1971. He received his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Emory University in 1975. He has spent the last
three years in the army, fulfilling the ROTC obligation he acquired while at Davidson. He will be at Davidson for
one year, primarily teaching Chemistry 21. Garrett sees some definite changes in life at Davidson, the most notable being the
admission of women. He sees this as a “pleasant change” in a social sense stating, “I was here for three
years without a car, which made dating very difficult.” Another change he noted is the abolishment of mandatory ROTC.

Professor Lani Burnett is the newest member of the Psychology faculty. She received her BA in Psychology at Clemson and
has just completed her work for her Masters degree in Clinical Psychology at UNC-G. While in school, she specialized in
the Child Development Cognate Area of Psychology. She was also a teaching assistant while at UNC-G. For enjoyment, Burnett likes
ballets, drama, reading, and kids. She has not decided yet if she will stay in the field of Clinical Psychology
and go for her doctorate, or if she will go into the area of child development.

SHOWCASE DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR
All Single LP’s $4.99
8 Tracks $5.99
182 N. Main, Mooresville, NC.
On Hwy. 21 in Cornelius, N.C. (1 mile South of Piedmont Bank)
EASTERN STYLE B.B.Q.
SEAFOOD
Thurs.-Sat. 11am
Phone 892-3362
