The Davidsonian
February 24, 1978

Village Store expands ‘enjoyable art’ service
By BETH LAWING
Staff Writer

The business started as a sideline interest at the Village Store. Out of it has grown the Copeland House, a
commercial art gallery on Main St. About two years ago, Village Store owner Taylor Blackwell decided to expand his offerings
to include prints and a framing service. This year, “pleased with the growth of the business at the store,” Blackwell
leased the Copeland House and opened what he believes to be the only commercial gallery in North Mecklenburg County.

“It can best meet the needs of the community in its own location...we didn’t have the space in the store,”
Blackwell said. “The community will help us define a lot of what we'll be. We hope to reflect the tastes
and needs of the community as we develop,” he said.

With this development, and the space afforded by the new gallery, the framing service under the supervision of Susan Abbott
is being expanded. In addition, the selection of prints and limited editions has expanded. A new attraction of the gallery,
perhaps its main feature, will be the showing of local artists’ work. “We are interested in representing North Carolina and
art in the area,” says Blackwell. “We hope to carry a good strong representative of local artwork.”

Blackwell plans to have the first show in conjunction with a grand opening. “The date has not been set, but
we anticipate it to be in early spring when the gallery is filled out...so folks can enjoy it more.”

Enjoyment—Blackwell sees this as an important consideration in buying art. He encourages buying something really likeable, not what is considered
‘good art.’ “If you really enjoy a piece—buy it,” he says. “If it appreciates in value, great, you've made an
investment. If it doesn't, you still have something you like. You don't lose anything.”

Blackwell also believes “a picture must provide an emotional experience for it to be art to that person.” And in
considering the diversity of tastes the gallery serves, he comments: “No two people bring the same personality, the same experience,
to a piece of art. And, if it’s effective for them, they won't take away the same thing they brought
to it.”

Although Blackwell sees art critics as “helpful in placing a piece in relation to other works,” you don’t have to
be one to enjoy and appreciate art. The gallery has a diversified and ever-growing selection, and “if we don’t have
something, we'll order it,” says Blackwell. “We stock as we find the need...the emphasis is again on the community need.”

Some gems redeem
By ROBERT PAYNE
Staff Writer

January and February are usually slow months for the record companies after the glut of Christmas releases, but a few
gems have come out recently. Here are four albums rated on a 0-4 scale (just like grades except without inflation).

George Benson: Weekend in L.A. - To follow up the success of his last two tries, Benson has put out
a double live album. With many rock acts, liveliness is needed to capture the intensity of their performance, but with
Benson's cool jazz rock fusion one wonders if a live album is really necessary. In any case, Weekend in L.A.
makes a good introduction to George Benson. He's backed by a stellar band and the music breezes along with clear
crisp precision. Rating: 2.5

Steeleye Span: Storm Force Ten - The England-based Steeleye remains an obscure group in America though they...

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons. But we don’t preach. A sermon is one thing you'll never hear. At
Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you
a sermon is one of them.At Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. What you will hear are some
straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service
in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can
help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for prenatal care and adoption services,
infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. CALL US AT 377-0841. Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte.

Mrs. Susan Abbott, wife of the English professor, pauses as she demonstrates how a frame is assembled. Abbott is in
charge of the New Copeland House Gallery on Main Street. [David Litaker]

This dry recording season 951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.

Steeleye Span have had tremendous success in Europe. They are one of the folk/rock groups that sprung up when Bob
Dylan went electric. Steeleye, though, finds their roots in traditional English folk preserved in sources like the Childe Ballads. They
take these traditional songs in toto and add electric backing, making a music that fuses old and new. With this
particular album, Steeleye has undergone a personnel change, losing guitarist Bob Johnson and fiddler Peter Knight, while picking up Martin
Carthy and accordionist John Kirkpatrick. As a result, Steeleye’s music has changed radically, returning to a more “folky” sound than
the rock which they had veered towards recently. Martin Carthy adds tremendously to Steeleye’s already excellent vocalists Tim Hart and
Maddy Prior. Hearing the three of them harmonize on a song such as “Sweep Chimney” brings a chill to the
spine. Ultimately, though, this album does not live up to my high expectations. The fault is not in the band,
but in the material. After ten albums, Steeleye is simply running out of good traditional material and their arrangements of
it seem to lack imagination. The band seems to realize this and is making an effort to compose on their
own. In sum, this is not a bad album, it is just not Steeleye Span's best effort. Rating: 3.0.

Warren Zevon - Excitable Boy - Warren Zevon is a singer/songwriter in the Jackson Browne mold, but with a decidedly
bizarre streak in him. At times he can be the sensitive, introspective songwriter on cuts like “Veracruz” and “Accidentally Like
a Martyr.” Or he can be absolutely demented on songs like “Excitable Boy” or “Werewolves of London,” the album's funniest
song: “Well I saw a werewolf drinking a pina colada at Trader Vic's/his hair was perfect.” These two sides to
Zevon make this album constantly entertaining and refreshing. It doesn't hurt that Zevon is backed by the likes of Jackson
Browne, Mick Fleetwood, John McVie, and Linda Ronstadt. A friend told me that Zevon “out Randy Newmans” Randy Newman. Need
I say more? Rating: 4.0.

Joni Mitchell - Don Juan's Reckless Daughter - On this album, Joni Mitchell continues her progression toward a jazz-folk style
begun on Hissing of Summer Lawns and continued on last year’s Hejira. If lush jazz instrumentation was the foundation on
Mitchell's last albums, percussion is the key on Don Juan's. Most of the songs set up a rhythm, often complex,
and Mitchell's vocals provide the melody in what often sounds like free-form improvisation. Mitchell's lyrics stress, as always, her search
for love and identity: “Maybe I'm just kidding myself when I say I love you/I don't know/loving without trusting you/I
wish I felt nothing.” They reflect a maturity and vision not often found in any music. Perhaps most important is
how well the lyrics are wed to the music. It seems that Mitchell has found the music to match her
vision. Rating: 4.0.
