September 15, 1978 The Davidsonian

Big sisters join little sisters
by SALLY SUMMEY

"I can't wait to meet her... wonder what she's like?" For some forty or more upperclass women, the first days back at school were made even more exciting by the thrill of meeting a very special friend. Then, on Monday night, over 200 Davidson females gathered together in Chambers Art Gallery to meet with other Big Sister/Little Sister pairs.

Last spring the Big Sister/Little Sister program was organized by Kathy Howard, Sara Stoneburner, Elizabeth Dean, and Laura Michael in hopes of providing a way for freshman girls to meet upperclassmen and vice versa. "So often, freshman women get to know only the friends of their hall counselors. It's hard for upperclass women to get to know freshmen because there is no means of contact with them other than this," said Kathy Howard, an upperclass woman who saw the need for more interaction between freshmen and upperclassmen. She originated the idea of the Big Sister/Little Sister program.

Girls interested in becoming a Big Sister received a letter over the summer containing the name of a freshman girl. It was up to the upperclass women to write to their Little Sisters, offer advice, and welcome them. Big Sisters were then faced with, as one freshman put it, "hilarious questions" that ranged from how the laundry worked to what the campus styles were.

"My Big Sister answered questions like, 'What is a loft?'," said freshman Ann Uyeda. Most transfer students and international students were also given Big Sisters. Several freshman girls were not assigned Big Sisters because we didn't have their names last spring," explained Kathy Howard. "But we certainly have enough Big Sisters to go around. It is now basically up to the individual to get as involved with as much as she wants," commented Kathy Howard.

The continuation of the program next year depends largely on its success this year. "We'll get feedback and responses from participants to see if people want to continue this," said Elizabeth Dean. Girls are urged to get in touch with their Big Sisters and make the most of the opportunity.

By ANN TUTWILER - Staff Writer

The next time you venture to the beer counter at Cashion's Grocery, ask yourself the all-important question: "Why is the blue ribbon on twelve-ounce cans of Pabst beer a lighter shade of blue than the ribbons on the sixteen-ounce cans nearby?" Perhaps you never noticed this discrepancy. Perhaps Stroh's is your preference. Most likely, you do not share my South Georgia redneck heritage.

The Pabst "blues" are part of an all-out, nationwide advertising campaign. In the past, there were over 1700 U.S. brewers. Today, the five largest brewers control sixty-nine percent of the market. Anheuser-Busch and Miller (purchased by Philip Morris in 1969) corner almost forty percent.

Of greatest concern to Davidson is Stroh's replacement of Coors as the fourth largest brewery in the country and the best selling on college campuses. This comes as no surprise, considering the crowd attracted to the 900 Room.Erdman with Kathy Howard if they have lost the name of their little sister, or have not gotten in touch with her yet. Nancy Warren, a sophomore Big Sister, was energetic about the program, “I think it’s a great thing and hope to do it next year if I can!” Her little sister, Amy Windham, concurred. “It really made me feel welcome," smiled Amy.

Drink free beer Davidson campus. But is it actually the preference? Perhaps the taste buds of Davidson students are more attuned to wine. Also, with the new availability of mixed drinks in Mecklenburg County, not to mention the long-standing availability in fraternity and eating houses, perhaps beer will take a back seat to spirituous beverages. The Davidsonian would like to know your drinking preference, to be published two weeks from now. Even if you prefer Diet Pepsi, let us know. Please address responses to Features Editor, The Davidsonian.

The title “Reverend” immediately conjures up images of robes. Somehow, Will Campbell’s carved cane and blue jeans don’t fulfill those expectations. Nor does he want to fulfill them. Campbell began his career much like other ministers, studying at Columbia, Tulane, and Wake Forest Universities. Once out of seminary, he ministered to a parish, but he felt fenced in. He decided to go to the University of Mississippi as a chaplain. There Campbell found that he had even less freedom and so joined the liberal National Conference of Churches. As a member of that institution, Campbell realized why he felt hedged in. Any institution, including the church, has bureaucratic channels. One is free as long as one chooses to work within the existing channels. But Rev. Campbell did not appreciate the structure and did not feel free.

Instead, Campbell chose to throw out the Fundamentalist notion of cataloguing sins and the moral rules of Christianity. In its place, Campbell substituted a more liberal theology; that God cares about people's sufferings. True Christians care and don’t discriminate or hurt people. But when Campbell looked closely at this vein of liberalism, it too became a rejection of grace. And for Campbell, grace is the essence of the Christian message. One tries to live a Christian life but no one is saved by good deeds alone. Many criticize Campbell for his simplicity, but Campbell feels that Christianity can’t be that complicated. As he puts it, “We're all bastards but God loves us anyway.”

Which is no misfortune, or is it? As far as American brewed beers go, American drinkers enjoy a choice of malt products from only forty-five breweries. In a nation where ninety produced availability prior to prohibition, Davidson stands no chance of escape.

SUPPLIES
Office, School

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON
TELEPHONE: (704) 892-8054

Wednesday of last week to Box 218, Davidson. Or, to save postage, place your response in the Features box. 10 am. - 5 pm.