October 27, 1978 (Continued from page 5) - The second common argument against parakeet journalism, as per New York Times style journalism, is the “Williams is not the real world.” I find this argument not only bad but dangerous. It is usually used to justify the secrecy surrounding College disciplinary proceedings, but it has had some unfortunate consequences. Last year, for example, when the library incident occurred, The Record observed this secrecy arrangement and declined to print an account of it. That incident later became the focus of a storm of campus debate. But because no newspaper account was ever printed, that debate was based on hearsay and rumor and not on what actually took place.

That is not a healthy situation, but so long as the College insists on maintaining its secrecy rules, I do not see the secrecy question as a “real” world versus Williams world question at all. I look upon responsible journalists in both worlds as having certain ethical obligations, in particular: 1) to gather facts legitimately, 2) to present them fairly, and 3) to avoid printing information that hurts innocent people. To illustrate the last point, if I were a reporter in my newspaper’s Moscow bureau and I knew who the local CIA agents were, I would not callously assume the public “ought to know” such things because it would needlessly jeopardize lives. Journalistic principles can never be elevated above such practical considerations of who gets hurt by what one chooses to print. The real question regarding the secrecy of disciplinary matters, then, is not whether Williams journalists are any different from “real” world journalists, but whether their reporting on disciplinary matters does more harm than good. There is no need to establish a separate set of standards for college journalists.

In the case of the library incident, The Record certainly had a greater interest in seeing that future discussion of it be informed discussion than it did in hushing the business up for the sole reasons of the college. I think it a healthy sign that the paper has looked to a higher good than that embodied by the College’s tradition of secrecy. The main thing, however, is that it has not merely acted as a propaganda item for the College. In all cases in which The Record finds itself dealing with sensitive topics, I hope it continues to hold true to the highest standards of journalism as embodied by those “real” world papers that practice them. Williams will, I think, be a better school for having an independent and legitimate newspaper since it is not as “unreal” as so many people seem to think.

Not even a Flame Since 1961! Conservation group seeks ways to reduce energy consumption By JIM HAYNES SGA Senator

In spite of its isolation, Davidson, like the rest of the world, has been hit by the energy crisis. Energy costs have jumped 225 percent in the past three years. Members of Conservation on Campus have approached Grover Meetze, director of the physical plant, about ways in which students can help cut down on utilities consumption and, thus, minimize costs. We (members of this conservation group) had hoped to make an in-depth study of college records to find the biggest energy drainers in order to focus conservation efforts. Unfortunately, Mr. Meetze informed us that the College has no way to monitor these things in individual buildings. One meter measures the entire college. In fact, the whole energy system is outdated and inefficient. The highest priority, according to Mr. Meetze, for reducing energy consumption is insulating the steam lines used to heat campus buildings. This would cost in the neighborhood of $250,000—a capital expenditure which, at this time, the College is unable to make. Mr. Meetze is, however, with the help of members of Conservation on Campus, drawing up plans for heating schedules for peak demand times. But to make these efforts effective, students must become more energy conscious. Students can make a direct impact by turning off lights in rooms and bathrooms when no one is inside. Also, where possible, turn off hall lights when it is obvious they are not needed.Not needed. As it becomes colder, and the heating tries to keep windows sealed, the focus on Cain's projects includes:

— Cups at ARA Slater: In the first two weeks of the project, students used only 19,000 cups when they had been averaging 35,000. This resulted in a $158.81 donation to CROP.
— Rusk House and KA have agreed to be responsible for glass recycling.
— Mr. Meetze is in the process of making permanent boxes for recyclable paper on each hall. One person from each hall is responsible for taking the paper to the recycling shed behind Vittle Dorm.
— Soon we should have receptacles for paper in the offices in Chambers.
— Containers for recyclable glass should be on all halls soon. (Buy beer in glass bottles until we get aluminum collections going.)
— Also planned is a system to collect.

With the concerted effort of every responsible individual on campus, we should be able to make a significant reduction in our energy consumption. As freshman David Weitnauer says, “See the light—then turn it off.”

‘Have we acted Christianly toward WDAV?’

To the Editor:

The recent controversy over the control of WDAV has sparked two questions in my mind. First, have Davidson College’s Administration and Trustees acted in the most appropriate manner? I was misled to believe that the station was to be run with the exception that the former station manager Carrington Thompson and the former operations manager Sid Barrett were virtually in daily contact with the Administration when WDAV was preparing to go high power during the second and third terms of the 1978 academic year. Whether or not the ex-staff of WDAV intentionally deceived cannot be said. However, I think it is obvious that what the students proposed was not considered.

In hoping to address the Administration’s proposal, the Executive Committee of the Trustees in their October 16th decision gave control of the station to the College Administration. This decision conflicts directly with the College’s 1976 Constitution which gives programming authority to the station manager and puts WDAV under the control of the Media Board. Therefore, I find the Administration and the Trustees of Davidson College inconsistent with the idea that Davidson College is a Christian Community and should therefore be committed to the ideas of the Christian faith. I challenge the Trustees and Administration to either take to heart their Christian principles and make decisions accordingly or stop working under the auspices of a Christian institution committed to Christian principles.

The Executive Committee’s unwillingness to compromise with the student workers of WDAV gives rise to my second question. Are the opinions of the students taken seriously by the Administration and the Trustees when these opinions oppose the position of the Administration and Trustees? This question is not intended to imply that the students should have complete control of the College. But the students are the major reason for the College’s existence, and I think the students should have more voice in what is done at Davidson. We, the student body, contributed 46 percent to the College’s $9,350,000 '78-'79 budget, but we seem to have the least amount of influence in the decisions made for the College. The only authority the students are given in decision making is that authority that is given to us by the Trustees and the Administration. When our decisions disagree with that of the Trustees (e.g., what should be programmed on WDAV), then our authority is stripped from us, even if it means that the Trustees and the Administration have to break the guidelines of the College's Constitution.

If the Administration and Trustees are to continue to commit themselves to Christian ideals, then all their decisions should not only be governed by what is best for the College. Their decisions should also consider what is the most loving Christian action for all that would be affected, including the student body.

Levis M. Williams '80
Davidson College