Ty Faculty members voice diverse opinions

February 3, 1978

About academic freedom, re-evaluation, and tenure.

By LYMAN COLLINS
Executive Editor

"In the past and up until the present the faculty has not known how tenure decisions are reached and can
only surmise that a procedure exists," said Professor of Spanish Lois Kemp. This sentiment reflects the continued concern expressed by
a number of faculty members regarding the question of tenure.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann has outlined the three main areas of evaluation: professional competence, teaching effectiveness, and
community service. The third criterion has raised the most questions among the untenured faculty.

Community service

As one untenured professor said, "Neither the questions nor the procedure has been cleared up, especially the question of community
service. What do they mean? What are these community criteria?"

"Community service begins at the threshold of the department," explained Zimmermann. "We mean a dimension of community concern, a person
interested in society and the world. We could be dogmatic but we don’t do that," he continued.

Zimmermann went on to say that this service could find expression in many ways such as participation in a faculty
research group, sponsoring a student extracurricular activity, or serving a local church. He added that it was up to the
individuals as to which method they choose to express this community service. "We want people here who have concern for
others and express this concern. Love thy neighbor as thyself?" he said.

Professor Malcolm Lester, chairman of the History Department, said, "As it stands I have no question with the tenure procedure."

Professor of Economics Robert said, "It's almost an insult not to submit the faculty to periodic re-evaluation. I don’t mind
being evaluated. I like to know where I stand."

Kemp echoed these sentiments, "I’m in favor of open classrooms. Members of a department should be encouraged to visit classes
and discuss the effectiveness of teaching techniques."

This criticism with the present standards is by no means universal among tenured or untenured faculty. She said that at
present only the Philosophy Department practices this principle, but she intends to start such a system in the Spanish Department.

Professor Emeritus of Philosophy George Abernethy explained, "All evaluation ought to be a continual process. If a professor's work is
evaluated from the very beginning, it will be more effective."

David Litaker, or personnel actions, said, "As it stands, I have no question with the tenure procedure."

Professor of Psychology John E. Kello said, "I like to know where I stand."

The Faculty Professional Committee is charged with the development of procedures and policies. Such a document has as its subject
the overriding concern of tenure. Traditionally, at the university and the college, tenure decisions have been influenced significantly by the
community and the college, and by the shouldering of appointed responsibilities.

Unfortunately, this has sometimes worked to the disadvantage of those who did not "fit in" to this community. But any
academic society with any claim to eminence must include members who do not fit into conventional molds. I would favor
making tenure appointments only on the basis of intellectual and academic promise, as evidenced in teaching and scholarship. And I
would favor raising the standards of tenure in this area.

My other conviction is that tenure decisions should be made only after an evaluation of the faculty member’s performance by
a faculty committee. This, unfortunately, has never been the procedure followed at Davidson. As a result, decisions have sometimes been
made which seemed to reflect considerations more personal than professional. I am firmly of the opinion that faculty members are
the best qualified judges of a colleague’s academic promise and achievement, and that they should take the lead in these
evaluations.The responsibility, onerous as it often is, of making tenure recommendations. Such a faculty committee should, of course, include the
Academic Vice President and the President, both of whom, at Davidson, are members of the teaching faculty. It should also
have access to the evaluations of the department chairman, other senior faculty members, and students. It might also consult scholars
outside the college. But the faculty should not willingly entrust the task of making a professional judgment to any other
agency than a body made up of its own members. The Commission on Academic Tenure also commented in 1973: "In
some institutions an effort is made to assist the young faculty member to develop as a teacher and scholar; in
many, the young teacher is given virtually no assistance or information about his strengths or shortcomings until the time of
final decision on reappointment." Here again, Davidson seems to be in the second category. All too often neither the department
chairman nor the Academic Vice President has offered help and encouragement to the younger faculty member in a way which
would lead to the improvement expected by the time of a tenure decision. The college is generous in providing funds
for summer study and research and for attending professional meetings. But personal support offered to a younger colleague by an
older one can be even more effective in developing a mature and humane scholar and teacher. Avinger, Dean of the
Center for Special Studies added, "At the moment I’m not too concerned about academic freedom. We don’t have the situation
now we had during radical unrest, the Red Scare, and Vietnam. The question of academic freedom is not a pressing
one, yet it's something that you don’t want to forget about."

Faculty Evaluation

Closely tied to the tenure question is the issue of faculty evaluation. "Within the faculty there is a general reluctance
to be scrutinized, evaluated, to be looked on by your peers. Yet a good system would really necessitate it," explained
Avinger. Some of the untenured faculty place the blame for this reluctance by the faculty to have a hand in
evaluation and tenure decisions squarely on the shoulders of the senior professors. "Once you’re tenured you don’t need to worry
about it," one professor said. "The senior faculty seems to be rather apathetic. It’s a hard decision to make and
it's much easier to pass it off on the big bad administration and then we can hate them for it.
It’s human nature to pass the buck on up, but I think the faculty ought to have a hand in
it." Professor of Psychology, John Kello indicated his willingness to be evaluated. "It’s almost an insult not to submit the
faculty to periodic evaluation. From the beginning, it helps him to become a better teacher, to develop him into the
kind of person who could get tenure."

Communication

One untenured professor pinpointed Davidson's main problem like this, "the problem at Davidson is a lack of communication. The administration
is hesitant and uneasy about being frank and candid with either faculty or students. It’s much easier for the administration
to send out a memo than to discuss it personally." Zimmermann answered this complaint, "Any faculty member who wants to
communicate with me or Dr. Spencer is not only free to come but encouraged to come by and see us."
Kello summarized faculty frustration about tenure, "At Davidson tenure has been given almost automatically in the past. I think that
the administration feels this. Dr. Zimmermann feels this. But there are always some difficulties. One has to be careful when
things are being changed that everyone understands the goals." College President Samuel R. Spencer Jr. attempted to allay faculty questions
about the tenure policy. "When there is a new dean and until there has been enough experience with that person,
there is bound to be uncertainty, but as decisions are made and a pattern emerges the questions can be laid
to rest," he concluded.
