May 5, 1978
The Davidsonian

Women's IMAC Report

BB&H disclose women’s sports shady aide am to play sports, Ms. Freidan, His second point is to abolish up and said, “Come on y’all, mention his name, so here it Staff Writers who will speak on “Women in all of the girl’s IMAC require- cheer up, we gave it the old ‘Mike Sheridan.” Every year Bad Bernard and Hogman take an in-depth look at girl’s sports here at DC, and then follow up with a full report on which players and teams are doing the best. We would like to humbly apologize to all our readers for waiting so long to complete this study, and we want to especially thank the female readers for their patience. A lot of people would have blown their “cool” and would have written a nasty letter to the editor, but not Davidson girls—they have too much class.

This has been pretty much of an up and down year for Girl’s IMAC sports at Davidson. The flickerball season was particularly exciting as a record number of teams forfeited out of the league in the first week of the season. Basketball season was quite a shock... two teams actually made it to the finals of the tournament without forfeiting out or having hair appointments. Softball season, unfortunately, has turned out similar to the flickerball season with the old problem of too many teams and not enough players. It seems that this has turned into a serious problem and several solutions have been proposed to get the coeds out of the kitchens and back to the IMAC fields.

According to nationally known feminist Betty Freidan, we (the IMAC office) should provide incentives for the girls to play sports. Ms. Freidan, who will speak on “Women in Chains: A Study of Davidson IMAC Sports” Monday night, feels that if premiums and various prizes were awarded to girls that showed up to two games in a row the problem would be all but solved. His second point is to abolish all of the girl’s IMAC requirements, making them optional, while at the same time offering them more useful courses in a new department—Home Economics. Finally, on special occasions, the girls will have a chance to have parties on the IMAC fields. There will also be bake-offs.

“We had success at Williams College with the same problem by offering cosmetics (lipstick and eye shadows) to the first ten girls on the field every day.” Sterling Martin, nationally known IMAC enthusiast, offers what might be a better solution to this most disturbing problem. He proposes a three-point solution. One, at the beginning of the year every girl will be given an IMAC number. On M, W, F the girls with even numbers will report to field one for a softball game. On Tuesdays and Thursdays, the odd-numbered girls will come. Hopefully, through this method, there will be enough girls to play a game every day.

Improved Trackmen

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

Everything clicked for the Wildcats last weekend as Davidson scored 43 points and placed 6th in the Southern Conference Track and Field Championships held at Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia. A plethora of personal bests were registered, and the team, in defeating The Citadel and UT-Chattanooga and losing to 5th place Western by 1 point, did better than anyone dared hope.

The two-day meet began on Friday morning, and Getty Felder started things off with a 3rd in the 10,000 with a school record time of 30:50.9. The senior ran with the leaders for four miles but developed stomach cramps and could not maintain the pace in the final laps. Jerry Taylor also performed solidly and garnered a 3rd in the Hammer (45 meters). Svend Pedersen surprised everyone by flinging the javelin 180' 11", 12' over his previous best, to finish 5th. Doug Horn’s effort in the steeplechase, although not particularly artistic, was good enough for 6th place and 1 point. The junior experienced a marked difficulty with the barriers during the race and reached a definite nadir on the last lap when he slipped going into the water barrier, smacked into the wooden beam, and had no alternative other than to ignominiously clamber over the top, slosh through the water, and resume the race.

Meanwhile, Phil Gilbert’s 22-5 placed fourth in the long jump and several Wildcats had qualified in the sprint and hurdle trials. Friday ended with Davidson in 5th place with 19 points, and the squad, after an intensive carbo-loading session (i.e. the consumption of record quantities of pizza and ice cream), had good reason to be optimistic about its chances in the next day’s events.

Saturday began with a sixth place from the 440-yard relay team of Gilbert, Robert Alston, Terrazzo Wallace, and Dick Jones. Horn then blitzed the equivalent of a 4:16 mile and finished sixth in the 1500 in a school record 3:59.03. Freshman Greg Bernard did not place but ran a personal best of 4:12. Alston’s 3rd place (11.02) in the 100 meters must have been an unpleasant surprise for opposing coaches, as none of them could have even heard of him before the meet.A powerful freshman joined the team two weeks before the championships and proceeded to impress. We think both of the solutions are excellent ideas and should be incorporated immediately. The IMAC tournament has gotten underway, and several big upsets have already been reported. The Old Men, our number 5 team going into the tournament, were rudely awakened by The Cavenaugh Kids. After the game, The Old Men, with their heads sadly down in their hands, were seen heading down to the welfare office to collect their social security checks. Disco Dave Shi, one of the youngsters of the team, looked poised to demolish nearly everyone he faced. Alston placed 4th in the 200 in 21.77 shortly thereafter, and Gilbert, who had qualified for the finals by virtue of an acrobatic lean at the tape in the semi-finals, placed 6th in 22.35. Pinckney ran another superb race in the 5000 and placed 3rd in yet another school record time of 14:33.88. Jones ran an impressive 55.12 to finish 4th in the 440 intermediate hurdles, and the relay team of Wallace, Horn, and Jones placed sixth in 3:26.22, another season's best. Overall, Coach Karl Kremser’s team had a much-improved season, finishing 6-1 and setting school records in 5 events. The season is not entirely over, however, as the Bill “Geek” Gaynor Invitational Mile Run is slated for Friday afternoon at 4:00 p.m. The Geek has vowed to break the elusive 5-minute barrier in the mile, and a large number of his teammates will be pacing him. Coach Norm Koller, who will be attempting to defeat the Geek, and M’tata, the ridiculous team dog, are also entered. Dr. David Grant has been elected “Miss Geek Invitational” for 1978 and will be timing the event. Refreshments will be served immediately after the race, and everyone is encouraged to come out to help pace or cheer the Geek on.

Presto’s Grill continues to be plagued by their inconsistent play. Jack Griffeth, team captain, mused after the game, “I just can’t understand it. Sometimes we go out and play well and we win. Other times we go out and play bad and we end up losing.” Presto’s nipped the lads from Dartus Tunic and then let it go to their heads as they dropped a game to the Whizz Kids in the second round of the tourney. Dartus Tunic, behind my great play, continues to roll and looks as if it won't lose until it gets beaten again. We would like to congratulate Dave Williams, who was awarded Fly Beta Kappa at a private ceremony last week. Also, be sure and vote for Phil G. for UMOC. The SAEs set a new IMAC record last week as they scored 24 runs in one inning. A coed was heard saying after the game, “I don’t see what the big deal is, I had 30 runs in one of my stockings after a game.” The E Baggers also sent 30 men to the plate in that famous inning. Mike, I want a green bike. Sheridan wanted us to know that for just $400, $430 from Chicago, return tickets are good for a full year. Fares are subject to change. Book anytime.

The Lizard Kickers have risen from out of nowhere (maybe the SPE house) to become a major factor in the IMAC softball tourney. Bernie and Hogman feel that they could either win or lose, but look for them to do one of the two. MacFleet and Stuff continues to win despite their inadequate talent and mediocre groupies. John Ratliff is still one of the weirdest looking people we have ever seen, and we question just how good a softball player he is. In the volleyball world, the outspoken group of nerds that call themselves Slauol have added 14 more players to their roster to bring them to the grand total of 37 players. Team spokesman Graeme Thompson said that “this is a new strategy. If there is no room for the ball to land on our side of the court, then we can never lose a point.” Good luck, Graeme. The Bong’s Last Chance is still undefeated behind the great play of ferocious Lou Ortmayer. Rumor has it that Clayton Rogers might get the Most Improved Player trophy at the upcoming volleyball banquet. BL—Isn’t it hard to play dunk ball at night? Later.

In the middle of the European Continent, where you'll be just hours away by train from Europe's most famous landmarks. So take a travel tip from Iceland's favorite bird. Learn to fly Icelandic. See your travel agent. Or write Dept. #352, Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, N.Y. 11552. Call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area. Roundtrip 14-45 day APEX fare from N.Y. $400. Roundtrip Youth Fare. Good through age 23. Icelandic to Europe $375 from Chicago. Tickets must be reserved 30 days prior to departure and paid for within 8 days of reservation. APEX fare effective June 1, 1978.