April 28, 1978 The Davidsonian ...faculty discuss evaluation procedure (Continued from page 1)

There is a question as to whether evaluation forms are the best way to gather student opinion at all, remarked Zimmermann.

During the meeting, a newspaper clipping concerning the value of student evaluation was passed around and submitted to the PAC. The article reports the results of a study correlating teacher evaluation with how much the student learned based upon testing. The correlation was highly negative (-.75) and as the experiments put it, “Students rate most highly those instructors from whom they learned least.”

There was a concern voiced about the role of the untenured faculty in the evaluation process and how this is expressed in the code, said Zimmermann. “Some junior faculty members expressed that the untenured faculty need a more defined role. Others said the untenured faculty role should be limited in some respects.”

Professor of German Hansford Epes pointed out that although untenured faculty members may not be excluded from the evaluation process, their input is not specifically guaranteed by the document. Professor of Sociology Norman B. Koller noted that while student input into the evaluation process is defined, that of junior faculty members is not. He termed the code “a very inhibiting document for untenured faculty.”

“Some faculty members argued that younger professors just out of graduate school may be better acquainted with the field,” said Wolf. The suggestion that “untenured faculty members may not be as stale as some faculty who have been here a while” was also brought up, he continued.

Wolf cited a faculty question as “to what extent it is prying into a private life if the college tries to evaluate a person’s ethical and moral values?” Some professors thought the code was too idealistic. Zimmermann countered, “You set down your ideals and hope that putting down what you’re striving for will help the realization of these goals.”

Maydole commented, “The Code talks a lot about the high morals of the faculty without any spelling out of what those high ideals are. I think that’s dangerous. If they’re going to talk with that kind of language, then there ought to be a Bill of Rights appended to it.”

Maydole continued, “The code lays the burden of proof entirely on the candidate. There’s no statement in it about how to go about demonstrating that.” Zimmermann noted that the code deals with intangibles, which are very difficult to measure. Professor of Classics Mark I. Davies queried, “How can you be very precise about ethical and moral matters?”

“Some members of the faculty expressed a concern that the code should stick to procedures and should not go into the philosophical background of what teaching is all about,” said Zimmermann. Davies observed, “As soon as you come out with a philosophical statement instead of just a strict procedural outline dealing with the evaluation of people, it is bound to create a good deal of tension. I think that’s very healthy, very good.”

Kimmel cited several other problems with the code. “There are six points for evaluation,” he said. “There’s no indication of what relative weights are given to different skills and competencies.”

“I’d like to see priorities. I imagine they'll develop as we go along,” he added. Kimmel also expressed concern over the role of department chairmen as outlined in the document. “The power the chairman ought to have is being too closely invested in the Vice President for Academic Affairs’ Office (VPAA) at all levels—hiring, appointment, and tenure,” he explained. “The department chairman looks more like a paper pusher than having any major influence.”

In regards to the document as a whole, Kimmel stated, “It’s nice to have on paper, but it’s...unworkable to have the VPAA doing the evaluating by himself. “It’s impossible to do. Even if the VPAA didn’t have anything else to do, he wouldn’t have enough time for all that’s spelled out, specifically faculty evaluation,” he explained. Zimmermann noted that some faculty found statements in evaluation criterion six that were incongruous. “They are grouped together; it’s quite true,” he admitted. Zimmermann picked an example: “‘consideration for others’ is followed by ‘building library resources.’” Other points which required clarification during the meeting included ‘physical vigor,’ ‘international outlook,’ ‘support of established faculty policies,’ and ‘strict confidentiality.’

“The procedure was intended to be broad. People are looking at it specifically, and rightly,” remarked Wolf. “It’s basically a good document,” asserted Professor of English Georgianna Zeigler. “Most of the problems are of phrasing and interpretation which need to be worked out. The document tends to indicate the distinction Davidson wants to make; we don’t hire just for professional standards, but for a well-rounded person.”

Kimmel approved the emphasis on scholastic events. He also likes “the emphasis on evaluation at all levels with respect to stimulating faculty development before and after tenure.” According to Koller, “The basis for faculty tenure and promotion has been in the past a hocus-pocus type of thing. It’s good to institute a procedure. It’s a step forward.”

Ten written statements of opinion on the code have been given to the PAC, said Wolf, “with a promise of more to come.” “When the PAC gets a clear idea of what the faculty wants, we can sit down and discuss it,” said Zimmermann. As a result of Tuesday’s discussion, Zimmermann sees “some things need revising and reworking. I haven’t seen any fundamental changes,” he said.

“This is the second draft of the code,” said Wolf. “I can promise that there will be a third and I can contemplate that there will be a tenth.” Wolf anticipated that a formal statement of the code will be completed by the fall. “It depends on how fast the faculty procedure moves,” explained Zimmermann. “It’s best not to hurry. There’s no real deadline we face.” Zimmermann expressed that “at some point it will be desirable to have student and community input.” He projected that there will be a joint meeting with the SGA, the PAC, and himself. No such meeting is yet scheduled.

“The way people are evaluated,” said Wolf, “depends in part on who is sitting in the chair of the VPAA. We have a new man in that position and the code reflects his ideas. I think he’s straightforward and wants to let people know where he stands without writing a document so narrow that there’s no room for diversity.” Koller commented, “It’s a good document in principle, with a couple of big exceptions, but the whole thing runs on faith in the administration.” Koller emphasized that “the spotlight is on the faculty code of evaluation. People are watching. Things are rather tentative at the moment.”

THIS SUMMER

It's simple. Just call, write, or come by the bank and request a wildcat vacation account. When you take off for the summer leave $1 or more in your account and it will be ready for use again when you return in September. Just give us a call and we will take your account off vacation when you return. Your personalized checks will still be good and best of all NO SERVICE CHARGE while your account is on ‘vacation’. Of course, if you plan on using your checking account this summer you won't need a vacation account. At PIEDMONT BANK, we do more for our customers. “WE CARE.”

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER FDIC

WILDCATS, LEAVE A LITTLE OF YOURSELF BEHIND