February 10, 1978
The Davidsonian: Opinion

Sears
By BOB MORRISON
Guest Columnist
[Second in a series]

In recent years probably no bipartisan treaties have ever had as much exposure to the American public as the two
new Panama Canal Treaties. White House and State Department officials have expended a large amount of time and energy to
"sell" the treaties to the public. Perhaps some day a book will be written, entitled The Selling of a Treaty,
parodying the famous book about the Nixon campaign, The Selling of a President. Yet, I think the American public has
received, and reacted with, a limited and generally uninformed perspective. Frankly, I have not been satisfied with the State Department’s
diplomatic procedures for a number of reasons...

Letter to the Editor

First, the atmosphere surrounding the negotiations has not been positive. I can only speculate why the State Department has negotiated
under a cloud of guilt and fear. Three reasons come to my mind: (a) the State Department presently feels that
there has been an injustice on their part to Panama in 1903; (b) the State Department fears another Vietnam-style war
will erupt in Panama if the treaties are not signed (I do not believe Panama, unaided by another power, could
sustain a war militarily or economically); and (c) the State Department fears not being liked in Hispanamerica, and therefore, not
being sought for aid. This fear is not unfounded for Torrijos is an opportunistic dictator who has already been visited
by Soviet economic and commercial delegates.

Executive Balks

Second, the American public is not guilty of procrastinating adoption of these treaties for 13 years; the executive branch is.
Former President Johnson made the first commitment to Panama in 1964 when he said that the United States was willing
to negotiate “an entirely new treaty on the existing Panama Canal.” This “new” treaty was ready in 1967, but was
rejected by Torrijos, as I mentioned in my first article. The present treaties have only been under negotiation for the
past seven years. Also, the decision to abrogate the 1903 treaty was made, without any consent of the Senate, by
then Secretary of State Henry Kissinger in 1974. Thus, there has been confusion as to which branch of the government
is responsible for initiating negotiations on a new treaty. It is my understanding that the Subcommittee on Separation of Powers
leaned toward believing the responsibility for negotiating a Canal treaty rested with the Senate, while the Committee on Foreign Relations
believed it rested within, initially, the powers of the executive branch. This problem is related to the next.

Third, a debate continues as to whether the United States presently exercises sovereignty by treaty or by territorial right. The
State Department argues for the former, citing Supreme Court cases that pertained to Indian land claims. On the other hand,
some senators believe that the United States has the legal right to claim territorial sovereignty due to former Supreme Court
cases which have referred to the Canal Zone as U.S. territory. I would support these senators because I be-

Reply needs some qualifications

To the Editor:

I was profoundly interested in reading in The Davidsonian the opinions expressed on the Middle East by Youssef Abagui. I
was also interested in Schleifer’s answer to that article although this answer, I think, needs some qualifications.

Spoils of war

First: “Throughout history a victor in a war has been allowed to keep the lands it won,” writes Schleifer. I
think that, on the one hand, if the Israelis have the same idea, then peace is unattainable. On the other
hand, to nurse such a platitude would justify the actions of Hitler while he was the winner. It supposes the
arbitrary right of the dictators over their “subjects.” In this way South African apartheid, for example, would be the practice
of this ius utendi et abutendi (The right of use and abuse), of winner over loser.

Rampant racism

Second: Schleifer feels offended by Abagui’s parallels between Zionism and Nazism. In my opinion, if the U.N. decisions condemning Zionism
as racism are justified, then the comparison is obvious. Furthermore, the Jewish notion of being God’s chosen people is another
form of the concept of racial superiority, especially when applied against the notion of gentiles. It makes no difference that
the Christian religions are heirs to this concept; they too are racist. For example, what is the meaning of the
Catholic notion (prior to the second Vatican Council) of “being in the mystic body of Christ?” Because in addition to
the separated churches such as the Greek Orthodox or Lefevre, there are sinners, the excommunicated like all Protestants and pagans--all
of whom are outside of God’s truth.

Another holocaust

Third and last: I think it is deplorable to talk about the Middle East without talking about the Palestinian problem.
This problem is patent and easily forgotten. It is very easy to forget the Palestinians while we speculate on the
holocaust suffered by the Jews through history. It is true that Jews have suffered. For example, the Jews were expelled
from Spain in 1492; burned alive from the16th century to the 19th by the Holy Inquisition; denied the right to
practice their religion in Spain until 1953; despised and vilified in Europe and, finally, reviled and immolated through the designs
of satanic madmen... But now Zionist Jews themselves are pursuing and executing people. The massacres in the villages of Der
Yasin (1967) and Kufr Qasim (1968) have passed into history as evidence of persecution by Jews. Samih al Qasim, an
important Palestinian who took his name from that razed village, says that now the hangmen are the sons of those
Jews burned in Auschwitz. This, too, is true. Palestinians are being pursued, persecuted, and killed in Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan
by the constant razzias of the sons of Judah. This is the other holocaust.

Pandora’s box

Schleifer adds in his answer that “The Israelis have already taken one desert and made it a decent place to
live.” Like many of Schleifer’s statements, this one is dangerous because it carries within it the yeast of the extermination
of the Palestinians. No. The Israelis did not make the desert into a decent place to live. It was the
Jewish bankers and financiers in New York and elsewhere who made it possible. Furthermore, this desert turned into a paradise
may become a Pandora’s Box for Palestinians if the western world is hypnotized by the siren’s sounds of the kibbutzim
which smell of US Jewish dollars and Palestinian blood.

Last Resort

Yes, blood of terrorists but terrorists who have no other means of defending themselves than urban and international guerilla action.
(I think the problem of guerilla bands needs more attention than stupid lamentations over their destructiveness. For example, for the
Basques in northern Spain, terrorism was the only way to respond to the terrorism of Franco’s police.)

No monopoly

Terrorism is definitely not a monopoly of the Palestinians. Does Schleifer remember who killed Count Bernadotte on September 17, 1948,
in Jerusalem? It was not Palestinians or Arabs but Jews. Whoever is free of sin can pitch the first rock.
In conclusion, I commend Schleifer for his intention to voice “open-minded opinions” as he describes them. But I think qualifications
are necessary for this sort of assertion.

Ignacio J. Lopez
International Siucou (Spain)

Public receives limited view of Canal

I believe we have legally acquired most, if not all, of the land the Canal Zone occupies. Many are not
aware that the majority of this land has been purchased by Congress at a cost of $165 million through a
Joint Land Commission of both governments. The purchasing procedures of this Commission are spelled out under Article VI of the
1903 treaty. The sole record of these purchases rests not within the Congressional archives, but within the small District Courthouse
in the Canal Zone. If the land is territory of the United States, then the House must be involved in
the process of ratification, as well as the Senate, since they are responsible for the transferal of U.S. territory.

Showy signing

Fourth, many who witnessed the signing of the treaties without being fully informed on the content may have thought the
United States was signing an agreement with the entire hemisphere. Extending an invitation to 26 heads of state was not
necessary for the signing of this treaty between Panama and the United States. I see it as a propagandizing move
by Carter in his personal attempt to sell the treaties. I wish the treaties could speak for themselves. Rejection of
these treaties would be extremely embarrassing to the President and the State Department, and would “severely undercut President Carter’s authority
and influence in foreign affairs” (Dr. Abraham Lowenthal, in Sunday’s Observer). (You may not be aware that most of these
heads of state had not seen a copy of the entire text of the treaties prior to their arrival in
Washington.)

Future treaties

Some Panamanians think the United States is acting like a pendejo, or a “damn fool,” by making as many concessions
as they have with a military dictator who does not represent the needs of the people. My dissatisfaction with the
diplomatic procedures goes beyond these few points. I am also concerned with the procedures of future treaties. You will not
obtain the impression I have of the negotiations of the treaties merely by listening to any of the already slanted
major news agencies. My impressions come primarily from the hearings held before Senate committees within the past year, and secondarily
from my conversations with individuals within the Canal Zone and Panama who have spoken with both senators and State Department
officials. Next week I would like to point to some problems in the first treaty, and explain why I believe
Panama needs a new treaty.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them
by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week's
issue.
