as 6 Eee tay ee The Davidsonian April 14, 1978

Colorful croquet team frolics across green

By JOHN DAVIS and BRUCE HOLLIDAY, Staff Writers

Years from now, when the fond memories of the parties, dances, and parting events of Spring Frolics weekend have long
since faded, the vivid recollection of the excitement, color, and pageantry of the First Annual Davidson College Croquet Tournament will
linger on. The culmination of several minutes of planning by Union Games Committee chairman Minor Sinclair, the match was one
of those rare magical moments in sports unquestionably destined for immortality.

At 2:00 pm the five finalists gathered on the faultlessly manicured green in front of Chambers. Each had won his
qualifying round the day before. Several of the more fashionable contestants, well-versed in the etiquette of croquet, appeared in traditional
attire. Bruce Holliday, an experienced golfer and the pre-match favorite, arrived dressed in a vintage 1920's golf cap, dress white
shirt, tie, tennis shorts, brilliant knee-length yellow stockings, and white suede shoes. Dark horse Greg Zeph, appearing in a tweed
coat, knickers, and red suspenders, drew numerous whispers from the gallery. Ollie Keen, a Rusk scholar and widely feared opponent
because of his rumored experience on the London Circuit, was unrecognizable in blue jeans and mirror shades. Although barefoot, Keen
carried a conspicuous pair of black high-top sneakers, which, as he explained in an ominous tone, were reserved for “knocking
away” opponents. Rounding out the field were upstart freshmen Peter Jordan and John Davis, who were evidently little concerned with
decorum as they unabashedly attended in T-shirts and cut-offs.

Tournament official Sinclair led a brief conference on the regulations governing play. Sinclair is, not coincidentally, the author of the
definitive handbook of croquet rules used in the qualifying rounds. Containing four or five obscure directives, the spirit of the
document is summed up in the final line, “Bluff all other rules.”

The match commenced and Holliday immediately took command by blazing through the first three wickets on his initial turn. Keen,
using his curious between-the-legs stroke, was solidly in second, as the less experienced players floundered in the rear. Then Davis
bumped Keen with an extraordinary and uncharacteristically accurate shot, and proceeded to knock the Britisher off the green and onto
the pavement; the ball eventually coming to rest underneath a small wrought-iron bench adjacent to the Snack Bar. From this
point, Keen never again threatened the leaders, as he continually found himself hitting great recovery shots from off the green
only to be knocked away again in the ensuing round.

By 2:30, a small but vocal gallery had assembled and lent support to Holliday as he methodically worked his way
through the course. Although one foursome rapidly became bored and formed an irreverent bridge game in the rough near the
middle stake, a loyal band consisting of students, townspeople, neighborhood children, and a dog provided polite pitter-patter golf applause, appropriate
“oohs” and “aahs,” and television commentary in whispered English accents as Holliday advanced. The crowd also acted in an advisory
capacity, helping with mallet and shot selection and continually correcting players when they inadvertently used the word “wickets” in place
of the correct term “hoops.”

Greg Zeph, finding himself 8 wickets behind, made a decision which was to have a profound effect on the outcome
of the tournament: he knocked his ball to the far end of the course and waited for Holliday. Realizing that
he had no chance to overtake the leader, Zeph was instead hoping to knock Holliday’s ball when he came around
on the last leg, thereby preventing an uncontested win. The game suddenly grew tense as Holliday cautiously approached the final
stake, not wanting to come within knocking range of Zeph. Davis, several wickets behind Holliday, soon came up and added
to the milieu around the last two hoops. Then Ollie made the shot of the match. Thirty yards away at
the other end of the course (having just returned to the green from another knockingaway,) the Englishman meticulously lined up
a long shot and whacked. The ball sped two-thirds the length of the green, narrowly rolled between Zeph and Davis,
and barely nicked Holliday’s as it came to rest. The crowd exploded into incredulous applause as Ollie strode up, carefully
laced on his “knocking” shoes, set up the shot, and sent Holliday’s ball halfway to the infirmary. Davis now had
an opportunity to win it all, but blew the second hoop and was knocked into the corner by a vengeful
Keen on the next round. Meanwhile, Peter Jordan had been patiently plugging along, and suddenly was in good position to
get to the stake. He maneuvered through both hoops but then missed a short putt to the stake. Zeph managed
to knock him further away, and both Holliday and Davis returned to the vicinity of the stake. Jordan, faced with
a crucial light foot shot, took careful aim as the crowd hushed for what may have been the first time
of the afternoon. The ball hit the stake with an emphatic “thock”! Eventually, the applause died down, and Sinclair presented
the awards in the post-match ceremony. Champion Jordan was given a dinner for two at a Mooresville restaurant, and runner-up
Holliday was bequeathed an attractive toiletry kit complete with perfume, bath silk, fluffy towel, and convenient carrying handle. Sinclair was
jubilant after all was over. Calling the affair an “astounding success,” his only major disappointment was that “they left us
off the Spring Frolics T-shirts. I won’t stand for that sort of thing next year.” Passionately interested in croquet, Sinclair
fully intends to make the tournament an annual event, although next year “proper attire will be mandatory.” Perhaps now, Davidson
College's small niche in history has been firmly secured by those hardy souls who took mallet in hand and pursued
their fate upon the playing fields of Chambers.

They said smallpox was hopeless. Cajun music hits campus

By MARGARET JACKSON
Staff Writer

What exactly classifies Southern folk music? Is it the sound of Nashville? Of Cajun Louisiana? Of the Black fife of
North Mississippi or the delta blues of Tennessee? This year, the 13th annual Southern Folk Festival and the 12th Annual
Oldtime Mountain Music Show are joining together on a tour which combines all of these sounds and many more.

The combined group, called the Southern Grassroots Music Tour, will be featured in the 900 Room at 9:30 pm on
Saturday, April 15. Admission will be 50 cents. The ensemble consists of the Rising Star Fife and Drum Band, Hazel
Dickens, Robert Garrett, Beausoleil Cajun Band, and Anne Romaine.

The Rising Star Fife and Drum Band, consisting of a fife and three drums, represents the best in music from
north Mississippi. Dickens specializes in mountain music and composes many songs concerning women. Robert Garrett is a veteran Black blues
singer and talented musician. A Cajun fiddle, accordion, and guitar are the instruments featured by the Beausoleil Cajun Band, a
group from Louisiana. A North Carolina country singer, Anne Romaine, will serve as emcee. This collection of “down-home” musicians will
perform separately and occasionally together, to create a lively, informal jam session.
