Index No. 3-626

Editorials 3-5
Sports 6
Entertainment 8

Volume LXVII, Number TWENTY-SEVEN
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
May 12, 1978

WEATHER
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND!
Partly cloudy through Saturday with a chance of thundershowers on Sunday.

Board of Trustees holds final meeting
By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Investments discussed

The Board of Trustees closed out the year with their meeting this past weekend. They discussed investment responsibility, tenure and promotion decisions, and gifts among other things.

“It was not a particularly exciting meeting,” said College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.

The Investment and Management Committee (IMC) presented a general statement of Endowment Investment responsibility to the Board of Trustees: “Maximum financial return over the long run is the primary criterion underlying all decisions to ‘buy’ or ‘sell.’ A decision to ‘buy,’ ‘not to buy,’ or to ‘sell’ for other than financial reasons will be made only in cases where the college determines that such investments are or would be clearly immoral.”

“There was a wide range of opinions on the issue,” said Spencer. “A major argument was the difficulty of making the judgment of what an immoral action is.”

“There isn’t a company that isn’t immoral,” quipped Dean of Students Will Terry.

There was also a general concern over knowing the best way to meet social responsibility. According to Spencer, there were two major opinions among the Trustees: (1) that there should not be a specific statement of social responsibility at all, or (2) that the statement adopted by the IMC should be strengthened.

“The Trustees were afraid that this statement would raise more problems than it would solve and therefore the Board decided to wait until a better statement is recommended,” explained Spencer.

The Board moved to refer the issue of an investment statement back to the Finance Committee for further consideration. The committee will make its recommendations to the Trustees in the fall.

“Meanwhile, the college’s investments will remain on the total return principle,” said Spencer. “This is the first year that our returns have exceeded the five per cent takeout,” remarked Spencer. “The excess will be put back in the endowment rather than selling the stock to use for operational purposes,” he added.

(see TRUSTEES, page 2)

New faculty approved

The Board of Trustees finalized the appointment of new professors in the Departments of Religion, Physics, and French in their meeting last week. The Departments of Psychology and Sociology, meanwhile, continue their search.

Professor of Psychology John E. Kello described the situation of the Psychology Department. “The only candidate to which we made an offer already had two other offers,” said Kello. “He took an appointment at a major state university,” Kello explained. “We still have one more prime prospect still available,” he commented. “We’re hopeful.”

Kello speculated that if this prospect doesn’t work out, the department will likely make a temporary appointment and go through the search again next year.

The Sociology Department looked closely at three candidates, but “none of them had the right combination of qualities to take the position,” said Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann. “It’s a particularly sensitive choice,” Zimmermann said. “The position is tenured with the responsibility of the leadership of the department.”

“We want someone who we’re absolutely enthusias-”

(see SEARCH, page 2)

SOPHOMORE BILL Haley remarks, “This sure is a nice study break.” (Gregg Strader)

Duncan reinstated for next year

Proposal for tenure committee referred to PAC
By CAROL LOPTSON
Staff Writer

The faculty voted 38 to 25 to send Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac’s proposal for a tenure committee to the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) to consider it as a possible addition to the proposed Code of Evaluation. The vote took place at the faculty meeting Tuesday. The PAC will study the proposal and eventually make a recommendation to the faculty. The faculty will have an opportunity to discuss it and make changes in it.Faculty will then vote on the proposal. According to Professor of Sociology Norman B. Koller, “The PAC does not seem at all hostile to including it in the Code of Evaluation.” MacCormac said, “I’m still hopeful. I would have preferred to have a vote on my proposal by the faculty Tuesday at the (see FACULTY, page 2).

Media Board okays request
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

The Media Board convened Tuesday morning to approve Philip Duncan’s request for reinstatement as Davidsonian editor at the end of this term. The request follows a refusal by the Review Board to repeal Duncan’s present probation.

Much of the Board’s discussion centered on the newspaper’s credibility should he return. Member Tom Bessellieu commented, “I feel The Davidsonian’s credibility will only be suspect to those who have formed their opinion on rumor and oversimplifications of what happened. As for those who aren’t sure, I hope they will base their opinion on both the facts about this incident and the quality of the paper next September.”

Duncan’s defense advisor Harry Greyard read from a prepared statement, as Duncan was unable to attend due to illness. The following is Duncan’s statement, released Tuesday afternoon:

“After a hearing last Monday, the Review Board upheld the Hearing Committee’s imposition of the sanction of probation stemming from my violation of Section IV of the Code of Responsibility.

“According to the Code of Disciplinary Procedures, I have the option of appealing to the President of the College. Today I am announcing my intent not to exercise that option.

“I appealed the Hearing Committee’s imposition of sanction at the urging of my parents and some friends and faculty who questioned if the punishment of probation for a term was consistent with the nature of my violation.

“The Review Board determined that the punishment was consistent with the deed, and I respect and shall abide by their decision.

“During the period of my leave of absence from the editorship, I often considered what actions I should take if the Review Board upheld the sanction of probation for Spring term. After much thought, I today request the Media Board to allow me to resume my duties as editor at the conclusion of this term.

“I have no doubt that my violation of the Code of Responsibility has to some degree compromised my effectiveness in the position of editor of The Davidsonian. But I also have no doubt that, given the opportunity to return to the editorship, I can restore the confidence of the citizens of the College. Solicitor Hans Watford remarked during the proceedings that ‘actions are the measure of the man.’

“After taking the Code of Evaluation from Dr. Wolf’s box, I have attempted through my actions to demonstrate my respect for the standards of trust which make this community unique. By not printing the offending article about the Code, by pleading guilty as charged and cooperating fully in a public hearing of my case, and by voluntarily stepping from editorship during the proceedings, I have endeavored to atone for my original misstep and bear out my conviction that Davidson’s unique standards are worth upholding.

“Let me return to the editorship and prove through my actions in that position that good journalism is possible within the context of our community’s high standards.

“I beg your indulgence one last time. This is an appropriate forum in which to publicly express gratitude to all who have helped me through the past weeks.

“Only those who know me will realize how important The Davidsonian is to me, and only they understand how difficult it has been for me to stand on the sidelines after nearly three years of daily involvement with the newspaper. But many people, friends and acquaintances alike, have bolstered my spirits when they have been low. No one failed to condemn my violation, but all (see BOARD, page 2).”