September 29, 1978

The Davidsonian

Catawba falls 2-0
Cats win opener.

The first game of the season brings with it many physical demands and much mental anxiety as well. The women’s
field hockey team proved their ability to meet those demands in their opening game by beating Catawba 2-0.

In the opening minutes of the game, Cathy Inabnet carried the ball down the field assisted by Kirk Cameron, and
the first goal was scored by Bunny Horine against an obviously surprised and unsuspecting Catawba defense. The goal so early
in the first half provided a lot of excitement, anticipation, and confidence for both the team and spectators.

The second goal came in the second half. With a pile of offensive players on the goalie, the ball was
finally flicked in by Lisa Ballantyne. This cushioned the Cats’ position for the remainder of the game.

A hard shot on goal was beautifully executed by Kirk Cameron late in the game; however, the shot was blocked
by Catawba’s goalie.

Catawba has a very young team with many freshmen. Tuesday, however, was Davidson’s scrimmage this season. The initial game was
needed to test both themselves and the many new techniques initiated this season.

Co-captains this year are Cameron and Ann Clark. Clark was thrilled with the victory and said, “It helped us see
where our strengths and weaknesses are and what will need improvement before Friday's game. There was much more defensive play
than offensive play.”

Regardless of where play was dominated, both offense and defense had their moments of glory. The forward line proved strong.

The team faces its second confrontation this Friday, at home against Pfeiffer College at 4 pm, and hopes to extend
its victory streak to two.

SOPHOMORE CATHY INABNET carries the ball downfield for an early play.

As a freshman in college, it’s important to get a good start. To get your feet on the ground. Army
ROTC offers something that will help you do just that.

You'll learn how to manage people. And to do that you'll learn a lot about yourself.

You'll experience the excitement of adventure training courses. The thrill of riding the rapids and walking on walls as you
rappel a fifty-foot tower.

What you gain in Army ROTC will be an asset to you in any career.

Get your feet on the ground in college in any way you can.

CPT MITCH KOTULA
BELK BASEMENT
892-2000 EXT 167

Army ROTC
—what it takes to lead.
