October 13, 1978 The Davidsonian

CONSTRUCTION OF new low-rent housing on Lake Norman is well underway, with the first unit scheduled for completion by December.
(Gregg Strader)

Low-rent Housing Going Up; Aged and Poor to Get Relief
By MIKE COOPER and MARK BARRETT
Staff Writers

Low-income families, the disabled, and persons 62 years or older will soon be able to secure for themselves comfortable and
safe housing, spokesmen for the town of Davidson and the John Crosland Company said this week. Government-subsidized apartments are now
under construction on the shores of Lake Norman near General Time, Inc., northwest of downtown Davidson. The six buildings of
the complex should all be operational by February 1979, and Davidson Town Clerk Bill Brannon said that, “at least one
should be ready by December.”

Crosland Co. of Charlotte has been contracted to construct, own, and operate the apartments by the Federal Department of Housing
and Urban Development, according to company spokeswoman Beth Moore. Under the agreement, Crosland bears all construction and operational costs, while
HUD has set eligibility requirements for tenants, insured Crosland’s investment, and will pay a majority of these tenants’ rents.

The facility will have six buildings containing 14 one-bedroom, 24 two-bedroom, and 12 three-bedroom apartments. Moore said that, “The dwellings
will be energy-efficient with good insulation, air conditioning, central heating, and completely modern pre-installed kitchen facilities. Common laundry facilities will
be provided, and a playground is under consideration.” Although the apartments could optimally accommodate 196 people, a slightly smaller number
of tenants are actually expected.

Rent payments will be shared between tenants and HUD. Tenants are to pay according to their ability as determined by
HUD. Such payments will not exceed 25 percent of their income. HUD will make up the difference. With full occupancy,
rent has been set at $201 per month for a one-bedroom apartment, $240 for a two-bedroom, and $275 for a
three-bedroom dwelling. The tenants themselves would, of course, be paying only a small portion of these fees. Water and sewer
bills will be paid by Crosland and electric bills by individual tenants.

Maximum allowable incomes of tenant families range from $10,000 for a two-member family to $14,950 for a family of six.
Most incomes are expected to be far below this requirement. Disabled persons or those over 62 years of age are
exempt from this restriction.

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)—Tim Bradley of the American Society for Engineering Education only shakes his head and says, “Nobody knows. They’re
all wondering.” That, in a nutshell, is the “consensus” that has developed among education lobbyists here in the four months
since the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that 38-year-old Allan P. Bakke was illegally denied admission to the University of California-Davis
medical school because he is white. The court also ruled that the school’s admissions policy, which reserved 16 seats in
a class of 100 for minority students, was unconstitutional. Yet it was the court’s third ruling—that colleges may consider race
as a factor under some circumstances—that generated the kind of confusion Bradley noted. For admissions officers are trying to determine
what those “circumstances” might be. Their task is not made easier by the court’s split opinion on the issue. Only
five of the nine justices concurred in the “special circumstances” opinion, and there was considerable dispute among those five over
what constitutes an acceptable circumstance. As a result, the academicHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

The community is busily attending various conferences to see if it can concoct an accountable affirmative action program on its
own. Professional organizations like the American Council of Education and the National Assessment of Educational Progress, as well as schools
ranging from the University of Maryland to Mount Marty College in South Dakota, have already scheduled Bakke conferences this fall.
Other groups, like the American Association for Higher Education, have rushed opinion booklets into print that catalogue admissions policy adjustments
in the Bakke decision’s wake.

The adjustments to date seem to be an empty consensus. Among the consensus’ main points:
—That any program that uses racial considerations in any way will be viewed by the courts as “inherently suspect,” and
thus be subject to review.
—That all schools are going to have to review their current policies, and are probably going to have to re-draw
them to explicitly reflect the school’s stated academic objectives.

Spencer won't be retiring anytime soon (Continued from page 2)

He aims to give blacks both faculty and staff positions “as soon as I can find interested qualified candidates for
appropriate vacancies.” Today, he is still looking, according to the administrators, but has largely failed. Davidson has no black professors
today, and very few black staff members. But, according to Burnett, this is not Spencer’s fault: “Every time we have
an opening he always encourages us to consider minority candidates,” Burnett said.

The College has also had a difficult time attracting black students, prompting one present black student to criticize the admission’s
program as “ineffective.” Spencer also set up a Commission on Athletics, which resulted in a restructuring of the football program.
White said the football change is “one of the most positive things that’s happened here. We were trying to be
something we could not be.”

In other areas, Davidson's endowment has “fared very well under Dr. Spencer,” rising from 13.7 to 21 million, according to
College Business Manager Robert Currie. In his first annual report, Spencer wrote, “the fact that Davidson and Queens have both
run deficits in the past two years and face the prospect of further deficits in the future meant that these
colleges cannot be said to occupy favorable positions, financially.” Currie said that the College has never run in the red
during Spencer’s tenure, and said he suspected this must be a source of pride for Spencer.

At the same time, “I feel like he’s done an outstanding job of continuing to give compensation increases annually, not
only to faculty but to all non-faculty,” said Currie. Meetze said the E. H. Little Library, which was only dedicated
four years ago, is “really a great credit” to Dr. Spencer.

302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, N.C.

“For all your flower needs”

Giopeit Tatas
Take out orders
Mon.-Wed. 11-3, 6-8
Sun 11-3, 5-12
Best food east of Tulsa

“Everybody had faith, but he had the leadership to get it done.” “He just decided that the library was going
to be a first-class facility and he just kept hammering away at it,” said Terry.

What does the future hold for Davidson's Spencer? “I heard him say just the other day he wasn’t planning on
retiring anytime soon.”

ELECTRONIC SHOWCASE
DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR OF ELECTRONIC MERCHANDISE
All Single LP's $4.99
8 Tracks $5.99
482 N. Main, Mooresville, N.C.
LARRY WELLS

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
