April 28, 1978

To summarize progress & problems, there will also be reports from a representative of an investment firm on the present endowment investment. Generally speaking, it will be a general report on planning for the campus by Grover C. Meetze of the Physical Plant. The committee will discuss plans for the doctors, the college commons, and renovations of Martin Building. Committee chair W. Blair Gwyn is informed about the prospects. Marion Anderson, chair of the Committee on Business and Education, enumerated several aspects of their report to the Trustees. “There are some new developments since the last meeting. I envision a future business and finance management process. All of these days because of the social, political, and academic process will not go away with our life. All of this I see outside my job and as a historian of Myers Park. He has served as a member of the Education Committee. The President and staff nurture the College and should demonstrate 100% as influencing others. They have an overarching integrity and freedom of which trustees bear a relationship that is essential to the life and institution which is what they ought to get. It is a much sterner role for the College and must see that their own life progresses. In a personal way, in tune with what makes a marriage, which makes a nation, the quality of caring goes on.

“Basketball has stabilized and football is in good shape. I am very encouraged by the number of participants in Varsity Athletics and overjoyed at the participation of students in Intramural Sports,” Anderson added. “Of course, we will keep talking about the need for more facilities. But this meeting will be an informative session. There is nothing that the Trustees will be taking action on.”

The Education Committee will deal with decisions on the three tenure candidates, Drs. Schuh, Carroll, and Davies, and final approval on promotions, new appointments, and sabbaticals. Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann outlined the general procedure for this approval. “The Trustees delegate responsibility to the president to secure the kind of faculty that is described in the by-laws.”

“Trustees retain final approval of every decision,” Zimmermann continued. “They meet with the candidates themselves. In addition, there is close scrutiny of our (Dr. Spencer and Zimmermann’s) recommendations to them in the case for tenure and other promotions and appointments.”

As in past Trustee meetings, each Trustee meeting will submit year-end reports and discuss current issues before the entire board. “They don’t interfere a great deal with these promotions yet the trustees want to assure themselves that the faculty fits the by-laws,” concluded Zimmermann.

The Development Committee will present the analysis by a professional consultant concerning the 1987 program. Also at this time, “progress reports and discussions of the living endowment campaign will be heard,” stated Barnes.

Administrative Liaison for the Committees on Student Life and Health and Religious Policy Qualifications and Program Will H. Terry stated that “we aren’t making anything other than the year-end report as we view the past year.”

“Obviously at each meeting there are serious questions at hand,” summarized Edward G. Lilly, vice-chairman of the Finance and Management Committee. “The utilization of the Gray Property, the Investment Policy, the tenure question—all of these matters are important as related to the life and continuing development of the college community.”

Opinions sought
By ANN B. GARNER
FOCUS Editor

Aimed at providing the Trustees with direct student input, the Student Life Committee (SLC) of the SGA circulated a questionnaire Wednesday dealing with various campus issues. “During Senate visitations, we were able to get a general idea of the types of issues that concerned the students,” said Laura Michael, SLC member. The questionnaire attends to questions concerning student participation in faculty evaluation, the importance of a faculty member's religious beliefs in evaluation.For tenure and in hiring, and male/female enrollment ratios. In addition, the questionnaire seeks responses to questions involving the college’s investment policy, self-selection, the number of course offerings, night exams, and the release of the athletic budget. The committee plans to tabulate the results Monday night and to submit them first to the Trustee committee heads. All of the Trustees will receive a copy on Thursday, May 4. “We're really pushing this to get the best response,” concluded Michael. “We want the Trustees to be aware of what the students see as important.”

Responsibilities cover broad spectrum
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

The By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson College entrust that body with “the ownership, management, and control” of the College. Indeed, they represent the College as a legal entity. Its officers “shall have the powers usually held by the president and vice president of a corporation.” Assistant to the President Gary Barties described them as “a pretty diverse group in terms of careers. Lawyers, bankers, doctors, businessmen, government officials are strongly represented, among others.” The 46 members are selected by the Alumni and incumbent Trustees, though 24, a majority, are elected by the Presbyteries of North Carolina and southern Florida. Upon election, each is asked to assent to the Preamble of the College Constitution and the Purpose of the College as “an institution of Christian learning.” (Article I, section 3). According to the document, only active members of a Christian Church may be seated on the committee.

Although required to meet only twice annually, the body has traditionally convened in October, February, and May to transact regular business. The President is required to attend as “the official medium of communications between the members of the faculty, students and administrative personnel, and the Trustees.” The President of the Student Government Association is also “invited to attend all meetings of the Trustees...with the privileges of the floor but without the privilege of voting.” Between meetings much of the board’s responsibility is carried out by the Executive Committee, composed of the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary and Committee Chairmen. Because of its smaller membership and ability to meet on shorter notice, this committee carries out much of the pressing or less important work of the Trustees.

Perhaps the most visible and significant responsibility of the body is the selection of the College President. The qualifications as delineated in the Trustee By-Laws refer only to his religious standing. He is to be “a loyal and active churchman, giving evidence by his life of the strength of his Christian faith and commitment.” It makes no mention of academic or previous leadership criteria. The Trustees delegate “full power to administer the day to day affairs of the College” to the President, who himself further delegates responsibility among other officers and the Faculty. In divesting this authority, he is “authorized to recommend for appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons who can work with respect for the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it, and who can live in harmony with the purpose of the College as set forth in the Davidson College Constitution.” Tenure is to be granted only after Trustee approval of the Faculty member's personal and professional qualifications in light of the College’s Christian commitment.

In the area of Faculty and student government the Trustees retain the power to approve or reject any document “having to do with some element or aspect of the College or campus governance.” The President may, at his discretion, suspend any such official student or Faculty action for seven days pending review by the Trustees.