The Davidsonian

We’ve come a long way
By BILL PEEPLES — Features Editor

An outlandish paperback, The Underground Guide to the College of Your Choice, is truly an “out-a-site” revelation. Published in 1971 by a group of self-acclaimed “freaks” at the University of California at Berkeley, the book takes aim at both “hip” and practical areas of concern. Surprisingly, the authors dedicated three pages of this masterpiece to Davidson. (Williams only got one page.)

The section on Davidson, when read eight years after it was written, is the best study break around. In the opening line, Davidson is described as “the most academically eminent church-related school in the South.” Some things never change. This statement is the only serious comment in the write-up. Trying to address themselves to the anti-war activism of their generation, the authors were very desperate in their search for an element of protest here. Speaking of Davidson, they list as one of their biggest demonstrations the time when the Greeks held a torchlight parade to protest the abolition of fraternities by the administration.

Admissions policy was very important to the Berkeley group, stressing the importance of SATs and high school standing. They add, however, that “no effect is made by the admissions department to stretch the requirements for minority students, except, perhaps, for basketball players; if you’re a Harlem Globetrotter, apply.”

“The course of study is more or less dictated by the graduate school the student wants to go to, especially medical schools,” they claim. Some things never change. In discussing the faculty, the authors mention the most popular professors, “including Mr. William Jackson, Assistant Professor of Political Science.” By all means, if you can find him, take him.

They obviously did not realize what inflation can do in eight years, especially when they said that “private schools mean bread. Pay through the nose at $1550 a year.” And to think we’re going to pay through the eyes, ears, nose, and throat next year at over $5000.

On Davidson life in general: “This is a boys’ school, and you know what condition they must be in. Private girls’ schools house delectable Southern belles who definitely aren’t liberated. Most cuts are very sleek. The crew cuts just left but there are a few with hair covering their ears. The admissions office goes in big for the all-American boy look and most of the students do, too.”

This is great: “To look cool, everyone reads the ads in Playboy and Esquire, tones them down a little, and buys his clothes accordingly. They do, however, wear jeans and sweatshirts in class.”

As to the local social scene, “Hattie’s beer joint is the local hangout.” Now it’s the local burnout. “The few radicals frequent the College Union,” they add. Does Jackie Hughes know about this one? “Most of the students smoke grass, but that’s it. Drinking, movies, and music are the entertainment. There are only about

Scholars act
By ESTHER BRUCE Features Editor

Four Rusk Scholars wanted to do a play. They got together, organized, and accomplished their goal. They will present Gotcha, a one-act play by Barrie Keefe, on Friday and Saturday nights.

“This is a good play to choose,” said Rusk Scholar and director Simon Curtis, “because it’s one act, has four characters, and is an exceptionally good play.” Curtis feels that this play represents some of the feelings prevalent in London today. Although it is humorous in many places and sympathetic, says Curtis, “It’s a very hard-hitting play.”

“People should come,” contends Curtis, “because it’s not the sort of play they’d expect to find in this part of this world.”

The four scholars involved are Simon Curtis, director, Tom Cairns, lead role, Kerry McQuade, and Liz Woodham-Smith. Jim Humphries, an American Davidson student, also has a part. The scholars will present their play in the Drama Workshop. Admission will be 50 cents.

Rimers
By MARSHALL WADDELL Managing Editor

If you come to The Rimers of Eldritch expecting to be entertained by a light, clever drama you will be shocked. This tale is of murder and a rape. It is a hard-hitting work skillfully executed. But no light humor. One is pleased to see this work carried out so well by a cast partially nurtured on somewhat sentimental or fantastic themes of plays past. Contro-Three radicals on campus, and one of them is the president.” Some things never change. Besides admissions standards, college health care was of great concern to the Berkeley group. On ours, they noted, “The infirmary is dangerous beyond the cold or flu stage.” So what is new? The campus newspaper continues in its tradition, for they noted, “The paper, The Davidsonian, is liberal and usually anti-administration.” Even after Vietnam.

As to the mental environment, students “read the Autobiography of Malcolm X. People discuss the relevance or irrelevance of fraternities and integration.” Being out in the sticks is nothing new either. State the authors, “Davidson is out in the country with only a polluted stream to remind anyone of civilization.” Is that the one we all get creeked in? “There are still more trees than people,” they continue. “The students are very concerned about ecology, especially about the polluting effects of the Duke Power plants.” The authors apparently knew a good thing when they saw it. Commenting on rules and regulations at Davidson, they noted, “The honor system and two campus police are in charge of law enforcement.”

Some things never change. Besides admissions standards, college health care was of great concern to the Berkeley group. On ours, they noted, “The infirmary is dangerous beyond the cold or flu stage.” So what is new? The campus newspaper continues in its tradition, for they noted, “The paper, The Davidsonian, is liberal and usually anti-administration.” Even after Vietnam.

As to the mental environment, students “read the Autobiography of Malcolm X. People discuss the relevance or irrelevance of fraternities and integration.” Being out in the sticks is nothing new either. State the authors, “Davidson is out in the country with only a polluted stream to remind anyone of civilization.” Is that the one we all get creeked in? “There are still more trees than people,” they continue. “The students are very concerned about ecology, especially about the polluting effects of the Duke Power plants.” The authors apparently knew a good thing when they saw it. Commenting on rules and regulations at Davidson, they noted, “The honor system and two campus police are in charge of law enforcement.”

Controversial is too vague a term to describe this play—gut-rending might be a more appropriate word. It is quite a different direction for the Drama Department. And the cast carries it off with style. Aside from a ten-minute intermission, the action runs without interruption. No one leaves the stage, no one exits. The dialogue flows from area to area as each fades in and out in a random, oftentimes repeating fashion. This leaves the audience with a seemingly loose collage of interrelated events. Memorization of this play is no small task for the cast, yet if flaws are made or lines forgotten, they are well covered and go unnoticed.

The cast is strong as a whole. Each member plays a convincing and integral part in giving the play its impact. We are at once overwhelmed by the boomy decrees of Tom Bessellieu from the bench and pulpit. We are charmed by Eva Jackson (Laurie Campbell) in her attempt to kindle romance with Robert Conklin (Lyman Collins). They are a good team. We are at once amused and confused by Mary Winrod (Bernadette Walter) as she fades in and out of reality. We are never sure to take the old woman seriously; she nevertheless provides often hilarious, at times poignant, diversion to a sobering play. And there is Skelly Manor. Equally curious as Mary Winrod, he gradually warms the audience to pity. Pity for his lonely existence as an outsider and a scapegoat. His life is as tragic as his death. The how and why I leave to you. Especially the why.

The other characters serve to round out the picture of a sleepy, dying town. They are familiar types, one’s neighbors perhaps. Each with flaws. But can we condemn them? Certainly not. They will be acquitted, much like Nelly Winrod. Or will they? See the play. When you are not caught up with the play’s dialogue, take time to notice its set. Its strength lies in design and function, rather than in eye appeal. It suggests a cold, tired, empty world, quite appropriate for the tone of the play. Notice also the subtlety with which background recordings are used—from a cricket-filled fall evening to the tinny sound of a radio cranking out Hank Williams over the dull hum of fluorescent lights. They might go unnoticed, but they nevertheless round out the drama well.

In short, be very disappointed if you miss The Rimers of Eldritch. It’s great theatre. And it leaves you thinking. Come open for thought. You will enjoy it all the more.

Pop Film

The Pop Films Committee has shown films for the 1977-78 school year which have drawn more small audiences than large ones. They need your help; they want to show movies that students want to see and are not on television. Next week they will be distributing questionnaires in the dorms asking for suggestions for next year. Please help out.

ALSO: Tutoring for NASD exam. Be your own stockbroker. For more information write: STOCK MARKET COURSE - FOR BEGINNERS WEEKENDS AT LAKE NORMAN & save up to 87% on magazines. REG REPS: Have your own office: 70% commissions plus overrides. FRANK DEFELICE, Ph.D. Inc. Rt. 4 Lake Norman, N.C. 28118.