March 31, 1978 The Davidsonian 3

Hankins visualizes literary magazine
by CLAY MACAULAY
Staff Writer

With the folding of Inklings, a number of students are discussing the advent of a new literary magazine this spring.
“All we have now are floating ideas,” said Media Board Chairman Greg Hankins, “but a number of people in private
poetry groups have indicated their interest to me in having one.” Hankins added that the Union Poetry Committee also likes
the idea.

Inklings, which published only works by freshman class members, printed its final issue in the Spring of last year. According
to Professor of English Georgianna Ziegler, Inklings was costing too much, and interest was low in the project. She pointed
out, however, that the R. Windley Hall award will continue to be given to the most creative freshman writer, and
said that some back issues of the publication were available through her office.

Hankins visualized the new publication as being less formal than Inklings or The Miscellany, by describing it as “a tabloid
with a broad base.” Hankins hoped this broad base would allow more writings to be published and would “subdue the
chicken factor” in many of the writers at Davidson. Poetry is not all that is to be published in the
new magazine.

National and world news

Israeli cabinet backs Begin
Israel: Prime Minister Begin received the full backing of his cabinet upon his return from the U.S. and talks with
President Carter last week. Begin and Carter failed to reach an agreement on key Middle East questions during the Washington
talks. Tuesday, Begin announced his willingness to resume peace talks with Egypt, promising a more conciliatory position towards the Palestinians.
Defense Minister Weizman is expected to be sent to Cairo to reopen negotiations.

Lebanon: While UN peacekeeping troops carefully move into Southern Lebanon, scattered PLO attacks continue. So far, the guerrillas in the
area have resisted all attempts for a cease-fire. While PLO leader Arafat has agreed to support UN peacekeeping efforts, it
is not sure how much control Arafat has over the guerrillas in Southern Lebanon.

Venezuela: President Carter began his week-long Third World Tour Tuesday talking to Venezuelan President Andres Perez. The major issues to
be discussed will be human rights, energy, and South American politics. Carter will be received Wednesday in Brazil, and then
proceed to Africa. Carter’s overall objective will be to improve U.S.-Third World relations, as well as gain support and recognition
for the Panama Canal treaty.

Panama Canal: The Senate ratification vote on the second part of the treaty has been set for April 26. This
part of the treaty deals with the actual return of the Canal to the Panamanians. A tough battle is expected
in the Senate, as constituent pressure has been building on many Senators.

Washington: After striking coal miners ratified a new three-year contract last Friday, union and industry officials put an end to
the 109-day coal strike by signing the contract Saturday night. Among the provisions of the contract are a 39 percent
increase in pay and fringe benefits for the union through 1981, a revised health care program allowing fewer free benefits
to the miners and their families, and an abdication by the union of its demands for a “right to strike”
at local mines by simple majority vote.

Compiled by Mary Booth and Mark McCormick.

By ANN SHEAFFER
Ass. Special Projects Ed.

Project Peace, recently founded at Davidson as a means of increasing student awareness of world problems, has collected 175 dollars
in its fund drive to provide aid to a Lebanese refugee family displaced in the recent Israeli-PLO conflict. Project members
will consult various relief agencies this week and select a family to receive the money.

Co-founders of Project Peace Youssef Abagui, George Cornelson, Mark Hooper, and Chuck Fiden feel that support from the campus community
has been strong. They plan to spread the project into the town of Davidson with the aid of local churches.
The long-range goal of the project is to increase awareness of world problems and encourage peace. Abagui said, “Once people
are aware of what’s going on, they will support it.” Attention will be focused on presenting an unbiased view of
world problems and stimulating discussion.

Clothing will be collected in the dorms for shipment to the Red Cross for distribution, and the fund drive will
continue through April 7th. (Gregg Strader)New tabloid; short fiction essays, and even critiques of other poetry are also planned. “We
would even like to print pictures of artwork and photos of expressive scenes, but I’m not too sure how it
would work out,” said Hankins. The Poetry Committee, Hankins, and others hope these “floating ideas” will materialize, and that the
new literary publication will be a reality by the end of spring term. Hankins has talked with Davidsonian Production Manager
Amanda Hall about possibly doing the typesetting for the new project, and pointed out that negotiations have been made with
Davidsonian editor Philip Duncan about the possibility of using the Davidsonian typeset. Hankins’ main concern, however, is funds for the
project and student support. “For it to be a success we would have to include a broad base of writing
which would involve a number of people,” said Hankins, and added that he hoped to talk with the Publications Board
on March 15 about possible funds for the magazine. The hope of the people behind the project is that it
will encourage students to publish their work. “A lot of students at Davidson College are closet poets, and I believe
that if the students feel it is worth the time and effort to write it down, it is not that
much more egotistical to want it published,” Hankins concluded.

Conservation effort saves paper cups
By ROGER BROWN
Staff Writer

Davidson students have saved close to 100,000 paper cups since early in winter term. The effort simultaneously has raised close
to $1000 for CROP, an organization which attempts to alleviate hunger and malnutrition overseas. The cup drive is a product
of the arrangement between students and Slater Food Services. Slater Director Ron Scott agreed to begin using paper cups rather
than plastic since waste paper is degradable, and he also agreed to give a share of his savings for each
cup saved. During the fall term, each student eating at Slater used an average of 3.4 cups per meal, or
a total of about 15,000 each week. The cups not only represented an enormous waste, but also cost the food
service $1.29 each—almost $200 each week just for cups. With the current arrangement, CROP receives 1 cent per cup saved,
and Slater saves about $25 each week.

Jim Haynes coordinated much of the planning and publicity for the drive. “I was uncertain at first about how students
would react, but the response has been great. We've been saving about 10,000 cups each week and have reduced the
average number per person to just a little over one each meal.” Haynes has two primary concerns: “I want the
support to continue growing. A lot of people still use three cups at a meal, and many have never started
bringing their own glasses. Also, I would like to see other organizations on campus push the idea.” Some support has
been shown by participants in the CROP meals and at the Depot luncheons; Haynes hopes this support will broaden. He
suggested that eating houses cut down on the use of paper plates and cups. Also, using waste paper for homework
would be a start towards reducing waste. Steve Holman, another organizer, commented, “As much as anything, we're trying to create
an awareness of the problem of waste and the potential that we as consumers have for reducing the amount of
garbage we impose on the environment.” Holman has also worked for the glass and paper recycling which began recently. The
cup drive has shown that innovative ideas and cooperation can have an impact. As Haynes said, “Many conservation schemes have
such minimal effect that they won’t hold water; 100,000 paper cups will.”

Currie delineates retirement project
(Continued from page 1)

“College funds will not be used for this purpose. The college is not going to get into the retirement business,”
Currie added. The funding for the project will be private, consisting of capital from investors and a regular mortgage loan
from a financial institution, Currie explained. “The project must be well-organized and well-capitalized,” commented Spencer. “Prentiss is to organize a
corporation to build and operate the community.” “There will be about 100 apartment units along with complete dining services. Nursing
facilities may also be established, but they will run independently from the retirement center itself,” Spencer concluded.

$35.00 Per Hundred Stuffing Envelopes Already Stamped & Addressed: Free Supplies, Send Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope To Roel 5349 Hull Street
Road Suite 81 Richmond, Va. 24224
