8 The Davidsonian April 7, 1978

Students thank Little with party, giant card

By AMANDA HALL Productions Manager and BILL PEEPLES Features Editor

Imagine receiving a birthday card so large (9’ x 5.5’) that it will appear in the new edition of The
Guinness Book of World Records! At 1:30 p.m. next Monday, Mr. E.H. Little will receive this token of students’ appreciation
in honor of his 97th birthday. Liz Burke and Kathy Boylston designed this gargantuan card, and you are one of
over 1300 students who may sign it. The card will be available all Spring Frolics weekend for signatures. It will
be at the Post Office all day Friday.

Since only 150 people may attend the birthday banquet next Monday night, a campus-wide party will be given at 1:30
p.m. that day. This memorable celebration will be on Richardson Plaza. Mr. Little will ride around Richardson Plaza in a
horse-drawn carriage at the 1:30 ceremony. Arriving at a platform in front of the library entrance, he will be introduced
by SGA President Bruce Brown. Thereafter, Mr. Little will tour the library he built. A receiving line will be set
up at the circulation desk after the tour, so all students will have an opportunity to meet Mr. Little in
person. Says Barnard, “It’s a small way we can all say thank-you for what he has done for the school.”

For the students fortunate to be selected last week in the lottery, the official birthday banquet Monday evening should be
quite an experience. This dinner will be at 6:30 p.m. in the Chambers Gallery and will be videotaped for those
who cannot attend. Floor shows are scheduled to follow this sumptuous feast, where a huge cake baked to scale of
the E.H. Little Library will be served. Performances include renowned Silk Spun and Davidson’s Barbershop Quartet. In addition, student groups
are slated to provide amusing skits for the audience, which will be composed not only of Davidson students, but friends
of Mr. Little and specially invited guests of President Spencer. The Davidsonian cannot overemphasize the role of students in the
celebration.

Big Frolics crowd weekend

By ESTHER BRUCE Features Editor

Today ushers in the third and last big weekend of the year. The activities slated are numerous, ranging from the
expected bands and dances to carnival rides and croquet tournaments. Thursday the fun starts early, with the two rides which
are located beside the Union. These will remain through Saturday. Tonight students may get their first sample of the musician
David Amram in the 900 Room at 9:30 and 11:00 p.m. Amram will be on campus all weekend, appearing at
places and times yet to be decided.

Friday the outdoor concert, to be held at 2 p.m. beside the baseball field will feature soft drinks and kegs.
While you enjoy your drinks you can listen to the music of the three acts which will be playing background
music. John Stanfield, guitarist, opens the concert with easy, mellow music. You might want to catch the very beginning of
his performance so as to get an early start on the drinks. As you relax and fill up on drinks
throughout the afternoon, The Overland For That Smug, Frolicking, Springtime Feeling Remember Her With a Gift From THE VILLAGE.STORE 110
MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N. C. 28036

THE E.H. LITTLE Library stands in readiness to receive the man who built it. Mr. (Greg Strader)

Little’s 97th birthday party will be on Richardson Plaza next Monday. Unlike most other major events, this celebration has been
entirely planned and coordinated by members of the student body. Tim Goodell, Lee Rainey, and David Barnard all play an
important role, to name only a few. Reports Barnard, “I feel it will be the highlight of this year. The
students that miss the dinner should definitely attend the Richardson Plaza ceremony.” Must attend the ceremony, we might add. You
will not want to miss it.

Express and the Mission Mountain Wood Band will play medleys of bluegrass, country, jazz, and rock and roll. Both bands
give lively performances.

Saturday: this is a big sports day, with not only the Davidson Relays, but also croquet tournaments. The croquet games
are divided into six tournaments, each involving six players. Games will be on the hour, beginning at 11 am. Students
or faculty interested in participating may sign up at the Union Desk or at the games on Saturday. The tournament
will be located beside Phi Hall. Prizes will be awarded.

The traditional Davidson Relays will last all day Saturday. The meet, involving twenty-five teams from various schools, will be held
on Richardson Field. Besides the sports activities, a crafts fair will show various art for display and sale. The exhibit
will be in front of Chambers from 11 am until 6 pm.

Saturday night, Bill Deal and the Rhondells will fill Johnston Gymnasium with plenty of dance music for everyone. The music
starts at 9 pm. Kegs and soft drinks will be on hand from 9 pm until they run out.

Old scores acquire new unusual flavor
By MARY DAWN ROARK
Staff Writer

To the conservative mind, many of the very unusual adaptations and transpositions of classical music seem as unlikely as a
Parthenon in the middle of Nashville, Tennessee. Yet both are well received. One striking example is the rendition of Vivaldi’s
“The Four Seasons” by The New Koto Ensemble of Tokyo. This eighteenth-century Venetian composer’s piece was published in Amsterdam in
1725. In the early 1970s, the piece was transcribed by Keigo Tanunoda for a sextet of virtuoso koto players.

“The Four Seasons” was originally intended to be performed by strings, harpsichord continuo, and a solo violin. The koto, upon
first impression, does seem an odd replacement. Similar to the Western zither, it is six feet in length with thirteen
silk strings stretched over individual bridges. The strings are plucked by plectra which are attached to the thumb, index, and
middle fingers of the right hand. The Japanese choice of the Vivaldi work is, in fact, quite logical. As indicated
by the name, there is a concerto for each season. In traditional Japanese music, the theme deals with one or
more of the seasons, with a special emphasis on spring and autumn.

The chief problem was in transcribing a piece originally composed for bowed instruments into a workable (See “Japanese,” page 9)

© 1976 Hallmark Cards, Inc

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030 Broad Street

First Union National. DAVIDSON
