September 29, 1978

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON YOUNGSTERS enjoy a playground snack at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church School. (Gregg Strader)

Torrance speaks

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Albert Einstein once said, “God does not play dice,” a misunderstood statement about quantum theory that caused great thinkers of
his day to label him a determinist. “But he is a realist,” said Dr. Thomas Torrance Monday night, in a
successful attempt to defend and clarify Einstein’s observation. Einstein’s contemporaries took a statistical approach to quantum theory, whereas the eminent
physicist called for investigating the intrinsic structure of nature. Using quantum theory as an analogy, the mild-mannered Staley Lecturer from
Scotland suggested a similar approach to Christian theology, saying that there is “an objective, dynamic relatedness in the universe.”

An order exists in the universe that denies the deduction of ideas from appearances, Torrance explained, just as “one cannot
deduce that a rectangle is a rectangle from appearance, but from intellectual interpretation.” “God does not wear his heart on
his sleeve,” the theologian/physicist said. “God is in himself what he is to us.” In the same manner, Jesus must
be viewed Christologically, not historically, said Torrance. “One must approach Jesus through an ontological depth,” he continued.

Employing one of many scientific examples, Torrance turned to a discussion of light. He said, “Light is invisible, but it
is in the light of the invisible that we see the visible. We can rely on the order of the
universe just as we rely on the constancy of light.” Furthering the analogy, Torrance said that God is invisible yet
reliable in much the same sense as light. Scientific theories are revisable, and, he believes, theological processes should be also.
“We must allow Christ to continue disclosing himself to us ... as something viewed through the lens of a microscope.”
“God does not play dice with the universe,” Torrance concluded.

On Hwy. 21 In Cornelius (1 mile South of Piedmont Bailey)

EASTERN STYLE B.B.Q. SEAFOOD

HOURS: Thurs.-Sat. 11 a.m. Until
Phone 892-3362

Barnes heads church

By SUZANNE NEWBERRY
Staff Writer

Have you ever wondered who the small children emerging from the DCPC during the morning hours are? Believe it or
not, they are not child prodigies taking advanced courses at the college. Nor are they miniature Presbyterian monks out for
their morning meditation, which they resemble during the winter with their hooded parkas. They are aspiring young kindergarten students, ambitious
to start their education at the mature ages of three and four. The school located in the heart of the
church building is quite appropriately named the DCPC Weekday School. It is directed by Ms. Pete Barnes and sponsored by
the church. Although there is a tuition, scholarships are provided based on need.

Women’s

By SHELLI BALLANTYNE
Staff Writer

Where there is a need, a group forms to fill that need. Sue Ross, Associate Dean of Students, has a
hand in the formation of many groups, especially the female-oriented ones. With relatively few women at Davidson, she has found
that it is easier to identify these needs and then get together to talk about what can be done. This
has resulted in the formation of various women’s organizations. Rusk House, the women’s eating house on the court, was originally
organized as a women’s center for the Davidson community. The house is the center for many activities and discussions.

The children come from the Davidson, Long Creek, Westport, Huntersville, and Lake areas. Professional teachers guide and teach the children
from nine o'clock to twelve o'clock every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. There are twoClasses of children: one for the three-year-olds
and one for the four-year-olds. The purpose of the school, says Mrs. Bunny Frey, teacher of the four-year-olds, is to
help the children grow in love and appreciation of themselves and those around them. There is a great emphasis on
creating and improving each child’s self-esteem. The children are given the maximum amount of freedom possible, and the teachers readily
listen to the children’s suggestions. The young students are encouraged to do everything offered and to do things on their
own.

The main product of the now-defunct "Women at Davidson" group. Brenda Stewart, president of Rusk House, has found that it
is difficult to act as a community women’s center. But she stressed that “Rusk would really like to be more
than just an eating house.” The various functions at Rusk are open to everyone, but suggestions are needed on how
Rusk House could work on being a better women’s center.

One of the newest women’s groups on campus is a chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW). Nancy Warren
is responsible for organizing this group. Warren feels that NOW is needed in order to make the Davidson community more
aware of what the women’s issues are, especially concerning women’s athletics, compliance to Title IX, discriminatory admissions policy for women,
issues of ERA, and publicity for ERA as North Carolina remains a state. Also, there is a need for a
group that is just concerned with women’s issues. Warren has found campus women very receptive to NOW. The attendance at
the first meeting far exceeded her expectations.

Another club, the Women’s Interest Group, was first organized last spring term by a group of women students in conjunction
with a committee of the Distaff Club. The Distaff Club is an organization made up of women associated with the
college. Their object is to “aid the President and the Administration of the College in every possible way and to
promote the friendly association of its members.” What this really means, according to Mrs. Pam Stephenson, is to “act as
the official hostesses of college functions.” The Women’s Interest Group was seen as one possible way of creating a situation
where all women in the Davidson community were welcome to get together to meet each other, form friendships, and split
up into smaller groups where there was common interest. Some special interests that have been suggested are discussion groups, cooking,
crafts, sports, and travel. Plans are now being made for a revitalization of this group during fall term and all
women in Davidson are invited to become involved in whatever aspect of the Women’s Interest Group they are particularly interested
in.

There has been such an overwhelming response to the one of men’s groups in Davidson that in the near future...
