The Davidsonian May 5, 1978

Davidson students jailed in protest

(Continued from page 1)

formed a large circle in the center of the camp to join in singing followed by a few minutes of silence before the final trek began. Reporters and photographers were out in full strength. As demonstrators passed through the camp gate they received hugs and handshakes from supporters and were photographed by newsmen. The feelings of the marchers were a combination of determination, excitement, and uncertainty as to what exactly was going to happen. Some of the marchers walked in silence with their thoughts, some sang and cheered, while others picked up trash along the road. Each affinity group had “support people” who stayed off of AGNS property. These people provided moral support to the other protestors and were instrumental in keeping up the spirit of the group. Support people from Davidson were Roger Brown, the organizer of the Davidson affinity group, Katherine Allen, Dave Keller, and Anne Stanback.

The 285 people crossed the line. Among them were Davidson students Beth DuBose, Alicia Brown, Albert Connette, Chuck Gaddy, Steve Holman, Geoff Little, Brad Kerr, Jeanie McIntyre, Emily Partin, Mike Sorrentino, Susan Wilson, and Lindy Wood. Joining hands, the other protesters made their way past policemen and cameramen and crossed the boundary line onto AGNS property, thereby committing an act of civil disobedience. For the next two hours the police took no action except for requesting the protesters to leave. Each affinity group chose a representative to make a short speech to those present explaining the group’s reason for participation in the protest. Each spokesman expressed his concerns about nuclear power. The protestors milled about the area singing songs to the support people and the state patrolmen. The demonstrators made it clear that the policemen were not the objects of the protest but rather it was AGNS with which they were concerned. At one point the police were given a standing ovation by the protestors.

Approximately 3:00 that afternoon AGNS gave the go-ahead for the arrest to begin. Representatives from the State Attorney General's office were present, and everything was done according to precise legal specifications. Each demonstrator was approached individually by a representative of AGNS, who read a short statement requesting that the individual leave the premises. When the person refused, he was then addressed by a member of the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division who read a short statement advising that if the individual did not leave the premises, he would be placed under arrest. Each of the protestors refused to leave, and was arrested for trespassing. “We knew what was going to happen,” said DuBose, but she said it was a shock when they heard the officer actually say, “You're under arrest...” Once arrested, each person left peacefully with the policeman. No one went “limp” in order to resist arrest. There was no malice or violence; the entire process was carried out in a spirit of cooperation. In this respect, the protest was quite different from the violent protests reminiscent of the ’60s.

Each protestor was accompanied by a policeman to an area designated for picture taking and fingerprinting. After the actual arrest and preliminary booking, protestors were put on separate buses, awaiting transport to the Barnwell County Jail. At one point, the women began singing. Their songs were directed to several men who had just been arrested and were waiting outside to be loaded on a bus. McIntyre said, “Though we were physically separated by the walls of the bus, there was a feeling of caring for each other reflected by the songs. That was the most emotional time of the whole experience for me.”

The next several hours were perhaps the most tedious and tiring. After being fed an “institutional meal,” the protestors waited aboard the bus for processing. Some felt tense awaiting the decision on the amount at which bond would be set. According to Gaddy, “After having waited captive on the prison buses several hours, word finally reached us that our tactic of bond solidarity had succeeded; that the local authorities had relented and reduced bond to $15.

“This latest victory filled us with such exhilaration that we cheered and banged on the metal ceiling of the bus for some minutes, being joined in this gaiety by blacks who came from the town and stood outside the prison fences to support our challenge of the establishment.

“After the gist of our noise-making expired, a fellow protestor stood up from his seat and secured our silence and attention by delivering a most moving and articulate speech. He asked that we recognize the leniency we had encountered and to reflect a little on the suffering and injustices inflicted on those who had preceded us in other struggles.

“He then elaborated on the plight of so many Americans who all their lives are oppressed because of their powerlessness in the system. The comments he expressed were so very sober, that I barely succeeded in holding back my tears, and the bowed heads and the silence which endured for several moments after the address had been finished demonstrated that this reaction was shared by all.”

Ten at a time the demonstrators were escorted into the detention center. There they were again frisked, and then taken...to another room to fill out information forms and have mug shots and fingerprints taken. All were impressed by the courteous and friendly attitude of the law enforcement officers. The process was slow but someone noted, “They’d probably never had to arrest 285 people in Barnwell at one time.” After another long wait, each protestor was escorted by his arresting officer before the magistrate. The protestors all pleaded “not guilty.” All the Davidson students decided to post bond and after paying $15 they were released. About 30 people, however, refused to post bond and are at this time in jail awaiting trial. Upon release, the protestors were greeted outside the fence by the support people. They were driven back to the campsite by the Harmony Squad, members of the Palmetto Alliance.

Wilson said, “The police were somewhat restricted in their ability to express their feelings in that they were on duty and had to remain non-partisan. When we arrived back at the campsite, getting hugged by the people you'd gotten close to in the past couple days was a positive feeling after the uncertain atmosphere of the day's events.” Steve Holman was the last protestor to be processed. He finally arrived back at the campsite around 2:30 a.m. The drive home was long and miserable but the group finally pulled in about 7 a.m. Tuesday morning, exhausted but happy and inspired by their experience. Brown, who witnessed the protest as a support person, emphasized the fact that the protest remained non-violent and non-destructive. He felt it was a success though it was at times sensationalized by signs that made it appear that AGNS’ goal was intentional destruction of human life. Most of the group believe that the main purpose of the march and civil disobedience protest was to gain greater public awareness. According to Partin, “If the public sees that 1300 people joined in a march and 285 were willing to be arrested to protest nuclear power, then maybe people will realize that nuclear power is not something to be accepted lightly. It demands our careful consideration.” Alice Brown said, “I know that the demonstration was worthwhile because since we've been back many people have expressed interest in the issue and have said that they want to know more about it so they can make a decision.” “It was both an emotional and rational experience and while its effect is yet to be seen it was a worthwhile, valuable learning experience,” said Dubose. “I was impressed by the organization and commitment of the people there,” said Little. Little was not overly optimistic about the effectiveness of the protest, but is looking forward to ‘Barnwell II.’ “We were fortunate that the press coverage was either neutral or positive and quite widespread instead of the sparse negative response that protests usually receive,” said Kerr. “Many people futilely fight for the issues they believe in and are reconciled only by the knowledge that they are doing what they can. We were fortunate enough to actually get positive results for our efforts.”

Police widen role (Continued from page 1)

Hughes has hired two new officers. Both are certified medical technicians. Of the officers who worked on campus before the change, only one decided to leave the college and go work for the town. All of the employees who remained are trained in first aid. According to Hughes, the emphasis has been taken away from their role as policemen. They have been given wider responsibilities, dealing with many aspects of student welfare. “We're more involved. Before we just had a precinct. Now we've got a department of public safety," said Hughes. He said that he’s been assigned to survey campus buildings to find out how to make them accessible to the handicapped. “This has really been a good change-over for the officers. They're getting some good benefits they didn’t have before,” he said. Now that the police are paid directly by the college, they are eligible for hospitalization and pension benefits. The only criticism Hughes offered of the new system is that the town council has restricted their arrest power to the campus itself. They have no jurisdiction over college-owned off-campus housing. Also, he would like to hire an additional officer to spread out the workload. Brown said that he would like to see the Davidson force break its final tie with the town force by getting their own dispatch service. About the only person who seems to be disappointed by the new system is Davidson mayor Tom Sadler. “I would have much preferred that it (the community police force) continue as one,” he said. “It’s a matter of safety in numbers.”

As for the Infirmary, Dean Terry described the improvement in student health care as being almost “miraculous.” He attributes this mostly to the work done by the seven doctors from Charlotte Memorial Hospital who have manned the Infirmary this year. In describing their work, he used the adjectives “concerned,” “dedicated,” and “dependable.” Terry said that they “stay on (at the Infirmary) as long as they are needed.” Whenever they have gotten worried about a student patient who was depressed, they have taken the time to tell him and the counselors about it, Terry said. Infirmary Director Dorothy Sherrill was out of town and unavailable for comment, but one of the nurses said that she personally hasn’t heard any student complaints. “There’ve been no complaints over here. We haven't even made The Davidsonian,” she added, declining to have her name in print. Even the SGA has experienced a paucity of infirmary complaints. Brown said that he hasn't received a single one since being elected.