The Davidsonian

December 1, 1978

8

College Bowl field narrows to four

By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

As the winter quarter begins, the first intramural season of College Bowl at Davidson will conclude with a double elimination
tournament.

William Brown, the Assistant Director of the College Union, is the organizer of Davidson’s College Bowl. Pleased with the turnout
of students this season, he hopes for even more student participation in the future.

Of the seventeen teams that began the season, six teams entered into the semifinals of the championship tournament.

The four winning teams played last Tuesday night. Ru’ah Elohim defeated Precious Bodily Fluids, and Webb School of Davidson beat
Young Utopians.

The losers from Tuesday night then played against Quadrivium and Missing Link Wednesday night; each had been defeated only once
before. The Young Utopians defeated Missing Link, and the Fluids beat Quadrivium.

In every game two teams of four players each match their skills and try to answer questions which cover a
wide range of subjects.

The game consists of two ten-minute halves in which speed and accuracy are the crucial factors. There are two types
of questions, the toss-up worth ten points and the bonus worth twenty or thirty points.

Essentially any student can play in Davidson's College Bowl. The students organize their own teams and choose their own names.

One of the most outstanding players is senior Tom Ruby, a member of Ru’ah Elohim. Other members of Ru’ah Elohim
are Carter Hicks, Brian Benninghoff, and Mark Brooks who is John Zambos’ replacement for December.

Webb School of Davidson, organized because the four members, Stokes Peebles, Warren Beck, Warren Overby, and Ifor Williams all attended
Webb School before coming to Davidson. All of them are freshmen except for Williams, who is a junior.

Ru’ah Elohim and Webb School will meet on Wednesday, December 6 at 10 am in the Chambers Gallery. The admission
charge will be 25 cents.

The final match will be December 13 between the winner of the December 6 match and the winner of the
losers’ bracket.

LIVE CHRISTMAS trees are now taboo in Davidson dormitories, but stockings and colored lights continue to reflect the holiday spirit.
(Phil Howerton)

Andrew Sarris, film critic for the Village Voice, will be on campus December 8. His visit precedes the January 9
arrival of Lillian Gish, an actress much admired by Sarris.

Robert Altman’s recent film, “The Wedding”, received a mediocre review from Sarris. Nonetheless, Sarris lauded Miss Gish’s performance in the
film.

KEN WOODS and Suzie Summers offer a wide range of externships and internships to students of varied interests. The programs
of the experiential office provide practical job experience, often for academic credit, to aid students in career planning. (Phil Howerton)

Experiential programs help

By J. W. ARETINO
Staff Writer

You know what you want to do, where you want to do it, and how to manage your career after
graduation...

While recovering from the scars of another add-drop battle with the Davidson computer system and wondering how many days before
Christmas break, some students will take some time out to wander down to the Office for Experiential Programs in the
basement of the union to do some “exploring.”

Most students are aware of the many opportunities available for internships during the school year and in the summer. However,
another important option is also available, an externship.

The program was begun officially four years ago and originally involved twelve to fifteen people. Students had the opportunity to
work for a week, usually during spring break, in a field that was of personal interest. The program has grown
rapidly, now involving nearly sixty people.

Most of the externships are short, lasting from three to five days during a break. An expressed interest by a
student leads to phone calls and letters to alumni and friends of the college.

Ken Wood, Director of the Office for Experiential Programs, says that 95 percent of the alumni contacted were “eager” to
help. Even response from people not affiliated with the college has been great.

Past externships have involved work with the United Way, U.S. House of Representatives, work at the Center for Disease Control,
and even work in an obscure field like aerobics.

Wood emphasized some of the benefits from the program.

Originally it was felt the program would be beneficial in relations with the alumni and with setting up later internships.
However, students have returned with observations and experience that have directly benefited career planning. Students are able to plan majors
and coursework after an externship and have developed contacts for possible future internships or summer jobs.

A Nice Budget Price Gift...
... For the Kid at Home?

Try Wall Posters. House Gallery

Tolkien, Star Wars, Argus Springbok, Liberty, Sports, Scenic Jumbos, Handpainted Modern and Classic Matted Prints.

10 am—5 pm

At The Copeland

Inspirational, Theme,
