The Davidsonian, January 20, 1978

Christian conference draws lesson
By TOM RUBY
Staff Writer

Last spring, Davidson senior Bob Morrison suggested that the Davidson Christian Fellowship sponsor a conference for college students and leaders of the Presbyterian Church U.S. This past December 28-30, Morrison's idea reached fruition with the national conference, “The Lord's Church: Our Part in Her Renewal,” held on the Davidson campus.

Another Davidson senior, Bob Cathey, directed the conference, which consisted of lectures, small-group discussions, elective seminar sessions, worship, and time for individual Bible study and prayer. The lectures dealt with three areas: 1) the history of the Presbyterian Church U.S., 2) the foundation, nature, and task of the Presbyterian Church, and 3) a study of three Biblical leaders of renewal (Elijah, Elisha, and Zerubbabel). The individual and small-group study centered on Nehemiah, and the elective seminars studied personal Christian growth, campus ministry, and the role of the clergy and laity in the ministry of the Church.

The concentrated conference schedule stimulated much learning and many ideas. Approximately seventy students from over twenty campuses attended, as did twenty-six leaders of the Presbyterian Church. Notable among these leaders were the Rev. Bob Henderson, director of evangelism in the South for the General Assembly Mission Board, and Dr. G.T. Brown, director of the International Mission Board. In addition, many parish and campus ministers attended. Seventeen Davidson students and alumni were among those at the conference. The students stayed in Cannon and Sentell dormitories, and the leaders stayed in the Guest House.

Meetings

Poet likes bran bread
By MEREDITH DURDEN
Inside Art Editor

Distinguished poet Joel Oppenheimer writes according to the “Stewpot system.”

“It developed over a long period of time. I never kept journals or took notes. I've trained myself to write on napkins in my head. If something is happening, I just take a minute and a half and really attempt to remember it.

“It’s the stewpot system. You just keep throwing stuff in. Then, when the time comes, you fool with it, taste it, throw out some of it and add other stuff. What doesn’t belong gets bubbled off and what's left is the bone.”

As a guest of the Union Poetry Committee, Oppenheimer ate at ATO last night. He sat at the head of the table in a three-piece corduroy suit. Between bites of barbecued chicken, he discussed his career in calculus.

“I went to Cornell to go into engineering. I had made a 98.5 on my New York State Regents Examinations and I failed my calculus course the first time.”

“I really was good at math. I took an engineering course in advanced mechanical drawing. I ate it all up from the first day I learned how to add. But I sat there staring at page one of the calculus book for two terms. It was incredible.

“Thanks to the formulas written on my slide rule, I managed to get a 62 and pass the course the second time around.” He laughs beneath his white beard and asks for more bran bread. “I know one thing about calculus now. If I know how fast the water is going into the tub and how fast it is going out, I can know how much water is in the tub. I don't know how I know it or why I want to know it. I suppose it would be helpful if I were blind.”

After politely asking if it is okay to smoke, Oppenheimer pulls back his vest, revealing embroidered red roses on his shirt, and takes out a Sucrets box. Inside are several small cigars. He lights one. “Sometimes I'll be going home...and I'll get on the elevator with an unlit cigar and some guy will start screaming. Now when I light it up, that’s when he can throw me in jail. “God only knows what he has in his pocket. At least I keep my cigars out front,” he said. Oppenheimer has published four volumes of poetry: In Time, The Love Bit, The Women Poems, and On Occasion. He has also written a play, The Great American Desert, and a book about his career as a fan of the New York Mets, The Wrong Season. Currently, he is a columnist for The Village Voice. But poetry is his real medium. In an after-dinner conversation, Oppenheimer discusses the novel as a form of written expression. He has started another novel. “I've got about 10,000 words. But it seems that being a novelist is like being a marathon runner. You sit down every day and pound it out and sooner or later you have 70,000 words.” Oppenheimer will conduct a poetry workshop today at 2:30 in the Union Board offices. At 8:00 tonight, he will read some of his poems in the 900 Room.

The conference was held in the College Union, Dana Science Building, and Davidson College Presbyterian Church. According to Cathey, the highlight of the conference was the lecture series delivered by Dr. Millicent Huneycutt, professor of English and Old Testament Literature at Pfeiffer College. Dr. Huneycutt’s three talks discussed Elijah as a reformer, Elisha as a healer, and Zerubbabel as one dealing with problems that confront an average person working for renewal in the Church. The director felt that the participants returned to their respective campuses and churches with a broader vision of what was required for Church renewal. Those attending concluded that the new generation of Presbyterians must be more faithful to Biblical theology, but also must be more responsive to the Biblical mandates concerning the Church's relation to culture.

“We saw weaknesses in ourselves,” reflected Cathey. “Our lifestyles were not manifesting Christian values and we had become apathetic toward the Church's role in society. We discovered that in the future we will need a balance of piety and politics, and in achieving this balance we will need to work with, not around, the institutional Church.” Cathey further noted that he sensed a “basically favorable” response from those attending. Because of this response, another conference is planned for next year’s Christmas vacation. College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., Business Manager Robert Currie, and the Rev. John Rogers of DCPC assisted Cathey as he planned for the conference. Students who helped Cathey included Sylvia Gordon, Ed Rees, Bill Vincent, Kevin Spangler, Louis Williams, Sam Weir, Steve Smith, Bill Boyd, Miriam Shearer, and other DCF members.

POET OPPENHEIMER charms Davidson students today.

Showcase planned here for Tuesday morning

The Union discovers a talented student. He performs in the 900 Room. His peers give him a very favorable reception. A month later he performs again and then drops from view simply because there's no place for him to go. If a group of concerned college students in the Charlotte Consortium has its way, this all too frequent occurrence won't happen again. A showcase will be held at Davidson of student acts from the Consortium. Representatives from colleges will come to see the acts and choose any they want to hire for their schools. To select the three Davidson acts, a small showcase will be held Tuesday in the 900 Room.