January 27, 1978

ante the Davidsonian

Curlers in your hair ~ shame on YOU

Letter to the Editor

Don’t you have better things to do, roomie? But Grace, I'm amazed at the transformation... let me watch.

Heading on over

Schleifer contests Abagui’s claims

To the Editor:

In response to Mr. Abagui’s article of the 20th: I agree with Mr. Abagui’s assertion that we in the United States know only what we read in the press concerning the Middle East. That is where any agreement ends. For the rest, I was amazed, shocked, and offended by his ideas. Mr. Abagui may be closer to the Middle East but I feel this only makes his own thoughts colored by “conditioned slanted prejudices and ideals.”

Mr. Abagui calls the press in the United States our “pro-Zionist and Jewish controlled mass media.” Yet he begins his article with a pro-Sadat quote from an American magazine which chose Sadat as its ‘Man of the Year’. The liberal press in the United States, which sided with North Korea throughout that debacle, is anything but pro-Israel. In fact, their prejudices may lead them closer to a true and fair evaluation of the situation.

Mr. Abagui calls the Israeli approach to the peace talks and their way of bargaining “capricious and obstinate attempts of resistance on the part of a selfish minority that is...

Limey prefers piers

By RORY CORNISH
Guest Columnist

“Michael is somewhat younger than me, but he looks older.” —Lord Caradon

It was a field day for the Davidson Anglophiles: a real-life British Peer on campus. Well, to be technical he was not your actual hereditary, medieval peasant mangling sort, but he does have a castle and regularly walks with his hands behind his back in the British aristocratic style. It’s funny how common that suddenly became on campus last week!

As a member of the welcoming committee—I never thought I would be a token Limey—I did have occasion to meet his lordship. Impressions? Well, at first not many. Obviously a learned man, vastly experienced in international affairs. “I say, did you know he was once Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs?” Extremely genteel, and vaguely olde-worldly. Then I listened. “Typical ‘Colonel Blimp’ type,” I thought; “Should have gone down with the Empire and made the world safe for irreverent ne’er-do-wells like myself.” “God, if he had his way, I’d be in the army fighting in the far-flung reaches of the Empire.” Don’t laugh! We still have Hong Kong and Gibraltar, not forgetting good old Northern Ireland, that home away from home for willing British troops.

Then I listened again. He dealt extraordinarily well with our friend who regularly seethes with Zionist/Russian/Imperialist paranoia; perhaps he had something interesting to say after all. I interviewed him. Result—a complete blank. “I am not that interested in politics back home.” “But in this era of nationalism I think Britain has a definite role to play.” “We have wonderful connections through the Commonwealth, our relationship with the Americans, and now, of course, as members of the EEC.” “I would like to see Britain take a more positive role in world affairs; we should come up with some new initiatives.”

Of course, this initiative would come from a country faced with a million unemployed, racial trouble and a growing Fascist party, arguments over Scottish devolution, a balance of payments problem that occasionally would send John Maynard Keynes racing for his slide rule, two inept political parties, and to top it all, no more Sex Pistols! God, even the Welsh want independence! Nevertheless, this is the wreck Lord Caradon wants to launch, once again, into the troubled sea of world diplomacy. Well, Britain may once have ruled the waves, but in today’s world, old chap, it takes most of our diplomatic skills trying to prevent the Arabs from buying boating rights on the Serpentine in Hyde Park. No wonder Michael Foot looks older. (Foot is Deputy Leader of the Labour Party and Leader of the House of Commons, a real politician.)

Yes, of course, I know all about the wonders of North Sea Oil, the panacea for all known ills. This time I would like to see us get it right and plough back...the revenue and the wealth into putting our own house in order rather than embarking on another Pax Britannica type adventure. Look at the state our last escapades left us in: Merry Olde England isn’t so merry after the Party. Of course, Lord Caradon was/is charming, but what do I think of British Peers of the Realm? Well, I ‘pissethese piers: at Southend and Brighton - not concerned with the consequences.’ But let us first try to discern what went on at these peace talks. Mr. Sadat, in a beautifully orchestrated move, called for talks to settle the conflict between his country and Israel. Mr. Begin agreed to talk but at no time said he would make any further concessions. Sadat broke off the talks “accusing the Israelis of deliberately blocking progress” (Charlotte Observer, January 19, 1978). In response, an Israeli cabinet minister said that Sadat “was under the illusion that we would surrender to demands that at no time were acceptable” (Observer, Jan. 19). Obviously, neither side is willing to make concessions; therefore, it is just as fair to accuse the Egyptians of the same capriciousness and obstinacy, especially considering Sadat’s statement that “Israel...cannot have both peace and the Arab territories captured in the 1967 Mideast War” (Observer, Jan. 21, 1978).

On the issue of those “Arab” territories, this must be said. The 1967 Mideast War was not started by the Israelis to gain Arab land, but just the opposite. Throughout history, a victor in a war has been allowed to keep the lands it won, especially if it had been attacked initially. To ask the Israelis to give up their land, we should first ask the Soviets to give up Poland, the eastern portion of Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, etc., and also return the Columbian territories now known as Panama and the Canal Zone. Mr. Abagui talks about the Zionist movement in rather harsh terms. Let us not forget the suffering that this people has endured through the centuries, culminating with the regime of Hitler. It is that suffering which prompted the founding of the present state of Israel, “Zionist Movement.” All these statements by Mr. Abagui are shocking in their fallaciousness, yet all would be tolerable if it were not for his comparison of the Jews to the Nazis. That statement was totally uncalled for. If anything in the Middle East situation can prompt accusations of Nazi-like practices, it is the terrorism used by the Egyptians and “Palestinians.” Their utter disregard for such as we are in now. The Judaic idea of “God's chosen race” has absolutely nothing and no to do with the master race principle of earthly superiority. Mr. Abagui should find out about this “religion respected by the Arab majority” before he makes such statements. And please remember that one principle of all Christian religions is that we are the heirs of Judah, and therefore are also God’s people.

Finally, Mr. Abagui attempts to win over our sympathy for his cause by briefly depicting the sad state of affairs in Egypt today. If anything, this sounds like an argument for allowing the Israelis to keep their land for the sake of all those people living there, Jewish and Arab alike. The Israelis have already taken one desert and made it a decent place to live. As for my own “slanted prejudices,” thank you Mr. Abagui for releasing me from them. I used to be open-minded, convinced by the liberal American press that both sides were at fault. I will now throw my undivided allegiance to the Israelis, since I cannot, with a clear conscience, side with some group that will act so ruthlessly, as I feel you have done in your article, to gain their ends.

Paul C. Schleifer ’78
Davidson College

The plan to sell the recently-fallen ‘Oldest tree on campus’ as furniture and other commemorative pieces reflects cheap, greedy merchandising of a historical and otherwise sentimental campus monument. To heck with the critics! Think of what a conversation piece it will be! Find my order below.

- rocking chair
- walking stick
- coffee table
- wildcat-grow woodchip mulch

Specify ‘Chambers Building’ or ‘Chalmers - Davidson’ engraved plaque. Write checks payable to Davidson College.