April 7, 1978 The Davidsonian 5

Dangers of nuclear waste examined

In the next four issues of The Davidsonian, the Davidson Public Interest Research Group will present a series of articles taken from a recent PIRG publication entitled "Nuclear Cargo in North Carolina: What are the Risks?" Readers are invited to respond to our articles by way of Letters to the Editor.

Much attention has been given to the hazards of nuclear energy which relate to the operation of reactors and to the long-term storage of radioactive wastes. The dangers involved in the transportation of nuclear materials, however, have received less publicity. North Carolina PIRG’s interest in the transportation issue was raised by a trucking incident that occurred outside of Roanoke Rapids, North Carolina, in October 1976. The lid came off of a crate carrying radioactive materials, which luckily did not spill. This incident caused PIRG to become more aware of the potential for transportation accidents involving nuclear materials and led us to undertake this study of the transportation situation.

This report examines the dangers associated with radioactive shipments. It also examines current regulations and efforts made to control these dangers. Finally, the study explores further possibilities for assuring the safety of North Carolinians as they are exposed to the risks of radioactive shipments traveling along the highways and railways.

The Nuclear Fuel Cycle

In order to understand why the production of nuclear energy involves the routine transportation of dangerously radioactive materials, a basic understanding of the steps involved in fueling a nuclear reactor is necessary. These steps are referred to as the "nuclear fuel cycle."

The nuclear fuel cycle varies for each type of reactor now in use or under development. Currently, all of the commercial reactors in operation are light water reactors of two types: boiling water reactors and pressurized water reactors. Inside these reactors, the repeated and controlled splitting of nuclei of heavy atoms, such as uranium-235, results in a self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction that continually releases huge amounts of energy. The fuel for these reactors is made of a combination of uranium isotopes. Because approximately 99.3 percent of natural uranium is non-fissionable uranium-238, large quantities of uranium are processed and enriched to contain higher percentages of fissionable U-235. The fuel produced in this way is used in the form of uranium-oxide pellets contained in metal rods, which are bundled together into what are called fuel elements or assemblies, placed inside the reactor.

The fuel production cycle is an extensive process during which radioactive uranium travels the routes between mines, mills, and conversion, enrichment, and fabrication facilities before it reaches the reactor. In the course of reactor operation, the amount of U-235 in each fuel assembly is depleted, and the various products of the fission process accumulate until it becomes necessary to exchange a portion of the spent fuel for fresh fuel. About one-third of the fuel in a pressurized water reactor and about one-fifth of the fuel in a boiling water reactor is replaced each year. In the normal functioning of the fuel cycle, spent fuel is sent to a reprocessing plant where unused uranium can be recovered and can re-enter the cycle again at the enrichment stage. Other materials present in spent fuel include highly radioactive waste products (commonly called high-level wastes), such as plutonium, strontium-90, and cesium-137, which must be safely stored away for thousands of years. Plutonium is one of the more important newly created elements found in spent fuel, since it can be separated, like unused uranium, and used as fresh fuel in a reactor. The recycling of plutonium, as a supplement to uranium enrichment, has been done only on an experimental basis. Until recently, it was being seriously considered as a standard large-scale operation for the future. However, the Carter administration has recently set forth a policy against the use of plutonium as fuel in nuclear reactors, and future developments are uncertain.

The nuclear fuel cycle produces waste materials other than those found in spent fuel. During reactor operation, waste consisting of highly radioactive sludges and resins accumulate, and other solutions and materials become contaminated with usually small quantities of fission products. There are still other wastes consisting of chemicals, filters, clothing, used containers, and damaged equipment involved in the reactor’s operation. At other stages of the fuel cycle—in the chemical processing, enrichment, and fuel fabrication facilities—many types of wastes of varying radioactive levels are also produced. All of these wastes must be removed and stored away.

The future of nuclear power expansion may revolve around the development of high-temperature gas-cooled reactors, which differ substantially from light water reactors, particularly in the type of fuel they use. The high-temperature gas-cooled reactor uses a

A conversation with myself: As the black vinyl sings its simple tune...

By RORY CORNISH Guest Columnist

Roxy banged out its simple tune as Julian unexpectedly arrived: "Though the world is my oyster, it’s only a shell..." Two old friends conversed, one real, one imaginary. Continually the needle swiftly sped along its appointed groove.

"Well, it’s damn decent of you to pop in like this; sit down and have a gin." He looked uncomfortable in his English clothes—the English fish out of water. A mental note to lend him a T-shirt winded around my brain but disappeared somewhere amongst the lyrics.

"Nice weather," he remarked.

"Yes," came the answer, "quite nice actually; not at all like the old country."

"Oh no, actually it’s quiteSunny, not like the old place,” he echoed. “It’s always sunny in Davidson,” I affirmed thoughtfully. “Canadian club love, a place in the country, everyone’s ideal...” sang the vinyl voice.

“Well, how’s it going?” the friend enquired.

“Oh fine, just super actually. Couldn’t be better. I mean all this sun and things. Another gin?”

A sigh, “Not like London of course. No rush here, everyone takes it easy. One has time to ponder. Nice weather. Life, like the proverbial gondola, just glides by.”

“Funny you should mention that,” a sharp retort. “What has happened to the old gusto?”

“Another gin?” I inquired.

Not to be parried, Julian persisted. “God, you were always the one to attack suburban life as some kind of desert unreality; that society was some kind of vast conspiracy plotting to shape individual consciousness to suit its own ends!”

“Oh, the old American Lit. bit,” I admitted uncomfortably. “Come on, man, I have been here for seven months and thoughts like that are old hat, they just aren’t necessary. Let’s not play the British undergraduate part here; that’s the projection of a depressed society. Too much questioning isn’t going to get you anywhere. Look, old chap, we have two lives; the life we learn and the life we live with after that.”

Refusing another drink, Julian turned to the window. As my vision moved from the Englishman in his unsuitable apparel to the sunny day storming through the window, a Robert Browning quote came to mind—“Oh to be in England, now that April is there. And he who ever wakes in England sees some morning unaware.”

The musical message was clear: “This brave new world is not like yesterday, it can take you higher than the Milky Way. Now I’m blinded I can really see.”

“Everything is possible here Jules, that is if one works for it: fast money, fast living, fast food, instant fulfillment! Remember our previous conversation on Herzog—only a special type of lunatic expects to inculcate his principles and to worry about that only leads to the agony of consciousness and a separate being. Oh, we want none of that here.”

As “Street Life” came to its allotted end the voice defied “education is an important key, yes, but the good life is never won by degrees.”

It’s uncanny how clichés can readily pass for thought and, to come to that, vice versa. “Nice weather,” said Julian, “not like the old place,” came the backing vocals.

Highly enriched uranium, instead of low-enriched uranium, as well as another highly radioactive material, thorium. If many high temperature gas-cooled reactors are operating in the future, the number of highly radioactive shipments will increase significantly.

Dangers of Radioactivity

When the heavy atoms used as fuel inside a nuclear reactor are split, radioactive nuclides are produced which are the unstable twins of natural elements. As they decay into more stable forms, these nuclides emit harmful high-energy rays and particles of three major types: alpha particles, beta particles, and gamma rays.

Alpha particles are the most massive of the three, but are the slowest and least penetrating. They can be stopped by a piece of paper or a thickness equal to the outer layer of skin. Precisely because their penetration distance is slight, alpha particles are the most energy intensive of the three. Damage to humans will result when alpha-emitting substances are ingested or inhaled and therefore brought into contact with internal tissues and organs.

Beta particles can be stopped by a thin sheet of metal or even clothing, and the top layer of skin will reduce their effects on a living organism which has received only external exposure.

Gamma rays are essentially extremely energetic x-rays which can pass right through a human being, causing much disruption to tissues along the way. Because of the differences in mass, electric charge, and energy which characterize these particles and rays, radiation from different nuclei will cause different kinds of damage to living organisms. Some will harm thousands of cells, others will destroy only a few.

As high energy particles emitted by radionuclides bounce off other material particles in their path, they transfer their energy to the bombarded matter. In living cells this radiation knocks molecules away from cell structures and can break chromosomes, thus producing genetic mutations. Damage caused in this way may affect reproductive cells and produce mutations that will be passed on to future generations in the form of fetal and infant deaths, and physical and mental deformities. Damage to other tissues can cause various forms of leukemia, cancer of the nervous system, bone, thyroid, or lung cancer, miscarriages, cataracts, shortening of life span, and damage to unborn children.

Both high and low level radiation doses can cause harm. The effects are cumulative and may not even become evident for long periods of time. In addition, some groups of people, such as the very young and the very old, are more susceptible to injury than others. Certain organs in the body, such as those in the reproductive system, are also especially sensitive to radiation exposure.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week’s issue.