Ss —92— December 15, 1978. ... without aid private schools fear losing students (Continued from page 1)

About Davidson, Spencer explained that the aid program is “important in that it gives more North Carolina students a chance
of coming to Davidson. Without the program, it would have tipped the scales for some of our students to go
to other schools.”

The Executive Director of the North Carolina Association of Independent Colleges and Universities echoed Spencer’s comments. James Olliver said, “Clearly,
research and statistics have shown that when tuition increases, you have a shift in enrollment. That’s been shown in study
after study after study. You’re going to lose students (without additional aid) simply because the gap between public and private
school will increase. Not having the increase will hurt students’ choice of attending a private school.”

Private school leaders argue that any increase in the aid program will ultimately benefit the private students and the state.
The letter sent to ABC by Olliver explains, “This year the independent sector will save the State nearly $53 million—the
difference between the average grant of $600 provided to each of the approximately 26,000 undergraduate North Carolinians enrolled in private
colleges versus the $2800 per-student subsidy for baccalaureate education in the University system.”

Put simply, it costs North Carolina an average of $2800 to send a student to a state school. But it
costs the state only $600 to send a student to a private school. Without the tuition grants to private students,
though, many students that go to private colleges would go to public schools at a much higher cost to the
state. Olliver also said that the aid program may “in theory” help non-North Carolina students attending private schools in the
state by allowing more scholarship money to be available. “But our statistics only show that the institutions have continued to
increase support for in-state and out-of-state students.”

Cautious optimism

Private school leaders are cautiously optimistic about the passage of the increased aid proposal. Olliver stated, “Obviously we think that
our request is responsible, so we'll see.” Spencer, who is the immediate past president of the group of private colleges
and universities, noted, “We’re optimistic about the legislature seeing the...

Robertson New President

Pidgeon defeats Summerell

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Julia Pidgeon defeated J.J. Summerell in the race for Social Vice-President of the Union in Tuesday’s elections. As Social Vice-President,
Pidgeon will be responsible for organizing and coordinating “big” weekends—Homecoming, Midwinters, and Spring Frolics—and other Union social activities as well.
Pidgeon hopes to increase class unity by organizing separate events for each class during the year. She also plans to
incorporate some activities at the Lake Campus into the Spring Frolics weekend.

One of Pidgeon’s main objectives for the coming year is to encourage students to take part in planning and participating
in Union activities. She feels that more student work and input at the organizational level will benefit these activities. “Once
you get people involved in something, they will support it,” she stated.

Jim Robertson was unopposed for President of the Union, and Jamie Ashmore was the sole candidate for the position of
Co-Curricular Vice-President.

Robertson views his role as coordinator of Union events as an important factor in the determination of the future activity
of the Union. “The Union has grown tremendously over the last few years,” Robertson said, “and it has reached a
point where it could level off, or continue to grow. We must encourage freshmen and sophomores to become involved in
special projects and committees. The goal of my office is to further that aim.”

Although he works closely with the Union Board, Union Policy Committee, and other committees, Robertson feels his work is “primarily
organizational. I provide energy and direction for the Union’s programs.” Robertson admits his is “a hard job, but there are
lots of rewards.”

THE VILLAGE STORE

Puzzles
Stationery
Tree Trimmers

The Letter-perfect Gift

There’s a gift that’s as distinctive as the person you have in mind. It’s bright and bouncy. It’s sophisticated and
cute and colorful. It’s one of the special designs from our collection of fine Hallmark writing papers. $1.25 to $4.00

PEANUTS Characters: Cops. © 1968, 1985 United Feature Syndicate, Inc.__ Ashmore, like Robertson, was unopposed in his bid for office.
His function as Co-Curricular Vice-President of the Union is similar to Pidgeon’s. Ashmore will focus on cultural events, however, while
the Social Vice-President coordinates those activities which deal with entertainment. Ashmore also urges participation in Union cultural events, “We need
people to come to us and say, ‘I've got a good idea,’” he stated. Interviews for the chairmanship of various
cultural events committees will be held during the third week of January, Ashmore said.

Spencer and Olliver both expressed concern about the divisiveness that has surfaced between public and private schools whenever the aid
program is discussed. During a telephone interview from his Raleigh office, Olliver was asked if the unanimity of the UNC
board bothered him. He replied, “Yes, it does. The UNC board has taken this opposing posture every time the issue
has come up.” Spencer also replied that the issue has divided the public and private sectors. “I think there has
been an adversary relationship. Any permanent formula would take this thing out of the realm of controversy.”

The permanent formula that Spencer suggests has also been met with disapproval by the UNC board. When the private colleges
asked for an endorsement of the $200 increase from the UNC board, they additionally requested that a permanent formula be
established. But the request was unanimously denied. Olliver defended the proposal, however. “A permanent formula would resolve the conflict which
is apparently dividing the higher education community.”

The private schools suggested a formula that would vary as the costs for educating a student in the state system
varies. The formula called for aid to private students up to one-half of the average per capita costs to the
state for each undergraduate enrolled in the UNC system. It costs the state an average of $2800 for every student
in the UNC system. If the private schools' formula was adopted at one-half the cost, the maximum suggested, for instance,
the state would provide $1400 for each private student. If the cost of attending a state school jumped to $3000,
then the state would automatically provide $1500 to each private student.

But the UNC board's letter to the Advisory Budget Commission says, “Although offered as a ‘permanent solution,’ that policy is
not invested with any characteristic that would bind those benefitting from it to seek no change in it in future
years.”

Back to legislature

Once again, however, the legislature will have the final say. Presently, an ad-hoc legislative committee is preparing to make a
report on a permanent formula. According to Olliver, the Wynne-Pugh Committee was “given the explicit responsibility of formulating a concept
of a permanent operating principle.” Olliver said that committee had heard “considerable public testimony,” and was “quite close to” preparing
a final report for presentation to the legislature.

The constitutionality of providing state funds to private schools was tested in early 1977 during a lawsuit. A three-judge panel
ruled that the grants were constitutional. But one of the judges issued a warning to the private schools: If state
subsidies become too large, “the power to withdraw them will be the power to control the private schools they benefit.”
Olliver said he never expects such a development, however, “There’s always this confusion about pulling money away from private schools.
Clearly, if the money was taken away for some reason, it would certainly have some adverse impact on enrollment. But
this is highly unlikely. The state realizes that it is getting a real bargain for the state of North Carolina.”

No predictions

Exactly what will happen when the legislature convenes is impossible to predict. Members of the general assembly may follow the
national trend to reduce spending, and not grant any increase to the students of private schools. Or the legislature may
continue its seven-year-old tradition of assisting private school students, and increase aid. Whatever happens, though, about 26,000 private school students
in North Carolina, including over 400 at Davidson, will be affected to some extent. Just how much they will be
affected can be known after the battle ends sometime in early 1979.
