'November 3, 1978

Opinion

State institutions will require federal help

By TIM DWIGHT © PIRG Columnist

Institutions have always been notorious places to keep people. The impersonal way workers treat inmates in these structures breeds mistreatment
and injustice. This is not surprising since these places are created to “take care of” the people the rest of
our society cannot handle. What is done to the inhabitants of institutions is a reflection of what we do when
we try to push them out of our sight. Heinous crimes are committed in these places and until recently little
has been done about it.

The world out there

Davidson PIRG. Retarded persons were tied to their beds at night because there weren’t enough people to care for them,
and less than 50 cents per patient per day was spent on food. In New York’s Willowbrook School for the
Mentally Retarded, every patient contracted hepatitis within six months after arriving because of unsanitary conditions. In Texas juvenile detention facilities,
staff brutality was actually encouraged by those in authority. Inmates were sprayed at close range with tear gas for such
reasons as refusing to work, or attempting to flee a beating.

In the Oklahoma State Penitentiary system, overcrowding was so bad that people were forced to sleep in stairwells. The lucky
ones were able to share (with three others) a six-foot by six-foot cell that had no ventilation system and no
hot water. Inmates were sprayed with mace if they sang loud, cursed guards, or refused to shave. In three years,
one facility in Oklahoma had 19 violent deaths, 40 stabbings, and 44 serious beatings.

This kind of injustice cannot continue if we wish to go on calling ours a free society. How can we
criticize others when we have been so unresponsive in protecting our own citizens’ rights?

Ever since a 1971 suit challenging the constitutionality of conditions in Alabama’s mental hospitals, the U.S. Attorney General has been
successful in getting relief for inmates forced to live in these conditions. In this Alabama suit, the Attorney General was
brought in to assist in evaluating the hospitals’ treatment programs. This suit opened the door for further Justice Department involvement
and in nearly every case in which they were involved after that, including those conditions cited above, the courts ordered
massive relief and the elimination of bad conditions.

In the face of these successes, two other cases came up which undermined the Justice Department’s authority to intervene. A
district judge in Maryland and a federal court in Montana ruled that the Attorney General did not have jurisdiction in
these areas. These courts determined that the States, and not the Federal government, should take care of these injustices. Subsequently,
a bill (S. 1393 in the Senate and H.R. 9400 in the House) was drafted to make explicit and unquestionable
the authority of the Attorney General to intervene in cases of injustice in a state institution. This bill covers controversial
areas and is not assured of passage. If you think this bill should be passed, then it would be wise
to contact your representatives and let them know how you feel.

The Davidsonian

By EDWARD L. PALMER Professor of Psychology

November could become a barometer-month for the role of government in the future of children’s television advertising. In the spring
of 1977, two similar petitions were submitted to the Federal Trade Commission -- each requesting regulatory action in children’s television
advertising. Action for Children’s Television was requesting a ban on candy advertising during or adjacent to children’s programs, basing its
request on the belief that “selling candy to impressionable children without warnings of sugar’s potential health hazards constitutes unfair and
misleading advertising.” The second petition, submitted by the Center for Science in the Public Interest, requested that health warnings or
sugar content disclosures be required in all child-food-product commercials in which sugar was a primary ingredient.

In July 1977, eleven national organizations met with FTC chairman Pertschuk to express their petition endorsement. From the wide ideological
diversity within the organizations represented (e.g., American Academy of Pediatrics, Black Child Welfare League, National Women’s Political Caucus, etc.), it
was clear that public concern was strong and widespread. FTC staff investigation was initiated and in February of this year,
the staff released its study report and proposed:

(1) a ban on “all televised advertising for any product which is directed to audiences composed of a significant proportion
of children who are too young to understand the selling purpose of the advertising” (age 8 and younger),

(2) a ban on “televised advertising directed to audiences composed of a significant proportion of older children (age 9-11) for
sugared food products, the consumption of which poses the most serious dental health risks,”

(3) a requirement that “televised advertising directed to audiences composed of a significant proportion of older children (9-11) for sugared
food products include health warnings or sugar content disclosures.”Sugared food products not included in (2) be balanced by nutritional and/or
health services.” “Significant proportion of children” was generally defined in terms of children comprising over 50 percent of the total
audience, but there was a consideration of what the commission termed “a significant proportion, short of a majority” -- a
40 percent child audience. The target programming periods cited were weekend morning programs, after school programs, and children’s specials.

Response to the staff report was mixed -- both within and beyond the FTC. Hearings with the Justice Department, the
Federal Trade Commission, industry, research, and public witnesses were scheduled and held, and general public comment was solicited until mid-October.
If the timetable remains intact, late November would be the point at which rulemaking would occur, and in the weeks
preceding that anticipated event, many cross-currents have been developing.

The American Academy of Pediatrics during its annual convention in Chicago issued an October 23 statement that it will propose
a complete ban on television advertising directed at young children if broadcasters do not voluntarily curtail “commercial exploitation of children
for profit.” Industry and broadcasting representatives favor a continuation of self-regulation through the National Association of Broadcasters and the Council
of Better Business Bureaus. As the time period narrows, the strength of the cross-currents intensifies.

One of the most recent industry strategies has come from the Kellogg Company -- acting on behalf of four national
advertiser trade associations. In a November ’77 letter to the head of the Food and Drug Administration, Pertschuk made reference
to his “conviction” about the “unfairness of children’s television advertising.” Kellogg Company has obtained a copy of that letter and
has sent it to Federal Judge Gerhard Gesell with a request that Pertschuk be disqualified from participation in the rulemaking
vote on children's television advertising. If Pertschuk were disqualified, it would be highly unlikely that the three voting commissioners would
sustain a decision in favor of the ban.

Some long-time, Washington-based veterans of this issue predict that a ban will not occur and that the future of children’s
television advertising is more likely to feature techniques and educational approaches designed to enable young children to recognize ads and
learn the basics of their selling intent. It’s a little early to predict the outcome, but the barometer reading should
become more intelligible later this month.

Whether, or to what extent, a sense of child-centered responsibility will develop within the institutional cross-currents may remain less intelligible.

Scapegoats and a learning experience (Continued from page 4)

Had the Trustees been willing to listen, he could have convinced them of this fact two-and-a-half weeks ago. Had the
Trustees been willing to listen, perhaps their decision would have been different. With every right to be embittered by the
decision that was made, Thompson has instead chosen to work for the best interests of the college, to help put
a 100-watt station on its feet, and to stop trying to block other students from going back to work for
the college station. That took character.

Bruce Brown’s handling of the WDAV issue has proved his mettle as a leader. Brown’s Student Government Association has been
both visible and vocal this term. For the most part, it has acted effectively and responsibly. And its continuing WDAV
influence can only be thought of as constructive.

Finally, Phil Duncan has done a good job in seeing that The Davidsonian’s stories have been both accurate and fair.
He and his staff have made mistakes -- I certainly have -- but I also hope we’ve learned some. And
I hope the other organizations have learned things, too, because scapegoats are uglier than regular goats and we'd do well
to get rid of them.

Letter: Successful book sale

To the Editor:

We would like to thank the students, members of the community, and parents who made Saturday’s APO Book Sale a
success. The amazing total of eight hundred and fifty pounds of books were sold in three hours, raising eighty-five dollars
for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation in Charlotte. Our chapter will match this amount making the total contribution one hundred and
seventy dollars. We hope you all found some bargains or long-wanted “goodies.” Thanks again for helping us to help a
worthy cause.

John B. Parkerson, Jr.
President, and the Members of the No Chi Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity
