Math Professor King sits quietly at his desk as the bright morning sun plays upon the back of his neck.
If the student paper he’s looking over is full of dumb mistakes, he won’t blame the student, he'll blame bad
high school preparation. [David Litaker]

King feels like a hermit, but loves math work
By ESTHER BRUCE
Asst. Features Editor

“I’m sort of a hermit out here at Davidson. I love it,” conceded Associate Professor of Math L.R. King. King
has strong ties to Davidson. His wife is a Davidson girl, born and raised, and he himself graduated from here.
The majority of the couple's relatives live relatively close by. “Our children have grandparents next door. Within a 200-mile radius,
I have my three siblings,” he said. “It's a pretty big and active family.”

King is from Greensboro. He, his wife, and two children often visit town or there during vacations. He seems to
like his work well enough, not being the sort to leave his work behind him at 5 pm. Much of
his free time is spent with math. “I do some work in mathematics not at Davidson and that’s fun. I
consider my work my hobby,” he said.

Teaching must get boring: the same thing day after day, term after term. “I sometimes get bored with what I
do because I’m not doing it well. Teaching can be frustrating.” King said he didn’t blame his students for not
being able to understand a particular concept. “What bothers me most is that the reason why they're not understanding something
is the inadequate high school preparation.”

He does get away from math occasionally though. He plays racquetball and handball regularly. He said it helped him let
out his frustration. “I go to the gym each day at lunchtime. It keeps me on an even keel.” However
much he may like Davidson, he’s just taken up backpacking. “I do like to get away.”

Master pianist taps Debussy
The soft languid flow of Claude Debussy’s great French compositions will come to life under the sensitive fingers of Daniel
Ericourt next Monday at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. As part of the Chamber Music Series, the concert will be free
to anyone who wants to hear this personal friend of the late Debussy. Ericourt has appeared in hundreds of concerts
all over the world, even performing with the composer himself.

Sam berates abuses
[Continued from page 10]
in Congress, and the more he gets, the safer we'll be.” Off the cuff: “National election day should be the
same day as the date for filing income taxes.” Tong Sun Park and the Korea scandal: “It will never be
as big as Watergate. I hope all the guilty...

M*A*S*H will top film season
A Pop Film Committee Meeting may resemble some rational process for the selection of movies in principle, but in reality,
it comes closer to the Davidson College Heated Debate Club. Just about everyone has his pet films, and, if he
is on the Film Committee, he will put up a determined fight to have his movie placed on next quarter’s
fare. Here are some random notes about some winners and losers.

Pop films are selected by a democratic (or maybe oligarchic) vote of the Pop Film Committee’s members. The films are
selected for each quarter, so last week the committee decided what you’ll be seeing during the spring.

As a member of the committee and a totally biased judge, I think they came up with a pretty good
list, though not as good, of course, as it would have been if I alone had been allowed to make
the selection. What movies finally come to...Davidson depends on their availability, so don’t blame me if your Pet Picture doesn’t
show up. Robert Altman's M*A*S*H is my pick for the season, and the objections some people raised about it being
too “bloody” or “not as good as the TV show” seem immature to me. Altman's anti-war message is clothed in
the gore that flows over the operating table, and it is left up to the viewer to ask where all
these bodies are coming from. A very subtle message in a very funny film makes this a winner.

Popcorn in the Aisles
By ROBERT BOWIE
Assistant Features Editor

Next down the line is One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, which won the Academy Award over Altman’s Nashville. Jack
Nicholson’s performance is a sight to behold, though I’m not sure the film deserved all the honors heaped upon it.
There is a really funny scene in which a ward of drunken loonies tries to hide out in a closet,
and, overdone as it may be, I think Cuckoo’s Nest rightly criticizes the tolerance of our society toward lobotomies and
electric shock treatment.

Islands In the Stream is a rousing movie that contains George C. Scott’s best performance since Patton. It’s not very
faithful to Hemingway, though. The Sailor Who Fell From Grace With the Sea may provide just the sort of mildly
naughty entertainment needed for a box office hit. Murder by Death I saw last year and have completely forgotten, which
should tell you something about my attitude towards Neil Simon’s comedies. Diamonds are Forever offers some relief to those of
us in Bond-age to the 007 series. I don’t know quite what to make of my notes which say “some
Pink Panther movie” is going to be ordered. Woody Allen fans, eat your hearts out. Steven Spielberg’s Jaws got chewed
up by the critics when it was first released, but now they tell us it was pretty good after all.
A whole bunch of other films got on a secondary list to be selected according to availability and cost, though
Stanley Kubrick’s Barry Lyndon doesn’t stand much of a chance with a rental fee of over $400. Now if only
we could get them to show the Texas Chain Saw Massacre as a Fine Film.

Congressmen are exposed, and I hope they all get beat in the next election. An American congressman should never accept
money from a foreign nation.

Television in the courts and Congress: They're all so busy (Congress), I think it would be a mistake to televise
it. I think the American people would be highly disillusioned. Television should stay out of court because judgment is the
duty of the judge and twelve jurors, not the general public.

The Nixon tapes: Why didn’t Nixon destroy the tapes? “Mr. Jaworski came to the same conclusion I did. Nixon didn’t
think anybody could take them away from him.”

In a closing statement, the senator urged the student audience to become involved in politics, especially on the national level,
for so much of the future depends on it. Good people who want to stay away from the evils of
Washington are just hurting themselves by not turning things around. “I am an incorrigible optimist,” he said.

Soviet songs reach states

The colorful thick sounds of Russian peasant song are now being heard beyond the bounds of the iron curtain. On
their first United States tour, the acclaimed Moscow Chorale has been booked to appear at Davidson at 8:15 pm on
February 10 in Love Auditorium. This group of 35 recognized soloists who banded together in 1972 will also perform the
music of Cashwin and Poulenc. Their work is not only an experience in sound but in theater. Tickets are $5
or free with I.D.
