February 24, 1978

THE FIVE cent hike on canned soft drinks brought some comments even more colorful than this one. According to Manager
of the Student Store Peter Nicholls, steel costs forced Coca Cola's first price increase in five years. Ironically, Nicholls says
most complaints have come from the faculty. [Gregg Strader]

Lottery kinks concern Terry
[Continued from page 1]

"Get into a house by next fall or winter," due to houses raising their ceilings or as shifting occurs. Terry
expressed his apologies and said cards will be used instead of sheets of paper next year because cards are easier
to shuffle. Bridges made the general observation that houses did not fill up as soon as many people thought they
would. "Some students were scared they would not get into a specific house because it was so popular. Students therefore
selected into other houses," she said.

Terry commented, "There were a few surprises. There was less blocking and more single shots than I expected. This could
reflect two or three things. Either students were more definite on where they wanted to eat or students figured ‘suiciding’
was the best way to get somewhere--anywhere--or houses worked harder to recruit specific people or a combination of these."

Terry added, "The thing that concerns me the most is I get the idea that there was more discouraging this
year as we came down to the wire." In order to reduce this, Terry said, "I hope we will have
a more explicit dos-and-don'ts kind of procedure in the period before self-selection itself." He hopes to establish a group of
students, drawn from Patterson Court Council, to monitor the process, receive complaints, and take initial action. Terry would like to
see more students involved in the self-selection process in general. "My philosophy is the more students can do in this
situation, the better it will be," he said. He feels there is sometimes an attitude of administration versus students, an
"us" and "them" attitude. "I don’t like that mentality. Self-selection becomes a game," he remarked.

Terry hopes to present an "updated" self-selection system to the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) by the first
or second Monday of Spring term. According to Bridges, minor changes proposed last spring for this year's process were not
worked out and were not adopted until the last minute. Terry commented, "The CCRL itself spends much too much time
on self-selection. I hope we can agree on a procedure and then try it for a year or two to
see how it works. Then we can go on to meddle in someone else's affairs. It's like a bad stew.
The more you stir it, the worse it gets."

Another major problem with self-selection is overcrowding, although the problem was not as acute this year due to several factors.
According to Terry, forty freshmen did not participate in self-selection. Bridges mentioned, "There are fewer people on the waiting lists
than last year. I think a lot of this is due to the popularity of Rusk House." The freshman class
is smaller than this year's sophomore class which also helped alleviate the problem. The scheduled construction of the Commons, a
large cafeteria for freshmen designed to replace Bailey and Richards, will help to diminish overcrowding according to Terry. It will
serve 400 to 600 students and will have kitchen and storage facilities for at least that number. It will be
"an expandable building," said Terry. The Trustees have recently made it possible to begin work on the plans for the
building. The commons should be ready by 1980 according to Terry. "Just when we will drive in the first nail,
I can't say, but we expect to start by fall or a little later this year," said Terry.

Lounge improvements begin
[Continued from page 1]

Dorm lounge improvement plans is student responsibility. The greatest need for this to work is for students to take more
pride and take care of the furniture, added Nicholls. "The lounges are a result of their use of them; not
the fault of the people who initially provide the money or of the custodians," she commented. The RHC has recommended
steps to be taken with the help of the SGA to protect the repaired lounges. Business Manager Robert A. Currie
pointed out that with all three dorm committee members living in the dorm, they would be more alert to vandalism
and could possibly curb it.or recover any stolen property. Nicholls emphasized, however, that it will have to work like the
Honor Code. "There will have to be more students who want it to work than those who don't. The students
who care have got to make it known that they do." Brown pointed out that a public campaign to make
the students aware of their responsibility would probably begin spring term. Also, he said that work will begin spring term
to review each dorm lounge and make suggestions to Nicholls for needed improvements. Brown encouraged all students who are interested
in this to get involved; to make realistic suggestions, beginning spring term, that will make the lounges function as they
were originally designed. Currie pointed out that by having an active Dorm Social Committee, students are more aware of what
purpose the dorm lounge can serve. He concluded that these efforts must be a continuous thing year after year. Hopefully,
each spring before students leave, they can give ideas for improvements or changes in the lounges.

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday - 9 a.m. to 12 a.m.

Students support Senate candidates
By STEVE AUSTIN
Staff Writer

A number of Davidson students are involved in campaign activities for candidates in the North Carolina Senatorial race. Jesse Helms,
the incumbent Senator who has been ranked the most conservative Congressman in Washington by Common Cause, stands unopposed for the
Republican nomination. Facing him are four major candidates who will compete for the Democratic nomination in the May 2 primary.
Lawrence Davis is a state senator from Winston-Salem; John Ingram serves presently as State Insurance Commissioner; Luther Hodges, a Charlotte
banker, is a son of a former North Carolina governor; and McNeill Smith represents the Greensboro area in the state
Senate.

Senior Starkey Sharpe is coordinator for Helms' youth campaign in the Charlotte area. According to polls conducted earlier this year,
Sharpe believes that about a quarter of Davidson's North Carolina residents will vote for Helms. Sharpe labels Helms "somewhat of
an egalitarian" since he disapproves of government intervention and "special rights and privileges for groups." Sharpe also believes that many
Helms supporters hesitate to support him publicly because he is "a little bit of a big mouth in expressing himself."

Though Helms stands unopposed for the nomination, there is dissension within the Republican party due to ideological differences, according to
president of Young Republicans Randy Haynes. "The Young Republicans have not endorsed Helms and there will be no formal support
by the club," said Haynes.

Jim Ervin, president of the Young Democrats and state youth coordinator for Lawrence Davis, believes that when it comes to
politics, "Most people like to make up their own minds." As a result, he is not planning any major campus
campaign except distribution of material at schools to North Carolina residents.

Senior Rick Fay, youth coordinator for Luther Hodges in this area, feels that this candidate has about as "good a
chance as any." He believes that Hodges’ moderate politics and his father’s reputation give him a good chance against Helms.
Fay says that Hodges’ business connections will help rather than hurt him since "what is good for business in North
Carolina is good for North Carolina."

Rees Jenkins, the representative for McNeill Smith on campus, considers Smith "one of the more progressive people in North Carolina
politics." According to Jenkins, Smith has the reputation for championing unpopular causes, especially in the area of civil rights. Jenkins
hopes to involve both faculty and students in presenting Smith's candidacy during spring term. Freshman Peter Jordan, nephew of Smith,
commented, "The things he’s trying to do represent the needs of the people better than anyone else. Unfortunately, Uncle Mac
is not well known and the people view Helms as Mr. Clean."

Ervin said that the Young Democrats will not support a candidate before the primary, but the consensus among the different
factions of the party is that the group will stand together against Helms. Mott Blair, a freshman and cousin of
Luther Hodges, emphasized, "No matter who wins the primaries, the main thing is to beat Helms."

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
