The Davidsonian
April 7, 1978

News — at a glance

Union Board sponsors fair

Taking advantage of that special big weekend atmosphere, the Union Board will launch the First Annual Spring Frolics Crafts Fair this Saturday. The fair is scheduled to last from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. on the Chambers front lawn and will include work by Davidson students and outside artists from across the Carolinas.

“The Crafts Fair is a way the Union hopes to include both social and cultural programming into big weekends instead of just having a big social scene,” said Union Co-curricular Vice-President Amanda Hall. “It also gives the students a chance to either exhibit their work, or to buy someone else’s,” she continued.

Every imaginable art form including glass-blowing and calligraphy will be on display. Music and rides also will be offered. Some of the artists include Jason Noble exhibiting his paintings and prints; Ron Chapple with his photographs; Margaret Miles, jewelry; Rusk Scholar Liz Woodham-Smith, sculpture; Gifford Piercy, drawings and sculpture; John Christian, pottery; and Ginny Newell, prints and pottery. The fair will offer “some painless art education,” according to Union Board President Mary Jo Clark.

Election returns announced

Of the campus elections held Tuesday, only the race for the Council on Campus and Religious Life resulted in a run-off. The run-off for the two seats was held today, but results were not available by press time. Bill Barnett, Whit Boone, and Ralph Yeilding were the three remaining candidates.

The President-elect of the class of '81 is Greg Zeph. The senators next year will be John Davis and Newman Yeilding. Sara Stoneburner was elected President of the class of '80, and Jim Haynes and Jeff Stidham took the Senatorial elections. In the class of '79, Ralph Yeilding won the Presidency. The new Senators will be Randy Haynes and Helen Huie.

Race for accommodations

A reminder to seniors about rooms for guests for graduation. Hurry. Rooms are at a premium due to the scheduling of the Charlotte Motor Speedway's World 600 Week, which promoters expect will be the biggest Auto Event since the Indy 500. Rooms are vanishing fast. If anyone has made tentative reservations for a dorm room for graduation, he should contact Scotty Nicholls to confirm his reservation. Her office is also keeping check on available motel rooms in the Charlotte Area. Call extension 341 for information. Juniors make a note, the World 600 will conflict with graduation again next year.

Contributors: Marshall Waddell and Charles Erwin.

Rusk Scholars comment (Continued from page 1)

know why. I feel very safe.” Simon Adam Curtis, also from Putney, is undecided which university to attend and when to go, but he hopes to study English literature and drama. He concentrated on English literature, history, and economics at St. Paul’s. At Davidson, he is taking Drama 21 and “reluctantly” Problems of Philosophy. He felt the Rusk scholars were “left in a lurch” as far as course selection.

Curtis has visited New York City before and he feels, “It is illuminating to see another part of America, because I did feel all America was like New York City. The first day I came here I was shocked. It looked like only one building.” But Curtis added, “Everything has been made easy for us here and we've always had something to do.” Curtis commented, “The Honor Code seems to relieve a lot of the pressure you get at universities.” Curtis eats at PAX and plays on their softball team. He said, “We had a terrible defeat the time I played. It was great fun—I got a softball in the shin.” He does like the eating house system which he termed “homey.”

Elizabeth Woodham-Smith is from Chelsea, London. She was “Head Girl,” or president, of her school and she studies English literature, art and art history, and history. She will attend Saint Hilda's College, Oxford University this fall to study English Language and literature. This term she is taking Drama 21 and Modern Poetry in English which she finds “very good.” She is also studying sculpture on her own, sculpting in clay abstractly. She plays the piano, especially ColePorter and Mozart, swims, plays tennis, takes ballet, and enjoys theatre, film, and visual arts. She is also working on lighting for the drama production. Eating at Rusk, she finds it "quite cozy with very good food, but I would have preferred to be in a coed, larger house so I could meet more people."

Woodham-Smith finds Davidson students "preoccupied with their own goals and they don’t seem to be very aware of what’s going on in the world."

Sian Roberts, from Englefield Green, Surrey, near London, will probably attend Durham University in northern England next year for studies in geography. Here at Davidson, she’s taking Edible Wild Plants, International Politics, and The U.S. Since 1921, which she’s "enjoying a lot." She’s taking Mountaineering I, Canoeing I, clogging class, and she swims before breakfast. Although she "likes parties," she feels she doesn’t know that many people yet. She commented, "It’s nice to be in an eating house. Food is one of my main interests, puddings (desserts) especially. People are nice. They teach me how to get extra dessert."

Roberts is "passionately Welsh" and very interested in Welsh culture. About Davidson, she said, "I’m enjoying it. It has its ups and downs. Everything we get to do has to be on campus, though, because we can’t get off campus." She's interested in traveling through the U.S. and she'd "love to see a desert and a grizzly bear."

Oliver Jonathon Keen specialized in geography, Greek, and Latin at St. Paul’s School. Next year, he will be attending Keble College at Oxford University to study geography. Here he is taking English Literature Since 1832 and sophomore level Humanities. Although he feels there is a "mixing of academic standards," Keen commented, "Teachers I’ve encountered are generally good." Of Humes he said, "The syllabus is extremely interesting, but it’s a bit too superficial."

Keen is eating at F&M this term. "I’m making some good friends." He has done a radio show and worked for ARA Slater Food Services at the banquet for Senator Charles Goodell. Keen likes theatre, films, and music. "I play the guitar and piano a bit, and I worship people like Dylan, Neil Young, Springsteen, and The Clash," he said. Keen said he loves the setting of the College, but "It was a great relief to get away to the mountains last weekend. I don't think I could stand four years in a place like this. I like the bustling city."

"I find students here somewhat naive in their relations to ideological issues. A bit middle class apathetic. Project Peace has very poor response, I expected more of that sort of thing," said Keen. "I’ve learned what affluence means here. It's a bit too affluent here for me," commented Keen. He said, "I have socialist sympathies, but I’m not sure which system is best. It’s an important question I haven't answered yet."

We give help. Not sermons. One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don't preach. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and VD treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you a sermon is one of them.

CALL US AT 377-0841.
Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte
951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, NC 28202