The Davidsonian
February 24, 1978

Philip D. Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager
Volume LXVII, Number Eighteen
February 24, 1978

Student Trustees

Why are there no students on the Board of Trustees? Though no one seems to have given the question much
consideration, it certainly is a valid one. In fact, careful consideration of the matter reveals that it would be in
the best interests of the College if students were put on the Board of Trustees.

The Board of Trustees at Davidson may well be the most important group associated with the school. They set the
policies for the College. They approve the long-range goals for the College. They are expected to handle any crisis at
the College (such as the recent Linden affair). In effect, they are the main decision-making body of Davidson. Why then,
are students not allowed any input in this process?

The case for having at least three elected students on the Board of Trustees is strong indeed. First, students are
more familiar with the day-to-day happenings at Davidson than anyone else. They attend the classes, play in the overcrowded gym,
eat in the overcrowded eating houses, and moan in despair when the basketball team loses. The Board’s actions affect every
action of these students. Why then shouldn’t the students be given a “say so” in setting the policies which will
affect them so greatly? Hopefully, the Trustees want to know how students feel about campus problems and policies. What better
way for them to find out how students feel than to give them votes in the decision process?

Secondly, with the present policy of no students on the Board, do the students really have any influence at all?
Of course not. Students can attend SGA receptions for the Trustees and speak to the Trustees about problems they see,
but how much effect does that have? Certainly, the Trustees are receptive to student feelings, but in the long run,
that is only one of their considerations. They also have to consider the Alumni, the Faculty, the Administration, etc. Thus,
there is truly no one who can speak for the students. There is no one who really knows the ins
and outs of student sentiment. Nothing short of full voting rights will serve to satisfy this need.

Having one student on the Board would not be adequate. He would be overwhelmed by committee assignments. With at least
three different committees working on crucial problems, how would the student know which to choose? The optimum solution would be
to elect three rising seniors to serve on the Board every year. The elections could be held late in spring
term with the winners to serve the following year. Seniors would be the best representatives to the Board because their
experience would allow them to put any problems into some perspective. Three would be a good number because that would
allow students sufficient representation on committees without flooding the Board. It is also imperative that the students be allowed to
vote. What good is representation if they have no influence?

Student representation on College Trustee Boards is becoming more and more common. Vanderbilt and Wake Forest both report having added
students to their Trustees with very favorable results. Student representation certainly adds diversification to the Boards. Student representation is a
concept for which the time is long overdue. Hopefully, Davidson will soon make it a reality.

— Bill Barnett

To the Editor:

The entire ruckus about Davidson’s indirect investments in South Africa deserves scrutiny. With fleeting mention to the possibility of stock
voting rights, Dave Nash proposes reinvesting away from S.A. Will “giving up” investments tainted by profits from S.A. do anything
to halt Apartheid? I doubt it. Consider the results, even if similar action were taken by a large number of
investors. Stocks are sold, other people buy them, perhaps at a lower price, and returns on those stocks, if anything,
go up. It is possible, of course, that stock prices would drop enough to spur controlling interests to change corporate
policy, but it seems unlikely prices would drop that far. Too many investors would have to be unprofitably moral. As
long as companies invested in S.A. make profits there, they will probably remain. Apartheid persists largely because it is profitable.

I doubt that Davidson’s “moral integrity” compels it to allow the most profitable investors for others who may be less
scrupulous. If Davidson and other investors really wish to...

Letter to the Editor

S. Africa: Opinion

Christian ‘Apologetics’

By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Editorial Page Editor

In past weeks the editorial pages of The Davidsonian have been splashed with opinions concerning the “Christian character” clause contained
in the criteria for choosing Stuart scholars. The Stuart family’s prerogative to establish their own selection criteria has not been...disputed.
Rather, the College’s use of such a scholarship has. If potential non-Christian applicants have not been discouraged by Davidson’s Statement
of Purpose in the past (and they should not have been), then why should they ignore the school because the
Stuart Scholarship program (one of many scholarship programs) encourages Christians to apply? One might argue that the Statement of Purpose
has, in fact, discouraged non-Christians from applying in the past. But does this mean that the Statement of Purpose should
be rewritten? I should hope not.

Concerning the social setting: some would like to see the “Christians Only” criterion rejected. But what would happen if Davidson
rejected a scholarship program for Blacks only? We would be called racists, and you can count on that. Dr. Park’s
point (The Davidsonian, Feb. 10, 1978) that restrictive scholarships do not exclude anyone from attending Davidson is well taken and
worth repeating. We do all benefit from them as together they attract a more diverse student body. In my mind,
it is the non-Christian who is close-minded if he decides against considering Davidson solely because the Stuart Scholarship is a
Christian scholarship. The Stuart family has every right to include Christian character as a criterion for the selection of scholarship
recipients. And for Davidson to apologize for this criterion or move to have it dropped would be to apologize for
and severely compromise the Christian ideals on which the College was founded.

Human opinion would be quite different if everyone would risk his own: fear prevents some people from including themselves in
the realistic exhibit a high concern for solving the Apartheid problem, even to the point of “sacrificing” profits, they can
attempt economically effective action. By increasing investment in some multinationals until they exert force on corporate decisions through voting rights,
our moral leaders could induce withdrawal. Of course, that would mean lower profits to those corporations. And it would mean
real losses to these well-meaning investors. So who wants to bear the financial burden of withdrawing investment from S.A.? No
one. Which brings us back to the problem that Apartheid is profitable. We don’t know how effective economic sanctions can
be. Indeed, the problem in S.A. is largely political, and our best approach from an economic standpoint may be to
prevent further investment there. But we still won’t know what the best solution to the Apartheid problem really is. I
just ask that we not fool ourselves by thinking we are helping solve the problem by washing our hands of
it, or by sensationalizing its news coverage.

Brian Cooper '78
Davidson College

Devon case open

To the Editor:

This concerns David Taylor’s letter on the Devon case. It is true that there has been confusion between the procedure
for Professor Devon’s dismissal and her teaching ability, but I do not believe anyone is intentionally trying to bias the
situation. While it is also true that a few people delight in criticizing the administration, most of us have better
things to do than play radical by jumping on bandwagons and harassing the administration for no reason. Some of us
are genuinely concerned, perhaps with the Linden affair still in mind, that Devon’s dismissal was prompted by more than professional
criteria. In contrast to Mr. Taylor’s experience, I have found Devon’s lectures extremely effective. But if lecturing quality is indeed
reason for dismissal, then I can think of a few more heads which also should have rolled. It seems highly
possible that Devon’s dismissal was prompted by her somewhat controversial nature, by her differences with the administration, or by the
administration’s hesitation to make a long-term commitment to South Asian Studies by giving tenure in that department. If this is
true, then Devon’s professional reputation has been slandered for unprofessional reasons. I see no reason students should not continue to
question the administration concerning this.

Hunter Jennings '78
Davidson College

Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
DENNIS MCLAWHORN
CHARLES ERWIN

News Editors
LARRY SACHSEN
LEONARD PISANO

Features Editors
DANIEL ROSE
DUPAN

Photography Editors
DAVID ISENHOWER
ANN SHEAFFER

Copy Editor
Assistant Editors
MIKE BRITT
JOHN W. JACKSON
Circulation
BILL BARNETT
JIM ENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

Department assistants:
News — Stephen Gold; Features — Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments — Margaret Bowie, Esther Bruce

The Davidsonian's Editorial Board—the editor, executive editor, senior editors, and editorial page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's lead editorials.
While the editorials reflect an exchange of ideas between all members of the Board, the opinions expressed are those of
the authors and do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the Board.
