April 21, 1978 The Davidsonian IMAC Report

Record turnout votes for All-Stars

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN
Staff Writers

It has been a busy week at old D.C. The last time we checked in the Union there were three different speakers discussing two different things in four different rooms. Bernie and Hogman really enjoyed all of the festivities, but would like to ask one question. Why is it that we go term after term with no interesting guest lecturers and then when we decide to have one, we confuse the program by inviting more than one person at a time? In light of this, we would like to present our “Thoughtful Planning and Organization” Award to all the people who made these programs possible.

We have just finished tabulating the votes for the 1978 All-IMAC Softball team, and the results were very close. We would like to thank all of you that stopped by the 7-11, the post office, the M&M Soda Shop and took the time to fill out a ballot. This was the largest number of people we ever had vote in an All-IMAC contest—the number was close to 800 people. Once again thanks, and without further adieu, here is the Bad Bernard and Hogman “Dream Team.”

1B—Woody Woodall—MacFleet and Stuff
2B—Ron Tunic
SS—Dave Vaughan—Presto's Grill
3B—Gary Joe Stokes—Four Skins
OF—Johnny Old Men Rosenberg
OF—Dartus Rodgers—The OF
OF—Mark Sumwalt—We Funk
OF—Jack Davis—Dartus Tunic
OF—Adrian Wilson—SAE
P—Svend Pedersen—Four Skins
P—Steve Sellers—Dartus Tunic
P—Harris McMurray—MacFleet and Stuff

We consider this our finest team ever and wish all the boys the best of luck. Each member of the team will receive the traditional BB&H plaque and sew-on arm patch. The team will travel through Europe this summer while competing in the World IMAC Games.

There is a small controversy surrounding our 1978 All-IMAC team and we would like to go ahead and air the issue, in order that Bernie and Hogman will be accused of no wrongdoing. There was one player who received more votes than any other player, but we had to exclude him from the team on a technicality. The player was Bill McKinley for MacFleet and Stuff, and when we checked his handwriting and the 427 votes he received, they matched in every case. Nevertheless, Bill, it was a good try and a determined effort—but we said that each person could only vote once.

Our top ten saw some major changes this week as our number one team from last week fell prey to the lads that ask, “What it is?”, 10-8. We interviewed ace shortstop Dave Vaughan after the game. “Well, Bernie, we just pretty much played like #### and I guess that’s why we lost.” Another crucial factor was that Presto’s had fewer runs. Our new number one team, Dartus Tunic and the Big 13, waltzed its way into the top spot by annihilating Charlie’s Angels, 21-2. MacFleet and Stuff stepped up to number two by having Simple Dreams, 12-1. John Ratliff played exceptionally poorly in that game. Somebody please tell these guys that painter’s hats are goofy. In another big game, Big T and the Oxytocins circumcised the Four Skins, 13-8. Graeme Thompson noted after the game, “&'2t#*”

Gridders edged out

By KEVIN ROBBINS
Club Sports Correspondent

The Club Sports front has been rather bleak for a while, almost as dreary as the skies have been all week. The Club representatives have been driving Sterling Martin crazy with their budget proposals for next year; poor Sterling thought he was going to be able to catch his breath after the Davidson Relays were over. Anyway, we did manage to squeeze in a few games and newsy happenings over the past couple of weeks.

The only active Club over the weekend was the Footballers (American-style, you Rusk scholars). Rosenberg’s rippers dropped a tough, tough 2-point decision to Western Carolina on Sunday, yielding the go-ahead touchdown with four minutes to play. The loss dropped their final record to a fine 2-1 record. Both the Ruggers and the Booters were idle this week. The Rugby Club is getting geared up for a big match this Saturday with the Charlotte Gargoyles. Be sure to come at 2 pm for the game unless you want to wait for the party afterwards. The Soccer Club miserably pondered their home field loss, canceled another game with Asheville due to traveling inconveniences, and then sent their hard-working President to Wake Forest to work on some developments.

The Old Men, taking advantage of the fact that Dave Shi was absent, extended the Longest Yard, 11-1 in five innings. Bobbie Avinger was particularly jubilant after the victory. “I knew if our assets exceeded our liabilities we could win.” We also talked with the youngster of the Old Men, Sweet Billy Hutchings, after the game. “We are really playing great now, and nothing can stop us, unless we lose in the tournament.” “Thanks Billy.”

In other games of interest, the Lizard Kickers are trying to protest their way by the Bongs. Their basic argument as espoused by Jim Wood is, “Cheaters never win.” We beg to disagree because it appears that the Bongs won the game, 9-4. Go Bongs! We noted last week that our big news...was that the SAE’s were jumping from being non-ranked to our number five spot. Well, this week’s news is that they are jumping back down. It seems that the E-Baggers can’t stand the pressure and when presented the opportunity to move up, they choked. Bill Barnett captured our feelings with this comment: “I stepped up to bat, and all of a sudden I felt this apple in my throat. My knees started shaking and vision became blurred. The next thing I knew I had whiffed at three straight pitches.” Sorry Bill, better not choke next time. 

And they didn’t. Against the Pikes, the E-Baggers reached down for four runs in the last inning to win, 12-11, and erase their stereotype of the big chokers. We still haven't gotten any scores for any girls' games, but we have heard that a few have been played. The Volleyball scene is shaping up and the big news is that the Magical Mystery Tour defeated Slaoul last week. We believe we can now offer our readers our first volleyball top ten in the history of IMAC. But first, a few words about our number one team. For some strange reason, this team has a player who thinks he is Wilt Chamberlain. He probably has a right to think so. The player is Louis Ortmayer and his problem is that he has a 35-inch vertical jump. He cannot be satisfied until he has maimed his opponents by placing a volleyball between their eyes. 

Now our Top Tens:

Softball:
1. Dartus Tunic
2. MacFleet and Stuff
3. Presto’s Grill
4. Big T and the Oxytocins
5. The Old Men
6. The Four Skins
7. Lizard Kickers
8. We Funk
9. SAEs
10. Up and Coming

Volleyball:
1. Bongs Last Chance
2. Magical Mystery Tour
3. Slaoul
4. Johnny Wadd
5. Phi Delt #1
6. The Jumping Junkies
7. Will’s Outbasket
8. 4th Cannon, Act II
9. Jay’s Coneheads
10. War Kiwis

Cats hope to break slump
By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

When last year’s baseball season ended, Coach Palmer Muench knew that he needed to get a freshman shortstop who could knit the Wildcat infield together. During early season practice this year, the position was contended for by two very capable freshmen: John Porter and Cam Zurbruegg. In the early part of this season, both freshmen shared the position interchangeably from week to week until two weeks ago when Porter suffered a hand injury. Since then, Zurbruegg has moved into the position permanently and he has given the Cat infield the defensive play that is needed at the shortstop position.

Zurbruegg comes to Davidson from Binghamton, N.Y., where he played third base throughout his high school years. Learning of the Cats’ need for a shortstop, he worked hard throughout this fall and winter to “smooth out” the rough spots in his transition. This diligence has paid off as evidenced by this week’s doubleheader against Furman. The Cat defense, anchored by Zurbruegg’s shortstop play, made only one error in the two seven-inning games. In addition to his impeccable defensive play, Zurbruegg’s slugging has strengthened the Cats’ hitting attack. He touts a .280 batting average at present (an average which stayed over .300 for most of the season).

However, Zurbruegg’s batting average hardly reflects his effectiveness at the plate. Since he has struck out only twice in the entire season, he consistently puts the ball into play, which “makes things happen” for the Cats. This week against Furman and against Lenoir-Rhyne, Zurbruegg hit his first two home runs of his college career.

Joining Zurbruegg this week in the slugging department for the Cats are Stan Brown and Tim Goodell. Brown smashed two long home runs in the Furman doubleheader, moving his season total to six. Goodell also slugged a home run against Furman, giving him five for the season. Despite the strong hitting of Zurbruegg, Brown, and Goodell against Furman, the Cats were downed in the Conference doubleheader. These losses to Furman move the Cats’ Conference record to 3-5, which minimizes any chance they had of winning the Southern Conference. The Cats are 12-20 overall and have twelve games left in the season, so they still may finish the season with a respectable record. Since Zurbruegg is only a freshman, the Cats can look to him for leadership both in the infield and at the plate in the future.

Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don’t preach a sermon. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for prenatal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways, sparing you the sermon.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte,
951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202.
CALL US