Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager

Volume LXVIII, Number One
September 8, 1978

A Tool and a Monument

Last night in the Morrison Room, about two dozen freshmen witnessed a scene that will become familiar to them during
their years at Davidson. The freshmen came to the organizational meeting of radio station WDAV; what they saw and heard
were the protests of angry upperclassmen claiming that, no matter how much is said about cooperation and communication between administrators
and students at Davidson, precious little actually occurs.

When the administration made serious moves towards establishing a high-power radio station at Davidson a few years ago, The Davidsonian
and others sought specifics of the plan. “Everything is very tentative,” we were told, “and we'll establish policy as we
go along, always in cooperation with and in the best interests of students.” Many were skeptical, still feared administrative takeover,
but most were pacified, and the high-power plans went on.

Where are we today? Today President Spencer issues a directive that 50 percent classical music programming is an absolute minimum,
no questions, no discussion. Executive Director Lovell proposes a schedule with 80 percent classical programming and wonders out loud if
the station will have to regularly pay students to man the turntables since all volunteers will have lost interest. And
the administration reminds us that we have all forgotten that WDAV is “a College station rather than a student activity.
Responsibility for administration continues to rest, as it has from the beginning, in the College's Communications Department.”

It’s beginning to sound as if the skeptics were correct a few years back. Will WDAV, so concerned with a
“consistent image,” become a new Update, which is a “College newspaper, not a student activity”? A tool of the administration,
and a monument of administrative inflexibility towards students—that is the WDAV of the future.

The student staff of WDAV is to be commended for its insistence that the College talk honestly about its future
plans for WDAV. The Davidsonian encourages the administration to lift its heavy hand from WDAV, free it from the fetters
of big-money budgets and creeping pre-professionalism, and allow an ambitious group of Davidson students to discover their own potential and
offer a diverse alternative in radio broadcasting.

Philip Duncan

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

News Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

Features Editors
CHARLES ERWIN
MERIDETH DURDEN

Sports Editor
BARRY SACHTJEN

Editorial Page Editor
DENNIS MCLAWHORN

Focus Editor
BILL PEEPLES

The Back Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Photography Editor
ANN GARNER

Special Assignments Editor
LINDA HOOPES

Advertising Manager
BILL COWARD

GREGG STRADER
SHEAFFER

DAVE ISENHOWER
AMANDA HALL

ADAIR GREEN
DEAREN LONG

Writing: Gravett, Focus—Carole Department assistants—News—Dean Caldwell, Lynn Peace; Sports—Mike Britt, John Page—Cheri Photography—Phil

Students of Davidson
Davidson, N.C. 28036

While the editorials reflect Editorial Leptsen; Howerten; Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson; Jackson; Production—Denya Beyleten. Published weekly in the academic year (except
during holidays and examination periods) by The newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box
216, 688-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.
The Davidsonian’s Editorial Board—the editor, executive editors, senior editors, and editorial page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's lead editorials.
The opinions expressed are those of the authors and do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the
Board.

On July 25 of this year, a unique baby was born to an Oldham, England couple. Through the efforts of
Drs. Patrick Steptoe and Robert Edwards, Mr. and Mrs. G.J. Brown, though sterile, was able to have a baby girl
conceived in vitro (literally "glass," in a test tube). What is the nature and potential of artificial fertilization, and what
ethical issues does it raise? We asked this of Dr. J. F. Hulka, Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Chapel
Hill. An authority in his field, Dr. Hulka will be working this winter with Steptoe and Edwards to bring the
technique to North Carolina.

Dr. Hulka, what is the history and the future as you see it of artificial fertilization?

This technique has been known to be possible in animals (mice, rabbits, rats) for about 10 to 12 years and
has been pursued persistently by Steptoe and Edwards for the past 10 years in human beings. In human beings, enormous
problems were faced by Steptoe and Edwards in the ethical recovery of eggs to be reimplanted in patients who had
concomitant disease which made the procedure necessary. The reason it took the team ten years to develop the solutions to
these problems was due to the multiple concerns of ethical safeguards of the patient, rather than the embryos. The breakthrough
came a year ago from a related field of reproductive medicine where tests were developed where the women's blood could
be monitored daily, and certain ovulation by a day or two could be predicted.

The nature of these tests, timings, and procedures will be critical for those who are attempting to help infertile couples
conceive despite the absence of their own tubes. My personal feeling is that artificial insemination's future is optimistic in that
it does hold hope for the next three or four years by multiple workers other than Steptoe and Edwards, establishing
the reproducibility of this method of treatment.

Do you foresee any ethical issues with babies independent of nature?

The ethics of this situation are derived from the fact that desperately infertile couples are seeking help from a physician
or from a team of scientists to accomplish their objective: a normal live birth. I do not know, nor can
I conceive of, any physicians or scientists devoting their energies towards any other objective at this or any other time.
Thus, the objectives of making birth more independent of nature seem remote. I should add, parenthetically, that I know of
no mammalian system in which an egg has been fertilized and carried outside the maternal body to the point of
delivery and life. This applies to mice as well as men. Therefore, I do not anticipate an Orwellian scene of
babies being grown in incubators outside of mothers. Biology is enormously difficult to reproduce with the mere intelligence of man.

What does the procedure involve and what risks do the mother and child incur?

The procedure involves collecting the egg at the right time of the cycle by laparoscopy. Laparoscopy itself is done approximately
300,000 times a year in the United States with a mortality no greater than that of women taking the birth
control pill. The risk of the procedure, thus, is minimal. Risks that the mother takes after implantation are the usual
risks of abortion (possibly higher in these inseminations), ectopic pregnancy (implanting in the tube rather than in the uterus) which
is a life-threatening emergency situation, and other risks that are common to pregnancy, including the risk of increased abnormal babies.
If the egg is to be damaged within the first five days, the damage will probably be so basic as
to be lethal and to lead to no implantation at all or early abortion. This is, to the best of
my knowledge, the experience from animal investigation. In other words, a successful implantation has been carried beyond the point of
past abortion in animals and probably in humans as well.

Letters received by Tuesday night may be printed in that week's issue.
