March 24, 1978 The Davidsonian

Desire for success drives new coach

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Sports Editor

When Eddie Biedenbach was hired as the new head basketball coach of the Davidson Wildcats, he was faced with the difficult task of taking over at the end of a season. Assimilation in an unfamiliar program must be achieved quickly if the culmination of the year’s recruiting effort is to be brought to fruition. Nevertheless, Biedenbach is determined to make the most out of difficult circumstances. He is unique in that he possesses the rare combination of high personal qualities, essential in establishing a successful rapport with players and others connected with the program, and an inexorable drive to work to the limits of his capacities to advance the program as far as possible.

Biedenbach, a native of Pittsburgh, was an assistant coach at N.C. State for eight years after starring for the Wolfpack at guard and playing in the National Basketball Association for a year. He is noted particularly for his strength in the recruiting field, as he was credited with signing many top players for N.C. State. Although Biedenbach hopes to have a good recruiting year, he makes it clear that success in this area alone does not make for a great team. “I’m not a coach to build up recruiting. Although there is always one guy who can come in and make an impact, recruits will be more important to the future of the team. They are a supplement to the present team.” Regardless of the fact that he believes it is more than likely that some incoming freshmen could develop and play regularly, “working with guys that are here is more important than all year recruiting, since they are the backbone of the team.”

Biedenbach hopes to capitalize on Davidson’s fine academic reputation and prestigious schedule to “recruit the top student athletes in the country, black or white.” In outlining a style of play for next year’s team, Biedenbach contends that the pattern of play will be based on a team concept—one that will be flexible with the personnel and best use the natural abilities of the players, instead of relying solely on one strict system. The style of offense employed will depend on incoming players, so that either a patient passing game or a freelance fast-breaking strategy could be implemented. With regard to defense, Coach Biedenbach believes that improving certain statistics such as rebounding and shot blocking are important and that more emphasis should be placed on “playing to win games, since no one statistic wins games. The key is having the right combination of players and strategies to achieve victory.”

Ruggers claim close victory

By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Rugby Club opened its Spring season as they squeaked by a feisty Red Springs, N.C. Club 6-4. Red Springs took the offensive almost immediately upon the opening kickoff, and quickly scored as the Davidson Ruggers failed to take into account the unusually short dimensions of the pitch. Their conversion kick attempt failed, making the score 4-0. However, Red Springs did not score again, as Davidson played extremely aggressive rugby the remainder of the match. Veteran Pete Johnson remarked after the game that Davidson’s scrum efforts were the best he could remember, and indeed, an extremely strong push by props Johnson and Chip Howell, second row men Powell Slaughter and Chuck Barrineau, wingers Bucky Banks and Tim Wilkins, and lock Steve Sechrest, made the hooker’s job ridiculously easy. The Cats won fully 80 percent of the set scrums, and thanks to Slaughter, all but three or four of the line-outs.

Despite several excellent scoring opportunities, the tenacious Red Springs team kept Davidson from making any tries, and so the Cats turned to the toe of Steve Sechrest, who calmly booted thirty-five and twenty-five yard penalty kicks, the latter coming from a nearly impossible angle. Davidson’s backs showed much future promise as they worked well as a unit, and played good man-to-man coverage. New addition Stewart Boswell fit in well at weak-side wing, and George Cornelson and Wilborn Swaim shone, especially on some pressure-relieving punts. The season certainly looks to be one of the most promising in recent years, as a good turnout of freshmen and sophomores combined with the addition of ex-football stars “moon-pie” Howell and Cliff Hester will bolster the team’s prospects.add much strength and ferocity. Injuries have not yet been a problem, except for a knee injury sustained by Dave Martin late in the Red Springs match. All the ruggers are pulling for his quick recovery. Davidson’s next match is this Saturday, March 25, against Wake Forest University at 2 PM on the practice football field. Everyone is urged to turn out and see “the game for gentlemen, played by madmen.”

Biedenbach added that success in defense must come from conditioning, desire, and effort. He also feels that “games are won on defensive and offensive intelligence.” Biedenbach is an extremely energetic individual and is often very hard to reach at this time of the year since recruiting must absorb a large portion of his waking hours. “I believe a head coach has to do a lot of recruiting, even if he has great faith in his assistants. Therefore, my travels will be extensive at certain times of the year.”

Though swarmed with recruiting assignments, the new head coach is making plans for next year simultaneously. “I am very excited about the prospects of working with the present group of players, since I will be counting on all of them as the backbone of the team.” The prospects of settling down in Davidson are also very appealing to Biedenbach. He feels that this “highly organized community” offers a favorable environment in which to live. “At Davidson, we have the best of both possible worlds.” One can reap the benefits of a “small college town where everybody has an identity and a good cultural area in Charlotte where any entertainment is possible.” He mentioned that his wife, Barbara, and his two young daughters were also excited about residing here.

Davidson will continue to play a prominent national schedule in future years according to Biedenbach, who outlined next year’s schedule. “Looking at the power ratings, our schedule might be the toughest in the country. Eleven of next year’s opponents were in post-season play this year.” Since he wants basketball to be fun for his players, Biedenbach hopes to arrange a European summer tour next year. He believes this would be possible considering the thrill of competing against top-level teams. Also, Biedenbach cited the possible trip as an “educational experience which could broaden the spectrum of both players and coaches.”

Biedenbach expressed delight at the attitudes of the Davidson students, faculty, and alumni in helping to get the program on the way to where it deserves to be. Although he declined to speculate on next year’s record, “the program will be good next year.” Biedenbach possesses a concealed air of confidence that surfaces when thoughts turn to next year’s squad. “Next season, fans will enjoy themselves, and will see a style of ball they like—the way the game is supposed to be played.”

Golf team hopes to repeat fall success
By MIKE KENNEDY
Staff Writer

After an intense 36-hole qualifying round before winter exams, the new spring golf team was formed with little variation from the fall. During spring break, six men went South with coach Tim Tallent to the Fripp Island Tourney. Ball State led the field while Davidson, led by Sollie Foy’s 162, fared a disappointing 12th in a field of 15. The golfers later faced the University of Tennessee-Chattanooga and suffered a narrow defeat, 8½-6½.

Returning home, the golfers headed over to the prestigious Iron Duke Classic in Durham. Davidson University (as Duke unknowingly listed us) struggled to finish in a tie for 16th with Michigan State, behind powerful Oral Roberts University and North Carolina who finished first and second respectively.

The Cats had a most impressive fall season with a record of 4 and 1 (including a defeat of Duke) and third and fourth place finishes in the fall tournaments. This strong fall performance hopefully will serve as an indication of future success on the course. Not only is there strong hope for this spring, but also for the coming years, as the team is quite young. The squad includes six freshmen, one sophomore, five juniors, and one senior. With successful recruiting, the team should continue to improve year after year.

The Cats finish their season with the Southern Conference Tourney at the Country Club of South Carolina. Top contenders this year will be Marshall, Appalachian, and Furman. Davidson will get a good look at the top contender when they travel to Marshall for their invitational on March 31. Based on past performance and latent talent, hopes and expectations run high for this young and talented team for the coming season.