September 22, 1978

Actor Burt Reynolds stars in ‘Smokey’

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

and what's more, I liked him.

I met Burt Reynolds not at some fancy bar in Underground Atlanta, but at an old frame house one Sunday afternoon.

The house was owned by a neighborhood friend who lived there as a boy. Burt was supposedly staying behind guarded doors at the Holiday Inn in Valdosta, Georgia. Instead, he leased the Lakeland, and what's more, I liked him. He wanted to be closer to the filming of Gator.

The boat chase scene in Gator was supposedly filmed in the Okeefenokee Swamp. Actually, the film crew decided on Banks’ Mill Pond outside Lakeland. (All of South Georgia is a swamp.)

BURT REYNOLDS stars with Jerry Reed, Sally Field, and Jackie Gleason in “Smokey and the Bandit,” Friday night in Love Auditorium.

Reynolds was scheduled to escape from hoards of law officers in a jet boat this spring afternoon of 1976. The fellows in my neighborhood piled into a dune buggy and skipped over to the mill pond for the action.

Everybody's singing that old familiar tune around campus. Not because Army ROTC’s up at bat. They're walking walls. Don't miss the wall game.

Date: 4 OCTOBER
RAPPELLING TOWER
BY THE BASEBALL FIELD

Don't miss the sight and the experience. Walk on walls with Army ROTC.

The car behind us stopped as we pulled off the road. Burt Reynolds stepped out to greet us.

After the filming, we went by the house in Lakeland for a few cool ones. After all, not every day do Burt Reynolds and a case of Coors appear at your disposal.

When Burt filmed Smokey and the Bandit, I was not around, although Sonny was. I’ve seen the movie three times, though. Jackie Gleason cusses more than a Marine drill instructor.

Jerry Reed should have played ball with Burt at FSU, for in “Smokey” they are a perfect combination.

And Sally Field would be an ideal leading lady with Frankenstein, let alone Reynolds.

The plot is simple, but hilarious. Reynolds and Reed must go from Atlanta to Texarkana, Texas, and back in 24 hours. This task is not difficult unless returning with four hundred cases of stolen Coors (a perennial Reynolds favorite) is a part of the bargain.

Reynolds and Reed pull off mission impossible with only minutes to spare, and with every lawman in the South breathing down their exhaust pipes. The adventurous pair deliver the brew to a dry-throated bunch of good old boys at the Atlanta 500.

Even if you’re not a Burt Reynolds groupie, I recommend this bunch of garbage to each and every person crazy enough to read this B.S. Burt would not object if you saw it either.

Smokey and the Bandit will be shown at rock-bottom prices here Friday night at 8 and 10:30 pm in Love Auditorium. If you've seen it before and do not wish to see it again, visit the 900 Room, and go to the second showing. The local beer joint should change your mind.