October 27, 1978 The Davidsonian

Editor's note: When it comes to student journalism, Williams College in Massachusetts and Davidson are a good deal alike. In
this column, Williams Record [Williams’ student newspaper] staffer Peter Rintels considers: the independence of the college newspaper, a sensational vs.
responsible newspaper, holding student and college officials accountable for their actions, non-professional standards, etc. A ways into the column, Rintels
discusses a “library incident” that “became the focus of a storm of campus debate.” He says this incident pointed out
the college’s “secrecy rules.” You’re at Davidson, so substitute “the WDAV controversy” for “library incident” and read on. You'll catch
Rintels’ point.

THE WILLIAMS RECORD
By PETER RINTELS

All newspapers aiming at some measure of respectability have something of a dual relationship to the organizations that they cover.
On the one hand, they must be close enough to their subject to report on them accurately and in depth;
on the other hand, they must be “distant” enough to ensure that their objectivity is not marred. The ideal newspaper
is, as the Hindus like to say, “in the world, but not of the world.”

For a college newspaper such as the Record, distance presents a very perplexing problem. The question basically is whether the
emphasis in the phrase “college newspaper” should be on college or on newspaper.

Special Relationship

The paper has a special relationship to the campus because it is funded by students and staffed by students. It
is not independent by any stretch of the imagination, but if it is to be a truly legitimate news organization
it must act independently. There is a difficult paradox here that causes Record editors and writers to have more than
the usual journalistic quota of soul-searching sessions in which they try to determine the paper’s various responsibilities and liabilities on
sensitive stories. Cases which would be crystal clear for the New York Times and the Washington Post are not always
crystal clear for the Record.

As self-appointed enfant terrible of student journalism here, I have interpreted, with modest concessions, press questions as I expected the
New York Times would, anyway. This means that the paper will not always be covering what the Administration or the
students will necessarily find convenient, but it will establish its legitimacy as a news organization to the greatest extent possible
given the conditions under which it operates.

College “newspaper”

I feel strongly that the emphasis in college newspaper should be on newspaper, not on college. In saying this, I
realize that some people can be insufferable when they start waving around the First Amendment. For newspapermen simply to tout
freedom of the press as a license to print anything they want is too facile a way of looking at
the whole issue. If a budding Rupert Murdoch takes control of the Record and begins splashing news about the sex
lives of the College Council members across the front page, the CC, acting as agents for the students, should demand
a change in editorship. The CC has the power to do this, too. Since it funds the paper, it has
the option of withholding funding until the offending editor is removed and a more agreeable one put in his place.
It goes without saying, I hope, that the CC should never use this power except under the most extraordinary of
circumstances, but I think it is important to note that the power exists. The paper staff is, and should be,
accountable to the college.

A paper based on a New York Times model, however, should never run into such problems because the New York
Times does not sensationalize. It is a responsible newspaper which is very self-conscious about maintaining its reputation of accuracy and
ethical journalistic conduct. What it prints in its news columns, it prints because it believes that the long-term best interest
of its readers -- or in broader terms, society -- lies in its doing so. The Times, like any responsible
newspaper, does not see its First Amendment protection as

From the Editor
Davidsonian criticisms
By PHILIP DUNCAN
Editor

We're seven weeks through fall term, and term papers and final exams are the main course of conversation. But some
people are still talking about The Davidsonian. This week I tuned my ear to catch some criticisms; they follow below,
along with my responses.

Q. Most students at Davidson seem to be relatively happy with the place, but you people at The Davidsonian are
always griping, complaining, and bellyaching about something. Why don’t you admit that the Trustees, Spencer, and the administration know what
they're doing and stop trying to drum up controversies?

A. Since its very beginnings, The Davidsonian has wrestled with this question. I quote from the lead editorial in the
inaugural edition—April 1, 1914: “But, the newspaper should not merely report events, the paper must not follow blindly. It should
lead, not follow. It should mold, not be molded by, campus opinion. It removes an obstruction and clears the way
for more constructive action. It stands for the best. Ideally, firm but kind criticism, however, often removes an obstruction and
clears the way for more constructive action.”a license to smear, sensationalize, or use underhanded tricks to get information. Rather, it
uses those protections to uphold the highest standards of journalism, which often means exposing to public view the seamier aspects
of events, aspects that those involved would rather see concealed.

First amendment banter

And here, if you will forgive me, is where I start waving the first amendment around for real. The framers
of the constitution considered the New York Times style journalism so important to the health of the country that, in
drawing up the Bill of Rights, they concerted and faithful effort.” A half-century later, the newspaper editorialized: “The Davidsonian is
often critical, and that is its job. For as long as there is a Davidson College, there will be things
wrong with it. And as long as there are things wrong with it, The Davidsonian will be the 80. To
do anything less would constitute treason to the principles of good journalism and do a disservice to Davidson College.”

The Trustees, Spencer, and administration generally do know what they are doing. But they are human and are not immune
from occasional mistakes and errors in judgment. There are “things wrong” at Davidson and The Davidsonian will continue to criticize.
Not malicious criticism which seeks to destroy, rather “a firm but kind criticism which... removes an obstruction and clears the
way for faithful effort.”

Q. Isn’t it true that the student staff of The Davidsonian is a small, closed group of people who have
similar ideas about a lot of things? Why don’t you recruit more people in order to broaden your perspective?

A. 30 students work each week in the various phases of the newspaper’s operation (from assignment and editing articles to
layout to distribution of the final product). 25 more write regularly, and over a ten-week term 25-35 others work occasionally
in some capacity. We count in our number independents and members of almost every eating house and fraternity at Davidson.
One-third of the staff is female, nearly one-fourth are freshmen. In such a large group, there is seldom the staff
consensus that you imply. At the beginning of this year, we conducted an intensive and very successful recruiting campaign; many
freshmen and several others joined our ranks. Since that time, we’ve concentrated on working with and training those newcomers, but
we are always looking for more help; now, in fact, the production, advertising, and special assignments departments are understaffed. Anyone
interested in working with us should come by the office in the Union.

Right up there in the first amendment. It is my firm belief that Williams has the same kind of journalism
as does the whole. In many ways, it is a microcosm of that society. We have public officials (CC officers,
house officers, and in a loose way the faculty and administration) who spend public funds (the student activities tax, house
dues, and, again in a loose way, tuition) and there can, I think, be no question about the necessity of
holding these officials accountable for their handling of these funds, and more generally, for all of their public acts. Insuring
such accountability is the function of a newspaper in the “real” world, and I think it is a function that
the Record should be encouraged to perform here as well.

In explaining this position to people, I have commonly met with two replies to which I would like to respond.

Not the “New York Times”

First is that “The Record is not the New York Times.” This is certainly true. I see three major differences:
1) scope, 2) experience of writers and editors, and 3) the financial and staff relationship of the paper to the
College, i.e., the “distance” mentioned earlier. None of these, I think, make the Times an improper model for the Record.
The scope difference is an obvious one—The Record is dealing with a much smaller community, but as I maintained earlier,
this community is a microcosm of the larger one covered by the Times in many key respects. The basic relationship
of the two papers to their respective arenas should, I think, be the same.

The experience question addresses a more serious difficulty, which is that the Record is not composed of a staff of
professional journalists. Most of the paper staff worked on high school newspapers and possibly a couple have worked on local
papers at various times, but this is nothing compared to the kind of training and experience that most professional journalists
have, especially of New York Times caliber. But is to say that we are not professionals to say that we
should not aim for professional standards? If not, for what other standards should we aim? And if so, should we
not aim for the highest standards in the newspaper business, those of a paper like the Times? I think so.

The distance problem is one that is inherent in the way the paper is set up, but if the paper
is to be a truly legitimate news organization, it should act as if distance were not a problem. In one
key respect, The Record, along with WCFM’s news organization, al-
