September 15, 1978 The Davidsonian

PERENNIAL DEEP SOUTH veterans. The team hopes to continue as one of the winningest teams on campus. (Phil Howerton)

Runners seek improvement

The Wildcat Harriers’ annual season-opening loss to Duke, a team which generally sports several All-American candidates, was not entirely unexpected, but the additional defeat at the hands of King’s College made the day a very grim day indeed. Duke shut out both its opponents by capturing the top 2 places to score 15 points, while King’s total of 61 was just under the Cats’. Coach Norman Koller was, needless to say, not pleased. “Perhaps the silver lining to today’s meet is that the team has been humbled. Being edged by a mediocre team from King’s College on the home course has shown what kind of shape we are in.”

In any case, the Cross Country team can look forward to potentially one of the deepest and most talented squads in recent memory. Gone is the Coatsworth Pinckney, but John Rees, Van Beck, Danny Armistead, and Jim Cheek should also help out. The team is centered around Sophomore Bart Landess and Junior George Strobel, both of whom are in excellent shape after training consistently in the summer. Strobel and Landess finished 11th and 12th respectively. Meanwhile, Senior Captain Doug Horn will be trying to regain the form that made him a top runner at Davidson. Last season Horn developed a neuroma in his right foot and underwent surgery. After struggling through the remainder of the year, he began to run steadily this summer, only to suddenly discover, incredibly, yet another neuroma in his remaining foot. His operation was in early August, and he is just beginning to recover.

Also counted upon will be Saturday. Sophomore John Davis, on the other hand, was a major disappointment, finishing 26th. But the team is young and relatively healthy, and should bounce back from Saturday's debacle. As the noted philosopher R. Maydole, long-time patron and companion of the team, recently observed, “youth drinks from the fountain of recovery.” Indubitably.

The Harriers' next meet is Parks Rexall Drugs COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE 892-0208

by BELLE ERDMAN Staff Writer

Two years ago, Davidson began to see girls carrying sticks and chasing balls. Though some observers consoled themselves to call it ice hockey—without any ice, others assumed it to be soccer with sticks. It is neither. That tantalizing initial appearance has now become a winning record of 7-2; last year we ended with a 5-7-2 record. These records in themselves are recognition of individual Davidson students. In the 1976 season, Kirk Cameron was chosen at the Deep South Tournament to play on their second team. The following year, Kirk advanced to play on their first team and Cindy Curtis was chosen as goalie for the second team. Both years, with much deserved credit,Coach Susie Roberts was chosen to coach the second team from the tournament. For all the athletes involved, hockey is a sincere commitment. It takes an all-around athlete with stamina, agility, flexibility, and spontaneity. The ability to adjust and readjust positions on the field has just proven the adaptability and talent of our players. Enough, however, of the merit of past seasons, for they will only be manifested in the present. Yet Coach Roberts is extremely optimistic. “The team will be strong like last year, but we fared well against the big teams in a season which includes such teams as Chapel Hill, Appalachian, and ECU. The enthusiasm is great and there are a lot of returning veterans. The kids are really putting in the time,” Susie refers to a few such veterans as Lisa Ballantyne, Cathy Inabnet, and Kirk Cameron from whom she expects much of the scoring. The team also includes freshmen Marie Cefalo and Jenny Perkins and other new members such as Janette Okomba, an international student from Kenya. We are also fortunate to have Dee-Dee Mayes as assistant coach, particularly good in working with the forward line. Dee-Dee is a 1978 graduate of Ithaca College in New York, where she was an outstanding athlete and student. Coaches Roberts and Mayes are trying some new systems and line-ups. Moving some of our defensive players to the attack and vice versa strengthens our offense by experience. The open season needs your support, so come out and cheer them on.

Thanks to the efforts of the physical education and athletic departments, Johnston Gym now has a revitalized weight training facility. The weight room, located on the lower level of the gym, has been the target of improvements. For those of you who are unfamiliar with the weight room, it is open to faculty, physical education, and football departments as well as an annual gift of $1000 by former Tommy Peters Award winner Frank Rader ’71. Head Basketball Coach Eddie Biedenbach and PE Director Sterling Martin joined forces in renovating the weight room this year. They have added new weights, new barbells, a new “Universal” leg weight machine, and new racks on which the weights should be kept when not in use. There is also a filing system that will enable users of the facility to keep a record of their own workouts.

In addition to these improvements, the basketball staff is initiating weight training classes. Coach Biedenbach stresses that this “weight training” will stress conditioning and muscle tone rather than strength and bulk. Because of the open nature of the weight room (there is never a closed session), it can cater to many types of weight routines. Weights should be placed on the racks upon completion of the workout. If you are unsure of how to use a piece of equipment, check the file or check with Coach Martin. Never attempt a weight that you are unsure of when lifting alone. The staff has put a lot of time and a good deal of money into this facility, so do your body a favor and take advantage of it.