December 8, 1978

Kool-Aid today Keeps the Russians away! Kool-Aid today Keeps the Russians away. Kool-Aid today Keeps the Russians away.

Ferraro has qualities

The Davidsonian Opinion

Liberal arts do come in handy

By BETH BAIRD
Guest Columnist

Being a political science major at Davidson has a certain stigma attached to it. However, as a senior major, I
have found it to be an important and worthwhile field of study. In particular, I was able to put some
of my learning to use at the thirtieth annual Student Conference on United States Affairs (SCUSA) which was held November
15-18 at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York. About 250 students from all over the United
States attended the conference. Our purpose was to develop policy alternatives for major issues that confront the advanced industrial world.
We were divided into fifteen round table discussion groups. My group addressed the problems of international political economy. Led by
Davidson Sanford from the State Department and needed for an editor.

To the Editor:

One must look at four main qualities in a man when choosing an editor of a college paper: 1) past
newspaper or other publication experience; 2) organizational ability; 3) an ability to lead people and work with them; 4) enthusiasm.
Joe Ferraro has these qualities and others that would make him a great editor. Other qualities such as an openness
to ideas from other people, a drive to initiate these ideas and some of his own, and lastly a willingness
to accept change and applaud it when it is good. Joe has the experience after having worked on his high
school paper and yearbook staff, as well as having written for The Davidsonian. His organizational ability is shown in that
he created and organized the Davidson Lacrosse Club his freshman year. He was president of the club until his tragic
injury last spring. Under Joe's leadership and initiative as public relations chairman of his fraternity, a marathon was held for
the American Cancer Society by which $600 was raised. That has been the single largest charitable fundraiser in the fraternity’s
history at Davidson. Joe organized the dance alone. Such things as the Lacrosse Club and the dance marathon could only
have been possible if people felt like they could work with Joe and that their efforts would not be fruitless.
He has the enthusiasm to get people to work with him and keep them working. As editor, Joe wants to
keep the paper aimed at the students. He will allow greater freedom for The Davidsonian staff, following the old saying,
“He who edits least, edits best.” This means the editors under Joe will be allowed greater control of their paper
responsibilities. Joe plans fuller coverage for SGA meetings to keep the students informed of the weekly events that affect them.
News is the business of a paper and that is Joe's goal. Both choices for editor are good, but Joe
is the better.

Guy P. DiCenzo '79
Davidson College

We debated on such issues as OPEC, the dollar problem, trade restrictions and tariffs, the possibility of an international currency,
and the role of the United States in the world economy. We met for six 2½ hour sessions which culminated
in a

Letters To The Editor

Parents impressed with commitment

To the Editor:

We became strongly interested in Davidson College because of its Christian atmosphere and the commitment of its administration to the
furthering of the ideals of a Christian society. We were impressed by the close, loving, caring attitude of the community.
Further, we marveled that such a community existed at a college of free intellectual inquiry and high academic reputation. Dean
Rusk recognized this special quality of life at Davidson when he said it was unique among American colleges. Historically many
liberal arts schools, among them Harvard and Princeton, were founded upon similar ideals. Most, however, have become secularized, perhaps in
the interest of establishing an intellectual ferment of ideas, perhaps by neglecting their commitment. Admittedly there is a dynamic tension
between the two goals, which Davidson has managed to juggle admirably well so far. We thank God that there is
a place wherewe can send our children where spirituality is not viewed cynically by the faculty as food for fools,
women, and babies. We believe a student will be inspired when he works with a professor whom he admires intellectually,
a professor who at the same time carries a strong Christian commitment. While we would hope that Davidson would never
become “Bob Jonesian,” we hope and pray that it will continue to affirm its Christian ideals. The world too quickly
steps into a vacuum.

Ellen and Hampton Oliver
Columbia, S.C.

group presenting the results of their work. In addition to our round table discussions, we were kept busy with other
events. Presidential advisor Elliot Richardson gave the keynote address, and former New York mayor John Lindsay led a panel discussion.

Baird

However, all work and no play would make a conference boring, so the cadets did a great job keeping us
entertained. Friday night fever even hits West Point, and there was a disco similar to ones in the 900 Room.
The only differences were that it was held in the First Officers Club and that instead of the cadets having
to wear their uniforms, the army let them dress “casually” (which turned out to be three-piece suits). For our dining
pleasure, SCUSA participants ate with the cadets in the Mess Hall. West Point's food was the best school food I
ever tasted. Besides, it was hilarious to watch the freshmen “plebes” eat square meals. And, for those of us who
are used to the active college nightlife (like we have here), even West Point has a hot-spot, “The South Gate
Tavern,” where some of us continued our round table discussions.

In all seriousness, this conference was the best opportunity I have had to apply what I've learned in three years
at Davidson. The whole event was interesting and fun, and it was also a great learning experience. I'm glad I
was able to represent the political science department and Davidson College and I would recommend this type of conference to
anyone who would be interested.

To the Editor:

The headline and picture selected for the article concerning alternative Christmas celebrations in last week’s The Davidsonian was very misleading.
The headline was in the form of a quote: “Local business community exploits birthday of Jesus.” However, no one in
the article ever makes the statement. On the contrary, the Davidson business community probably does less to exploit Christmas than
most other communities. Also, the picture of a local store that accompanied the article did not represent the ideas expressed
in the story. The picture of a store window with homemade gift ideas was, according to the cutline, “another reminder
of the commercialism of Christmas.” Again, on the contrary, the alternative Christmas movement encourages people to make their own gifts.
The movement would find no fault with the creative gift ideas suggested in the store window.

These misrepresentations are an example of distorting a story to create controversy. Whether the distortions were deliberate or not, they
are examples of irresponsible journalism.

Karen Hester '81
Davidson College

The mistake is ours. It was not our intention to criticize Christmas commercialism in Davidson.

Editors, The Davidsonian.

Questions for student Station

To the Editor:

Now that the furor over the WDAV debacle has subsided and the reconstructed station is organized, the question of a
new, student-operated station arises. Before any sort of new station can be created, the following questions must be answered:

Is there enough student interest to warrant the creation of a new station?
How will the station be financed?
How will the station be governed?
What technical problems must be considered?

Whether or not one has experience working with campus radio, any students interested in helping to start a new radio
station are encouraged to contact John Jackson, David Sappenfield, or me as soon as possible. We need your help. Hopefully,
we will be able to have an organizational meeting before Christmas.

Bruce Brown ‘79
Student Body President
Davidson College

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C., 28036, or
bring them by the newspaper’s office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in
that week's issue.
