January 20, 1978

The Davidsonian

Chaucer, of course, wrote several lesser poems - "The Legend of Cleopatra" for starters.

Er... yes, Grace?

Excuse me, professor. Are these really important? I mean, do we have to know them on a test or anything?

Why heavens no, Grace. I went to college for eight years, studied in England for two more, wrote my thesis
on Chaucer, was interviewed by several colleges, landed this job out of seventy-three applicants, worked months planning this course, woke
up early this morning and walked to my class in forty-degree wind JUST TO STAND HERE and recite UNIMPORTANT INFORMATION
YOU'LL NEVER NEED TO REMEMBER.

Good, my pen was just about out of ink.

Letter to the Editor

Davidson losing an important member

To the Editor:
I was overwhelmed when I heard that Dr. Devon would not be returning next year. That bit of information was
more frightening and depressing than any I have heard in a long while -- especially following in the wake of
reported discussions concerning the cessation of our foreign student program.

Dr. Devon provides something that Davidson desperately needs. Davidson needs to make a determined effort to keep its horizons open.
It needs the kinds of courses Dr. Devon provides in her South Asian Studies department. It needs to work in
the realization that it is part of the world and that, in this world, there are many cultures which are
radically different from that of the majority of students here.

How many Davidson students really know anything about non-Western cultures or non-Christian religions? Do we have any understanding of how
America is viewed by the rest of the world? Do we even know anything about the culture of lower-class America?
Our horizons are narrow and they are narrowing rapidly.

We need the foreign students. We need the Black students. We need fundamentalists, Zen Buddhists, and atheists; arch-conservatives and bleeding-heart
liberals. We need courses to teach us about other cultures. We need people who are struggling with ideas. We need
to come out of our self-absorption and look at the rest of the world.

I do not know why Dr. Devon is being dismissed. Perhaps there is some reason that it is best I
don't know. Whatever the reason, I am sad to see her go. She has added another dimension to Davidson. She
is different. The courses she offers are important -- but equally important is the support she gives to the happenings
around campus. I attend the great majority of “cultural events” on campus and at almost every one I see Dr.
Devon somewhere in the crowd. At concerts, plays, poetry readings, and dinners, she is there. This is unusual; any professor
who lends this much support stands out. But her support of Davidson's extracurricular events does not end there. She has
also brought new elements to us in the realm of South Asian culture. Last year she took twenty of us
to a celebration and dinner held by the Indians of Charlotte. This year she hosted the rudra veena player, who
provided one of the finest and most captivating evenings I’ve had since coming to Davidson.

What else has she done for us? I don’t know. I haven't made a study of it. I only know
that I am sad to see her go. Davidson is losing an important member.

Kathleen Long '80
Davidson College

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
and PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS
