——

By KIM KEPCHAR, staff writer, and ANN GARNER, FOCUS Editor

What problems arise for the international student at Davidson? By questioning members of the faculty and student body who were close to some of those students who left Davidson, it is apparent that regimented workloads are rare. On beginning the "Davidson Experience," foreign student reaction ranges from feeling swamped to dismay at the "juvenile" system.

Director of Student Housing, Scotty Nicholls, also expressed concern. "The unfortunate thing is that we don’t have anything to offer the older international student whose academic interest cannot be satisfied at Davidson." Adding to the juvenile image is the fact that foreign students are generally restricted to introductory courses at Davidson when often at their home universities they have finished the equivalent of 3 or more years of college. And some of the foreign students resent having to eat with freshmen when they are closer in age to upperclassmen at the eating houses.

Part of the culture shock seems to have been in the information the foreign student receives before coming to Davidson. Often students just do not realize that Davidson is a small, academically-oriented school in a small community. A student coming from a university with tens of thousands of students in a large city finds Davidson dull. Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross says, "We’ve realized that the students abroad should have a better picture and more information before they come."

Professor of Classics, Dirk French, points out that "in many cases most [foreign students] don’t stand to gain anything tangible because academic credit is not granted at home universities for Davidson work." He further believes that the older foreign student who comes to Davidson is not faced with the utter novelty of another university, but is interested in learning about American culture and travel. The size of Davidson, the non-existence of a true cross-section of American life-styles and values, and the lack of cheap and available transportation, even to Charlotte, all tend to frustrate the student who is interested in discovering American culture. However, Dr. French feels that even these obstacles should not preclude contact for the student with initiative and vision who can go into even the communities around Davidson with or without Davidson programs and contact at least a segment of American culture.

Another problem which seems to affect many of the foreign students is money. Although most foreign students have full scholarships, spending money seems to be hard to get. Lacking spending money limits everything from an occasional movie to travel during the holidays.

The problems concerning the international student program are far from simple. As senior Ann Abernathy, who spent her junior year in Germany, says, "There are two sides to the coin. I’ve seen both of them and I don’t have any definitive answers." Nicholls concluded, "It is unfortunate that the majority of the students do not make the most of being exposed to these really interesting people." But the key is not to group them all as international students, but to consider each one individually. They all contribute something to campus life that we just don’t get from any quarter."Zimmermann expresses views, concerns
By JOE CRAIG
Staff Writer

In an interview with The Davidsonian on Monday, T.C. Price Zimmermann, Vice President for Academic Affairs, offered his views as to why the international student program was currently faltering, as he listed several specific problems.

Zimmermann readily agreed that many of the international students’ complaints were valid. “Part of the problem is that we thought we'd done well by the students. But we had done well in terms of what we thought their needs are, and clearly had not been paying attention to their concept of what their needs are,” he said.

When asked if Davidson’s bucolic setting was part of the problem with many students, Zimmermann concurred. “All of them want to learn about the U.S. today, of course, and they assumed that they would be in a more cosmopolitan setting. When they arrive at Davidson, it is very confusing to many of them who have, say, attended school in their nation’s capital,” he said.

Another problem, he stated, “occurs when the international student discovers a mismatch in age levels when he or she reaches Davidson. They complain that they are thrown in with ‘raw’ eighteen-year-olds at the eating houses, since many are already graduates of their institutions in their own country. They are disappointed when they don’t find the Davidson age to be comparable in maturity.”

A third problem, stated Zimmermann, is that the Davidson students aren't going out of their way to meet the international students and make them comfortable. “If we want to have foreign students here, there ought to be a great deal more commitment by all the College community. The international coordinator and the sponsoring families can only do so much. A lot of it’s up to the students themselves,” he stated.

A final problem stems from the different teaching methods and educational philosophies between America and abroad, says Zimmermann. “The pace of foreign universities is much more leisurely,” he said. “Students lounge in cafes and talk with other students, etc. Then when they get ready, they push hard in their studies and take their exam.”

The reason their college experience is more leisurely, he says, is due to the rigorous curriculum they experienced in high school; they are mentally ready for a less-structured, more independent course of study by the time they reach college. In contrast, the American educational system is deplorable, which Zimmermann likens to “thirteen years of intellectual kindergarten.”

Zimmermann sees several areas for immediate improvement. First, Davidson must improve communication with the host institution. “We must make sure that the schools abroad have a better understanding of what Davidson is like and what kind of student can thrive here,” he said. “The tendency on their part is to say this: ‘we have a number of positions available for our students to study in the U.S.’ The suitability of the institution to the student is not taken into account,” he said.

Second, Davidson needs to get the right student selected earlier, states Zimmermann, and then ensure better orientation once they arrive.

Third, “we are going to insist on the requirement that they know a reasonable amount of English,” he stated. “Some students know hardly any English, and that has been our fault.”

Fourth, Zimmermann wants to make sure that international students have ‘first choice’ when they register, as he believes their morale is important.

Finally, Zimmermann points out that the understanding of what the students themselves should do to make the program work is crucial. “They must do their best to live as their hosts here at Davidson do. There is an old saying: ‘When in Rome, do as the Romans do.’ For example, college traditions in the dorms are not the same as they live in their home universities, but it is part of their learning experience. They must understand us; otherwise, it is a closed mind,” he said.