The Davidsonian

September 29, 1978

Debate team captures top honors in tournament

Sausita, dias: "The team this year has more talent, and is the largest and most energetic in many years."

She attributed this student interest to a desire to prepare for their season, which has already taken them to Chapel
Hill for three practice rounds, and to Wake Forest for a mini-tournament.

Yet they value the experience in spite of the hard work involved.

"It teaches speaking abilities, and practical knowledge of the sort not to be found in the classroom," said Cornell.

The national debate topic this year which was used for the tournament is: Resolved: That the Federal Government should implement
a program to guarantee employment opportunities for all U.S. citizens in the labor force.

Other colleges participating in the tournament included teams from VMI, Washington and Lee, Navy, Morris Harvey, Bridgewater, Alderson Broaddus, James
Madison University, University of Richmond, West Virginia University, and Clarion State.

Committee discusses Media Board

(Continued from page 1)

teams were participating in their first intercollegiate debate.

In the varsity division, the team of Maria Patterson and Jimmy Prappas placed fourth. Patterson is this year’s team captain.

Brown noted that the Media Board was defined in Article XI of the Constitution, which deals with Student Government. He
pointed out that the SGA only appoints members to it and has no control over the Board.

Regarding WDAV, he cited Article XII Section 6 paragraph C, which accords managers of electronic media the same rights and
responsibilities as editors of student publications. He asserted that WDAV should therefore be under the authority of the Media Board.

Later Brown summed up the tenor of the meeting. "In general there were no serious difficulties with any part of
the Constitution. That only a dozen recommendations were submitted seems to be a telling fact."

According to Director of Fo-

DAVIDSONIANS!
Come Browse
Select your
cool-weather
clothes now.

By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

Davidson is continuing to plan for a new College Commons, with a location between Richards and Bailey Houses foremost in
consideration, says Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze.

The Commons, scheduled for completion by the beginning of the 1980-81 academic year, will be the new eating facility for
freshman and independent upperclassmen.

A land testing firm is now under contract to the College to test the feasibility of several possible locations on
or near Patterson Court. Although several sites are under consideration, Meetze said that the most likely plan is to move
Richards and Bailey, whose present function will be assumed by the Commons, farther apart and to build the Commons in
the space left between.

Richards and Bailey, which would be moved intact a few feet to either side, would probably be converted to private
upperclassman eating houses.

Hopefully, this plan would relieve the overcrowded condition of existing eating houses, both freshman and upperclassman. Projected serving capacity of
the College Commons is six hundred, with room for future expansion.

Proprietorship of the Commons is very much undetermined at this point.

Meetze said the College hopes to have the Commons operational by September, 1980, a goal he is confident will be
met barring unforeseen difficulties. This schedule allows three to four months for site testing and the obtaining of an architectural
firm.

Architectural planning is expected to take from eight to ten months, and the actual moving and building another year.

According to Vice President for Development Duane Dittman, the College is seeking a total of two million dollars to pay
for the construction and endowment of the facility. Estimated costs of planning and construction are $1,670,000.

$330,000 is being sought as endowment, part of which will pay maintenance and other costs, which Dittman estimated to be
$48,000 a year.

To date, Davidson has obtained $1,200,000 towards meeting these costs.

The College hopes to raise the remaining $800,000 during the course of planning and construction, largely by calling on individual
donors. At least $200,000 of this sum must be obtained by December 31, 1979, in order to meet the Kresge
Foundation’s deadline for matching its grant.

ELECTRONIC SHOWCASE

DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR OF ELECTRONIC MERCHANDISE

All Single LP’s $4.99
8 Tracks $5.99

182 BL Man
Mooresville, NC.

LARRY WELLS 663-9403
