The Davidsonian April 7, 1978

By MARK ABRAMS
Staff Writer

The Davidson Tennis Team continued its winning ways by running off a string of 12 straight wins before dropping a hard-fought decision to an undefeated N.C. State team on Wednesday. The Cats’ record is now 17-3. Chip Bondurant is leading the netters with a very impressive 17-2 mark, including a 3-0 conference record. Other top performers have been seniors Mike Barnhill (#1, 10-8) and Brian Cooper (#6, 13-3), junior John Trout (#5, 10-5), and sophomores Jeff Lyle (#4, 10-5) and Harry Griffith (#3, 15-4). Senior Steve Holman has filled in occasionally and sports an 8-1 record.

The Cats have been particularly strong in doubles play in recent matches. Bondurant and freshman Jay (Moose) Gepfert are playing in the top spot and have a 9-5 slate. Barnhill and junior Gil Kayton are in the number two slot and have a 13-3 record to their credit. Lyle and sophomore Rick Johnston are at the number three post and are 12-3.

“I cannot overemphasize the importance of doubles,” says Coach Jeff Frank. “Most of the tough matches hinge on the outcome of the doubles, as evidenced by our close wins over Penn State, Swarthmore, and Atlantic Christian. We are playing good doubles now, and we'll really have to come through in this department with the tough upcoming conference schedule.”

Davidson Relays — boasts quality field

By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

The College will host the 19th Annual Davidson Relays on Saturday, April 8. The event promises to be colorful and bustling, as 25 men’s teams and 10 women’s teams are entered. Twenty Wildcat men will compete, and four or five individuals have sizable shots at doing well in their respective events. Defending champion Jarry Taylor is ranked third in the Hammer Throw, and freshman Dick Jones has the top listed time in the 110 High Hurdles. Senior Coty Pinckney is running the 10,000 meters for the first time of the season and will be facing stiff competition from Bryan Leslie of Duke and Gary Cowan of Appalachian State. Carl MacPhail, who ran the 400 meters Intermediate Hurdles here last year, has a solid chance of repeating, as he is not entered in the five or six other events in which he normally participates. Jones is also entered, and the hurdlers’ top competition will probably come from Duke’s Bill Delacey. Junior Doug Horn was second in the Steeplechase two years ago, and should be a contender again. ASA’s Cowan and Duke’s Clarence Clayton have the best times going into the race. The Wildcats are also entered in four of the seven relays. The High Jump promises to be of particular interest as four contestants have cleared 6'10” or better, led by ASU’s Marvin Hubbard at 7’1”. Cumberland, Duke, and Frostburg State are favorites for the overall team title.

Davidson also enters a team of fifteen women, led by Berkeley Mann, Nancy Wright, Sally Bondurant, and Jamie Watt. The meet gets underway at 9:00, with most of the finals of the running events slated for the afternoon. There are still several openings for prospective judges, timers, and hurdle crew members, and Sterling Martin would be greatly appreciative of a helpful hand.

GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY - Summer Sessions

HOME
(1) Government/Business/Sociology internships
(1) Language courses
(1) English as a Foreign Language
(1) Writers Conference
(1) Washington Laboratory
(1) College Preparation
(1) Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses

Sessions:
Pre—May 22 - June 16
First—June 12 - July 15
Second—July 17 - August 18
Cross—June 12/26 - August 4

ABROAD
(1) Quito, Ecuador—Spanish
(1) Dijon, France—French
(1) Trier, Germany—German
(1) Oxford, England—Business Administration

SEND MORE INFORMATION (check above)
Mail to: School for Summer and Continuing Education
Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 20057
or Call (202) 625-3001

Georgetown University is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution in employment and admissions.The road ahead does look tough for the Cats with matches against such powers as Appalachian State, Furman, and South Carolina. However, the team is very optimistic, and with continued hard work, figures to do well in these. The matches are all at home, and with a continued increase in crowd support, this could be a major factor. The Appalachian (April 15) and Furman (April 19) contests are particularly vital in that they will play a significant role in conference tournament seedings. Frank is happy with the progress the team has made so far but realizes that there is much to be accomplished before the conference tournament at Furman. “It’s going to be a real dogfight,” explains Frank, “but with continued improvement, we feel we're a real contender.”

OUTFIELDER STAN Brown easily beats the throw to second, adding yet another stolen base to his total. The team is presently third in the Southern Conference and hopes to play well enough to move up in the standings near the end of the season. (Gregg Strader)

Solid battery sparks Cat wins
By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

This past week, two Wildcat pitchers led the Davidson baseball team to two first-game victories in two separate double-headers. In the first double-header, Tim Purcell shut out the Univ. of Tennessee at Chattanooga in an 8-0 Southern Conference victory. Purcell, who is a senior co-captain for the Cats, has a personal record of 2-0 this year and an impressive E.R.A. of 2.40. He held the opposing Moccasin batters to four hits, while the Cats knocked in eight runs to give Purcell his second conference win of the season. In the second game of the double-header with Chattanooga, the Cats lost 5-0.

Freshman pitcher Bill Duke also led the Cats to victory in an 8-1 win over Elon College. Early in the season, Duke had two losses which Coach Palmer Muench attributed to “bad luck” as much as anything. Now that Duke has had time to adjust to college hitters, he seems to be in the “winning groove,” since he has led the Cats to victory in his last two outings on the mound. His personal record now stands at 2-2. In the second game with Elon, the Cats were downed 5-3.

Three factors contribute to the success of both pitchers. First, the Cats have played impeccable defense in the field. This allows both Purcell and Duke to rely upon the team to get the needed outs, rather than attempting to strike out every batter. Secondly, the Cats continually hit opposing pitchers, running up the score and giving the Cat pitchers an ample number of runs needed to win. The third factor giving success to Purcell and Duke rests in the catching of sophomore catcher Bob Lapple. Both pitchers rely on Lapple to call for the most effective pitches at the proper times. Lapple is a smart catcher who reads each hitter’s weaknesses very wisely and calls for the most effective combination of pitches in order to get the opposing hitters out. Both Purcell and Duke show utmost confidence in Lapple’s calls and this confidence has certainly played a big role in the success of both pitchers.

Though Duke and Purcell both led the Cats to easy victories in the first games of these two double-headers, the Cats lost the second games in both. The problem seems to be the letdown in intensity that occurs after the Cats “win big” in the first games. The Cats are now 10-9 overall and have a 3-1 Conference record. This places the Cats third in the Conference behind Appalachian (2-0) and Furman (4-1). The Conference favorite, The Citadel, has already lost three games. So, if the Cats can play well, they would be in a good position to have the chance to knock off all three leading contenders in the weeks to come.