September 8, 1978

Soccer Prepares for Turnaround

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

The Davidson soccer squad launches its 1978 season this afternoon at 4:30 as they face a scrappy Wofford team at home.

The returning players along with the recruited freshmen and talented walk-ons were in Davidson by August 21 for the start of camp. There the players participated in three-a-day practices which emphasized ball control, passing, and physical conditioning.

Joel Shirk, who along with Kevin Robbins and David Herrington is a tri-captain for this year’s team, commented on last season: “Last year was disastrous. Coach Kremser, in his first year in college, demanded so much of us physically that we became mentally and physically drained, and thus incapable of playing the way I think we were capable of. Also, our schedule pitted us against nationally ranked opponents.”

Herrington notes that, “The schedule is more reasonable this year. We're trying to play more North Carolina schools without compromising the competition. There has been a recent influx of new coaches, players, and enthusiasm throughout the state.”

Shirk concluded that, “Ideally our schedule would be comprised of three groups: those matches we feel confident of victory, those matches that could go either way, and those matches that would require a superior effort by everyone to ensure victory.”

Shirk said of this year’s team, “Our weakness is that we're a young team. Over one half of our team are freshmen. This will become a strength in future years, however. Overall, individual skill is much higher this year.”

Herrington continued, “One of our strengths will be our short passing game and ability to control the ball.”

“Another strength is that we finally have some players that will make things happen on the field.”

Herrington concluded optimistically by saying, “Coach has shown understanding and integrity throughout the preseason. I think Coach hopes that this year will be a turning point in the program and consequently in the support rendered it by the Administration and the student body.”

Now Showing:

Photos by
Stittey Hecken