Philip D. Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Volume LXVII, Number Twenty
March 31, 1978

Proceed with care

When we heard a year ago that Davidson College planned to expend considerable sums to establish a high-power radio station
on campus, many of us sought to discover what advantages and benefits such a station would offer.

Money after money

Proponents of the switch to high power argued that the “new” WDAV-FM would become a servant to the community and
a leader in quality radio programming. As such, the station would attract attention to Davidson, impress the people of Greater
Charlotte, and convince them to donate to the College. Cost to establish the station would be considerable, the proponents admitted,
but the expenditures would be money sent after money. In effect, they explained, Davidson spends x dollars on the high-power
radio station, and the public relations benefit of the station stimulates contributions, bringing us the original x dollars plus more
money that could be used in all areas of the College’s development program.

A year ago there was optimism that the above initial expenditures, of a subscription service, a subcarrier broadcasting service, a
Davidson sports network—fundraisers that would bring in enough to balance WDAV’s books after an estimated yearly operating budget of $25,000
took its toll.

Unrealistic hopes

Last year I feared that these optimistic hopes were overblown, and nothing has happened since then to make me change
my mind. We are now told that it will be at least two years before the station might be able
to support itself. In the meantime, financial resources that could be directed to the academic sector will be funneled into
a high-power radio station. My concern is that WDAV will never bring in more money than it spends, that it
will be a white elephant, a public relations showpiece that drains our tuition dollar year after year.

Remember the students

But my concerns are of secondary importance at this time. The fact we live with today is that the College
is irretrievably committed to a high-power radio station—the Trustees have willed it so, and so it shall be. Since many
of the Trustees are successful businessmen, we must trust that they believe WDAV can raise money for Davidson College as
it provides a community service to the Charlotte area. In placing my trust in their business sense, I ask that
they remember that public relations is secondary to Davidson’s main task, student development. Carefully spent, properly directed monies do more
to improve the calibre of a college than ostentatious, money-flinging “image enhancers.”

Difficult task ahead

The task of WDAV Director Don Lovell, Director of Communications Martha Roberts, and Station Manager Carrington Thompson and his staff
is a challenging and a most difficult one. They must remember that in addition to its role of servant to
the community, WDAV will always have to attend to the interests of the campus which is its base. The programming
must not become so Charlotte-oriented that the students become unable to identify with their radio station, paid professional staff must
remain very limited, and in the give-and-take of decision-making at WDAV, the desires of student staffers must remain balanced with
the desires of the administration and the Trustees.

Our duty as Davidson students is to assist WDAV as it makes final preparations to go high-power. For on May
1 a potential audience of two million will be judging Davidson when they hear WDAV.

—Philip D. Duncan

What makes a good newspaperman? The answer is easy. He knows everything. He is aware not only of what goes
on in the world today, but his brain is a repository of the accumulated wisdom of the ages. He is
not only handsome, but he has the physical strength which enables him to perform great feats of energy. He can
go for nights on end without sleep. He dresses well and talks with charm. Men admire him; women adore him;
tycoons and statesmen are willingto share their secrets with him. He hates lies and meanness and sham, but he keeps
his temper. He is loyal to his paper and to what he looks upon as the profession; whether it is
a profession, or merely a craft, he resents attempts to debate it. When he dies, a lot of people are
sorry, and some of them remember him for several days.
—Stanley Walker, New York Herald Tribune, 1924

Opinion
Peace, politics clash
By STEPHEN V. GOLD
Asst. News Editor

An increasing number of Davidson students are expressing a desire to become better acquainted with the “outside” world, as is
evident in the recent formation of Project Peace. That the student body is becoming more interested in world affairs is
a good sign. We at Davidson are fortunate to receive a somewhat more personal and liberal education than most schools
offer, but we cheat ourselves when we cut ourselves off from the outside world.

Let us remember, however, that there is a vast difference between opening a whole mind to the world, and opening
a narrow mind. If we are to strive for awareness and knowledge of the outside world, we must rise above
our small world of beliefs here and open-mindedly view the entire realm. It is easy to take sides and argue
an issue when we do not know or understand the opposing viewpoints. This is especially true when student apathy or
lack of opposition (because of our homogeneous community) is prevalent.

Project Peace wishes to “promote student awareness as well as take practical action to aid conflict victims.” (Hopefully other people
in need of help, but not involved in war, will not be forgotten.) This is a commendable goal, but in
the interest of peace let us remember that, in the Middle East, casualties were suffered on both sides of the
line. Why did no one on campus offer to help an Israeli family? If politics are removed from the issue,
what remains are human beings, and who is to judge that any needy person, whether capitalist, communist, black, white, Arab,
Jew, on one side of a river or on the other side, is undeserving of aid?

Political awareness, and an individual effort to stand up and defend our own political beliefs, are important in our overall
quest for knowledge. But politics can play no part in a serious effort to help people. When politics become a
part of our understanding, then our goals of helping people are forgotten, and party and national lines are drawn. We,
as a searching and concerned student body, must remember that it is necessary to always keep an open mind. Without
one, peace will never be possible.

students of Davidson College.

the Board.

Executive Editor
LYNAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
JIM ENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

News Editors
PAM CAMERRA
ESTHER BRUCE

Features Editors
BARRY SACHTJEN
DENNIS MCLAWHORN

Sports Editor
BILL PEEPLES

Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Focus Editor
ANN GARNER

Managing Editor
MARSHALL WADDELL

Graphics Editor
PATSY DANIELS

Inside Art Editor
MARGARET MILES

Photography Editors
DAVID LITAKER
GREGG STRADER

Production Manager
AMANDA HALL

Copy Editor
DAVID ISENHOWER

Special Assignments Editor
PANN SHEAFFER

Circulation Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ

Advertising Manager
ADAIR GREEN

Department assistants:
News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus—Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Jack; Circulation—Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by The news, paper’s office is on the
third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00
per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

The Davidsonian's Editorial Board—the editor, executive editor, senior editors and editorial page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's lead editorials.
While the editorials reflect exchange of ideas between all members of the Board, the opinions expressed are those of the
authors and do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the Board.
