October 20, 1978
The Davidsonian

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

Having been at Davidson for six weeks, and having seen the school function in its daily life, biased as we may be, we see the office of international education as being one of the most important institutions on campus. We have both traveled widely, as have the other international students. We all see the benefits of international interaction. The Davidson international program affords Davidson students a unique opportunity to study in Europe and abroad, while gaining valuable experience and academic credits. But for international students on campus, the exchange program is a “one-way ticket.” For none of the international group gain official recognition of their grades obtained here when they return to their home universities. Hanafi (Pakistan), Cotignenc (France), and Okomba (Kenya) have already obtained degrees, while Weitz (Germany) has studied for four years at his university and Chadwick (United Kingdom) is partway through his studies to obtain his B.A. Thus the exchange is emphasized for all the international students as being a cultural experience. Primarily we are not here just to do academic work, but more importantly we are here to learn. To learn the customs, learn the language, to savor the American educational experience, and to better understand the American way of life.

Last week’s article gave a devastatingly wrong image of some of the international students. Weitz is quoted as saying, “I’m not here to study. I can do that in Europe...” Taken as it was out of context, some of the exchange students are just here for a holiday and have no intention of working. Chadwick stated last week that “the program was more of a cultural than an academic exchange.” The fact that international students are only required to take two courses per term is a recognition by the administration that the exchange is more than just academic.

Sig Eps Protest

To the Editor:

The brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon wish to take exception to the reference made to our feelings toward President Spencer (Spencer's First Decade, The Davidsonian, 13 October 1978), and our attitude toward the present social system at Davidson. The “bitter” feelings attributed to us were perhaps true to some extent in 1971, when present brothers were in grade school, but are in no way indicative of our feelings today. We as a group fully support the administration and the present social system, and in no way hold any feelings of bitterness or malice toward President Spencer.

It is our understanding that the writer of the article in question was referring to isolated incidents that occurred at one of the eating clubs on campus last year, which were then extrapolated to include the views of the entire brotherhood. The author did not once address the leaders of our group for a statement, because as we understand it, he “...didn’t feel it was necessary.” We see this type of reporting as analogous to a scientist accepting for truth a result occurring once in a thousand trials. It just doesn’t make good sense.

The Sig Eps have worked actively in the past several years to erase a stereotyped image that was a carryover from the early seventies: the image of a group of radicals who opposed the administration, and who had little respect for people outside their own group and even less respect for the workings of the social system. Through graduation, our group has lost the members responsible for this image, and feels that now it is an image unjustly applied by some people who have formulated their opinion on hearsay and not on our recent actions. Our operations off campus are in the spirit and the letter of the social system as it is now defined, and by being off campus we are exercising one of the options given every fraternity when the social system was revised. Sigma Phi Epsilon has provided an active and socially meaningful outlet for its members and has sought to make contributions for the good of the entire campus community. Included in these contributions are:

-- A speaker series by Davidson professors held nearly every week at our house, where everyone is invited and the professor presents a program on a topic of interest to him, and informal discussion follows;
-- A campus-wide dance marathon for the American Cancer Society which provided an activity open to all students and which raised over $600.00 for a worthy charity.

With events such as these, Sigma Phi Epsilon seeks to benefit everyone involved with Davidson. In relation to the author's statement concerning the “kindness” of the present system of “self-selection,” one does not have to look far to see instances of “selectivity” being practiced in the “rush” processes carried on by some of the houses on campus, which have led to a number of injustices within the system. At present, true “self-selection” is not always the rule. In our opinion, competitive rushing should not wear the cloak of hypocrisy, but...can be carried out successfully within our social system, which does contain alternatives equally satisfying to the person not interested in a fraternal organization. In view of the misunderstanding caused by the reference in said article, the brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon wish to reaffirm that the view cited is not the view held by the present brothers, who regard President Spencer very highly.

Rick Kelly ’79
President
For the brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon

---

For Third World marketing
By STEVE AUSTIN
PIRG Columnist

The Nestle Corporation, international producer of chocolate and other items, is coming under fierce attack for its marketing of milk formula for infants. In an effort to increase profits, the company is exploiting the citizens of several underdeveloped nations.

The world out there
E Davidson PIRG: “There is but one small problem—the people have no need for the product. What was industry’s response? Create one! A massive sales campaign now appeals to caring parents’ desires to give their child the best available. It encourages poor mothers to abandon breastfeeding for a more expensive and ultimately less healthful alternative.

“Twenty years ago in Chile 95 percent of all mothers breastfed their babies beyond the first year. Now the practice has been virtually abandoned.

“Using large advertising data, formula companies flood the media with ads featuring pictures of plump, healthy babies clutching bottles. Catchy radio spots use local dialects to promote the Nestle’s boycott under the guises of the National Council of Churches, explains what the situation is and what is being done to resolve it.

“Now Lactogen is better because it does get more protein and iron.

“With the stabilization of birth rates in many industrialized countries, sales of infant formula products have slowed dramatically. Articles in business magazines have described this crisis as The Baby Bust and Bad News in Babyland. To maintain and increase their market share, companies are seeking markets where population is developing and birth rates fit the bill.

“Effectively, they encourage bottle feeding by associating it with the medical community. In most underdeveloped countries with low per capita incomes, formula to feed a three-month-old baby can cost up to forty percent of a family’s monthly income. To the poor, uneducated mother, an obvious solution is stretching the formula by diluting it. It is also likely that she cannot read directions which tell her to sterilize the bottle with equipment that she doesn’t have, using clean water which for her may be nonexistent. Consequently, severe malnutrition, disease, and often death result.

“Controlling more than one-third of all the infant formula in the world market, Swiss-based Nestle has been least responsive to the consequences of its products. An international boycott of the company is aimed at correcting this leverage point. Being known to consumers as the promoter of a dangerous and life-destroying product is very threatening to those who market baby formulas.”

Many churches and other concerned groups are supporting the Nestle boycott, including the Presbyterian Church of the United States. The goal is to force Nestle, through public opinion as well as economic boycott, to stop all promotion of infant formula in underdeveloped countries.

---

We are here not just to study, but to learn

International students have a unique perspective. We as a group feel that while the college recognizes this fact, the administration has done little, especially in the first week of this term, to enable the foreign students to pursue such objectives. This problem has arisen for the past several years. But despite its difficulties, the experience of international exchange on a personal level, meeting and making friends with the Davidson student body is what the international program is all about. For the students are the real Davidson. And people are the real America.

Chris Chadwick
Tom Weitz
International Students
Davidson College

---

Letter: Successful marathon
To the Editor:

Sigma Phi Epsilon and the American Cancer Society wish to thank you for your support of our Dance Marathon. Over $600 was raised in pledges and donations. Special thanks to Kappa Alpha and ARA Slater for the keg each donated.

The Brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon

---

If you’re interested in learning how your government works, come to the Nachos on October 24. These hearings will deal with the proposed transportation of radioactive wastes from the Oconee nuclear station in Clemson, S.C., to the newly completed nuclear station in Mecklenburg County. For more information or for transportation to the hearings, call Alicia (6124).

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial.