The Davidsonian. | November 3, 1978

Bad checks from students plague many merchants

By J. W. ARETINO
Staff Writer

Last year the only challenge to basketball bouncing in Johnston gymnasium was student checks bouncing in area stores. Some wondered
if a new scourge had hit the campus, others pointed to the underworld as the efficient and final cause, while
still others simply thought students were testing Economics 101 dogma by seeing if indeed they could create money and stimulate
the economy in the finest Keynesian tradition.

With the beginning of another academic year, students when writing checks were scorned, bantered, scoffed, fingerprinted, harried, and sometimes their
checks were even accepted. Enrollment at Davidson College didn’t seem to matter anymore to merchants who seemed so partial to
the students before. Hopefully things are changing.

So, 18 merchants were asked about the problem of “insufficient funds” checks. Ray Phipps, a robber-baron at the Seven-Eleven store,
said bad checks had not been a problem this year. No longer is a student required to reveal everything from
his shoe size to his Alpha number to his laundry number to cash a check. A phone number or local
address will usually suffice. Every merchant contacted had a “pseudo-panic button,” namely Will Terry’s phone number. If threats of prosecution
and loss of checking privileges were not enough to frighten even the hard-core J-walkers on campus, the wrath and vengeance
of the Dean of Students possibly was. In the case of the 7-11, bank errors accounted for several of the
checks bouncing.

Alton Holkey, manager of the Ace Hardware Store, said he always took Davidson student checks. He only remembers one check
not going through. “That check was for $1.64, and the student had closed out his checking account the day before.”

Wesley Greene, manager at Harris Teeter, said only a few student checks come back and this usually occurs at the
end of the year just before school recesses for the summer. Sam Caldwell, the store manager at Cashions, says he
wished all his checks were from Davidson students. “I’ve lost less than $50 in six or seven years from bad
checks written by the college students.” He then grinned, “besides, I have Will Terry’s phone number...”

Apparently merchants in Mooresville have been hardest hit by the surge in underworld activities. King of Pizza and King of
Sirloin have been burned frequently. “Bad paper” is slowly on the decline. All merchants said the school and the student
were responsive when a problem did occur. Hopefully a return to normalcy is in the offering. Big Daddy’s still has
faith in “the good ’ole boys at Davidson,” and they say you girls are welcome too.

The Student Government Association sponsors a Bad Check Committee, begun in 1976, that serves as a liaison between student offenders
and complaining businesses. The committee takes much of the “busy work”...involved off Will Terry’s shoulders. Although the Dean of Students
Office does not always work through the committee, it is often asked to chase down difficult cases.

Dr. Zhivago and M light up screen

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Few Nobel Prize-winning novels become Academy Award-winning movies. Few films can make you laugh and cry, make you experience realism
and romanticism, and make you feel as though you are part of the action no matter how many times you
see it. “Dr. Zhivago” is all of these.

While it is difficult for Americans to even begin to grasp the Russian Revolution, director David Lean accomplishes the near
impossible. Hallmark performances by Omar Sharif, Julie Christie, and Geraldine Chaplin dramatize Boris Pasternak’s novel of the revolution very much
as it actually happened.

In three hours the film portrays the life of poet/physician Yuri Zhivago (Omar Sharif). Orphaned as a young boy, Zhivago
is adopted by relatives and marries his cousin (Geraldine Chaplin) who is more like a sister. Conscripted into the revolutionary
army as a field doctor, Zhivago encounters an old flame (Julie Christie) and escapes with her to his family’s Ukrainian
hideaway.

After the czar is killed and Kerensky’s government falls to Lenin’s communism, Zhivago must get his wife and two children
out of the country. He sends them to Paris. He later rejoins his mistress and illegitimate daughter, only to lose
them in a frenzied crowd of peasants. The closing shots of the film show the aging Zhivago in Communist Moscow.
He spies his former mistress boarding a bus and tries to draw her attention. Chasing the bus down the street,
Zhivago suffers a heart attack and dies, bringing to an end one of the most intriguing love stories of all
time.

“Dr. Zhivago” will be shown Saturday night in Love Auditorium at 8 pm.

By SID BARRETT
Staff Writer

This week’s Fine Film features the talents of two of Italy’s greatest film directors, Roberto Rossellini and Vittorio De Sica,
here in what is perhaps his most powerful statement of not only the individual responsibility but the Italian conscience as
well, in the Second World War.

Filmed in Italy in 1959, General Della Rovere is a powerful statement of not only the individual responsibility but the
Italian conscience as well, in the Second World War. The action takes place during the waning years of the War.
As the Italian front collapsed before the American drive up the Italian peninsula, the Germans assumed control of Italy militarily
and politically. The occupation of their ally was often brutal, especially in Rome. De Sica plays a petty thief, an
opportunist who plays both sides against each other. He is arrested and then forced by the Nazis to impersonate a
jailed Italian partisan leader, in an effort to gain information about the Resistance underground. As De Sica gains the trust
and support of his “comrades,” he begins to assume some of the characteristics of the General. Finally, his role leads
him to a confrontation between his own interests and those of his countrymen.

The film is in Italian with English subtitles and begins at 8:00 Wednesday night, in Love Auditorium.

Typing Theses, term papers etc. Experienced, dependable work. Call 1-663-5460.
