=. Tew avidsonian February 3, 1972 ——14 IMAC Report “Mothership tops A-league” | By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

There has been word around campus that a “Total Woman” encounter group has been formed by some of the more
radical coeds. We are not going to mention any names, but if you guessed Ellen Ogilvie, Cathy Landis, or Angela
Barnett we would say you were close. This news upset Bad Bernie and Hogman because rumor has it that we
could lose money for IMAC sports if there was not a “Total Man” group formed to comply with Title XIXXII
Funds. So, we have decided to begin our own “Total Man” encounter group and as Chair “person” we have named
the honorable Mike Sheridan. The first meeting is Monday at 10:00 in the Union and the topic will be “How
to Keep Your Masculinity on the Davidson Campus.” Other guest lecturers have already been booked, and big names like the
one called Reigel and his scholarly colleague, the Boy Abdul are sure to appear. For more information on future meetings
check the john in the basement of the library.

There were several big games this past week and two of them witnessed clashes between our top ten teams. Tuesday
night saw the materialization of the inevitable meeting of the Mothership Connection and the young boys that wear black T-shirts
and call themselves “Hurtin’ for Certin’.” And in the end it was the experience that counted as the upperclassmen rolled
to a 50-45 victory. It would be advisable for the freshmen to bring more than five players to the games
from now on. “I like long distance runners” Lapple had 13 (22.7 below his average) and Mike Peskosky chipped in
14. Powell Slaughter was the difference on the boards as he hauled in 12 rebs and had 8 points.

For “Hurtin’ for Certin’” “Doc” Gifford “Maravich” Piercy was held to only 13, while John Porter had a game-high 16.
Minor Sinclair also had 13 points for the losers while Joe-B Merten didn’t do jack.

In the other big game of the week Tex’s KA’s lost a thriller to the men of Hand Sown Home
Grown (boy, I hate that name), 60-55. The KA’s were down for the game as their noble leader, the Hogman,
had stomach pains and did not suit up for the contest. Bruce Fielden was the key for HSHG as he
led the way with 14 points. Big Tex had a game-high for the losers.

The gentlemen and scholars that live in the far rear house on Patterson Court (better known as the SAB’s) continued
to roll and remain undefeated as they deflated the 5 PHI’s, 51-22. Stan Brown had 14 points for the winners
and Tim Purcell 5 fouls for the losers. Tim Barr also had a field goal in that contest.

In the B League it looks as if all the teams that get a chance to play in the final
tourney still have a chance to win the big trophy. Bone has emerged due to the intense play of Perz
as a contender. We know that is a dangling participle and we don’t care because no professor can grade us
on this. Other title contenders are the Squatty Bodies, the Family, Reign of Terror, the Ragmen, the Red Hounds, and
B S Express. Not necessarily in that order, and if that order bothers you, feel free during your spare time
to take a pencil and paper and rearrange them in any order that might suit you.

Women’s play is exciting as usual. Bops got bopped out of second place by the lovely ladies (not inclusive) of
Second known as Twice as Nice. Luke “I have a cold” Skywalker had 2 points in that contest. Ruskellar remains
on the top position (despite the erratic play of Nancy Clark, we wish Beth would play) and they are our
favorite to win the Women’s crown. Hi M.W. don’t forget to water the plants and I'll be home late.

And now, once again, as so often in the past...Past, when you have finally sorted through the B.S., we give
you the only objective news in the paper—the A League Top Ten.

1. The Mothership Connection
2. SAEs
3. Hurtin’ for Certin’
4. Tex’s KAs
5. Hand Sown Home Grown
6. McFunk and Dr. Deal
7. Tokens
8. OffAgain
9. Road Runners
10. New Jersey Nets

[Gregg Strader]

Moccasins trip Wildcats
By BRIAN KELLEHER, DAVID NEISLER, and HAYNE NEISLER
Staff Writers

The Davidson Wildcats, despite a 32-point effort by John Gerdy, could not overcome their recent slump and lost to U.T.
Chattanooga 96-86 in Charlotte Wednesday night. 5’11” guard Edsel Brooks’ 36 points paced the UTC attack. Moccasin Coach Ron Shumate
said, “We worked real hard for this game. We rebounded real well and our zone was excellent. If they would
have been able to take the lead, it might have killed us.”

A positive side of the game for the Cats was the inside play of freshman Rich DiBenedetto and Brad Walder.
DiBenedetto played an aggressive inside game, scoring 20 points and collecting 11 rebounds. Brad Walker played nine minutes and scored
12 points. “Brad,” Davidson Coach John Kochan remarked, “played with enthusiasm and hustle. Walker will definitely get a chance to
play against the big boys of Notre Dame.”

The game was close throughout the early part of the first half as Davidson actually had an 18-17 lead at
the 12:24 mark. After a Chattanooga time-out, the Moccasins responded with seven straight unanswered points and took a lead from
which the Cats could never recover. UT led by seven at halftime, 43-36.

The Wildcats began the final half with a quick burst of scoring and, with 18:19 to go, trailed by one.
Davidson, however, could get no closer, as the Moccasins pulled away to a 15-point lead. The Cats were plagued by
erratic defense which resulted in easy transition baskets. UT—C collected the victory.

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don’t preach. What you
will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your
problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing
and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal
care, adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot
of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you the sermon is one of them.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte, 951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202. Call 377-0841.

With 4½ minutes to go, Davidson began a last-ditch rally in which they pulled to within seven points. UT—C held
firm, however, and went on to collect the victory. Kochan commented after the game, “John Gerdy shot well for us.
He was 13 for 28 from the field and played his usual fine game. Edsel Brooks is shooting 43 percent
on the year, and the two times against us he shot like Jerry West.”

The defeat extended the Cats' losing streak to five games. Saturday, against Dartmouth, they played uninspired ball in an 82-69
loss. Gerdy led the Cats with 26 points and Dodds added 22. Monday night’s game against powerful St. Johns was
a different story, however. Except for the first three minutes of the second half, the Cats gave the Redmen a
very even game. Gerdy again led Davidson with 28 points in the 79-67 loss. Freshman Todd Haynes was still able
to find some optimism for the future after the loss: “I feel the team is starting to pull together and
we could pull off an upset on the road soon.”

Free Recreation in Main Gym 2/3-2/9
Friday: 12:30 pm-midnight
Saturday: All Day
Sunday: 5 pm-7 pm
Monday: 11 am-2 pm; 3 pm-7 pm; 9 pm-10 pm
Tuesday: 11 am-2 pm
Wednesday: 11 am-2 pm
Thursday: 11 am-2 pm

Please note: Some events may run overtime. All events in the gym are subject to change at any time.
