March 24, 1978 The Davidsonian

THE RUSK SCHOLARS have arrived. Look for a story next week.

Union workshop sets goals
By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

“The Union is the community center of the College, for all members of the College family... aiming to make free time activity a cooperative factor with study in education,” according to the new statement of purpose adopted by the Union Board this week.

The adoption of the statement of policy was the first of many goals set by the Union leaders in a workshop held during spring break. The workshop centered upon three major areas of concentration: communications, use of resources, and student involvement.

The Union Board aims to have a new communication cycle with the Davidson community by the end of spring term. The cycle will include:
1. an expression of the Union's need for input from student and campus organizations.
2. the scheduling of meetings for communication.
3. the College community’s expression of its needs and desires to the Union.
4. Union publication of this response, evaluation of its programming, and its incorporation into planning of activities.
5. the College community’s response to Union programming and the offering of more input.

The Union seeks to close communication gaps with the student body and Patterson Court. Union Co-Curricular Vice-President Amanda Hall said, “The Social Council and the Patterson Court Council should meet periodically. Coordination and cooperation with other campus organizations is very important.”

The Union Board is exploring the idea of establishing a publicity committee. The Union is looking into the creation of a bi-monthly “What’s going on in the Union” publicity sheet. “The announcement sheet just isn’t sufficient,” explained Hall.

The “big, garish, and white” character of the building itself is another problem for the Union, pointed out Hall. A task force will look into bringing in architects and interior designers to see how the Union can be made more appealing.

A study of plans for the Commons is being undertaken. A task force will research the best placing for the facility to ensure that it speaks to campus needs, said Hall. The completion of a “Resource Inventory” of Davidson and the development of a bulletin board for events in Charlotte and rides to them are also planned for the Union.

A major problem of the Union, finds Hall, is “the lack of involvement by individual students.” “This comes from a basic ignorance of how to get involved,” she explained. “It’s not the students’ fault, it’s ours,” Hall added. To remedy the situation, the Board proposed publicizing the “openness” of committees and their openness to ideas. The Union will inform the college community of the nature of each committee. It will also seek suggestions from other schools on increasing student involvement. “Students don’t know what a Union is because there isn’t one in high school,” remarked Hall. “The whole goal,” stressed Hall, is to make Davidson aware that “it’s everybody’s Union.”

The Union first opened in September of 1975, “Brand new to the campus,” explained Hall. Now, she said, the campus is “just learning that it’s here for students.” “We’re ready to get a program established. We've by no means done everything we can,” concluded Hall.

National and world news

Begin, Carter meet, hold Mid-East talks

Middle East: Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin is in Washington this week discussing the Middle East situation with President Carter. In view of recent American discontent over Israeli activities, Begin needs confirmation of American support. Although the White House had hoped to make peace prospects the main item on the agenda, the Israeli occupation of southern Lebanon and the subsequent UN resolution calling for withdrawal should preoccupy the talks.

France: The second round of the French National Assembly elections, held on Sunday, gave the Right a clear majority over the Communist-Socialist alliance. The Right picked up 288 seats, while the Left only captured 199. This victory came as a surprise to most observers; only two weeks ago, the Left was heavily favored to win.

Italy: Italian political leader Aldo Moro is still being held hostage. Moro was kidnapped on March 16 by several members of the Red Brigade, a terrorist group, who were taking retaliatory action for the capture and trial of several of its members. Moro, a Christian Democrat leader and former Prime Minister, has been one of the primary actors...In cooperative efforts between the Communists and the Italian government.

Washington: Last Thursday one of the Panama Canal Treaties narrowly passed in the Senate. This treaty guarantees the Canal’s permanent neutrality after the U.S. removes its military forces on Dec. 31, 1999. The vote was 68-32, only one more than the necessary two-thirds majority needed for passage.

Washington: Striking coal miners, who have almost universally defied U.S. District Judge Aubrey E. Robinson’s temporary back-to-work order, can once again legally strike and picket, due to the judge’s decision to let the week-old order die. In refusing to extend the order, Judge Robinson cites the Carter administration’s lack of proof of its need and its uselessness in view of the miners’ defiance. His decision proved a setback to administration efforts to use the Taft-Hartley act to end the 109-day walkout and ease the coal shortages that have triggered layoffs in the Midwest and Appalachia.

Compiled by Mary Booth and Mark McCormick

Calling alumni SIC raises funds
By MARTIN McCOY
Staff Writer

The Student Involvement Committee (SIC) is presently engaged in a fund-raising effort for the living endowment by calling alumni by telephone. The project is in its second year and it involves approximately 230 students. Tim Goodell is heading up the program. About 20 volunteers per night man telephones for several hours in the early evening Monday through Thursday. The 20 direct-dial telephone lines are located in the Union. The effort is now in its second week. It began March 13 and it will end Thursday, March 30.

Director of the Living Endowment, Tom Bernhardt, said that students calling alumni accomplishes three things: it updates alumni information files concerning family, address and professional status; it allows present and former Davidson students to discuss ideas and feelings about the school, and it solicits pledges to the educational budget. Bernhardt said that the program is worthwhile to obtain current information about alumni since this can only be done through direct contact. Also, the personal contact of students with alumni gives both parties a clearer picture of Davidson. The students become more aware of the traditions of Davidson and the careers of men who have attended here. The alumni have the chance to talk to a student about what it is like now.

He said that two common misconceptions that the alumni have are that Davidson has a rich endowment which does not need to be supplemented and that the students here now are all eggheads only concerned with esoteric studies. Both of these misconceptions are often overcome in the course of a conversation with the volunteer.

The SIC began calling two years ago when the increased student involvement in budget planning and evaluation made it apparent that students should accept the consequent responsibility to help with fund-raising. There was a pilot program in 1976 for several nights. Last year the program was coordinated by Roger Brown and 180 students participated. 540 pledges were collected for a total of $37,000 at a cost of $3,500, within the usual 10% cost rule of fund-raising.

Goodell’s assistants, who help enlist volunteers, are Whit Boone and Jim Robertson for the first week, Dave Keller and Will Miller for the second week, and Burkley Mann and Cathy Howard for the final week. Bernhardt said that the volunteers this year have not been as reliable as those last year but with minimal training they have shown great competency.

This year, the student-callers are calling only alumni in North Carolina and Georgia, states which were overlooked last year and contain a sizeable percentage of all alumni. Bernhardt said no specific goals have been set, they only wish to do better than last year. The results so far seem to brighten that possibility. Alumni which have not been reached by telephone are sent personal notes.

Basically, Davidson receives two types of gifts from alumni. The living endowment, which totaled $266,000 last year, is like a general expense account. Restricted gifts for a particular purpose were at least twice this amount. Together they comprise about 6% of the budget. Bernhardt said that the SIC project was good experience for everyone and deserves to be continued indefinitely. He added that it will make “today’s students better alumni.”

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary