By BETH DUBOSE, JEANIE MCINTYRE, and EMILY PARTIN
Staff Writers

Several Davidson students were involved in protest activities against the Allied General Nuclear Services (AGNS) Reprocessing Plant at Barnwell, South Carolina last weekend. The protest was organized by the Palmetto Alliance, a South Carolina-based anti-nuclear group. On Friday and Saturday, the protestors finalized plans and set up campsites on land leased from a local farmer.

Sunday’s activities began with a “legal” march to AGNS, three miles from the campsite. Approximately 1300 participated in this march escorted by police. Upon arrival at the plant, they presented a petition requesting that plant authorities meet with the group to discuss the problems of nuclear waste disposal. Plant officials responded by distributing copies of a short summary of their position. Protesters then released a number of helium-filled balloons which would illustrate a possible pattern of contamination should radioactive emission occur at Barnwell. In high spirits, the demonstrators returned to the campsite for the rally that evening.

Throughout the weekend, a general feeling of friendship and support prevailed. Communication between individuals and affinity groups was frequent, and everyone had ample opportunity to share their feelings and experiences with a tremendously diverse group of people. A rally began at 5:00 with folk music and anti-nuclear songs. These were followed by speeches by such prominent figures as Dr. Helen Caldicott of the Children’s Hospital Medical Center in Boston and Dr. John Gofman, co-discoverer of plutonium and Professor of Medical Physics at the University of California. A Japanese delegation from Hiroshima was also present. The evening was brought to a close with a moving outdoor concert by Jackson Browne.

Davidson students who participated in Sunday’s activities were Mott Blair, Jim Haynes, Melvin Johnson, Mike McGrady, Merle Miller, Lillith Otey, John Reed, Anthony SanFilippo, Bonnie Wright, and Angie Wright. At 10:00 Monday morning, everyone gathered to prepare for the second march. The demonstrators (see DAVIDSON, page 6)

Volume LXVII, Number TWENTY-SIX
The Davidsonian
Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036

Weather
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND! Partly cloudy through Saturday with a chance of rain on Sunday. Highs in the upper 70s.

May 5, 1978

A DAVIDSON exchange student, during a particularly hot afternoon recently, takes a break from studies to refresh himself with a cool drink of water. (David Litaker)

MacCormac urges tenure Committee
By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

Professor of Philosophy Earl MacCormac plans to propose at the faculty meeting next Tuesday the formation of an elective tenure committee for the purpose of faculty evaluation. The Tenure Committee, to be composed of five professors, two students, the Vice President for Academic Affairs, and the President, would “recommend faculty members for tenure to the Trustees through the President.”

After receiving recommendations for tenure from department chairmen, the Committee would deliberate on the recommendations through a “set of procedures and criteria” which would be drawn up and published by the Committee and approved by the faculty. The Committee would then “make recommendations to the President who in turn would make recommendations to the Trustees.”

“If the Committee and the President differ in their recom- (see MACCORMAC, page 2)

Police force, infirmary improve services
By CHARLESERWIN Staff Writer

This time last year, anybody even suggesting that the police station and infirmary were doing a good job might well have been hooted off campus. There was a standing joke about how the police did more to protect the Seven-Eleven down in Cornelius than they did to protect the students at Davidson. Chief Jackie Hughes was quick to admit that he and his men got "an awful lot" of criticism last year. Dean of Students Will Terry said that "people got totally disgusted with the infirmary...period."

Today, somebody suggesting that the police department and the infirmary are doing a good job might just be right. Ever since the college security force broke away from the town in January, according to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, who oversees all police action on campus, things have markedly improved.

"It's the best year we've had in a long time. It's a better, smoother operation than we've ever had. Things are much better," he observed. "Vandalism is way down."

Under the old system, according to Meetze, the town had too much administrative control over what was then Precinct Two. "We aren’t backing up the town as much," he said.

"The police thing...that’s really impressed me. Overall, we've been pleased with the new arrangement. We feel it’s more of an understanding of what the policeman’s duty is on campus," said SGA President Bruce Brown.

Hughes gave the SGA’s Security Committee much of the credit for the improvement. "The students are so much better than they were last year. The students seem to be a whole lot friendlier to us."

Brown identified what he sees as a closer tie between the police and Dean Terry as a major factor in the improvement. "There’s a closer relationship between the Davidson College Police Force and the Dean’s Office. That could be the most important thing."

Meetze laid much of the credit on The Davidsonian’s doorstep, saying that this newspaper’s coverage of security problems has made the student body more conscientious. Whatever the cause, Hughes said things really are better. "Larcenies have dropped off tremendously. During the whole month of April only three larcenies were reported."

(see POLICE, page 6)

Duncan appeal denied

This Tuesday the Review Board determined that the sanction probation given to Davidsonian Editor Philip Duncan is "appropriate in the total context" of his case. Duncan, charged with "interference with the rights of Professor of Physics Alan Wolf to maintain private possession over the contents of his faculty mailbox," (a violation of Section IV of the Code of Responsibility), pleaded guilty to the charge two weeks ago and was sentenced by the Hearing Committee to probation for the remainder of spring term.

In filing for appeal, Duncan asked the Review Board to consider if the severity of that sanction was in keeping with the violation he had committed. After conducting a hearing Monday, Review Board members John Kello (Professor of Psychology), Merlyn Schuh (Professor of Chemistry), and senior students Warren Soule and Jane Perkins upheld the Hearing Committee’s decision.

According to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure, Duncan has five days to decide if he wishes to appeal the Review Board’s decision to College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.