October 6, 1978

NEWLY ELECTED SGA Senators:
Seated in front: Melody Wilder, John Chung, Richard Terry; middle: Ann Burke, Andrew Miller, Ray Craven, Lisa Ballantyne; back: David
Sappenfield, Frank Clark, Melly Rice, Turley Howard; not pictured: Ron Davi, Diane Odom, Kenneth Fleming, Chip Legerton.

(Gregg Strader)

Area retirement community takes shape

By EDITH PARKER and HOWARD BROWNE
Staff Writers

Plans are continuing for the development of a Davidson retirement community that would be open to all interested alumni and
friends of Davidson College.

The community, which will be located on the McConnell Farm now owned by Davidson College, is, according to a local
spokesman, “the culmination of several years’ study by Davidson residents, including a number of retirees, who wish to continue living
in the town but realize that they will need increased care as they get older.”

At meetings held July 19 in Davidson and Charlotte, approximately one hundred and fifty residents expressed interest in the community,
which will be built in the western corner of the farm.

The remainder of the farm will be developed for faculty and staff housing.

Chester Prentice, director of Highland Farms, an investor-owned community in Black Mountain, N.C., is in charge of studies for the
project. Prentice is currently consulting with architects concerning estimates and ideas for the community.

If the project is found to be feasible, a corporation will be formed to buy the land from the college
and to set up the community.

Although the land will be bought from the college, the college’s involvement will end there. College Business Manager Robert Currie
explained, “The retirement community will be a completely separate operation from Davidson College.”

According to a survey form appearing in the July Davidson Update, current plans call for “a central health care facility,
a central dining room for meals as desired, and recreational and entertainment facilities.

In addition to the apartments and smaller rooms, some small houses similar to townhouses may be built in clusters,” the
plans continue.

“Unlike the smaller units, the houses would be occupant-owned, but would be sold back to the corporation when the owner
is unable or chooses not to remain there.”

The project will be financed by North Carolina investors who will receive a slight return on their investment.

Cost for dwellers will range from $5000 entry fee plus $265 monthly fee for apartments to $56,000 for three-bedroom cluster
houses.

Bernard selected

(Continued from page 1)

honor of four generations of the Vail family, prominent friends of the College, to whom they had been very close.

A member of the youngest generation, James D. Vail IV, graduated from Davidson in 1976, the same year in which
his parents, Mr. and Mrs. James D. Vail III, served as co-chairmen of Davidson’s Parents Council.

Bernard, with Bachelor's and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Virginia, taught at Yale University before coming to Davidson in
1955. He became a full professor here in 1959, and was chairman of the mathematics department for a number of
years until he resigned the post last year.

He has been a member of the Davidson Lions Club and elder of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann praised him as “a demanding yet compassionate teacher, with a keen sense of humor, a
forthright manner, and a conservative temperament.”

Students’ role ‘risky’

(Continued from page 1)

“I don’t want to be placed in the position of defending this in any ultimate way. Any number of groups,
I’m sure, would have done just as well. It was a matter of convenience,” said Melton.

He said that the entire school has had an opportunity to talk to the trustees at almost all their past
meetings, but that few people use the opportunity.

“At nearly every Trustee meeting there has been a time for students to communicate with Trustees. From my observation, they
are always poorly attended and I’ve never heard very much of substance discussed at them. I usually try to go
because it’s sort of embarrassing how few people are there,” said Melton.

He emphasized that this was not a regular Trustee Business Meeting, but was instead a special meeting devoted entirely to
the 1987 program. “It was, as one Trustee said, a ‘sales meeting,’” according to Melton.

Melton said that it might be considered “risky” to allow students to carry on unstructured one-to-one conversations, such as the
Friday interviews, during a fund-raising meeting, but that it was College President Samuel Spencer's idea not to give the Trustees
“a canned presentation.”

“If you think it’s all right for the College to go under, then you don't need anybody giving money to
it. But Davidson College is completely dependent on voluntary support,” said Melton.

Help cure cancer. Write now.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 1 p.m.

CHILDREN BY CHOICE
PLANNED PARENTHOOD

WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS

892-0208
