February 10, 1978

KATHERINE WHITNEY is the epitome of concentration as she focuses in on the bullseye. The rifle team is shooting well
and should be ready to surprise opponents in the post-season tournaments. [Gregg Strader]

Swimmers greet home meets

BY SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College swim team absorbed two more defeats, losing to Citadel and Appalachian by the scores of 54-59 and
51-61 respectively. Davidson swam fairly well but was overpowered by a strong and deeply manned Appalachian squad and then were
out-swum by a scrappy Citadel team. Davidson won two events against Citadel, those being the 400 medley relay and the
200 individual medley. The Citadel relay team showed tremendous desire.

Coaches tap Florida talent

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

The entire Davidson football coaching staff will be traveling to Florida Monday seeking to round out this year’s recruiting effort.
Although Davidson recruits through much of the South, Coach Dave Roberts explained why Florida receives a heavy emphasis. “The population
is such that in the Miami area we can get to 95 schools in a 55-mile radius. Here in North
Carolina, there are 170 high schools that play football. You would have to take four weeks to cover the area,
but in a period of four days, five coaches can recruit from West Palm Beach down and cover 90 schools.
So we can find a larger number of recruits in the state of Florida with less money.”

Roberts also pointed out that regarding North Carolina talent, many North Carolina schools concentrate their recruiting in North Carolina because
they can offer in-state tuition, which makes Davidson recruiting efforts in the state more difficult. Roberts explained that in Florida
the coaches will be getting in the players’ homes. The coaches will seek clues to a player’s character from his
family background in hopes of ascertaining whether a particular player would fit in at Davidson.

Roberts indicated that the recruiting priorities as far as positions this season ranked as follows: a kicker, a quarterback, and
linebackers. Roberts elaborated, “The first priority was the kicker. We needed a kicker. We're going to try to bring in
two kickers because what we’ve had in the past is we’ve brought in a kicker and it didn’t pan out,
so this year we’re going to try to bring in two. We’ve got one kicker committed right now. He has
kicked a 53-yard field goal which set the Florida record, so we’re pleased about that.”

In regards to quarterbacks, Roberts said, “The second priority was we wanted a quarterback. We had one come on campus
last night. He’s 6’6”, 200 lbs. out of Miami and is a very good thrower. We've had another kid from
Alabama on campus, and a young man named Brian Whitmire from Jacksonville, Florida who is 6’4”, 190 lbs. All of
these three quarterbacks are very good. We hope to get two or three to come to Davidson.”

“Our third priority was linebackers. It’s hard for us to tie up a linebacker who’s a very good linebacker in
high school and who’s smart enough to get in here. There are a lot of good linebackers, but they’re going
to the Pittsburghs and the Floridas and their GPA’s are 2.0-2.2—nobody with a 3.4-3.5 and a 1100 on the SAT’s.
What we'd like to do is find a fullback who has good size and can run but looks like he’d
hit you pretty good. We’re close on a few. We’re not talking to a great number of linebackers. We need
to hit four out of six or we'll end up starting to look a little bit again.”

Roberts also explained the yearly recruiting process, “We send out about 8000 cards, which is about ⅓ of the high
schools in the U.S., and we get a coach’s recommendation back on a player we ask for—any player in the
top 10 percent of his class and with extremely high SAT’s, 1000-1200, we want them in that category. Once we
get a name back we send out to the guidance counselor for a transcript, which immediately eliminates about 85 percent
of them. So we get it down to a working number of about 500-700 names...Then we hit the road recruiting.”

Financially, Roberts explained, aid to football players is handled the same as it is for every student, by the family
filling out a financial aid form. Roberts noted that there are 40 football players at Davidson who receive no financial
aid. He also indicated that the only advantage for a football player is that the coaching staff can supplement a
player’s financial aid with Wildcat Club money.if it desires. Roberts said of recruiting without the benefit of offering scholarships, “I
think it’s very much an advantage here because of our academic reputation. We can talk to the very best players
if they can qualify academically. We can go into Florida and find a young man that Florida’s recruiting or Tennessee’s
recruiting and if he can qualify we’ll go right into the home. We’re selling the academics, we’re also selling the
football because we think it’s super, but why we’re in the home and why we're allowed to recruit the kid
is because of our academic reputation, and so that’s helped us.”

“I think the system is the right system, I think this financial aid form very much puts the emphasis on
student athletes rather than at some of the larger schools now. Where you're a football player first and a student
when time allows. Here with this financial aid form a football player is just like anyone, you're a student first
and an athlete second.”

Free Recreation in Main Gym 2/10-2/16
Friday: 1 pm-3 pm; 5:30 pm-6 pm; 8 pm-midnight
Saturday: 5 pm-midnight
Sunday: 5:30-7 pm
Monday: 11 am-2 pm; 5:30 pm-7 pm
Tuesday: 11 am-2 pm
Wednesday: 11 am-2 pm
Thursday: 11 am-2 pm

Please Note: Some events may run over into free time. Also, all events in the gym are subject to change
at any time.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
GENERAL INSURANCE

In defeating Davidson's medley team, Bart Banks of the Citadel narrowly defeated Jonathan Washburn of Davidson in the 200 individual
medley by coming from behind on the freestyle leg of the race to out-touch Washburn at the finish. Davidson's record
dropped to 8-5 with the two defeats, but the team is not looking back. Captain Washburn epitomizes this positive and
confident attitude saying, “things should turn out differently in the Conference Championship. I think that I’ll be able to beat
Banks and our team should beat Citadel also.”

This weekend the Cats host two of their only home meets of the year. Their shortage of home meets is
due to the lack of diving facilities in the Johnston Gym pool. The team must swim away in order not
to forfeit the 16 points for diving. Divers Jim Kuster and Pete Neefus have done relatively well this year with
all factors considered. Each of them must drive into Charlotte in order to practice and with limited practice they have
excelled. The two meets this weekend will be against the College of Charleston at 4:00 on Friday afternoon and Emory
at 11:00 Saturday morning. The team’s next action will be in the three-day Southern Conference Championships to be hosted by
VMI in Lexington, Va.

“The meets this weekend will be exciting and competitive,” said Coach Pat Miller. “We should swim really well here at
home after four weekends on the road. We’re looking forward to swimming in front of the home crowd.” As a
special feature during Friday’s meet against College of Charleston, the divers will give a “special diving exhibition” which promises to
be entertaining.

Record shot down
By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Rifle Team, paced by junior Katherine Whitney, set a new school record in a narrow loss to
the powerful team from VMI at home last Saturday. The heavily favored Keydets, shooting their best match of the season,
posted a 1333 to edge out the Wildcats at 1325. Davidson’s score, however, is the school’s highest on record. The
match witnessed a group of shooters scoring 270 or better in match competition for the first time in a very
long while. Whitney posted a 273 and Senior Tom Miller came in at an even 270. Sophomore John Parham shot
a 268, followed by Junior Tom Niblock at 261. Reed Ellis, a freshman, rounded out the top five with a
254. Other Davidson shooters were Robbie Kirkendol and Nancy Cornwell at 244 and 239 respectively. Mike Pearson and Pat Stuart
posted 235’s and Louis Williams shot a 225.

Highlights of the match included Kirkendol’s 100 in the prone position, and scores of 87 and 86 in the standing
position by Miller and Whitney. The loss to VMI drops the Cats’ record to 13-6. Earlier in the week Davidson
upset the Citadel and defeated U.T. Chattanooga in a Southern Conference postal meet. This Saturday Davidson will host NCA&T and
U.T. Chattanooga in the last regular season match. The team will then compete in two post-season tournaments.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary
