Pamela Camerra, Acting Editor, G. Martin Hunter, II, Business Manager
Volume LXVII, Number Twenty-five
April 28, 1978

Opinion

Brown examines Code
By BRUCE BROWN
SGA PRESIDENT

When the 1976 Davidson College Constitution was formulated, some matters of policy were left deliberately unspecified. No specific procedures were
established for hiring and firing, promotion, and awarding of tenure to faculty members. The recently released Code of Faculty Evaluation
represents the first step in formulating these procedures. Before this document reaches its final form it will be debated by
the faculty and approved by the Trustees. It should also be considered and evaluated by the students. The importance of
these procedures hardly needs to be emphasized, especially in the light of the Linden and Devon “affairs.” This article seeks
to provoke discussion of two critical aspects of the document which involve the welfare of the college community: the students’
role in the evaluation procedure and the college’s continuing Christian commitment as outlined in the Statement of Purpose.

The six general points of faculty evaluation set forth in the Code include “(1) mastery of the field taught, (2)
excellence in curriculum design, (3) skill in communicating knowledge and in motivating students to learn, (4) personal concern for students,
(5) the capacity to exemplify by personal witness the intellectual and moral values for which the college stands, and (6)
service to the institution.” The document allows for student participation in judging criteria 3, 4, and 6. Section III, “Roles
of Faculty, Students, and Administration in the Evaluation Procedure,” limits student participation to a routinely administered evaluation form supplemented by
interviews and letters. But nowhere does the document require the introduction of interviews and letters in any part of the
process. Nor will students be invited to join in the discussion of points 1 or 5. In judging the excellence
of curriculum design students are specifically excluded from contributing in any substantive way. This will not do. Excellence in curriculum
design cannot be comprehensively judged without considering its effect in the classroom.

According to the Code, “by the very nature of their status, students are not in a position to assess professional
competence or even the design of syllabi, but they are in a position to comment on the instructor’s enthusiasm, his
or her concern for them, and whether or not they feel he or she has helped them in understanding the
subject matter.” For the most part, this view is sound; however, it does not explain the reduction of student participation
to mere statistics yielded by some variant of the S.I.R. form. Students are not competent to judge all facets of
professional ability. But as the Code points out, “Students are quick to perceive which of their instructors are active professionals,
which merely living on past capital.” Students may not be in a position to judge the total quality of a
syllabus or curriculum, but they can and should be allowed to comment upon them. In the past students have demonstrated
their eagerness and ability to discuss and responsibly criticize curriculum by creating courses, conferring with professors on the design of
courses, and speaking out on matters of educational policy. Statistics without spokesmen will be misused, not because of the ill-will
brought to bear by any individual but because statistics do not leave room for subjectivity. As Dr. Zimmermann notes throughout
the Code the element of subjectivity in evaluation cannot be eliminated; no impersonal formulae exist for the judging of character,
competence, or distinction. Yet reliance upon an “evaluation form” quashes the subjective element in student opinion by refusing it a
voice. Direct student involvement in the evaluation procedures will complement statistical analysis and make for a more comprehensive evaluation.

I do not wish to imply that the Code seeks the exclusion of student opinion in the evaluation of faculty.
It does not. But it should require the active solicitation of non-statistical student opinion on all points of evaluation. A
standard evaluation form without a living voice to interpret it will produce an inconclusive body of statistics, which may misrepresent
rather than represent actual attitudes.

The question of interpreting and realizing Davidson’s Christian commitment arises both in the hiring of new faculty and the granting
of tenure to the old. The complexity of the issue derives largely from conflicting interpretation of three lines of the
Statement of Purpose: “Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to the historic Christian
faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order and value to the whole of
life. Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits to the adventures of the mind.”
The statement is self-consistent, but recent events show a contradiction in its application by this administration. The Code should state
that Davidson’s Christian commitment does not imply a commitment to religious conformity. It makes no such statement. We fail to
see how a vocal non-Christian could be hired under the Code as it now stands; thus, we are not convinced
that anything in the college’s procedures for hiring and the awarding of tenure have changed since the Ron Linden case.
The joint statement issued in the midst of the Linden controversy still expresses the problems faced by this college. “The
crucial question, then, is whether that Christian commitment can best be served by a hiring policy which in practice excludes
the presence of non-Christians on the Davidson faculty.” We believe that the Code, by its tacit acceptance of a religious
requirement for tenure and hiring, will restrict faculty recruiting, cause further embarrassment to the college, and foster a misleading impression
of Davidson’s character. Institutional insecurity contributes nothing to Christian commitment; the conviction behind the commitment draws its strength from the
belief that Christianitybest defends itself in an open and accessible forum—not in isolation. In one approach lies all the rich
diversity which debate can foster, in the other lies a frank confession of weakness. I have tried to be as
clear and succinct as possible in presenting some objections to two major points of the Code. The Code, as it
stands, is unsatisfactory. There are other reasons and other parts of the Code which may and should give rise to
controversy. This document should not be affirmed and passed on as it stands. It contains too many ambiguities and entails
too many problems. Neither should it be incorporated into the corpus of the college regulations before a full and complete
discussion has been allowed to develop, and adequate time has been given for the amendment of this Code.

Letter to the Editor

Don't shaft Herb

To the Editor—

I wish to direct my comments in response to Mr. J. Eric Roskos on his attempt to give readers of
The Davidsonian the impression that “Premeds get shaft on MCAT test site” due to an “assertion of authority” by Dr.
Herb Jackson of the Art department. If this was your intention, Mr. Roskos, then you have been most successful with
your efforts. In doing so you have also directed unfair criticism at a man who is most dedicated to the
interests of Davidson College and its students.

Dr. Jackson has not, at any point, denied use of the gallery to anyone for testing or other “multi-purpose” activities,
including the April 15th MCAT tests. Although he controls the organization and operation of the type of art to be
exhibited, he has absolutely no authority to open and close the gallery at will, as you have mistakenly indicated. Dr.
Jackson had intended to have the exhibition moved aside on April 15 according to the wishes of those faculty in
charge of the MCAT testing, but the occurrence of Alumni Weekend (that same weekend) forced an administrative decision to leave
the gallery open for the visiting alumni.

As far as your statement that “the gallery was locked during the exam period” is concerned, I can only say
that I was working the normal weekend gallery shift—from 2-5 and that the gallery was definitely open with plenty of
excited and interested alumni looking at the Bearden show, the largest attraction to our gallery all year. Had the gallery
been used for MCAT testing, the noise of alumni registration just outside its doors in Chambers lobby would surely have
proved to have been a distraction anyway.

So it seems, Mr. Roskos, that the problem was not primarily due to the more than two years of planning
on the part of Herb Jackson to secure this show of Romare Bearden, the nation’s most recognized black artist, but
rather that there was not another room which could be used as an alternative multi-purpose room for MCAT testing.

In response to your statement that the gallery “was funded and built with the intention that it would be used
as a multi-purpose facility, but it is not used thus,” I must say that the original use of Chambers 100
was as a cafeteria and not as a “multi-purpose facility.” Since then it has been generously approved as the new
art gallery in addition to a multi-purpose room and fosters such masters as Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Albrecht Durer, Pablo Picasso,
and Toulouse-Lautrec, as well as other modern artists and the special exhibition series. Unfortunately, such an exhibition is considered a
priority secondary to the numerous functions which occur regularly and which are limiting the Bearden show to, at present, only
half of its originally planned operating schedule. Such functions include its use for the lecture series, luncheons, Update mailings, alumni
receptions, dinners, dances, and even testing programs as evidenced the following Saturday, April 22, when a test similar to the
MCAT (the GRE) was held.

I am sorry that such stagnant views as Mr. Roskos’ are representative of many similar verbal attacks on Herb Jackson
and his efforts to integrate “arts” into the supposed “liberal arts” structure here at Davidson, but I cannot believe that
asking ourselves, as Mr. Roskos suggests, “if Davidson values more its academic reputation, or its cultural status...” has any significance
to the integrity of Dr. Herb Jackson. Granted, Mr. Roskos, a problem does exist in trying to maintain such a
high caliber art gallery and in finding a place for an activity room, but to place the burden of this
awkward situation on Dr. Jackson or to imply that he is the cause for premeds “getting the shaft” is uncalled
for. Rather, I would think that the students and faculty would encourage and support the efforts of a man who
has struggled to maintain Davidson’s artistic significance and to establish a greater degree of truly “liberal” arts on our campus.

Greg M. Zeph ’81

Davidson College

LYMAN A. COLLINS, II
Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
JIM HARRY
GREYARD
DAVE NASH
News Editor
Features Editors
Sports Editor
DENNIS MCLAWHORN
ESTHER BRUCE
BARRY SACHTJEN
BILL PEEPLES
Editorial Editor
Focus Editor
Managing Editor
Editorial Page Editor
News Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH
ANN GARNER
MARSHALL WADDELL
Graphics Editor
PATSY D. DANIELS
Inside Art Editor
Photography Editors
MARGARET MILES
DAVID LITAKER
GREGG STRADER
Production Manager
HALL
Copy Editor
Special Assignments Editor
AMANDA DAVID ISENHOWER
ANN SHEAFFER
Circulation Manager
Advertising Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ
ADAIR GREEN

Department assistants: News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus—Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson; Circulation—Karen Long.

Published weekly during the academic year [except during holidays and examination periods] by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address:
Box 218. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. 28036.
