March 24, 1978
The Davidsonian Opinion 9

Davidson fosters, inhibits liberation
By SAM WEIR
Guest Columnist

As the editor has so tactfully reminded me, this column should have appeared over a month ago. Such delinquency can
best be explained by the general phenomenon familiar to all Davidson students, namely, that there exists more time at the
beginning of spring term than there is toward the end of winter term. With this in mind, I hope to
finish this series within a couple of weeks.

If you remember, we discussed the nature of a Christian college winter term. This week we will investigate the concept
of liberal arts and some of the problems associated with it. In the weeks ahead I hope to deal with
the topics of Christian Liberal Arts and Davidson.

The statement of purpose explains that "Davidson is a college of liberal arts. As such it emphasizes those studies, disciplines,
and activities that liberate mankind physically, mentally, and spiritually." But if liberal arts liberate, whom do they liberate, from what
do they liberate, and how do they liberate?

Liberal arts liberate individuals, both students and professors, from the bondage of uncritical assumptions. This emphasis on assumptions removes the
crucial focus of our educational experience from the realm of fact ("Benedict Spinoza was born on the 24th of November,
1632, at Amsterdam.") through the domain of epistemology (I am willing to accept this authority in the area of Spinoza’s
birth date) to the area of presuppositions. (My professor is an honest man who would not have me reading someone
who didn’t know.)

To give an example in the realm of ethics, liberal arts should take us from the realm of rules (do
not murder) through the area of values (human life ought to be preserved) to the domain of 'meta-ethics' (human life
ought to be preserved because human life has inherent worth).

To receive a liberal arts education, then, involves moving beyond exposure to different ways of life to critical examination of
these different ways of life to discover various beliefs. Further, liberation includes choice between these various beliefs and action based
on them. Liberation consists of sifting through possible world-life views, rationally choosing the world-life view you wish to act on,
and beginning to live according to your choice. It presupposes individuals who will be open to other values and who
will let their lifestyles grow out of their values. Socrates provides a good summary: to be liberated involves examining your
life so that you might truly know yourself.

Davidson both fosters and inhibits this liberation process. It fosters liberation when it exposes students to other world-life views and
encourages students to move beyond the realm of memorization to make the necessary step of synthesis. Davidson inhibits liberation when
it allows students to remain unchanged by the material they are presented with. This change may be of two types:
students reaffirm their earlier world-life view with a more critical understanding of what it involves; or students deny their earlier
world-life view in favor of a more rational one. In either case, if Davidson allows a student to avoid both
types of changes, then it is inhibiting liberation.

Unfortunately, Davidson socializes more students than it liberates. That is, instead of being truly liberated, students will come to Davidson
and, without critical evaluation, substitute the assumptions of a professor (or a hall counselor, fellow students, or fraternity) for the
assumptions uncritically assimilated from some earlier

Letter to the Editor
Tigers begin new club to promote Frisbee tourney
To the Editor:

Here at Clemson we have organized a Frisbee Club hoping to promote interest in this up-and-coming sport. We are involved
with several facets of Frisbee competition here on campus, but we would like to expand this promotion of the sport
over a wider area. For this reason, we are trying to set up an “Ultimate” Frisbee tournament. The reason we
have chosen Ultimate is that

Radiant sport has campus glowing
By REV. HYDEN SEEKER

Author’s note: The fact that this column has not appeared in The Davidsonian since Christmas may be explained in that
the cold, rainy weather characteristic of Davidson winters was not conducive to the author’s highest creativity. In other words, I
just didn’t feel like writing. However, now that spring is at least springing, faithful readers--both of them--can rest assured that
the good Reverend’s column will appear more regularly.

One of the more enticing items about spring is its outstanding array of sports activities. Whereas autumn’s favorite pastime is
football (assuming that flipping through the Wildcat Handbook is passé when football season begins) and basketball reigns supreme in winter,
there has not been a clear favorite spring sport.

Letter to the Editor
Peace, please
To the Editor:

We have started Project Peace to enhance the chances of World Peace. Starting today we hand the project over to
everyone in Davidson. It’s no longer our project alone. It is everyone’s project--everyone who feels Peace is a worthy cause.
Let us all work on this one.

Chuck Fiden ’78
Youssef Abagui [International Student]
Mark Hooper ’80
George Cornelson ’80

However,A leading contender that has been growing rapidly in popularity day by day is the Davidson SUN TEAM. Indeed, some
of these veterans of the Sun Team have petitioned Athletic Director Thom Cartwheel for NCAA Division I status, seeking eligibility
for interscholastic competition. A few of the members of the Sun Team were assembled on the roof of the gym
last week for an afternoon workout under sponsoring Head Coach, P.E. Director Bronze Spartan. Coach Spartan commented that the members
of the Sun Team are really serious about their tans. “Reverend, these kids—God love ‘em—they work out all year just
for competition in the spring. You know, a lot of people think that sunning is simply a spring and summer
sport. Lemme tell you, you wouldn’t believe the winter workouts that these players do under the lamp. Not only that,
they give up spring vacation to scrimmage in Florida. Incredible.” Spartan excused himself momentarily and barked out instructions to his
team. “Alright, on the whistle, roll over!” He marked the time on his watch and blew. The squad flipped over
on their stomachs. Spartan keenly observed their actions. “Hell, Johnston, what kind of flip was that? You better keep those
toes spread if you want to make All-Conference.” “Gee,” I remarked, “I never knew that sunning was so complicated.” “Well,
Reverend, like any sport sun-tanning has its different levels of competition. To the average hack, all sunning is, is lying
like a piece of beef rotting in the sun. And that’s fine for them, but those of us who really
love it go after the ‘All Tan.’” “What's the ‘All Tan’?” I asked, feeling totally uneducated. “That,” explained the coach,
“is a rich brown tan spread evenly over all exposed parts of the body. There can’t be any pinks or
peeling. That’s really tough in some areas, particularly the top of the forehead, behind the ears, between the toes, and
of course under the armpits.” “Coach, what are the basic fundamentals necessary for serious competition in this up-and-coming sport?” “First
of all, Reverend, you got to have the right equipment. A proper beach blanket is essential. It should be a
dark hue to pick up the rays, and shouldn’t have any coarse texture that leaves unsightly impression marks. The second
thing is the proper uniform. Preferably, that means nothing at all. But if a uniform is necessary, I suggest a
Speedo suit.” The coach apologized for not being able to continue, but had to continue the team’s workout, since its
first match resulted in a disappointing loss to Florida Southern. How well the Davidson Sun Team will compete in its
first season remains to be seen. One thing is certain, however, judging by the amount of practicing that has been
going on since the beginning of the term, competition on the intramural level should be very keen.

The process of socialization continues without the critical examination of liberation. Let’s face the facts: Davidson remains an upper middle
class WASP institution which affirms upper middle class WASP values and often encourages its students to uncritically conform to its
way of looking at the world. To conclude, then, liberal arts liberate people from the unquestioned values of their ‘unexamined’
life and allow them to make rational choices about the values they will live by in the future. At Davidson,
problems arise when students are allowed to continue living the ‘unexamined’ life through their own negligence and the pressures to
conform to the ‘Davidson way.’ The only guarantee that we are truly being ‘liberated’ lies within the individual. Each person
(both student and professor) must continually pursue liberation with the same intensity of effort with which he avoids conformity.

We feel it is a fine spectator sport that will provide entertainment to all who come out to watch. If
you are interested please contact: Daniel Hutton or Evan Lindsay 200 Eaton Street, Apt. 2 Central, SC 29630 803-639-2502 Birdie
Crosby 30 Stribling’s Trailer Park Clemson, SC 29631 803-654-1391 If you are unfamiliar with this game a copy of the
rules have been sent to the office of the publication. The Clemson Frisbee Club

Letter to the Editor

A term they won’t forget

To the Editor: May we through your good will thank the entire Davidson College community for welcoming us so warmly
and receiving us so generously during the winter quarter. We are returning to Princeton, New Jersey, with a wealth of
pleasant memories which we will cherish and recall from time to time with real joy. May we wish “you all”
every choice blessing in your life and work. Sincerely yours, Elmer G. and Ruth W. Homrighausen

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them
by the newspaper’s office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week’s
issue.
