January 27, 1978

Fund provides student outlet at a glance

ROTC scholarships

The Davidson ROTC department has recently been given “a great deal of latitude” in the execution of its program, to now offer three-year scholarships to non-ROTC freshmen as well. Because of Davidson’s fine reputation in ROTC—it is consistently ranked in the Eastern Seaboard (107 schools) top ten for the number of nationally scholarshipped cadets—any number of students may apply for a three-year scholarship, with no obligation. The scholarship pays all expenses except room and board, plus gives $1,000 a year for spending allowance.

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Students who have innovative ideas may be able to put them into practice by using money in a fund specifically designed for that purpose. An Activities Grant Fund was set up approximately six years ago when a Davidson graduate, Tom Dovington, donated $1000 to be used solely for the purpose of funding student activities that are academically related but not sponsored by an academic department.

The campus benefited as well, said Smith. The fund was also used for a trip to San Francisco by two Davidson coeds who attended a Women’s Conference there. Given a sum of about $100, they participated in the conference and presented a report when they returned to Davidson.

Not all requests are granted. Hutchings cited one example in which a group of people wanted some money to put on a play in the 900 Room. They were denied the money because the play was for academic credit. The scholarship is based on academic and extracurricular record, and recommendation by a professor in the student’s major.

Davidson has an impressive percentage of students accepted for scholarships every year—in Spring, 1977, five of seven cadets who applied were selected, raising the school total to 44 ROTC scholarship students. For more information contact Captain Jerry Flannigan in basement Belk or extension 167.

Dean Rusk Scholars

This spring term six students from the St. Paul’s Schools of England will study at Davidson under the Dean Rusk Scholars Program. This will be the second year of the program. The students will have completed the equivalent of high school and they hope to attend Oxford or Cambridge University next fall. They receive from Davidson scholarships of room and tuition. This program honors Dean Rusk, a 1930 alumnus who was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford and U.S. Secretary of State. It is common for British students to seek new educational experiences between secondary and higher education, such as foreign travel or study. The benefits of the program for Davidson include increasing the number of international students here and establishing contacts with Englishmen. The St. Paul’s Schools began at St. Paul’s Cathedral in London. They were founded by a medieval guild which became the Mercer Company. They now have their own facilities in the suburbs, one for each sex, which are well known in England.

Spring Externships

The Activities Grant Fund is primarily for student use. “Originally it was set up to encourage students to do something that hadn’t been done before,” said Smith. The fund is designed to provide funds for a student or organization to carry out an innovative idea that will benefit the campus generally. For example, a Davidson student who wanted to apply for funds should present a proposal to the Board. The Board, organized approximately 10 years ago, consists of the Union Board President, two Union Board Vice-Presidents, the Vice-President of the SGA, and these can be made directly to the Activities Grant Fund, according to C. Shaw Smith, Director of the Union. He also pointed out that once the Union Board gives money to the Activity Grant Fund, it cannot take the money away to use for other purposes.

The fund has depleted the original sum to about $300, but none of the money has been replaced. However, application is easy and is encouraged, said Hutchings, a student who expressed hope that both the Union Board and the SGA could reallocate their funds and designate a set amount to go solely to the Activities Grant Board. Smith summed up the Activities Grant Fund, “So far, not much has been done with it. It’s here, it’s practical, it’s a great idea, and it has some real service possibilities.”Student had a friend who wrote poetry. The Activities Grant Board gave the student $75 and helped him with advertising. This type of project helped not only the student but also the community.

By CLAY MACAULAY
Staff Writer

Director of Slater Food Services Ron Scott and members of the Student Government Association (SGA) Subcommittee on Food Quality met this week to discuss the criticisms that surfaced in the subcommittee’s survey of Slater before Christmas. The survey indicated that the students’ major complaints are overcrowded conditions and too much starchy food, as well as the lack of fresh fruit and green vegetables.

Scott pointed out that changes have been made and will be taken if necessary. Scott also offered some suggestions to students that would enable them to improve the food system. He said that students should take only one serving of each vegetable and dessert while going through the line, and come back to the line for seconds in order to prevent running out of dishes so quickly and wasting uneaten food. When fresh fruit is served, he asked that students do not carry it out of the dining hall. A prevention of this practice will enable Slater to serve more fresh fruit, he said.

The Office for Experiential Programs has arranged for 45 Davidson students to participate in one-week Extern Programs over spring break. The students will be involved in externships such as public relations, banking, law, community development, environmental science, and medicine. The various locations of the programs include Atlanta, Charlotte, Chapel Hill, Richmond, Washington D.C., and rural areas.

Director of the Office of Experiential Programs Ken Wood says the purpose of the Extern Program is “to help students get some career exposure.” “Sometimes the students will take on a task,” he added, but he said more often they are just observing with the professionals they are working with. Alumni and friends of the College sponsor the students involved in the program, now in its fourth year. Wood said that it still may be possible to arrange some more placements if it’s a new program, “but it’s getting late.”

Attention: On Sunday evening, one of the busiest nights of the week, students must have their I.D. card to use the gym. In order for anyone off-campus to use the gym (non-students, resident children, etc.), they must be cleared by Captain Jack Richards of the Davidson College Police Department.

Scott added that students should take advantage of the earlier opening of Richards House on Sunday evenings, when it is open. The food is prepared in the same kitchen, and Back and Bailey can actually serve more people faster than Richards. Cup conservation at Slater Food Services has netted $347 for CROP in the past several weeks. He also encouraged students to continue to bring down cups at mealtime. “Since this project began last term over $340 has been donated to CROP, but the amount is beginning to increase again,” he explained.

International student Youssef Abagui is conducting a series of discussions on the Middle East, beginning this Friday, January 27, from 10:15 to 11 am in the Morrison Room. Abagui says he will try, through the use of filmstrips, discussions, and question-answer periods, to offer the “other side of the story” as it is presented by the media.

Criticisms will continue to arise from those dissatisfied with Slater, said Scott, but improvements have been made. Improvements since Christmas by Slater, such as the “soup kettle” and the stack of newspapers for students to read during breakfast, have proven successful. Other improvements are planned for the near future, Scott concluded.