October 27, 1978

The Davidsonian

Fast food thrives

By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

Editor's note: This is the first of several articles dealing with nutrition at Davidson. Students at Davidson have several eating
options, including the fast foods of Slater, vegetarianism at several houses, and the challenge of cooking on one’s own. The
Davidsonian would like to examine these various options. The first article concerns nutrition at ARA Slater and “fast food” at
Davidson.

How do you handle a Big Mac Attack at Davidson? Head for the Snack Bar to get a Wildcat Special,
of course. The snack bar provides the “fast-food” on campus. It is possible to eat a balanced meal there; however,
vegetables are a problem. Salads are the only option. A greater percentage (70%) of the freshmen eat in Richards and
Bailey than in the snack bar. This is understandable since the $1.75 limit of the meal card has more net
worth in the two houses. Slater does try to keep the prices at the snack bar lower than those of
the outside market. Many students prefer to eat at the snack bar over Hardee’s or Harmon’s since the food is
cheaper and also easier to get to.

Reasons given by freshmen for eating at the snack bar vary. “The food is good for a snack bar.” “Sometimes
Slater is really bad!” “It’s a change of pace.” “The snack bar offers a wider variety.” Breakfast seems to be
the most popular time to eat in the snack bar. Students with afternoon classes prefer to “sleep late and eat
after ten.” Although the breakfast foods can be considered “fast foods,” they are nutritional. One nutritional breakfast within the meal
card limit includes eggs, toast, grits, sausage, and a small orange juice. Another option is cereal with milk, an order
of sausage or ham, and a small orange juice with money left for a Danish or a couple of donuts.

The snack bar and its fast foods are also popular “for late night snacks” and with students who have “the
munchies!” When some eating houses on Patterson Court don’t serve a weekend meal, many of the students eat at the
snack bar.

Whether the student at Davidson eats a balanced meal at Slater depends on his knowledge of nutrition. The daily nutritional
requirements are offered in a variety of ways but the choice remains the student’s. A nutritional fast food lunch or
dinner under $1.75 is the Wildcat Special with lettuce and tomato, a salad, and milk. Another choice could be soup,
the ham and cheese sandwich on rye with a glass of lemonade.

When asked if Slater has considered switching to a more profitable fast-food oriented menu at Richards and Bailey, Ron Scott
replied no. Any basic changes made in the menu are based on the popular item against the nonpopular one. “One
upcoming menu change is the removal of corned beef and cabbage as an entree since the students don’t eat it,”
said Ron Scott. “The corned beef will probably be used in Reuben sandwiches in the future.” In this instance, the
entree change is towards a popular sandwich type food. But the students, not Slater, decided on this minor move towards
fast foods.

Rates:
1 year $6.00
2 years $11.00

CLEMENT GREENBERG, the visiting Reynolds Lecturer and art critic, assesses art in a very individualistic manner. (Gregg Strader)

Greenberg invites us to look

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Features Editor

“The kind of criticism that interests me is where value judgments abound,” statedClement Greenberg: "Where value judgments don’t abound, I
lose interest." Greenberg, an internationally respected art critic and visiting Reynolds lecturer, uses a very personal approach when evaluating art.
When asked what determines good art, he answered quickly, "I don’t know, but I can tell. It’s as mysterious as
recognizing the color blue in the sky."

This individualistic approach to assessing art is reflected in Greenberg’s method of teaching art appreciation. "I would not ask anyone
to analyze a painting in teaching art appreciation," Greenberg explained. "I would just ask the student to point out which
picture, out of several in a room, he or she liked the best." Then Greenberg would point out the one
he preferred and "we’d go to another room and choose again. We’d keep doing it. Then later I’d tell you
something irrelevant."

The "irrelevant" information includes factors that people mistakenly believe have something to do with the effect of art. The Impressionists
and their use of complementary colors is the example Greenberg gave for this misconception. He believes that such techniques can
be used with a bad picture as well as a good one. "It has nothing to do with explaining the
effect of a picture," he stated.

Greenberg’s very strong feelings about "good" art over "bad" art have caused him to be labeled "reactionary." But he senses
that there is a "steady pressure of a lowering of standards" in art and he fights this. When asked to
explain this idea of good over bad art by commenting on what is quality in art, Greenberg again offered a
highly individualistic explanation. "It (quality) is the reason we choose to remember Shakespeare and not Philip Morris. It’s why we
hang Rembrandt and leave many other Dutch artists of his time out. It’s why we like one rock and roll
song more than another. That’s good and bad. Or, at least, it’s better and worse."

Greenberg became an art critic "out of presumption." "I could draw. I felt I knew art from the inside so
I could write about it. I found out I didn’t know as much as I thought." However, he believes that
experiencing art is the only way to improve art criticism techniques and Greenberg has been at it for about thirty
years.

Greenberg sees the function of an art critic as one of calling attention to things. "I point out what is
good, what is overrated," he elaborated. He does this by stating the truth and generating copy. As an art critic,
Greenberg is aware of the fact that the notion of high culture itself is under attack. The implication, he believes,
is that the ruling classes impose low culture on the lower classes. "There’s nothing in my experience falser than that,"
he stated.

Greenberg thinks good culture is open to all. "The truth is that the majority has never really been deprived of
good art," Greenberg explained. "What we call popular culture appeared as something designed for the market but was dependent on
the market. The mass market could pay for what it wanted. The mass market got what it wanted." Greenberg stands
firm on his belief that "Nothing is forced on anybody." He sees his role as an art critic as one
of stating his personal reaction but not imposing it. "You’re always inviting the reader to look for himself," Greenberg explained.
