April 21, 1978

Washburn, Tanner honored

By EMIL PARKER
Sports Information Director

Jonathan Washburn, an economics major who saved a swimming program from near bankruptcy, and Beth Tanner, a biology major who put life into several sports, are the 1978 winners of Davidson College's highest athletic awards.

Washburn, a senior from Wilmington, N.C., received the Tommy Peters Memorial Award, presented annually to the student who best exemplifies the Davidson spirit in intercollegiate competition. Tanner, a senior from Charlotte, won the Rebecca Stimson Award, given to the woman athlete who fulfills the same criteria as the Peters’ Award winner.

Co-winners were announced for the Thomas D. Sparrow Award, given in recognition of outstanding dedication and contribution to intercollegiate athletics. Jerry Taylor, who participated in football and track, and Phil Blue, a four-year student trainer and photographer for athletics, shared the Sparrow Award.

Nancy Brown, a senior from Lake Forest, Ill., claimed the first annual Coaches Award in women’s athletics. It will be presented annually to the woman athlete who meets the criteria established for the Sparrow Award.

Washburn, current Southern Conference champion in the 400 meter individual medley, holds 12 of 17 possible school records. Academically he carries a 3.6 grade point average of a possible 4.0. “As far as I am concerned Jonathan is THE swimming program at Davidson,” said Coach Pat Miller. “He came in and revived interest when there was very little. Also, he worked hard and got better every year from an individual standpoint.”

In Washburn's sophomore year Davidson had only nine swimmers participating. During 1977-78 the Wildcats had more than 30 participants, posted a 9-4 record in dual meets and finished fourth in the Southern Conference championships as Washburn won the 400 IM.

Tanner has been one of the pioneers in women’s athletics at Davidson, helping start the field hockey program, which has been in existence for two years. In basketball she has been a regular for four years. She holds the school career scoring record with 792 points, the assist record with 214, and as a junior set a single season assist record with 67. She started for both of those teams.

Optimistic golfers eye tourney

By MIKE KENNEDY
Staff Writer

The golfers have been active this past week, tuning up their game for the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament. If recent scores are any indicator of future performances, the Cats should be more than ready for next week’s tourney.

This past Friday, the Cats traveled to Baden, N.C., home of the Berkely County Golf Club to face Pfeiffer and St. Andrews. Over a tight and difficult track, the team rolled to 23 and 25 stroke victories. Despite the totally unfamiliar layout, the Cats claimed undisputed medalist honors. Veteran Jim Heard and sophomore Scott Gilmore led the tri-match with 2 over par 75’s. The always dependable Sollie Foy chipped in with a fine 76 and L.D. Simmons contributed a solid 77, resulting in the team’s total: 303 to Pfeiffer’s 326 and St. Andrew’s 328.

Tuesday, the team traveled to rain-swept Salisbury County Club, the home course of professional Tim Tallant, who also functions as Davidson's golf coach. With tees all the way back, and pins tucked in the tightest places, the Cats took on the squad from Catawba College. What seemed to be an easy rout initially, turned into a narrow 5 stroke defeat of Catawba. Once again the leader for the Cats was the dedicated Jim Heard, with a strong 76. Sollie Foy provided support with his 77, and junior Joe Davis and freshman Bill Baird each shot 81 to round out the team score of 315 to Catawba’s 320.

By virtue of the golfer’s potent performances this past week, the team is very optimistic about their chances for the Southern Conference title. This tournament, incidentally, will be making headlines as Beth Daniel, the current U.S. women’s amateur champion, will be representing the Furman University men’s golf team. An average collegiate golfer in the men’s ranks, she has fared quite well thus far in her regular season.Linebacker, but his career was limited by a series of injuries. However, he has been a key in Davidson's track resurgence this spring and recently set a Davidson Relays record in the hammer. A senior from Tuscaloosa, Ala., Taylor has a 3.3 grade point average in sociology. Blue, a senior from Sanford, has not participated in any sport but has served as a key member of Davidson's training staff and as a student football and basketball game photographer. In March, the National Collegiate Athletic Association selected him to film the NCAA first-round basketball playoff games at Charlotte. He has a 3.8 GPA in history. Brown has been one of Davidson’s most active women athletes, starting for the field hockey team she helped organize, playing regularly for the tennis team, and also participating in track and basketball. 

In her last outing, she managed to break 80 in all 3 rounds and finished second in the Furman ladder. Although she claims that her motives for playing are void of feminist gains, she nevertheless will surely offer a challenge to the men of the Davidson team. Jim Heard, when asked about the tourney and his team’s chances, replied creatively, “The Cats are on the prowl.” No doubt Heard and the rest of the Davidson team will be ready for this tourney when it starts this coming Monday.

Confident Cats roll
By DAVID REICH
Staff Writer

Davidson's tennis team boosted its overall record to 23-3 and its conference record to 5-1 with an important victory over Appalachian State last Saturday. The highlights of this victory were individual wins by Mike Barnhill, Chip Bondurant, and John Trout. Barnhill defeated Ivano Romano 6-3, 6-1; Bondurant defeated Davis Babb 7-5, 6-2; and Trout won 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 over Pravin Mahari. The Cats also played well at the number one and number two doubles spots. Bondurant and Jay Gepfert defeated the established doubles team of Babb and Dan Weant at the number one position, and Barnhill and Gil Kayton defeated Romano and Karl Johnston 6-3, 6-4 at the number two position.

Although Coach Frank was extremely pleased with the overall results of the Appalachian match, he stated that “if we play as badly as we did in some of our singles matches, we could lose our upcoming match with Furman before the doubles.” Nevertheless, Frank emphasized a positive outlook for the upcoming conference tournament. He stated, “Although UT-C and Furman will be favored, we should have a fairly good chance of winning the conference championship.” Since the conference tournament is played on Furman’s slow hard courts, and the Cats have many upperclassmen in crucial positions, Frank’s optimism seems correct. As he stated, “We have perhaps the best chance in several years of winning the tournament.”

Cattes seek net title
By LISA JOHNSON
Staff Writer

The Varsity Women’s Tennis Team winds up their 1978 season this week as they depart for the state tournament. The girls lost a close match with Furman earlier this week and unfortunately a match with Queens was canceled due to inclement weather. The team has compiled a 7-6 record and has faced extremely tough competition this year. Tennis is a game of singles as well as doubles and Coach Pat Miller’s doubles teams have been very effective at pulling out those victories. Kirk Cameron and Hope McArn have paired up, playing at the number one position. The other top doubles combinations are Mary Gilliam and Nancy Brown, and Anne Stanback and Grace Morgan. Fortunately, this year many girls have been able to play in the doubles slots. Miller is expecting the Wildcattes to do well in the state tournament, which is scheduled for this weekend, April 20-22 at High Point College. Their goal is to bring back a total victory in the Small College, Division II Tournament.

We do not have this, but we have what you want:
Levi Jeans and Putter Pants
Tennis shirts and shorts
Bass Boat Moccasins
Sailing parkas
Dress Slacks and Shirts
and we cash checks for Davidson

Join hock Gon Mooresville - 6 miles North.