Prisoners welcome visitors Numerous volumes await use in Rare Book Room

By DR. MARY BEATTY
Faculty Columnist

Most Davidson freshmen catch a quick glimpse of the Rare Book Room during orientation. If any impression lingers at all, it’s of a big handsome room with elegant furniture and rugs and paintings—a nice place to show off to visitors on campus. But why call it a book room? The casual visitor might scarcely be aware of any books at all. Where are they, how available are they for use, and what makes them rare?

The books are in grill-front cases on either side of the fireplace, along one side wall, and in two alcoves. Both the cases and the room itself are kept locked, and for the same reason—because the contents are unusually valuable and, in one way or another, fragile. We pride ourselves on the openness of our Library, on our freedom to browse anywhere in it and select books. The Rare Book Room is necessarily an exception to this, but even so, it is more accessible than most people realize. Any student who wants a leisurely look at the room or would like to show it to a visitor may get the key at the Reference Office. All we ask is that you respect the age and quality of its contents.

The large walnut secretary on the east wall is from the sixteen hundreds—the oriental rugs, gifts of the Candler family, are unusually fine—the paintings, part of the Horton estate, represent a variety of styles and periods and include an interesting profile study of George Washington, drawn from life.

All books in the Rare Books Room are listed in the Card Catalogue, of course. If you should want to look at a particular one, a staff member will be glad to get it for you to use in the Library. Naturally, this isn’t quite as fast and simple as getting a book from an open shelf, and arrangements have to be made when there is a staff member on duty (that is, any time except lunch or dinner time or after 10:00 P.M.), but no one need feel that the materials in the Rare Book Room are shut away out of reach. They are not; you can see any one of them, nearly any time.

What is there to see? There are about 1,000 books in the Rare Book Room. Some of them are rare primarily because of their age, such as the parchment-bound edition of Seneca printed the year Columbus sailed to the New World. This is one of Davidson’s two incunabula, books from the second half of the fifteenth century which was the cradle (cunae) time of printing. The other is a life of St. Thomas a Becket, one of only six known copies, printed in Paris in 1495 in a heavy Gothic type very unlike the clear Roman typescript used for the Seneca.

Not all the early books in the Rare Book Room are so weighty in subject matter. The Library has two editions of Alciati’s Emblem Book, an extremely popular sixteenth-centurywork designed to teach morals to the young by setting forth a topic (“Greed,” for example) and illustrating it by a picture and a short Latin poem. A particularly interesting work in the Rare Book Room is a copy of the 1668 edition of “Paradise Lost,” almost identical to the first edition of the preceding year. There are many more modern first editions and autographed books in the collection, including works by Virginia Woolf and Eugene O’Neill. Most are from very limited editions. People often think that a book must be old to be rare, but, in fact, the strength of Davidson's Rare Book Room lies in its collections of beautifully printed, limited editions published at private presses in the early decades of the twentieth century. We have among the finest existing collections of books printed at the Golden Cockerel Press in England, for example, many printed on handmade paper and illustrated with wood engravings by Eric Gill and other artists. Another special collection within the Rare Book Room contains over one hundred of the finest books designed by the typographer Bruce Rogers (1870-1957), a friend of Davidson alumnus H.M. Marvin '14 to whom the College is indebted for a great many gifts to the Rare Book Room. Davidson’s rare books can’t be put into only a few categories. Some are exceptional for a particular feature such as the 1615 “Breeches Bible” with its unique translation of Genesis 3:7: “...they sewed fig tree leaves together and made themselves breeches.” Others are important because they represent a development within printing. A three-volume edition of Cicero's Orations, printed in Venice at the Aldine Press in 1546, is an example of this. Each volume is entirely in italics and is very small, typical of the work of the printer Aldus Manutius who was the first to use italic type and to popularize the small book. The Rare Book Room is more than just a pretty face. It’s a collection point for a variety of fine works of art whether the art be printing, cabinet-making, painting, or the creation of oriental rugs. You're invited to take advantage of the beauty it contains.

March 31, 1978

VOLUMES IN the Rare Book Room, seemingly imprisoned, are valuable resources available to Davidson students. (David Litaker)

BASIC OUTLOOK ON LIFE

If you're starting to look at life after college, try our “basic” outlook. Apply for the special Two-Year Army ROTC Program during your sophomore year. Attend a six-week Basic Camp this summer and earn $500. It’s tough. But the people who can manage it are the people we want to serve as officers in the active Army or Reserves. Do well at Basic and you can qualify for the Army ROTC Advanced Program in the fall. You'll earn $100 a month for 20 months your last two years in college. And the opportunity for a two-year full tuition scholarship. You'll also receive the extra credentials that will distinguish you in whatever career you may choose. Try our “basic” outlook on life.

CALL MAJOR VAN A. COLLINS 704-892-2000, Ext 170

ARMY ROTC. THE TWO-YEAR PROGRAM.