February 17, 1972

The Davidsonian

Gridders see experience as the key

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

A guarded but pervading optimism surfaces when talk with the Davidson coaching staff shifts to the upcoming football season. Coach Dave Roberts explains, “I think this year for the first time we’ve got about 20 seniors and we’re going to be pretty good. Leadership is super. All of the seniors are getting involved in these classes we’re running in the off-season.”

Roberts says of the classes: “They’re physical education classes—anybody can get into them. We encourage the football players to jump in there. It kind of goes with the seniors each year. This year they’ve jumped right in and everybody else has jumped in behind, and now they’re working like crazy—it’s contagious! Now everybody is pretty excited about what’s about to happen.”

Roberts pointed out that “through about the sixth game of the season, we as coaches find out we had some pretty good players here—some very good players at certain positions. We don’t have the time to spend on the practice field or in meetings that some of our opponents do, so we can’t get as refined. But we don’t want to. We’ve got super good players. We want to go back to the very basic fundamentals and just get super good at the basic parts so we can line up and we don’t have to be tricky to beat somebody.”

Although this year’s recruiting effort is expected to be successful, it is not a factor in the optimism about the upcoming season. Roberts illustrates the situation facing a freshman, “A freshman who comes in here in athletics is really gung ho athletics the first two weeks of preseason, because there are no classes. Once the classes start he gets his eyes opened in a hurry. His progress on the football field slows down.”

Rout Hampden-Sydney

Wrestlers win first

By JEFF HARRIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team traveled north this past weekend in search of their first victory of the season. The team wrestled Washington and Lee Friday evening and Hampden-Sydney Saturday afternoon.

In the match against Washington and Lee, Pat McKinsey, in the 134 lbs. class, pinned his opponent with a well-executed lateral drop in the second period. Davidson was forced to forfeit the 142 lbs. class due to a knee injury to Glenn Ballard earlier in the week. Pat Dulaney, who was resting from the flu, did not wrestle against Washington and Lee, planning instead to conserve his strength for the match against Hampden-Sydney. Dulaney was replaced in the 150 lbs. class by freshman Bill Allen, who lost a decision to his W&L opponent. Anthony Sanfilippo, Scott Phillips, and Rob King won by decisions in the 167 lbs., 177 lbs., and heavyweight classes. However, the absence of consistent winners, Ballard and Dulaney, and W&L wins in the five other classes gave Washington and Lee the victory by a score of 33-18.

Entering their match against Hampden-Sydney, Davidson was eager for victory and the results of the match were impressive. The Cats gave up only six points and those were the result of a forfeit by Davidson in the 118 lbs. class. Every other Davidson wrestler won his match. Rich Reich pinned his opponent in one minute to win the 126 lbs. class, which was the quickest pin of the season for any Davidson wrestler. McKinsey won his second match of the weekend with a 10-5 victory in the 134 lbs. class. Allen moved down to the 142 lbs. class to fill the void left by the injured Ballard and won his match by a score of 10-5 to take his first win in collegiate competition. Dulaney, rested after his bout with the flu, won the 150 lbs. class by a score of 10-2, while Pete Johnson won the 158 lbs. class by forfeit. Sanfilippo, in the 167 lbs. class, dominated his opponent to win 12-4. It was his third victory in a row. Phillips and King in the 177 lbs. and heavyweight classes both won by pins and Mike Garfinkle won the 190 lbs. class by forfeit. It was an important victory for the wrestling team. Hopefully, the Cats can continue their winning ways in the two remaining matches against Furman.and VMI. When questioned about their hopes for the Southern Conference Championship tournament, Ballard replied, “No one is looking for us to do anything, so we have nothing to lose and everything to win. We have some people who should win at the tournament.”

Field for maybe the first three weeks of the classes moves up. Then the papers become due and his progress on the football field just goes right down.

“So we prefer not to have to play a freshman, because rightfully so, they’re worrying about, ‘Hey, I’m an A student coming out of high school and now I’ve got a C or a C-plus. I’m doing the best I can so why shouldn’t I get an A?’

“So they’re struggling with the academics and football is way out in left field somewhere, which we understand until they put it together.”

Thus in regards to the upcoming season, Roberts is not, with the exception of the kicking department, counting on any immediate help from the incoming freshmen. Roberts summed up his sentiments, “We’re counting on a very good season. We’re looking forward to it. Our seniors have worked very hard. They deserve something very good and that’s what we’re aiming for, to send them out with a very good taste in their mouths.”

The swimmers closed out their season with a strong performance. The team is now hoping to place well at the S.C. tournament this weekend.

[Gregg Strader]

Swimmers eye S.C. Tourney
By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Wildcat Tankers finished strong this past weekend with dual meet wins over Emory and College of Charleston. The Cat swimmers ended their regular season with a 10-5 record. The team now moves on to Lexington, Va., and the Southern Conference championships which start today and will run through Saturday.

Highlighting these two meets was the performance of Jonathan Washburn. Washburn set a new school record in the 200 freestyle on Friday against Emory. Washburn also teamed with Tom Spangler (backstroke), Mark Tommerdahl (butterfly), and Ray Craven (freestyle) as they wiped out the existing school record for the 400-yard medley relay. Washburn swam a strong breaststroke leg for the relay. His time or “split” from the medley relay showed that he was well under the school record for the 100 breaststroke. However, in order to set the record he would have to swim the 100-yard breaststroke in individual competition and not with the medley relay.

Washburn got his chance the next morning against the College of Charleston who requested that a 100-yard breaststroke be swum rather than the standard 200-yard breaststroke. The reason for the request was that the College of Charleston hoped to qualify one of its swimmers for the nationals in the 100-yard breast and hoped that its swimmer would be able to get under the qualifying time. The race turned out to be all Washburn, however, as he led from start to finish and did establish a new school record. That gave Washburn three records for his weekend’s work.

Washburn and the team are not finished yet with the school records. Many records should fall in the three-day conference championship. The swimmers will be “shaving down” for this meet and this factor will cut times considerably. The absence of hair on the legs and arms and sometimes the chest (Marshall Brown) decreases the friction that the swimmer encounters as he strokes through the water. Most of the team will also wear bathing caps as another way to negate frictional forces between water and swimmer.

Besides school records which will be broken, there is the distinct possibility that a couple of Davidson swimmers could break Conference records. Tommerdahl returns to defend his 200 butterfly championship and record of last year. He will face a strong field, most of whom he has already competed against over the regular season. Washburn also has the potential to break some records and win some events. Marshall and Appalachian are to be favored, but Davidson will challenge for third against the other teams.

NOW GOING ON!
WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY
The “Door Buster” Sale Event of the Year. Do Not Miss It!
John Mack & Son
Only Six Miles North — Mooresville