acl treme” BVO wedmnevald

Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter II, Business Manager

Volume LXVIII, Number NINE
November 3, 1978

Sneak Preview

We're going to drop a “hot news tip” on you this week so you’ll know something of what The Davidsonian
is going to be up to during the coming winter term.

One of the big, continuing stories to follow in the next months has to do with academics and teaching, two
things with which everyone at Davidson is concerned. So what’s the story? Evaluation. Evaluation of Davidson's faculty and its courses.
It doesn’t sound very exciting. There are codes and committees involved; no walkouts and protests over evaluation. It may not
sound like big news, but we can assure you that it is of vital concern to anybody here who cares
about getting an education.

In early December, the faculty will decide whether it wants to assume a leading role in the challenging task of
evaluating and improving its performance. During years past, professors have been reluctant to “grade” their peers; they have left the
tough business of faculty evaluation, of granting and denying contract extensions and tenure, to the President and his administration.

But that historic reluctance is evaporating. In December, the National Affairs Committee (PAC) will propose that professors themselves (probably senior
or tenured professors) direct the process of faculty evaluation. If the Committee is established, no longer will the administration be
the sole judge of a professor's teaching abilities, his research work and scholarship, his intellectual values and concern for students;
the faculty will become a full participant in evaluation through a Tenure Committee. When professors are actively involved in judging
their own teaching, scholarship, and commitment to students, the Davidson education will improve. We applaud the PAC’s work and urge
the speedy passage of a Tenure Committee proposal.

On the heels of the Tenure Committee vote should follow final faculty approval of the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedure,
Vice President Zimmermann’s treatise which details what Davidson is looking for in its professors and explains exactly how evaluations will
be conducted. Untenured junior professors watch carefully the progress of the Code, for their jobs will stand or fall to
the degree that they meet its guidelines.

Zimmermann introduced the Code last spring, and since then just about everybody—the PAC, the SGA, this newspaper, and others—have taken
a turn at trimming it down. Further modification of the document is likely; a Tenure Committee, if passed, would have
to be integrated into it. But the Code has been on the drawing board for some time; now in its
fourth draft, it’s probably about as good as it is going to get. We urge the faculty to make final
revisions soon and adopt the Code by early January, 1979.

What has the student to do with all this? Not much, at least for now. If a student thinks that
one of his professors could stand some improvement, or if the student wants to laud a capable and concerned instructor,
there’s very little way he can get that message to the people who count, the people who run the evaluation
show. The PAC and SGA may change all that during winter term. The PAC is currently researching the techniques employed
by other schools who give students input into faculty evaluation. Early in 1979 they will likely propose a system that
will allow Davidson students to “grade” their professors. The SGA is working and will continue to work for student participation
in any Tenure Committee that is established. Although chances to seat voting student representatives on a Tenure Committee appear slim,
the SGA will argue that students are most qualified to evaluate a professor's teaching ability and can make a special
contribution to the work of the Tenure Committee.

And, finally, one more angle to the evaluation story. This one, too, must be the work of the SGA. Course
selection by Davidson students is quite often uneducated guesswork. The student reads the catalogue and finds general descriptions, but no
specific information. Course syllabi filed in the library are a better source, but few have time to sort through them.
The campus grapevine is good for scuttlebutt on how hard this professor grades or how badly that professor lectures, but
sources are often unreliable. When a student selects a course, he needs to know what the professor will try to
accomplish, how many tests and papers and books will be assigned, what the attendance policy is, etc. That sort of
specific information isn’t collected anywhere. Collecting that information into a course evaluation handbook should be an SGA priority in winter
term. Some of the country’s best schools have such books. Davidson doesn’t. Glamorous work it is not; compiling a handbook
demands thorough research of syllabi, and extensive interviewing of faculty and students. But it’s one thing the SGA should do
to serve all its constituents. And they should do it by mid-January, so the information will be available for spring
term course selection. So thereIt is. Evaluation. As we promised, no protest meetings, no walkouts, no raging controversies. Evaluation is
not sensational, but it is essential. If the administration, faculty, and students can work together patiently, you'll see a better
Davidson at year’s end: Young untenured professors will be able to mark their performance against the guidelines of the Code
and know that they will be fairly judged by their peers on a Tenure Committee. Students will refer to a
handbook to make considered course choices, and their opinions on professors and courses will be channeled through the Tenure Committee
and evaluation forms. —Philip Duncan

Opinion

The restive search for more scapegoats
By CHARLES ERWIN — News Editor

It is November, and talk of WDAV has finally begun to subside. Last week’s attempt at protest fell flat on
its face, once again showing that Trustees can bilk Davidson's students without drawing bad publicity to the college. One by
one, students have come to accept the ‘‘irreversible’’ nature of the Trustees’ decision. And some have begun to look for
student scapegoats.

The Student Government Association has privately criticized both the defunct WDAV staff and The Davidsonian for their part in the
affair, and, with characteristic myopia, has declared itself blameless. The Davidsonian has privately disparaged both the SGA and the WDAV
staff, and, as might be expected, the ‘‘exiled’’ WDAV disc jockeys say they aren’t happy with The Davidsonian and the
SGA.

Although understandable in the face of student frustration and disappointment, this desire to “get back at the bully by finding
somebody small enough to pick on” is regrettable. Carrington Thompson and his disc jockeys have been painted as political bumblers
who did more to alienate the Trustees than to convince them students are capable of running a high-power radio station.
Their presentation to the Trustees was poorly planned and needlessly windy, say their detractors, and ransacking the WDAV office did
little but alienate their sympathizers.

Bruce Brown and his senators have been painted as timorous and feckless leaders, afraid to act decisively when it mattered,
prone to overreact when it didn’t. Before the Trustees made their decision, it is being said, the SGA did little
but pass paper-tiger resolutions whose significance they did not themselves understand. After the Trustee decision was made, they held a
campus-wide referendum on a statement so tersely worded that many students who said they were opposed to the Trustee action
abstained from voting. The referendum backfired on the SGA, according to its critics.

Phil Duncan and his reporters have been painted as misguided muckrakers who gave sensational play to the WDAV story just
so they’d have something to write about. They distorted a minor problem into a major issue, say their detractors, thereby
forcing the Trustees to make an unfortunate decision they might not otherwise have had to face. The Davidsonian’s critics on
the SGA say their attempts to build Trustee support for continued student control of WDAV were severely hampered by a
Davidsonian headline which read “SGA slaps Trustees.” Also, the paper’s critics on the WDAV staff have said they felt The
Davidsonian undercut their attempts to protest the Trustee decision by running articles that weren’t entirely sympathetic to their position.

Aside from being counterproductive, many of these charges have been unfair. As a newsman who has covered the WDAV story
ever since the station switched to high power last spring, I am now convinced that Carrington Thompson has done not
only an adequate, but a praiseworthy job in fighting to keep WDAV a student station. After months of hard and
dedicated work, he clearly showed that students were capable of operating WDAV at high power. Had the Trustees been willing
(see Scapegoats, page 5).

Executive Editors
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLING, Ni

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

News Editors
BILL C.
Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH
Graphics Editor
Copy Editor
BILL COWARD
Circulation
KAREN LONG

Department assistants:
News—Don Caldwell, Carole Willingham
Editorial Page—Sheri Merideth Durden
Features Editors
PEEPLES
Photography Editor
GREGG STRADER
DAVE ISENHOWER
Advertising Manager
ADAIR GREEN
Sports Editor
BARRY SACHTJEN
The Back Page Editor
LINDA HOOPES
Special Assignments Editor
ANN SHEAFFER
Production Manager
AMANDA Loptson
Sports—Mike Britt, John
Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson
Production—Donya Boylston, Ralph Lesley, Marielien Sawada
Graphics—Phil Howerton
Circulation—Ricky Watson

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. The newspaper's
office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 216, Davidson, N.C. 28096; telephone: 882-2000, Ext.
148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second-class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

The Davidsonian's Editorial Board—the editor, senior editors, and editorial page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's editorials. While the editorial
reflects an exchange of ideas between all members of the Board, the opinions expressed are those of the author(s) and
do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the Board.
