The Davidsonian
Faculty Guest Column
April 21, 1978

The wholeness of life and things
By Frank Bliss, Professor of English

For a long time, we have thought that we could subdue the earth and that we could live on it but apart from it. Seeking largely to remove ourselves from the natural world and to create sub-systems within which to live, we are threatening ourselves and the environment with destruction. The natural world has amazing powers of self-restoration, but we now know, as we did not know a hundred years ago, that it is not inexhaustible. The innocence that led Gerard Manley Hopkins to claim that “nature is never spent” also led Thomas Jefferson to assert confidently that “such is the economy of nature that no instance can be produced of her having permitted any one of her race of animals to become extinct; of her having formed any link in her great work so weak as to be broken.” Neither Hopkins nor Jefferson was doing any more than repeating what were accepted ideas in their centuries. We know now that all things break. Nature can be “spent;” “races of animals” have become extinct, and they have been exterminated by humans. Now that we know these things, our knowledge invites us to act upon our knowledge. That we may act appropriately is my concern here. The question is one of our freedom and our responsibility, or our individualism and our community.

Believing that, like science, art reveals things to us about the world, I want to quote some modern poems and to share some observations about them. At the center of many of what are to me the most stimulating modern poems is a moral power which can awaken and nourish our awareness of the natural environment and of our relationship to it. What makes this power seem so significant to me is the sense I have that the distance between the natural world and our cultural sub-systems generally is increasing. Here is a modern poem which encourages us to break down the barriers we have erected. The American poet A.R. Ammons was born in Whiteville, North Carolina; “Winter Scene” is found in his volume called *Corsons Inlet* (Ithaca, New York, Cornell University Press, 1965).

There is now not a single leaf on the cherry tree:
except when the jay plummets in, lights,
and, in pure clarity, squalls:
then every branch quivers and breaks out in blue leaves.

The poem begins with the words of a speaker who is an observer looking closely at the cherry tree. The static scene becomes dynamic with the plummeting in of a blue jay which squalls, after which the branches quiver and the entire tree “breaks out in blue leaves.” Everything leads up to the verb with which the last line of the poem begins: “breaks out.” To break out is to erupt, as with a skin rash: the metaphor blurs the artificial distinction between the world of humans and the world of nature by affirming the presence of one living world shared by speaker, blue jay, and tree.

Robert Bly, in a poem from *Silence in the Snowy Fields* (Middletown, Connecticut, Wesleyan University Press, 1962), suggests a similar identification:

Watering the Horse

How strange to think of giving up all ambition!
Suddenly I see with such clear eyes
The white flake of snow
That has just fallen in the horse’s mane!

What does ambition mean? Merely going around and about physically, as it originally meant? Not at all; ambition means fame, wealth, success, advancement. All of these are separations from mere existence. This poem celebrates mere existence and makes it seem pretty important—as it is.

These new ways of looking at trees and blue jays and horses and snowflakes may seem strange; we can learn new ways, but it is hard going. New ways can result in our becoming aroused to see our situation differently, and they may encourage us to act with our new awarenesses. Imagine believing that wars are unacceptable because they are destructive of the natural world! Imagine for every Statue of Liberty a Statue of Responsibility, and imagine broadening responsibility to include all creatures, all things. We would learn to see the natural world not as something to be controlled but as sharing in our experience. We could learn to see ourlives as involved in its lives, and to understand ourselves as moral agents responsible for all life. We can enlarge our respect for persons to include respect for other living creatures, and the development of a successful biological ethics seems to me one of the greatest needs we have today. Perhaps it is the greatest need we have. Intimations of human origins and relationships have been with us for a long time; often they take a form similar to the one expressed in the final lines of Clarice Short’s “The Old One and the Wind” (The Old One and the Wind, Salt Lake City, University of Utah Press, 1973):

To her in her tall house in the tame town, the wind
That escapes the windbreaks of man’s constructing
Blows from a distance beyond the young’s conceiving,
Is rife with excitements of the world’s beginning
And its end.

But other poems claiming similar relationships between the human and the natural worlds are not expressions of homesickness; instead, they express growing awareness, growing responsibility. Such a poem is Robinson Jeffers’ “The Answer" (Selected Poems, New York, Random House, 1951):

A severed hand
Is an ugly thing, and a man dissevered from
The earth and stars and his history...for contemplation or in facts:
Often appears atrociously ugly.
Integrity is wholeness, the greatest beauty is
Organic Wholeness, the wholeness of life and things,
the divine beauty of the universe.
Love that, not man
Apart from that, or else you will share man’s pitiful confusions,
or drown in despair when his days darken.

Jeffers’ lines affirm the commonplace biological truth that the materials and principles that form inorganic matter are those that form organic matter. ‘The wholeness of life and things.’ Awareness of this truth ought to lead us into harmonious existence, out of the conflicts of our present “confusion” into the wholeness of the union of the subjective and the objective, the human and the rest of the natural world. That would be the reversal of our present course: I will quote Neil Clareman's “Ripening of the Apples” (East by Southwest, New York, Simon and Schuster, 1970).

Of the many apple trees — red fruit set tentatively against the blue,
the crop is much sparer than before: an autumn in 1966,
heaving with apples—our home less awkward in the orchard’s wake.
I was thankful for the apples, for the raking of leaves,
once with one car and no TV; each visitor brought some gadget
to help in our first harvest.
This orchard is dying, the city spreading, trucks shifting thru nights
I'd lie watching a fog put the house to sleep.
On the ground each sweet — rotting core’s world is unsure
tho none will spawn trees.

Unless we have a change of heart, I see turning things around as unlikely; and even if we do, the task is almost impossible. Yet we must try. I will quote from the work of two more poets: first an Italian poet, Umberto Saba, whose “La Capra” (The Goat) is dated 1921 (translated by Jonathan Levy in Stanley Burnshaw, The Poem Itself, Penguin Books, 1960).

I have spoken with a goat.
She was alone in the field, she was tethered.
Satiated with grass, soaked with rain, she was bleating,
That even bleating was brother to my grief.
And I answered, first to make fun, then because grief is eternal,
has one voice, and does not vary.
I heard this voice lamenting in a goat left all alone.
In a goat with a semitic face I heard every other ill, every other life,
lamenting.

Second, a Greek poet, Nikos Kazantzakis (The Odyssey: A Modern Sequel, translated by Kimon Friar, in Modern European Poetry, edited by Willis Barnstone, Bantam Books 1966), whose modern Odyssey contains these lines in Book III:

His cool feet ran like flowing streams, his chest flung grass,
and like hushed pools of jet-black water his eyes gleamed
behind the morning-glory blooms that twined his beard.
He turned his head right, and the forest, too, turned right,
he turned his head left, and the forest, too, turned left,
he yelled “I” in his heart, and the whole forest quivered.
For the first time he felt that he lived and had a soul.
Odysseus brimmed with waters, trees, fruit, beasts, and snakes
and all trees, waters, beasts and fruit brimmed with Odysseus.

Imagine such a world!