February 24, 1978 The Davidsonian

In part so that Dr. Warner Hall would be able to complete his second term as Chairman of the Board,
the trustees recently altered their rule that a member reaching age 70 must automatically retire. [David Litaker]

Chairman says college must keep church ties
By CHARLES ERWIN
Features Editor

Once Dr. Warner Hall was on the Davidson Board of Trustees, it did not take him long to rise to
prominence. A few years after his 1954 appointment, Hall was named vice-chairman of the Board under Dr. McDowell Richards. When
Richards retired, he was asked to continue in this position under Dr. Walter Lingle. Twenty-four years later, Hall is halfway
through his second term as chairman.

The soft-spoken and articulate director of the Presbyterian Foundation headquartered in Charlotte makes no bones about his willingness to serve
the college. "I've tried never to refuse any responsibility that the college has asked me to undertake,” he said. “I
have a deep concern for its (the Presbyterian Church's) well-being and for the well-being of the institutions that are connected
with it." Hall is an ordained Presbyterian minister.

“I think I was the first non-alumnus to become chairman. I’m not sure but at least in modern times I
am the first. This hasn't been a handicap—No, No, No, No.” A number of the members of my family have
attended here across the years, including my son. He is a graduate,” emphasized Hall, as if he felt he must
defend his claim to office.

The neatly-dressed silver-haired man then said that he was educated in Europe, first in Berlin and then in Edinburgh. Later
he took a sabbatical leave to Zurich because the people there spoke German, he said. “Zurich was to me a
very fascinating city. There I had an interesting and happy time.” The long years in Europe have had a telling
effect on Hall's speech. The sound of his words is pleasantly unfamiliar, almost quaint. “My own speech has been affected
by the years I spent in Europe and the years I spent in Alabama,” he explained. “I suppose everyone speaks
a little bit of all the places they have been.” He freely mixes pulpit eloquence with Southern idiom, like “peace
and domestic tranquility” with phrases like “my people were educated.”

Hall has had at least one church in Alabama, Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, and North Carolina. He is no longer an
active pastor. His religious ties have had a strong influence on the way he has handled problems at Davidson. “I
think it is in the ultimate interest of the college to maintain a Christian witness.”

Hall was hesitant to talk about his power on the Board. He even denied that he had any power. “I
don't have any power. Nobody here has power. Power is something, I suppose, that dictators have—trustees are only able to
determine policy.” But by any estimation, Hall has been and continues to be a powerful man. Aside from his duties
at the Presbyterian Foundation, Hall...has a long history of political and educational influence. He was the founder of St. Andrews
College in Laurinburg, North Carolina. He chaired the Charlotte Community Relations Committee during the years of racial strife in the
sixties. "I have gotten into great controversy," he admitted. "As we were trying to open opportunities for the Blacks in
this area, I appeared frequently on television and radio."

"This naturally called down the wrath of those who disagreed with my position. I was called everything except a child
of God."

"But this is all a thing of the past now. Last Saturday night, there was a to-do over in Raleigh.
I was awarded the Citizen's Award by the governor for my work," Hall said with pride.

Caring students visit area nursing home weekly
by BILL PEEPLES
Staff Writer

As students at a small college in a small college town, Davidson College residents have limited exposure to a large
variety of age groups, particularly the young and elderly. The YMCA STEP tutor program provides for the former. But how
about contact with folks of grandparent age, many of whom are in care centers or confined to hospital beds?

Steve Justus, '78, came up with a solution last school year when he pioneered a weekly visitation program to the
Huntersville hospital/nursing home complex. The program started small, with a few freshmen on Steve’s hall and some fellow SAE’s helping
out when they could. One of the Huntersville administrators ‘assigned’ various members of the elderly community to the student participants,
so that each student developed, literally, an old friendship.

The program has experienced phenomenal growth since it first began over a year ago. When the circus came to town
fall term, the brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon went down to Huntersville and fetched as many shut-ins as could fit
in the available automobiles. The visitations can be mutually beneficial, as well as a genuine pleasure.

Marshall Brown, '78, calls regularly on Jack Foster. Jack has a special card table fitted to go across his wheelchair,
and he puts it to good use. Marshall reports that he must be very careful not to take any money
to the hospital, for Mr. Foster rivals the best card sharks of Las Vegas.

Of particular interest is the octagenarian Zetta Washam, who can only be referred to as the grand dame of North
Mecklenburg. With a vitality that would put most Davidson students to shame, Mrs. Washam is a talking history book when
it comes to this region. Her tales of Davidson’s early history are rivaled only by Chalmers Davidson, as she relates
her late husband’s days at the North Carolina Medical College, which used to be here.

Jay Flair is currently in charge of the program. Any interested students are welcome to join the weekly group of
visitors behind the SAE house after lunch on Fridays. Many members of that fraternity make the short trip regularly, and
they have recently been joined by the community service group headed by Mary from Rusk House, Dawn Roark, '80.

SMASH! ANOTHER WINDOW was broken this afternoon by an errant softball. Knowing the Physical Plant, it will be a month
before the pane is replaced. Have a good Spring Break!

KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030
