The Davidsonian ..... Tenure
By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

A check on the tenure procedures for five schools other than Davidson reveals that four employ some sort of committee system to research each individual case and that one seems to be moving in that direction.

Williams College has a Committee on Appointments and Promotions to aid in tenure decisions. This committee is comprised of one tenured professor from each department, the provost, the dean of faculty, and the president. The committee acts on recommendations made by individual departments, which base their recommendations on teaching ability, scholarly development, and involvement in the college community. Student involvement in the tenure process lies in questionnaires, interviews, and unsolicited student comments, which all play a part in the departmental decision. Faculty members seeking tenure may appeal the decision of the CAP to the Steering Committee, which is composed of one tenured and one non-tenured member of each department. Final decision lies with the Board of Trustees.

At Vanderbilt, each different school has a certain amount of liberty in deciding individual details, but a general procedure is followed. After gathering information on the individual’s record at Vanderbilt and his involvement in service groups and committees, the tenured members of the faculty vote on whether or not to grant tenure. After this vote, it goes through various stages until finally the trustees vote. Student input into the process includes course evaluations in each department at the ends of terms and the annual SGA review of courses. Mr. Glen Clanton sums it up as “pretty much a ritualistic type thing unless there are real differences between each school.”

At the University of the South, Dr. Webb says that in the tenure process at Sewanee the opinion of students enrolled at the time of evaluation is not used; however, questionnaires are sent to alumni four years after graduation. For other evaluation sources, they follow AAU guidelines. All the collated information is voted on by a committee of tenured faculty members whose decision is verified by the Board of Regents.

Dean Warren of Southwestern felt it would not be appropriate to comment on tenure procedures as “We are in the midst of a study on that subject now.” However, he indicated that they wished to have more participation by faculty and more student input in arriving at decisions on tenure.

Haverford’s “Academic Council” consists of three administrators (the President, the Provost, and the Dean of the College) and five faculty members who are already tenured. Each faculty member coming up for tenure has a “recommender” who gathers information on the professor to present to the council. Opinion regarding the tenure process is varied, with Vice President for Academic Affairs Patterson outlining the evaluation criteria as competence, teaching ability, and community involvement. Faculty members seeking tenure may appeal the decision of the Academic Council to the Steering Committee, which is composed of one tenured and one non-tenured member of each department. Final decision lies with the Board of Trustees.

By W. BROWN PATTERSON
Professor of History

Faculty tenure is a privilege enjoyed by a large proportion of the academic profession in the United States. Its essential feature is that a faculty member at an institution of higher learning, after a period of probation, is granted a continuing appointment. Except under exceptional circumstances, that appointment cannot be terminated until retirement. Though the authoritative definition of tenure is the 1940 statement by the Association of American Colleges and the American Association of University Professors, the principle is embedded in the privileges enjoyed by the teaching members of the earliest universities in Europe. Popes, kings, and other authorities in the High Middle Ages thought it important to protect university faculties from pressures which might distract them from their work. The members of academic corporations were therefore given special legal rights, which are still alluded to in college diplomas, where the graduate is declared entitled to all the “privileges and immunities” of his or her new status. According to the 1940 statement, faculty members who have been employed full-time for a period of seven years at a single institution enjoy tenure and may not be dismissed except for cause.deprived of it except under due process. This means in practice that an institution may not terminate the appointment of a tenured faculty member unless it can show that he or she is incompetent, is guilty of grave moral offenses, or that the institution is in such financial straits that further employment is impracticable. Even then, strict procedures, designed to protect the faculty member from sudden or arbitrary dismissal, have to be followed. Before the elapse of the probationary period of seven years, however, an institution may decide, for a variety of reasons, not to renew a faculty member’s appointment. The 1940 statement has been endorsed by over eighty professional organizations and its principles are followed by the great majority of colleges and universities in the United States. The Commission on Academic Tenure in Higher Education reported in 1973 that “an estimated 94 percent of faculty members in American universities and colleges are serving in institutions that confer tenure.” The Davidson College Constitution specifically endorses the principles and procedures of the 1940 statement.

Despite the well-established position of tenure in the American academic system, the principles of tenure have been rigorously attacked in the last fifteen years. Those who attack tenure often point out that it operates to the disadvantage of younger faculty members who find it difficult to secure continuing employment in an institution already top-heavy with tenured faculty. It is also pointed out that many tenured faculty members are thereby guaranteed employment even when they have lost much of their effectiveness or even their interest in teaching and scholarship. Having a large proportion of the faculty tenured may also make it difficult or impossible to introduce new programs or departments. Finally, allowing an institution only seven years in which to decide whether to grant a permanent appointment may work to the disadvantage of a faculty member whose skills are developing slowly but steadily.

Personally, I consider these criticisms far from decisive. The lack of opportunity for younger scholars is largely the result of population changes and the recent pattern of expansion and then stabilization in higher education. Colleges and universities are staffed to a considerable extent by those who received their Ph.D.s in the ’50s and ’60s in a period of educational expansion. Now that that period of expansion has ended, there are relatively few openings for younger men and women. This would be the situation whether a system of tenure existed or not. That there is “deadwood” in most faculties is unfortunately true, and there is also validity to the argument that new programs are difficult to establish because of the entrenched character of already existing programs and departments. I would also grant that seven years is all too short a time to make a decision about anyone's potential effectiveness over a career of several decades.

Tenure seems to me nevertheless an essential feature of higher education. Teachers and scholars who are engaged in the important work of wrestling with the fundamental issues of human knowledge and of introducing students to the areas of their expertise should not be subject to pressures from administrators, politicians, or church officials, who may wish to impose upon them conditions of intellectual conformity. Without this academic freedom, institutions of higher education, to which the nation looks for solutions to many of our most pressing problems, would lose much of their vitality. Tenure is not the only way of guaranteeing academic freedom, but, historically, it has proved to be the most important one.

There have also been criticisms of the tenure system at Davidson. Some of these criticisms are justified. In its report in 1973, the national Commission on Academic Tenure commented: “In some institutions personnel policies are communicated clearly and authoritatively to the faculty; in others there is widespread ignorance, confusion, or difference in interpretation, not only among the younger faculty but often among faculty and administrators responsible for personnel actions.” At the present time, Davidson College seems to be in the second category. Though the administration and the Faculty Professional Affairs Committee have been charged with the responsibility of drawing up a statement of procedures and standards for the awarding of tenure, no such document has as yet appeared.

I have two deep-seated convictions about this subject. One is that professional competence should be the overriding consideration in the awarding of tenure. Traditionally, at Davidson, contributing to the community and the college, measured by church and civic activities and by the shouldering of committee responsibilities, have counted significantly in