Philip Dinah, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager

Number Eight | October 27, 1978

Instead, a guiding hand in an editorial of October 23, (see below) The Charlotte Observer rebukes Davidson students who “seem
to have forgotten their contributors—and their broader audience’s wishes; many more people than Davidson's 1,300 students or board of trustees
are affected.” The writers of the editorial, furthermore, state that they are more concerned about the listeners than about who
controls programming. The writers of the editorial do not recognize that the Trustees’ decision on WDAV ignores the promise made
to Davidson students by the College’s Statement of Purpose. According to that Statement, “Davidson’s primary purpose is to develop persons
of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and
of self-fulfillment.” Note that the Statement does not refer to a purpose or one of the purposes, but the primary
purpose. Any decision—whether it’s made by Trustees, the administration, faculty, or students—should be answerable to that ultimatum of the Statement
of Purpose. The Trustees have not helped to develop “humane instincts” and “creative minds” by wresting away from students their
management responsibilities at WDAV. Creative minds are developed by giving the students some responsibility. Occasionally, the students will make mistakes,
such as mispronouncing a few words or playing a few more jazz records than classical albums. But when mistakes are
made, should not the Trustees be willing to lend a guiding hand instead of a hand that slams students down?
Surely, that must be what education is all about. The amount of classical music that should be played is certainly
debatable, and it is regrettable that neither the students nor Trustees could compromise. Some of the students’ actions, shuffling record
albums into the wrong jackets, removing the control board, etc., are even more regrettable. However, do not fault students for
demanding an education that goes beyond books, for demanding the opportunity to learn by managing radio station WDAV. A college
should serve some of the needs of the community. But now that students have lost management responsibilities at the radio
station, the “new” WDAV will serve the community not through the students, but at their expense.

—Philip Duncan and Harry Greyard

The Observer speaks

The following editorial is reprinted from the October 23 edition of ‘The Charlotte Observer.’

Radio WDAV is silent, but the Davidson College campus 20 miles north of Charlotte, where the 18,500-watt station operates, is
buzzing. At issue: Who will control what listeners hear in the 80-mile radius in which the FM station broadcasts? Should
student volunteers who operate the station 18 hours a day have their way in making the station a diversified mix
of classical, jazz, folk, and rock music? Or are the college trustees, who want a predominantly classical station, right in
demanding control because they hold the license and trustees told students the school would control the station. They said it
will broadcast primarily classical music to fill a need trustees see for that kind of programming in the Mecklenburg area.
Dismayed student broadcasters then removed the station’s key control panel and other student-bought stereo equipment, and the 60 students who
ran the station quit. A referendum Wednesday will ask students to vote yes or no to a loaded question whether
the trustees’ actions have been “educationally harmful, financially unjustified and ethically irresponsible.” Meanwhile, school officials, hoping to be back on
the air Nov. 20, have ordered nearly $90,000 worth of station equipment. Martha Roberts, the college communications director, hopes to
employ a professional manager for WDAV before the Nov. 20 date.She’s been talking with Opinion

Bury the axe, but not the issue
By SIDNEY R. MARERTT
Guest Columnist

Now the shouting is over, and WDAV has emerged as College property after ten years of student operation. Now the
agents of reconciliation, with the best of intentions, are writing the eulogy of the affair; they tell us of communication
breakdown, of misinterpretations on both sides. Reconcile? End the bitterness and resentment? Yes, and as quickly as possible. Carrington and
I both wish the best of luck to anyone who would like to join the new station, in whatever capacity.
But gloss over the events of the past two years, as if it were some unfortunate accident? No, because it
was no accident. And my liberal-arts instruction would be an expensive failure if I now did not have the courage
to speak out on what I've seen.

Put yourself in our place. You’ve personally authored no less than four detailed programming proposals and sent them directly to
the President, only to hear him remark to another official that he was never quite sure what the students wanted.
When the Trustees convened to authorize the high-power proposal in Feb. 1977, you ask to attend and are told that
your presence would be “inappropriate.” After the meeting, Administration officials assure you (in writing and on tape) that WDAV will
stay like it is, that no radical changes are coming, that it is a “legitimate student activity.” And after two
years of seeking meetings, dialogue, clarifications, and confirmation, you find for the first time (July 1978) that Dr. Spencer had
a primarily classical station, a phrase they had never once used with you. An Administration official gives you a copy
of the WDAV Statement of Policy and Purpose which you helped write in 1977. Except that now someone has altered
the original wording to say “with primary emphasis on classical music.” No one seems to know who did it.

You watch the Chairman of your college’s Board of Trustees, with the head of the Communications department, tell the Executive
Board that WDAV may not receive its license and that we are soon to be publicly investigated by the FCC
because a student played one crude song that prompted a letter of complaint. They neglect to tell the Board that
the DJ was a freshman with three weeks experience, and that he was taken off the air within an hour
of the violation. They also fail to mention that thousands of written complaints cross the FCC desk every day, that
they investigate only consistent complaints over long periods of time, and that in fact WDAV already has its license.

You watch that same Administration official on television telling Charlotte that you resigned because you did not want to play
more classical music, after you and your staff have struggled to raise the amount of classical played from 20 to
38 hours per week, six of which you play yourself. Perhaps C. Shaw Smith was right when he said that
they promised us input because they thought they could talk us into doing what they wanted to do. Well, for
two years we asked the Administration what they wanted. For two years, they could have given us a clear answer,
but they didn’t. They waited until last Monday.

I’m sorry, but I don’t believe there was any lack of communication. There was a lack of interest in communicating
on the part of certain parties. It wasn’t the students.

News Editors
MERIDEN Dupe Bana curse
GREGG STRADAN
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD
