The Davidsonian — September 22, 1978

Letter to the Editor

Former DC student advises critical look

To the Editor:

Nine months have passed since I decided to leave Davidson College. Few of you will make that decision, yet each
of you may benefit from making a conscious, deliberate decision to stay at Davidson. It follows that such a process
would require a few hours, maybe a few days of reflection, introspection, and questioning. You might find this process painful;
idealistic views tend to tarnish under scrutiny. Yet the end result might prove an affirmation of your decision to attend,
teach, or work at Davidson or possibly provide you with a more realistic appraisal of the community.

Below is an excerpt from my transfer application. Last year, while I was a member of the Davidson College Community,
I spent many hours looking at the community, exploring the community. My inquiry led to this summary:

“Davidson is a regional, liberal arts college that has strong ties to the Presbyterian Church and to the South. Adjectives
that come to mind include conservative, academic, paternal, structured, and homogeneous.

“My dissatisfaction lies with the fundamental attitudes of the college. I have a strong conviction that my participation in any
institution should be dynamic -- I want to challenge and to be challenged. I will not close my eyes to
events or attitudes that I find objectionable; I will not silently watch people treated unjustly: I strive to work within
the guidelines to affect a change; I channel a great deal of energy into my activities. Unless I am actively
seeking a change in these situations (and I have hopes of succeeding), I feel that my participation in any institution
should signify my acceptance of the major philosophies and actions of that institution.

“My dealings with Davidson have convinced me that the undercurrent philosophy of the college is static by nature. I feel
stymied here. The Academic Vice President has publicly stated that students who do not agree with the school's policies and
the current interpretations should consider leaving since many students who wanted to come to Davidson, and who were willing to
come under the current situation, were turned down. The tokenism in the acceptance of students and in the hiring of
faculty members ensures a homogeneous college community.

“A more tangible dissatisfaction I have deals with the lack of academic and personal opportunities for varied college experiences. Double
majors are not allowed, even if the proper credits are earned.

“The school recently became a coed institution. Many faculty members still object to women on campus. A prevalent attitude is
that Davidson is a ‘men's and girls’ school’ -- an attitude that I find harmful as well as objectionable. A
conservative air weighs heavily upon the Davidson College Community.

“Academically, I have been successful at Davidson and I am fully capable of doing so in the future. My decision
to leave Davidson grew out of a careful consideration of what I can hope to gain at Davidson versus what
I could possibly find at a different institution.

“I have come to know better what I want academically and personally from my college experience. I decided to leave
Davidson when I came to the realization that I would not be able to fulfill many of my goals or
experience many things of value if I remained. Thus, I am not willing to remain at Davidson after this academic
year.”

-- excerpt from my application to Wesleyan University, February 18, 1978

This letter finalizes a process that began nine months ago; it represents a final break with the Davidson College Community
proper. As to my motivations, this letter illustrates a viewpoint that hopefully will present a challenge -- not a challenge
to seek justification, rather a challenge to quest for a personal understanding of your commitment to any institution or community,
particularly the one we shared.

--- Kenneth F. Wood ’81, Wesleyan University

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Sundays
692-0208

By CHUCK GADDY
PIRG Columnist

In the coming weeks, the U.S. Senate and then the House will be considering the component of President Carter's proposed
energy program which deals with natural gas deregulation. In contradiction to a repeatedly affirmed position during his Presidential campaign, Carter
has since yielded to the oil industry’s appeal for removing the federal ceiling on the price of natural gas sold
interstate. The anti-consumer consequences of such legislation would be devastating.

If enacted, this bill will unnecessarily cost consumers tens of billions of dollars. A study by the non-partisan Congressional Budget
Office confirmed that as early as 1982 the price could be $4.00 per thousand cubic feet (M.C.F.), a 174 percent
increase from the present cost of $1.46.M.C.F. The Consumer Federation of America issued an estimate last month revealing that decontrolled
gas would reach an average level by 1985 of at least 353 percent of its present cost, 618 percent of
what it was in 1975, and 1,608 percent of what it was in 1970. Higher prices have been euphemistically justified
by their proponents as incentives for increased production, a conversion to other energy sources, and conservation in consumption. Experience since
1970, however, demonstrates that even 100 percent price increases have failed to yield greater output. Apparently, gas producers, with monopolistic
command over their markets, have preferred augmenting their profits by restricting supply. In Texas, a state exempt from federal price
limits and thus the best indication of what the whole nation can anticipate, the cost of natural gas has jumped
600 percent since 1973.

Explaining his role in relation to WDAV, Spencer continued: “I have to go by the Trustees’ policy statement and if
that’s in conflict, the Constitution ought to be brought into consonance.” The message seems clear. When the College’s highest governors
establish policy, the procedures, rights, and responsibilities ensconced in the constitution are vulnerable to malicious neglect and arbitrary manipulation. If
you do not believe that such rights and privileges are important, no big deal. But if you assume witness, yet
total production for the Texas market has declined in the same period almost 20 percent.

If the government's objective is indeed to promote more plentiful forms of energy, a more effective approach would be to
directly assist the development of alternative energy technology. The fact that more than 89 percent of the electricity in Texas
was still generated by natural gas last year does not help the argument that higher prices would encourage conversion. Practically
and economically speaking, conservation is not a viable option. The ability of residential users of natural gas to significantly reduce
their consumption is very minimal. An attempt to restrict energy usage by industry would impede optimal capacity and contribute to
the rate of unemployment. It is painfully clear that the most vulnerable members of society, low-income consumers (particularly senior citizens),
will be the most cruelly affected by gas deregulation. Proportionally, the lowest ten percent on the economic ladder spends ten
times more of its income on home energy consumption than does the top ten percent. This is in part due
to the poor condition of the housing they occupy. Declining block utility rate structures that charge low-volume users at a
higher unit rate than high-volume users are also responsible for the disproportionate burden of natural gas price increases.

The emotional price to senior citizens and low-income consumers is particularly high. In November 1977, a University of Michigan study
predicted that last winter one out of five senior citizens would have to face the choice of either paying their
utility bill or eating. These people are often victims of utility shut-offs, going for months without heat and becoming ill
as a result—and in some cases freezing to death. The increase in the price of natural gas as a result
of deregulation would have other consequences:

—Higher unemployment as increased spending on energy reduces aggregate demand for other goods and services.
—Higher numbers of senior citizens forced to enter nursing homes or become wards of the state because they are no
longer able to make ends meet on their meager fixed incomes (as a recent Michigan study confirms).
—Increased health-care costs due to poorer diets and colder living conditions.
—Increased inflation in all production sectors (not just energy); virtually all production, including agriculture, is energy intensive.
—Increased economic and political power for the already extremely powerful major oil and gas firms. Despite incomes they consider too
meager for energy production, they have spent hundreds of millions of dollars advancing their positions on issues ranging from environmental
policy to corporate tax rates. Further, the major oil companies will continue to use their enormous cash surpluses to purchase
major non-energy firms such as Mobil’s purchase of Montgomery Ward.
—Worsening of the balance of trade. The price increase in domestically manufactured commodities would make them less attractive to the
rest of the world and thus reduce U.S. exports.

On the Senate floor, an attempt has been pledged to delete the sections of the committee bill which would decontrol
natural gas prices. The public is being told that these Senators are ruining any chance of creating a national energy
program. In truth, the Senators who are not willing to settle for the “anything is better than nothing” mentality are
owed a debt of gratitude by the public. It is clear that the “moral equivalent of war” President Carter solicited
of the American public against the energy crisis should, in fact, be waged against the President's own proposals.
