December 8, 1978

SENIOR FORWARD Carter Todd glides past a Wofford defender to lay in another bucket. The Cats downed the Terriers 110-74 in Saturday's contest. (Gregg Strader)

Dulany grabs first place
Grapplers place 3 in Catawba tourney
By DAVID PIPER
Staff Writer

Individual performance highlighted the Davidson wrestling team’s opening match in the Catawba Invitational Tournament last Saturday in Salisbury. Although no team scores were compiled in the eight-school competition, the Wildcats said they were pleased with their efforts.

Senior Captain Pat Dulany led the team by capturing first place in the 142-pound weight class. He won three matches in one day, the last by virtue of a one-point award. He was awarded one point for having two seconds over the one-minute riding time requirement. Senior Scott Phillips commented, “It was the best Pat’s wrestled since his freshman year.”

Phillips' own performance was no less noteworthy. He wrestled five matches in one afternoon and came away with the third-place trophy in the 177-pound weight class. After an initial defeat to a wrestler from Livingston, Phillips won four straight matches, including a repeat match against Livingston. Phillips also registered the quickest pin of the day, fifty-one seconds.

In his first collegiate match, Wildcat freshman Scott Smith won the fourth-place trophy in the 134-pound class. He was the only other Davidson wrestler to finish in the money. Coach L.R. King indicated he was generally pleased with the team’s performance and said he thought the squad would do better later in the season.

Looking ahead to tonight’s meeting with Catawba in Johnston Gym at 7:00, King predicted a competitive match, while noting that Catawba placed three wrestlers in the finals last Saturday. Dulany admitted the Cats are at a considerable disadvantage but thinks the match could produce some pleasant surprises. On Saturday, the team faces a sterner test when they host a four-team competition beginning at 1:00 in Johnston Gym.

Swimmers crush Pfeiffer
By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson College swimming team opened its season Tuesday with a 75-28 trouncing of Pfeiffer College. Wildcat Coach Pat Miller was obviously pleased with the Davidson effort. She said, “This was only a tune-up for our big meet with UNC-Wilmington. The team's performance was commendable considering that no one swam in their specialty events.”

Mark Tommerdahl was a double winner in the meet. Tommerdahl took first place in the 200-yard individual medley and the 200-yard backstroke. Pete Neefus was a double winner also with victories in both diving events. Other Wildcat winners included Steve Yood, 1,000-yard freestyle; Craig Allen, 600-yard freestyle; Paul Voight, 200-yard freestyle; and Craig Finger in the 200-yard breaststroke. In addition, Davidson won the medley and freestyle relays. The final score could have been more lopsided had the Wildcat swimmers participated in their primary events. Instead, Miller preferred to let the team stay loose prior to the confrontation with UNC-Wilmington.

Gerdy stars
Cats surge destroys Brown
By DAVID VAUGHAN
Staff Writer

The Wildcats overcame a dismal first half Monday night to pummel the Brown Bruins 75-58 at the Charlotte Coliseum. Down by three at the half, the Cats went on a 17-point tear during the opening minutes of the second half to break open a tight game.

The blowout of the second half appeared as if it would occur in the first half as Davidson jumped to a 10-4 lead behind the brilliant play of Pat Hickert. Enter Chuck Mack and Peter Moss for Brown. With the score 12-8, the two combined for 18 of the Bruins’ next 21 points, giving them a 31-28 lead at the half.

In an effort to neutralize Brown's slowdown offense and spur offensive movement by his own team, Biedenbach decided to go with the full-court trap that had earlier ruined the Bruins.UNC Wilmington at UNCC’s pool Saturday. Saturday’s match is expected to be a stiffer challenge for Davidson. A victory would justify the Wildcats’ early season optimism.

GRAND OPENING Dec. 7-8-9
Flower Cart Florist
Main Street
Davidson, N.C.
ORDER CHRISTMAS FLOWERS NOW!
CHRISTMAS POINSETTIAS AND ARRANGEMENTS

Connecticut in the C.I.T. It proved to be the perfect answer to the Cats’ problems as it shifted Brown out of their patient offense. The difference is best shown in the shooting percentages of the two halves. In the first half, with their slowdown offense, Brown shot 66 percent; while in the second half, flustered by Davidson’s press, the Bruins dropped to a paltry 32 percent. The quicker tempo of the game enabled Davidson's shooting percentage to jump from 52 percent in the first half to an unbelievable 75 percent in the second half.

The second half opened with Jamie Hall controlling the tap, and from there, Golden Arm Gerdy took control. Hitting from everywhere, the Gerd used his patented accu-bombs to destroy the Bruins. But surprisingly, perhaps his best play was not a shot but a pass. An inside feed by John led to a crushing dunk by Hall, and for the first time since the middle of the first half, the Cats led. When Gerdy finished his act, in stepped Todd Haynes. Not to be outdone, the flashy sophomore buried the already dead Bruins by scoring nine points in a four-minute spree. All that was left from that point was a spinning double-pump move by Carter Todd that brought the crowd to its feet.

For the game, Davidson shot an amazing 63 percent, as Gerdy led the way with a 12-17 night. His efforts netted him a game-high 28 points and kept his season’s shooting percentage around the 70 percent mark. Following Gerdy was Haynes with 18 and Hickert and Hall with eight. Besides scoring eight, Hall made an important defensive contribution in helping to hold Andy Dolan to two points. Dolan was the major contributor in Brown’s win over Davidson last year. Also contributing defensively were Ernie Reigel and Rich Perky who both chipped in with two points.

In Saturday night’s game, Davidson used a superior inside attack to dominate a hapless Wofford team, 110-74. Haynes led the Cats’ attack with 26 while Gerdy followed with 25. The two games leave the Wildcats with a 4-0 mark with 8th ranked N.C. State scheduled.

The squads from Davidson, UVI, Elon, and The Citadel will each be pitted against one of the other three squads in succession. Dulany cautioned that the team’s lack of depth will be a cause most of the other teams have two or three wrestlers at each position. The depth problem was exacerbated this week, however, when it was learned that junior heavyweight Rob King will be out for the season with a knee injury. Last year King posted the best individual record on Davidson's team. The team hopes another one of last year’s top wrestlers, sophomore Pat McKinsey, will be healthy enough to return to the mat this week. The Cats did add a team member, however, sophomore Dave Nichols. He is slated to begin competition immediately in the 190-pound weight class.

CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
CHILDREN BY PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING SERVICES:
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

(Continued from page 9)
One of the advantages of shopping at this market is that the majority of the vendors are willing to haggle over prices. One man bought a pair of brass candlesticks for forty dollars, whereas the original price had been ninety. By far the most impressive article was an ancient gas pump in mint condition, the kind with the glass bubble at the top for holding ten gallons of gasoline. A sign on it read: “Use for water cooler, aquarium, or beer dispenser.” The owner wanted $760 for it.

VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS