September 15, 1978
The Davidsonian

Director of WDAV Don Lovell
By CAROL LOPTSON - Asst. Focus Editor

Editor's note: The following interview between WDAV Director Don Lovell and Carol Loptson took place on September 13.

"Could you explain your job?"
- The title Executive Director is, as I see it, a liaison between the station manager and the Administration.

"Was the radio station conceived of as a student station that evolved?"
- Always students have been invited to participate, but it has not been a student station. It is the College’s
station.

Lovell defines WDAV as an ongoing thing and the College sets what courses you'll take and all that sort of
thing. It’s an ongoing continuum and you see, the station will be here long after this group, that group, the
next group goes. Nobody is permanent, in the sense that we all die if nothing else. It’s that sense of
in perpetuum, that it goes on. And, as a public image, just as we send out catalogues to prospective students,
that whole business, we need people who stay here.

"The Administration?"
- Right.

WDAV timeline: yesterday and today

With Earl Lawrimore, then Director of WDAV, the interviewer asks, "So essentially what the College would like to have is
WDAV as it is now, with increased power and increased quality of programming?"
Lawrimore answers, "Yes, I think that about sums it up. We're not talking about any radical changes at all."

April 1977
The Board of Directors unanimously passes a Statement of Policy and Purpose, which states that the station shall broadcast "a
variety of programs in keeping with the standards of good taste and a college’s duty to raise the cultural level
of its community."

May 1977
The deadline for applying for HEW funds forces the College to prepare its application for high power immediately, including a
proposed programming schedule. Martha Roberts, head of the Communications Department, and Duane Dittman, Vice-President for Development, are authorized to draw
up the plans. Roberts asks Barrett and the WDAV staff to design the projected programming schedule of the new station.
This new schedule calls for an increase of 2 hours to 6 hours per day of classical music.

Summer 1977
Don Lovell named as Executive Director of WDAV, becoming the first paid employee hired by the College to work primarily
with WDAV.

September 1977
The WDAV staff receives a copy of the HEW proposals and finds the schedule had been changed to include 10
hours per day of classical music.

October 1977
On their own initiative, the WDAV staff changes their operating schedule, increasing the broadcast of classical music from 4 to
6 hours a day.

October 27, 1977
The Trustees approve the application for an FM license, restricting WDAV to 10 watts. The minutes of the meeting, which
were not released to the WDAV staff, state condition 3: "That since by its nature a broadcast station operated for
the College will have an impact on the institution’s public relations function, it is necessary that the station and its
programming be closely and continuously supervised by the College administration."

November 1977
Spencer, in a letter to Barrett, encloses an official copy of the Statement of Policy and Purpose.

"What do you think is adequate communication and consistent effort to make known to students that it is a college
station?"
- I think it has been more so since we began to talk about high power. I think that’s where,
for all of us, the realization is.Not the pressure became more apparent. That’s why the pressure to do this now
(change to 50 percent classical programming). I really don’t think it’s weaseling at all. If there is difficulty, and this
is my personal opinion—I’m labeling again—it is that the College probably did not make the idea of the college station
consistently known enough during the 10-watt phase. What is the possibility at this point of establishing another station as a
student station? Especially if adequate student interest and support for the high-power station does not continue?

Dr. Spencer in July gave several options. One, shutting the station down. Or paying people. Or hiring people outside the
College. Or, indeed, the possibility you mentioned, of having two stations, a student and a College station. The thing I
think that all implies is he emphasizes the Board's authority to set policies and guidelines for the operation and programming
of the station.

April 6, 1978: The Board of Directors unanimously endorses the station’s proposed May 1 schedule to Dr. Spencer, pointing out
that 50 percent of all music in the program schedule is classical. (Not 50 percent of total airtime.)

May 1, 1978: Regular programming begins.

May 23, 1978: In a memo to the WDAV staff, Roberts again emphasizes the Board’s authority, saying that “at Dr.
Spencer’s instructions, and according to the WDAV Constitution, policy and executive decisions are made by the Board of Directors.” She
also notes that “it is the feeling of the Board...that we have a strong and appealing idea—a balance of programming
to meet a balance of tastes and purposes.”

July 24, 1978: President Peaking, overriding the Board, states that 50 percent of WDAV’s total airtime must be classical—a total
of 9½ hours per day. I think we are just beginning to realize that this is big business. The station
is a business. After all, it needs funds to operate and for it to clear up the mess. Opinions differ
on what is to be done with the WDAV mess. According to past chairman of the Media Board Greg Hankins,
“the Media Board as stated in the constitution does have jurisdiction over WDAV.” Yet presently, there is no active Media
Board. For at the end of last year, the Media Board was unable to exercise effective oversight of WDAV since
the Board was established in 1977. Then, communication problems surrounding the initial move to high power stirred controversy between student
staffers and administration.

At that time, the Media Board was simply not organized enough to deal with the controversy. In addition, the Trustees,
WDAV staff, and all involved with the station had grown involved in the move to high power. Then he hoped
the Media Board could come in and oversee the station. Now in regard to “the WDAV mess,” says Hankins, “The
Media Board's jurisdiction is not clear.” In this instance with WDAV, the WDAV Board and the administration seem to have
the final say, instead of the Media Board, as suggested in the constitution.

“I think the Media Board doesn't necessarily have the responsibility but has the role of mediator between students and the
administration,” said Jackson. “As it stands now, WDAV has not officially come to the SGA and asked us to speak
on their behalf to the administration.”
