February 3, 1978 — Times

Opinion By BOB MORRISON Guest Columnist

Senior Bob Morrison has lived in Panama for nine years. This is the first in a series about the negotiations concerning the Panama Canal Treaty.

On September 7, 1977, President Carter and Panamanian Chief of Government Omar Torrijos signed two new Panama Canal treaties which would go into effect after ratification by both countries. The agreement on the Canal would provide a new basis for cooperation between the United States and Panama in the operation and defense of the Panama Canal. This agreement would replace the U.S.-Panama Treaty of 1903, which has governed Canal operations since the waterway's construction, and subsequent amendments.

Under the canal treaty, the United States would have operating control and the right to defend the Canal until December 31, 1999, after which Panama would assume control. If the treaty goes into effect, Panama would assume general territorial jurisdiction over the present Canal Zone, use portions of the area not needed for operation and defense of the Canal, and receive an estimated $50 to $70 million per year from Canal toll revenues. In addition, the United States has pledged $325 million in economic and military grants to Panama. Under a separate neutrality treaty, the United States would have the right to assure the neutrality of the Canal from any threat for an indefinite period.

That is a very brief summary of the new treaties. Allow me to provide the historical background surrounding the Canal.

The United States sought, at the turn of the century, to obtain the exclusive right to construct a canal across the isthmus of Panama. By affording a short-cut route between the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, such a canal was viewed as a strategic and commercial asset of great importance, particularly after the U.S. extended from shore to shore, and was beginning to emerge as a rising world power.

While the isthmus was still a part of Colombia, the United States concluded the Hay-Herran Treaty with Colombia in January 1903. The treaty granted the United States a 100-year lease, renewable at the sole option of the United States, on a zone of land 10 kilometers wide, for an initial payment of $10 million and an annuity of $250,000, wherein the United States was given the exclusive right to construct, maintain, operate, and protect a canal across the isthmus. After debate, the Colombian Senate unanimously rejected the treaty, arguing that it posed a threat to Colombian sovereignty while offering inadequate compensation.

Shortly thereafter the Panamanians, many of whom had sought separation from Colombia, proclaimed their independence on November 3, 1903, with American support. United States naval forces were on hand to prevent the landing of Colombian troops to put down the rebellion, and within three days the United States recognized the new Republic of Panama. Less than two weeks later, American and Panamanian representatives, Secretary of State Hay for the United States; Bunau-Varilla, the French chief engineer of the French Canal Company, for Panama, signed the Hay-Bunau-Varilla Treaty of November 18, 1903, based substantially on the treaty previously rejected by Colombia.

The 1903 treaty with Panama granted to the United States: "in perpetuity" the "use, occupation and control" of a ten-mile wide zone of land across the isthmus for the construction, operation, and defense of a ship canal (Art. II). And, "all the rights, power and authority within the zone...which the United States would possess and exercise if it were the sovereign of the territory...to the entire exclusion of the exercise by the Republic of Panama of any such sovereign rights power of authority" (Art. III). In return, Panama was provided an initial compensation of $10 million and a yearly annuity of $250,000 (which has subsequently increased to $2.3 million) after the completion of the canal.

Despite some revisions in 1936 and 1955, the 1903 treaty has been and remains a source of friction and conflict between the United States and Panama. The seriousness of the situation led the United States and Panama in 1964 to agree to begin negotiations on a new treaty, following the anti-American riots which took place in Panama leaving four Americans and 19 Panamanians dead. These negotiations resulted in draft treaties that were not acted upon by either country.

In August 1970, the government of General Omar Torrijos, in power as a result of a military coup in October 1968, formally rejected the draft treaties, while indicating a willingness to pursue negotiations increasingly came to be presented abroad as a test case of U.S. policy toward Latin America and the Third World, especially after Panama took its case to the U.N. Security Council in 1973. The present series began in 1973 with the appointment of Ambassador Bunker as Chief Negotiator, preparing the way for former Secretary of State Kissinger’s visit to Panama in February 1974 to sign a statement of agreed principles. President Carter continued the negotiations, appointing Ambassador Sol Linowitz to serve as co-negotiator with Ambassador Bunker. Agreement in principle on two new treaties was announced on August 10 and the treaties were signed on September 7 in Washington.

Since the signing of these new treaties there has been a flurry of activity across our nation as proponents and opponents gather forces for the impending battle over ratification in the Senate this month. The White House, in conjunction with the State Department, has intensified its effort to brief the American public, particularly...Certainly! Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Larly local politicians and key business executives. Proponents for the treaty were given their opportunity to testify before the Committee on Foreign Relations, once in October and again this past January. United States negotiations have made continual efforts to clarify the language and implications of the treaties. Two key Senate leaders, Byrd and Baker, traveled to Panama the first of this year to assess the situation firsthand. Senate majority leader Byrd has already expressed his support of the treaties, while minority leader Baker consented to support them if two amendments were made to the present treaties. These are a neutrality clause to the Panama Canal Treaty itself; and the attachment of a “front of the line” clause for priority of passage for American warships in an emergency situation.

On the other side of the issue, opponents have continued to assault the treaties since their signing by President Carter by running ads in papers, mailing out letters, and last month, sending a “Truth Squad,” headed by Senators Helms and Thurmond, to traverse the country presenting another perspective on these treaties. In addition, Senator Allen is prepared to flood the Senate with amendments, particularly involving the legality of the present treaty and negotiations. Now the treaties are only weeks away from possible ratification, and new events are surfacing constantly. Last Friday the Senate Foreign Relations Committee recommended adoption of a new article for the treaty (this article being essentially Baker's second proposed amendment). However, Monday the committee scrapped their previous recommendation because it would require another plebiscite vote in Panama. The current recommendation from the committee is to insert this material into two existing articles pertaining to the neutrality of the canal.

Another surprise came from Panama this past week. Panamanian Chief of Government Omar Torrijos pledged to step down from power and turn his country over to civilian authority. This transition could be made as early as August, when the present Panamanian constitution expires. This statement from Torrijos and the Foreign Relations Committee’s recommendation will stir up additional debate in the Senate. Senator Byrd believes the treaty will be up for debate next week.

I would like to present a brief, and obviously not exhaustive, history of the negotiations which have led to the present treaties. In future issues of The Davidsonian, I will be commenting more specifically on the negotiations and the treaties themselves.

“Colleges have their indispensable office—to teach elements. But they can only highly serve us when they aim not to drill, but to create; when they gather from far every ray of various genius to their hospitable halls, and by the concentrated fires, set the hearts of their youth on flame.” —Emerson in The American Scholar

Searching for identity
By SAM WEIR
Guest Columnist
[First in a series]

Before Christmas, I raised the question of Davidson's identity. In the next few weeks, I hope that we can all attempt to answer that question. This week we will look at the question of a “Christian” college in general. In the following weeks, “Liberal Arts,” “Christian Liberal Arts Colleges,” and “Davidson” will be dealt with. I sincerely hope to provoke a healthy dialogue among different members of our community and encourage response, particularly in the form of letters to the Editor and other columns in The Davidsonian.

Let us begin our investigation of a “Christian” institution by trying to come to grips with the question “What is a Christian?” Webster’s defines Christian as an “adherent to the religion derived from Jesus Christ, based on the Bible as sacred scripture, and professed by Eastern, Roman Catholic, and Protestant bodies.” C.S. Lewis (Mere Christianity, p. 11) adds, “The name Christians was first given at Antioch (Acts 11:26) to ‘the disciples,’ i.e., those who accepted the teaching of the apostles.” Both of these statements rightfully emphasize the doctrinal aspects of being Christian. I would add that a Christian consistently attempts to apply “the teaching of the apostles” to his life. Christians are people who, because of what they believe, seek to live Godly lives through the grace of Jesus and in the power of the Holy Spirit.

How then can a college be “Christian?” It is people who are Christians, not colleges. At the same time, any college reflects the beliefs of its administrators, professors, and students in its corporate personality. The fundamental sense in which any institution may be Christian lies in this fact. A Christian college consists, therefore, of any institution within which Christians are living as salt and light (Matthew 5:13-16) in and through the community they are a part of. To act as salt and light in a college includes loving your colleagues with the quality of love Jesus had for his disciples (John 13:34-35). That quality of love influences all aspects of one’s character and revolutionizes one’s relationships. Working through a college involves forming and using the structure and policies of the college to obey Jesus. A Christian college, then, is a studying-learning community whose members struggle to live Godly lives and to reflect the apostles’ teaching not only in their own personalities but also in every aspect of the college's personality, including the content and structure of the academic experience, the admissions and financial aid policies, the special programs, and the involvement of the college in the life of the community around it.