Private
By HARRY GREYARD
Senior Editor

The battle to increase tuition credit for North Carolina students enrolled in private schools and universities is expected to start
when the state legislature convenes in January. The private schools, including Davidson, want the aid increased from an average of
$600 per student to $800 by 1980-81. Last week, The Davidsonian examined the history of the tuition credit program. In
this week's concluding installment of the article, private school leaders express their opinions.

Any request by the private schools must be screened by the Board of Governors of the University of North Carolina—the
group that oversees the operation of the entire public university system.

News analysis: Part I

At a meeting in November, the UNC Board unanimously declined to endorse the private schools’ proposal. However, any action by
the UNC Board is not final. Next, the request goes before the Advisory Budget Commission (ABC) of North Carolina. That
body suggests the fiscal budget for the state. Both the private and state schools have already sent letters, submitting their
respective positions, to Governor Jim Hunt, who is the director of the commission. The ABC’s recommendation then goes to the
legislature which makes the final decision. However, the legislature is under no obligation to accept a recommendation from any group.

An opening salvo in the battle was fired in November when the UNC board refused to endorse the proposal. A
vice-president of the state system accused the private schools of trying to take a “free lunch.” In discussing the reasons
for the UNC board's actions, vice-president John Sanders was quoted as saying, “Unlike our friends in the private sector, we
believe there is no such thing as a free lunch.”

During an interview, Davidson College President Samuel Spencer said private schools are not seeking a free lunch. “The private schools
are asking for aid to students rather than aid to the institutions. I think (the UNC action) represents a sort
of rigidity that does not recognize the importance of aid to private college students in North Carolina.” Spencer’s comments illustrate
the importance that private school leaders attach to the grants.

Volume LXVIII, Number ELEVEN
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
December 15, 1978

THE CAMPUS-WIDE Christmas Party last night featured a visit by Santa Claus, much to these kids’ delight. (Parks Snead)

Erwin wins landslide victory
By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Davidson students selected Charles Erwin as editor of The Davidsonian in the Tuesday elections. Erwin, a junior, outpolled Joe Ferraro
by a 510-120 margin. Ferraro, who had not learned of the final tally until reached by The Davidsonian, commented, “The
final results show that Davidson students are secure with the things they have; it shows their conservative nature.”

Ferraro's campaign emphasized his innovations and fresh approach to journalism over the experience of Erwin, who is presently news editor.
Erwin commented, “I was extremely impressed by the enthusiasm of my opponent, and would encourage him to do as much
work for the paper as he would like. Many of his ideas were good."

Erwin discussed some of his own ideas which he plans to effect when he takes over the editorship of the
paper following the Christmas break. “I want to straighten out the whole production of the paper so that working for
the Davidsonian can be more than an exercise in frustration. I want to improve our...credibility. “Obviously, I cannot do these
things alone,” Erwin added. “I’m encouraged that so many of the present staff members have expressed an interest in continuing
to work for the paper. Without them, nothing could be improved.” Erwin also pointed out that many positions will be
available on the paper, and urged any student who wishes to contribute his time or talent to The Davidsonian to
contact him. “The ‘welcome mat’ is out,” he remarked. Erwin will use the first week following the break to appoint
a staff, get organized, and make changes. The next issue of The Davidsonian will appear January 18.

Piedmont increases checking charges

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

Students expressed dismay last Friday as Piedmont Bank and Trust Company, the only bank in town, announced a major rate
increase for its checking account customers. The announcement came in the form of a letter in this month’s bank statement.
Although the maintenance fee will remain at $1.00 per month, check processing will go up from $.11 to $.20 per
check. Also, the bank is switching from a $100 minimum balance for free checking to a $600 average balance, the
latter representing the average of daily balances in the account. This average balance is usually 2 to 2½ times greater
than the minimum balance. Piedmont plans to give its customers a 5 and one-half annual credit for the average balance
to offset monthly charges.

“As I see it, from now on you’re going to have to pay a very high average monthly checking fee,”
commented sophomore Vincent Long. “Since I already have another in-state account I don’t see any point in keeping one at
Piedmont open any longer considering the new increase.”

Junior Charlie Bridges, an Economics major, expressed mixed emotions over the rate hike. “On one level I’m pretty upset. Like
anyone else, I want to have all the services possible at the least cost. Also, there are very few college
students who could keep a $200 balance for any length of time.”

“But, on another level I can sympathize with them. Most of us write a large number of checks, a lot
of them in small amounts.” Bridges continued, “This is probably a tough time for banks considering the amount of government
regulation and tight monetary policy. I know First Union and Wachovia, for example, raised their minimum balance for free checking
to $200 last year. One economics professor told me that many banks will be forced either to close or to
merge within the next decade (see Bank, page 3).”

‘Hobart’s’

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
News Editor

Barring unforeseen circumstances, Hobart’s Park should make its debut today, according to Amanda Hall, one of the editors of the
new campus magazine. The publication was originally scheduled for release on Wednesday, but printing problems delayed the completion by one
day. Hall expressed satisfaction over the results of the staff’s efforts. She commented, “We feel that we have met our
goal that we set in the spring, to offer a magazine that has variety, something of interest to everyone on
campus.” Hall said the editors “heavily stressed balancing each department.” As a result, the editors “held some things” to promote
this balance. Hall said future issues, however, will be the third week of January,” she added.
