as 1M: McDOWELL rounds third base following another Cat hit. The squad is now 7-6 and their aggressive hitting has
been a major factor in their success.

* Sailers place well in regatta

By GREGG LONDREY
Staff Writer

Davidson's Sailing team opened its spring season recently with an impressive second-place finish in the Duke Invitational Points Regatta at
Kerr Lake, N.C. Their success in this meet puts the Wildcat yachtsmen in good position to qualify for the SAISA
championships to be held April 15-16 at Clemson.

The Davidson team consisted of A division skipper Jeff Harris and crew Gregg Londrey and B division skipper David Love
and crew Stuart Baskin. Harris sailed to a second-place finish in A division, while Love tied for third in B.
The combination was enough to give Davidson second place overall. Old Dominion of Norfolk, Va. won the regatta.

The regatta was sailed under a "3A-3B" format where three A division races are sailed followed by three B, then
three more A, and concluding with three more B races.

The day started out very cold and gusty but by midday had calmed down to a pleasant 6-8 knot breeze.

Both Davidson skippers sailed their worst races early and saved their best performances for late in the regatta. Harris had
a third and a fifth in the first two A division races, the fifth coming after being over the line
early.

However, Harris came back in his final three races of the day (he had a bye the third race) with
a strong 1-2-1 finish. Love, a senior, also started out slow with a third and a fourth, but came on
with a first, a fourth, and a second in his final three races.

The sailing team’s season continues this Saturday at the lake campus with the second points regatta of the spring season.

Harris commented on the team’s hopes for the weekend, “We should have an advantage since we'll be sailing our own
boats on familiar water; however, the worries that come with running the regatta sometimes tend to offset that advantage, so
we will just have to wait and see.”

Teams from Duke, N.C. State, U.Va., ODU, and Christopher Newport College will participate in this weekend's regatta.

SLUGGER GEORGE Parks takes a hefty cut at a pitch, but all for naught as he pops up to the
second baseman. Bad Bernard and Hogman are on vacation this week and will have an update on IMAC softball next
week.

Batters overpower opposing pitchers

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Last Friday, the Wildcat baseball team lost 10-9 in a hard-fought slugging duel against Slippery Rock. The Cats had been
riding high after their impressive victories over Muskingum (17-2) and Glenville St. (11-0). Coach Palmer Muench feared the Cats might
have a slow start against Slippery Rock, a much more aggressive opponent than the teams played earlier in the week.
Having won these two games somewhat easily, the Cats may have suffered a loss of intensity against Slippery Rock.

The Cats allowed Slippery Rock to run up the score to 7-0 in the first few innings. Muench explained that
the Cats’ starting pitcher, John Madden, “really didn’t throw too badly, but our defense let him down on several crucial
plays.” The early inning errors and the powerful Slippery Rock hitting forced the coach to bring in freshman pitcher Dave
Tornetta in the second inning. Helped by the Cat defense which finally settled into its usual consistency, Tornetta pitched seven
strong innings. Muench said after the game that the 6’4” hard-throwing freshman had finally become a college “pitcher rather than
just a thrower.”

Despite being down 7-0 early in the game, the Cats never gave up, as they slowly chipped away at the
Slippery Rock lead. Patiently they moved the score to 10-5 entering the last half of the ninth inning. With two
hits and one walk, the Cats loaded the bases. Then the leading Cat power hitter, Stan Brown, came to the
plate. Tension mounted as the 6'4” senior swung mightily at two pitches, both of which he missed. The floodgates of
tension burst forth in relief as the crash of Brown’s bat signaled a stunning “grand slam” home run, moving the
Cats to within one run. Despite getting the next batter on base, the Cats were unable to get that tying
run across the plate, and so lost the hard-fought contest.

After the game, Muench was pleased with his team’s refusal to give up. “A lot of teams would have given
up when behind by seven runs, but we stuck with it and showed our ability to come from behind.” The
coach feels the team needs to start quicker, rather than waiting several innings before beginning their aggressive attack. The Cats
must stop their opponents from jumping ahead in the early innings, so that they will not be forced to play
“catch-up” as each game progresses.

Results

Baseball: 7-6
Slippery Rock 8, Davidson 7
Davidson 5, Guilford 3

Men’s Tennis: 13-2
Davidson 9, Ohio 0
Davidson 8, West Chester 1
Davidson 9, East Stroudsburg 0
Davidson 9, MIT 0
Davidson 6, Atlantic Christian 3

Women’s Tennis: 3-3
Davidson 8, Pfeiffer 1
Davidson 6, Converse 3
Peace 6, Davidson 3
Davidson 5, N.C. State 4
Wake Forest 9, Davidson 0
Radcliffe 7, Davidson 2

Track: 3-0
Davidson 96, Lynchburg 66

the WORLD FAMOUS

PIZZA • LASAGNE • RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINI
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
VEAL PARMIGIANA
STEAKS and other dishes
CHOICE WINES & BEERS

3715-1449
1818 W. MOREHEAD
