Philip Duncan, Editor
G. Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Volume LXVIII, Number Eleven
December 8, 1978

From the Editor

If elected, I promise that...

On December 13, 1977, some Davidson student married me to this newspaper for 12 months. Doubtless, the quality of the
paper would have been better had I gathered around me a small, closed group of semi-professional student journalists. The Davidsonian
is a student media, and its doors must be open to all students who want to help.

My latest figures show that about 35 people work each and every week to put out the newspaper, with 50-60
more lending us a hand at one time or another. Those numbers fulfill my campaign promise.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: The Davidsonian will not become an excellent newspaper until we dramatically increase the size of the staff. We
must draw in dynamic new people, new outlooks that will challenge us to consider a broader range of viewpoints before
writing news articles and editorials.

At my small high school back home, the football coach was always a little worried that there wouldn’t be enough
players to field a competitive team, so each year around August 1, the coach held open tryouts. Since the coach
was afraid that players might drop out or get hurt as the season progressed, he hardly ever cut anyone who
tried out; most were awarded game uniforms.

We had good football teams at our school—we didn’t go undefeated or capture the state championship, but we always won
more than we lost and had a good time in the process. I've staffed The Davidsonian like the coach manned
his team. I welcomed anyone who showed an interest and gave their best effort. I wasn’t so concerned that every
staff member was a literary genius or a layout wizard—my main goal was to pull together as many students as
possible to work, learn, and have fun.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Duncan is also considering affiliating The Davidsonian with the Associated Collegiate Press, the College Press Service, or another
of the national organizations that serve college newspapers. The goal was to bring The Davidsonian and Davidson out of its
little corner of the world. We have joined the College Press Service in September and now run CPS copy to
complement our local coverage. We have also linked up with the Associated Collegiate Press, whose Critical Evaluation Service should tell
us exactly how The Davidsonian ranks in comparison to other college newspapers. ACP will also offer detailed suggestions on how
we can improve. The newspaper will also submit itself to critical evaluation by the Columbia Scholastic Press Association. Our association
with CPS, ACP, CSPA, and other such groups will improve the quality of the newspapers you read and in time
will return The Davidsonian to the award-winning national prominence it enjoyed in the 1950s and 1960s.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: If elected, Duncan plans to invite professional journalists to the campus regularly to critique The Davidsonian. This hope
stumbled and fumbled along and never really got off the ground. Moreland Hogan, knowledgeable editor of The Mecklenburg Gazette, spent
an afternoon with the staff, but I never got around to arranging visits by others. Thanks to other groups on
campus, some of us talked with Godfrey Sperling from The Christian Science Monitor (courtesy of the Speakers Committee) and with
several of The Charlotte Observer's top editors (courtesy of Buck Lawrimore). Not a total loss, but don’t give me more
than a D plus on this one.

CAMPAIGN PROMISE: Duncan plans to conduct a poll covering the students’ attitudes on a number of subjects and will test
the feasibility of two polling procedures. This is wonderful campaign rhetoric. You know ‘I’m Phil Duncan, and I’m interested in
You,’ and all that jazz. It didn’t take too long as editor for me to realize that we have neither
the expertise nor the time to conduct a thorough, accurate poll. I hoped through the year that some sociology major
would drop in and volunteer to shoulder the burden of opinion polls, but I hoped in vain. No polls.

To be continued next week.

—Philip Duncanand all interested in playing. My objective in joining the can is also interested in disco, foo, national press
organizations, and class scheduling.

By DENNIS McLAWHORN
News Editor

One of the major problems with course registration at Davidson is that there are few time slots which students find
convenient or desirable. Afternoon classes often pose conflicts with labs, sports practices and games, and other activities. Upperclassmen in eating
houses certainly do not want one o'clock classes, and who in his right mind wants to get up for an
eight o'clock class?

Consequently, there is a consistent overabundance of students who want only 9, 11, and 12 o'clock classes. I propose moving
8 o'clock classes to 8:30 and 9 o'clock classes to 9:30, thereby shortening the present 10 o'clock break to one-half
hour.

The mid-morning break is nice for such necessities as the traditional migration to the post office, a trip to the
laundry, conference with professors, coffee and cokes, last-minute homework, and various other activities. Few of these activities require the full
hour; a half hour would serve just as well and would prevent a waste of time. Commitments which do require
the full hour, such as physical education classes, could be moved to the afternoon. (Nobody wants P.E. classes anyway, much
less at 10:00; not only are afternoons warmer, but having to get dressed, go to gym class, take a shower,
and run to 11:00 class with wet hair is neither fun nor convenient). The afternoon, in any event, would be
freer as a result of my proposal, as students could take more morning classes.

The reason students would take more morning classes is fairly obvious. As I have mentioned before, students do not want
8:00 classes. Not only would getting up half an hour later be a psychological boost, it would actually be physically
easier. Some might argue that it would not make any difference—that waking up is a matter of habit. But I
would submit that there is a big psychological difference between getting out of bed at 7:30 and getting up at
8:00. Every student with whom I have discussed this matter agrees.

My point is that students will find an 8:30 class more desirable than an 8:00 class; therefore, enrollment in that
first class will increase and consequently lighten the burden on other class periods. Think about this proposal. I don't want
to see apathy destroy this idea as it has destroyed so many good ideas in the past. At least throw
it around and tell me why not. I won’t take mere tradition as an argument.

Students of Davidson
Davidson, N.C.
Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

Executive Editors:
PAMELA CAMERRA
LYMAN A. COLLINS, II

Senior Editors:
BILL BARNETT
HARRY GREYARD

Features Editor:
BILL PEEPLES

Focus Editor:
ANN GARNER

Copy Editor:
DAVE ISENHOWER

Published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by:

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP, MANAGEMENT & CIRCULATION (Required by 39 U.S.C. 3685)

1) The Davidsonian
2) Frequency: Once weekly during the academic year except exams, holidays
3A) 30 issues annually
3B) Annual subscription price $6.00
4) Location of office of publication: Davidson College, College Union, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
5) Location of general business offices: same
6) Publisher: Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
7) Editor: Philip D. Duncan, P.O. Box 4094, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
8) Known bondholders, etc.: none
9) Extent and nature of circulation:
A. Total no. of copies printed: 2350, average over last 12 months: 2350
B. Paid circulation:
1. Sales through dealers and carriers, etc.: none
2. Mail subscriptions: 250
D. Free distribution by mail, samples, etc.: 2,000, average over last 12 months: 2000
F. Copies not distributed, office use, spoiled after printing: 100, average over last 12 months: 100
G. Total over last 12 months: 2350
10) I certify that the statements made by me above are correct and complete. /s/G. Martin Hunter, II.

BARRY SACHTJEN
The Back Page Editor

LINDA HOOPES
Special Assignments Editor

SUZANNE NEWBERRY
Advertising Manager

DIANE ODOM
Production Manager

AMANDA HALL
Circulation Manager

KAREN LONG
Department assistants: News—Don Caldwell, Carole Lopton; Sports—Mike Bria, John Willingham; Editorial Page—Sheri Gravett; Photography—Phil Howerton; Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson; Production—Marshall Waddell;
Orientation—Ricky Watson; Donya Boytston, Ralph Lasley, Richard Neill.

The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone:
892-2000, Ext. 148; subscription rate: $6.00 per year.
