September 29, 1978

The Davidsonian

IMAC plan implemented
Spencer, Burts solve ref shortage

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD
Staff Writers

Cave canem, ad astra per aspera! Welcome and all that crap. There has been some big news this past week
on the Flickerball scene. As most of you know, there has been a terrible shortage of IMAC refs for the
last two weeks. The problem got so bad at one time that IMAC czar John Ratliff threatened to terminate the
season if something was not done immediately. What did you say? Fall at Davidson without flickerball? Well, that is almost
like horse-turds without horseflies, or ARA without a train wreck. But just when Ratliff was about to issue the executive
order to end the season, President Spencer and Registrar Richard “Dick” Burts came to the rescue, each with their own
separate plan to solve the problem.

Burts noted that, “I think my plan is the best because it is so much less complicated. Every student will
pre-register for the flickerball season (including the initialed approval of advisor, major advisor, team captain, and two townies) and then
once again three days before each game. This will allow the front office to predict which games will be forfeits
and not need refs. Therefore, by allocating those flickerball officials we have now more efficiently, we won’t need to hire
any new officials. It will work, believe me. After all, we have always had enough courses available to students at
drop/add under my plans, haven’t we?”

President Spencer assessed the situation with a wave of his hand. “I think we can kill two birds with one
stone. We can solve the problems of poor student-faculty relations and lack of refs by merely allowing some professors to
officiate a few of the contests. During the half, we could serve coffee and cokes, and the students and teachers
could mingle. A number of professors have mentioned to me that they would be interested in helping out.”

Soccer drops two due to inexperience

By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

Soccer coach Karl Kremser feels that his team’s record should be 4-1. The fact is, however, that after two losses
this week—at the feet of Winthrop (2-0) and Western Carolina (4-1)—the team’s record is a not-so-bright one win, three losses,
and a tie. Kremser’s only explanation is the plea of coaches everywhere: experience, or the lack thereof. In the case
of Davidson soccer, there are two points of evidence to back Kremser’s feeling. First is the relatively new status of
soccer at Davidson. The second is that at any point in a game there may be as many as eight
freshmen on the field.

Kremser characterizes the last two games as “disorganized,” a style of play that, as coach, he is trying to discourage.
He is trying to institute a philosophy of control and patience. “But soccer,” Kremser maintains, “hasn't been at Davidson long
enough to establish a traditional style of play.” As a result, the team is easily caught up in a “kick-the-ball-as-far-as-you-can
and hope” attitude, the cause of the last two losses. But Kremser is confident that soccer will be successful here
in the long run. It’s the immediate future that’s unpredictable. Adversity generally has two predictable effects. It can bring out
the best in an athlete, make him “shine,” when under other circumstances he might go unnoticed. Kremser sees this in
individual cases and these are the people he will play. The other effect, one more common on a young and
inexperienced team, is to demoralize. For the future of soccer at Davidson, let’s hope it’s the former.

AN EVANS eludes another frustrated defender as he turns the corner for yet another six. Alert officiating by W.H. Martin
and N.A. Williams ensured that a 15-yard penalty for illegal time was assessed.As all of you know, I am still
pushing for self-selection of flickerball teams. Williams has had a lot of success with that in the past.” Ratliff decided
to go with Spencer’s idea after President Spencer showed young John some tables illustrating the problem of increasing unemployment among
small college Economics professors. We think John made a wise decision, and we would like to point out that the
first game under these new rules will be played Friday at 10 am with Dr. Jean Cornell and Dr. George
Abernethy serving as officials. The two teams, chosen at random from a lottery, are the SAE #1 team and the
KA Gold team. Good luck, men, you'll need it.

In keeping with past traditions, we would like to once again present our player and play of the week. For
the week of September 12-19, our player of the week honor goes to Steve “Bizz” Risley. Risley fired three touchdown
passes in the fourth quarter to give TBA a 24-20 comeback victory over Big Boa and the Greensnakes. Our play
of the week came from Gregg Strader’s fleet game. Dr. Dave Shi caught a pass on his own 46-yard line,
took three steps, and cut right, and then right there in front of everyone he gave birth to a baby
boy. The 9½ pound youngster then scooped the ball up and took it on in for the score. It was
a great day for MacFleet, but a bad one for Mrs. Shi—the child looks just like “Disco” Dave, afro hairstyle
and all.

Other big news this week is that the Old Men picked up free agent Kevin Doherty just before the police
did. Doherty, at 6'3” and with a vertical jump of 43 inches, will be used primarily to block field goals.
Team Captain Jeff Frank said, “It’s the best thing that happened to our team since Ortmayer resigned.”

The Cadillac Cowboys, led by King Tut, won 52-0. Team Captain Tony Langley commented after the game, “We need to
go back to our fundamentals.” The SAE’s inched by the 45-0, and the McFleet and Stuff rolled over Fourthcoming, 47-12,
and then enjoyed the 69ers, 48-6. It was a costly win for McFleet, though, as they lost Dave Pottinger for
the year with a strained peepee.

The KA Gold smashed the Drawbacks, 58-0, and then drew back and clubbed 4th Sentelle Sequoia, 33-0. Up and Coming
destroyed 1st Rich’s 4th String, 40-0, as Jay Wade scored 7 touchdowns alone. TBA overcame the loss of star defensive
player, “Bad Pearl,” to a knee injury and overcame the SPE’s 24-20. Playing with only six players and down 20-0,
TBA switched to straight football and Buzz Foster scored the go-ahead touchdown as time expired.

Hurtin for Certain pledged the GDI’s 39-19, in a game that saw Double D Sanders chow down at Hoskins. The
Four Skins nipped the GBO Express 34-33 and the KA Blue gave it to B.J. and the Reamers in the
rear, 32-12.

In women’s flickerball, Ruskeller bipped Bops, 6-0, the Amazing Greys booted their way past Cannon 3, 3-0, and the Penthouse
Rowdies smashed two opponents by a combined score of 38-6. There were several other women’s games but who cares about
the scores but Melody.

And now for the Terrific Ten:
1. SAE
2. KA Gold
3. MacFleet and Stuff
4. Up and Coming
5. Old Men
6. Four Skins
7. Hurtin for Certain
8. TBA
9. Big Boa and the Greensnakes
10. KA Blue

Later. Next week: Feature on Women’s IMAC!

May be obtained by writing:
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
