The Davidsonian
January 27, 1978

Late-blooming sculptor likes hot rock
By ESTHER BRUCE
Asst. Features Editor

“I get an idea of what I want and then I just dig in and see what’s in there.” This explanation may satisfy the question that pops into one’s mind upon seeing the current sculpture display in the Union: “Where did he come up with that?” He finds it already hiding in the stone.

Lee Hansel, creator of these numerous sculptures, is a late bloomer. “I started taking a sculpture course when I retired.” He started working in clay, progressed to metal, and finally began to work in stone. Since then he has been working mostly in stone. “I like stone pretty good, and I have plenty of stone available.”

Before he retired, he worked in a body shop. He feels that his work still helps him. “Shaping fenders and bodies helps me in working.” Although he does not work on cars anymore, he does his sculpting in the back of a front-end shop.

Although he does have some idea when he starts, he is never quite sure exactly what he will end up with. “You change as you go along. If you make a mistake, you have to work around it.” But he says that sometimes a mistake can lead to a better sculpture in the long run. He tries to be original, but he is also alert for new things. “I try to keep from doing anything exactly like anybody else, but still I’m always looking for ideas.”

The reactions to the display have been varied because some of the pieces seem to be suggestive. Granted, not all, indeed many of the sculptures could be deemed erotic. In response to that thought, Mr. Hansel simply states, “that’s what I try to make ’em like. If everybody agrees with everything, then it’s not much of a piece.”

He wants to do some more work in metal sculpture, but somehow he cannot seem to get away from stone. “I’m planning to make some more metal sculpture, but every time I finish a stone sculpture I just go get another piece of stone.”

Stomp your feet
By MARTIN MCCOY
Staff Writer

It’s the weekend and you're hungry for action? Head for the city? No! Head for the country! It’s only as far as a crossroads called Terrell, N.C., and it’s the Lake Norman Music Hall.

Approaching on Highway 150, it looks like a used car lot with banners and lights and cars and trucks all around. The place itself is plain yet charming in its simplicity. It’s like a warehouse or maybe a Cessna aircraft hangar filled with folding chairs. There’s a wooden recessed stage at one end. At the other end is cotton candy, hot dogs, records, and various souvenirs peddled by the performers.

The music is first-rate. There’s hell raisin’, foot stompin’, bluegrass on Saturdays and Gospel sings on Sunday afternoons. I’ve seen three shows there recently and each has been different and entertaining. The New South was young and progressive with good harmony. Lester Flatt and the Nashville Grass were—goodness gracious—they’re old-time but still the best. Most recently was the Lewis Family who were a wild mixture of gospel, bluegrass, and comedy.

This Saturday is the biggest show yet—Bill Monroe’s “Big Mid-Winter Show.” For the uninitiated, Bill Monroe is known as the “Father of Bluegrass,” and he rightly deserves the title. The show is from 2 to 11 pm and it costs five dollars instead of the usual $3.50.

During Midwinter’s Weekend on Saturday, February 4, there will be a fiddler’s convention sponsored by the Catawba Rescue Squad. A convention is a competition by amateur bluegrass bands for prizes. It’s also a time for swapping songs and forming new groups. It all starts at 7.

Perhaps the most enjoyable thing about the place is the people. They are good hard-working people out to have a good time without pretensions. Or at least their pretensions are limited to wearing double-knit suits. Always there are verbal duels between the audience and the musicians. Occasionally some character will get...up and start dancing around and cutting up. People hand their requests directly to the players and talk to each other.

If you think you might make a go of it—and I urge you to—just go up Interstate 77 to 150, then follow 150 west for about six miles. It’s only about 15 or 20 minutes away. I recommend a stop on the way at the Anchor Tavern on 115 just north of here to put you in the mood.

We believe Ram-Jet is the most exciting piece of high-performance automotive equipment since the V-8. Yet it weighs only a few ounces, installs in a couple of minutes (No special tools or training needed. You won't even get your hands greasy). Costs less than a tankful of gas and saves you so much gas, it's like getting up to one gallon in every ten FREE!

The brainchild of Ed Almquist, internationally famous automotive engineer and the “Thomas Edison of high-performance accessories,” the Ram-Jet took over 20 years to develop and perfect.

How does it work? Just as a jet engine requires a certain supply of air to operate, so does the gasoline combustion engine in your car. And it's the carburetor that mixes this air with fuel to fire the cylinders and make your car go. The problem is that carburetors were invented over 50 years ago when gas was plentiful and cheap and air pollution wasn't even talked about. The carburetor hasn't changed much since then: It’s still a big compromise! It only works perfectly on those rare occasions when all driving conditions are perfect. (Which averages only a couple of minutes at the most out of every driving hour.)

Now, at last, the Ram-Jet to the rescue! It solves both problems at once. It brings your 50-year-old carburetor design into the Jet Age.

1) It works like a “mini-computer” to automatically adjust the air/gas mixture to your every driving need. It thus steps up gas molecularization, reducing the over-rich mixture before it becomes wasteful. Just as a jet engine sucks air into it, the Ram-Jet automatically and safely jets air into the gas mixture the very split second your driving conditions require it.

2) It captures the polluted air that would ordinarily be fed back into your engine and re-energizes it into a jet that is once again ignited into useful clean power instead of clogging up your engine and making it hesitate and burn more gas than is really necessary.

Other similar devices sold for more than $20. The Ram-Jet Supercharger is now available to you for just $14.95. Because of a special arrangement, it comes to you direct (no middlemen) from the inventor, Mr. Ed Almquist.

“Suddenly my little six-cylinder engine seems to have the power of an eight-cylinder engine. We found that we average from 2 to 6 more miles per gallon. It’s no telling how many extra power-packed miles you'll be able to jog on your engine before it's ready for the junk heap.”

Looking for an MBA Program? The MBA Program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill has an excellent national ranking. Why? A distinguished faculty, an outstanding student body, an innovative curriculum, and a reputation for quality among employers.

MBA Program
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Carroll Hall, 012-A, Drawer 687
Chapel Hill, NC 27514

Consumer Cooper Dept.
918 S. Michigan Ave.
Chicago, Illinois 60605

Please rush me the following on your 90-day money-back guarantee:
1 RAM-JET $14.95
2 RAM-JETS $25.95

Enclose 75¢ for handling & postage in cash, check, or money order.

Truck or Car (year & model): ___________
Name: ___________________________
Address: __________________________