Paneer? “September 22, 1978

Basic programs remain strong
Present facilities and competition hinder growth

By ANN GARNER
Focus Editor

Although plagued with inadequate facilities and growing competition, women’s tennis coach and P.E. instructor Pat Miller described women’s sports at
Davidson as “basically a sound program.” For women at Davidson, intercollegiate competition this year includes basketball, field hockey, tennis, and
cross country. In addition, co-educational club sports increase the possibilities for involvement in sailing, water-skiing, and riflery.

With the passage of Title IX, the structure of women’s collegiate sports has gained nationwide attention. At Davidson, the compliance
date of July 1978 prompted intense study by the Athletic department and, in an advisory capacity, the co-education sub-committee of
the Campus and Religious Life. Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, who headed the sub-committee, sees the basis of problems
as revolving around “an outmoded facility.” Miller agreed, “I'd like to see women’s swim and volleyball teams added. But with
only one gym for everything, we have no room. We hardly handle what we have now,” she added.

Women’s intercollegiate sports team members’ attitudes reflect continued optimism

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Asst. Focus Editor

Women at Davidson seem satisfied with the women’s sports program and optimistic about its continued improvement and support. “I think
women here in sports are doing pretty well,” remarked Katherine Whitney, Captain of the Rifle Team. Since Title IX went
into effect, the College has increasingly moved to improve women’s sports. “I could have talked for two hours last year
on how the College divides things up between teams—money—but they really did a lot to straighten it out this summer.
Davidson is certainly getting a lot better in dividing up facilities and giving us more money,” said Tennis Team member
Sara Tatum.

The women’s teams are in different stages of development. The women’s participation on the swim team is uncertain. Ruth Ann
Westervelt, a sophomore swimmer, is optimistic. “Last year a nucleus of girls didn’t really try to get a team together.
This year we're trying to get together and talk to some of the freshmen. Coach Miller told us if we
got a group together we probably wouldn't have any trouble getting a team. If we put the word out, I
believe we could. I'd like to see one here.”

The newest team is the women’s cross country team, started this year. One of the organizers of the team, Paula
Kadison, said, “There’s been enough interest before this year. The money has always been there, it’s just the interest hasn’t
been.” She continued, “Now we have a core group of about five girls who are really interested, really committed. Of
those girls, I’m the only senior. So there will definitely be a team—a strong team—after this year.”

Both the field hockey and the basketball teams are trying to stabilize. “Field hockey was new my freshman year. We
sort of proved to everybody that we were really seriously committed. Last year we learned about defeat. Our first game
this year is coming up and then we can really start showing people what we can do with it,” said
Mary Gray Gilchrist, Field Hockey and Tennis Team member. Basketball teammate Donna Ferren felt that “Women’s basketball has improved a
lot, in the sense that we have a regular coach and she's had an assistant the last two years. This
has really helped the stability of the program.”

However, Ferren felt, “The administration and faculty have not shown much support in the situation.” The situation has been helped
somewhat with the renovation of the women’s locker room and the transfer of two locker rooms for the women’s teams.
Director of Athletics Thomas A. Cartmill estimates that the project will be completed in 10 to 12 weeks. Regarding equipment,
Miller feels that “we get as much as any men’s minor sport.” Roberts, however, feels that women’s sports are “more
minor than other minor sports—just in taking care of facilities.”

However, the new thrust of intercollegiate recruitment centers increasingly on the athletic scholarships that the institutions offer prospective students. Miller
elaborated, “Our problem is that over the past four years, the athletic programs at other schools have been increasingly scholarship-wise.
When I first came here in the fall of 1974, we were competing against Division I teams in basketball and
tennis.” With increased competition, the women’s tennis and basketball dropped from Division I status.The tennis program now belongs to Division
2, while basketball has dropped to the third division. Yet Field Hockey, according to Roberts, "has been able to stay
competitive because of the terms of coming to the games. A lot of people don’t know about our games. Our
games are usually scheduled at bad times, like around supper time. We try to publicize it as much as we
can." Although the women have encountered some ridicule or felt some uneasiness, they seem to have dealt with it and
adjusted to it. With male teammates, Rulenwider found, "At first there was a lot of kidding about being on a
guys’ team. But I think you became one of the team. That’s the way I wanted it to be."

Women mentioned camaraderie, immediate results, a change from academics, and the need for emotional and physical outlets as main reasons
for participating in sports. "I’m not that competitive, but it’s good motivation and the camaraderie of the team is such
good motivation for running," said Dubose. "In sports, you can really see the results right away. There's pressure, but it’s
relieved often enough through satisfaction. Some people play the piano or something else. But lots of people don’t have anything
to get away from academics," explained Kirk Cameron, Captain of the Field Hockey and Tennis teams and fourth-ranked squash player
in national intercollegiate competition.

"As a member of the U.S. Field Hockey Association," she continued, "we are able to compete against all other member
schools in the state." But the questions of scholarships for women athletes and College funding for a major women’s sport
remain. "We're strongly in favor of the College moving towards integrating women into the total athletic program and giving women
a fair shake," said Ross. "But we don't have a clear sense of women’s feelings and overall problems."

"Because women are so relatively new and their long-range needs are highly speculative, we need to see what kind of
women Davidson attracts without scholarships," added Ross. "It is required that Davidson give athletic scholarships to one women’s sport because
men’s basketball is funded," she continued. "But female coaches and students are divided on this question."

While making their study, the subcommittee on coeducation uncovered another aspect. "The general attitude is that once you begin to
grant scholarships, there is a greater pressure to win," explained committee member Cathy Howard. "This changes the situation and many
feel that the joy of the sport is lost when the drive to win is so intense."

Cartmill sees the situation differently. "Right now the problem is in seeking the level of competition the women would like,"
he said. "Over the next year I think what we'll be doing is studying our competition to see just where
we want to go." But despite the present internal troubles, student participation, according to Roberts, "for the kids involved is
all the same."

"I have nothing but praise for the students involved," echoed Miller. "When you're playing against teams with scholarships, there’s not
really much you can do. Obviously, other schools are doing something if we're dropping that low." Roberts reiterated, "We’re staying
the same and everyone else is passing us by."

"I think the President and I feel strongly that as interest areas grow, we want to expand," said Cartmill. "There
is a genuine and sincere interest by the entire College community. Huge decisions have to be made," concluded Ross. "There
is now an inequity in that a female athlete can’t come to Davidson on an athletic scholarship. Yet it’s such
a difficult situation to balance."

SOPHOMORE SALLY CRAIG is one of ten returning field hockey players. The team finished last season with a 5-2 record.
Hope for improvement is high as the team faces Catawba in its first game on Tuesday. One major concern of
the women was scholastics. Cameron emphasized, "I think it would hurt women’s sports if Davidson started giving scholarships. Scholarships would
cut down on the number of women who could play. It would change the program—the attitude would change I’m afraid."
(Gregg Strader)

Gripes, both minor and major, persist although the women seem to feel the experience is worthwhile. "What we need is
publicity," Gilchrist asserted. Hope McArm of the Tennis Team concluded, "I really think women’s sports add a whole other realm
to the Davidson experience."
