— 8 — The Davidsonian October 27, 1978

Investments support corporations in South Africa

BERKELEY, CA (CPS)— The banner read “UC Invests in Death.” It fluttered, briefly, at the top of the highest flagpole on the University of California-Berkeley campus one morning late last month, until the school...

The past summer was a quiet one on California campuses. Davidson also owns stock in companies which have interests in South Africa. College Business Manager Robert Currie said yesterday that the Board of Trustees’ Finance Committee is presently making a recommendation to the entire board as to whether or not Davidson should divest.

BAFFL (Bay Area Free Flag Levitator) said the ascent of the 100-foot flagpole was made “in order to dramatize and diamonds there they may be supporting South Africa’s oppressive regime.” Don Davis of Students for Economic and Racial Justice (SERJ) testified at the meeting that the AS action was consistent with referenda showing a majority of UC students favor termination of the University’s ties with South Africa.

Under the act, which the president is expected to sign into law shortly, dependents of families earning more than $16,000 are eligible for work-study grants for the first time ever. Average grants to families earning $8,000-$16,000 per year will go up by some $200. Tuition tax credits legislation, which would have allowed families to deduct up to $100 in tuition costs from their income taxes, passed both the House and the Senate last week. As originally introduced, the bill included the tuition costs of students in elementary and secondary schools as well. Political expediency demanded school costs be dropped from the bill, which was then passed as an amendment to a larger tax cut bill. House and Senate versions of the larger bill, though, were different. When the bill was referred back to a joint conference committee, several representatives insisted on attaching the elementary and secondary school provision to it again. An agreement could not be reached, and while the tax cut bill went on to passage, the tuition tax credit amendment to it was eliminated.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO. INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M.A. WICKER President and Treasurer
DEN 1... MILLSAPS Vice-President and Secretary

Executive ties with South Africa. But even as groups like SERJ and the 15-campus coalition of Campuses United Against Apartheid (CUAA) crank up for another year of investment protest, administration response indicates investment policies will most likely remain unchanged. UC Regents’ Treasurer Herbert Gordon acknowledges that “student concerns have gotten a lot of interest stirred up about conditions in South Africa, and that’s a good thing.” But Gordon noted “the issue doesn’t seem to have much appeal to...

Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

Several weeks have elapsed since the Y Service Corps’ Alternative Lifestyles Symposium. I have had time to reflect on something which bothered me a great deal at the time and ever since. This was the lack of participation in the Symposium. Particularly distressing was the very small number of teachers who attended the dinner, lectures, and discussions that made up the Symposium. I expected faculty members to support the Symposium the most. There are several reasons for my distress or, more properly, my anger. In my years at Davidson, I have come to feel respect and affection for a large part of our faculty. Much of this respect stemmed from the feeling that many of our teachers have seemed to me to be highly receptive to different viewpoints and lifestyles, and at times, perhaps even more so than the students. Thus I have a special affinity for our teachers. The Symposium provided a forum for ideas and perspectives not usually present at Davidson. Thus, there was a good chance for a gain in knowledge and personal growth. Just as importantly, the points of view expressed at the Symposium should have been of professional interest to the teachers. Academics is not only the imparting of knowledge, but also learning. At the Symposium, ideas were being expressed that are of great importance...to our world at this time. These are not the ramblings of some passing fad, either. The heritage of ideas expressed at the lectures and discussions is a long one in our culture. The Symposium itself is testimony to the growing numbers of people who are giving serious consideration to the ideas and values embodied in the phrase “alternative lifestyle.” We are living at a time when the dominant goals and values of Western culture—technological growth, monetary success, a self-worth defined by material possessions, and over-consumption—are being rejected by more and more of the “common people” (i.e., not hermits or Thoreaus) who are actively living in alternative manners to the goals and values previously cited. Such an occurrence should surely be worthy of interest on the part of scholars. (Or have we become so immersed in our own particular “specialties” as to lose sight of contemporary patterns in society?) Thus part of my anger stemmed from a sense of a betrayal of trust. I had trusted our teachers to receive and promote debate on new ideas and they did not. This fueled my anger in another way. Everyone knows the workload at Davidson, the amount of effort that our courses demand. Yet, the lack of participation by our teachers in a program that offered insights not (again) usually found “en masse” at Davidson caused me to feel that the pursuit of knowledge emphasized here was something of a farce. The demands and rigors placed on us seemed not only hypocritical but presumptuous. “How can they ask me to study diligently and engage in discussions after the lack of such at the Symposium by teachers?” The final part of my anger was due to the fact that Davidson and its members are supposed to be committed to a Christian way of life. At the Symposium, lifestyles were presented that seemed to be far more in keeping with the simplicity and brotherhood which Christ taught than is present in the regents. It’s not striking a responsive chord. UC Regents have indeed opposed all divestment proposals, on the premise that divestiture would be too drastic. “If the university had $800 million invested in companies which used only four million dollars. faculty? the majority of lifestyles extant in industrialized societies to- I know that several of the teachers do already incorporate aspects of alternatives in their lifestyles. But is there not more to which we may all be exposed? What is my purpose in setting all of this down? It is an admonishment to our teachers to remember the standards and expectations that they have set for themselves and for us, the students. They should not again pass up the chance to participate in a forum of ideas such as that offered by the Alternative Lifestyles Symposium. Some of them may think such an admonishment imprudent on my part. I do not mean it as such. I do mean for it to reflect the disappointment that I feel. But it is given in the spirit of respect and affection that I feel for our teachers. Education is a partnership; when one of the partners is dissatisfied, it is up to him to air those grievances. This I have done.

Anthony San Filippo '80
Davidson College

Tentative 1981 Calendar

The following calendar has been given tentative approval by the Executive Committee of the faculty. All members of the College community are asked to study this calendar and to send written comments about it to the Executive Committee by November 1, 1978. Note that the beginning of Fall classes on Wednesday is forced by the demands of registration. Also note that Saturday classes are required in Fall and Spring in order to maintain 50 class days in these terms. Please send your comments to Dr. John D. Kelton, Secretary, Executive Committee of the faculty.

FALL TERM
Orientation Begins: Sept. 6, Sat.
Courses Begin: Sept. 10, Wed.
Class Day: Sept. 18, Sat.
Courses End: Nov. 17, Mon.
Christmas Holidays Begin: Nov. 18, Tues. 5 pm
Recess: Nov. 19, Wed. - Nov. 22, Sat. 8 days
Christmas Holidays End: Dec. 1, Mon. 8 am
Courses End: Dec. 19, Fri. 16 days
Jan. 5, Mon.
Feb. 20, Fri.
Feb. 21, Sat.
Feb. 23, Mon.
Feb. 26, Thurs. 10 days
Mar. 9, Mon.
Mar. 14, Sat.
May 14, Thurs.
May 15, Fri.
May 16, Sat.
May 20, Wed.