September 8, 1978

The Davidsonian

5

Professors perform in ‘Plaza Suite’

By LYMAN COLLINS
Executive Editor

In Plaza Suite, currently being performed by the Davidson Community Players, Neil Simon presents us with three one-act plays all
revolving around the same suite in the Plaza Hotel in New York. He populates his play with typical stereotypes and
leaves it up to the actors to give life and personality to the characters.

The Community Players attack this task with enthusiasm and relish and successfully avoid pasteboard representations, ultimately achieving a fairly sophisticated,
witty comedy.

Don Lovell’s direction comes across as crisply efficient, which keeps the play moving at a good pace with only occasional
lags. He has put his actors at ease and given them the fluidity to develop. The comfortable set also gives
a sense of naturalness so that in no way do the actors seem out of place.

Scotty Nichols gives an almost desperate sarcasm to her character, Karen Nash, which is entirely appropriate to a woman whose
marriage is falling apart. She handles subtle mood shifts nicely as Karen becomes increasingly aware of the fruitlessness of her
existence.

Bo Brickles, as Sam Nash, overcomes an initial stiffness and settles wonderfully into his workaholic role. He and Nichols both
present a truly poignant portrayal in the final minutes of the scene as both characters strive for false security to
mask their overpowering insecurity.

As Jesse Kiplinger, Donald Kimmel undoubtedly looks the part of the Hollywood producer. He adequately achieves the wolfish attitude and
demeanor expected of him but somehow leaves the audience wanting a little something more out of his character.

Meg Kello is simply marvelous as Muriel Tate, the star-struck suburban housewife. Her timing on certain lines approaches brilliance and
her comic wit becomes steadily more apparent as Muriel slips into drunkenness.

But top acting honors must go to Max Polley and Susan Abbott as Roy and Norma Hubley. They complement each
other perfectly as the parents of the bride caught in an untenable situation. Polley manages to evoke pity for the
crassly materialistic hubby as he bellows through the acts.

Ultimately, the production comes off with plenty of style and polish. The three acts do seem to lack surface unity
other than the same setting, but the Community Players give the play actual unity through Lovell’s direction and the good
performances by the actors themselves.

Plaza Suite will be presented again tonight and Saturday at Hodson Hall in Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are available
for $2.50 and may be purchased at the door. Curtain time for both performances is 8:15 p.m.

Interviewed by
MERIDETH DURDEN
FEATURES EDITOR

Jake Darby is a senior music major who served as assistant director for Plaza Suite. She tried out for last
year’s college production of As You Like It to combat severe stage fright before her senior piano recital. Darby got
the lead. Here she talks about both types of Davidson theatre from on and behind stage.

Davidsonian—How did you get to be assistant director of Plaza Suite?
Darby: They just called me up. That’s the neat thing about community theatre; you just call somebody up and ask
them to help. It doesn’t work that way with Drama 21. You can ask your roommate to come paint sets
for six hours but they’ll probably say they have to study or something.

Davidsonian—What exactly does an assistant director do?
Darby: Everything. It’s a necessary job that involves so much that doesn’t get done.

Davidsonian—So you did a lot of the dirty work?
Darby: I just helped hold everybody and everything together. You need to realize you’re dealing with something very subjective. The
assistant director shouldn’t direct.

Davidsonian—Did you try to direct?
Darby: I tried to keep my mouth shut. Everyone has their opinions. I personally think that if a director wants
you to stand on your head you should. A play is good only if everyone obeys the director, even if
you don’t agree with him.

Davidsonian—Is criticism taken seriously?
Darby: I actually think the community players listened to me more. The average Davidson student actor has had lots of
experience and probably knows more than me. I’ve only acted once. I’ve worked behind stage for lots of productions.

Davidsonian—How is it different to work backstage, as opposed to acting?
Darby: Backstage work is neater. You know it’s good if people don’t notice it. Backstage workers can’t be nervous because
the actors are. Backstage people always feel that they’re holding everything together.

Davidsonian—Was it different to work with a community theatre group, rather than a college one?
Darby: The small cast certainly made a big difference. Plaza Suite involves six actors and a small dedicated back-up crew
that walks in off the street. Drama 21 has about seventy students who all participate in productions. With an intimate
group, it was easier to criticize and get things done.
