JEFFERSON CASE has had early exposure to the college classroom, but he’s getting tired of it. See story, page 3. [Gregg Strader]

Zimmermann emphasizes use of designated testing period

By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

“As far as the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) is concerned, the Devon case is closed unless Dr. Devon herself wishes to make a complaint,” said Chairman of the PAC Albert Wolf, Professor of Physics.

The College Administration decided in December not to renew the contract of Assistant Professor of Political Science and Director of South Asian Studies Tonia Devon. In recent weeks, students and faculty have expressed concern over the subjectivity of the Administration’s evaluation of Devon. Last week six students asked the PAC in a letter to conduct an “immediate and thorough investigation” of the Devon case. The PAC met Wednesday to discuss the students’ letter and the possibility of conducting an investigation. The statement released at the end of the meeting explained that the PAC could not take further action presently on the Devon case.

“This position is in accord with paragraph II of Article X of the college constitution,” said Wolf. Paragraph II of Article X concerns the reappointment of non-tenured faculty. It states “If a faculty member on proba-

By LYNN PEACE
Staff Writer

Vice-President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann stressed Friday in a memorandum to the faculty that final exams are to be given only during the designated period. All exams will be scheduled between February 27 and March 2, except in courses with “special circumstances.”

Zimmermann pointed out several “unfortunate irregularities” in scheduling during the fall examination period. Some exams were given on the last day of classes, on Reading Day, or beyond the established period. According to the memorandum, the number of professors using self-scheduled examinations varies from term to term and ranges from 54 percent to 65 percent. Zimmermann suggested if the faculty is dissatisfied with the self-scheduled exam system, the Educational Policy Committee should be asked to study examination practices and recommend a change.

Some professors do see problems in the self-scheduled examination system. First, self-scheduling pushes the honor system “to the nth degree,” according to one professor. This is due to the very nature of a ten-week term and the heavy emphasis placed upon finals. He said the honor system works well for 90 percent of the students, but indicated that it is easy for a professor to focus upon the exceptions.

A second issue is that of flexibility for the individual professor. Professor of History David G. Rice emphasized that “there need not be just one mode of test-taking.” He views the final evaluation of a course as “the business of the instructor only. He is responsible for setting the criteria, monitoring fulfillment of the criteria, and certifying that the criteria have been honestly met.”

Third, the self-scheduled examination system requires that a professor turn in a copy of his final before the course has actually ended. He is forced to anticipate how much material he will cover in the last days of class.

A fourth problem is the three-hour time limit. Not all professors desire to give a three-hour exam. Some professors have resorted to operating a modified self-scheduled system from their offices.

In comparison to other schools’ exam systems, Professor of Philosophy Lance K. Stell finds that Davidson’s system is “highly desirable” and “deserves support.” The faculty had mixed reactions to the tone of the memo. Stell found it “a good strong statement” on the necessity of following exam period guidelines. Rice, on the other hand, saw an indication of “a basic lack of understanding of human needs for flexibility for both faculty and students.” Another opinion was that the memorandum might have been “a bit more diplomatic.”tionary appointment alleges "that a decision not to reappoint him was based significantly on considerations violative of academic freedom, or considerations violative of stated policies of the college in respect of non-discrimination on the basis of race, sex, or national origin in employment practices, or personal malice, the allegation will be given preliminary consideration by the Professional Affairs Committee which will seek to settle the matter by informal methods." "The allegation," it continues, "shall be accompanied by a statement that the faculty member agrees to the presentation, for the consideration of the faculty committees, of such reasons and evidence as the [see DEVON, page 2] evaluation."

SGA voices concern over faculty evaluation

The Student Government Association (SGA) Senate this week adopted a resolution expressing its "concern about the lack of well-defined procedure and policies for faculty evaluation." The resolution, drawn up by Senior Senator David Tinkler, was passed unanimously. SGA President Thom Young will present the resolution to the Trustees at their meeting next week.

Senate Resolution

WHEREAS, recent events have revealed the deficiencies of the policies regarding the evaluation of faculty members for renewals of appointments, promotion, conferrals of tenure, and salary increases as currently practiced by Davidson College; and

WHEREAS, Section 12 of Article X of the Constitution of Davidson College places the responsibility for formulation of such policies and procedures on the President or his delegate, in conjunction with the Faculty or its Committee on Professional Affairs; and

WHEREAS, Section 12 of Article X of the Constitution of Davidson College directs the President to make recommendations on such policies and procedures to the Trustees, thus giving the Trustees ultimate authority in such matters; and

WHEREAS, several students have petitioned the Faculty’s Committee on Professional Affairs for an investigation of the Administration's decision not to renew the contract of Assistant Professor of Political Science and Director of South Asian Studies Tonia Devon;

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION SENATE that the SGA Senate expresses its concern about the lack of well-defined procedures and policies for faculty evaluation; and

The President, the Academic Vice-President, the Faculty Committee on Professional Affairs, and the Trustees, such communication being by means of a formal petition to the Trustees in accordance with Section 4 of Article XI of the Constitution of Davidson College; and

The SGA Senate urges the Committee on Professional Affairs to consider seriously the petition of the students requesting an investigation of the decision not to renew the contract of Dr. Devon.

—Pam Camerra

PCC sets waiting list policy

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

Freshmen who do not get into an eating house during the self-selection process will be placed on a separate waiting list from sophomores and juniors. Each eating house will have the option of choosing students from any of the three waiting lists.

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) decided upon this system Wednesday. PCC President Kathryn Bridges said, "this system is supposed to help the houses have more balance." She explained that if a house with some openings has a large number of sophomore members, they may opt to choose from the freshman or junior waiting lists before they would choose from the sophomore list. Bridges added, however, that "most houses will probably take mostly (rising) sophomores because they'll want people who'll be there three years."

One problem Bridges pointed out was that since there is no court-wide uniformity in the waiting list selection process, some students currently on waiting lists may not get into a house. "If a student feels he has not been treated fairly by the system, he can bring a complaint before the Council on Social Organizations," Bridges stated. A new committee will be organized in the future for students to register their complaints with.