— making the final score 34-7.

September 22, 1978

FULLBACK KEVIN ROBBINS leaps high in the air to knock down a pass intended for a Duke attacker. Unfortunately, the acrobatic play was not enough as the Cats went down 3-0 to a solid Blue Devil squad. (Gregg Strader)

Gridders face test
By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson's Wildcats evened their season record at 1-1 with a Saturday afternoon victory over Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va. The victory was a sweet one for Head Coach Ed Farrell, the staff, and the Davidson players after having dropped the season opener to Fordham. The Wildcats were leading into the fourth quarter by seven points, 14-7, before adding 20 more points in the final period.

The ’Cats went into the game without the services of four starters. Tackle Wyatt Alston and fullback Page Walley will return to the lineup for the upcoming Wofford game. Quarterback Bob McCarthy and linebacker Barry Cannon were injured in the opening game, however, and are out for the remainder of the season.

The starting quarterback Al Rhyne opened up the game with a 46-yard touchdown strike to Craig Pyles, and freshman Mike Bass converted the extra point. In the second quarter, Davidson’s John Porter returned a Washington and Lee punt for a 63-yard touchdown. The fourth period was the bragging point of the afternoon as Rhyne executed a 30-yard touchdown pass, his second of the day, to halfback Alvin Atkinson, and Bass kicked the extra point. On Davidson’s next offensive series, sophomore Billy Johnson ended a six-play, 71-yard drive with a 37-yard scamper. With a 28-7 lead, Farrell put in his reserve backfield with quarterback Brian Whitmire and fullback Ray Sinclair, both freshmen from Jacksonville, Fla. The Wildcats moved 68 yards in eight plays to pick up another touchdown as Whitmire scored on a three-yard run.

Most of the afternoon’s statistics were impressive for the ’Cats. The team amassed a total of 504 yards in the game. Rhyne completed four of nine passes for 95 yards. Whitmire sparked the final drive of the afternoon with two completions out of two passes for 44 yards. Johnson, substituting for Walley, was the leading rusher in the game with 117 yards in 16 carries. Atkinson ran 16 times for 95 yards. Pyles ran for 74 yards in 16 carries.

Another aspect of the game was impressive but in a negative way. Davidson dropped the ball eight times and lost five of those fumbles. Rhyne threw one interception. One of the punt attempts was unsuccessful, and the Cats failed to convert on a fourth and one situation at the Generals’ 16-yard line. One of the five lost fumbles was at the Washington and Lee seven and another at the 22-yard line. Farrell commented, “We've got to quit turning the ball over to the opponents. We've done it 10 times in two games.” He added, however, that fumbles were sometimes the result of extra effort and “you don’t want anybody to stop giving that.”

The Wofford Terriers are next on the list for the ’Cats. Wofford lost the opener to Appalachian, but rebounded last week with a victory over Lenoir-Rhyne. Davidson sees the Wofford game as a major test. The game will be played Saturday afternoon at 2 p.m. at Richardson Field. Chris Boslet, a defensive back, said, “Wofford is a tough opponent that will give us a chance to show ourselves and see what we are made of. We can beat them if we don’t turn the ball over.”

The Davidsonian Bow 3-0

Cats drop well-played game
By ROB GILLISON
Staff Writer

Last weekend the Davidson Wildcats’ soccer team played a strong Duke Blue Devils squad and fared better than the 3-0 score indicates. The game was primarily offense vs. defense; the Duke offense against the Davidson defense. Duke kept the ball on the Wildcat half of the field with a control-oriented style of attack. The Davidson defense did, however, rise to the occasion and none of Duke’s scores were the result of detailed offensive strategy. The first of the Blue Devils’ scores...came on a one-on-two fast break when forward Richard Murray, who played with the Jamaican national team, beat a Davidson fullback and left-footed a line drive that bounced under the outstretched arms of Wildcat goalie Mike Iordanou. The second goal came minutes later on a Blue Devil corner-kick that the Davidson defense was unable to clear. After seconds of desperate scrambling in front of the goal, the ball skidded into the corner of the net. The first half ended with Duke on top 2-0. Unfortunately, the two-goal advantage was increased to three early in the second half on a beautiful cross from Murray which was headed into the goal. The remainder of the game, Duke was content to use up the clock by moving the ball around the perimeter, just keeping the ball away from the Wildcats.

The Davidson offense was not quiet even though they failed to score. Throughout the contest, they had many opportunities and kept the fans hopeful and on their feet with a potentially explosive fast-break offense. The team plays away on Wednesday and will not have another home game until October 7th when it faces Appalachian.

Runners fare well
By JOHN DAVIS, Staff Writer

Sing, O Muse, of the glorious resurrection of our vaunted cross-country team, which triumphed so resoundingly last Saturday on the steep slopes of Mt. Stone (that Mecca of all God-fearing KAs) after five miles of deadly combat with the awesome forces of Georgia State University! Tell, Divine One, of the manifold personal bests established in that arduous conflict! Sanctify our humble effort to describe, in 160 words or less, the immortal prowess of 14 nylon short-clad warriors nobly pursuing arete at a 5:25 pace!

An invocation, although at first glance somewhat archaic, is not in this instance unwarranted, for although Troy (unscheduled in '78) was not sacked, GSU was thrashed very thoroughly indeed (20-39); and so, duly invoked, we shall get on with it.

Sophomore Bart Landess finished 26th in a field of 647 to lead the Wildcats, who were running a dual meet with GSU within the greater context of Atlanta’s annual Stone Mountain Road Race. In so doing, Landess sprinted the asphalt course in a very quick 26:04 to nip GSU’s number one runner by three seconds. Landess is pushing the team in its workouts and should provide consistent leadership in future meets. And he has very tangible support. George Strobel was 40th at 26:40, Doug Horn coming off an injury surprised everyone with a great run and was 60th, John Davis was 51st, and Bob Sweet was 61st to round out the top five. Close behind were John Hoots (71st after a fall at the starting line), Terry Morrow (72), John Rees (82), Greg Burnard (89), Vasili Carperos (99), Jim Cheek (111), Danny Armistead (112), Jeff Hamilton (119), and Andy Umhau (132). Everyone was under the 30-minute mark, and the first seven Davidson harriers were honored with highly-coveted “Stone Mountain Road Race '78” T-shirts, fetchingly designed in attractive black-on-blue.

Meanwhile, the women’s cross-country team competed for the first time this year, losing to Berry College as well as GSU. The ladies did quite well, all things considered, and senior Paula Kadison in particular showed a considerable amount of promise, running the course in 34:44 to win a medal. Susan Davidson, Sarah Todd (she’s of cake-race fame), Nancy Wright, Lisa Shingler, and Beth DuBose followed her across. Also on the team are Susan Roberts, Merideth Durden, Elizabeth Dean, and Julie Holding.

The Wildcats’ next meet is Saturday, September 23, when the team faces Berea College, Warren Wilson, and King College in Bristol, Tenn. The women host Lynchburg College at 11 am September 30.

BOUNCING BACK from a season-opening loss to Fordham, the Cats soundly defeated Washington & Lee 34-7. The Cats face a pesky Wofford team Saturday. (Kenny Connor)