The Davidsonian  
Linda Hoopes, Editor  
September 15, 1978

Zimmermann Show Opens

Mackinlay Zimmermann (yes, he's really Price’s brother) has tried many careers. From the Army, a California radio station, a Northern life insurance firm, and a manufacturing company where he resigned the position of vice-president, he returned to school as a graduate student in ceramics. Since then he has taught, presently works as a studio potter, and is now a member of the Tennessee Arts Commission and the Knoxville Arts Council.

Zimmermann believes too many artists have isolated themselves from society and are content with criticizing from a distance the poor taste prevalent in today’s world. From such an attitude, no increase in aesthetic sensitivity and certainly no improvement in taste can occur. An artist must therefore participate in society. Zimmermann’s purpose with clay is to create in the manufacture of utilitarian ware an awakening of the aesthetic tendencies latent in everyone. The artist's responsibility is to help create a new humanism and to return the meaning of art to common, everyday life.

Come meet this intriguing individual Friday afternoon at 4 p.m. in the Union Gallery and see his work which will be on display there. Refreshments will be provided.

Sports

Football:  
September 16, Washington and Lee, Away.

Soccer:  
September 16, Duke, Home, 2 p.m.  
September 20, Winthrop, Away.

Cross-Country, Men and Women:  
September 16, Stone Mountain Road Race, Ga. State, Away.

Joey Edmonds and Thom Curley will be clowning around in the 900 Room on Saturday night.

Comedians Visit 900 Room

The comedy team of Edmonds and Curley isn’t exactly a household name, but mention it to just about any college student and an immediate response registers. In the past six years, Joey Edmonds (ironically the curly-haired one) and Thom Curley have become the number one comedy team in terms of college appearances, playing some 1000 college performances in 46 states and Canada.

Campus Activities

September 15:  
Yearbook Distribution, White Meeting Room, 10-12 a.m., 2-4 p.m.  
8 & 10:30 p.m. “Goodbye Girl”, Love Auditorium. $1.25.  
Fiji Band Party with “Kentucky”, Fiji House, 9 p.m.

September 16:  
Edmonds and Curley, 900 Room (see story), 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.  
Disco, Emanon, 9 p.m.

September 18:  
Actors Contemporary Ensemble, Vanities, Hodson Hall, 7:30 p.m.

September 19:  
Worship Service, Communion led by Rush Otey, DCPC, 7 p.m.

September 20:  
Open Luncheon, 900 Room, 12:30 p.m.  
Fine Film, “Black and White in Color,” Love Auditorium, 8 p.m.

September 21:  
Disco, 900 Room, 10 p.m.

September 22:  
“Smokey and the Bandit,” Love Auditorium, 8 and 10:30 p.m. $1.25.

Next Weekend:  
Phil and Gaye Johnson, country, folk, bluegrass, and blues.

Despite concert appearances as opening acts for Melissa Manchester, B.B. King, John Denver, Harry Chapin, Billy Joel, David Bromberg, and others, the duo still opt for collegiate audiences. Together as a team for nine years, they met at the University of Wisconsin and began a high school lyceum program throughout eight states, doing 350 shows within six months. After a short time on TV with which they were not particularly pleased, their career took off when they emceed at a National Entertainment Conference convention. Since then...then they have been averaging about 165 college dates a year. The comedy of Edmonds and Curley is rooted in improvisation, incorporating sound effects, pantomime, and developing characters. Says Edmonds, “Thom is the comedian. I’m more of a comedy actor. We perform short stories by acting them out with sound effects. We don’t do political or racial sketches, so everyone understands what we're doing.” Edmonds and Curley still do not feel comfortable with club dates and television appearances. “If we could do one week in a club or one college date, we'd take the college,” says Edmonds. They will be performing in the 900 Room tomorrow night at 8:30 and 10:30. Admission is $1.00.

The 1978-79 Artists Series has an unbelievable line-up of talent in store. The season will open on October 31 with the New York City Opera Theatre’s production of Rossini’s “The Barber of Seville.” The English translation of this long-time opera favorite, performed by the touring division of the New York Opera, will be Davidson's first presentation of “live” opera. Don’t miss it!

Actress Lillian Gish will present a program on American films, featuring film clips of old movies, on January 9, 1979. Miss Gish became one of the movie industry's leading stars at a time when actresses were expected to tumble over cliffs, swim icy rivers, etc. She not only survived, she is still going strong!

On February 21, 1979, the Ballet Repertory Company of the American Ballet Theatre, co-sponsored by the Greater Charlotte Dance Guild, Inc., and Ovens Auditorium, will appear. Featuring the country’s most talented young performers, Ballet Repertory Company will present a repertory program ranging from the excitement of the classic to the best of contemporary choreography.

Lili Kraus, an internationally celebrated pianist, will be the Artist Series’s fourth performer. Her concert will take place on April 20, 1979. Season tickets will be on sale for $2.00, details in a later issue.

“VANITIES,” a three-act play about three women, will be presented Monday evening in Hodson Hall.

Vanities takes the stage

On Monday, September 18, the Contemporary Actors Ensemble brings its production of Jack Heifner’s Vanities to Hodson Hall in Cunningham-Fine Arts. Vanities focuses on three women at three critical moments in their lives: their senior year in high school, their senior year in college, and six years after graduation. It is particularly relevant for college audiences facing similar choices.

According to Professor of Drama Rupert Barber, the Contemporary Actors Ensemble is “one of the better new acting groups in the Charlotte area.” Vanities originally opened off-Broadway in March 1976 and subsequently moved to Broadway where it is still running. Actress Susan Mercer, who visited Davidson last winter, performed in Vanities immediately prior to her Davidson visit. The CAE production is the first North Carolina production of this play. Tickets cost $1.50 for students and $2.50 general admission and go on sale Monday. Reservations are advised and may be made at the box office in Hodson Hall (ext. 340) between the hours of 2 and 5 pm Monday afternoon.