January 27, 1978 The Davidsonian

Cagers’ rally fails
By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

Davidson awoke from a listless performance midway through the second half and made a run at William and Mary only to fall short from missed opportunities in a 65-56 loss last night in Charlotte.

Davidson had managed but 37 points and trailed 47-37 with 9:06 remaining in the game when the Cats suddenly came alive. Davidson cut the William and Mary lead to two, 52-50, with 5:14 to play as John Gerdy scored from 17 feet. The Cats came down the court three times with the opportunity to tie the game at 52, but failed each time. Coach Kochan recalled, “We were down by two, and tried to get a time out the first time down the court, but couldn’t get it. We did the second time down. We set a play up. We tried to get it to Gerdy on a double pick. It just didn’t materialize.” Kochan further remarked, “That bucket meant so much. It would have let us sit back in the zone. But we never got it.”

Davidson could get no closer than five points of William and Mary for the rest of the game. William and Mary’s head coach, John Parkhill, commented, “If I had to consider one play a key play that would be it.” Coach Kochan said about the game, “Our 1-3-1 trap defense worked until we got tired. We missed key shots three separate times. They were good shots. We just didn’t hit them.”

“We just didn’t have enough to come back. William and Mary did the right things. We did the right things to come back, but they just didn’t work. We just couldn’t convert. The difference was that we shot 12 for 21 at the free throw line (5 for 13 in the first half). We didn’t shoot well overall, and we had 17 turnovers.”

Parkhill said of his team, “We can't just show up and overpower people. We don’t blow anybody out. We can’t overpower people. We have to have great intensity.” About William and Mary’s defense, Parkhill said, “We ran a deny defense on Chris (Dodds) and John (Gerdy), with our other guys supportive. We ran another defense, a camouflage defense, which looked like a zone but still keyed on them. If they got it going, we knew we'd be in trouble.”

Kochan, thinking back on the game, said, “Let me say on the positive side that between Richie (DiBenedetto) and Todd (Haynes) they had 20 rebounds. Chris Dodds played a super game. He took charge defensively and calling signals.” Dodds also had a good game offensively, leading Davidson with 17 points, hitting 8 of 17 from the field.

The story of the game for Davidson was John Gerdy, though. Gerdy was held to thirteen points and for the second straight game took only thirteen shots—seven below his average. Coach Kochan commented on teams keying on Gerdy and Dodds, “It’s obvious when you pick up our stats that teams will give more attention to John and Chris.”

“John moves well without the ball. We set a pick and he jumps back. It’s not how many shots Gerdy shoots. It’s how many good scoring opportunities he gets. John could take the 25-footer anytime, but from 15 feet John Gerdy is an 80 percent shooter.”

“They overplayed on defense. But we ran our offense. We didn’t have to change one thing. We just didn’t hit the key shots.”

Kochan said about the Cats' upcoming game against Dartmouth, “Our next game is important. It’s on the road. They’re not the best team, but they run patterns well. They’ll be tough to beat.”

Lady Cats destroy Furman
By SHAUGHNESSY
Staff Writer

On January 10, Davidson's Lady Wildcats thoroughly mauled a strong Furman team 67-52. The Lady Cats, finally not playing against a team of taller and wider women, outclassed and out-played the Paladins. The improving Cats were led by the outside scoring of Sarah Womack (19 points), the inside play of Cindy Morrison (12 points and 9 rebounds) and Donna Ferren (12 points and 12 rebounds). Although recovering from an ankle injury, Beth Tanner still managed 8 points and 5 assists and displayed her famed quickness with 4 steals. Co-captain Sally Bondurant contributed to the victory as she scored 7 points and crashed the boards for 9 rebounds. Penny Keels and Beth Tanner completed the scoring with 5 and 3 points respectively.

Coming off this inspiring victory, the ladies dropped a close one to a very physical UNCC team by a score of 60-58. Davidson struggled gallantly but came up a basket short at the buzzer. A superb defensive effort by Morrison andGood offensive performances by Tanner (18 points), Womack (16 points), and Ferren (12 points) produced an early lead, but the size of UNCC eventually countered Davidson's speed and desire. The next home game is February 5 against Western Carolina at 7 pm in Johnston Gym.

Swimmers Beaten
By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Swim Team suffered their first defeats of the season at the hands of two powerful squads, Madison and William and Mary. Both teams proved too much for the Wildcats in terms of both strength and depth. There was some consolation in this past weekend’s trip to Virginia, as Davidson did manage a solid victory over VMI.

After traveling seven hours through ice and snow, the team arrived in Harrisonburg, Va. at 2:00 Friday morning. The tri-meet, which was held at Madison’s sports complex, included VMI. The scoring between Madison and Davidson was very close through the first half of the meet, and it was only in the last four or five events that Madison pulled away. Davidson lost to Madison by 69-44. The Cats did well against VMI with a 76-37 victory over the Keydets.

On Saturday afternoon, the Cats went up against an undefeated William and Mary club. The William and Mary team dominated all phases of the meet, but the tankers continued to swim hard in the face of the impending defeats. William and Mary won the meet by a 78-35 score.

In spite of the losses, there was some consolation to be gained. Race times dropped considerably from last week’s performance against Furman. Coach Pat Miller commented on the trip by citing Madison and William and Mary as “better teams than us who just outswam us. Times are improving although there are still some things that need to be worked on in preparation for this weekend's meets.”

The Cats travel to Georgia this Friday to face Ga. State and a strong Ga. Tech team. On Saturday, the team will be in Augusta, Ga. for a meet against Augusta College.

Owens Transfers to Siena
By MIKE BRITT
Asst. Sports Editor

Rod Owens, the first player signed by former Coach Dave Pritchett, announced Tuesday that he would leave Davidson to transfer to Siena College in Loudonville, N.Y. When asked about leaving, the 6’5” power forward said, “I have been considering this for some time. My decision is based on the feeling that I will play more at Siena. The recent events surrounding the coaching situation had no bearing on my decision.”

As the second leading scorer on the team last year, Rod averaged 10.7 points and 38.2 minutes playing time per game. Those figures, however, dropped to 4.2 points and 13.6 minutes playing time per game this year. Owen’s best games as a Wildcat came against Colgate College this year (22 points) and against Appalachian St. in the Southern Conference tournament last year (21 points). In that game, he set a school record by hitting 10 of 11 field goal attempts.

Asked to comment on Owen’s departure, Coach John Kochan said, “The loss of Rod Owens, of course, is a blow to our program. Because of the type of individual he is, he was a contributing factor, a leader, and, at all times, concerned about the success of our team. We wish him all the success in the world.”

Owens added, “I feel that the change I am making will be beneficial for all concerned...the coaches here and for my personal happiness. Leaving is difficult because of the people and friends, and the type of atmosphere that Davidson expresses.”

Siena is located near Owens’ hometown of Troy, N.Y. They compete in the East Coast Athletic Conference of the NCAA.

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls) on the coast of North Carolina. The camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus all usual camping activities including swimming and a wide variety of major sports. June 6 - August 18, available for graduates and undergraduates who are LOOKING FOR MORE than just another summer job. Openings for graduate nurses and Camp Seafarer. Qualifications include excellent character references, ability to instruct in one phase of the camp's program, and a genuine interest in working with young people. Good salary; food and lodging furnished; plus the opportunity of sharing in a highly purposeful and challenging experience. Quick answer upon receipt of letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in the area(s) you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Camp Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina 27605.