The Davidsonian

February 24, 1978

663-5515

206 N. Main—Mooresville
(Across From Belk)

"Your Complete Casual Wear Store"

Final Clearance

Our Biggest Sale Of The Year!
Starts Wed., Feb. 22 9:30 A.M.

Thru Sat., Feb. 25 — 5:30 P.M.

ALL LADIES & MENS

Denim & Khaki... $12

SPECIAL GROUP BY MALE

Corduroys........ 1/2 Price

LADIES
BUY ONE GET ONE

Tops... Free

MENS Reg. $39.95 COATS

Sport Coats... 34% Off

ENTIRE STOCK MENS

Suits... 50% Off

Corduroy And Denim.

With Any Purchase

Pair Of Levi's Limited

Buy Any Pair

PANTS

In Our Store
Pants By Levi, Male, Faded Glory

BELTS

MEN AND WOMEN

JACKETS
T-SHIRTS

SHIRTS Reg. $14.95... $10
CORDUROYS $11

SWEATERS 1/2 Price
DRESSES 1/4 Off

MEN AND WOMEN
Up To 1/2 Off
2 PC.

Vested Sets 1/2 Price

SHOES 1/2 Price
Denim & Khaki $12

LADIES

BOOTS $24

MENS 3 PC.

SUITS $44

Accessories 1/2 Price

$12 Less

Senior guard BETH TANNER drives down the lane hard for 2 pts. against Duke. The Lady Cattes won the game
in the closing seconds to end the season on a positive note.

[Phil Howerton]

Cattes win finale

By BOB PERZ
Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team finished the season with a 62-61 win over Duke last Monday, bringing their final record to
5-13.

The Wildcattes jumped out to a quick lead 15-7, owing mainly to the play of Nancy Brown. Brown, starting her
first game of the year, played a tough offensive game at the start, and scored her evening’s total of 5
points in the first four minutes.

The Blue Devils managed to tie the score late in the first half and go ahead by one at the
half, 30-29.

Duke came out at the second half ready to play, but two steals by the Davidson women and two quick
buckets put the Lady Cattes ahead, 33-29.

Davidson and Duke exchanged leads many times during the second half, and it was the consistent shooting of Donna Ferren
who had 12 points for the night and Sarah Womack who finished with 10 that kept the Cattes in the
game.

Both the defensive and offensive boards were controlled by Cindy Morrison (15 points) who hauled down 13 rebounds in the
game, and Womack who grabbed 12. The offensive rebounding by Morrison enabled the Cattes to convert many missed shots into
buckets.

The big difference in the game was the number of fouls on each team. Duke drew a total of 29
fouls, while Davidson had only 15. This showed up in the free-throw department, with Duke getting only 8 free-throws all
night, while the Wildcattes were at the charity line 31 times.

The game was finally won by Davidson in a dramatic finish with only six seconds left in the game and
the score tied 61-61. Co-captain Beth Tanner drew a foul while she drove the lane and was awarded two shots.

Tanner, who had 18 points for the night, stepped to the line and missed the first shot.

Thinking back on the tense moment after the game Tanner said, “When the first shot missed, I knew the second
was in.” It was; and the women came away ending the season on a victorious note.

Last Saturday, in Greenville, S.C., the women also had a game that was decided in the last six seconds, but
this time they weren’t so lucky, and Furman came away with the victory, 64-62.

The Lady Cattes had beaten Furman earlier in the year by 17 points, and started off like they might do
it again. However, the Paladins came on strong in the second part of the first half and led by 11
at the intermission.

The women came back in the second half, due to fine defensive play by Anna Hutchinson and Morrison, who denied
Furman when the going was tough. The offensive end was picked up by Womack, Ferren, and Tanner, who had 18,
16, and 16 points, respectively. Ferren also played tough on defense, coming up with steals when they were most needed.

The women will be losing three people next year with the graduation of Sally Bondurant, Tanner, and Brown. The shoes
of Bondurant and Tanner will be the hardest to fill, as a point guard who can run the offense will
be sorely needed. The women could also use some height in the form of newcomers, as they were consistently dwarfed
on the court by many taller teams.

Tanner summed up the season by saying, “The offense worked well this year, with the plays run consistently and with
more confidence than in the past. It was necessary to move the ball quickly around the perimeter to get the
outside shot because of the height disadvantage in the middle.”

Next year the Wildcattes should have a fine showing with the return of starters Morrison, Ferren, and Womack. In order
to be a contender, however, their first order of business will be to find a good point guard and a
tall center.
