The Davidsonian
March 24, 1978

Netters off to a flying start
By DAVID REICH
Staff Writer

Davidson’s tennis team opened its season during spring break and is off to what coach Jeff Frank terms “a great
start.” Frank’s optimism is justified, for Davidson's 7-2 record includes wins over Penn State and Swarthmore, whom the Wildcat netters
had not defeated in four years. These two victories also indicate a promising outlook for the season since Davidson defeated
both of these teams through aggressive singles matches 3-3.

Davidson’s recent match with powerful North Carolina is another basis for Frank’s optimism. Although the Wildcat netters lost to Carolina
8-1, several singles matches were close and Davidson won its first individual match against Carolina under the direction of Jeff
Frank. Harry Griffith captured the lone victory, defeating Cliff Skakle 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 at the number three singles spot.

Looking ahead towards the Southern Conference confrontations, Frank sees U.T.C., Furman, and Appalachian as the teams to beat. Jeff possesses
unusual groundstrokes which constantly befuddle his opponents. His ever-improving play is important if the team is to continue their winning
ways.

Track team tallies two straight
By JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

The Davidson track team chalked up its second win of the season without a loss on Tuesday by defeating undermanned
High Point College 92-53. The Wildcats displayed great depth in the weights and sprints, sweeping the discus and shot as
well as the 100 and 200.

Sophomore Phil Gilbert enjoyed a superb day by winning three individual events (100, 200, and long jump) and running a
leg of the victorious 400 relay team. Other highlights included Coty Pinckney’s school record time of 16:16 in the 5000,
Carl MacPhail’s 15½ points in five separate events, and freshman Dick Jones’ narrow win over High Point’s Bill McCown in
the 110 meter high hurdles.

The most startling performance of the day, though, was undoubtedly senior Steve Justus’ astonishing triumph in the 400. Justus, who
joined the team a few hours before the meet began, had not run extensively since his final flickerball outing sometime
back in October. He nevertheless managed to electrify the crowd by surging to a decisive lead in the first 200
meters and holding on down the home stretch to win in 51.6.

Davidson had defeated stubborn Washington and Lee in its opening meet on the previous Saturday. The contest was extremely close,
but Pinckney’s business-like victory in the 3-mile in 15:06 clinched the win, and the Wildcats eventually won, 73-72. Doug Horn’s
double victory (mile and 880) was noteworthy, but the day was primarily a showcase for the versatile talent of MacPhail,
certainly one of the school’s finest all-round athletes. The 5’11” junior took first in the intermediate hurdles, second in the
high hurdles, the high jump, and the triple jump, and ran on both the 440 and mile relay teams.

Coach Karl Kremser is optimistic about his team’s future. The formidable Jarry Taylor (hammer throw) heads an emerging weight corps,
Gilbert and others continue to show promise, and the team looks forward to a successful season.beat. Fortunately, Davidson has the
advantage of playing Appalachian and Furman at home. Although Davidson has already lost an early match to U.T.C., Frank feels
the loss "may prove to be advantageous because we now know exactly how hard we have to work." Needless to
say, Frank is extremely pleased with the team’s play. At number one singles, Mike Barnhill has a 5-4 record with
only three matches being played on his stronger surface, clay. Chip Bondurant is tremendously solid at the number two singles
spot with an 8-1 record. At the number three spot, Griffith has gained several important wins while building a 7-2
record. At number four singles, Jeff Lyle boasts a successful 6-2 record. John Trout at number five singles has a
5-2 record, while Brian Cooper and Steve Holman, alternating at number six, are both winning consistently. Frank describes his present
position as "being plagued with the pleasant dilemma of having at least ten solid people I can confidently put in
the singles lineup." Frank is also impressed with the doubles play of Bondurant and Jay Gepfert at number one, Barnhill
and Gil Kayton at number two, and Lyle and Rick Johnston at number three. He feels strong doubles play is
the key to winning close matches, and he adds, "I have tremendous confidence in all our doubles this year."

Frank credits this early success to the hard work the team has put in since September. He states, "I have
never worked with a team who have worked any harder, and with less urging on my part, and I am
really pleased that this hard work is paying off already. Each day our players grow even more confident, and if
we continue to work hard through the conference championship, this may be one of the most successful seasons in recent
Davidson tennis."

Terrazzo Wallace leads the sprinters, Pinckney and Horn provide solidarity in the distance events, and the ever-present MacPhail handles almost
everything else. An intriguing possibility is Jones, who was nationally ranked in the hurdles in high school and has immense
potential. With a few more weeks of training, the Wildcats could become a very respectable team. Davidson next opposes Lynchburg
College in a home meet on Saturday, March 25, with the field events beginning at 11:00 am. Anyone interested in
judging or timing is invited to come out and lend a hand.

NEWCOMER Terrazzo Wallace is a versatile athlete who broad jumps and runs sprints for the undefeated Davidson track team. [Gregg
Strader]

SOPHOMORE Harry Griffith is currently playing number three for the Cats and has only two losses so far. One of
his eight wins includes an impressive victory over Cliff Skakle of highly ranked North Carolina.

STEEPLECHASER Jeff Morrow plunges into the water pit against High Point during Tuesday’s meet. The Cats prevailed by a lopsided
93-52 score. [Gregg Strader]

the WORLD FAMOUS ORIGINAL PIZZA
LASAGNE
RAVIOLI
VEAL SCALLOPINE
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
STEAKS and CHOICE WINES & BEERS
[Gregg Strader]
