iG LAAVALOU II Faculty Guest Column

‘We’ve met the enemy and they is us’

By ERNEST F. PATTERSON
Professor of Economics

In recent years any ordinary speaker can gain the plaudits of any audience by blaming “the government” for any and all ills of the body politic, and anyone can, and does, get elected to public office solely on his promise to “reform” the government. These results are possible apart from the people, or as a collection of politicians and bureaucrats, who, on their own initiative, conceive and institute schemes and laws that interfere with the beneficent ends of “free private enterprise,” or thrust monopoly, or some other special privilege, on unwilling and resisting citizens.

This view is almost universal, but is nowhere more clearly and openly stated, or more completely accepted and consistently followed, than among the persons who wrote the truly incredible, The Incredible Bread Machine. In this book everything “good” in United States history is accomplished by “free private enterprise,” unaided by government; everything “bad” occurs because of gratuitous government action and interference. They even blame slavery in the United States on the government, writing that “... When 20 Africans were first brought to the United States to ‘help relieve Jamestown’s labor shortage,’ they were eventually freed. Yet, years later the House of Burgesses enacted legislation that made all future slaves, slaves forever.”

One person who understood clearer than most the real, true situation in this matter was Lincoln Steffens. He built a great reputation for exposing political corruption in the period in United States history called “the Gilded Age” by Mark Twain and “The Great Barbecue” by Vernon Louis Parrington. The real cause of political corruption is revealed by Steffens in his Autobiography where he records telling an audience of businessmen in Los Angeles that “you cannot build or operate a railroad or a street railway, gas, water, or power company, develop and operate a mine, or get forests and cut timber on a large scale, or run any privileged business without corrupting, or joining in the corruption, of government. You tell me privately that you must, and here I am telling you semi-publicly that you must. And that is all over the country.”

Although in that same speech Steffens advocated abolishing “privileges,” the only commodity that politicians and bureaucrats had, or have, to sell, he did not identify the special, and single, institution that underlaid, and underlies, the “privileges,” i.e., private property. In fact, there is no entry for “property,” private or otherwise, in the index of Steffens’ Autobiography.

(In over 20 years at Davidson, I have yet to encounter a student who has read The Autobiography of Lincoln Steffens. For some reason, which I cannot remember, I had read it before I entered Southwest Texas Teachers College, which may explain, in part, why, in my first Political Science class when the professor asked, “Who owns Texas?” expecting the answer to be, “the people,” I answered, “Texas Gulf Sulphur Company, Humble Oil and Refining Company, and Texas Power and Light.”)

Since the era of “The Great Barbecue,” most of the property, tangible and intangible, has been concentrated in the hands of a tiny percentage of the population, puerile propaganda about “people’s capitalism” to the contrary notwithstanding. The major function of the government today is, therefore, not to sell the usufruct of “natural resources” and other privileges, but is to protect property, to prevent any vertical redistribution, and to ensure that a “fair share” of the annual product continues to accrue to the present property owners, especially the owners of intangible property. (For the best account of the nature and importance of intangible property, see David Bazelon, The Paper Economy.)

The means for accomplishing the above responsibilities of the government have been institutionalized long enough to be almost universally accepted as God’s plan for the world, and they function automatically. As Veblen noted many years ago: “all those

Letter to the Editor

Christian ideals still solid

To the Editor:

In his discussion of the proposed Faculty Code of Evaluation, SGA President Bruce Brown seemed to be fulfilling his function as the mouthpiece of the student body by restating, without carefully evaluating, a popular position on Davidson's Christian commitment: i.e., Davidson’s commitment to its Christian heritage is an outdated, “frank confession of weakness.” Such a superficial analysis of the issue is not acceptable coming from any Davidson student. In the first place, every college decides to promote certain ideals and produce certain types of graduates. It is impossibleFor a college not to do this signifies a lack of decision has its own ramifications. Just as it strives for academic excellence, Davidson remains dedicated to its Christian heritage. Certainly, "institutional insecurity contributes nothing to Christian commitment," and the one thing that Davidson does not have is "institutional insecurity." An insecure institution is one that cannot decide what it is trying to do. Our college has been unusually effective in maintaining a campus that encourages "Christian commitment." Just as Davidson requires academic qualifications from its faculty, it demands a willingness to help maintain its environment. Granted, "Christianity best defends itself in an open and accessible forum—not in isolation," but progress comes in a situation that promotes Christianity. Christians should be careful that they are not harboring martyr complexes in the desire to be open-minded. The College should not be interested in exclusivity but should be moving toward its goal of better Christian understanding. The refusal to hire a professor with ideals contrary to that goal is as legitimate as trying to set any kind of academic standards for faculty. "The rich diversity which debate (alone) can foster" is minimal; there must be direction to that debate and that is what Davidson must offer.

"Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth and would set no limits to the adventure of the mind." This line from the Statement of Purpose demonstrates the responsibility of Davidson to always encourage free and fruitful use of the intellect in the quest for a better understanding of Christianity. Christian tenure is not the close-minded Bob Jonesian policy which it has been depicted as being. On the contrary, it calls for students to incorporate all ideas, Christian, anti-Christian, and non-Christian into church doctrine. This is a much more difficult task for the student to perform than the easy dismissal of ideas thrown out by professors who do not share a Christian commitment. We have a lot going for us here at Davidson; let’s don’t blow it.

Steve Austin ’81
Davidson College

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will be considered for publication in that week’s issue.

A survey at the U. of New Mexico shows that almost half of the 210 students polled are daily readers of the student newspaper, the LOBO. Administered by the University’s Office of Research and Consumer Affairs, the survey also reported that 92 percent of the students read the LOBO at least once a week. Editorials and opinion headed the list of most interesting topics to students, followed by world news. Local news, arts, and cartoons were next in order; sports news ranked near the bottom. Most respondents said the purpose of the student newspaper was "to keep persons informed of current events." Reporting of campus-related news was the next given purpose. One student took a more utilitarian approach when he said that the purpose of the LOBO was to "provide a liner for cat litter boxes."