ORF a The Davidsonian

Continued from page 1

Zimmermann in early December. At that meeting her contract renewal was discussed. She was not aware this was to be
the subject of the meeting and felt she did not have ample warning to prepare materials to defend her teaching
and programs. The College Constitution states that “The faculty member will be advised of the time when decisions, affecting renewals
or tenure are ordinarily made and will be given the opportunity to submit material which he believes will be helpful
in an adequate circumstance.”

Devon appealed to the Professional Affairs Committee of the faculty (PAC). The PAC upheld her point and instructed Zimmermann to
conduct a second evaluation meeting with Devon.

That second evaluation meeting with Zimmermann (on December 13) was, according to Devon, “Nothing but pleasant. There were no indications
whatsoever that the Administration was displeased with my teachings or the South Asian Studies Program.” She received a letter Thursday,
December 15, informing her that her contract would not be renewed.

Devon pointed out that the Administration had never communicated anything negative to her, never warned her of possible dismissal. She
had received a one-year contract last year as well as a “substantial” raise. The raise, she explained, included not only
the minimum 6 percent increase but an additional increase which she interpreted as a “merit” increase.

Zimmermann has stressed the evaluative role of senior faculty members as well as students in the renewal of contracts. The
Davidsonian has learned that at least 3 senior faculty members who are closely associated with Devon and two students gave
her positive recommendations. The Administration explained that the comments gathered in the evaluations process are confidential and said they could
not comment on the number of students and faculty members that were interviewed, nor could they estimate the weight placed
on the recommendations of faculty and students in the Devon evaluation.

Both Spencer and Zimmermann agreed that the current evaluation procedure is somewhat lacking. “In a meeting with non-tenured faculty members
in the fall, there was general agreement that the procedures for contract renewal allowed to date, have not been adequate,”
said Zimmermann. He and Spencer concur that a “more thorough going evaluation” and more specific guidelines are needed.

“We are currently working with the Professional Affairs Committee on revising this whole procedure in an attempt to put it
in a codified form as the constitution calls for,” said Zimmermann.

In regard to the status of the South Asian Studies Program, Spencer said that the program would be maintained as
it is and a new director will be hired, unless the faculty votes to change the program.

Although the terms of the contract allow her to remain at Davidson for another year, Devon said she is not
sure what she will do. “Senior South Asian political scientists at other major universities, as well as Davidson colleagues, are
angered and shocked by this action and have encouraged me to do something. I have not yet made a decision
as to what I will do,” Devon concluded.

Students meet with Spencer to discuss Devon’s case

By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

Students met with College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. and Vice President of Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann Wednesday to
express their concern over the circumstances surrounding the termination of the contract of Tonia Devon, Assistant Professor of Political Science
and Director of the South Asian Studies Program.

The Davidsonian spoke with that group of students (Dave Barnard, Harry Greyard, Peggy Noel, Ellen Ogilvie, Maria Patterson, and Sam
Weir) after their meeting with Spencer and Zimmermann. The group believes that the Devon case has “serious implications” for the
College, and they wanted to make the administration aware of how some students and faculty members perceive the situation.

Ellen Ogilvie, a religion major who took South Asian Civilization with Devon last fall, expressed particular concern with the manner
in which student evaluations were handled. She explained thatZimmermann had called her to his office before Christmas without stating the
reason for the meeting. At that time, she was asked general questions concerning her courses and professors. “Zimmermann spent about
one fourth of the meeting discussing Devon,” Ogilvie said. “I didn't know what the meeting was for. It seemed casual
and I got the impression he just wanted to get to know the faculty and students better.”

Ogilvie discovered after the Christmas break that Devon's contract had been terminated. She asked Zimmermann at Wednesday's meeting if her
remarks had a bearing on Devon's evaluation. He replied that they had, she stated.

“I feel I was deceived. I don't like the idea of my opinions being used without my permission. I think
it was Zimmermann’s duty as Vice President of Academic Affairs to tell me in our first meeting that he was
soliciting my opinions to use in evaluations for renewal of contracts,” Ogilvie asserted. Ogilvie said she would have been much
more specific in her comments had she known she was evaluating a faculty member. Both Ogilvie and Peggy Noel, who
was also interviewed by Zimmermann concerning her courses and professors, were enthusiastic in their response to Devon. “She's different, a
more casual professor. Hers was by far the best survey course I’ve had,” said Ogilvie.

The group explained that Spencer and Zimmermann told them in Wednesday's meeting that the Administration could not talk about the
specifics of the Devon case because of the confidentiality of the evaluations and records. Spencer acknowledged, said one of the
students, that when he made his decision in the Devon case, he (Spencer) realized there could be some criticism and
he would have to take some “flack.”

Harry Greyard, another student at Wednesday’s meeting, said, “I am still concerned about the implications of this thing. I can
appreciate Dr. Spencer's inability to talk about the facts of any situation involving an employee-employer relationship. However,” he continued, “there
is an appearance of unethical conduct in the way student recommendations were received; there is an appearance of personal vendetta;
there is an appearance of gross incompetence on the part of the administration. Dr. Spencer cannot wish these charges away
simply by saying, ‘I have to take the flack.’”

Greyard compared this incident to last spring’s Linden affair and said it is hurting the “good name” of Davidson. “I
am concerned that the school, and certainly the reputation of Dr. Devon, are facing a serious situation. After meeting with
Spencer, I don't believe the Administration shares my concern.”

Ogilvie hopes that students will remain interested in the case and push for a more specific evaluation procedure. “We want
to prevent cases like this from happening in the future,” she said.

---

Rice turns in resignation
By PAM CAMERRA
News Editor

Professor of History David G. Rice resigned from the faculty shortly before the Christmas holidays. Rice will continue to teach
until June. Citing his reasons for leaving, Rice, who joined the Davidson staff last fall, said, “I was never pleased
with the situation regarding religious requirements for tenure and I have not been impressed by the decisions made by the
Board of Trustees in October nor by the support given to those decisions by the Administration.”

Rice elaborated further. “I am not pleased by the non-renewal of Professor Devon's contract, not that I can know about
the stance of that issue—but I am not pleased by the procedure.” Generally, Rice says that Davidson has not offered
him sufficient flexibility in terms of teaching. Rice taught at Williams for six years before coming to Davidson. He had
planned to go to business school after leaving Williams but was offered the job here and accepted it.

“It seemed to me an interesting possibility to teach in the South, particularly in light of Carter’s election. I foresaw
the possibility of a New South. I was looking for a challenge and hoping something positive would happen. It didn’t.”

Rice found the students here “very docile.” He said, “They are intelligent and hard working. They're quiet and very respectful,
which is very nice. I think though, that they should take a little more initiative in their education.” Rice said
that he has no job prospects for the future. He doubts that he will be able to find a teaching
position because of the job market. “I like to teach very much but it’s the way of the world and
there's no sense getting depressed about it.”
