- December 8, 1978 The Davidsonian

THE LONE combatant: Kim.

Quips & Cranks: Three groups fight for annual editorship

By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

The teams of Diane Odom and Lucy Phillips, Lisa Brown and Martha MacGill, and Huk Kim, who is running individually, will give voters three possibilities in next week’s election of editor(s) of Davidson’s yearbook Quips and Cranks. In other publications races, however, Sue Dehoney and Merideth Durden have no opponents for Miscellany co-editors, and Taine Alison and Andy Miller are running uncontested for co-editorship of the Wildcat Handbook.

Brown, a sophomore, and MacGill, a junior, are running because, “We think we will enjoy putting a yearbook together and also think the yearbook will be a good medium for us to serve the College community.” Brown said, “We have a great deal of experience, love of our work, and... because we are not in the same class, a broader perspective on Davidson. We hope to greatly improve the photography, include more copy, and include a wider variety of pictures. We will try to increase sales, and improve the unity of the yearbook staff. We will take ideas and input.”

Two teams line up for Advisor position

By MIKE COOPER
Staff Writer

Anne Eglin and John Willingham, and Mike McGrady and Bunny Horine are the two pairs of Hall Advisors vying for the position of Freshman Advisor in next Tuesday’s election. Freshman Advisors must work with the Dean of Students Office in helping to select and train Hall Advisors, communicate with incoming freshmen during the summer, work with Hall Advisors through the year, and coordinate the Freshman Hall Council.

According to Horine, “The present program will continue if we're elected.” Horine and McGrady intend to add to the program such things as a new emphasis on community interaction, a revision of the orientation schedule to allow freshmen some relief in the normally hectic first week, possible extension of the Big Sister program to include the whole year, and possibly the creation of a similar program for freshmen men. This “Big Brother” program is also a plank in the platform of Eglin and Willingham who wish to “provide all freshmen the opportunity to meet upperclassmen.”

Another goal held in common by both teams of candidates is the institution of a correspondence program in which incoming freshmen receive letters from upperclassmen as a further introduction to Davidson. “This program would provide freshmen the chance to get answers to particular questions about Davidson,” said Eglin and Willingham.

In order to make the Freshman Hall Council more responsive to the needs of the freshmen, Eglin and Willingham suggest, “having each hall elect two representatives to the council and having the upperclassmen on the council assume an advisory position.”

Both pairs of candidates desire to work more closely with the freshmen, particularly by spending more time on the freshman halls. When asked why they were seeking this position, Eglin and Willingham responded, “Through our experiences as Hall Advisors, we have been reminded of some facets of freshman life which can be improved. We are aware of the responsibilities associated with the position of Freshman Advisor and have discussed them, as well as our plans, with the Dean of Students Office and the current Freshman Advisors,” they added.

Said McGrady and Horine, “We are excited about the prospect of...”Taking on the job of Freshman Advisor because we believe in the Hall Advisor system as it stands. We would like to accentuate some of the subtleties of the freshman year which we feel could be meaningful.

A Bigger Slice of the (Continued from page 1) other budgetary category. In comparison with other colleges in our AAUP category, Davidson has declined slightly in some areas and maintained its position in others. Apart from a strong effort to bring up faculty salaries, we cannot continue to recruit the very best. If we could show that Davidson is unusually distinguished in salary, we could become more competitive in acquiring and keeping good scholars.

The Finance, Personnel, and Development Advisory Council, composed of faculty and students, received very few suggestions for the budget at its October open end, said Chairman Thomas O. Pinkerton. Only one professor and three students showed up. Last year we got almost everything we recommended. The library budget was expanded and the faculty was given more liberal travel allowances than we had asked for. We batted about 1000 last year.

MacGill commented, “Our biggest asset is experience.” MacGill has six years of experience, and McGrady has three years. Both have been working on the Quips and Cranks staff since their freshman years. MacGill is planning on taking a college course in photography this summer in order to increase her knowledge of that field. Kim, a junior, wishes to be yearbook editor because, “I feel that my knowledge of photography would be very instrumental in putting a good yearbook together. I have been in photography since my freshman year at Davidson. I was a staff photographer for the Update.”

“A yearbook is essentially pictures, although these pictures should combine to form a coherent theme. I plan to work on having very good and imaginative photography in Quips and Cranks, and to ensure that this photography tells a story. I plan to work hard to make Quips and Cranks a yearbook of good quality, and one that clearly reflects the character of next year’s college community, particularly the senior class.”

Odom and Phillips, both of whom are freshmen, point to their enjoyment of yearbook work and experience as factors in their decision to run. Phillips said, “We hope to improve Quips and Cranks quite a bit, and employ many new ideas in its composition. We plan to include more copy, to try to put the staff in good communication with itself and to begin work earlier in the year.” Odom added, “Above all, we want to make the yearbook not a picture book, but an artistic one.”

Odom spent three years on her high school yearbook staff, the last as editor-in-chief. Phillips worked two years for her high school yearbook, and was co-editor-in-chief during her senior year. Both are staff members of this year’s Quips and Cranks. The two said they are running as freshmen because, “Enough changes can’t be made in only one year and we have many new ideas which we would like to institute right away.”