October 27, 1978

10-year mark falls, Walley

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Sports Editor

By gaining 45 yards last week against Hampden-Sydney, senior fullback Page Walley eclipsed the Davidson career rushing record of 1378 yards established by Kerry Keith during the 1966-1968 seasons. Walley, a psychology major from La Grange, Tennessee, decided to come to Davidson after a severe knee injury which destroyed any hopes of playing for a more established team. Several impressive scholarship offers to play at Southeastern Conference schools were rescinded following the blow to his knee. However, Walley decided soon after the accident that “he wanted to come to a good academic school.” Hearing of Davidson through friends of the family, Walley became very interested and decided to come since it was the only sure scholarship available.

Walley’s history of athletic success in high school often caused second thoughts throughout his career for the Wildcats. “I can’t help but always wish that I had played at a big school. It’s only natural. I guess I just wonder if I could have done it.” In spite of his fantasizing, Walley seems to be very content with his decision to come to Davidson. “The demanding combination of academics and football has given me enough confidence to do anything. Perhaps it wouldn’t be like this at a bigger school.”

A hard worker both on and off the field, Walley receives high accolades from both players and coaches. Head Coach Ed Farrell praises Walley by calling him “a very complete football player at our level of play. Page contributes in many areas in which the average fan wouldn’t be aware of. He is a good blocker, has good hands, fakes very well which is an important part of our offense and is mechanically very precise.”

Walley, at 6'1”, 225 pounds, is a punishing runner who Coach Phil Janiero calls a “hard-nosed runner and a tough kid to knock off his feet.” He related an astounding statistic which reflects well on Walley’s...

Cats bowl-bound

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats are going bowling this season—not the kind of bowling with a hard ball with holes in it or the kind that comes at the end of the season. But the Cats will be playing in a bowl this Saturday night in Charlotte against Guilford—the Lions Bowl charity game. The Charlotte Central Lions Club is sponsoring the game, and the proceeds will go to the North Carolina Orthopedic Hospital.

Davidson, coming off of a 23-14 victory over Hampden-Sydney last weekend in Hampden-Sydney, Va., has now upped its record to 4-3 overall. Guilford is coming into the game with a 3-3 record. Davidson has a large lead in the series by winning ten of the 13 games played between the two schools. Guilford has won twice and there has been one tie. Davidson beat the Quakers 31-0 last year in Greensboro. Guilford won 26-10 in 1976. Guilford dropped last week’s game 27-0 to Randolph-Macon. Davidson pounded Randolph-Macon earlier in the year 42-0.

Head Coach Ed Farrell is concerned about the upcoming game for an ironic reason: the Wildcats will be heavy favorites coming into the battle. “We have not played well in the favorite’s role this year,” he began. “In all the other games when we have been favored—Washington and Lee,...

Al Rhyne did not start the game because he was out most of the practice week with an injury, but he came in and was very effective. Davidson's first score of the afternoon, coming when Hampden-Sydney held a 7-0 lead, came on a fake field goal. Rhyne, the holder on the play, stood up and fired a pass to Alvin Atkinson who took it in for the score. Rhyne teamed up with another one of his receivers during the second quarter for another touchdown. Gifford Piercy grabbed a 44-yard strike from Rhyne and juggled it into the end zone for the points.

Davidson’s defense shut down Hampden-Sydney’s offense in the second half. The Tigers only managed 26 yards on the ground after the intermission. Rhyne completed another touchdown pass in the fourth quarter, caught the 29-yarder for the...Randolph-Macon, and Hampden-Sydney — we could have lost. We entered the fourth quarter of those games still in danger of losing. We have played better in the underdog role.” The Cats had a difficult first half against Sydney. The Tigers managed to take the lead with less than a minute remaining when they recovered a fumble in their own end zone for a safety. Davidson took a 16-14 halftime lead. 

Walley had a fine day receiving; he had six catches for 187 yards. Atkinson was the leading rusher. The Davidsonian snares career rushing records with his awesome running strength. Only once in over three hundred carries has he lost any yardage. Coach Jim Colbert, the offensive backfield coach, lauds Walley as a disciplined runner with a good ability to read the hole well. There is little disagreement concerning Walley’s ability as a runner. Another aspect of his play which draws considerable additional praise is his consistent dedication to work as hard as he can in every practice and in the off-season as well. Colbert cites Walley as a very dedicated athlete who works so hard during the week that he never messes up mentally on Saturday. Farrell calls Walley “a leader who won't be easy to replace. He is one of the players who is most eager to work in the off-season. Players who have not had seasons as good as his are inspired by his work ethic.”

FULLBACK PAGE

Walley bursts through the middle of the line for yet another gain. Each yard he gains, the senior adds to the career standard for Davidson. During his freshman year, Coach Farrell harps on his outstanding personal qualities: “Page is a super person.” Then, switching to Walley’s performance on the field, Janiero mentions that “Page was the perfect person to help establish Coach Farrell’s Wing-T offense.” Colbert echoed Janiero’s views by stating that “Page is a very honest person who has paid the price it takes.” 

Quarterback Al Rhyne perceives the important contribution Walley makes by calling him “the backbone of the offense.” He then complimented Walley, saying that “Page very rarely makes a mistake on an assignment. He works his tail off in practice and it shows up on the field.” However, Walley possesses a soft-spoken, humble manner and is able to put such praise in proper perspective. Although he is proud of his athletic performances, his primary goal consists of going to graduate school in clinical psychology. “I hope to later get involved in private practice and perhaps do some community work in a mental health center in some rural region.” Possessor of a solid 3.4 grade point average, Walley should have no trouble fulfilling his aspirations.

Looking back on his few years of football, Walley cannot easily suppress all the good memories he has had. “I really enjoy being associated with the guys on the team. During my freshman year, the team went out with the attitude ‘Let’s be respectable.’ Now, we know we can beat anybody on our schedule. We are recruiting better players and have developed a winning attitude.” He is most proud of the fact that his class has been the one that has raised this football program and started the winning tradition at Davidson.

This week, Walley leads the Cats into a Saturday night benefit contest against the Guilford Quakers. The Cats are just beginning to earn national acclaim as just this week they received votes in the Division I-AA weekly rankings. A convincing win could land the Cats a spot in the top ten.

The Gridders enter Saturday's clash with Guilford hoping to come away with a 5-3 record.

BANQUET ROOMS AVAILABLE
LARGE OR SMALL PARTIES
CHOICE WINES & BEERS
PIZZA TAKE-OUT SERVICE
10 a.m. TO 12 p.m.
375-7449

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

SUPPLIES
Art - Office - School
(Bill Haley) 892-0208

The Copeland House Gallery
10 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Smith Flowers
302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, N.C.
892-8856
“For all your flower needs.”
Closed Tuesdays.