. March 31, 1978 The Davidsonian Opinion™

By ROGER BROWN
Guest Columnist

Allied General Nuclear Services has invited the Federal Government on a skin-diving trip and offers to lend us a pair of lead flippers as an enticement. They seek the federalization of the Barnwell Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing Facility in Barnwell, South Carolina, which has suffered ten-fold cost escalations and has failed to solve numerous safety deficiencies.

The world’s first fuel reprocessing plant opened in 1966 in West Valley, New York. The plant operated at about 30 percent capacity for 6 years and never offset initial capital costs of construction. In 1972, the plant was shut down because of high radiation levels which persisted in the effluents released by the plant and the over-exposure of plant workers to radiation. The privately owned plant (built by Nuclear Fuel Services) generated 600,000 gallons of high-level waste which became the responsibility of the state of New York. Efforts continue to saddle the Federal Government with responsibility for disposal of this waste, which is estimated by the Department of Energy to cost $565 million.

General Electric built a similar reprocessing plant at Morris, Illinois. After investing $64 million, GE chose not to open the plant at all due to operational difficulties and dangers. Allied General Nuclear Services built the Barnwell Plant which had been scheduled to open in 1975. The original estimates for the plant’s construction were $70 million; actual costs have run over $700 million. Delays stem from uncertainty about how to dispose of liquid plutonium nitrate and how to control contaminated waste steam.

Reprocessing takes spent fuel from Light Water Reactors (LWR) and separates uranium and plutonium from other wastes and recycles these fuels back to reactors for use. Reprocessing reduces demand for uranium mining and shifts the burden of waste management from Light Water Reactors to the reprocessing plant. Allied General estimated that reprocessing would cost around $150/kg. Recent estimates are more than double that, up to $400/kg. Plagued by the enormous construction costs and such high operating costs, the plant appears nowhere near...

Combining Christianity with liberal arts

By SAM WEIR
Guest Columnist

This week I am particularly aware of something which has been not at all foreign to me in past weeks—namely, the distinct feeling that I have no business speaking to issues I have studied little. In constructing the model of a Christian liberal arts college presented below, I was reminded often of my ignorance in the area of education. Certainly, I am no educator. However, I think it necessary to present one model of a Christian liberal arts school if for no other reason than to stimulate discussion within the area.

A Christian college necessarily implies Christians striving to reflect the apostles’ teaching not only in their own personalities but also in every aspect of the college’s corporate personality. A liberal arts college requires that students be exposed to differing world-life views. How are we to bring these two notions together? How will any college be able to implement the truth (in Jesus) while at the same time striving to expose its students to a wide array of truths? There exists a tension (some would call it a contradiction) between these two conceptions that we do well here to admit.

A Christian college will consist of individuals who have committed themselves to a particular perspective. On the other hand, a liberal arts college will expose its students to a wide variety of perspectives including some contrary to Christianity. The key to this dilemma lies in our method of exposure, for certainly the most satisfactory way to expose students to various world-views lies in their being taught by professors with a personal belief in these various opinions. And yet a Christian college must needs be made up of Christians.

The model proposed here is an attempt to do justice to both the Christian and the liberal arts concepts. We have seen that a liberal arts college presupposes a wide variety of viewpoints among both its faculty members and its student body. To achieve this wide variety, our model of a Christian liberal arts college need not include a Christian tenure rule or any distinctive admissions policies. We might insist that those who teach Christianity be Christians themselves just as we might require that those who teach Buddhism be Buddhists, but there need be no overall requirement for all or even a “preponderant majority” of the faculty to be Christian.

One might well ask at this point how such a college could remain Christian. The college will be Christian because its administration will consist of Christians seeking to obey Jesus in the way they administer the college. Thus, admissions will be handled in such a way so as to actualize the principles within Jesus’ parable of the wedding banquet: (Matthew 22:1-14) “Go to the street corners and invite anyone you find.” (v. 9) All will be welcome to enroll. The budget and physical plant will be handled with Jesus’ admonition against storing up wealth in mind. (Matthew 6:19) The college will relate to the community around it as “the salt of the earth” and “the light of the world,” working as Jesus did to “preach good news to the poor,” to “proclaim freedom for the prisoners,” and “to release the oppressed” (Matthew 5:13-16; Luke 4:17-19). Faculty evaluation will follow the model of “speaking the truth in love.” (Ephesians 4:15)

So there is one model of a Christian liberal arts college: faculty and student body of diverse viewpoints seeking to be liberated with a Christian administration seeking to obey Jesus through all aspects of the College’s operation. Though I admit the possibility of other models (I am not an educator), I...economic viability. The waste problems of the plant are critical. Reprocessing contaminates chemical solvents, filters, and other functional materials so that they must be treated as high-level waste also. Instead of reducing the quantity of waste by extraction of uranium and plutonium, reprocessing creates about as much waste as is extracted. The net result is an increase in the quantity of potentially dangerous radioactive substances. Reprocessing plants pose the significant danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons capabilities. Light Water Reactor wastes do not pose nearly so serious a proliferation threat since a critical mass of plutonium must be separated out of light water wastes to form an explosive. Reprocessing performs exactly that task and therefore represents the dangers of sabotage and theft or the high costs of tight security to guard the plant against such occurrences. Reprocessing also involves substantial health hazards. The first step in reprocessing is the shipment of wastes from dispersed reactors to the plant. High-level wastes from dispersed reactors would be shipped from as far as New England to Barnwell. The levels of radiation at the plant would be much higher than at a LWR since the highly radioactive wastes must be isolated and treated. The consequences of leaks are also much more severe due to the concentration of wastes in treatment.

According to Nuclear Power Issues and Choices, the highly respected Ford Foundation-MITRE study of 1977, “There is no compelling national interest to be served by reprocessing. There appears to be little, if any, economic incentive and it is unlikely that reprocessing and recycling could occur without subsidy.” The report also states, “Health hazards and new accident risks argue against reprocessing. But the most severe risks from reprocessing and recycling are the increased opportunities for the proliferation of nuclear weapons capabilities and the terrorist danger associated with plutonium in the final cycle.” The Ford Foundation study recommends no U.S. effort to subsidize completion or operation of reprocessing plants. The embarrassing failures at West Valley and Morris concur with the study’s findings. Allied General Nuclear Services are asking the Federal Government to take the Barnwell Plant off their hands. This demonstrates their lack of confidence in its profit-making potential. Federalization would minimize their losses and at the same time serve the nuclear industry by allowing wastes generated at LWR sites (such as McGuire Plant on Lake Norman) to be shipped to Barnwell. This would not only unload the burden of the Barnwell Plant investment on the government but also the responsibility for the problematic wastes generated across the country in existing reactors. This represents just one of many attempts by the nuclear industry to impose cost and risk inherent to the industry upon the government. If we bail out Allied General by federalizing the plant we will not only lose money. We will allow the nuclear industry to continue to ignore the problems of waste storage, we will pay for storage of wastes for which they have no solution except continued on-site storage, will create serious danger due to the possibility of transportation accidents, and we will subsidize a plant which facilitates sabotage and proliferation.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 300 words. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in that week's issue.

Lloyd offers reward

To the Editor:

On Saturday, 25 February, my family’s two big dogs, a Russian Wolfhound and a Great Pyrenees, were brutally killed, I believe in Davidson. The dogs, which had been missing for five days, had been advertised for in the Charlotte papers and in the Mecklenburg Gazette; the older dog’s collar bore the name of my son and our telephone number. I believe whoever did this is psychotic and a danger to me and to the community. Considering the size of the dogs and the singularity of their breeds, it seems certain that somebody must know who caught the dogs, kept them, killed them, and threw their bodies in a ditch on Beaty Street. I am not seeking vengeance, but peace of my family’s mind and possible help for some seriously disoriented party or parties. I will pay one hundred dollars to anybody giving me information that will identify the person or persons who killed these dogs.

Charles E. Lloyd
Professor of English
Davidson College