The Davidsonian ~ March 31, 1978

Eumenean Society changes with the times
By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Along with the Philanthropic Society, the Eumenean Society shares a place as the oldest student organization on campus. The Society was founded in 1837, the same year as the College, and the present Hall was built in 1849. The primary distinction between the Eu and Phi was for the nineteenth century rested in their respective memberships; the former was composed of out-of-state boys, while the latter limited its rolls to North Carolina residents. For this reason, Woodrow Wilson, who resided in Columbia, joined the Eu Society, and he has come to be its most prominent member.

Aside from fostering debate and public address, the Eu Society joined the boys of Phi Hall in sponsoring the earliest forms of student government at Davidson, relates Dr. Chalmers Davidson. According to Davidson, “they also had the first student athletics, which included horseshoes, hockey, and baseball. Along with the Phi Society, they published Davidson's first annual in 1895. When Davidson joined intercollegiate athletics, the colors of the two Societies, pink and blue, were used.” However, when Davidson first sponsored a football team, necessity caused the colors to be changed to red and black.

In the nineteenth century, before Davidson conferred honorary degrees, the two Societies would give honorary memberships. Most notable among those accepted from the Eu Society was an honorary membership held by John C. Calhoun. Legend holds that Peter Stuart Ney was also an honorary member.

In the first twenty years following World War II, the Eumenean Society experienced considerable decline as a campus organization, as did its counterpart, the Philanthropic Society. Davidson equates this decline with the disinterest in politics and debate during peacetime.

Bluegrass listeners
By SAM CURRIN
Staff Writer

The vast majority of Davidson students are addicted to hard rock and disco. The purpose of this article is threefold: to add diversity to The Davidsonian with respect to reviews of plastic stereophonically recorded entertainment discs, to pay tribute to musicians whose tremendous talent is indisputable yet seldom recognized, and to invite the reader to enjoy one of the richest forms of music available on recording, bluegrass music.

It is of the utmost importance at this time (without denying their common heritage) to explicitly emphasize that bluegrass and country music are by no means the same genre. This line of distinction was perhaps most definitively drawn when Bill Monroe first stepped on stage at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville, Tennessee, in 1939 with a band he called The Bluegrass Boys. The name came from his native state of Kentucky, but the music came from his heart. Bill’s music was revolutionary; it combined consistently tasteful fiddle and mandolin breaks, solid rhythms, and high-pitched vocal harmonies with a driving pace that had never been obtained in traditional country music.

Country music originated around the turn of the century with the introduction of the guitar into the Southern mountains, forming a trio with fiddle and banjo (not to mention some no doubt quite objectionable toothless crooning about incest and the like). However, it was not until Negro blues fiddling, predominant in the Deep South, influenced Renaissance secular reels, Irish hornpipes, and New Orleans ragtime that fiddling was formed. The man that put all this together into a coherent style was what we now know as bluegrass, Chubby Wise, and he was among those on stage at the Grand Ole Opry in 1939 with Bill Monroe.

Bluegrass is a style of music which, from its birth in 1939, has progressed steadily; a style of music rich in heritage and as contagious as smallpox. Bluegrass has become quite diversified over the past twenty years. Earl Scruggs revolutionized banjo picking, which was only...Further revolutionized by Bill Keith with his melodic or chromatic technique, the guitar was removed from its unheralded role as simply a rhythm instrument by the late Clarence White and was shown to be quite effective (today considered almost indispensable) as a lead instrument. Thus, due to the great variety of styles considered under the general heading of bluegrass, shopping for bluegrass albums when one is unfamiliar with the music can be very disappointing. I am going to make a suggestion for anyone that may be interested in expanding their record collection to include bluegrass. It is a very simple test.

However, the political activism of the sixties, encouraged by the devastating and unpopular Vietnam conflict, caused a resurgence of interest within the Eumenean Society. While the Philanthropic Society (see last week’s Davidsonian) continued its staunch conservatism, the members of the Eu Society took on a liberal stance, opposing the undeclared war. As the two Societies regained their prominence, Davidson’s fraternity system experienced considerable upheaval.

This test will determine conclusively if, in fact, you like bluegrass music. Buy an album called "The New South." To me, it represents a high point in bluegrass recording. The technical proficiency of the musicians is amazing, the quality of the recording (Rounder Records) is excellent, and the singing (featuring the “boy with the golden tonsils,” Tony Rice) boasts brilliant three-part harmonies. There are two extremely well-executed instrumental numbers, “Sally Goodin” (the best version I’ve heard), and “Nashville Blues.” I am quite sure the album will be a pleasant surprise to most everyone. New World Records on South Boulevard (also a location on Independence Blvd.) offers a fine bluegrass selection, and the people who work there are quite cooperative. The prices are reasonable as well.

MARK HELMS, ’80, picks away on his banjo. The banjo, basic to bluegrass music, is the only true American string instrument. Now that America is once again at peace, the fraternities here are on the rise once more, while the trends that caused Eu Hall to thrive have taken a back seat. In an effort to roll with the tide, the Eumenean Society accepts women students as members and no longer requires male participants to wear coats and ties to its meetings. Last year, the Society worked to produce a constitution that is more applicable to the present.

While the crystal chandelier in Phi Hall has received much acclaim, its “cousin” in the Eu Hall has an equally fascinating background. This brass fixture, hung in 1885, has the distinction of being the first gas-powered light in North Mecklenburg. When Eu Hall was remodeled in the 1950s, carpenters found an interesting bottle in her attic. This container was found to hold a scroll dated 1849, which provided a brief history of the Society. “Of particular interest,” noted Davidson, “is how the scroll was ended.” He went on to explain that in 1849 the North Carolina members of Phi Hall would have had antisecessionist leanings, while the out-of-state members of the Eumenean Society would have been more likely to favor withdrawal from the union. Apparently, this was not the case. Said Davidson, the Eumenean scroll ended with “may we all continue to be proud to be Americans.” Currently, the Eumenean Society is on the National Register of Historic Places. John Parkerson is President, and prospective members may contact him at the PAX house.

I have included below a list of several other albums that are fine representative albums that I feel you will appreciate. I hope you will buy and enjoy "The New South." For me, it was the beginning of a new experience with musical entertainment. Give it a chance.

1. Doyle Lawson—Tennessee Dream (excellent instrumental)
2. Dan Crary—Lady’s Fancy
3. Tony Rice—Guitar
4. Sam and Alan (Sam Bush and Alan Munde, instrumental)
5. David Grisman Quintet (jazz-bluegrass fusion, instrumental)