Scheduling demands attention — Spring term is always a problem for many students because it is so hard to study
on these beautiful 85-degree days. There are so many fun things to do that studying is the last thing on
most minds. If the baseball team does not have a game, then surely the tennis team has a match. Even
if there are no athletic events to go watch, one can always go catch a few rays and sip a
few cold beers out in front of Belk. This term, however, the general lack of desire to study has been
compounded by a problem far more serious than spring fever. Many students have been forced to take courses which they
do not like or want. Over four hundred students received only two courses during the original registration period and were
forced to scramble around in the drop-add line to fill out their schedules. The result was predictable—many students are very
upset with the courses they have been forced to take.

According to Richard C. Burts, the college Registrar, the problem is basically three-fold. First, students do not fill out their
registration forms completely. The computer then rejects the course request and the student comes up short one course. Second, several
departments underestimated the demand for certain courses. For example, over 100 people often request History 101 or 102, and the
ceiling has been set at 30. Finally, department heads have been reluctant to schedule classes in the afternoon because they
might conflict with labs. Thus, only the first four periods of the day are fully utilized.

All of these problems are valid, but they also have solutions which can and must be implemented. It is absolutely
ridiculous that students who are paying $5,000 a year to attend a small private college (partially so that they can
avoid the registration headaches traditionally found at large state universities) are shoved off into courses they do not want. When
seniors are cut out of a course, then they have been denied an integral part of their education. There is
no second chance for them.

Several changes to alleviate this problem could be made immediately. First, Dr. Zimmermann, Academic Vice-President, should play a bigger part
in determining the times when courses are offered. Many students cannot get the courses they want because the courses are
all offered at the same time. Dr. Zimmermann needs to arrange the overall course schedule so that the most popular
courses overlap as little as possible. Greater use of the one and two o’clock hours would accomplish this goal. Second,
professors need to acknowledge that all courses are not equal in value, content, and popularity. The more popular courses need
to be taught more often. Perhaps additional sections could be opened in the most popular courses. Also, the ceilings in
some courses need to be raised. The History department recently lowered its ceilings from 40 to 30 despite the fact
that dozens of students were turned away from several history courses. Third, in crisis situations such as this term, department
heads need to be more flexible with their ceilings. In most cases, it would not make that much difference if
a few extra people were added to each class. Certainly, there is an optimum size for every class, but the
negative aspects of adding a few more people to each class are far less than the damage done when a
student is totally deprived of his chance to enter the course. Finally, reducing the student/faculty ratio to about ten to
one would allow a lot more classes to be taught. Thus, the chances of a student being stuck in a
course he did not want would be greatly diminished.

The key question here is how soon can these solutions be implemented? The problem is certainly acute and must be
dealt with soon before any more damage is done. Davidson will lose much of its appeal if it continues to
be plagued with a problem which touches so many students in such a crucial way.
— Bill Barnett

Fight apathy, support Peace

This week at Davidson there were some students who realized that their spring term courses were more difficult than they
had expected; those individuals vowed to commit themselves to E.H. Little Library and devote more time to study. Other students—bragging
about the crip schedule they had arranged for this spring—headed out to the lake, went to the baseball game, tossed
a frisbee, drank beer at a party. And four Davidson students decided that they would work to ease the plight
of downtrodden people in conflict-ridden areas of the world.

It is easy to forget that there is a world beyond the sheltered confines of our pastoral Piedmont community. The
notion that Davidson should be an active and interested participant in the world is often lost in the maze of
academic, athletic, and social commitments. In recent weeks, The Davidsonian has included in its pages articles on national...and international news
events as well as columns, letters, and editorials on specific international issues—the Panama Canal, the Middle East, South Africa, etc.
These features have been poorly received. “We don’t want to read about that stuff,” the newspaper is told. “That doesn’t
have any place in a college weekly.”

Project Peace is admittedly a limited effort. It will aid a single family in only one war-torn area of the
world. But Project Peace is an important beginning for Davidson. Through Project Peace, the College can fight back isolationist apathy
and unite to provide a Lebanese family with food, shelter, and clothing. It is easy to move to the library,
to go to the party or the ball game, to stick our heads in the sand and ignore the suffering
of displaced refugees in the Middle East. Let us choose the more difficult course and prove to ourselves and the
world that Davidson is not dormant in the realm of international politics. Let us support the initiatives of Project Peace.

—Phil Duncan

SPRING. It’s back to the books... but where are the students? [Phil Howerton]

PIRG hits rate hike

The Davidson branch of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (PIRG) will present a series of articles dealing with
topics of current interest in the next few issues of The Davidsonian. We are introducing our series with an article
by David Gardner of Carolina Action, a statewide citizens’ action group that has been active on neighborhood issues and utility
and insurance rate reform. The topic of Gardner’s article is the proposed car insurance rate hike for North Carolina which
will go into effect on April 1. Readers are invited to comment on any of our topics in the form
of letters to the Editor.

Carolina Action, a statewide citizens’ action group, in an effort to bring down the cost of car insurance, will be
launching a campaign against the rate increase which will go into effect April 1. In Charlotte, the increase will be
10% for all drivers considered by the Insurance Companies to be high risk. Joe Waters of Carolina Action said, “This
increase is unfair because the insurance companies have no standards in deciding who is a high-risk driver. They will be
putting people in the High Risk Pool because they live in a certain neighborhood, or because they’re Black, or because
they're a single or divorced female. We believe that insurance rates should be based on driving record only.”

Last June the Insurance Companies lobbied heavily in the North Carolina State Legislature. A bill was passed which gave them
the right to charge more for people in the Reinsurance Facility (high-risk pool). Within this facility, the insurance companies pool
their losses. Thirty percent of the drivers in North Carolina are in this facility and 87% of those drivers have
never had an accident. The April 1 increase will be the first time those drivers will be charged more.

“The Insurance Companies are not required by law to notify a customer why he or she is considered a high
risk,” said David Gardner of Carolina Action. “This leads to discrimination. We will demand that all customers be notified of
why they are in the Reinsurance Facility. We will demand that the Insurance Companies establish a merit system, so that
only bad drivers will be charged higher rates. With the support of all the drivers in North Carolina, we feel
confident we will win.”

A citywide meeting will take place on Thursday, March 23 at 7:30 PM at the Downtown Public Library, 310 N.
Tryon St. Everyone is invited to attend. For rides and information, call Carolina Action: 332-2541.

News Editors
PAM CAMERRA
DENNIS MCLAWHORN

Editorial Page Editor
GEORGE MURDAUGH

Graphics Editor
PATSY DANIELS

Production Manager
AMANDA HALL

Circulation Manager
IGNACIO LOPEZ

Executive Editor
LYMAN A. COLLINS, I

Senior Editors
BILL BARNETT
JIM ENTWISTLE
HARRY GREYARD
DAVE NASH

Features Editors
ESTHER BRUCE
BILL PEEPLES

Focus Editor
ANN GARNER

Inside Art Editor
MARGARET MILES

Copy Editor
DAVID ISENHOWER

Sports Editor
BARRY SACHTJEN

Managing Editor
MARSHALL WADDELL

Photography Editors
DAVID LITAKER
GREGG STRADER

Special Assignments Editor
ANN SHEAFFER

Advertising Manager
ADAIR GREEN

Department assistants:
News—Stephen Gold; Sports—Mike Britt, John Willingham; Focus—Sheri Gravett; Special Assignments—Margaret Jackson; Circulation—Karen Long.

Published weekly in the academic year except during examination and vacation periods by students of Davidson College. The newspaper’s office
is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148;
subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at the U.S. Post Office, Davidson, N.C.

The Davidsonian’s Editorial Board—the editor, executive editor, and editorial page editor—select the topics for the newspaper's lead editorials. While the
editorials reflect an exchange of ideas between all members of the Board, the opinions expressed are those of the authors
and do not necessarily represent the view of each member of the Board.
