WTAE OT fae been October 27, 1978 Poland, a pope and peaceful By LOUIS ORTMAYER Professor of Political Science Poland—the
home of kielbasa and ethnic humor? Is the Pope Italian? Despite the perhaps rhetorical nature of these questions for the
casual observer, the dramatic elevation to the leadership of the Roman Catholic world of a non-Italian, a Pole, may serve
to awaken more informed interest in a unique land called Poland. Pope John Paul II, as Karol Cardinal Wojtyla, carried
on the work of the Church in a socio-political environment that will be much analyzed for clues to future Vatican
policies. Wojtyla is shaped by and in turn has himself helped to shape the dynamically changing context of a Polish
nation which is at once Catholic, communist, and politically restless. Wojtyla’s background is influenced by a variety of factors relating
to the powerful Catholic Church in Poland, which has sought to safeguard its own vital space against encroachments by a
communist system claiming to be absolute.

The important fact to remember about Poland is that Catholicism has been an inseparable part of Polish national life for
centuries. To be Catholic and Polish is to be doubly patriotic because the faith and the nation, to the majority
of Poles, are identical. Therefore, the Polish Catholic hierarchy has been able to operate under unique national conditions in negotiating
working arrangements with the post-World War II communist government. Long and laborious negotiations have taken place between Polish Church leaders
and the Warsaw regime to regularize conditions for Catholic believers. Church-state accommodation has recently been facilitated by Pope Paul VI’s
intentions to reach viable and secure working arrangements for the Catholic Church across the whole of communist Eastern Europe.

In view of the Polish Church’s anchor in the national climate and consciousness, as well as the Polish hierarchy’s claim
to a natural, on-the-spot understanding of the phenomenon of communism, the Polish bishops over the years have tended to resist
what they have sometimes seen as political interference in Polish religious affairs by the Vatican. Cardinal Wojtyla has been instrumental
in bringing the Polish Church, the Vatican, and the Warsaw government together to discuss the problems and possibilities of normalized
relations. As the number two Polish Catholic official, after the Polish primate Stefan Cardinal Wyszynski, Wojtyla as Archbishop of Krakow
has moderated Wyszynski’s hardline anti-communist stance and smoothed over Wyszynski’s long-smoldering feud with the Vatican diplomatic bureaucracy. Wojtyla is seen
as a very capable negotiator, administrator, and astute observer of the political scene. He has helped to move the Polish
Church toward a more secure and less antagonistic relationship with the communists without at the same time alienating or undermining
the authority of his superior Cardinal Wyszynski. Such political and social bargaining skills should serve him well in the position
of Pope.

Wojtyla has also been adept in pursuing the Polish Church’s traditional tasks—the propagation and preservation of the faith, extension of
the freedom to practice religion, and safeguarding the nation’s unity through this common faith. The dedication of the celebrated church
in the Krakow suburb of Nowa Huta is a noteworthy example. Not only did Wojtyla secure the permission for the
building after long years of official roadblocks, public protestations in the form of open-air worship and perseverance, but its symbolic
quality is important as well. Nowa Huta is the home of the Lenin Steel Works, the town designed by the
Warsaw regime as a model socialist city and community. Now, in the center of the socialist model of the future,
the workplace of the proletariat, stands one of the most architecturally innovative and pride-inspiring monuments of the Krakow region—a Roman
Catholic Church—anathema of the Leninist state. The gleaming concrete and glass structure stands in glaring contrast to the drab monotony
around it of governmental architecture in the “socialist realism” style.

Wojtyla, as a top administrator and intellectual guide of the Polish Catholic Church, has also had to come to terms
with the impact of the wave of political and social dissent which has swept Poland in recent years. As a
witty prelate in the Polish delegation to the Vatican remarked not long ago, when queried how Polish Catholics were faring
with the communist system, “Oh, fine... You see, we are no longer enemy number one. The workers are.” This comment
refers to the rise of workers’ opposition to Warsaw government policies which has joined with intellectual dissent movements to form
such influential protest associations as the Workers’ Defense Committee and its successor the Committee of Social Self-Defense (KOR). In the
past, given Cardinal Wyszynski’s deeply held mistrust of “atheistic” intellectuals, the Polish Church has rendered little support for the Polish
intellectual dissent movement. Recent attempts have been made, however, by socialist intellectuals, such as KOR militant Adam Michnik, author of
The Church, the Left and the Dialogue, to find some middle ground of agreement with the Church toward agitating for
reform against an authoritarian state. Now the moderate wing of the Polish hierarchy, led by Wojtyla, has moved to cooperate
with the protest movements by calling for human rights, toleration of dissent, institutional reform, and more freedoms for non-communist social
groups.

Workers’ power is apparent in Poland, their riots having toppled the regime in 1970 and threatened it again in 1976.
In this tense political climate, the role of the Polish Catholic Church has become extremely important to the current communist
party leadership headed by Edward Gierek. The Warsaw government has increasingly relaxed restrictions on religious instruction, facilitated church construction, and
passed favorable church tax measures in order to curry the favor of Polish Catholics. In the food riots of the
summer of 1976, the Catholic hierarchy responded by...Urging calm and calling for social cooperation until the government could seek to
remedy some of the more glaring grievances pronounced by the striking workers. Thus, in many ways, the big winners in
the latest face-offs.

Alum endorses classical music; shocked at staff ‘vandalism’

To the Editor:

Dear Davidson Students:

Not knowing how to contact the students who have operated FM Station WDAV, I am directing this letter to you,
hoping you can pass its contents on to the students who have operated WDAV. Not being there, I am not
qualified to pass judgment on the differences that have arisen between the students and the college administration. I am disappointed
in the lack of broadcasts of the radio station. As a lover of classical music, I would like for WDAV
to give more time to the broadcast of this kind of music. There seems to be a great amount of
jazz and popular music broadcast by the many radio stations in and around Charlotte, but a very limited amount of
classical music. When I first heard of WDAV being granted the use of more power, I hoped this would result
in listeners in the enlarged area getting more classical music. We get WDAV very well in High Point.

SGA referendum: poor word choice?

To the Editor:

I support student control of WDAV, but I find the wording of the recent SGA referendum concerning WDAV insincere, now
useless, and laughable. It is sad that the Senate would use such a phrase as “ethically irresponsible,” which can serve
no other purpose than to weaken their position. The Senate’s position was a sound one, but why bring ethics into
the matter? Why weaken your argument by basing part of it on a phrase that no one can defend as
right or wrong? The first two parts of the referendum dealing with education and finances can be supported in fact,
ethics cannot. Any influence the referendum might have had with the administration or trustees is gone because of the use
of the phrase “ethically irresponsible.” Why slap someone in the face when you don’t need to? The effectiveness of the
Senate decreases each time they scream like children. I was a Senator for two years and was bitterly disillusioned by
the general conduct of the Senate in matters such as this. The Senate was a waste of time, and now
I fear it will be powerless for a long time to come. It is sad that the students lost control
of WDAV. It is sadder still that they don't know an intelligent, mature way to get it back.

Guy DiCenzo ’79
Davidson College

The possibility of getting broadcasts of football and basketball games interested me very much. I have enjoyed so much the
broadcasts of the football games thus far, and was looking forward to the coming basketball games. Unfortunately, this may not
happen. I was really shocked by the vandalism of the control board of the station. I see no excuse for
this sort of thing. I understand that this will mean the station will be off the air for several weeks.
As most, if not all, the broadcast equipment was donated to Davidson, this was like a slap in the face
of the generous donors. It certainly will not help the good image Davidson has. I want to protest this action.
I hope the station will be put back on the air as soon as it is possible.

M.J. Murray
High Point, NC

That week’s issue.

An accommodation between party bureaucracy and human rights groups and workers has been the Catholic Church. Without entering into the
fight itself, the Church asserted itself as a force without which the party cannot govern Poland. By its recent outspokenness
and willingness to consider dialogue with Marxist intellectuals, the Church has helped to consolidate reformist and critical intellectual movements in
Poland, without touching off a potentially costly dispute with the government. Wojtyla's penchant for and facility with quiet diplomacy, his
ability to reconcile opposing viewpoints, and skill as mediator should be major assets to his reign as Pope John Paul
II. Wojtyla has rather conservative positions on Church dogma as well as a native Polish sense of bolstering and protecting
an embattled institution. But despite that, perhaps the Western world and Roman Catholicism in particular will come to appreciate what
many Poles (including Marxist-trained intellectuals) have come to recognize—that liturgical and political renewal has percolated more deeply down into Poland’s
Catholic subsoil than is generally credited in the West. Wojtyla was the administrator, Catholic pastoral preacher, and institutional protector par
excellence in Poland, but he always realized that the more flamboyant and outspoken Wyszynski was the local man in charge.
In his new office, an authority second to none, with his profound learning and command of languages, with his innately
Polish sense of pastoral duty and opportunity, and with a deep sense of social justice after experience with totalitarian regimes,
Wojtyla may well emerge as the Catholic leader most sensitive to the realities of a changing and often hostile world.
He recognizes the need for the Catholic Church to accommodate itself to these changes without forsaking its religious and moral
mission, and care for the pastoral and social needs of its believers. The Polish environment is far from an ideal
experimental laboratory for perfecting such new accommodation arrangements, but it has tested the mettle of the man who is now
called John Paul and found him worthy.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or
bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in
that week’s issue.
