November 3, 1978

Siamese preps surface again

Halloween hits ETC and Davidson reels

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Thank goodness somebody remembered Halloween this year!

The folks at ETC came up with a great idea for Hallow's Eve: Combine a fabulous dance band with costumes that could only have been designed by Joe Gardner for a party that will long be remembered.

The only thing missing was witch’s brew. None of the guests complained, though, for Joseph Schlitz makes some pretty good brew.

The Dynamic Upsetters provided the music, and although it was not of the spooky variety, the band did manage to blow a fuse—twice. A quick trip to the fuse box remedied the situation.

People who had never seen a pumpkin head got the opportunity, for two brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon carved gargantuan jack-o'lanterns and wore the orange melons on their heads. The two Sig Eps said it smelled awful.

The other costumes must be described, for more than any other factor, they made the evening.

One brawny character spent a wad in Charlotte on an official “Hulk” make-up kit. ABC is made-for-television horror flick. There were the usual vampires, cowboys, and hobos. One character was even original enough to come as a flasher. An ROTC cadet did a perfect one-man imitation of the Iwo Jima Monument, the only difference being that he carried an M-16 instead of an M-1 rifle. Harlots were everywhere. One young lady dug up a brick house costume that had to be left over from last year, while her date came as a bricklayer. One guy must have seen “Animal House” ten or twelve times, for only a fanatic would come to a Halloween party in a toga. (It was VERY cold outside.)

With a couple of exceptions, the SAE’s came as SAE’s, which was rough on the Sig Eps who decided to dress likewise.

The best costume award, however, must undoubtedly go to a couple of fellas who enjoy togetherness. They managed to slip into a pair of eighty-inch waist khakis back-to-back, with their heads and arms sticking out of the same crew neck sweater.

The Siamese Preps managed just fine until they tried to shag. They fell with a boom that shook the rafters, and they required the aid of several vampires and haints to get up and dance again. National Lampoon could not have done better.

THE CUSTOM of costuming two people in one pair of overalls began five years ago when Sue Colan donned one-half of her infamous overalls. Since then huge pairs of khakis and denims have emerged annually for Halloween antics.

(Bill Coward)

The Davidsonian

COLLEGE BOWL bowls ’em over with hot competition. Here the members of Emerald Void take a valiant stance against Five-&-One. Five-&-One went on only to be beaten by the undefeated Ru’ah Elohim. Action of this type is typical in the College Bowl Competition. Be sure and catch a couple of games over at the Union. Call the Union Desk for details. (Bill Percell)

Libertarian candidate will visit

By EUGENE HEATH
Staff Writer

Rick Pasotto, the Libertarian Party’s candidate for the U.S. House of Representatives in the ninth district, will speak in the Morrison Room this Friday.

Mr. Pasotto’s remarks will be followed by a question and answer period.

In his campaigning in the ninth district, Mr. Pasotto has called attention to the fact that a vote for him will provide a new voice in Congress, a voice leading beyond the stale welfare-warfare statism of the Democrats and Republicans. Unlike his Democratic and Republican challengers, Mr. Pasotto has refused to ignore the fundamental principles involved in political issues and vows to defend the right to use one’s property as one sees fit; the right to eat, drink, or smoke anything of one’s choice; the right to choose one’s own lifestyle, and the right to keep and trade one’s goods and services.

Because of the Libertarian Party's principled stand in favor of individual liberty, Mr. Pasotto’s broad-based campaign has won him support from both liberals and conservatives.

The following is the complete Sociology and Anthropology sections which were previously omitted:

Sociology

Norman Koller

Peter L. Berger, Invitation to Sociology

Peter L. Berger, A Rumor of Angels

C. Wright Mills, The Sociological Imagination

Edward T. Hall, The Hidden Dimension

Elliott Liebow, Tally’s Corner

Anthropology

Bob Myers

J. Peacock and T. Kirsch, The Human Direction

Clifford Geertz, Islam Observed

C. Levi-Strauss, Tristes Tropiques

A. Montagu, Man's Most Dangerous Myth: The Fallacy of Race

John Pfeiffer, The Emergence of Man

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE

Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly

Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

892-0208

Flower Cart
Florist
Main Street
Davidson, N.C.
892-6918

SHOWCASE

DEALER & DISTRIBUTOR OF ELECTRONIC MERCHANDISE

All Single LP’s $4.99

8 Tracks $5.99

182 N. Main
Mooresville, N.C.

LARRY WELLS

663-3803