April 14, 1978

The Davidsonian

Gallery exhibits Bearden art collection

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

At the Spring Awards Convocation on April 14, the dean of America’s black artists, Romare Bearden, will receive an honorary
degree. “He’s certainly the most important artist we’ve ever shown here at Davidson,” commented Professor of Art, Herb Jackson. Bearden’s
exhibition will be in the Davidson College Art Gallery through May 5. The exhibit includes 23 of his pieces chosen
from the period 1964 to the present. The exhibition consists mainly of collages, although there will be a few silk
screens. Bearden did not develop the collage fully into his style until 1964. From then on, it became the basis
of his work. An article by Calvin Tomkins in The New Yorker said, “It was as though Bearden had re-invented
collage, which became in his hands the ideal medium for the transmission of all he had learned as an artist
and as a man.”

Bearden was born on Sept. 2, 1914, in Charlotte, N.C., but he grew up in Harlem. He spent much of
the Depression there and during this time he got to know many great jazz musicians: Duke Ellington, Fats Waller, Billie
Holliday, Louis Armstrong, and Jelly Roll Morton. Their influence proved great as he, himself, spent several years writing music; more
importantly, they influenced his art.

In 1931, Bearden began studying at Boston University but transferred after two years to New York University. He graduated there
in 1935 with a bachelor’s degree in science and became a member of the Harlem Artists Guild. Through this association,
he came to know such men as Langston Hughes, Claude McKay, William Saroyan, Bill Steig, and Carl Van Vechten, and
musicians Andy Razaf, Sammy Stewart, and John Hammond. The Harlem artists at this time were being dominated by social realism.
According to The New Yorker, Bearden’s early paintings “were more lyrical, and were concerned more with plastic values than with
social themes.”

It was also at this time that Bearden was introduced to African sculpture as well as African and Afro-American history.
He visited an exhibition of African Negro Art put on by the Museum of Modern Art. The New Yorker stated,
“What Bearden got from this experience was not racial pride so much as a sense of the tremendous formal power
and majesty of African art.” These ideas were later incorporated into his collage paintings.

In 1950, Bearden spent six months in Paris and was then a fairly well-established artist with about six one-man shows
to his credit. While living in Paris, he got to know other artists also living there. These included James Baldwin
and Richard Wright. Bearden came back to the United States in August 1950 and applied for a Fulbright grant. He
didn’t get it and subsequently had problems starting to paint again. He turned to music, and over the next couple
of years, he achieved some success as a songwriter, recording about twenty songs.

In 1954, Bearden was married to Nanette Rohan and it was his marriage that Bearden felt really gave him the
strength to return to painting. Ten years later, he was to develop his technique with collages which now dominate his
work. In 1966, Bearden received the National Institute of Arts and Letters award.

He has been

PAC releases Code draft
(Continued from page 1)

an international outlook. “An international outlook means that people are aware of the problems of the world,” said Zimmermann. “Davidson
is trying to promote world consciousness through such things as the hiring of faculty and the South Asian study program,
for example.”

The sixth criterion is “service to the institution,” involving support of faculty policies, participation in committees, and maintaining good relationships
with alumni, parents, trustees, and others. “Support of faculty policies means that when the faculty adopts a procedure or regulation,
all the members of the faculty should support this. If the faculty passed a regulation and some members acted contrary
to it, this would be an uncooperative situation,” said Zimmermann.

Spencer makes final recommendations on these matters involving hiring, renewal of contract, and granting of tenure to the trustees, who
then act on his proposal. The President will normally appoint the Vice-President for Academic Affairs to work with the department
chairman in gathering evidence and conducting evaluations.

According to Zimmermann, “There is an attempt to be in complete conformity with the new by-laws which reaffirm that Davidson
is a church-related institution, having a Christian commitment.” The Enacting Statement provides that “a preponderant majority of the teaching faculty
and administrative staff continue to be professing and practicing Christians.” The inclusion of the phrase “in most instances” in the
section of the evaluation draft dealing with Christian commitment is designed to express the “preponderant majority” provision in the Enacting
Statement, according to Zimmermann.

According to the proposed draft, “the terms of the appointment (of a new professor to the faculty) will include acceptance
of the provisions of the Davidson College Constitution, including the Statement of Purpose, in which Davidson recognizes...God as the source
of all truth” and “sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving purpose, order, and value to the
whole life.” Other factors involved in the fifth criterion are a vigorous outlook as evidenced in physical vigor, skill in
integrating material in a liberal arts framework, community service, and conducting investigations on which to base an evaluation. The evidence
and opinions of the department chairmen and tenured members of the department will play a role in the evaluation process.
They will be consulted by the Vice-President who will then pass his judgments along to the President. In decisions of
tenure, untenured faculty members will not be directly involved because, stated Zimmermann, “the prevailing philosophy, as I understand it, is
that this puts an unfair responsibility on untenured faculty members. The most disinterested are the tenured faculty members who are
not competitors.”

“Student opinion is clearly going to be an important part of the evaluation process,” said Zimmermann. The PAC and he
are in the process of investigating methods to gather student opinion and analyze the data. Zimmermann feels that this will
likely be developed by next fall. The draft sets out the procedures to be followed in the evaluation process. In
the case of tenure decisions, there is a clause calling for a meeting between the candidate and the Vice-President in
the initial stages to ensure that the candidate for tenure clearly understands the evaluation process. The draft recognizes that “within
any group even of highly successful teachers there will be differing personalities, differing intellectual bents, differing approaches and styles of
teaching—all of which, from the standpoint of the experience of the students, is highly desirable.” The document continues, “hence, as
with any process involving human interaction, it is inevitable and necessary that judgments at Davidson will contain a ‘subjective’ element.”

“There are going to be sensitive cases in the future, I am confident,” said Wolf. “The main point is that
people will know what the standards against which they are measured are, and how those standards are going to be
applied.”

Elected to the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters and the New York State Council on the Arts,
he was chosen as a Guggenheim fellow for 1970-71. He has written two books, collaborating on each with one other
man. The books are The Painter's Mind, published in 1969, and Six Black Masters of American Art, a book for
young readers. Bearden, considered to be the foremost black artist in America, has work displayed in the Museum of Modern
Art, the Metropolitan, the Whitney, and many other major museums and galleries. His own gallery, Cordier and Ekstrom Gallery of
New York, is lending Davidson the works for the show here. A reception will be held for Bearden from 8
to 10 pm in Chambers Art Gallery tonight. 1,000 invitations were sent out but anyone is encouraged to stop by,
said Jackson.

National and world news

Europe reviews US

Denmark—During the recent meeting of the European Economic Community in Copenhagen, European leaders expressed concern over U.S. foreign policy. While
discussing such issues as the declining value of the dollar, SALT, and U.S. energy policies, the leaders criticized the U.S.
for what they termed its inconsistent and insensitive foreign policy. An economic summit meeting between the U.S., Japan, and the
European Community is scheduled for July 16-17 in Bonn.

Lebanon—The first stage of Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon began Tuesday. Israel is skeptical of the UN troops’ effectiveness in
maintaining peace. The UN policy to consider Israel and the Palestinians as equals is greatly opposed by Israel, who prefers
the UN’s job to be the prevention of the PLO’s return to southern Lebanon. Meanwhile, the 220,000 Palestinian refugees have
begun to return home as Israel withdraws from southern Lebanon.

Africa—Transkei, the first black homeland granted independence by South Africa, has broken relations with Pretoria, and has expressed its support
of the movement for majority rule in South Africa. Transkei receives two-thirds of its present budget from Pretoria and supposedly
hopes to gain world recognition through its actions. In Rhodesia, the interim multi-racial government expressed its opposition to an “all-parties
conference” supported by the Carter Administration, but did not exclude the possibility of future negotiations. Secretary of State Vance plans
to meet with militant black leaders in Tanzania sometime this week.

Washington—President Carter’s decision to halt production of the neutron bomb has stirred up great controversy in the past two weeks.
Under great pressure from Congress and our allies, in particular West Germany, the President softened his stand, and decided rather
to “defer” its production. This suspension is contingent on favorable Soviet response to SALT and to the reduction of troops
in Eastern Europe. Sec. of State Cyrus Vance is scheduled to visit Moscow later this month.

Compiled by Mary Booth.

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3011
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M. A. WICKER
President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice-President and Secretary
