December 8, 1978

Linda Hoopes

Back Page Editor

Sage Campus Activities

Friday, December 8
9:30 p.m. English Festival, front of PAX (Guy Fawkes’ Day)
9:30 and 11 p.m. Tim Purcell, 900 Room

Saturday, December 9
9:30 and 11 p.m. Tim Purcell, 900 Room

Sunday, December 10
7:30 p.m. Christmas Vespers, DCPC

Monday, December 11
2-4 p.m. College Bowl Varsity Team Tryouts, Conference Room

Tuesday, December 12
2-4 p.m. College Bowl Varsity Team Tryouts, Conference Room
6:45 p.m. Campus Caroling. Meet at ATO.
8:00 p.m. Union Christmas Activities start.

Wednesday, December 13
12:30 p.m. Open Luncheon with June Kimmel

BEHIND THIS smiling face lies a mind like a steel trap! Come hear his opinions on pornography and politics in
film on Friday, Dec. 8.

Movie Critic on Campus

When was the last time you raved about a movie, only to have it panned by the reviewers -- or
absolutely hated the movie getting top headlines and rave write-ups? Even if, by some chance, your taste in movies always
coincides with that of the critics, you will be interested in the Union Speakers’ Committee’s latest guest.

Andrew Sarris, film critic for the Village Voice (a New York weekly newspaper), founding chairman of the National Society of
Film Critics, and associate professor at Columbia University’s School of the Arts, will be on campus on Friday, December 8th.

Sarris is widely known, having contributed to such publications as The New York Times, The Washington Post, Playboy, Mademoiselle, The
Saturday Review, and Rolling Stone.

He will speak twice while on campus: “A Conversation on Pornography” will be presented at 10 a.m. in Chambers Gallery,
and “Politics in Film” will be the topic at 7:30 in the 900 Room, followed by an informal meeting in
the Morrison Room.

A display of recent reviews by Andrew Sarris is posted in the main hall of Chambers -- it will provide
a good introduction to this excellent speaker, or at least some interesting reading.

JUGGLING CROSBY-STYLE is one of the many short courses to be offered after Christmas. Don’t miss the registration on Wednesday!

Sample a Short Course

Everyone at Davidson has some unique talent or interest, whether you know it or not. The Student Union has found
a super way to let people share their talents with other interested students, as they present the Short Courses.

Coordinated by Mary Jo Clark and Amy Edmunds, the courses will start immediately after Christmas break and continue until February
15th. But if you're interested (and if you’re not, you’re crazy), the registration will be held from 10:00 a.m. to
7:00 p.m. on Wednesday, December 13th in the Conversation Pit.

A $1 deposit will be assessed for each course, refundable if you attend all sessions of the course ($3 non-students).
In addition, a small fee will be charged for some of the courses to cover materials.

Here’s a list of courses and teachers — the freebies first:
-- Irvin Brawley and the Grounds Department will teach a “Principles of Horticulture” class -- they add that this will
be open for visitors at all times -- drop in for any one of the six sessions.
-- Automobile Mechanics -- Major Collins
-- Clogging -- The Davidson Freewheelers
-- Genealogy (Searching for the Elusive Family Tree) -- Lindsay Robertson
-- Libertarianism -- Eugene Heath
-- Beginning Guitar -- Jeff McArn (maybe you can be a star in next year’s Top Hats and Cat Tales
show!)
-- Chess -- Carter Todd
-- Art of the Haircut -- John Thomas
-- Bellydancing -- Marian Perkins (c’mon girls!)
-- Yoga -- Dot Kaylor
-- Cosmetic Makeovers -- Amy Edmunds
-- Juggling -- Doug Crosby

Now for the rest — ranging from $.50 to $15.00:
-- Running -- Norm Koller ($.50)
-- Billiards -- Tom Plott ($1)
-- Macrame -- Marcelle Honeycutt and Jane Shake ($4)
-- Sculpting -- John Evans ($4)
-- Batik -- Susan Bane ($5)
-- Breadmaking -- Ruth Pittard ($5) (yum!)
-- Healthfood Cooking -- Anne White ($5)
-- Southern Cooking -- Will Terry ($5) (a favorite last year!)
-- Stained Glass -- Dave Schmidt ($10)
-- Martial Arts (Karate) -- ($15?!)

And two unlisted prices:
-- Photography -- Frank Bliss
-- Pottery -- Tim Bonsack

Sound like fun? Then come register! Call the Union Desk (ex: 140) if you have questions.

Sports

Wrestling
Thursday, Dec. 7. Catawba. Here, 7:30.
Saturday, Dec. 9. Citadel, Elon, VMI. Here, 1:00.

Rifle
Saturday, Dec. 9. UT Chattanooga. Here.

Women’s Basketball
Friday, Dec. 8. Benett. Away.
Tuesday, Dec. 12. Augusta. Away.
Thursday, Dec. 14. Davidson Community. Away.

Swimming
Saturday, Dec. 9. UNC Wilmington at UNCC.
