January 20, 1978

The Davidsonian

Pritchett leaves basketball program

by JOHN DAVIS
Staff Writer

Head basketball coach Dave Pritchett requested and was granted a medical leave of absence Friday, January 13, and Davidson is
now seeking its fourth coach in two years. Immediate prospects for the hiring of a new coach are not bright,
for those few who are available for the job in mid-January are generally those who have recently been fired from
a similar position. Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill is not without candidates, but there is no man particularly outstanding at this
point, and certainly Cartmill's percentages are more favorable in waiting until after the season to get a qualified coach.

“If we can locate the right person immediately,” he commented, “we might make the change, but if not, we're not
going to panic.”

The reason for Cartmill's relative calm lies in the person of John Kochan, a 28-year-old who has been an assistant
for the past two years and is presently serving as interim head coach. Kochan has managed competently in his first
three games and, more importantly, is in good position to continue Davidson's recruiting efforts for next year.

Pritchett, due to his long illness, has been unable to do more than a token amount of recruiting this year,
and Kochan and assistants Tom Abatemarco and Jonathan Rhyne have been carrying out the actual field work. Thus, although admittedly
the recruiting effort is at best half-mast, Cartmill is in no great hurry to replace Kochan's stabilizing influence and familiarity
with the Davidson program. Indeed, his retention as head coach is a definite possibility.

Pritchett's illness remains something of an enigma. Described as suffering “mental and physical exhaustion,” he is presently under the care
of a neurologist and a psychiatrist. In the recurrent examination and treatment he has undergone since June, no tangible physical
infirmity has been pinpointed.

The mysterious character of the ailment as well as Pritchett's celebrated “disappearance” from Chapel Hill's N.C. Memorial Hospital on January
3 has prompted a substantial amount of journalistic commentary. The Observer, in a somewhat farcical tone, remarked that “the school
seemed unsure how to handle the situation and how to make the fact public.”

Cartmill, however, stresses that “we have been on top of things since June,” and that...

Young wrestlers fall prey to early season inexperience

By J.A.H.
Staff Writer

Since I experienced in high school, almost all the varsity sports participated in at Davidson, I feel I can say
that wrestling is one of the most physically demanding and individualistic sports. A match contains three periods totaling eight minutes
of wrestling. When a wrestler enters a match, there is little help to be had from either the coach or
teammates other than screams of encouragement or instructions.

Charley Parker and his wrestlers hosted Elon College and The Citadel on January 14. The first contest of the afternoon
was Davidson vs. The Citadel. Although there was little to cheer about concerning the score, The Citadel 47-Davidson 4, there
were several exciting matches. Pat McKinsey wrestling in the 134 lbs. class was pinned in the second period. Yet, McKinsey
is only a freshman, and with a good portion of the season remaining as well as three more years at
Davidson, he should develop into a fine wrestler. Team captain Glenn Ballard was leading 2-0 after the first period, but
lost 13-10 on points in a match in which the lead changed several times. Scott Phillips in the 177 lbs.
class provided the most exciting match of the first contest as well as Davidson's only victory. Phillips led 11-4 after
the first two periods which were filled with fast-paced reversals and near-pins (mostly by Phillips). Action slowed in the third
period, and Phillips held on to win 13-6 on points.

In the second contest of the afternoon, The Citadel defeated Elon College by a score of 45-9. Elon College then
competed with...Davidson in the third and final contest of the afternoon. Richard Reich in the 126 lbs. class started Davidson
off with an 8-3 victory. Pat McKinsey at 134 lbs. and Glenn Ballard at 142 lbs. won by forfeit. Pat
Dulaney, a loser in his first match, represented Davidson in the 150 lbs. class. Dulaney opened aggressively and dominated his
man both technically and physically. Leading 16-4 in the second period, he went on to win 24-7. Scott Phillips, unable
to match his earlier performance, lost on points. Heavyweight class wrestler Rob King found his second opponent more to his
liking; he lost his first match against The Citadel by a fall (pin). King won his second match by a
fall in the third period. Unfortunately, these victories were unable to overcome the higher scoring Elon wrestlers. The contest ended
Elon 27-Davidson 26. After the match, Ballard was able to offer these comments on the team: “Our biggest problem is
lack of experience and maturity.” Ballard feels it is a matter of time before the team will mature mentally. Perhaps
this will happen this weekend when the team journeys to The Citadel to compete in their annual tournament.

Glenn, the manifold medical and legal ramifications necessitated caution in dealing with the affair. There was some hope that a
prolonged rest over the Christmas holidays would enable Pritchett to resume his duties, but the illness is of an indefinite
length. Accordingly, when Pritchett submitted his request for medical leave of absence, the college decided it was best for all
concerned to grant it and to begin the search for a replacement as quickly as possible. Pritchett has been offered
a position other than head coach with the college upon his full recovery. Concern has arisen over the possible departure
of some of this year’s freshmen and particularly that of guard Chris Dodds. Pritchett was a factor of significant importance
in Dodds' decision to attend Davidson, and to him “the loss was a real blow.” He describes his former coach
as sincere, extremely dedicated, and a gifted motivator. “I trust him more than anyone I've ever met,” Dodds remarked. Nevertheless,
Dodds emphasizes that he has no plans to leave now and would not relish the compulsory one-year ineligibility which would
ensue should he transfer. The entire situation is certainly unfortunate, and one must empathize with the players, who are the
central figures in this disconcerting whirl of transient leadership. They are to be admired for their perseverance. The college has
received a blow to its professed aspiration to become a national basketball power, but Cartmill retains confidence in the ultimate
realization of this goal, and promises that “we're going ahead with it,” for there remain a great many interested people
behind him.

Free Recreation in Main Gym 1/20-26
Friday: 1 pm-12 midnight
Saturday: 2 pm-12 midnight
Sunday: No open times
Monday: 11 am-2 pm, 10 pm-12 pm
Tuesday: 11 am-2 pm
Wednesday: 11 am-2 pm, 3 pm-10 pm
Thursday: 11 am-2 pm, 9 pm-10 pm

Please note: Some events may run over into free time. Also, all events in the gym are subject to change
at any time.

Men’s Basketball
Davidson 86, Furman 82
Davidson 87, UT-Chattanooga 93
Davidson 60, Appalachian 74

Wrestling
Davidson 4, Citadel 45
Davidson 63, Furman 50
Davidson 26, Elon 27

Girls’ Basketball
Davidson 60, Campbell 67
Davidson 58, Lenoir-Rhyne

Listen Smokers: You don’t have to wait 20 years for cigarettes to affect you. In just 3 seconds a cigarette
makes your heart beat faster, shoots your blood pressure up, replaces oxygen in your blood with carbon monoxide, and leaves
cancer-causing chemicals to spread through your body. All this happens with every cigarette you smoke. As the cigarettes add up,
the damage adds up. Because it’s the cumulative effects of smoking — adding this cigarette to all the cigarettes you
ever smoked — that causes the trouble. And tell that to your dog, too.

U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, EDUCATION, AND WELFARE
This Space Contributed as a Public Service
