May 12, 1978

Opinion

Rev. Seeker drops mask

By MIKE DAISLEY
Staff Writer

Rev. Hyden Seeker, author of several Davidsonian columns during the school year, reacted stoically to the decision made last week
that he would not be granted tenure.

Appearing a bit more solemn than usual, Seeker dropped by Lafferty House—North yesterday for a Davidsonian interview to reminisce about
his written commentaries on the Davidson scene. “Of course, I’m disappointed at having to leave,” remarked the nine-month-old pen-name, “but
it certainly has been a fun year.”

“What amazes me is how the time has gone. It sounds incredibly trite, but it really seems like last week
that I tapped out my first column,” said Seeker. In that reporting debut, Seeker interviewed the Chamber Maids, Lux and
Orta, about their opinions on freshmen in general and the Class of '81 in particular. Subsequent columns dealt with such
controversial subjects as the self-selection of Homecoming Queens, the Davidson Sun-Team, and the Second Annual Spring Convocation Boycott and Speakers’
Festival.

Seeker shrugged off the charge that his reporting lacked complete accuracy and credible sources. “Facts, smacts! My job was to
report the stories as I saw them—the way they really should have occurred. So what if I didn’t always confirm
my sources? Nobody else for The Davidsonian did either,” explained Seeker.

At one time or another during the year, Seeker allegedly slandered numerous school institutions such as ARA Slater, Update, the
laundry, the SAE fraternity, and the Union, as well as a host of individuals, including E.H. Little, Ed Farrell, President
Spencer, Dr. Devon, Dr. Hight, Dave Pritchett, Price Zimmermann, Thom Young, and all the girls that will live in Grey
House next year, just to mention a few.

Despite his apparent inadequacy as a reporter, Seeker doubted that was the primary reason for his not receiving tenure. “There
are a lot of inadequate people around with tenure,” he said. “No, the problem is simply inherent in being a
pen-name. You see, a writer will choose a pen-name even though he doesn’t always know why or exactly what he’s
going to do with it. A pen-name is only as respected as the writer behind it. Its main purpose is
to get readers past the personality of the by-line and into the content of the column.

“At any rate, there comes a time when a pen-name can no longer help the writer, and thus it becomes
unnecessary. Even though the writer may still use it and cherish the security it once gave, the pen-name has in
effect lost its original purpose. Time has forced the real writer to come out from behind the pen-name and be
evaluated. Thus, that special relationship between the two is terminated, and though the writer will always carry the pen-name with
him, it can never quite mean the same. It’s funny,” Seeker mused as he was leaving, “but...”

Cohen lauds atmosphere

The following letter was written by Dr. Carl Cohen, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Michigan to Professor of
English Frank Bliss. Dr. Cohen, a Reynolds Lecturer, was on campus two weeks ago.

Dear Frank,

Cordial greetings. Your warm and gracious note was heartening to receive. Believe me when I say that I got—from students
and faculty at Davidson—more than I gave. It was a very satisfying visit on every count, and I take the
opportunity to express to you—and through you to the students—my appreciation of the intellectual and personal spirit shown me during
those days.

I send you, and all friends at Davidson, every good wish.

Very truly yours,
Carl CohenA pen-name is a lot like a college. I just wish some writers would have recognized that earlier.

Letter to the Editor
(David Litaker)

Smith charges subjective journalism

To the Editor:

I was disturbed to read last week’s article entitled "Davidson students protest nuclear plant." Without drawing any value judgments as
to the protest itself, I feel The Davidsonian's coverage of the Barnwell activity was less than objective and not as
newsworthy as its two thousand words or so would indicate.

From the beginning, I will admit that an activity including as many Davidson students as this seems to have involved
is germane material for The Davidsonian. I will not grant, however, that the most minute details of the entire weekend
were front page news. Although the kicker headline implied that Davidson students were "arrested for civil disobedience," the article itself
finally got around to their names some 500 words later. The reader first had to wade through such muck as
"In high spirits the demonstrators returned to the campsite for the rally that evening," and "The feelings of the marchers
were a combination of determination, excitement, and uncertainty."

Normally, one could question the writers’ ability to know the precise feelings of the marchers. This obstacle was neatly hurdled,
however, by the fact that all three (objective?) writers participated in the march itself. The disturbing point is that the
reader was not told this was to be a subjective, opinionated essay—the front page position and third person point-of-view instead
implied that the article was, in fact, "straight news" (if such a creature actually exists). The clincher came when two
of the writers [David Litaker] were so anxious to present their personal point-of-view that they interviewed themselves. Neat, huh?

The last half of the article described the booking and bail process. True, the information perhaps was "a worthwhile, valuable
learning experience"—but was it particularly relevant? Couldn’t the law officers’ "courteous" treatment during that time have been covered in one
sentence (or even a phrase)? Did we have to know the marchers' every step—their every thought, word, and emotional peak?
If so, perhaps other Davidson students would like equally the opportunity to write of their own weekends this spring. Maybe
we could just have show-and-tell in Love Auditorium during the old ten-o’clock Chapel hour instead.

Come on, Davidsonian! Let’s have some objective (and concise) reporting. If you really don’t have anything to say, have another
page of Inside Art and quit wasting the readers’ time.

Stephen J. Smith '78
Davidson College

Dear Mr. Smith:

It would have been more appropriate to have had a reporter interview the participants of the Barnwell protest and write
a news article. But frankly, we had no other reporters available. As this was the case, we had involved people
write a news-feature article, one that conveyed a sense of the event as well as cold, hard facts.

We do feel this was front page material for three reasons. Many students have expressed interest in the events at
Barnwell. The protest received front page coverage in many newspapers. And most importantly, the reason for the protest, nuclear energy,
is an important national issue, one that will affect many people's lives. When Davidson students finally do emerge from their
microcosm and display enthusiasm over a national issue, it deserves major coverage.

-Editorial Staff

WITH THIS ISSUE
The Davidsonian ceases publication for the present school year. Don’t flunk any exams, and have a good summer.
