~~ The Davidsonian March 31, 1978

By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

If there were a physical stereotype for United States Senators, then Charles Goodell would be a striking example for others to follow. He is an attractive, balding man, whose omnipresent pipe appears to be a permanent extension of his right hand. Pacing his bedroom floor at the Carolina Inn Tuesday night, the man who was appointed to finish Robert Kennedy’s senatorial term in 1969 graciously answered a battery of questions. The ex-Senator, father of Tim Goodell, responded with a humor and frankness that one wishes most politicians would adopt. Though the New York Republican fielded many questions in the 45 minutes granted The Davidsonian, only those which should prove of greatest interest to the Davidson campus are included in this article.

Davidsonian: The 1976 GOP convention brought about a damaging division within the Republican party. What do you see as the best objectives and methods to put the Republicans back in office in 1980?

Goodell: I believe that good candidates should be chosen from the local level on up. As a conservative and negative force, the Republicans have been a step ahead of the nation. New leaders must inform the people of the nation and persuade them to adopt new policies.

Davidsonian: How do you account for the recent growth of the GOP in the Deep South, and do you see a continuance of this trend?

Goodell: The Old School Democrats are no longer a powerful force in Congress, especially since the seniority system for committee chairs is no longer a Congressional policy. The GOP has gained strength in the South because it had nowhere to go but up. The South, traditionally conservative, will continue to increase an interest in the Party.

Davidsonian: The Packwood-Moynihan Bill, which will provide tax incentives to people spending money for private education, is of particular interest to Davidson students and parents. With fifty co-sponsors, it is on the Senate calendar for 1978. Do you favor this bill, and what do you think its chances are?

Goodell: Yes, I favor the bill. That there are fifty co-sponsors is insignificant. I had over forty co-sponsors for a bill to end the Vietnam War, and it was unsuccessful. The Senate calendar is so full and this bill so minor, it may never be brought up. And many Senators who co-sponsor a bill do so because they know it will never be discussed. Also, the Carter Administration opposes the bill, having an alternative plan of increasing federal tuition grants.

Davidsonian: This bill poses a constitutional challenge to the separation of church and state. If passed, do you think it will be outlawed?

Goodell: The Courts will probably restrict it, but it will not be rendered unlawful.

Davidsonian: What are your feelings about Jimmy Carter?

Goodell: The nation as a whole is in the same state, relatively speaking, that it was when Carter took office. A newcomer like Carter who is anti-Washington, yet very much a part of the same establishment he opposes, needs fourteen months of on-the-job training.

Davidsonian: As a resident of New York, you are very close to the fiscal problems faced by New York City, especially with your ties as a public servant. Do you think the federal

There is a revival taking place in the United States, a revival of Irish traditional music played with traditional instruments. Such groups as the “Chieftains” and the “Boys of the Lough” have opened the doors, and people are becoming aware that “real” Irish music is not Danny Boy or Mother McRee, but a music more akin to classical or chamber music. The Potstill Band is a group of American musicians devoted to Irish-Celtic music. Although the music is traditional, it is arranged to delight and entertain any audience. The group consists of Bill Crozier on the mandolin and Bouzouki, Mark Roberts on flute, whistle and bodhran (the Irish drum), and Patrick Sky on the Irish Uileann pipes.

Phone 663-3030

Help Wanted - TEACHERS at all levels
Foreign and Domestic Teachers
Box 1063
Vancouver, Washington 98660‘Government should bail out the city or (meal avid Titaker) take a more passive role? 

Goodell: Washington should not ‘jump in gung-ho,’ as you call it, but it must help. The federal government should assume a greater portion of welfare funding and should purchase New York municipal bonds.

Davidsonian: Do you think this aid may set a precedent for other cities that may get into trouble and expect national help?

Goodell: Well, no other city is anything like the size of New York or has its poverty level. Also, no other large city has a similar past policy of tremendous fringe benefits or pension plans on a scale like New York. Frankly, New York’s situation has scared hell out of major American cities, and they have taken precautions not to be caught in the same bind.

Davidsonian: Can you give a brief account of political prisoners in the U.S., as outlined in your book on the subject?

Goodell: When I wrote the book, I did not write my memoirs, as did Sam Ervin. However, Ervin and I share concerns about our basic freedoms, particularly those of the First Amendment, including speech, religion, and press. I am primarily concerned with freedom of speech, which is basic to the other two. Of course, we are the freest nation in the world, but in our long history our constitutional freedoms have been challenged many times. I seek to prevent the future jeopardy of these freedoms. For instance, officially there was no freedom of speech in the United States until 1969, when the Supreme Court ruled the Ohio Sedition Statutes unconstitutional. Until then, states controlled this freedom, not the federal government.

Davidsonian: Finally, are you currently concentrating on your law practice and taking a backseat politically?

Goodell: That is correct. I’ve got to get Tim educated first, and there are three more after him. (laughter) Right now I am concentrating on the state party. Jacob Javitts, who is 75, may leave a Senate seat vacant. I am backing moderate candidates who show strong leadership.

Irish group performs in 900 Room

Roberts and Crozier have been together the longest time, having been members in 1963 of the now defunct Buttonwoods String Band, also a traditional group. Later they met Sky and together they formed the Potstill Band and the three have been together ever since playing at clubs throughout the east such as Kenny’s Castaways in New York and the Childe Harold in Washington. Other performances include the New England Folk Festival, the Eistodfaad Folk Festival, and the International Festival in Philadelphia.

Sky is the veteran of the group. Record producer, singer-songwriter, poet, and Uileann piper, Sky has been involved in music one way or another for the last seventeen years. As a folk singer, he has a number of albums to his credit on Vanguard and MGM labels. He has sold out Carnegie Hall, represented the United States at the World’s Fair in Montreal, and produced the classic “Last Sessions of Mississippi John Hurt.” For the last five years, Sky has turned his talents to producing Irish music records, traveling to Ireland and recording the musicians himself, and to playing the Uileann pipes for the Potstill Band.

Although everyone in the group has been playing together informally for the last two years, it was in April of 1977 that they decided to form a group. The Potstill Band is unique in its approach to the music and to its instrumentation and interpretation. The addition of the Uileann pipes makes the Potstill Band one of a kind in the United States. The Potstill Band will perform Friday and Saturday nights at 9:30 and 11 in the 900 Room.

First annual fair

The First Annual Spring Frolics Crafts Fair, scheduled for Saturday, April 8, will provide students an opportunity to exhibit their crafts, for display or sale, along with the work of artists throughout the Carolinas. Chambers’ front lawn will host the Fair from 11 am to 6 pm. In case of rain, the displays will be exhibited in the Union. Anyone interested in placing their craft in the fair should contact Amanda.

PIEDMONT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. GENERAL INSURANCE