---

Moliere, the French Shakespeare, takes the stage

By ESTHER BRUCE
Staff Writer

If the ‘here and now’ is getting you down, get away to the ‘then and there’ with the drama department's fall production of Moliere’s comedy, “The Miser.”

When asked to comment on the play, Dr. Rupert Barber, director, immediately responded, “It’s fun!” He added that the set and costumes go together to make this an extremely colorful play.

Barber is also pleased with the way students have been able to handle the style of this 17th-century classic. The play is the first Moliere major production Davidson has done. For those unfamiliar with Moliere, he is considered to be the Shakespeare of France.

The plot of the play is an intricate one in which many characters often seem to be bordering on disaster, usually because of the miser, Harpagon. But the play is a comedy, and the ending miraculously ties all the loose ends together and solves all the problems.

As this is the first 17th-century play our department has done, few costumes could be pulled from stock, Barber observed. Several ornate costumes had to be made from scratch. These costumes as well as the set were designed by Joseph Gardner, drama professor. The play called for several fancy hats from the era. Alice White, senior, created these. Barber also pointed out that the play has an uncommon number of actors making their first appearance in a major production at Davidson. The three veterans out of the fifteen-member cast are senior Brad Christie in the role of Harpagon, Tom Bessellieu as Maitres Jacques, his cook, et. al., and junior Eugene Heath, as a money-lender.

Pete Collins, sophomore, and Donya Boylston, junior, are the Miser’s children who are determined to defy their father if he gets in the way of their plans. Catherine Horine, junior, is Frosine, the local matchmaker. John Richards, freshman, is the daughter’s lover under the guise of a servant. Denise Smith, senior, is the young girl the son wishes to marry; unfortunately, she is also the young girl the father wishes to marry.

Other cast members are Mark Thomas, sophomore, as La Fleche; Mark Kinser, senior, and Rusty Ring, freshman, as an officer and his clerk; these household servants and senior students make a vital appearance in the cast. The student opening is tonight at 7:30 pm and the showings during Parents’ Weekend will be October 27 and 28 at 8:15 pm, and October 28 at 3 pm. The play will be in Hodson Hall at $2.50 per ticket.

---

BRAD CHRISTIE, a veteran of Davidson theatre and the miser in the current production, scolds Bunny Horine, a newcomer to the Davidson stage and a matchmaker in tonight’s production.

---

New Hours:
Tues.-Sat. 4 PM-9 PM
EASTERN STYLE B.B.Q.
SEAFOOD
On Hwy. 21 In Cornelius, N.C.
(1 mile South of Piedmont Bank)
Phone 892-3362

---

Flower Cart
Florist
Main Street
Davidson, N.C.
892-6918

---

Teachers — hundreds of openings Foreign and Domestic
Teachers Box 1063 Vancouver, WA 98666

---

“THE MISER,” the fall major drama production, will open tonight at 7:30 in Hodson Hall.

“THE MISER” is the first Moliere major production Davidson has done. Many of the fancy 17th-century costumes were created exclusively for this production.

---

