NOWG i sssa cee es 105 1-3 oy | Beat aes ara ma 4-6 Py | Fe ares Prarie 71-8 Soorte rec. de 20 All Entertainment......... 12 Volume LXVII, Number TWENTY-FOUR Davidson College, Davidson N.C. 28036 April 21, 1978

HAVE A NICE WEEKEND! Partly cloudy through Saturday with a chance of rain on Sunday. Highs in the upper 60s.

FIJI 1 HEADBALLER Corty Cobve smashes the ball over the screen in Wednesday headball action. The FIJI’s triumphed in this semi-final game over the KA’s, but lost in the finals to the Phi Delts. Headball is but one of the Greek Week activities.

For the handicapped College plans facility changes
By LYNN PEACE Staff Writer

Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended: No otherwise qualified handicapped individual in the United States...shall, solely by reason of handicap, be excluded from the participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance.

Plans are underway to make all opportunities and programs at Davidson accessible to the handicapped. In accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the college is in a process of self-evaluation. The Act called for a Transitional Plan, to be completed by December 31, 1977. The plan, at a minimum, was to identify physical obstructions, describe in detail the methods to be used to make the facilities accessible, and specify the schedule for taking the steps necessary to achieve full program accessibility by June 3, 1980.

According to Director of the Physical Plant Grover C. Meetze, Davidson’s recently established Department of Safety (Gregg Strader) has studied all areas of the campus for accessibility to the handicapped. While Chambers has an elevator, said Meetze, “We’re still looking at the best ways to get into the building.” The solution will probably be a mechanical lift or a ramp, he indicated. The problem with ramps, Meetze remarked, is that they can have no more than an 8.3 percent slope. High steps would require a long ramp. The eating houses, Dana Science Building, Cunningham Fine Arts Building, and the dorms will also be considered for better entrances, said Meetze. “When Martin Science Building is renovated,” said Meetze, “considerations for the handicapped will be worked into construction.” (see MEETZE, page 2)

Duncan requests review
Davidsonian editor Philip Duncan has filed a petition requesting that the Review Board consider certain aspects of the disciplinary action taken against him last week by the Hearing Committee. The petition, submitted to Dean of Students Will Terry Wednesday, requests that the Board consider if the sanction of probation imposed on Duncan is “essentially appropriate in the total context.”

Duncan’s defense advisor Harry Greyard explained that “the question is not one of guilt or innocence; we entered a plea of guilty. There are questions, however, as to whether probation is an appropriate sanction.” Last week Duncan pleaded guilty to interfering with the rights of Professor Alan Wolf “to maintain private possession over the contents of his faculty mailbox”—a violation of Section IV of the College Code of Responsibility. The Hearing Committee sentenced Duncan to probation (exclusion from extracurricular activities) for the remainder of the 1977-78 school year.

Terry will transfer copies of Duncan’s petition to the Secretaries of the Hearing Committee and the Review Board. Under the code of Responsibility, the Board shall render a decision on the case within 15 days after receiving the record of the Hearing Committee's proceedings.

$11,000 short of requests ATC determines budget allotments
By CHARLES ERWIN Staff Writer

Forced to whittle more than $11,000 off of the total amount of money requested by campus organizations to operate with next year, the Activities Tax Council (ATC) chose to “take a hard line” during their Monday and Tuesday meetings, according to Chairman Marc Jackowitz. They flatly refused to fund the Davidson Christian Fellowship. They stripped all but $600, out of the $2000 awarded last year, away from the fledgling Experimental Philosophy Journal. They reduced the 1978-79 budget requests of over half of those organizations traditionally funded by the Council to levels either equal to or less than whatis currently being received. They awarded a substantial increase to only one organization, The Davidsonian, even though three-fourths of the groups asked for more money next year. Two other organizations were awarded small increases. At the same time, however, the Council earmarked $1,100 to be used in launching a new campus literary magazine. Jackowitz explained that the record $58,500 available to the Tax Council for distributions was eaten up by the equally record-breaking $69,952 requested by twelve student organizations. The $11,452 gap between these two figures created one big headache for the Council. In partial anticipation of the problem, the activities tax was raised by $5 earlier this year—bringing to $45 the amount levied upon every student. But this just was not enough and there is already talk of raising the tax again next year. “It could be that there might well be a recommendation next year that the tax be increased. I just don’t know whether it will be successful or not,” said College Business Manager and Tax-Council member Robert Currie. There has been an “increasing disparity each year,” according to Currie, between the money students say they need and the amount the Council has to give. For the last several years the gap has hovered around $7,000, but this year it took a big jump—mostly due to a $6,610 rise in the amount requested by The Davidsonian. In addition, organizations which, according to Jackowitz, only serve a part of the student community were beginning to come to the Council for help. “We saw it happening this year and we decided to take a hard line in order to clarify what organizations should be funded and what organizations should not be funded,” said Jackowitz. “We have got to apply the acid test of whether an organization serves the entire community,” Jackowitz charged the committee on Tuesday afternoon as they reviewed a request for $325 from the Davidson Christian Fellowship. The Fellowship was seeking (see TIGHT, page 3)

Just what are our rights?
By BILL PEEPLES
Features Editor

Dr. Carl Cohen brought controversy to Davidson on Monday and Tuesday by revealing his views on what is morally right and wrong in current events. His discussions ranged from a defense of the National Socialist (Nazi) Party of America to national racial and sexual discrimination. Dr. Cohen’s visit was sponsored by the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation. He is Professor of Political Philosophy at the University of Michigan. In referring to the Nazi movement, Dr. Cohen discussed the Nazi efforts to march in protest in Skokie, Illinois. Skokie is a predominantly Jewish suburb of Chicago. Cohen agreed that the Jewish community would suffer from such a protest. However, he joined the American Civil Liberties Union in supporting the planned march, which has finally been approved in court. He cited several philosophical and legal explanations for his opinions. Legally, the “clear and present danger” doctrine of constitutional law does not apply. He refuted this argument (see COHEN, page 7)

Is the press doing its job?
By CATHY ANSHELES
Staff Writer

Unlike national survey polls, Godfrey “Budge” Sperling is able to “warm up” the people he interviews, which makes him feel “confident that my assessment of the public attitude is pretty close to the mark.” One source for obtaining news for his column in The Christian Science Monitor is Sperling’s Breakfast Club. Started nearly 13 years ago, the club’s first guest was Charles Percy who was then running for Senator of Illinois. Although the number of reporters present at the first gathering was few, the event made quite a bit of news. The frequency of the breakfasts increased after several years and “Budge” says he now hosts these forums two or three times a week. Despite the fact that the format at the Sheraton Carlton Hotel in Washington, D.C., is extremely informal, Sperling emphasized that the reporters “don’t throw softballs.” The contact with leading politicians that the breakfast club provides is considered by The Washington Post's Nicholas Von Hoffman to be “invaluable to political writers.”