April 7, 1978 The Davidsonian

Faculty hiring reaches final stages

(Continued from page 1)

...above the rest and seemed to completely fulfill all the necessary qualifications, according to Jackson. Warren visited the campus and met students, faculty, and administrators. Jackson said he got varied student reactions, but nothing negative. Also, the faculty was polled. “Everyone seemed to feel he was a good choice. I think they trusted my recommendation,” said Jackson.

Physics

The Physics Department and the administration decided Wednesday on the final selection of a candidate to replace Professor of Physics John I. Hopkins, who is retiring. “Our first choice turned out to be the administration’s first choice. Presumably, an offer is going out to him this afternoon,” said Professor of Physics Locke White, Jr. White added, “He’s a mighty strong candidate and I hope he accepts.”

According to White, the department was looking for a younger person with particular competence in astronomy and low temperature physics. Close to two hundred applications were received in response to an advertisement. White also interviewed applicants at the convention of the American Physics Society in San Francisco. The department also sent notices of the opening to some women’s institutions in the Southeast hoping to get an increased number of qualified applicants. However, White said, only one woman was under consideration after the preliminary screening and she was not chosen as one of the four final candidates. White said, “We had a whole lot of Orientals and Asiatics apply, but none of the applicants I know to be black.” All of the four final candidates were white males.

Each of the four top candidates had lunch with the senior and junior physics majors and gave a colloquium. White said, “We consulted the students for their reactions, superficially, I’m sorry to say. Time sort of got away from us. There was a pretty clear consensus among the students.” White said that Zimmermann had told him that any disagreements between the administration and the department would be resolved by discussion. However, White noted, “They can make the offer and we can’t.”

Religion

The Religion Department is in the process of making final selections for a permanent replacement for former Professor of Religion Gordon Michalson, said Professor of Religion Alexander McKelway, Jr. The top four candidates have already visited the campus and been interviewed by the administration and the department. McKelway said, “There were around a hundred applicants. We were looking for someone who could teach an introductory course in Buddhism, teach an introductory course in religious phenomenology (the study of religion), and show theological and philosophical competence.”

McKelway commented, “We received applications from people of almost every religion. The fact is there was not a non-Christian to our knowledge who seemed to us to be completely qualified for the position. All those that we felt had the credentials turned out to be Christians.” Each of the top four candidates gave a lecture which students attended, and students were then informally consulted. “Student opinion is certainly an important factor. We definitely seek student participation in the evaluation process. Their opinions seemed to be close to our opinions,” explained McKelway.

There have been no major conflicts between the department and administration over the selection of the candidates. McKelway said, “We find the department recommendation weighs very heavily. At least we have not been frustrated.” He added, “It’s not that the administration rubber stamps our decision. Our own selection process has been effective.”

Sociology

The Sociology Department is seeking a senior professor to chair the department, a position vacated by Professor of Sociology Joseph T. Drake in 1977. Acting Department Chairman Robert D. Ruth pointed out that the candidate chosen for the position will come in with academic tenure. “We will have to be extra careful in the sense that if we make a mistake it could haunt us for decades,” he said. Zimmermann explained, “In a junior candidate we're looking for promise. For a tenured position the standards are more severe. We want to see the evidence now. If their talent hasn’t developed by now, it’s not going to.”

Ruth described the department’s expansion as being very important in terms of new areas and having a more just and adequate department. The Sociology Department has a higher student-faculty ratio than any other, he noted. The ideal candidate, remarked Ruth, would have a strong background in several areas including population and demography, race and ethnic relations, collective behavior and social movement, social deviance, methodology and statistics, and women’s studies. There were approximately 45 applicants for the position of Department Chairman. Spencer has said from the beginning of our...Search, and Zimmermann has re-echoed that we are going to give every possible consideration to minority candidates, particularly blacks and women,” said Ruth. Three candidates, one a woman, have already visited the campus. Three to six Sociology majors have had the opportunity to meet the candidates at each meal, said Ruth, and have been responsible for raising some excellent questions. “We put them through the paces even when they’re eating,” he remarked.

Each visiting candidate teaches a class, said Ruth. “In each instance, we have used Dr. Myers’ 8:00 Intro.”

Psychology

The Psychology Department will bring in a new Child and Development Psychologist to replace retiring Professor of Psychology Jay H. Ostwalt. Department Chairman John D. Kelton estimated that there were over 100 applicants for the job. Three candidates have already been to the campus, with a fourth coming next week, he said. Three of the candidates under serious consideration are women. “The last years have been unusual in not having any women in the Psychology Department,” said Kelton. There were women on the Psychology staff as early as 1950, he noted. Students have come into contact with the psychology candidates, picking them up at the airport, inviting them to the eating houses, and hearing the professors’ colloquia.

French

The French Department has an opening for a fourth full-time professor. Professor of French Lauren W. Yoder explained that the French department seeks someone with “near native fluency in French, a great deal of experience abroad, and experience leading a student group abroad.” If all these requirements are filled, he added, the department could also use a member with a specialty in the 18th century. There were over 100 applicants for the position. Four candidates have been visiting Davidson for final consideration. “At least two of these were non-Christian,” said Yoder. Student contact with and reaction to candidates are of “primary importance,” remarked Yoder. Candidates meet with the French International Students as well, he added.

History

Although Professor of History David Rice will be leaving, Professor of History Malcolm Lester stated, “We will not be making a permanent appointment in History at this time.” Lester explained, “It’s too late for us to enter into a full-scale search for a new professor. We prefer to recruit in the fall.” “We may have a visiting professor; negotiations haven't been completed. There are several people we are in contact with. It might well be in the summer before we know definitely.”

Political Science

In the Political Science Department, it is still uncertain if Professor of Political Science and Director of the South Asia Program Tonia K. Devon will be replaced this year. Professor of Political Science Harris Proctor stated, “We will not take steps to replace her until she indicates she will be leaving. She can remain at Davidson the rest of this year and next year.” Proctor added, “As far as we know, she doesn’t plan to leave at the end of this year. We have prepared the schedule for next year on the assumption that she will be here. We're not doing anything right now—just waiting.” Proctor also said the main job to be filled would be Director of the South Asia Program.

Hiring Procedure

The building of a faculty, from the technical standpoint, flows from the Trustees to the President, who delegates it to the Vice President for Academic Affairs. He usually delegates the responsibility to the relevant department chairman. The department chairman initiates the search, puts the advertisement in educational journals, and interviews the candidates. He and tenured members do the initial screening. The chairman comes back with six to eight dossiers. He then talks to the Vice President and they decide on three or four to invite onto campus. The candidates are interviewed by Spencer and Zimmermann, and the chairman of the relevant department. The candidate is often asked to give a class or presentation. On that basis, the department decides and makes a recommendation to the Vice President. The ultimate responsibility for a decision lies with the President. It usually is the person the department has recommended. College President Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. commented, “Student input is a factor. It should not be overdone, though. The total record is more important than the one performance deal. It is a joint project. We're trying to get the best information possible because we want a distinctive faculty. We don’t accept just what we have on paper. We follow every lead.”

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. GENERAL CONTRACTORS P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C. M. A. WICKER President and Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary