January 20, 1978

PCC: By STEVE AUSTIN Staff Writer

The Patterson Court Council has met and made plans for self-selection 1978, but the Advisory Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) has yet to make its recommendation.

The CCRL Subcommittee on Patterson Court spent some time last term examining suggested changes in the self-selection system. Professor of Chemistry Felix A. Carroll, who is chairman of the subcommittee, presented proposals at two different meetings of the CCRL. At issue were a computer-based system that would have allowed students to rank their house preferences and a dual system distinguishing between fraternity and eating clubs. All proposals were rejected by the CCRL, and Carroll said he could not justify spending more time on the subject.

Since that time, CCRL chairman Will H. Terry planned to work out a compromise proposal during Christmas break, but his efforts were delayed by illness. A proposal will be presented Monday, January 23 to the CCRL.

The PCC, which met January 11, adopted a plan similar to last year. The council, which is composed of representatives from the Patterson Court houses, set February 16 as self-selection night. With up to six people in a row, each row will be called by lottery to leave Love Auditorium. In the art gallery, the ten houses may be signed for on a first-come basis. The PCC will try to correct last year’s problem of calling the rows too quickly and clogging up the art gallery. The procedure will probably take two hours.

The issue of waiting lists and whether upperclassmen will have preference over freshmen has still to be determined. According to PCC president, Kathryn Bridges, self-selection is “simply a matter of luck. They know that it’s not the best system; it really is not going to work here.” She does not believe major criticism will come until after the process is completed. Bridges’ advice to freshmen about fraternities is, “If you aren't welcome, don’t try joining.” She hopes that unfortunate situations can be avoided if individuals will be sensitive to how they are received in the houses.

Contribution worth $1 million Davidson receives

By LYNN PEACE Staff Writer

Davidson College President Samuel R. Spencer announced this week that the college has been given an 860-acre tract near Raleigh. The land is valued at more than $1 million and is the largest “deferred gift” in the College’s history. The contribution was made by Patrick Dowd Gray and his sister Mary Alice Gray. Neither had any previous ties with Davidson. Part of the gift will be restricted to providing the Grays with a fixed income for the rest of their lives. After all costs are met, the college expects to net more than half a million dollars.

Director of special resources Julius Melton said that Davidson and several other private North Carolina colleges were given the opportunity to discuss the possible gift with the Grays’ attorneys. Melton explained to the Grays the detailed philanthropic opportunities in Davidson's 1987 Program (which aims to raise $35 million by our 150th anniversary). The Grays decided, after careful consideration, to donate the land to Davidson, and will select some aspect of the 1987 Program to memorialize their ancestors. The Grays wrote, “It will be a great satisfaction for us to feel that we had a little part in helping Davidson College provide facilities to allow more students to receive a higher education.”

Melton's experience and professional approach to deferred giving are credited as the key reasons for the Grays' selection of Davidson as the recipient of the gift.

Spencer concluded.

Spencer gives high power go-ahead

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN News Editor

College President Samuel R. Spencer has given WDAV authorization to begin broadcasting at 18,540 watts on May 1. WDAV currently operates at 10 watts. The station has raised the necessary funds and is ready to proceed with the upgrade.estimated that, considering the market, the land will take between two and five years to sell. "When it is sold and what we have at the time for projects in progress" will likely dictate how the money is used, he explained. There is a need to purchase the necessary equipment and Executive Director of WDAV, Don Lovell, said, "We’re assuming we'll have raised it all by May 1," indicating that fundraising efforts will continue indefinitely. Lovell stated that the facilities need substantial improvements, but the studio is "adequate for broadcasting." He added that automated equipment for broadcasting during summer and holidays is an option for the future.

WDAV Station Manager Carrington Thompson was optimistic about the financial outlook, basing his optimism on past experience. He pointed out that the College gave the go-ahead on the construction of Richardson Dorm and the library before that money was entirely raised. "Once you've got that much money raised, you can be pretty sure you're going to get the rest of it," he remarked. Spencer added, "We do a lot of things of faith. You must make a judgment somewhere along the line as to when you take that leap of faith." He says that the College feels it has enough money now to take that leap.

The College has raised about half of the money needed to renovate the Marting Science Building, which Spencer likened to the WDAV situation. Repairs of the building will begin in the spring. Costs were cut immensely by the donation of an antenna by radio station WLDS. Transco Oil Company had given WDAV a tower earlier. WDAV's construction permit granted by the FCC gives the station permission to increase to 18,540 watts, but expires on May 1 unless adequate progress is shown by that time. Lovell stated, "We have made sufficient progress."

If the station does not raise all of the capital cost of $70,000 by the May 1 target date, it can ask for an extension. There were no indications that the College would assume any of the capital costs in the event that the WDAV station does not raise the $70,000 by May 1. The College will, however, pay an annual operating cost of $25,000. Thompson hopes that the higher-powered station will bring in more contributions to the College, but no one is sure if WDAV will be able to support itself. Spencer said the impact of the station will be "very hard to measure." Lovell agrees that the reaction will be "virtually non-measurable." He believes that the service WDAV is providing is the most important aspect of the station. "We're serving a double purpose," he explained, taking Davidson to the community at large and providing a service; there is no classical music station in the area."

Lovell says there will be enough support for the station, citing Charlotte’s cultural growth. Thompson concurred, "There’s a definite void in radio programming in the area. As of right now, the only classical music you can get is the UNC station, which signs on at 3 pm. For jazz, you have to stay up to 2 am and listen to WROQ to get it." The programming at present is about 58 percent contemporary music, 31 percent classical music, 10 percent jazz, as well as folk music, children’s, and talk shows. When the station begins high-power broadcasting, approximately 30 hours of contemporary programming will be shifted to educational and public affairs.

WDAV has exclusive broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera, the Cleveland Orchestra, the Cleveland Pops, the Boston Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Lyric Opera, and the Chicago Symphony. Thompson commented, "Getting the Metropolitan Opera is just amazing. Usually, they don’t consider (granting broadcasting contracts) until the first of the season. They took us on in the middle of the season."

BEST FOOD EAST OF TULSA
HAPPY HOURS THURSDAY & FRIDAY 8:30-10 PM
Take Outs 892-8606