February 17, 1978

7 STEP tutors discuss diverse and overwhelming benefits; find few drawbacks with STEP program

By ANN B. GARNER
FOCUS Editor

“We can’t really see fully into the child's mind and know just how much he appreciates and looks forward to
this,” explained Eugene Heath concerning the STEP tutor program.

The STEP program was initiated six years ago by the Davidson YMCA to provide children in grades 2-6 from Davidson
Elementary with a “big brother/big sister” as well as to help them with problems in schoolwork. Yet, as Meg Campbell,
who leads the STEP block, states, “The strongest emphasis was placed on the relationship aspect.” Campbell continued, “This year, we
are continuing to stress the benefits of forming a strong relationship with the child, but with an increased emphasis upon
some sort of academic tutoring.”

Lynn Grice outlined her goals as a STEP tutor. “I’m helping her find the motivation within herself. By listening to
her read, I can give her positive reinforcement without being a teacher figure.”

“The program is pretty much what you make of it,” added John Davis. “There is not much structural guidance which
gives you the chance to tutor in a non-pressured atmosphere.”

The tutors are expected to meet with their child one afternoon a week with the first half an hour usually
devoted to academics. Jamie Watt, who also leads this “block,” pointed out another reason for the new shift of emphasis.
“We're trying to keep it from being too superficial. To have a STEP tutor is a status symbol for kids.
I think the kids are more willing to study when they know that they have to with a tutor.”

Many tutors discover added dimensions to the STEP tutor program other than just academic needs of the children. “With my
child, I find that emotionally, I am sort of a big sister to her,” explained Grice. “Both her parents work
and as a result, they don't always have free afternoons to play with her.”

“We have built a very strong trusting relationship and through that she’s taking initiative on her own; being creative in
her own way.”

In outlining several problems with STEP, Campbell pointed out that “The biggest problem is continuity. There are 86 tutors participating
in the program. In the past, we have had trouble keeping up with all the tutors to make sure that
things are running smoothly.” Grice elaborated, “I get frustrated when I see those who don't follow through. The tutors are
the most important thing to them. To win their confidence and then to step out because of academics is to
me a total cop-out.” Heath added, “When people don't continue, the kid doesn’t know what to think. He just can't
understand.”

“Another drawback,” said Campbell, “is that through the STEP tutor program, the children begin to enjoy coming on campus. But
when they reach seventh grade they're not allowed. It’s not really fair to the child. I'd like to look into
a similar program for the junior highs.”

Currently, Watt is working on new plans and programs for the near future such as a STEP library with books
and games; encouraging tutors to take their children to the new school house of the arts; a nurse to speak
to the tutors about establishing relationships with children; and small group trips during the spring that will enable the fraternities
and eating houses to get involved.

For most STEP tutors, however, the benefits prove to be overwhelming. “At Davidson, it’s very easy to get wrapped up
in your studies. The Y's strong point is indeed its outward focus,” said Campbell. Allen Laws agreed, “Tutoring provides you
with a different perspective on Davidson and also enables you to see life from a kid's point of view.”

“For one day a week I can be eight-years-old,” concluded Grice. “It is the most warming experience for me here.
It helps me keep my sanity.”

A medley of alternatives for involvement

President of the Davidson YM/YWCA Glen Darbyshire, “No matter how trite or small a project seems to be, you can
learn to organize, administrate, or get experience in recognizing activities on campus; far from it. It is any different activities
within its events.”have many misconceptions derived primarily from the town YM/YWCA’s (I might add it may soon be changed to
prevent misconceptions). Faculty arrive here assuming it is to play games and to learn retreat. It has been remarked that
the YMCA is a country club, a convenient stop on the way. Some associate the Y with Bible study. The
YMCA fits none of these descriptions. It is an organization, pure and simple. While many students participate in its activities
out of commitment, many others do so out of humanism, a desire to improve relationships. The activities reflect a diversity
of student interest and include the CROP meals, the Depot lunch program, the Huntersville Prison Ministry, the Day Care Center,
the Home Winterization Program, and other programs that offer students plenty of opportunities to step out of the academic cocoon,
to experience life, and to recognize that there are others across the tracks and behind bars who need help. Davidson
students do care enough to engage in service projects, whether under the Y’s direction or not. The Davidson YM/YWCA is
composed of dedicated individuals. But more ambitious goals established by the Y will only materialize if students decide that they
have time for such activities. If not, the terms “docile,” “self-centered,” and “apathetic” that have been charged in recent issues
of the Jeremiahs are correct.

“Our community needs. It’s an eye-opening experience.” Darbyshire hopes that the Y will be used to “funnel student interest in
service projects.” As part of an effort to have a more efficient and effective Y, there have been some organizational
changes.

New Organization
Y programs are now divided into 10 blocks, each headed by a leader or block-head. According to Darbyshire, this will
allow for a smoother operation and a better delegation of responsibilities. He went on to add that this would make
it easier for the block-heads “to get to interested people and to keep up with those people.” Furthermore, under this
system, students could work on areas of specific interest and not become too overloaded.

Blocks/Projects
The most prominent of the Y’s ten blocks include, according to a YM/YWCA report:
1) the STEP - Standardized Tutorial Educational Program in which over 80 Davidson students provide academic and social help to
elementary school students,
2) the CROP program which sponsors weekly lunches, the proceeds from which go to alleviate world hunger,
3) the North Mecklenburg YMCA program which recruits students to direct and staff programs at the North Mecklenburg Y in
Cornelius,
4) the prison visitation program at Huntersville,
5) the Depot lunch program that is used to stimulate informal interaction between students, faculty, administration, and townspeople, and
6) the Environmental block that is currently involved in a glass recycling project and in a letter-writing campaign opposed to
the building of the Trotter Shoals Dam.

Besides these blocks, Darbyshire stresses that the Y can provide funding for any student who has an idea for a
service project. Vice President of the YM/YWCA Bonnie Wright added that, “If a student has a specific project we can
also help him get manpower and publicity.”

Prospective Activities
Projects that the Y has investigated but not yet instituted include tutoring for junior high school students, discussion groups, an
Adopt-a-Senior program, and activities at the Davidson Public Library including a film afternoon and puppet shows for children. These projects
and many others have been researched and have Y members willing to organize them if student interest is great enough.
Projects that the Y is currently investigating include faculty open houses, preparing a slide show to present at freshman orientation
to acquaint students with the community and its needs, and the possibility of registering students to vote in Davidson.

Name Change
The Y is also considering undergoing a name change. The organization is no longer officially affiliated with the YMCA and
Darbyshire feels that students apply misleading connotations because of the name. However, it does have “student recognition” therefore a possible
name change will probably wait until next year. According to Wright, “The Y has an extreme amount of potential. At
our meetings, people get very excited about what we could do.” But Darbyshire adds, “the programs aren’t of ultimate importance
unless people want to be involved -- their willingness to serve is the most important thing.”
