2 The Davidsonian May 12, 1978

News at a glance

Bad checks enrage locals

As the end of school nears, the SGA Bad Check Committee has been receiving urgent complaints from local merchants. Delinquent checks have mounted to over a hundred dollars recently, with complaints totaling over $75.00 from Cashion’s alone. Davidson's students are urged to cooperate with the Committee. Disciplinary procedures are at the discretion of the Dean of Students and may include withholding of grades and warrants from Davidson Police. The Committee recommends that students not close accounts at local banks before last-minute checks have been cleared. If any questions/complaints arise, contact Will Terry or Bill Peeples.

Clark reestablishes Forum

The Interorganizational Forum, an organization involving the heads of various campus organizations, has been revived by Union President Mary Jo Clark. Last active two years ago, the forum met on a weekly basis to discuss pending activities. Members are the heads of the SGA, WDAYV, the Black Student Coalition, the YMCA, the College Union, and the Patterson Court Council. The focus of the Forum, according to Clark, will be “a more unified approach through increased awareness of one another’s programs.” Contributors: Bill Peeples and Ann Sheaffer.

...faculty gives PAC committee proposal

(Continued from page 1)

an optimistic view. Five years is meeting.” He expressed his reservations about the new development. “The last time such a proposal came up was five years ago. I hope they’ll bring this proposal back before that long. The worst thing would be if the PAC sits on it too long.” a pessimistic estimate. We can’t afford to wait that long.” MacCormac also expressed concern that students support and show interest in having student representatives on the proposed committee. “If students don’t speak out in behalf of this proposal, how can I argue for having students on the committee?” he remarked.

The Shop 663-4513 334 S Academy Mooresville, N.C. Electronic Service and Sales

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC. GENERAL CONTRACTORS P.O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611 MOORESVILLE, N.C. M. N. WICKER President and Treasurer BEN L. MILLSAPS Executive Vice-President and Secretary

...Trustees vote to sell land

(Continued from page 1)

The IMC also discussed the Grey land gift. The 860-acre tract near Raleigh has been valued at more than $1 million and is the largest “deferred gift” in the College’s history. The Trustees decided that the land should be sold at a reasonable price as soon as possible, said Spencer. The Executive Committee also heard a proposal from a group of citizens from Charlotte interested in child abuse prevention. The group proposes that the college work with them on this project. The response of the Board seemed favorable, according to Spencer. The Development Committee discussed the development consultant’s report. It was recommended that the Trustees meet to deal in depth with the college, its development, and the Trustees’ relation to the college’s development, said Spencer. “The Trustees need to be thoroughly grounded in the goals of the 1987 plan,” he added. “They decided to devote their meeting in September to this.” The Development Committee also reported to the Board of

...search continues for new professors

(Continued from page 1)

tic about all around,” remarked Zimmermann. The search for a Sociology Department Chairman is still open and will begin anew in the fall, according to Zimmermann. Professor of Sociology Robert D. Ruth will remain acting chairman of the department, he said. “There is a great likelihood for making a temporary appointment in the Sociology Department,” remarked Zimmermann. Although two departments recommended women for positions, no offers have been made to women. “I think there will be before the search is over,” said Zimmermann. “We are straining our categories and one of these is women,” he explained. Michael J. Root, 27, was hired as an Instructor of Religion. His specialty is modern theology and he will be offering courses which include the criticism of religion as well as Buddhism. Root received his B.A. at Dartmouth and his M.A. in Philosophy at Yale.where his Ph.D. is in progress. Laurence S. Cain, 32, is a new Assistant Professor of Physics. He brings the department a specialty in solid state physics. Cain received his B.S. at Wake Forest and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees at Virginia. For the past two years, Cain has served as a lecturer and research assistant at UNC Chapel Hill.

The French Department has hired George W. Poe, 26, as an Assistant Professor. Poe graduated from Davidson with Honors in French, received his M.A. from Middlebury, and is completing his doctorate at Duke. Roger M. Lauverjat, currently a professor of French literature at the Institute for Foreign Students, University of Montpellier, will be the visiting lecturer in French next year.

Retired Professor of History Alexander McGeachy will return to the History Department next year to fill the position vacated by David Rice. The search for a new permanent professor will begin in the fall, according to Zimmermann.

Trustees announced that Davidson has received an all-time high record of gifts this year. "We are already over the $3 million mark, primarily because of the anonymous gift last August," said Vice President for Development Duane Dittman. "Davidson’s 1987 plan already counts more than $6 million in gifts received and in future commitments," he concluded.

The Education Committee made five appointments to the 1978-79 faculty and recommended faculty members for promotion, sabbaticals, leave, consideration for tenure, and retirement. Professor of Art Herb Jackson, Professor of Chemistry Roger Nutt, Professor of Biology J.L. Putnam, and Professor of Philosophy John J. Young were promoted to associate professor. Professor of Drama Joseph Gardner, Professor of Spanish Bohdan Hlibtschuk, Professor of Music William Lawing, and Professor of Mathematics Kay Smith were promoted to assistant professor.

Ten professors will go on sabbatical next year. Those receiving a year’s sabbatical were Professor of Chemistry Ralph Gable, Professor of French Everett Jacobus, and Professor of Biology Donald Kimmel. Professor of Economics Randall Kincaid was granted one year’s leave. Professor of English Richard Cole will take leave for one term. Professors of Chemistry Felix Carroll and Merlyn Schuh and Professor of Classics Mark Davies were approved for tenure. Professor of Physics John Hopkins, Professor of Art Douglas Houchens, and Professor of Psychology J.H. Ostwalt are retiring this year.

...Board approves Duncan’s request (Continued from page 1)

reminded me that once a mistake is made, it is most important to rebound and learn from it. "And finally, my thanks to the newspaper staff. The staff I brought in with me in January was young (predominantly freshmen and sophomores), and at the time I stepped aside from the editorship many were just beginning to feel ‘at home’ with the responsibility I had asked them to assume. In my absence, they were burdened with learning new working relationships and assuming heavier responsibilities. Yet through it all, no one on the staff missed a step and the quality of The Davidsonian has continued to improve.

"Special thanks to Pam Camerra, who knew the work she was in for if she accepted the editorship and still took on the task. Pam had served in a different position each term she has worked with the newspaper—from staff writer to assistant news editor to news editor to acting editor—and, throughout, her commitment to The Davidsonian has been extraordinary. That commitment will be sorely missed while Pam spends her Junior Year Abroad in Germany next year.

"I am very proud of the dedication to quality displayed by the entire newspaper staff this year, and I eagerly anticipate the opportunity to work with them again at the conclusion of this term."

Professional married couple seeks 2-bedroom home for summer, possibly longer. References available. 875-1361 ext. 395 or 588-2219 — Call:

At the Copeland House Gallery
New Star Wars Posters Have Just Arrived. $1.50
Take One Home (after exams) For A Galactic Size Welcome from the Kid Brother (or Sister)
305 N. Main St. Davidson
‘Your source for Grumbacher art supplies’