February 10, 1978

Tre Davidsonian

Lack of interest hinders Miscellany

By BETH LAWING
Staff Writer

It is a thankless job—lots of work, little glamour. But for new Miscellany editors Gary Hart and Patsy Daniels, the
task is but an interesting challenge. These literary enthusiasts are responsible for the selection and organization of original works published
in Davidson’s literary review.

The Miscellany, although dedicated to publishing only quality material, “is not a very good publication.” This admission comes from Bill
Barnes, graduating senior and past Miscellany editor. He believes “if there were better support from the English department, if there
were more emphasis and encouragement of creative writing, perhaps it would improve.”

Student involvement left without such encouragement, “is rather low,” says Daniels. And Hart comments, “The interest isn’t there... it fluctuates.”
The review survives in the midst of the apathy through its position as a national publication. According to Daniels, “most
of the contributors are not from the school... We generally get only three short stories and ten poems from the
kids (here).” The contributing authors are from around the country, often college professors and students interested in general exposure, sometimes
semi-professionals. The size and content of the magazine are primarily determined by the number of quality materials received from these
authors.

According to Barnes, his last issue, due out soon, will be comprised entirely of poetry. “The fiction we received was
so bad,” he says he felt they had no other choice. The Spring 1978 issue, Hart and Daniels’ first, will
hopefully be able to provide a greater variety.

Hart and Daniels also have ideas for improving the quality of the Miscellany. Besides changing the cover, they plan to
alter the distribution procedure. “We used to put them in the boxes in Belk... but students weren’t picking them up.”

The late winter sun rises pallidly above the bare treeline. Days are lengthening now and sap is beginning to rise,
buds are forming.

About the time the leaves on the Tulip Poplars began to turn yellow last fall, Sophomore John Donato stopped me
as I was walking towards the library. “I want you to get somebody to write a story on the way
that everybody always trudges around campus with their eyes on the ground. How they never look up to see how
beautiful everything is; they’re so tied up in their own little problems.” He had the look of someone who had
just bothered to look up himself after spending a month with his eyes on the ground. The sky was blue
that day and he seemed happy. We talked a while longer and then parted.

As I walked towards the library, I noticed that a lot of students were just watching themselves put one foot
ahead of the other. And the rest seemed to be staring ahead with an empty glare, pausing only to mumble
“Hi” whenever in danger of running into someone else. But I never tried to get anybody to do the story.

It’s February now, the springtime of springtime, and as I was trudging across the asphalt walk in front of Belk
Dorm with my eyes to the ground, I just managed to swerve aside fast enough to avoid running into a
blonde freshman with a psychology book.in her hand. “Hi,” I mumbled in apology.

“Hi,” she replied, furtively lifting up her eyes. She tucked the book to her side and walked on. I heard
a Song Sparrow singing. Not very far away. Sounded as if it came from the bare trees by Watts. Yes,
there in the top, almost the highest twig. The sky was blue.

As I approached my eating house, there was a Cardinal singing on a branch right over the road. I forgot
whatever it was that kept my eyes on the ground and felt happy. Just after somebody asked me to pass
the tea at lunch, I noticed that everyone seemed to be in a somber mood.

“This is one of the first days of spring,” I said. No one lifted up their eyes.

“I saw a Song Sparrow singing on my way down,” I said. “And a Cardinal.” Somebody reached for the biscuits.

“You know, it’s really bad the way we take so many things for granted,” I said.

I remembered John Donato then. I think I understood them.

“They foresee setting up a table in Chambers where interested students and faculty may pick up their copies, thus eliminating
monetary losses on unused magazines. The two have also sent out several hundred subscription notices. They have never done that
before,” says Daniels, but hope it will renew interest and generate more readers and contributors.

So life as a Miscellany editor consists of subscription notices, bills, rejection slips, and reading tons of lousy material,” sighs
Barnes. But there are lighter moments. Take for example the lady who sent in her crowning achievement—a story dealing with
people who cut off their private parts. Or take the time when the files were in such a mess that
some important correspondence was lost. A letter indicating ‘a small fire’ was sent to the two institutions involved, who kindly
reciprocated with the necessary copies. And then there was the time...

The Red Maple between Dana and the Union seems about to bloom.

[Hunter Jennings]

We hope to better serve the needs of our area with greatly increased gallery space. Our professional picture framing service
is moved to the new location and continues under the able supervision of Susan Abbott. The inventory expansion at the
new gallery (new stock is arriving now) will include:
- a wider selection of frames, prints, posters
- office and school supplies
- and a full line of art supplies

And at The Village Store! A spring remodeling is scheduled. New merchandise will continue to arrive daily so come in,
shop and watch our progress!

We appreciate your interest and continued goodwill at this time. Your patronage in our past 12 years in Davidson has
made this growth possible. We look forward to serving you and the community more fully.

Irene and Taylor Blackwell
The Village Store
The Copeland House Gallery of the Village Store at 305 N. Main St., Davidson, N.C.

The Village Store is expanding! Our gallery, art and office supplies are moved to the Copeland House. At our present
location, we will be rearranging to accommodate our growing stock.
