Volume LXVII, Number TWO
September 15, 1978

Code readied
By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. News Editor

For the first time in its 141-year history, Davidson College may soon have a comprehensive Code of Faculty Evaluation. In last Friday’s scheduled meeting, the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) considered and recommended further changes in the proposed Code. This draft, the document’s second, is being revised by Academic Vice-President and Dean of Faculty Price Zimmermann and was to be released this morning.

Professor of History Brown Patterson, who was elected PAC chairman Friday, commented, “There were no major differences between the draft and our recommendations. We did make some changes and I feel we are fairly near being able to finish the Code.” Patterson also noted that the new draft will go before the entire faculty at its Tuesday meeting, rather than before the PAC. Regarding a timetable for the Code’s completion, he added, “This might be the final draft. If we do have problems we hadn’t anticipated we will have plenty of time for consideration. We don’t want to curtail attempts at further improvements or modifications.”

In an interview Wednesday, Zimmermann talked about the changes he made in his original draft as a result of PAC and student recommendations. Asked about religious wording in the old draft which met with opposition, Zimmermann said, “We’ve smoothed over the language and have brought it into complete conformity in word as well as in spirit. There is nothing that would be a block to a non-Christian.” Moreover, he mentioned that “large sections of it were rewritten by the PAC.” Among these was a condensation, from 6 to 3, in the number of criterion areas that would guide the review of a faculty member. Zimmermann pointed out that this is a “more concise” draft of the document: “In many cases the Code called for the Dean to solicit the advice of tenured members of the department in reviewing professors. ‘Tenured’ has been dropped in those phrases.” The Academic Vice-President also noted the deletion of “physical vigor” as a criterion for consideration.

In commenting on the student role in the ongoing deliberations, SGA Vice-President John Jackson said, “We have been hesitant to get completely involved, as it involves mainly the faculty and the administration. We realize that we don’t have the ability to assess the competence of instructors.”

TOGA, TOGA, TOGA: All it took was a sheet, a seaman’s cap, and a clarinet for Senior Steve Lewis to add a little pep to last Saturday’s football game. He and other Pep Band members have become as much a feature of Davidson's athletic encounters as the teams themselves.

Drop-Add Over
Irv Wilson

According to General Manager Carrington Thompson, the focus pp. 485 prior to the Administration’s action. He said, “(Director of WDAV) Don Lovell had talked to me a few days before, and suggested we have one person pick up the mail. The next thing I knew, the box was shut down.” Lovell said the box closing was “strictly a business move. activity now.” Lovell asserted that the consolidation of the station’s mailboxes, with all of the mail presently going through the College’s Department of Communications, alleviates the confusion of sorting WDAV mail. WDAV mail was being sent to how it was addressed, causing delays and loss of mail, according to Lovell. Lovell said two checks allegedly sent to the College, one earlier in the summer and one last week, were lost in the mail. He stressed, however, that the lost checks did not directly prompt the box closing, but that the fact that the station isreceiving money necessitated the move. Lovell gave the problem to Roberts, requesting that she solve it. Roberts commented, “I talked with the postmaster. WDAV staff was not notified. We're a business, not a student. Different boxes according to WDAV’s box.”

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

When WDAV Publications Director Rob Payne went to the post office to pick up the station’s mail Saturday morning, he found the box not only empty, but closed. Upon questioning postal officials, WDAV staff members discovered that Martha Roberts, Assistant Director of Communications, had closed the post office box Friday afternoon. 

Roberts explained, “I talked with the postmaster about how it looked from the post office point of view and decided to have all the mail delivered to the College’s Communications Department. Students were getting blamed for lost mail,” Roberts continued. She explained that the box closing “takes the pressure off the students.” Thompson said the station's post office box is paid for out of the $6000 allocated to WDAV.

Kresge awards $200,000
By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

The S.S. Kresge Foundation has given Davidson College a $200,000 challenge grant to be used for construction of the Commons. President Spencer made the announcement Wednesday. In order to receive the money, Davidson must match it by raising an equal amount. The Commons, scheduled for completion in 1980, will be the new eating facility for freshmen and independent upperclassmen. According to Duane Dittman, Vice President for Development, the College Commons will be designed to take on Richards and Bailey Houses’ present function.

Registration ills bedevil students
By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

College Registrar Richard Burts said yesterday he believes some students have been buying and selling their courses during drop-add. Asked whether he thought students who were desperate to get certain courses ever offered or agreed to pay cash to get them, Burts said, “Yes sir—I can’t document it, but I’ve heard it enough to believe it’s true.” Burts speculated the amount of money changing hands is around $10, adding that in his opinion this is no violation of the Honor Code. Academic Vice President Price Zimmerman said he was unaware of any courses being sold, but that if it really is going on, he considers it a violation of the Code of Responsibility.

This is just one small part of the entire registration problem which faculty members say has bedeviled the campus for several years. It goes far beyond add-drop itself. “What’s not working is not drop-add; it’s the original registration,” observed English Professor Anthony Abbott. A lot of students sign up for courses they do not get, to put it simply. Abbott suggested one of the basic reasons for this is that more special studies, which occupy a professor’s time with only a few students when they might otherwise be teaching larger classes, have been offered in recent years, but the faculty has not increased proportionately. Burts agreed with this, adding that programs such as the seminars and independent studies make it harder for the so-called average student to get his courses. “From an enrollment point of view, yes it’s a drain—it’s expensive in many ways. The Center is a calculated risk the College has structured, but we think there ought to be places like that,” said Burts.

Asked why the College has failed to increase the number of professors to make up for the low-ceilinged seminars, Zimmerman retorted that the pay is larger this year. “We are committed to a 13 to 1 student-faculty ratio,” he said. Despite this, Dean of Students Will Terry earlier stated that, while the number of Davidson students has grown markedly (see Terry, page 2).