September 8, 1978

Cats seek unequaled season
By BARRY SACHTJEN
Sports Editor

As the Davidson Wildcats approach their home opener with Fordham, feelings of optimism run high among both players and coaches.
Marked by a noticeable increase in both leadership and confidence, this year's team seems well justified in their enthusiasm. Head
Coach Ed Farrell echoes these sentiments by pointing out that the large number of qualified veterans "makes us confident that,
starting in 1978, we are capable of playing competently with anyone on our schedule."

"Overall talent on the squad is improved, especially at the skill positions. Several of these skill positions will be filled
by players with a season’s experience and a spring practice behind them; their impact should be considerable." There are a
host of veterans returning so that both the offense and the defense will rest on the efforts of players familiar
with Coach Farrell's style of play. "Since we've all been together for two years, we've got it (the offense) down.
We know what we can do and we have confidence in each other."

"People-wise, we should have a great year. We have all the size and strength we need. All that remains to
be seen is whether or not we can play together. We have to see a game situation to see what
we can do."

Offense
Leading the array of talent is the offensive backfield, which Farrell feels is "reasonably veteran." Sophomore Alvin Atkinson is an
improved runner with darting moves and breakaway speed. Halfback Craig Pyles possesses excellent hands and is known for his blocking
prowess. Senior fullback Page Walley, a bruising ball-carrier, needs only 227 yards to become the all-time Davidson career rushing leader.
Farrell recognizes Walley’s instrumental role in the Cats' success by lauding him as a "proven player on whose capabilities much
of the offense will depend."

However, much of the responsibility for the offensive punch will be in the hands of quarterback John McCarthy, a starter
for the last two years. Farrell believes the offensive line, led by experienced players such as Dave Donaldson and Phil
Toye, "should open up even more holes." With the veteran know-how of both tight-ends Larry Crees and Tom Trahey and
the speed of young wide-receivers Gifford Piercy and John Porter, teams will now be forced to show respect for Davidson's
passing attack, thus opening up the middle for the inside running plays. This will be augmented by the marked improvement
in outside running. In particular, Atkinson's speed should provide Davidson with an asset which Walley feels will allow them to
have more "variety in our plays."

Defense
However, the Cat talent is not dominated by the offense. The stalwart defensive line anchored by the inside trio of
Frank Fields, Mike Sheridan, and Svend Pedersen should provide numerous problems for opposing offenses with their strength and agility. Outside
linebackers Barry Cannon and Glen Echols, along with Terrell Rhye and Gary Joe Stokes, combine awesome power and lateral movement.
In the secondary, Farrell states that the players composing the unit are all fine athletes with an excellent mix of
speed and defensive savvy.— Defensive backs Chris Boist, Landis Wade, Kevin Hanna, and Phil Gilbert are all experienced and should
disrupt many passing attempts. Stokes related that the defense has been working especially hard on becoming more aggressive, a sense
which is not easily taught by the coaches. Overall, the defensive unit appears very strong and should fare well if
everybody successfully carries out their assignments.

The only facet of the Cats' game not handled by an experienced player is the kicking game. However, several promising
freshmen, including Mike Bass, Wayne Paymer, and Gary Sims, could give the team a huge lift with their exceptional abilities
should their success in practice extend to game situations.

Expectations
This year’s schedule, considered “realistic, but challenging” by Farrell, should provide a mix of comparable teams as well as some
that will be somewhat better or worse. However, even with several weaker teams, Farrell insists that Davidson “must be careful
every week and not look past teams. We have the potential to beat everybody.” Should they fare well, games against
teams such as Furman and Lehigh could be a factor in gaining the Cats the recognition necessary to land a
post-season playoff berth.

Sizing up the Wildcats' first game, Farrell warns of a charged-up Fordham team. “On paper, they are as good or
better than last year. We expect them to be keyed up for a big year. They beat Widener (Division III
national champion last year) and thought they should have been in the playoffs last year.”

Field Hockey and Cross Country previews will be featured next week.

Welcome Class of '82
For over a decade, Davidson students have found many of their needs in the gifts, room accessories, plants, stationery, greeting
cards, and other thoughtful items. Browsers welcome from 9 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. Irene & Taylor Blackwell, owners.

Farrell admits that in last year’s game they were a bit apprehensive at first playing a team in a higher
division. Yet, they almost pulled the game out in the closing minutes, and therefore could easily say, “We could have
beaten Davidson.”

Stokes feels that this first game could prove key for the entire season. “We have to dominate if we can.
Jelling in this game as a unit would really help us.” Harping on an intangible pre-season apprehension, Stokes added that
“we won't know exactly what we have until we are in a game.”

Walley also recognizes that “Fordham is a tough team that wants to hit, but we have a better program. If
we execute correctly, the difference should tell.”

Farrell noted that the principal difference in attitude between this year’s squad and last lies not with morale, but with
confidence. Specifically, being not concerned about the ability to perform. Therein lies the reason for a positive outlook. Should Davidson
play up to expectations, Farrell believes “we will expect to win.”

Some of the players expressed a strong desire to produce a season that “eight wins has never been done here.”
Perhaps McCarthy summed up best the deserved optimism of the Wildcats as they begin what could be more than just
a winning season. “If we stay healthy, we have a chance of being the winningest team in Davidson history.”
