October 4, 1978

The Davidsonian

SPIN YOUR own unique web after participating in the Alternative Lifestyles symposium.

Alternative Lifestyles Service Corps symposium will challenge students

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Features Editor

“Alternative Lifestyles” will be the theme of a major symposium held on campus Sunday, October 8 - Tuesday, October 10.
Sponsored by the Y Student Service Corps, the symposium is designed to expose Davidson students, residents, and visitors to the
work being done by those who seek alternative ways of life amidst the urbanized, centralized society of modern America.

Several speakers will participate in the three-day event, including representatives of urban, rural, religious, and political alternative organizations. Two fundamental
beliefs among those seeking alternatives are that Americans are too materialistic in their priorities and consumption habits and that modern
society, with its Big Business and Big Government, does not allow enough individual freedom. Organizers of the symposium hope that
those who disagree with these ideas will attend and participate as actively as those who share the alternative viewpoint.

“This is by far the most ambitious project the Service Corps has undertaken in the past year,” said Glen Darbyshire,
Y president, “and we hope that students will take advantage of this opportunity to hear these dynamic and dedicated leaders.
Not only will there be lectures and films, but time has been set aside for students to discuss their own
ideas with our visitors. In addition, there will be displays concerning the organizations and writings of the speakers.”

The symposium will begin with a vegetarian dinner on Sunday evening at 5:30 in Chambers Art Gallery. Reservations can be
made by signing up at the Union Desk, and the meal will cost $1.50. A program introducing the Alternative Movement
will follow the meal and a film entitled “Living the Good Life” will be shown at 9:00 p.m. in Perkins
Auditorium.

Monday’s activities include a program on Urban and Rural alternative modes of living at 10:00 a.m. in the Gallery, discussions
and interviews with the guests from 2:00 until 4:00 p.m. in the 900 Room, and a program that evening entitled
“Why not mainstream America? Practical Applications.”

On Tuesday at 10:00 a.m. in the Gallery, the speakers will discuss the political activities of their organizations, and at
1 p.m. in the 900 Room an informal talk on Alternative Diets will be given. The campus worship service at
DCPC that evening will be led by one of the speakers interested in alternative means of celebrating religious events.

“The Service Corps has invited leaders of alternative organizations who are qualified to speak about this unique mixture of liberal
and conservative ideas,” said Darbyshire. “These are not leftovers from the 1960s who are still blowing their horns. In fact,
one of our speakers has been involved in the Alternative movement since the 1930s.”

Attending the symposium are Mildred J. Loomis, editor of The Green Revolution and authority on subsistence farming and alternative diets;
Jaques Kaswan, coordinator of UrbAlt, an Urban alternative organization, and the magazine, Humanizing City Life; Carter Henderson, former IBM executive
and editor of the Wall Street Journal and present co-director of the Princeton Center for Alternative Futures; Bob Kochtitzky, founder
of Art of Alternatives and director of the National Alternative Celebrations Campaign; Don Askins, a representative of the Appalachian COALition.and
Frank Kilgore, representative of Virginia Citizens for Better Reclamation. “Not only do these speakers plan to inform us of their
present work and the reason behind it, they intend to challenge us to evaluate our own values and priorities and
to perhaps make changes in our lives,” commented Darby.

Yearbook co-editors plan 'best book ever'
By JOHN SPANGLER
Staff Writer

The 1978-79 Quips and Cranks is already shaping up to be one of the best issues in recent years. Under
the leadership of co-editors Lana Sims and Steve Cline, the thirty-some members of the yearbook staff have been working hard.
They plan many improvements upon last year’s format.

Lana and Steve would like to see several basic changes effected in the yearbook itself and in the student body’s
involvement in its production. “Lana and I have been working very hard to get people involved, and we want the
input,” said co-editor Cline. “We do not want people to be afraid to call up and have specific incidents put
in the annual, such as dorm socials or hall mixers.”

This year, the two co-editors plan new additions to the annual. More color photography and student-candid pictures are two items.
One of the most important additions, they feel, will be mug shots put in with the seniors’ candid portraits. Senior
mug shots and candid pictures will be put on the same page. Home-made candid shots at the eating houses, in
the dorms, or elsewhere around the campus are especially solicited. Official mugshots will be made for all students Monday through
Friday beginning on October 16. Appointments for pictures can be made at the Union Desk. Everyone, especially Seniors who may
not think it necessary, should go by and have their portraits made.

Stated Sims, “We want each student to have his picture taken for a two-fold reason; not only will this give
us the four classes’ pictures, but also this will enable us to do more with the yearbook—such as using more
color photography—if a total response is shown by the students.”

If anyone has any questions or even suggestions regarding the ’78-’79 Quips and Cranks, or if anyone is interested in
submitting photography to the yearbook, he should contact Cline and Sims at the Yearbook office in the Union. Office hours
are Monday through Thursday from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. Seniors are also reminded to have their candid shots made and
to drop them by the yearbook office in the near future.

More color photography, two photos for every senior, and more candid shots are just a few of the planned improvements.
Given student input and active support, Cline and Sims agree that this will, indeed, turn out to be an excellent
year for Quips and Cranks.

Copeland SUPPLIES
Art - Office - School
Open 10 a.m. - 5 p.m.

Smith Flowers
302 Smith Circle
Cornelius, N.C.
“For all your flower needs.”
Closed Tuesdays.

Rooms AVAILABLE
PIZZA
Open 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
375-7449
1908 W. Boulevard
