Conservation
By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

Conservation is a concern of the Davidson College campus this year. Glass and paper recycling efforts are two of the strongest movements. Glass recycling, previously done by the FIJIs, has been organized this year by both KA and Rusk houses. Dr. Locke White brought up the subject at the Conservation on Campus meeting, and members of both houses volunteered to undertake the service project. Boxes for recyclable glass have been placed on the halls, and there are bins by the Dempsey dumpsters. The main bins are located behind the stores and the PO on Main Street. Every four or six weeks the members of KA and Rusk will sort out the glass, crush it, and place it in 55-gallon drums supplied by the town. When there are enough drums to fill a truck, the crushed glass will be taken near Winston-Salem and sold.

The town of Davidson is very enthusiastic about the recycling effort because it is economical. The students voluntarily do the work, and the town receives the money. “The exciting part of the recycling efforts,” says Anthony Sanfilippo, one of the KA members involved in the organization of the project, “is the development of concern for the earth on the Davidson campus.”

Paper recycling efforts involve several groups -- the Biology Society, SGA, the Student Y Program, APO, and NC PIRG. There are boxes located on each hall in which students should place any type of paper except for glossy paper such as photos or magazines. The money raised will be used to restore the shed behind Little where the paper is presently stored. Mike McGrady, one of the organizers of paper recycling, feels that the drive is going very well. “The boxes have been out on the halls for 2 weeks, and I have made three trips to the Chesapeake Paper Co., taking about 400 pounds of paper each time.”

An additional recycling effort is occurring at Slater. To help save paper, Ron Scott has asked the freshmen to carry reusable cups with them to all meals. Aiding in this effort, the SAE house has ordered more of the red, 22-ounce Davidson glasses. These glasses will be for sale sometime in the next two weeks.

By MATT KENNEY
Staff Writer

In a quest for “good quality, unusual, natural food,” a small group of Davidson residents have banded together to form a natural foods cooperative. The infant organization, led by Suzie Yoder, Ruth Pittard, Anne Retzer, and Siri Holland, is associated with the large Charlotte cooperative Common Harvest.

To begin the experiment, the group is attempting to market cheese with little or no preservatives in Davidson. Using Common Harvest as a sort of middleman, the group hopes to obtain the cheese from Appalachian Federation of Food Cooperatives. Hopefully, this initial venture can be expanded into a broader range of natural foods. The Davidson Co-op will be much more modest than its “parent” group. The membership will consist of those who have paid the $3.00 for the operating period. The money will be used to...Buy the supplies that the co-op will need to function. There are three types of members with which the Davidson group will work. The most active level is that of "working member" in which the person is expected to contribute about ten hours per order. The other levels are "supportive members" (five hours per order) and "non-working" members. The co-op members will be organized into blocs that deal with bookkeeping, communications, operations, and expansion/legal services. This small make-up is in contrast to Common Harvest’s eighteen blocs. At this time there are fifteen members with more expected.

The Davidson co-op is interested in eating house participation. At the moment there has been little response from any of the houses, except ATO, on this subject. Initial contacts with ARA Slater have indicated that the dining service would require weekly purchases (whereas the co-op is planning four to eight purchases all year) that outstrip the resources of this new group.

The Davidson organization is modeled on the massive Common Harvest co-op. The latter is divided into blocs with each having some responsibility. The 1600 members of Common Harvest are not only concerned with the procurement of natural foods but also with the quality and purpose of this attempt. As Ruth Pittard, one of the organizers, said, "It’s not cheaper, it’s better."

The problem of resources and the initial lack of interest by the eating houses points up the lack of student involvement. The cheese venture will never be launched unless there is some support by the student body. To gain strength it is possible that all the co-ops on campus, such as the bike co-op, would be united under the same roof. Hopefully, such a banding together of resources and funding would let the cheese venture take off and become a full-fledged co-op.

The organizing members emphasize the fact that this fledgling organization is just getting on its feet and that it needs support badly. The membership form indicates that even if one is not planning to buy any cheese, any interest or support in future activities and expansion would be welcome. Anyone hoping to join should send a check for three dollars to Siri Holland at Box 2173 (make the checks payable to her). Anyone with questions about the cheese operation is directed towards its manager Suzie Yoder. Forms and explanations may be obtained at the Union, Village Store, Perregrine House, or from one of the group’s leaders. With enough support, this initial operation will be expanded into a beneficial experience for all.

GUSS ORIGINAL
Lunch or dine in an aura of Victorian Elegance. You are invited to enjoy our fine cuisine and selection of fine wines. Excellent banquet facilities. Only one mile North from the Charlotte campus of the University of North Carolina. OPEN 11:00 AM-11:30 PM DAILY—CLOSED SUNDAY. HWY 46 EAST UNIVERSITY CITY BLVD.

October 6, 1978
The money not spent on paper cups will go to CROP. The main purpose of recycling, according to Mike McGrady, is to begin to make people care about how much waste goes on around them. Davidson College is obviously beginning to care.

Westport Golf Club
Highway 16
Denver, N.C.
Would you like to play some golf? At Westport, two Davidson students can play for the price of one. Weekdays only.