The Davidsonian - January 20, 1978

Apps down Cats

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

Davidson will return to Charlotte Saturday afternoon looking for its first victory against the University of South Carolina since 1974.
Last year, USC beat the Cats, 69-53, but it was a 5-point game until last-minute free throws by USC widened
the margin.

About the upcoming game, Coach John Kochan said, “I expect a real good game Saturday. We will be motivated and
I know South Carolina will be motivated. This is a TV game; this is a rivalry.”

Offensively, Coach Kochan believes the keys for Davidson will be more offensive movement and rebounding. He also expects a slower
tempo. “I look for a control game. South Carolina will play a zone. We'll have to attack it. I hope
the guards have a good shooting game. I hope to break a little bit at different times, and we’ve got
to rebound better than we're rebounding.”

As for the defensive keys, Coach Kochan said, “We have to stop the penetration of Jackie Gilloon and keep the
ball away from Graziano, especially on the offensive boards.”

Davidson (7-8) will also be trying to even its record against USC and rebound from its disappointing effort Tuesday night
against Appalachian.

Gerdy best in SC again

Junior guard John Gerdy was named Southern Conference Player of the Week for his outstanding performance last week. Gerdy had
69 points in two games (37 against Furman and 32 versus Marshall).

The Wildcats used a trapping defense to slice a 10-point Appalachian lead early in the second half to two points,
54-52, with just under seven minutes to play. It was at that point that the Cats fell apart, committing numerous
turnovers and taking some bad shots, which Coach Kochan attributed to the outstanding man-to-man defense Appalachian played.

However, Coach Kochan had accolades for two of his players, Pat Hickert and Kevin Doherty. “Pat again gave us a
consistent, solid performance which he’s done since the break. He’s the most consistent inside player we have now.”

Turning to Kevin Doherty, who has played a greater role in Davidson fortunes of late including 12 points, 8 rebounds,
and 4 assists in 30 minutes of playing time against Appalachian, Coach Kochan said, “Kevin has been a big help.
Kevin’s an athlete. He’s experienced, smart, and he’s going to be a factor for us the rest of the season.”

Coach Kochan explained the absence of Davidson’s once potent fast break in Tuesday night’s game. “Appalachian is a real quick
team, they got back well on defense.”

“We wanted to keep the tempo away from running up and down the court. We wanted to keep the score
a little lower. We hoped to get balanced scoring by going inside, which didn’t work out.”

Coach Kochan explained his strategy, “We have two great shooters in John Gerdy and Chris Dodds, but they can’t be
expected to carry the load all season.”

“Other teams are going into odd defenses, like the triangle and two, against us. We had hoped to have gotten
better movement on offense though.”

BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
M.A. WICKER
President and Treasurer
BEN L. MILLSAPS
Executive Vice President and Secretary

CO-CAPTAIN JONATHAN Washburn perfects his technique in an intense practice session. [Greg Strader]

Swimmers crush Paladins

By SKIP BARKLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcat Swimmers resumed their pre-Christmas winning ways with a 63-50 defeat of Furman University in Greenville, S.C. this
past weekend. The victory left the tankers at an impressive...4-0 record. The team has yet to reach its potential and
will swim much better as the season progresses. The team showed the effects of an intensive 10-day training session in
Florida over break. The team members returned early and left Davidson December 30 bound for Daytona Beach. Chilly 55-degree temperatures
greeted the team on their first day of workouts in an outdoor “heated” pool. The schedule called for a 9,000-yard
freestyle practice at 8:00 AM followed by a 6,000-yard practice at 2:00 PM which concentrated on the individual strokes. After
8½ miles of swimming, the team did not do too much in the way of celebrating the New Year as
most team members were in bed by 9:30. The benefits from this type of training program are long-range and the
team can expect improvement in future meets. The modest performance at Furman, time-wise, was compensated for by the Wildcats’ superior
depth. However, there were some clutch races swum by the team. Co-captain Jonathan Washburn was a double winner as he
captured the 200-yd. Individual Medley and the 200-yd. breaststroke while swimming against Furman’s captain. Mike Knowles, the other co-captain, won
another tough race as he outlasted the Furman competitor in the grueling 1000-yd. freestyle. Other Wildcat victors included Tom Spangler
in the 200-yd. backstroke, Mark Tommerdahl in the 500-yd. freestyle, and the 400-yd. freestyle relay team of Ed Imbrogno, Steve
Yood, Ray Craven, and Tim Bode. The swimmers are now pointing towards this weekend when they will travel to Virginia
to face Madison and VMI in a tri-meet on Friday. Saturday the tankers will be in Williamsburg, Va. for a
meet with William and Mary.

Gepfert advances to finals
By HARRY GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

Davidson freshman Jay Gepfert teamed with Scott Morse of New Canaan, Conn., to advance to the finals of the first
National Intercollegiate Platform Tennis Championships, held December 27-28 in Princeton, N.J. Platform tennis is similar to tennis, but there are
some significant differences. In platform tennis, the court is one-third smaller and is surrounded by thick-gauged chicken wire off which
the ball can be played. Also, the ball is made of hard sponge rubber, the racket is only one and
one-half feet long, and only one serve is allowed. Gepfert and Morse reached the finals by virtue of a close
upset victory over the top-seeded team of Bill Hammer (Scarsdale, N.Y.) and Kent Pierce (Rye, N.Y.). After dropping the first
set by a 6-2 margin, the winners came back to take a 7-5, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 decision. Gepfert, a member
of the varsity tennis team, commented, “It was my first big win in a number of years, and I hope
it will carry over into tennis.” However, Gepfert and Morse dropped the finals by a 4-6, 6-4, 6-1, 6-2 score
to Pete Henderson of Georgetown University and Greg Moore of George Washington University. “We were a little overconfident after our
big win, and we never really got untracked,” explained Gepfert. Gepfert’s success in this tournament is outstanding, considering the fact
that he had not played platform tennis in more than a year prior to the tournament. In fact, his total
lifetime experience in the game is very limited. However, Gepfert cited his good tennis background as a major factor in
his success. “Tennis and platform tennis are similar enough to where they are mutually beneficial.”
