September 29, 1978 ~ Letter to the Editor

To the Editor:

Peggy Britt’s article “PCC Studies Financial Woes” in last week’s Davidsonian misinformed readers about the committee formed by the PCC
and the performance of the treasurers on Patterson Court. As treasurer of Emanon and a member of the PCC, I
am qualified to clear up any misunderstandings.

First, the committee (called the PCC Finance Committee in the article) was formed for the purpose of studying plans to
maintain a stable membership in the houses through three terms of the school year. The trend has been for all
the houses to be at maximum membership Fall term, but membership declines Winter term and is dangerously low Spring term.
To remedy this situation, the business office presented a plan to the PCC last spring recommending that a $50 deposit
be paid by each house member to be refunded should the member remain at the house all year. The committee
was formed to examine this plan or provide alternatives to help remedy the membership problem.

My gripe is that the committee failed to deal with the problem for which it was formed. Several members of
the committee, the chairman in particular, were opposed to the business office’s proposal and rather than come up with an
alternative plan, blamed the financial problems of the houses on the “inexperience of the treasurers.”

The current treasurers on the court are better regulated and more informed as a group than ever before. Financial reports
are turned in to the business office each month, in addition to term and year-end reports. All tax returns are
audited by a CPA before submittal to the IRS. The business office supplies each treasurer a booklet that outlines in
detail the financial management of a house. Obviously, the financial problems most houses are experiencing are not a result of
“inexperience of the treasurers.” Mr. Currie tried to point out these facts about the treasurers to Britt, but he said
she did not seem interested.

It is the opinion of many members of the PCC, Mr. Currie, and myself that the current financial problems on
Patterson Court are caused by the drastically reduced membership most houses experience during spring term of each year. I hope
the PCC will again address itself to the membership problem and that this time the committee will deal with the
problem it is confronted with instead of trying to hide it.

Gregg Londrey ’80
Emanon Treasurer

PCC committee misunderstood intent

Letter to the Editor

The Davidsonian

To the Editor:

Regarding Peggy Britt’s front page article, “PCC Studies Financial Woes,” I would like to clarify some issues raised. Last spring,
the Patterson Court Council passed a resolution to look into the problems created by the unlimited mobility on the court.
This resolution was passed at a time when many of the houses were in financial trouble caused, not by inexperienced
treasurers who could not make a budget, but by a lack of information given them. Without concrete figures as to
the number of people eating at the house, even the most sophisticated economist could not make a budget; order food,
and...

Firestone decision due within weeks

by STEVE AUSTIN
PIRG Columnist

During this summer, the public learned that a potential defect existed in one of the most popular tires on the
market; the Firestone steel-belted radial. Great publicity was given to the number of accidents attributable to this tire and the
economic effects of recalling such a widespread item.

Davidson PIRG wrote the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to find out the present status of the Firestone recall. The
following is a response to our questions by Mr. Lynn L. Bradford, Acting Associate Administrator for Enforcement of NHTSA:

“On July 7, 1978, our Deputy Administrator made an initial determination that a safety-related defect exists in Firestone 500 Steel-Belted
Radial tires and identical tires manufactured by the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company under other brand names (‘Grappler Radial’ 8000
series sold by Montgomery Ward and ‘Super Shell Steel Radials’ sold by Shell Oil Company dealers).

“On August 7 and 8, we conducted a public meeting at which Firestone and other interested parties presented their views
and evidence on this matter. A final determination will be made after the Administrator’s consideration of all matter pertinent to
this case.

“While we cannot give any monetary costs of Firestone 500 failures, there are 37 fatalities and over 50 injuries alleged
to be caused by those tires.

“Consumers should be alert to any obvious faults with these tires such as bulges, tread distortion, severe vibration, or wires
sticking through the tread and sidewall. We recommend periodic inspection for tire condition and proper inflation to minimize the potential
for blowout. When any of the warning symptoms are noted, a consumer should take the tire to a Firestone dealer
for adjustment and retain all records of the transaction or keep the tire for possible free replacement in the event
of a final defect determination. However, they should be aware that any defect determination may be challenged by the manufacturer
in the judicial system.”cannot possibly put together a reasonable budget. This problem has arisen because no one is obligated to
stay at a particular house and, especially during Winter and Spring terms, many people change their eating arrangements. This total
freedom is very nice for the individual, but very disruptive for people trying to run a house.

When the committee referred to in the article was set up, its sole purpose was to find a way for
the court as a whole to battle this problem. Obviously, this committee misunderstood its intended purpose. They came up with
some suggestions which, although they are possibly valid, still leave the original question unanswered. The deposit proposal mentioned has not
been discounted completely. The issue is still up in the air and the PCC is waiting on a report from
the committee regarding mobility with solutions and ideas. Hopefully, there will be action on this by the end of the
term.

Personally, I think The Davidsonian jumped the gun on this issue in its never-ending search for earth-shaking controversy. There are
widespread opinions among members of the Patterson Court Council regarding what actions to take, but there is nothing approaching the
hard line implied in Miss Britt’s article. This may be an issue in the future and, if it is, I
hope The Davidsonian is more diligent in its reporting.

Byram Ratliff II '79
PCC President

---

Victors rewrite feat

To the Editor:

We feel that it is our duty to the public to fulfill an unnecessary void in your journalism. After the
article on the Freshmen Regatta appeared in a recent issue without any mention as to the identity of the winners,
it was the feeling of those participating in the victory that the major thrust of the article had been “accidentally”
deleted.

Therefore, we suggest that the following be printed as an update to the delinquent article: “After all the water splashing
and hair pulling came to an end, one team emerged victorious. The team members who manned what looked like a
well-engineered ice cream sandwich were none other than the gentlemen of 3rd Watts.”

Another important deletion was also discovered. Information was provided that Will Terry and Doug Horn had been forcefully deposited in
Lake Norman. However, the identity of those responsible was once again “accidentally” left out. Proudly, we would respond that it
was 3rd Watts who mastered this sinister deed.

The Gentlemen of Third Watts

Thank you for bringing this essential detail to our attention. We didn't realize there were any gentlemen on third Watts.

—Editorial Editor

---

Where is the bell?

To the Editor:

While walking across the campus on my way to class one morning, I noticed that something was missing. Since Fall
Term has begun, not once have I had the pleasure of hearing the bell on top of Chambers. Although many
of the freshmen may be puzzled (“What bell atop Chambers?”), faculty and students with whom I have spoken all agreed
that its sound added a subtle flavor to life here at Davidson.

Granted, most Senior Class Gifts have been inherently more useful, for example, the Big Screen television in the union. But
this bell represents a tradition which Davidson should not allow to disappear, leaving a rusting and useless bell atop Chambers
Building to represent the Class of 1975.

Glen Liesgang '79
Davidson College

---

UNCC hits low blow

To the Editor:

To the Union Board and the Davidson Student Body:

We, the students at UNCC, are pleasantly surprised but happy to hear of your recent achievement on the gridiron. Until
this fall, we thought your nickname, the Wildcats, was a description of the student environment. Of course, your teams have
enjoyed a reputation for their high degree of humility and generosity. Certainly, UNCC can expect no less competitively from Davidson
at our Carowinds Day.

With that in mind, UNCC now looks forward to our playday with Davidson, Saturday, October 14.

UNCC Program Board and the greater UNCC Student Body

Editor’s Note: For information on the Davidson-UNCC Carowinds Day, see the Features Section in this issue.

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor on any subject. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the
right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Editorial Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or
bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will ordinarily be printed in
that week's issue.
