—8

...College closes WDAV’s box

(continued from page 1)

through the Activities Tax (ATC),” he remarked.

He noted that “our accounting system is with the College’s.” He said any issuance of money paid by the College registers with the WDAV account.

“The Post Office box was paid last year out of the $8000 by a College check along with other post office expenses.

“If it was paid out of Activities Tax Council money in the name of the station, the Administration doesn’t have the right to close it down.”

Thompson said the College closed the box “behind our back,” and added, “I think it’s pretty low down.”

Roberts said the failure to give the radio station prior notice of the box’s closing was “a matter of timing.”

The problem came up on a Friday afternoon, she said.

“It didn’t occur to me that there would be any problem.”

Lovell minimized the importance of the mailbox closing, “This is such a petty matter; it doesn’t amount to a hill of beans.”

The SGA is considering a resolution calling for the restoration of the mailbox to the station, according to SGA President Bruce Brown.

“We would've passed a resolution (at the Tuesday night meeting),” stated Brown, but

BUILD YOUR OWN BIG SCREEN COLOR TV

Sporting Events Are An Experience As Exciting As Being There! They Were Meant To Be Seen!

Pong And Other Video Games Are More Exciting Than Ever! Can Be Used With Video Tape Playback Equipment!

It’s Like Having a “Movie Theater” in Your Home! AMAZING $90.00 PROJECTOR KIT now only $29.95

Imagine inviting friends to see TV Specials, Movies, Sports, on your Theater Size TV! It’s like viewing on a movie screen! Everything takes on a whole new dimension—almost makes you feel like you're in the action! Can also be used outdoors, converting your backyard into an open-air Outdoor Theater! This new invention gives sharp, brilliant TV reception comparable to commercial projector systems costing $2,500 or more. Absolutely SAFE to use. No electrical or mechanical connections to TV. Removes in seconds for regular size viewing. No special aerial required. Projects up to 5 x 6 foot pictures (7½ Ft. diagonal) on wall or screen, even in the smallest rooms or apartments. Best of all, this amazing Projector is really simple and inexpensive to build yourself. Even a 12-year-old can do it quickly. Enclosed Kit comes complete with unbreakable lifetime guaranteed Precision Lens System, 11” x 17” illustrated Plans and Specifications, and EASY ASSEMBLY instructions. All you supply is only some cardboard or wood for the simple cabinet. This Projector can be used with ANY Portable TV set 7” to 25”, and will enlarge pictures in either Color or Black & White. If you wish, here's an easy way to make money in your spare time. Simply assemble and sell these TV Projectors to your friends, neighbors, relatives, etc. Everyone with a TV set will gladly pay you up to $90.00 for each Projector you build. Make up to $70.00 on each easy sale. Your cost, one kit - $29.95, two kits - $49.95, five kits - $99.95.

SALES MARKETING Dept. NP-7
P.O. Box 2646
Merced, California 95340

Enclosed is $______ for ______ Postpaid complete TV PROJECTOR KITS (offer expires 9/1/78)

Name
Address
City/State

The Davidsonian
September 15, 1978

Take out orders
892-8686
Mon.-Wed. 11-3, 5-8
Thurs.-Sat. 11-3, 5-12
Sun. 12-3, 5-10

Happy Hours:
Thurs & Fri nights
8:30-10 PM

“Best food east of Tulsa”

Simulated TV Reception