Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The Davidsonian

Davidson YM/YWCA characterized by flexibility in its forty-year history

By KIM KEPCHAR
Staff Writer

Throughout its history, the YM/YWCA has been an organization that has tried to meet flexibly the needs of the Davidson student body and the Davidson community. In the history, there are three major periods of development. The Y was started at the beginning of the 1930s as a branch of the national YMCA. The national organization provided a secretary who was responsible for programming. 

In the 1950s, the college was able to hire a full-time chaplain. Part of his job was advisor to the Y. During this period, there was a shift as the Y moved from a national orientation to an organization centering on community and campus service. In the 1970s, the Y again changed with the elimination of the position of college chaplain. Now, a faculty advisor and Rush Otey, minister to students, help to organize the Y’s programs.

In the five years that Rush Otey has been in his position, he has noticed a change in the Y's attitudes. The first couple of years, “the Y was made up of people concerned about social problems who were very compassionate.” He attributes this attitude partly as a holdover of the “60s mood.” The next few years witnessed a period of transition as Davidson became co-ed, the YMCA became the YM/YWCA, and women were absorbed into leadership roles. Now the Y is paying more attention to campus needs but is mutually supportive of community needs.

Professor Rhodes, active in the Y as a student at Davidson and later as a faculty advisor, notes that student interest in the Y varies. He sees this as a function of periods of student leadership at any given time and the general student religious and social attitudes. He is quick to point out that this is only a partial answer. Rush Otey sees as one of the strong points in the history of the Y its position as a “flexible organization.” This has allowed it to grow and change with student needs and wants and sponsor such diverse programs as counseling on alternatives to the draft during the Vietnam War, forums and symposia on such topics as death and dying, the STEP tutor program, the fast for world hunger, CROP meals, and the ice cream socials among other projects.

---

Faculty Guest Opinion

By DAVID E. SHI
Professor of History

When The Davidsonian asked me to write a column about college students and social service, my first inclination was to join the growing chorus of Jeremiahs bemoaning the decline in student activism since the glory days of the 1960s. The plaint is now familiar. College students of the Vietnam era supposedly possessed social empathy; today students exude social apathy. Instead of political or social involvement, students now prefer writing about the stock market, joining fraternities and sororities, sweating at grades and discos, and honking for Christ. Concern for self has replaced concern for society. And Adam Smith, Jeremy Bentham, and Milton Friedman to the contrary, the two concerns are not necessarily synonymous. But after much contemplation, I decided against such a scenario. I did so because I am unconvinced that students today are inherently any less compassionate or concerned than before. Students have

---

KELLY MOO GRICE

Create astronomical gastronomical delights

Grice finds that tutoring is meaningful to her as well as academically helpful. “I’m helping her find the motivation within herself. By listening to her read, I can give her positive reinforcement without being a teacher figure,” explained Grice.abandoned the barricades and returned to the cloister not because they are callous and indifferent, but because the times and the issues have changed. The Vietnam war is over, the draft is ended, and civil rights have been granted, at least on paper. With such static issues removed, students have naturally turned to more immediate concerns such as the increasingly high cost of college, the ever-tightening job market, and the competitive quest for admission to graduate and professional schools. That students have changed their priorities is not in itself disturbing. In fact, I am sure that many professors and administrators appreciate the renewed interest in academics. What is disturbing is that some students run the danger of becoming so immersed in the quest for grades and jobs that they lose contact with their peers and society. With the absence of public issues that directly affect our daily existence, natural human inertia takes over. It is much easier to focus on immediate needs --- getting good grades, getting a good date, and finding a good party. Such activities are healthy and understandable when pursued in moderation and when placed in perspective. But when pursued in excess, privatism and introspection can lead to intellectual and emotional malaise, an indefinite feeling of uneasiness, discomfort, or even illness. Last year, for instance, psychiatric attention required by students at Harvard increased 22 percent. A university report observed that students there are distressed over the “pervasive uncertainty of future employment. They sense an urgency to work, to do well, to compete, and they are afflicted by the failure to find meaning in it.” When the single-minded pursuit of self comes to dominate existence, then one forgets that one is part of a larger universe. And we all know what John Donne said about men and islands. At Davidson, unfortunately, the physical environment of the college reinforces such myopia. We live and study in a sheltered, isolated, self-sustaining environment. Thus it is easy to get caught up in the daily routine of academics, sleep, and social life and ignore or incessantly put off involving oneself in serving other students or the community. That many students are not involved in community service does not necessarily indicate apathy or callousness on their part. Calmness does not mean neutrality. I prefer to believe that the lack of participation results from a lack of awareness of the rich and varied possibilities for social service available to students. I therefore welcomed the prospect of The Davidsonian focusing on the activities with YM/YWCA in the hope that informing students of the myriad of possible service activities might in itself stir interest and involvement. This is not to assume that the Y is the only avenue for social service, only to recognize that it offers an organizational scheme. I have discovered that students know little about the Davidson YM/YWCA from their experiences with home organizations (hence the name of the organization causes such confusion). Some students think that the YMCA is a place for physical activities and crafts. One student at a recent meeting said that the YMCA back home was essentially a country club for the suburban cocktail circuit. Others think of Bible study and prayer meetings. The Davidson College YM/YWCA is none of these things. It is instead a service organization with no overt religious emphasis. Many students join the Y out of a sense of Christian duty, others out of a philosophy of service to a secular society and to enrich personal growth. The activities sponsored by the Y reflect this broad motivation. The STEP Tutoring program, the soup kitchen lunches, the North Mecklenburg Hospital Visitation Program, the Community School, the Senior Citizens Center tutoring, recycling efforts, and several other programs offer a variety of opportunities to break out of the campus routine, experience the joy of serving others, and meet people outside the campus. These activities deserve attention. I hope my assumption that students will become involved in volunteer work, whether under the auspices of the Y or not, is correct. Davidson already includes a solid core of students who help is needed to accomplish this goal. It requires leadership. If that help does not come, if students say they “just don’t have time,” then Davidson students are indeed “grade-grubbing,” as Professor The Davidsonian. And maybe it is time to re-evaluate our priorities at Davidson.