October 13, 1978

College Bowl recounts glory and gears up

By J. W. ARETINO
Staff Writer

A whistle blows, a “toss-up” occurs, a buzzer sounds. Basketball is not the center of attention; rather four sharp southern
gentlemen, bespectacled and groomed, match wits and speed in a battle of the cerebrum. College Bowl is hopefully back to
stay.

1969 was a year most people associate with a phenomenal basketball team, but another team at Davidson set a high
standard. Interest in a College Bowl team was strong with over eighty people competing for a place on a four-member
team.

Under the sharp, witty, and patient master, English Professor Charles E. Lloyd, the ranks were thinned to a team of
four and one alternate. Each member of that team is a story unto himself.

Richard D. Anderson, nicknamed “Aristotle” by classmates, was a sophomore interested in German. After graduation, he sought a career in
the diplomatic service. Today he holds a position with the Department of State.

Robert Bryan was chosen captain of the team with good reason. Bryan's lightning answers and “school boy” enthusiasm elicited fan
mail and even various proposals. Originally interested in law school, Bryan is on the verge of completing his doctorate in
medieval history, a major that seems to have served him well at Davidson.

Samuel Gwynn was the third member of the team. He was once a member of the football team and a
very talented poet, having won the college’s Vereen Bell award for creative writing and having several poems published. Today Sam
Gwynn is teaching at the University of Arkansas, a dream and goal he nurtured while in school here.

Charles Timmons was the fourth member of the team. He was a pre-medical major recruited for his scientific knowledge and
interest in mythology. He probably also rendered first-aid to Mr. Bryan on the occasions when the latter bit one of
his knuckles. Today Dr. Timmons is a psychiatrist, reaffirming a belief that not all pre-meds are ogres.

Professor Lloyd fondly recalls the work, tension, travel, anecdotes, and fun the team had. “It was perhaps one of the
most enjoyable experiences I’ve ever had,” Lloyd commented.

The team flew to New York four times for their matches. According to Lloyd, this was an important incentive for
students to try out for the team. “Nowadays students simply go to Palm Beach under their own power.”

General Electric, the principal sponsor of the College Bowl, provided rooms at the Warwick Hotel near the Radio City station.
Tickets to opera, ballet, or Broadway plays were also provided for the team.

Sunday morning, the day of the live televised match, the opposing teams met each other and the host Robert Earl.

Professor Lloyd believes Earl added a lot of tension to the matches through his dynamic and magnetic personality. After Davidson’s
final victory over Dillard University, Earl waited till 2 o’clock in the morning just to thank the team from Davidson
for coming.

As coach, Professor Lloyd recommended only a few books for team members to read. Questions for practice matches were solicited
from everywhere, faculty, staff, and even children. Lloyd said that the response of the college community was overwhelming—questions poured in
for the necessary practice matches. Occasionally, Lloyd would tape a college bowl match and then play it back to see
if the Davidson team could beat the teams competing. Lloyd commented that in practice before the first match against Colgate,
the team knew they were quicker and better prepared than Colgate before setting foot in New York.

Davidson fared very well in the College Bowl competition, retiring as the 33rd undefeated team in the 10-year history of
the College Bowl, amassing one of the highest point totals in one game ever, and bringing home nearly $20,000 in
scholarship money.

A combination of factors led to the decision by General Electric to drop its sponsorship. An important factor was a
strike which reduced GE's capital outlays. Another factor was that the student participants became less appealing. Squads representing Harvard and
Yale appeared on the show, answering the questions in a belittling manner. Recently, Readers Digest has provided backing for the
College Bowl, but on a more regional level.

In conjunction with the College Bowl Company, Inc., of New York, the Union will conduct a double elimination tournament among
seventeen intramural teams beginning next Wednesday.

“If interest on the intramural level is strong, we will hopefully join in intercollegiate competition,” said Brown.

---

October 18
Wed. 7 pm
Holiday Inn, North
Wagoner Hall
Charlotte

FIND OUT your role in the Coming Revolution and what it has to do with the eternal quest for the
Holy Grail and Camelot, the once and future mystery school, now reestablished in Malibu, California.

LEARN how to balance your karma and free your soul through the fiery baptism of the Holy Spirit and the
violet flame with Jesus, Maitreya, Gautama, the World Mother, and the real adepts of East and West—the ascended masters.

LIGHT with songs, meditations, visualizations, and multimedia slide shows. Challenge the darkness in America and the nations by the light
of God within you through the science of the spoken Word.

For more information call (704) 372-2075

Sponsored by Summit University
