The Davidsonian » THE BASKETBALL team practices intensely to prepare for the upcoming game against a tough Duke Blue Devil squad this Saturday. The Cats will have to play well if they hope to break Duke’s home unbeaten streak this year. [Gregg Strader] February 10, 1978

Cat runners struggle through 26-miler
By SAM MCPHERSON
Staff Writer

The marathon was the fastest growing sport in America last year. Several Davidson students have helped it gain this title. Perhaps the most outstanding finisher from Davidson was Carol Gieg, a junior transfer student from Dartmouth, who won the women’s division of the Columbia Marathon last Saturday with a time of 3:06:54. “I couldn’t believe it!” she said of her win. She added that she “can’t wait for the Boston Marathon.”

Running in the same marathon, Coty Pinckney clocked a time of 2:28:08. It was the first marathon that he has run in. He commented: “There’s nothing that compares with those last three miles.” Pinckney placed fourth in the

Devils loom ahead
By BRYAN KELLEHER
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats, after a resounding road victory at The Citadel Monday night, find themselves facing one of the toughest opponents of the year at Duke University on Saturday. The Blue Devils (15-5) have a strong and well-balanced team led by all-ACC guard Jim Spanarkel, who is their top scorer. The front line is very powerful, including 6’11’’ sophomore Mike Gminski and freshman forwards Eugene Banks and Kenny Dennard, both 6’7’’. The other guard spot is handled mainly by sophomore transfers Bob Bender and John Harrell.

Duke likes to exploit its strength underneath by using a 2-3 zone defense which is keyed on controlling the boards and stopping inside offenses. Duke Sports Information Director Tom Mickle says that they will use a transition offense against the Cats in order to try and get good shots. He explains, “We like to try and get 4 on 3 or even 5 on 4 situations in which we can get easy shots. If not, we simply settle back into our patterned offense,” he added.

Mickle also added that Gminski, who has been hampered by an injury, will be at full strength for Saturday's game. He said that out of respect for John Gerdy, Duke may play a man-to-man defense at times and put Spanarkel on Gerdy, as they did last year (when Gerdy scored 27 points). Since Duke has concentrated on the Virginia game all week, the Cats could catch the Blue Devils sleeping on Saturday, especially if momentum from the Citadel game continues. But it will not be easy, for Duke is the only ACC team without a loss at home.

Results
Men’s Basketball: 9-14
Davidson 88, Citadel 81

Women’s Basketball: 3-9
Davidson 47, WCU 76
Davidson 76, Notre Dame 100
Davidson 54, Citadel 59

Swimming: 8-5
Davidson 51, Appalachian 61

Wrestling: 0-6
Davidson 21, Pfeiffer 27

Tonight at 10:00
SEX AND VIOLENCE!
Makes Ben Hur look like an Epic!
WDAV-FM rebroadcasts the murder of Star Wars, remixed and in stereo
Don’t miss it!
WDAV-FM 90.529 and under age bracket out of a total field of 322 runners in the Columbia Marathon. Davidson runners recently placed high in another race, the Charlotte Observer Marathon. The best finisher from Davidson was Bob Sweet with a time of 2:49:38 and an overall place of 48 out of a pack of 349 runners. Sweet was pleased with his race but also said, “the pain during the race wasn’t nearly as bad as afterwards.” George Strobel, who placed four minutes behind Sweet, said simply of the marathon, “it’s long.” Other runners have had similar things to say about the race. Frank Shorter is reported to have said “why couldn’t Phidippides have died here?” as he reached the 22-mile mark in the race. Phidippides is the ancient runner who ran from the Plains of Marathon to Athens announcing victory over the Persians. He then died upon delivering the message. Bill Gaynor, another finisher, described the pain after hitting the “wall” at mile 20 by saying “I felt like dying!” Other finishers from Davidson were Professor of Sociology Norm Koller, Vasili Carperos, and Jeff Morrow.

Cattes fall to WCU
By EDDIE HASKEL
Staff Writer

Last Monday night, the women’s basketball team suffered their 9th loss of the season and second loss to Western Carolina, 78-49. Their record is now 3-9. The lady Cattes came out with hot shooting and good defense. Western Carolina missed the inside shots as a result of tough inside play by Cindy Morrison. The women were helped on the scoreboard early in the game, owing to the shooting of Donna Ferren and Sally Bondurant. Ferren, who had 12 for the night, and Bondurant, hot hand for the Cattes in the first half with 8, kept the women within a bucket for the greater part of the first half.

The women were down by 10 at the half, 31-21. The second half started with great defense by the women, and Western didn’t score until 15:00 was left in the half. The only problem was that the Wildcattes didn’t score until 15:45 remained in the half. Western started the half with a tough press, but no trouble was encountered by the women, as it was broken easily, with co-captain Beth Tanner bringing the ball into the front court. However, the tough defense of Western Carolina forced turnovers and missed shots once the ball was upcourt. Tanner had twelve points for the night, but it was not enough for the women. Still, Coach Susie Roberts was happy that the girls played as well as they did. It was quite an improvement over their game against the same team only one week ago, when Davidson lost by 51 points. The next home game for the women is Saturday at 3 pm in Johnston Gym against Pfeiffer.

Send a Little Love to All
VILLAGE STORE
When you care enough to send the very best
Valentine's Day is Tuesday, Feb. 14. Why not remember family and friends with a loving Hallmark valentine?