. . September 22, 1978

The Davidsonian

SGA election deadline set

The deadline for filing for SGA elections is Tuesday, September 26 at 4:00 p.m. Candidates should file in the Dean of Students Office. Positions open include three freshman class senators, three Belk Dorm senators, one senator from each other dorm, and three off-campus senators. Elections will be held on Tuesday, October 2.

YMCA fund drive continues

YMCA Fund Drive is continuing through September 22 with a goal this year of $2500. Students will be contacted for contributions.

Lone proposal submitted

The deadline for proposed revisions in the College Constitution passed Wednesday with only one recommendation from the student body and none from the faculty. SGA President Bruce Brown submitted the lone proposal, just hours before the deadline. He requested a clarification of College Station WDAV’s relationship to the Media Board. This recommendation, along with several others drafted by President Samuel Spencer, will be considered next Wednesday at a meeting of the Constitutional Review Committee (CRC). The body is composed of Brown, Trustees Price Gwyn, Walter Lingle, and J. Dickson Phillips, Vice President Pro Tempore of the Faculty John Kelton, and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann. The CRC will decide which will go on to the Trustees for approval and possible addition to the College Constitution.

Contributors: Dennis McLawhorn and Don Caldwell.

Win That Princely Roommate You Always Wanted—will be yours free if you are the Lucky Davidson College Student Winner of this year’s Annual Raffle to be Held at Noon Sept. 30. Register Now and every time you visit THE VILLAGE STORE.

CATALOG of COLLEGIATE RESEARCH

Over 10,000 listings. All subjects. Send NOW for this FREE catalog. (Offer expires Dec. 31, 1978) to: COLLEGIATE RESEARCH P.O. Box 84396, Los Angeles, CA. 90073

Spencer speaks on WDAV

(Continued from page 1)

Spencer at first tried to make a distinction between the word “activity” and the word “organization.” Then he denied responsibility for the sentence in Communications Director Martha Roberts’ recent statement which read, “The station from its inception has been a College station rather than a student activity.” “I didn’t pick that up when I read it,” Spencer admitted. He said he would have used the word “organization” in the statement.

Asked if Davidson planned to cooperate with WFAE, the University of North Carolina at Charlotte’s radio station which also hopes to play classical music at high power, to see that their two programs do not compete with each other, Spencer said, “I haven’t heard anything about that and I haven’t had any opportunity to deal with that. I think what we need to do is to get our own situation clarified first before we start elsewhere,” he added.

Spencer said he thought Davidson’s Trustees knew that WFAE would be playing classical music when they called for WDAV to become a “primarily classical music” station. But Spencer...said he knew of other areas which supported both public and fine arts stations and pointed out that WFAE may also be broadcasting a lot of educational material. In 1977, WDAV's Board of Directors rejected the two-station option, according to the Communications Office. 

Asked if he felt a conflict existed between the College’s seemingly successful attempt at taking over the radio station and the 1976 Davidson Constitution’s assurance that “student managers of electronic media staffed by students are accorded the same rights and responsibilities as editors of student publications,” Spencer said, “I have to go by the Trustee's policy statement and that a number of campuses have. One station, broadcasting exclusively to the campus, would be unqualifiedly a student organization, managed and programmed exclusively by students and directed to the Davidson student audience. If that’s in conflict the Constitution ought to be brought into consonance.”

Spencer admitted he sees WDAV as an “instrument by which we make people aware of Davidson and hopefully interest them in the College and get their support.” Spencer, who admitted he is supposed to uphold the College Constitution, said that this “is the first time I've had that brought to my attention. I’m not the one to interpret; that’s exactly what the constitutional committee is supposed to do. It may not be clear, but if you’re going to pay professors, and build libraries, and buy books, you've got to find the money,” declared Spencer.

...PAC discusses Tenure Committee (Continued from page 1)

Proponents of such a committee stress the advantages of sharing the responsibility of tenure decisions over leaving it entirely upon the Academic Vice President's shoulders. Opponents argue that faculty should not be burdened with the responsibility of making decisions that would greatly affect the career of a peer. Time consumption is another disadvantage.

MacCormac made a similar proposal for a tenure committee in the spring. He recommended that students on the committee be given voting power. The SGA proposal calls for student participation on the committee, but without voting power. SGA President Bruce Brown explained, “Voting students would be impossible to realize politically.” He said a problem would arise with the method of selection. Brown emphasized, however, that students do not need a vote to be helpful or effective.

EDMUNT INSURANCE AGENCY, INC.
BARGER CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
GENERAL CONTRACTORS
P. O. BOX 30 / TELEPHONE 663-3611
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
M.A. WICKER
137 NORTH MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON
TELEPHONE (704) 892-1905