Volume LXVII, Number TEN

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036

SENIORS KENT Carr and Fred Webber snicker with delight as sophomore Eddie Haskell composes himself before entering the Registrar's office.

(Bill Haley)

V.P. calls for new committee

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
News Editor

Vice-President Price Zimmermann has established a new committee charged with studying Davidson's course enrollment.

The task force, a new subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), will focus on such issues as regularly over-subscribed courses, the equity of teaching loads, the impact of physical facilities on enrollment, scheduling and course distribution, patterns of class size within departments, and the impact of shifting student interest on enrollment.

Zimmermann said the subcommittee is "a response to student complaints and problems that exist currently. There are many roots to the problem. This is an attempt to take a systematic approach."

Zimmermann named Mathematics Professor Benjamin Klein chairman of the subcommittee and is in the process of finalizing the committee's membership.

New foreign-study program approved

By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

Students will be able to study in a new program to be sponsored by Davidson and UNCC-Charlotte. Davidson’s participation in the Semester in India program includes a preliminary week orientation period at UNCC, ten and one-half weeks of study at Madras University (located in the city of Madras, in southern India), four weeks of study at historical and cultural sites across India, and two weeks of individual travel and study in India.

The program will be conducted with assistance from the South Atlantic States Association for South Asian and African Studies (SASASAAS), of which Davidson and UNCC are members.

According to David Kaylor, acting director of Davidson’s South Asian Studies Program, applications for admission to the program are now being accepted.

December 1, 1978

Student Auditions Held

WDAV to end its long hiatus

By CHARLES ERWIN
News Editor

College Radio Station WDAV is scheduled to sign back on the air Friday at 7 a.m. — ending its seven-week broadcasting hiatus. The station, which has for months been a source of acrimony, rancor, and controversy on campus, will play little but classical music for the next few weeks, according to Communications Director Martha Roberts.

On Tuesday night, Roberts told a group of 20 students that it is "conceivable," although "unlikely," that WDAV will remain a totally classical station in the future.

Whether it does or not will depend largely on the person who is hired to be "Director of Radio," the major new administrative position recently approved by the college’s Board of Trustees, she told the students. She said the director will be "the ultimate authority, the main figure" over WDAV.

"From what I understand he doesn’t want this job," they said. Lovell will continue doing much of the work he has done in the past.

Roberts revealed that several people have already been interviewed for the director of radio’s position, but said none of them have possessed all of the "three talents" that the administration wants in the person it hires. She said the administration is looking for someone with a great deal of experience in radio, someone who knows classical music backwards and forwards, and someone who has a good rapport with "young people."

"Many things about the station will simply not be decided until we get a director of radio," she explained to the group.

Although both College President Samuel Spencer and Roberts deny that a demotion is implied, Don Lovell’s title has been changed from "Executive Director" of WDAV to "part-time Community Relations Coordinator."

Lovell refused to comment on the change, but a source close to the matter said it was Lovell himself who was behind it. They explained that being director of the station now will involve a lot more work than when students were running WDAV.

"From what I understand he doesn’t want this job," they said. Lovell will continue doing much of the work he has done in the past.

Roberts revealed that several people have already been interviewed for the director of radio’s position, but said none of them have possessed all of the "three talents" that the administration wants in the person it hires. She said the administration is looking for someone with a great deal of experience in radio, someone who knows classical music backwards and forwards, and someone who has a good rapport with "young people."

"I very seriously doubt we will find one with all three strengths," Roberts admitted. She then suggested the administration may have to settle for someone with only two of the qualifications, then hire an additional professional who meets the third.

Until a director of radio is hired, junior Frances Wilson, one of the first former WDAV staff members to be rehired, will be in charge of the station’s day-to-day operations.

Tenure Committee comes up for vote

By PROFESSIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE (PAC) Chairman Brown Patterson

The tenure committee would be a formalization of the role the faculty already plays in the evaluation process. The Code of Faculty Evaluation calls for an evaluation procedure which includes faculty feedback, and the tenure committee is the channel through which the PAC and Zimmermann plan to gather this feedback.

Although the committee would perform in an advisory capacity, Patterson said, "The feeling among the faculty is that the President (who makes the final decision) will probably not overturn a recommendation of the committee."

The proposal for the tenure committee was presented to the faculty on November 21. It requires a simple majority vote to be adopted as an amendment to the Faculty Bylaws.