January 27, 1978 The Davidsonian IMAC Report

BB&H hail best-dressed hoopsters

By BAD BERNARD and HOGMAN

Bernie and H-man have noticed in the past few weeks that the changes in the weather have also brought a change in the fashions sported by our IMAC celebrities. No longer can a student head toward the gym in his cut-offs, T-shirt, and old Chuck Taylors. Instead, because of increased interest in all levels of IMAC competition, it has become just as important to look like a “player” to be one. Now on weeknights, the gym is crowded with purple and green vertically striped warm-up suits, orange Nikes with red trim, and so on. From these well-attired athletes, Bad Bernard and Hogman have selected our first-team best-dressed candidates:

Malcolm Lester—guard. Malc brings the old English look to the hardwood, with his tweed coat and gym shorts to match (of course, shorts have ample room for a Phi Beta Kappa Key). This jack-rabbit point man complements his outfit with a woolen warm-up vest.

Jim Richards—guard. Jimmy sports the “prep” image as he wears his 100 percent cotton IZOD button-down tank top to his ball games. He rounds out his outfit with a fur-lined jock strap and a Columbo trench coat.

Bert Downs—forward. Called the best small forward in IMAC by some, Al Pacino by others, and Punt by Dawn, Bert brings the conservative look to the court. Last seen on a break-away slam dunk, Bert was wearing a tie-dyed “make love, not war” tank-top. Bert completes this ensemble with black high-top Pro Keds with glow-in-the-dark shoestrings.

David Shi—forward. Davy brings the “disco” look to Johnston gym. He enjoys wearing a 100 percent dacron polyester headband that reads “Go Stitch” and a pair of tight-fitting quadro-knot gym shorts. His image is enhanced by a pair of high-top platform converses (purple, of course).

Percy Badham—center. This big man dominated the hoop scene with the Jonathan Winters look. Percy begins his outfit with a Munsingwear Penguin Shirt (blue) and matching “Roll Tide” gym shorts. He finalizes his outfit with a pair of Dr. Scholl’s Correctional Shoes.

Bernie and H-man also would like to be the first to pass on to you students some of the new course offerings which Dr. Zimmermann plans on implementing next fall term. They are:

Religion 222—Grading Ethics and the Student—T. Rogerson.
Sociology 556—Marriage and the Family—M. Partin.
Biology 22—Personal Hygiene and Hairstyles Made Easy—P. Minter.
Education 901—Teaching Deaf Children to Hear—S. Maloney.
Independent Study—Big Car Mechanics—J. Cornell and T. Bird.
PE 301—Tackle Football—H. Jackson and R. Barber.
Religion 401—Hebrew Prophets—Ed Farell.
Sociology 987—Race Relations—C. Davidson.

In the A-league last week, half the teams won and the other half lost. The two teams Bad Bernie and Hogman said to watch, The Mothership Connection and SAE, are still undefeated. Bob “I want press” Lapple and Mike Peskosky are blazing the nets for the Connection, and their record has soared to 5-0. A.D. Wilson paced the SAEs past the Road-Runners with his game-high 16 points. The E’s are now 5-0 also. Gifford Piercy buried the Bargain Basement with his 24 points and his hurtin’ for Certin’ ball club remains undefeated. 

In a big game last week between two of our top ten teams, Locke “I walk like a bird” White swished a charity shot with no time on the clock to edge McFunk and Dr. Deal past a tough Hand Sown, Home Grown team, 33-32. Roger Hodge chipped in 14 for the losers.

In the women’s league, it looks as if Ruskeller is unstoppable behind the great play of Ann Clark. Third Cannon is looking good and so are their players. Hi M.W. Twice as Nice has won three in a row behind the dazzling play of Luke “Where are my yellow boots” Skywalker.

In the B league, all teams are doing as well as can be expected.with their limited talent. The B.S. Express has become a team to look out for, and Sanders and Haskell say they are better than their 5-0 record indicates. The big news over the weekend was that somebody let the Mad Dog out of his pen, and he bit several people. John Peeples is still recovering from his wound, and James Gelly is still being hospitalized. It was also reported that Pepe Lopez was seen on campus Saturday night, and as a result, a hustling Lapple Sheridan Rescue Squad had to whisk a barfing Bad Bernie to the infirmary to be treated for the ravages of alcoholic abuse. And finally, what all you peons have been waiting for, our Bad Bernie-Hogman A League Top Ten:

1. The Mothership Connection
2. SAE
3. Hurtin’ for Certin’
4. Tex’s KAs
5. McFunk and Dr. Deal
6. Hand Sown, Home Grown
7. Tokens
8. PDT
9. Sweet Ebony
10. The Old Men

Shooters anticipate record
By TOM NIBLOCK
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Rifle Team, now at mid-season, is well on the way to posting its best record ever. In a recent Western Carolina Conference meet, the Cats picked up wins over Clemson, Wake Forest, South Carolina State, and Presbyterian. Fifth-ranked Appalachian St. took top honors at the meet with Wofford College placing second. A narrow victory over Wake Forest in a one-on-one rematch on January 14 leaves Davidson now with a very respectable 11-3 record.

Davidson's recent successes are largely due to an intensive rebuilding program that began three years ago under former Coach Jerry Flannigan. Each of the past three years, the team has recruited several dedicated shooters, more than offsetting the loss of graduating seniors. Several outstanding sophomores and three new freshmen are in the wings to fill the gap that will be left when Tom Miller, the team’s only senior, graduates in May. The recent purchase of five new weapons from the now-defunct East Carolina team has also helped by temporarily easing the equipment situation.

The next five weeks will be busy ones for the Rifle Team. Due to steady individual improvement, spirits are high as the pre-season goal of bettering last year’s 18-8 record looms near. The Cats’ next match will be a Southern Conference postal meet to be held this week. On February 4, Davidson will host the powerful team from VMI. On February 11, Davidson will be visited by the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga, Campbell College, and North Carolina A&T. The following weekend, the Wildcats travel to Presbyterian College for the Western Carolina Conference Tournament and then end the 1977-78 season on February 25, when Davidson travels to VMI for the Southern Conference Championships.

Results:
Men’s Basketball: 8-10
Davidson 84, USC 73
Davidson 69, VMI 89
Davidson 56, William and Mary 65

Women’s Basketball: 3-5
Davidson 58, UNCC 60

Swimming: 5-2
Davidson 76, VMI 37
Davidson 42, Madison 71
Davidson 35, William and Mary 78

Planned Parenthood. We give help. Not sermons.

One thing you'll never hear at Planned Parenthood is a sermon on sexual behavior. But we don’t preach. What you will hear are some straight answers to any questions you may have about sex. And some ready solutions to your problems, including abortion service in our own clinic for women under 12 weeks pregnant. We also provide free pregnancy testing and counseling. We can help you with birth control methods. And we can tell you where to go for pre-natal care and adoption services, infertility problems, female sterilization, and V.D. treatment. At Planned Parenthood, we can help you in a lot of different ways. And the way we figure it, sparing you a sermon is one of them.

Planned Parenthood of Greater Charlotte, 951 S. Independence Blvd. at McDowell, Charlotte, N.C. 28202. CALL US AT 377-0841.