The Davidsonian

November 3, 1978

The Barber of Seville treats virgin Davidson audience

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Features Editor

The hundreds of Halloweeners in Love Auditorium last night got a real treat. The New York City Opera Theatre Company
presented Rossini’s “The Barber of Seville” in an enthusiastic production that was quite simply fun.

The opera-comique, at first conceived by Caron de Beaumarchais, was intended to do more than entertain. Beaumarchais wrote a three-part
novel in the 18th century which centered on the Barber of Seville. Gioacchino Rossini set the first book to music—this
is what Davidson saw last night.

Since this was written in the 18th century during a time of French and English conflict, there is a social
edge that today’s audiences don’t completely catch.

The second book about the barber was set to music by Mozart. It is entitled the “Marriage of Figaro” and
contains the same characters. The third book was never set to music, probably because in this final text Beaumarchais detailed
the deaths of many of his characters.

All history aside, what came across in last night’s performance was the comedy and its energy. The translation of the
work itself was excellent. Lines like “Money is a great incentive. Now be inventive,” peppered the script.

“Opera is not an elitist thing,” explained music professor James Swisher. “That’s why we do operas in English.” Mr. Swisher
commented that there were some diction problems in last night’s performance. “The consonants were not stressed enough.” This was apparent
especially in the chorus and ensemble scenes. Then one was bombarded by the words and music and the effect was
often less concentrated on the words and meanings and more attention to the costumes, set, and acting.

“In opera there are three things going on simultaneously—words, music, and action,” explained Dr. Swisher. “Our tendency in the 20th
century has been to train our singers. We need all three equal.”

The ability of the performers to act was indeed overshadowed by their ability to sing. The exception to this was
Alfred Anderson as Figaro. Figaro was such a dynamic character he almost overwhelmed the other performers. His gestures, his eyes
all helped bring him to the center of the stage no matter where he was. In the final scene this
domination by Anderson was especially apparent. Any romantic mood established by the love duet between Rosina and the Count was
overshadowed by the commanding figure of Figaro. In fact, Figaro was so good that he almost overshadowed Roger Lucas as
Count Almaviva. The opening aria for this tenor was obviously a bit out of his reach. The subsequent entrance of
the dynamic Figaro rather left one wondering about who should be considered the lover.

But Lucas redeemed himself in subsequent scenes. His disguises as a drunkard and music professor worked effectively. His wimpy red-haired
rendition of the “Don Alfonso” was especially beguiling. In this role his forced falsetto voice combined to make Don Alfonso
a hysterical character.

As Rosina, Arlene Randazzo was absolutely enchanting. She looked the part and her soprano rang true during the difficult arias
of despair and ensembles of joy. Several times her strong vibrato resounded while his commanding figure dominated. Her costumes complete
with tortoiseshell hair comb, red flowers behind her ears, and ruffled gowns, helped to complete the image.

The sets were typical of those of a traveling show—minimal. Although they did not effectively project the startling beauty of
Seville, they did serve as a white-washed showcase for the colorful characters to dance around on. In the opinion of
Assistant Professor of Drama Joe Gardner, the sets did indeed “remain subservient to the actors.” But this neutral kind of
background made the actors in costume look bright.

The costumes were excellent and quite detailed. The flowered fan, ruffled bodices, and Spanish shawls of Rosina were especially convincing.
The Count was divinely dressed in gold, blue, and white brocade in the last scene; this contrasted nicely with the
buffoonery of his red-wigged Don Alfonso. The purple robes of Dr. Bartolo seemed a bit overdone at first, but as
his character unfolded it seemed quite appropriate that he should wear such pompous and silly clothes.

The orchestration, conducted by Gregg Strader, was first rate. Indeed, at times the music seemed to overshadow what was going
on on stage. Perhaps this is because opera orchestras are usually placed in pits and therefore are used to playing
a little louder. In any event, the orchestration was excellent—the sight of those long-haired and involved musicians sometimes just as
interesting as the events on stage.

According to the company members themselves, the Davidson audience was “one of the best we’ve ever had.” William Brown and
others at the Union are to be congratulated for selling out the house. Instead of ringing doorbells and collecting candy,
the nearly-packed house at Love Auditorium got an even sweeter treat—a thoroughly enjoyable evening of comedy opera.

New Hours:
Tues.-Sat.: 4 PM-9 PM
EASTERN STYLE B.B.Q.
SEAFOOD.
On Hwy. 21 in Cornelius, N.C.
(1 mile South of Piedmont Bank)
Phone 892-3362

PLANNED PARENTHOOD
WE OFFER THE FOLLOWING:
CONTRACEPTION
PREGNANCY TESTING
COUNSELING
EARLY ABORTION
VASECTOMY
SPEAKERS
LIBRARY
FILMS
CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD 377-0841

TOLKIEN POSTERS
Have Arrived
The Copeland House Gallery
Davidson, N.C.
