December 8, 1978

The Davidsonian

Only Contested Race

Pidgeon, Summerell vie for Union vice-presidency

By MARK BARRETT
Staff Writer

Julia Pidgeon and J.J. Summerell are vying for the only contested College Union position in this year’s election, the Social
Vice Presidency.

Jim Robertson is running unopposed for the Union Presidency, and Jamie Ashmore has no competitors for the job of Co-Curricular
Vice President. Al Rak had been registered as a candidate for Union President, but announced Wednesday that he has withdrawn
his candidacy.

The Union Social Vice President oversees various recreational and social offerings of the Union, while the Union Co-Curricular Vice President
is in charge of cultural and educational programs. The Union President coordinates these two departments and handles major organizational duties.

Pidgeon, a sophomore, says she is running because, “I enjoy working with people and have abilities and ideas which I
wish to contribute to the Union and the students.”

“I hope to help provide a large variety of social activities. I will be receptive to ideas from the student
body and hope to get people excited about and involved in Union programs.”

She gave as some of her qualifications, “my desire to work and my previous experience this year includes helping with
freshman orientation, working on publicity and tickets for the Artist’s Series, and being head of publicity for the Top Hats
and Cat Tails Talent Show.”

J.J. Summerell, a junior, said he decided to run because, “I wish to channel my energies into something constructive in
an area besides academics. I now have some free time and would like to contribute it to the school.”

“One of the things I would hope to accomplish as Social Vice President is to continue improvement in coordination among
Patterson Court members and between Patterson Court and the Union, with the aim of having an even distribution of social
events through the year.

“I would also like to promote, although with a different approach than has been previously taken, social contacts between UNCC
and Davidson, and to increase the variety of social events available to the Davidson student in general.”

Although he admitted he did not have a great deal of experience in Union affairs, Summerell commented that he has
an adequate beginning knowledge of the Union, and has been discussing the Union with some of its committee chairmen. He
closed by saying, “I have the time, ability, and desire to do a good job.”

Robertson, a junior history major, said he is looking forward to the opportunity to work in the Union as its
president.

“I hope to make the Union a place that will truly serve the College community—not just an alternative to academics,
but an important part of the overall Davidson experience. I would like to integrate the Union more into the general
lifestyle of the College and get students involved in its working on its activities.

“I am especially concerned with getting many ideas from students for Union offerings, and in providing a good variety of
these activities.

“I also intend to investigate the possibility of using the facilities of the upcoming College Commons for Union programs.”

Ashmore, also a junior, said he is anxious to begin work as Co-Curricular Vice President, but that he was sorry
that “student apathy was such that I am running unopposed.”

Ashmore said he will concentrate his efforts on “coordinating the Co-Curricular subcommittees, getting more people involved in co-curricular activities.”

JULIE PIDGEON (above left) and J.J. Summerell (above right) are both in the race for Union Social Vice President. Jim
Robertson (below) has a certain victory in his unopposed campaign for Union President. (Parks Snead)

$800 tuition credit?

(Continued from page 1)

In the 1975-76 school year, North Carolina students attending private schools began to benefit from another program, the Legislative Tuition
Grant Program. Every North Carolina student at a private school—regardless of financial need—was given an outright tuition credit of $200.
That amount was increased to $300 in 1977-78, and now stands at $400.

Thus, each student from North Carolina attending an in-state private school receives an average of $600, courtesy of N.C. taxpayers.
The two programs cost $13.8 million dollars last year, including the quarter of a million dollars for Davidson.

The controversy that is expected to erupt in the legislature centers around a request by the private schools to increase
the Legislative Tuition Grant Program—the outright tuition credit—by $200 by 1980-81.

Governor Jim Hunt has indicated that he will endorse the $200 increase. To be continued next week.

The coming installment focuses on the debate between the UNC board and private schools. Davidson President Samuel Spencer comments on
the arguments pro and con for the private schools’ proposal.

KITCHEN

BANQUET ROOMS AVAILABLE
LARGE OR SMALL PARTIES
ALL TAKE OUT ORDERS
375-7449

314 S. Main Cornelius
Just Past Cashions Grocery

SPECIAL THIS WEEK
Bacon-Cheddar Cheese Burger
5 oz. Ground beef covered with bacon and smothered with cheddar cheese. Comes with an order of French fries and
a 16 oz. Coke.
ONLY $2.25

Paddy Burger
5 oz. Ground beef topped with mushrooms and Swiss cheese.
