By JIM VITHA Staff Writer

What constitutes "good music" anymore? When "Rolling Stone" virtually devoted an entire issue to the discussion of the merits of disco music, many readers were appalled, but some were more amused than anything else. It seems as if popular music has become a static experience ranging from the banality of disco music to the glossy rock epitomized by the Eagles, Chicago, Kansas, and Styx.

This is not to say that recent popular music has no merit. Undoubtedly, music produced today has never been more superbly crafted and put together. This is true of Donna Summer as well as Blondie or even Cheap Trick.

Even the critically acclaimed groups and individuals are suffering from new scrutiny. Perhaps some people are tired of the ravings of Elvis Costello, the rumblings of the Ramones, or the same street songs from Bruce Springsteen. However, there are groups that do offer a different perspective to popular music today. These are groups that sing with a passion and with a precision that is exciting to listen to, while possibly still espousing a philosophy or a way of life. These are performers such as Rockpile, with Dave Edmunds and Nick Lowe, the Tom Robinson Band, David Johanson, or Mink DeVille.

One such group is Graham Parker and the Rumour. Parker has literally been abused by the music industry. He is certainly on an artistic level comparable to Elvis Costello, while not having quite as many nihilistic urges. However, his former record label, Mercury, did little or nothing to promote his career. He has since changed labels to Arista, and with his new album, "Squeezing Out Sparks," released and a spring concert tour proceeding as planned, his career will hopefully prosper.

"Squeezing Out Sparks" is Parker’s best album since "Heat Treatment," which was produced by Nick Lowe and used horns to bolster the rhythm and blues sound of Parker. On "Squeezing Out Sparks," Parker has switched producers to Jack Nitzsche and opted for a grittier sound emphasizing guitars, drums, and bass. "Squeezing Out Sparks" has a sound fairly reminiscent of Elvis Costello's, in that both Parker and Costello have voices which sound as if sand has been poured down their throats. However, this sound is not new; one can imagine hearing the fleeting vocal work of Ray Charles or even Jerry Lee Lewis in Parker’s songs. Although this style of singing is not as polished as Neil Diamond's or the calculated rasp of Rod Stewart's vocals, it has power, and what’s more, it is sung with an intensity one has to admire.

Parker's songs do not really portray a unified theme; he simply enjoys playing good music. The main thrust of the album is chordal rhythm and blues, but the type of rhythm and blues heard in bars with a guitar player, bass player, and a drummer all cooking at once. This style is best heard in "Don’t Get Excited" and "Discovering Japan." Some have said "Discovering Japan" is the best Graham Parker song ever written and this very well may be true.

Music these days may be static, but Graham Parker and the Rumour would certainly lead one to believe otherwise. They have convinced this writer that rock and roll does.have a bright future and, as written in a Graham Parker advertisement, “the decade is finally toughening up.”

The Back Page
On Campus and Elsewhere

The real thing in pants made for women, except for the fit. And they don't cut or bind because they're made for a woman, not a man, in comfortable 100% cotton denim. With five pockets, even a watch pocket for your bus fare. And legs so super straight, they're perfect for boots or any other kicking around you'd like to do. Quality never goes out of style.

The Jean Shoppe
Downtown Mooresville
"Your Levi Store"
Men’s & Women’s Jeans
Three Piece Vested Suits
Dresses
Skirts
Dress Pants
Swimwear

Thursday, April 26
7:00 Annual Art Auction Gallery
7:30 Student Opening of the Spring Major Drama Production: Guys and Dolls, Hodson Hall
8:00 Films: Last Grave at Dimbaza, Land of Promise, Morrison Room

Friday, April 27
11:00 Spring Convocation: Speaker, Mr. Jason McManus ‘56, editor of Time magazine, Love Auditorium
7:30 New Schoolhouse of Arts Drama Production: Marco Polo, Cornelius Elementary School
8:00 & 10:30 Pop film: Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Love Auditorium
8:15 Student Organ Recital: Robin Dinda, DCPC
8:15 Guys and Dolls, Hodson Hall
10:00 Student Showcase: a variety of music performed by Davidson students, 900 Room

Saturday, April 28
All Day Children’s Schoolhouse Fair, Village Green
1:00-3:00 Opening Reception for John Evans’ Senior Exhibition, Union Gallery
2:00 New Schoolhouse of Arts Drama Production: Marco Polo, Cornelius Elementary School
2:00 Concert: Youth Symphony, Methodist Home of the Carolinas—no charge, Charlotte
8:15 Guys and Dolls, Hodson Hall

Sunday, April 29
1:30 Early Music Group
3:00 New Schoolhouse of Arts Drama Production: Marco Polo, Cornelius Elementary School
4:00 Piano Recital: Cynthia Fok Lawing, Love Auditorium
8:00 Davidson Christian Fellowship, Morrison Room

Monday, April 30
10:00 Lecture on the Doctrine of Christ — Prof. Shirley Guthrie, Columbia Theological Seminary, Morrison Room
8:00 Ambassador to Taiwan, 900 Room

Tuesday, May 1
10:00 Open Meeting with Dr. Spencer, Morrison Room
12:30-1:30 CROP meal, 900 Room
7:00 College Worship Service, DCPC
7:30 Opening of Student Showing, Gallery
8:00 Outing Club: Slide presentation by Dr. Zimmerman: Trial by Storm, Perkins Auditorium
8:15 Harpsichord Recital: Frank Sherrill, 900 Room

Wednesday, May 2
12:30 Open Luncheon—speaker: Dr. Barbara Ballard, 900 Room
4:00 Colloquium on Science, Technology and Human Values: “Fetus Farms: A Very Modest Proposal?” Dr. Maydole, 900 Room
7:30 Guys and Dolls, Hodson Hall
8:00 Fine Film: The Great Dictator, Love Auditorium
10:00 Cercle de Français, 900 Room

Thursday, May 3
10:00 Coffee and Cokes, Gallery
6:30 Thesis Dinner & Speaker: William Ferris, Director of the Center for the Study of Southern Culture, Oxford, Mississippi
7:30 Spring Major Drama Production: Guys and Dolls, Hodson Hall
8:00-12:00 Phi Delta Theta Band Party, Phi Delta Theta House
10:00 Disco, 900 Room

Friday, May 4
7:00 Square Dancing, Davidson Community Center. All welcome.

Sports

Thursday, April 26
7:30 Baseball: UNC-Chapel Hill, Away

Friday, April 27
Track: Southern Conference Championships, Appalachian State

Saturday, April 28
Baseball: VMI, Away
Track: Southern Conference Championships, Appalachian State

Monday, April 30
1:00 Baseball: Marshall, Away
Golf: Southern Conference Tournament, Pinehurst, N.C.

Tuesday, May 1
Golf: Southern Conference Tournament, Pinehurst, N.C.

Wednesday, May 2
3:00 Baseball: Elon, Davidson
Golf: Southern Conference Tournament, Pinehurst, N.C.

Thursday, May 3
3:00 Baseball: Warren Wilson, Away