September 28, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

More verbal sewage from B&BB
By BONEHEAD and the BRICK BROTHERS
IMAC Columnists

As a special feature in this week’s column, B & BB bring you an exclusive from the sports departments of
the AP, UPI, and NRA. It is the national flickerball bottom five. The teams here, you will notice, are included
not only because of their lack of talent, but also because of their anal compulsive nature.

1) SPE: Any bottom 5 would be bottomless without the SPE’s who are, without a doubt, the country’s most anal
team. The “obnoxious in victory, bitter in defeat” boys have been extremely bitter this year, a trait going back to
1947. We don’t know the names of any of their players, but then we don’t care to either, so don’t
introduce yourselves. Abuse.

PIKA’s: The Campus Spastics are back again for another epileptic season. Bagel-eating team leader Boz has already torn up his
ankle, and other mishaps are sure to follow for this analitic club. In truth, the PIKA’s exist solely for the
enjoyment of freshman teams who have no success otherwise. Remember, as far as flickerball is concerned, PIKA is Foosball.

PAX SOS: Aside from their orgiastic practices, the coed PAXites (not to be confused with bauxite, a mineral commonly found
in the Piedmont area and used in the production of aluminum) have been too tired for most of their games
this year. Nan “nanu-nanu” Zimmerman heads a weak team that would be greatly aided by the return of the Wilmington
2. What do you think, Perk?

EAST MEN: These women suffer from delusions of masculinity. However, don’t fault the freshmen; they are mere pawns. The real
problem lies with the hall counselors—one of whom is a SPE, the other is worse. Need we say more? Oh,
almost forgot—wanna take a forfeit?

OLD MEN: Ranked #4 just one short week ago, this proud band of antediluvian warriors has suffered a precipitous decline.
Decimated by aneurisms, the old men have collapsed in B & BB’s intricate rating system. Furthermore, even Freshmen halls have
learned how to attack the once solid defense. They drop their drawers in front of defensive RE “killer Kelton” and
simply run right past him as he pauses to analyze the concomitant Freudian implications. Nowadays it really is easy to
“psych” out the Old Fogies. Rest in peace, Sterling and Disco Dave.

Close but not quite bad enough...
The yard apes: These freshmen prefer to play with their bananas up their eyes rather than in their mouths. Last
week, in a play reminiscent of PIKA glories, Raoul Adham Abdul Rabman Aziz (who prefers to be called by his
newly-adopted Southern Baptist name, Bobby Moore) and Dennis Brown were involved in a collision that resulted in a league-leading 15
stitches. Both are now questionable for Sunday’s game with Dallas.

And now to the scores...
The E-baggers solidified their #1 ranking by drilling some freshmen, 51-6 and 45-3. Led by anachtic, peripatetic, and good Jim
(call me Dick) Richards, the E’s are rolling through a preppy schedule. Also starring were David (call me Dave) Rain.

Inexperience hurt golfers
By BOE YOUNG
Staff Writer

The Davidson College 1979-1980 golf team began their season with what coach Tim Tallent deemed a “disappointing but not unexpected”
showing at the James Madison University Invitational Tournament held in Harrisonburg, Virginia, last weekend. Led by junior L.D. Simmons, captain,
the team consists of senior Mark Hess, junior Brett Storm, sophomore Yancey Carter, and freshmen John Mann and Bob Whalen.
After three days the team managed a combined score of 1230, enough to place them 11th in a field of
sixteen.

Tallent said he was not surprised by the play due to the amount of inexperience on the team. He noted
the team has three newcomers on it and their lack of tournament play made it difficult to score well. The
low score on the team was posted by Simmons with 233 (79-77-77) followed by Storm with 243 (81-82-80) and Whalen
with 246 (80-87-79). The tournament was held on two different courses and in a driving rain on two of the
three days. The weather slowed down play and good scores were rare.

Tallent explains that Davidson works with a limited budget and this is a contributing factor to their competitiveness. They do
not have the money of big universities yet still outspend smaller schools such as Catawba. Alumni are willing to give
money to the team, but the Board of Trustees will not allow it. Even though not one cent would go
to scholarships, they feel it would lower the school’s academic standards.According to team sources, to keep the team at a
competitive level, Tallent scouts the big junior tournaments. He says, “I try to sell the school’s academic excellence and the
good facilities nearby such as the Charlotte Country Club and the recently opened Mallard Head.” Tallent looks toward the future
with enthusiasm. The next tournament is scheduled for November 1-3, and he emphasizes the team will work extremely hard in
the following weeks, focusing mainly on problems encountered in the tournament.

Waddill, Joby (call me stupid) Mertin, and Andy (call me Anne) McDonald. The #2 ranked KA’s burned some more froshees
in Shermanesque fashion 59-5 and 48-1. Hill staved off Reconstruction with 3 TD passes, and Andy informs us that the
Southmen used exactly 14,856,291,526 nerve impulses in their last win. Ever-returning alumnus Percy “Knute” Badham says he’s really proud of
the boys but is disappointed in early season Snack Bar attendance.

HURTIN’ 4 CERTAIN: The #3 team has also been running roughshod over the neophytes. Scores such as 47-7 and 70-10
are not uncommon. Ed (call me John) Haskell has upped his pass completion percentage to 63.6 while X (call me
Jeff) Ray picked off 2 more passes to increase his league-leading total to 5. Also, Blaine (call me Blah) Sanders
had 12 tackles and 4 assists while Dave (call me Dave) Welchman increased his rushing average to 5.6 yards per
carry, second only to Walter Payton, according to statistics released tomorrow by the league office. Other scores: 200-99, Astros 3
Reds 2, Bills 51 Bengals 24, Orioles 5 Steelers 3, 6-2, 8-1, 32-32.

Lapple.

THIS WEEK'S TOP TEN
1. SAE
2. KA
3. HURTIN’ 4 CERTAIN
4. WILD ONES
5. CARIBOU LIPS
6. WARKS
7. BORN TO RUN
8. LAFAYETTE
9. RECKLESS ABANDON
10. LONGITUDINAL FORCES

L.D. Simmons watches as putt rolls to the cup: Simmons is the captain of the golf team. (Boe Young)

Wildcat John Fletcher snares a pass from the Lafayette quarterback to aid in Saturday’s Davidson win. (Kenny Conner)

Wildcats’ latest win lands them in top ten of division
By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

With a sluggish 16-13 win over Lafayette last Saturday, Davidson has moved into the national polls for Division 1-AA. They
broke into the chart as the number 10 team in the division. While the Davidson offense made mistakes which led
to Lafayette’s 13 points, the Wildcats’ “rubber band” defense played more like a brick wall in the Davidson triumph.

This week the Wildcats have the first road trip of the season to meet Bucknell in Lewisburg, Pa. The Bisons
provide another big contest for the ’Cats and are rated two touchdowns better than the Lafayette club. A large, physical
football team, Bucknell runs a 4-4 defense and employs a wing-2 offense that features small, quick backs behind a big
offensive line. Kickoff time is 1:30, Saturday afternoon.

The Davidson offense sputtered and stumbled last Saturday before deciding the contest in the last two minutes. Lafayette drew first
blood by blocking a Wayne Paymer punt and returning it six yards for the score. Davidson then tied the score
with a 98-yard drive, ending with a Ray Sinclair dive for the TD. Both teams missed the extra points to
tie the score at 6-6. Davidson drove deep into Lafayette territory but had to settle for a 28-yard field goal
by Wayne Paymer to exit the score 9-6 for halftime.

With momentum in their favor, the Wildcats took possession of the ball early in the second half after the defense
stopped Lafayette cold. The offense quickly churned out a first down and seemed about to mount a drive when Lafayette
picked off an errant Brian Whitmire pass and returned it 43 yards for a touchdown. The score stayed at 13-9
in favor of Lafayette throughout a slugfest.

Early in the fourth quarter, the offense caught fire and drove inside the Lafayette 10 before Ray Sinclair fumbled to
stop the drive. The defense held again, and Lafayette punted to their own 46, where the Cats were back in
business. Alvin Atkinson scored the winning touchdown from two yards out with less than two minutes remaining. But just moments
earlier, Davidson had been faced with fourth down and three yards on the Lafayette 22. With the Leopard defense expecting
a run, quarterback Al Rhyne, having replaced Whitmire in the second quarter, raised up and threw low and ahead of
Gifford Piercy. Piercy made a tremendous diving catch at the 14. Atkinson then carried three straight times to punch the
ball over. Despite the offense’s total yards, the defense came up with two key interceptions. Piercy caught a pass for
yards.
