{Continued from page 1} selected next year’s theme, chose biographies because he feels that most people are interested in the
relationship between a writer's life and his work. Abbott hopes to explore questions such as how a biography is written
and what the sequence of survey courses, according to Abbott. In addition to establishing 495, the department has rearranged the
sequence of courses which are prerequisites for 495. Majors will be required to take at least three survey courses before
495. The department feels this will help students build a broad, cohesive knowledge of literature. During the transition between the
old system and the new, the requirements for the class of 1980 will be altered. The class of 1980 will
have the (Continued from page 1) Kehs continued, “Regarding a student station, I feel that those interested in radio should
have opportunities to learn from working on it. Now there aren’t enough places for those interested in radio and a
carrier current station run by students might fill that need. Personally, I don’t have the time to work on another
station.” But WDAV seems to be firmly grounded and anxiously awaiting the arrival of a Music Director to establish a
regular format. Payne concluded, “This has turned out pretty well—a lot better than I thought it would be.” WDAV Stuart
option of taking either the old courses 399 and 499, or the new course 495 plus one elective. This elective
will make up for losses in the transition. The class of 1981 will be the first class to take 495
and its prerequisites in sequence. Cole and Abbott both feel that the involvement of all the majors with all the
professors will be interesting and enriching. Under the present program, many majors graduate without having had all the professors. All
the professors agreed on the design of the course, according to Cole. They do not see any major disadvantage to
495. Cole said that all the students and professors cannot be matched in independent study. The new course seems to
appeal to students as well. Junior English major Leslie Miller said she likes 495 and thinks that it will be
a “big staff members minimum wage. Although WDAV plans to continue employment of students, the need for another outlet for
student involvement in radio has not been gauged. SGA President Bruce Brown hopes to organize a group to investigate all
the options and possible interest. “It’s hard to get people interested in a vague wish or possibility,” said Brown. “We’re
still not sure of what DAV will be offering to students and consequently how much need there is for a
new station.” Payne feels that many creative interests of students could be fulfilled during the 10 pm to 1 am
slot. “McIntyre has asked us already for ideas,” he added. (Continued from page 6) scholarships to Davidson. For the first
time, the semi-finalists have been invited to come to Davidson for their interviews, with the aim of exposing them to
Davidson so that they may choose this school even if they don’t win the scholarship. They are scheduled to visit
campus on Friday and Saturday, February 9 and 10, each having two interviews on Saturday. Sixteen of them will be
invited to come back in March for final "The majors yarns cece a heen North Carolina, with The majority of
the nominees are quite a few from Virginia, a few from each of the other Southern states, and even two
from New York and Missouri. Many of the 43 male and 22 female candidates will need a place to stay
Friday night (Feb. 9). If you're interested, sign up in Wi Terry’s office. Here's a list of the semi-finalists—see if
there’s anyone you know: Jay Abbott, Mort Ames, Bobby Barnes, Anne Beeson, Mike Bennett, Lyn Bolen, Tim Brotherton, Edward Brown,
Karrie Buckner, Scott Campbell, Jim Crowe, Leon Dantzler, Alison Darden, Becky Dixon, Elbert Dorn, Dan Drais, Charles Duvall, John Eley,
Cari Elliott, Alan Fields, Susan Flynn, Roy Fuller, Nan Gillespie, Jose Grave de Peralta, Bill Grey,| Celeste Griffin, Cynthia Gunnue,
Holly Hanor, Mary Helm, Merris Hollingsworth, Carol Hoopes, John Horton, Jerry Hudgins, Elizabeth Kiss, Warren Lackey, Suzanne Hutchings, Ray Joyner,
Tom Lawrence, John Mann, McGee, Susan Mast, Van Morgan, Kim McAllister, Sharron Catherine McMillan, Judy Newman, Marvin Overby, Jeff Payne,
Adam Peck, Albert Potter, David Quattlebaum, Austin Rauniker, Tim Ritchie, John Rossitch, Bill Seel, Billy Shull, Don Stallard, Kathy Stokes,
Ellis Gordon, Danny Waddill, Stewart Wicker, Buddy Wortman, and Andrew Zontewelle. Major change in the way people look at comprehensive
finals.” Junior English major Jane Saunders believes that with 495, “students will be less afraid of comprehensive finals.” Sophomore Charles
Lemmon, a prospective English major, likes the idea of having all the professors teach the course, since they all have
varying viewpoints. Proposed by a committee consisting of Dr. L. R. King, Dr. Benjamin G. Klein, and Dr. J. B.
Stroud, the Math curriculum changes are central to the department's effort to increase the breadth of applied mathematics offered at
Davidson. Courses in mathematical modeling (Math 120), computer science (Math 125), advanced statistics (Math 149), and abstract mathematics (Math 100)
have been instituted as part of this effort. Although the number of courses required for a mathematics major will remain
ten, Jackson commented that “the new curriculum will allow for greater application of mathematics as well as increased use and
study of the computer.” Moreover, the new curriculum will raise the basic calculus requirement of Math 25 and 26 to
include Math 27, an introductory course in linear algebra, matrices, and multivariate calculus. Prerequisite to any upper-level course, Math 27
will be offered in the spring for the first time and will be comparable to Math 26 in difficulty. Jackson
described Math 27 as “essentially a combination of the introductory aspects of Math 132 and Math 137” and noted that
Math 27 as well as Math 26 will be credited toward the mathematics major. Another new course, Math 120 (Mathematical
Modeling), is an upper-level course that allows the student to use mathematical tools and the computer in an applied way
by studying various mathematical models found in the natural and social sciences. Math 125 is a computer language course covering
properties of algorithms, as well as data structures. Math 149 (Mathematical Statistics) will include a study of the relevant distribution
theory, a study of important properties of estimates, and selected topics from non-parametric statistics. Math 100 (Introduction to Abstract Mathematics)
is a course designed to bridge the gap between procedural or practically-oriented mathematics and conceptual or theoretically-oriented mathematics.

(Continued from page 3) arise from much of the faculty’s belief that they are the only ones who know how
to educate. I am disappointed by the xenophobia of some of the faculty. They simply don’t seem to realize how
much JYA has to offer.” The students also felt that certain departments were excessively strict when awarding transfer credit for
courses taken abroad. They agreed that while studying abroad does not necessarily limit one to a language major, (none of
the students The Davidsonian talked with were foreign language majors) students are often forced to change their major because their
major department will not accept the credits. Engle voiced another complaint shared by many of the students when he said,
“We need an itemized statement of where the money we pay Davidson during our junior year abroad goes to.” Park
added, “For all we know, it could be going to the athletic fund.” Davidson International Education is the associate ministry
of the First Presbyterian Church in Durham, N.C. While there he served on the Board of Ministers at Duke University
and North Carolina Central University. He was then called to Hammond, La., where he is currently minister of the First
Presbyterian Church. Although Raynal will not...
