By MIKE LINS Staff Writer

To play Varsity baseball, as well as football for freshman and sophomore years, while being married and maintaining a 3.82 GPA in the Pre-Med program might seem an impossibility. Such an impossibility has not stopped sophomore John Porter, who got married last summer, played football last fall, and now starts in centerfield for the Wildcats Baseball team. Last weekend in a doubleheader loss to James Madison University (losing by scores of 16-2 and 5-3), Porter led the Cats with a brilliant performance at the plate; he got four hits in five times at bat. One hit was a clutch double that scored two runs.

THE BASEBALL team will be playing at home this Saturday at 1:00 against Furman. As lead-off hitter for the team, Porter touts a strong .345 batting average that demonstrates his consistency in getting on base. Once on base, his lightning speed aids him in base-stealing (he leads the team with five) and in scoring runs, where he also leads the team with thirteen. While playing defense, Porter’s speed allows him to range throughout the outfield. Last year Porter alternated at shortstop. With the departure of last year’s outstanding centerfielder, Stan Brown, Coach Palmer Muench moved Porter to centerfield where his speed can best be utilized. In the Madison doubleheader, Porter so impressed the Madison coach that he was asked to play in the Valley League in Virginia this summer. With the combination of good speed, solid fielding, and strong hitting, John Porter will definitely be considered by pro scouts over the next two years. This may create an important decision for him since he desires to study medicine. At present, his 3.82 GPA makes it almost a certainty that he will get into medical school. Two of the All-American dreams lie before him: to play pro baseball and to be a physician. Which will John Porter choose? “I'd like to try to do both,” he commented. And why shouldn't he try? So far nothing has stopped him from being a great success at Davidson both academically and athletically.

April 13, 1979—The Davidsonian—

By BOB GOULD Staff Writer

The men's varsity tennis team faces some of its toughest opponents in the next week. If there is one word to describe the general attitude of the team, it would have to be “prepared.” Thanks to those wind sprints and Hopman drills, the Wildcats are in the best shape this season. In fact, Jeff Lyle feels that this year’s team is physically the best conditioned in his three years as a Varsity tennis player. More importantly, the Cats are mentally prepared for the upcoming matches. At this point, they stand with 17 wins and 6 losses and are psychologically confident. Last week’s loss to Appalachian State gave the squad a taste of what they can expect on the courts. John Trout had a commendable win over his fifth singles opponent in the match against the Mountaineers. In other action last week, the Davidson squad edged Guilford 5-4 in a match held in Greensboro. Harry Griffith, Gil Kayton, and Lyle won their singles matches. The Cats shut out Western Carolina (9-0) in a one-sided match last Saturday. This coming Tuesday, the team faces Furman at 2:00 on the home courts. The Cats are prepared; they are psyched. This match could prove to be the best tennis of the season.

Lady netters lose to N.C. State, head into last week of season

By BRYAN KELLEHER Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s tennis team heads into the final week of the regular season with a 9-5 record and high hopes for the state division tournament at Davidson beginning Thursday, April 19. Despite an 8-1 loss to tough N.C. State Tuesday, coach Pat Miller maintains that the team is looking strong. Top players Emmy Knobloch and Hope McArn have been playing very well, with McArn going undefeated in her last five matches including the only Davidson victory on Tuesday. Knobloch has won four of her last five matches. Miller says the team will be especially strong in singles in the tournament, probably taking the first or second seeds in flights one, two, three, and six, along with high seeds in doubles. The winner of the tournament goes to the regionals at William and Mary, where Davidson finished fourth last year. Before the tournament, however, the team will play three more regular season matches—against UNCC and Converse here (Thursday and Monday), and at Furman on Tuesday.

Catcall John Haskell

The beginning of the major league baseball season, as much as anything, signifies to Americans the start of spring. It’s always a fresh start for all the ballclubs, and optimism and enthusiasm radiate from each camp. No one more than the managers radiates this optimism that comes from a winter in the sun and possibly an encouraging Grapefruit League showing. It’s these quirksome managers, many having just gone through baseball’s annual winter revolving door, that add so much character to the game.much to the game. These men have over the years given baseball much of its color as they work with the intricate strategies of the game. Also, the long and demanding seasons they have experienced have resulted in considerable aberrant behavior and played up many a demented personality. Billy Martin is probably the best known and most notorious of managers in our time. He has been through the revolving door many times, not because of any lack of success, but rather because his personality isn’t compatible with nearly anyone’s. As a strategist, though, he is among the best. But sometimes his actions are questionable. 

For instance, he once ordered one of his pitchers who was replacing another in the early innings of a game the Tigers were trailing, to keep warming up on the mound and not signal to the umpire that he was ready. Martin had detected rain clouds on the horizon and considered it best not to continue to play, and let the game be rained out. Unfortunately for Billy, after nearly two hours it seemed the clouds had passed; he gave up and had his pitcher inform the umpire he was ready to go. Once, in another clearly erratic move, Martin, upon seeing that the umpires wouldn’t do anything to prevent Gaylord Perry from throwing what Martin thought were spitballs to his players, ordered his own Joe Coleman to throw spitters to Cleveland. Coleman, not having any idea how to throw them, was very wild trying. The game became quite farcical and Martin was fined heavily. Martin is, of course, also known for his combative nature. While with Texas he once sent out his whole squad wielding baseball bats to protect his right fielder from some unruly fans. Needless to say, mayhem followed.

Perhaps no manager can match Martin’s feisty manner, but Frank Robinson, formerly of Cleveland, comes pretty close. Robinson didn’t confine his actions to fighting opponents either. He once battled his own Rico Carty in the Indian dugout in the middle of a game. Also, in an exhibition game with Cleveland’s AAA club, he punched out pitchers who apparently had been too aggressive in tagging Frank out at third. That pitcher was never brought up to the majors.

On the other end of the spectrum is the Dodger’s Walter Alston. He never changed expression in the dugout, and he sometimes appeared asleep. In fact, it was said Casey Stengel often did fall asleep in the Mets’ dugout as his team would be suffering through yet another drubbing at the hands of a far superior opponent. Alvin Dark, while with Oakland, was also known as a rather passive sort. After dedicating his life to Jesus, he felt it un-Christian to give any criticism to his players. This got so extreme that even Reggie Jackson was heard to complain about it. Dark was also a master tactician, often placing Sam McDowell (while with Cleveland) on second base so he could keep him in the game to face a left-handed hitter later. In Oakland, he was also prone to juggling with the second base position. He often used as many as four second basemen in a game.

Notwithstanding their strategic prowess, managers are perhaps better known for being somewhat deficient intellectually. Many baseball fans would probably cite Ralph Houk as a prime example. Once, upon being confronted with the idea that baseball managers weren’t considered too intelligent, Houk countered by saying, “We might not do well on a knowledge test, but we’d do pretty good on a test on baseball.” Profound!

Don Zimmer of Boston hasn’t always been considered among the brightest in his baseball days either. He has an excuse, though. He has enough steel plates in his head (placed there after getting plunked by fastballs in his head during his playing days) to prevent him from getting past airport metal detectors. Intelligence doesn’t seem to affect performance, however. Zimmer and Houk have both had success. Also, Earl Weaver and Sparky Anderson have had tremendous success as managers; but to my knowledge, neither has been awarded any honorary degrees.

Perhaps the most universal characteristic managers have is that they’re hated. Eddie Stanky, for example, formerly of the White Sox, was hated everywhere. Boston fans used to boo whenever he’d show his face in town. Most managers are even well-hated in their hometown, where they are usually greeted with cascades of boos. Some don’t care (after all, nice guys finish last). But most go through the agony of public scrutiny and eventual firing many times in their careers. It is pretty much true that the same old crop of managers returns year after year, often with a new team, always a little bit crazier with one more long season and sometimes another firing under their belt. As a result, this year one can again count on the fact that insanity will emanate from major league dugouts nationwide.