Paintings Exhibit Emotions, Experiences
(Brad Kerr) Russ Warren

By GIN EVANS
Staff Writer

It’s difficult to walk past Chambers Gallery these days without slowing down and peering through the doors. Colorful paintings overwhelm
you. The paintings are part of the collection of Davidson’s art professor, Russ Warren. His exhibit opened April 3 and
continues until April 23.

Artist Russ Warren paints his imagination. The reds, yellows, turquoises, oranges, greens, and blues pull you like magnets towards his
paintings, with curiosity and wonder. Their brightness makes them come alive. The winding shapes, dotted expressions, many-pointed stars, and animal
images work together to represent some personal experiences and emotions of the artist.

Whether it be an emotion, an experience, or a place, every artist incorporates something about himself in his artwork. Warren
begins all his paintings with something personal or autobiographical in mind. Through the painting process, the visual interpretation of the
idea may change, but the idea itself stays the same. Painting is a form of self-discovery. Russ Warren’s paintings clearly
reveal this. The skulls, the mountains, the cacti, and the dogs represent a time and mood in his life that
he has chosen to recreate and share.

Warren grew up in Houston, Texas among musicians and art museums. “I always wanted to be a musician,” Warren says,
“so I started taking trumpet lessons when I was six years old, and then later learned to play the bass
and piano. When I wasn't playing an instrument I loved to draw and visit art museums.” He found by the
age of 18 or 19 that he no longer was interested in pursuing music as a career. He wanted something
he could do alone, and this wasn't possible with music. Art offered this release. “I wanted to have total control,”
Warren adds.

He entered the University of St. Thomas in Houston, as an art major, and then transferred to the University of
New Mexico, where he developed his techniques and skills in printmaking and painting from the vast exposure to great artists.
“The only way to grow as an artist,” Warren explains, “is to set up your own studio away from academics.”
His studio was a nice retreat from the academic atmosphere. “As I painted more, the exposure to printmaking at school
made a nice complement to my painting.”

While in New Mexico, Warren became attracted to and fascinated by Mexican folk art. “It has a quality which is
both fierce and funny,” Warren comments. He began to incorporate in his paintings colors and images that characterize much of
Mexican folk art. A funny, primitive, dog-like sculpture intrigued him most. “Once a friend of mine told me I needed
to use dogs in my paintings,” Warren says, “so, he presented to my wife, daughter, and me a gift which
was a puppy. It was too young to even recognize the breed.” That was six years ago. The dog, a
golden retriever, grew up as a second child for Warren and as a new brother to his daughter. He named
the dog, Zeke, and began to use him in his paintings, making the style a combination of the dog-like Mexican
folk art sculpture and the style of one of his favorite artists, Picasso. “An artist critiqued my work once, describing
Zeke as my alter-ego. I usually don’t agree with critics, but the more I thought about this the more truth
I saw in it. Zeke became a part of my alter-ego,” Mr. Warren says.

The dog traveled everywhere with Warren, to Texas, Florida, and to Davidson, N.C., as his paintings reveal. Zeke died in
January 1979 and with his death came a change in Warren’s paintings. A saddened mood and images of death began
to haunt the canvas. In the painting, “Zeke in Florida,” finished before Zeke’s death, Warren paints with bright, summery colors
of orange, ocean blue, sandy yellow, and green. Zeke's cream-colored body, encircled by what appears to be the arms of
a Mexican-designed bracelet, dominates the painting. Beaches of sand, lanky palm trees, and ocean-blue colors fill the background. The bright
coloring and wavy-like character of Zeke’s body suggest his vivaciousness and spirit. Warren captures him in motion as Zeke runs
from one side of a roadway to the other.

In “Memories of Fort Stockton,” finished after Zeke’s death, Warren's mood and emotion change. No longer is there a high-spirited,
happy feeling expressed. A mysterious, eerie, almost frightful feeling prevails. The colors have changed to shades of purple, deep, blood
red, and shades of blue-greens. Zeke stands motionless by the shadowing light of a campfire. A deep red surrounds the
fire and the area where Zeke stands, creating a powerful contrast.

Y Fund Drive to Begin Saturday; Frisbee Golf Kicks Off Afternoon
By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor
and KAREN HESTER
Staff Correspondent

The Y Fund Drive begins Saturday, April 21, with Y-Fun Day, involving a variety of activities. The second annual frisbee-golf
tournament will...Start off the afternoon. David Huie, who is in charge of the tournament, will also be selling cokes all
day at the track meet and during the tournament. A variety of games such as badminton, volleyball, and horseshoes will
be held before the barbeque. The barbeque begins at 6:30 p.m. in front of Chambers. The dinner will be $2.00
and includes chicken, potato salad, cookies, and iced tea. If it rains, the dinner will be held in the gallery.
Tickets for the event can be purchased from Y members or in front of Phi Hall Friday from 10:00 a.m.
to the afternoon. The Ice Cream Social will be held on the Village Green from 2:00 until 4:00 p.m. Faculty
will be serving, and the price is $0.15 a scoop.

The actual fund drive is scheduled for Monday, April 23, through Friday, April 27. “We’re changing our style for the
fund drive this year,” said L.C. Brewster, president of the Y Student Service Corps. “Instead of a door-to-door campaign, we're
issuing a challenge between faculty and the students to see who can raise the most change.” Containers will be placed
in the Union, Chambers, and the Library for collecting the money. Tables will also be set up from 10-11 a.m.,
so that administration, faculty, and students can contribute. The Y Student Service Corps depends entirely on contributions. The fund drive
has been moved from the fall to the spring because, Treasurer Elizabeth Medlin explains, “The money we raise this spring
will be the total budget for next year.”

Riding the Big Chief, Acrylic 79 with the shade of blue-green that designates the campsite. Two vicious skulls penetrate Zeke
with their empty sockets. Warren enjoys working with images. As well as the one of Zeke, he incorporates other images
into his paintings. In “Rain Prayer,” a comical, dotted figure extends its arms to the sky. Its seven-fingered, imaginary figure
is set apart from the mountains and sky by the many dots that wind around to fill its body. The
maroon, brown, and gold mountains look heavy and massive, contrasting with the light and airy, almost spiritual being that kneels
and prays to the sky for rain.

In “Mad Sasha Running,” dotted areas of pink, green, blue, and yellow fill the canvas. Bending palm trees and distorted
cactus shapes interrupt the dotted background as they extend and point to the inside from each side of the painting.
A running dog, surrounded by these images, heightens the intensity and action of the painting by the fiery red, yellow,
and black zig-zag lines outlining his body. Warren comments, “I always have an idea before I start to paint, but
I don't know what colors I'll use beforehand. Painting for me is almost like a kind of religious experience.”

WDAV expands programming, staff
By ROBERT PAYNE
Staff Writer

In a flurry of activity over the past 2 weeks, WDAV has expanded its programming, hired a full-time chief announcer,
and possibly corrected its signal interference with TRANSCO. The program expansion consists of three hours of non-classical programming added from
10-1 each night. Fitting under the label of “non-classical” are jazz, rock, and folk shows as well as “contemporary classical.”
Each night’s line-up breaks down to a specialty show (focusing on a particular contemporary genre) from 10-11, followed by “Flipsides,”
free-form alternative jazz and rock, from 11-1. The shows are done on a voluntary basis by students—the exceptions are “The
Ear of the Beholder” done by WDAV Director Ed McIntyre and a jazz show by Phil Cunieff, a WRPL deejay.
McIntyre says the programs were added “first of all for the listeners, as well as for the staff who had
interest in programming.” Freshman Michael Kehs, who produces “Jazz Archive,” sees WDAV as “now fulfilling part of one role as
an alternative station, as well as a fine arts station.” On the whole, McIntyre is “satisfied” with the new programming,
“but we can all do better—both classical and non-classical. It is a matter of what we can achieve with the
record companies and man-hours.” In the coming year, McIntyre hopes both to expand the records and the staff. As part
of that expansion, he has hired a full-time chief announcer—Regina Scruggs, a music major from Beloit College. She has had
experience in college radio both at Beloit and at Northwestern where she did her graduate work. As for other full-time
employees, McIntyre would like to “eventually have four full-time employees” with the idea of moving to National Public Radio status,
“But that depends on the budget,” according to McIntyre.

WDAV may have avoided an immediate “major capital outlay” on a new tower by shielding TRANSCO’s microwave equipment. WDAV’s signal
had been interfering with TRANSCO’s gas pipeline microwave relay system, prompting engineer Frank Hall to ask WDAV to lower power
to 50 percent, producing a situation that McIntyre called “barely tolerable.” WDAV engineer Fred M. had shielding installed around TRANSCO's
equipment. Hall raised WDAV's power back up to 100 percent and is optimistic about the results.
