(Brad Kerr) October 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—3

Administrators defend athletic budget
Feel present expenditures are appropriate on “a very sports-minded campus”

By JOHN SIMAN
Assistant News Editor

The intensity of recent criticism of athletic policy brings three issues to focus: How extensive is our commitment to excellence
in athletics? Why do we have such a commitment? Why should we maintain it?

Davidson competes at the NCAA Division I level in all sports except for football and women’s sports, according to Athletic
Director Thomas Cartmill. Thus, a college of 1300 students is often pitted against large universities like North Carolina State, Notre
Dame, and Duke. Vice-President of Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said, “I don’t know of another school of our type that’s
trying to do what we’re doing.” The Board of Trustees has reaffirmed its goals of moving the basketball team toward
a national top 20 ranking and keeping the football team competitive in Division 1-AA. “For our size it’s an ambitious
program,” Cartmill said. Religion Professor David Kaylor calls it “impossible.”

The athletic budget is expensive: net 1978-79 expenditures totaled $803,884. At the University of the South, a Division III school
with about 1000 undergraduates, the 1979-80 athletic budget totals $368,730, according to Sewanee Athletic Director Walter Bryant. Data from an
SGA Budget Committee Study also shows that Davidson spends significantly more on sports than comparable—and often larger—schools.

To supplement financing of the athletic program, the Trustees in 1973 increased the Wildcat Club’s role in fund-raising. According to
Executive Director Sandy Carnegie, the Wildcat Club primarily raises money for football scholarships. In 1978-79, $107,518 of Wildcat Club funds
were budgeted for football, and an additional $47,340 were distributed throughout the athletics program, the greatest part going to basketball,
Carnegie said. Bryant said that Wildcat Club contributions are the reason the University of the South does not play Davidson.
He explained that at Sewanee all alumni contributions are given to the University itself, which then allocates money to athletics
as it sees fit. According to Carnegie, Davidson’s Wildcat Club contributions are administered through the Comptroller’s office but are used
exclusively for sports. “Our philosophy is completely different from yours,” Bryant says.

Cartmill offered justification of Davidson’s ambitious program. In a “sports-conscious” region dominated by athletic powers like Carolina and Wake Forest,
“gung-ho” fans expect Davidson “to field competitive” teams, Cartmill explained. He referred to Davidson's tradition of successfully competing against first-rate
opponents. Kaylor, however, argues against big-time college sports on principle. He described highly organized and subsidized college sports as “professional”
and argued that “professional athletics does not have a place in a college.” Kaylor emphasized the need to encourage carry-over
and lifetime sports programs for all students.

College President Samuel Spencer cited the fact that we have “a very sports-minded campus” as a reason for Davidson's extensive
investment in athletics. Director of Intramurals Sterling Martin simply said, “We are a jock student body.” 432 students were involved
in intercollegiate athletics in 1978-79 according to Martin. Also, intramurals provided athletic opportunities for over 78 percent of the student
body last year, Martin said.

Zimmermann also feels athletics are important in attracting “the interest and loyalty of alumni” and ultimately in “recruiting money.” “The
argument that it (the athletic program) keeps the alumni supportive of the institution is true,” Kaylor said. However, Kaylor feels
the program attracts alumni support because the Administration has relied on athletics to publicize the school to alumni. In so
doing,Kaylor said the Administration has "cheapened the school and alumni." He argued that the alumni are not a "rah-rah group"
who give primarily because of the athletic program. Kaylor said that if alumni were given a "full picture" of the
cost and disadvantages of the program, they might be less supportive of it. Both Zimmermann and Cartmill agreed that change
in the program, especially in football, would be difficult. Cartmill stated, "There is a great fallacy that we’d save money
going Division III (in football)." Zimmerman said constant expenses such as equipment and coaching staff would prevent savings anticipated by
playing at a less competitive level. Zimmermann and Cartmill also predicted that a move to Division III would cause a
loss of Wildcat Club, thereby offsetting any advantages of offering less football scholarship money. Kaylor disagreed that Wildcat Club support
would "dry up" if the football program were moved to Division III and cited the possibility of more alumni contributions
going to basketball in such a case. Also, Kaylor contested Zimmermann’s and Cartmill’s view that a Division III football program
would allow the College to save money. "Schools are doing it all over," Kaylor said. Davidson spent $94,555.49 on football
in 1978-79, excluding staff compensation and scholarships. The University of the South has about $48,000 budgeted for football in 1979-80,
according to Bryant. A major problem in athletics is the difficulty of finding competition, according to Cartmill and Zimmermann. In
the case of football, Cartmill says that a move to Division II is unfeasible, because "there’s no way we could
find competition." Zimmermann and Cartmill said travel expenses would be high if we played in Division III because many opponents
would be "very distant." "If we were in New England we could play schools like Amherst, Williams, Wesleyan, and Bowdoin,"
Zimmermann said, but there are not many small liberal arts colleges near Davidson. Kaylor noted that the football schedule already
includes Division III teams Southwestern, Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon, and Washington and Lee. He added that schools like Centre in Kentucky and
the University of the South in Tennessee are not more distant than present opponents like Lehigh and Bucknell in Pennsylvania.
Zimmermann said that the "current athletic program is operating in accordance with the specifications of the Trustees. In essence, no
significant changes can be made without Trustee initiative. We cannot change our job as long as we work for the
Trustees and Administration," Cartmill said. Kaylor said he is "sympathetic" with the Athletic Department, for he feels that "The Trustees
have given them an impossible task." "It would be a miracle if they succeed (in achieving their goals of athletic
prominence)," Kaylor said, "either a miracle or a sell-out. The price of success is more than what the institution is
willing to pay." Cartmill complained about criticism directed at the athletic program. "We are given a job to do," he
said, but "Everybody and his brother is pecking away at us. People should go to the Trustees with their complaints."
Cartmill also complained about the impact of such criticism. "What’s difficult is that our players hear this every day of
the week. It’s difficult not only for playing morale and coaching morale—but how about recruiting? It’s become a morale issue
in the department." He noted that an evaluation of Davidson's athletic program will be conducted by an independent team during
winter term. The team's recommendation will in no way be binding, but, according to College President Samuel Spencer, will be
"carefully considered" by the Administration.
