— ae Lee

Ago the college press service distributed this article to college and university newspapers all across the country. It contains a
major error which makes it sound as if Davidson is going to allow fewer women to come here next year.
This is just the opposite of what the college trustees recently decided.

Next year's quota will be set at approximately two to one, a percentage which College President Samuel R. Spencer said
is just about the same percentage that male and female applications are running now. The trustees’ decision has been interpreted
by some observers as a move toward sex-blind admissions.

At about the same time this story came out, Sports Illustrated also ran a negative story about Davidson, which depicted
Davidson’s basketball recruitment policies as ruthless. That story basically seems to have been much more accurate than the CPS story,
but it also contained several errors.

For several years, going back perhaps to the Linden affair, the school seems to have gotten a very bad press
nationally.

(CPS) -- A curious thing happens to admissions applications at Davidson College in North Carolina. When an application arrives from
a male who was in the top ten percent of his high school senior class, there's a good chance it
will be accepted. But when it comes from a female, also in the top ten percent of her class, there’s
a much greater chance that it will be rejected.

The phenomenon isn’t an arbitrary decision by the admissions committee. Instead, it is part of the small private school’s admission
policy. Last fall’s code mandated an enrollment of 250 males and 110 females, or a 54:44 ratio. And last week
Davidson’s trustees amended the rule to admit even fewer females, at a 65:35 ratio. They also approved a measure that
would allow administrators

— March 23, 1979

Press: sex ratio story all confused

Why the inclination? The reasons, Tony Boon of the admissions office hastens to explain, have nothing to do with sexism.
Asked for more specifics, he added, “Well, there’s a whole lot of different reasons” why the school is reluctant to
consider all applications equally.

The most telling is "something as simple as tradition." Davidson was an all-male school for 136 years before it decided
to admit women in 1973. That decision, moreover, was prompted by “the feeling that a single-sex institution is less appealing”
than a co-ed one, and by an anticipated decrease in the number of potential students.

Admitting women, which Boon feels has “been really good for the school,” wasn’t welcomed by all college groups. Specifically, the
alumni seemed particularly disgruntled. Some felt, according to Boon, “there needed to be open to men a special kind of
education.” The fact that alumni are generous to the school probably had something to do with the 1976 decision to
limit the admission of women.

A major fear of that time was that women would choose courses that weren’t within Davidson’s curricular specialty - pre-professional
training. As a result, the school would have faced significant extra costs to hire more professors and expand existing facilities.
But the problem, Boon says, never materialized. “By and large, the women enroll in the same things men do, and
do just as well.”

Whatever the reasons for the sexual quotas, though, not all of Davidson’s 1300-some students are pleased. Six months ago, senior
Martha Sanford brought a petition signed by over a quarter of the student body to administrators. The petition asked that
the quotas be dropped. No action was taken, according to The Davidsonian, the student paper.

In February, the campus National Organization for Women chapter again approached administrators, again asking for equal-access admissions. The group compiled
statistics showing that, of equally-qualified applicants, 70 percent of the males were accepted, but only 58 percent of the women
were accepted.

During the last weekend of February, though, the trustees reaffirmed the quotas. Boon was not too hopeful that they’d be
dropped later, either. “We're a traditional school in the south,” he sighs. “The thinking is a little more conservative.”

PARK’S REXALL DRUGS

@ complete prescription service
@ contact lens supplies
@ cosmetics
@ Russell Stover candies
@ Sewing notions
@ magazines
@ toiletries

and if we don’t have it we’ll be happy to order it for you

Open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekly
9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Sundays

phone: 892-0208

When you're fighting foes like inflation and high prices it's really nice to have BanClub's super services on your side.
BanClub provides you with unlimited check writing with no minimum balance, all the personalized checks you need, travelers and cashiers
checks with no issue charge, $10,000 accidental death insurance coverage with 24-hour on and off the job protection... plus nationwide
check cashing privileges at 4,500 bank locations, and attractions from Florida to California... all areas off.

BANCLUB SAVES YOU MONEY
