10—The Davidsonian—April 13, 1979

SENIOR JOHNNY STROUD CARRIES BATON IN RECENT RELAYS.

(John Highsmith)

VPI takes first in Relays; Davidson places 18th of 40

By ROB GILLISON
Assistant Sports Editor

Virginia Tech, in their first appearance ever in the Davidson Relays, won seven of 21 events to take first place
with a total of 110 points. Appalachian took second with 93 points, and Duke, Cumberland, and Frostburg all tied for
third; each had 48 points.

Davidson finished eighteenth out of the nearly 40 teams but could manage only 6 points. Willie Lanier and Lance Sisco
placed highest among Davidson’s male athletes. Lanier took fourth in the shot put, and Sisco placed sixth in the 110
meter high hurdles.

Track team captain Karl McPhail felt that Davidson might have been able to perform better in the sprints and relays
had the football players who make up the majority of the runners in these events been excused from spring football
practice to practice their events.

Football coach Ed Farrell responded, “Davidson College has placed its priority on football over track. If the football team is
to have a chance at a national championship then spring practice is essential.” Farrell also added, “I feel I’m already
bending over backwards allowing Lance Sisco, who takes his participation in track more seriously, to miss Friday practices so he
can rest or practice his hurdles. I’ve also been careful not to schedule any Saturday practices so there will be
no conflict with the track meets.”

Track coach Karl Kremser was pleased with the performance of his team. Most athletes turned in their best times or
distances.

Among the fourteen girls’ teams that participated in the Davidson Relays, Frostburg dominated the meet by winning nine of 12
events, and racking up a total of 142 points. West Virginia was a distant second with 75 points.

The Davidson women managed 28 points for a fourth place tie. Elizabeth Dean and Sarah Todd were able to do
what no other Davidson athletes could achieve; they placed in the top three of an event. Dean won the 3000
meter race, and Todd came in second in the same event.

Spring grid game held this Friday

The Davidson College football Wildcats will end spring practice with a Red-Black scrimmage game on Friday at Richardson Field.

The game will primarily be a “show-off” session after a month of practicing. Kickoff is at 3 p.m.

South Main Street Davidson, N.C.

THE VILLAGE STORE & THE COPELAND HOUSE GALLERY

for

EASTER
