2—The Davidsonian—May 11, 1979

News at a Glance

Violations
According to Dean of Students Will Terry, nine students were dismissed this academic year for Honor Code violations; there were
five Code of Responsibility violations, one resulting in suspension and four in lesser penalties.

Loan Defaults
College President Sam Spencer received a letter from an Atlanta HEW office commending Davidson for its low default rate in
the National Direct Student Loan Program. The letter said Davidson's default rate on such loans is about 9 percent, well
below the national average.

Art Awards
The Student Art Exhibit, which is currently being shown in the Art Gallery, has three winners. First prize went to
senior John Evans for his welded Rhinoceros. Gary Hazlett took second prize for a painting filled with bizarre action. Third
prize was awarded to Paul Schulz for his painting of autumn leaves.

July Experience Counselors
Recently selected are the counselors for Davidson’s July Experience Program held July 8 to August 3 for high school students.
The counselors were chosen based on three criteria: their capability as Hall Counselors in relating to high school students, their
academic background since they will be helping with labs and other classes, and their extracurricular activities. The counselors named are
Debbie Dillon ’78, Cissy Fulenwider ’79, Mike Heinig ’80, Bunny Horine ’80, Nancy Macconnachie '79, Andy Miller ’80, Julia Pidgeon
’81, and Steve Woodard ’80.

SAE Officers
The Sigma Alpha Epsilon House recently elected officers for the 79-80 school year. Al Rhyne and Randy Dulin were voted
president and vice-president. Jeff Ray is the new treasurer. Social chairmen are John Thompson and Bart Landess. Alex Evans was
elected house manager, and Blaine Sanders was chosen as secretary. Gus Robinson was voted the new librarian, and Bill Peoples
is the correspondent.

College Bowl team tromps 11 of 12 opponents in Atlanta invitational
By EMMA CRICHTON MILLER
Staff Writer

Eleven of twelve college bowl teams fell to the Davidson team last weekend in an invitational tournament in Atlanta. The
team’s chances: “We did lose to Emory, but we have beaten all of the other teams. It could be quite
tough, but we shall hopefully get through to the second or third round. And there’s always a chance we could
win the whole thing, who knows?” Lloyd said. The team has been working hard and should do well, but their
present regime is one of “light practice, studying for final exams and writing term papers.”

Construction of local shopping center to begin soon
By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Writer

Construction of a small shopping center in Davidson will begin within two or three weeks, according to Louis Fein, Director
of Development for Shamrock Realty, a Charlotte firm. The shopping center will be located off Griffith Street between Railroad Street
and Watson Street, where there is now a baseball field. A November completion date is projected, said Fein. Lowe’s Supermarket
and Cornwell’s Drugstore, whose president is Davidson alumnus Jerry Norvell '58, already have leases in the shopping center. Fein said
that other occupants will include several specialty stores—possibly with a hardware store and a clothing store among them. Fein mentioned
a “sit-down restaurant, nothing like a fast food place” and a small savings and loan as other possible occupants. According
to William Potts,Building Inspector for the town of Davidson, the Davidson community is willing to accept the shopping center. "Most
people here have wanted one," he said, adding that the issue of allowing construction was not controversial. Potts described the
construction as "part of the growth predicted ever since the lake (area around Lake Norman) was developed," beginning about ten
years ago. He called the construction of the shopping center "a natural hand-in-hand development with the development of the lake
shore."

Potts also cited the construction of a Harris-Teeter Supermarket and the expansion of Cashion’s Food Store, both in Cornelius, as
other examples of area growth in the past decade. When asked about area growth in the future, he mentioned the
possibility that a shopping center might be built near the intersection of I-77 and Highway 73 outside Cornelius and that
there might be development of land zoned for industrial use just north of the Mecklenburg-Iredell county lines, just outside of
Davidson.

The Lowe’s to be built in Davidson will compete with both of the Cornelius supermarkets. Similarly, the new Cornwell’s Drugstore
will compete with Park’s Rexall Drugs on Main Street. Fein suggested that the new drugstore could be a major threat
to Park’s business, but owner W.A. Parks maintained, "There will always be one (Rexall Drugs) here." Fein pointed out that
"We (Shamrock Realty) don’t normally get involved in the construction of shopping centers." He explained that Shamrock Realty—of which the
builder of the shopping center, Four Seasons Development Company, is a subsidiary—is primarily concerned with real estate and can build
in Davidson because of the small scale of the planned shopping center.

Rules for exams

The following rules have been approved for the self-scheduled exam procedure by the Student Senate, the Registrar, the Dean of
Students, the Vice President for Academic Affairs, and the Student Conduct Council:

1. Students are not to bring books into Chambers unless using them in rooms 309 and 310. During exam hours,
books will not be left lying around in Chambers anywhere.
2. Open book exams will be taken in Chambers Room 309 (smoking) and Room 310 (non-smoking).
3. Calculators may be used only in Room 307 and Room 308. Each student must use his own calculator.
4. Students will not leave the building once they have begun their exams.
5. Students will be required to indicate on the card attached to the exam envelope the room and the exam
period.
6. All exams will be taken in classrooms—not in halls, on steps, bathrooms, etc.
7. Students are reminded that they are honor bound to report any suspected violations.
8. Students are reminded they are not to discuss exams in any way.
9. Students whose exams are late (after 12:15 pm and 5:15 pm) will have their exams so marked.

Violations of any of these rules are considered Honor Code violations.

During heated headball action, the Fijis signal time out to take a team dive.

Footwear, Anyone? Tassels, Saddles, and Hiking Boots and Casuals by DUNHAM. Jack Purcell Sneakers by CONVERSE. Store Hours: 9 am
to 5:30 pm Mon. thru Sat. Closed Tues. afternoons.
