CLOCKWORK

Difficulties didn’t deter

By JIM VITHA
Staff Writer

The spring frolics’ concert, sponsored by the Concert Committee, took place last Friday afternoon, April 6, and while there were
some difficulties related to the concert, the audience had a very enjoyable afternoon. The beer started flowing around two p.m.,
with the actual concert beginning at three with a group called Clockwork. Clockwork, who was contracted to do the show
on that very morning, put on an admirable show displaying their talents for playing rock and roll. Their show included
songs written by Billy Joel, Foreigner, Toto, and also some original work.

The second act of the show was an acoustical guitar set played by Joe Smothers and Jack Lawrence. They played
for approximately thirty-five minutes and pleased audience members whose tastes ran more to folk and blues music, rather than straight
rock and roll. The last act of the show was a Mooresville-based group called Proff and although they had a
late start, beginning around five-twenty, they played thirty-five minutes of very enjoyable music. Their sound ranged from a wide spread
of rock and roll to some funkier sounding material. Proff is a band that has a wide range of material
and is adept at playing any of it.

There were some problems with the concert, however. The main question was what happened to the Amazing Rhythm Aces? Evidently,
Al Rak, chairman of the concert committee, informed the band’s agent on Monday, April 2, that the concert committee was
contracted to use the Alpha Sound Company to provide sound equipment for the concert. When the band found out about
this on Thursday, April 5, they decided that Alpha Sound did not have all the equipment they wanted so they
cancelled the show. It is expressly written in the contract that the Amazing Rhythm Aces have to O.K. the sound
company. Although Rak worked extremely hard at negotiating a compromise, none was reached, and when the Amazing Rhythm Aces cancelled
on Thursday night, he was forced to find another band. On Friday morning the group Clockwork was contracted to be
the replacement band and the concert proceeded as planned.

There was one final difficulty and that was the wind, which wreaked havoc with the speakers that were set up,
so a new arrangement had to take place. This caused the one-hour delay that occurred. However, once the concert began
at three, it ran very smoothly, creating an atmosphere that the audience really enjoyed. The music was good, as was
the weather and the beer. Al Rak, the concert committee, Alpha Sound Co. and the three bands worked very hard
all afternoon providing a good way to start the Spring Frolics weekend.

(continued from page 7)

But not for long. “It took my wife and I until the end of April to decide. We still don’t
remember who said ‘Why not?’ And the other one said ‘Okay.’ We didn’t even need to identify the subject. Since
that time Gill has performed over 60 roles in the most respected opera houses in America. He has performed abroad,
broadcast on national public radio and sung for 100,000 people in a Central Park concert.

When asked if he enjoys performing, Gill replied “Enjoy is not exactly what I do. Sometimes I’m thrilled. Sometimes I’m
depressed. I’m always nervous, always excited. The thing that keeps me going, the thing that probably makes me feel younger
than I did ten years ago, is the sense that I'm just starting something from scratch and having the experience
of exploring an entirely new universe of activity. That’s very exciting. Sometimes I think I may have to take up
something else. I could go back to fiction writing. Sometimes I alarm my wife by saying my great love when
I was a boy was painting. I could be some sort of Grandpa Moses.”

“One of my weaknesses is that I’ve always felt most complete when I’m doing several things at once. In college
I was a member of the glee club and the boxing team and I was in politics. I always took
math as well as literature. I just always wanted to do different things simultaneously. I still feel a day isn’t
complete if I haven't done some brainy seconds thinking as well as perhaps some writing and some singing or music.”

Notes on Students

Spring for the senior starts in September when he’s crouched before his mangled typewriter with a stack of graduate school
applications before him. He writes of his achievements, awards, and honors and thinks, “I still have half a page left
and I was only allotted half a page to start with.” Then he goes to the registrar and hands over
his entire savings for transcripts. He says to the woman behind the counter, “I'll get a loan if you’ll lie.”
She replies, “No sir, a dollar will do.” So the dejected senior ascends flights of stairs in Chambers, thinking, “I
know I can change the world and be a person if Harvard will only let me in. But when the
computer is fed with my 2.5 and my GRE scores... well,”"Why am I paying thirty dollars to be insulted?” Up
on the second floor, perhaps third, depending on where your faculty friends are, the senior raps on one door after
another and hands out blank letter of recommendation forms with diffidence and, “I know you're terribly busy, sir, I mean
Dr., but will you please tell them that I’m brilliant and talented and assiduous and...” “Yes, I will,” comes the
reply, “just as soon as you hand in the paper that was due three weeks ago. And besides, why do
you want to go to graduate school?” Now that’s a good question. “WHY?”

The senior, poor fellow, stands on the edge of an abyss. He cannot look behind him because he knows he
is expected to move onward. He cannot move onward because he learned in Astronomy that gravity pulls mass downwards. This
also explains why he cannot move upward. So he squeezes his eyes shut and says, “How ‘bout a stalemate? Let’s
try some lateral movement to the South.” And thus, Duke is paid thirty dollars. Then there is always the North
East. “Dear Director of Admissions, I go to Davidson. Yes, it too is Ivy League,” (you enclose a photo of
Eumean Hall and the brick wall beside Peregrine House). Harvard, Yale, and Princeton... ninety more dollars. “Dear Mom, I’m poor
and could you please send me two hundred dollars. No, not for beer, for manila envelopes and stamps.”

“WHY?” Seniors calculate that if they can stay in school for five more years then they'll figure out what they
want to do in life, what they don’t want to do, and if they want to do anything. But the
conflict is that seniors hate school. They are nauseated with the thought of the Dewey Decimal System and drop-add. They
want to earn money so they can afford creature comforts (egg salad sandwiches at the M&M are no longer enough).
“And Mom, can you spare ten more dollars because my frisbee got hung in a pile of coat hangers on
the roof of the laundry and the coke machine in the gym took the rest." Mom writes back, “Dear offspring,
why don’t you apply for a few fellowships so that the financial strain will not be so rough on your
father and me?” There are the Rhodes and the Danforth and the Marshall and the Watson. Have you ever been
interrogated by twelve former Rhodes scholars? No? Let me tell you what it’s like. They ask questions such as, “Why
do you feel it is expedient for you to study at Oxford?” And the aspiring senior, in an effort to
be candid, says, “Because.” So Dr., Dr., Dr., Kwill (triple Ph.D., now with the Pentagon) replies, “Ah, quite so? You
most certainly must have a better reason than that.” So the over-reacher retorts (with an honest sigh), “Yes, you’re bloody
right. Oxford is in England. And all Americans think you're brilliant and clever if you speak with a British accent
and since it rains so much there, I couldn’t toss the frisbee or play flicker ball. So I would have
nothing to do but study, and, not to mention the fact that Oxford doesn’t ask for GRE scores.”

And it’s on to the Danforth. It’s a grand fellowship. But it does present a problem if you have members
of the Rhodes committee who are also on the Danforth committee. On the one hand, you've sworn that you want
and must study in England because American Universities are not enough and because you wish to pursue international law. Then
you swear to Dr., Dr., Dr., Kwill (now on the Danforth committee) that, “Gee, I really want to teach and
I firmly believe in my heart that Yale is the place for me.” The Marshall people send you a letter
in January, saying, “Quite sorry, ‘ole chap, but we have six million, three hundred thousand and eleven applications. We cannot,
therefore, grant you an interview. Good luck in life. We're not rejecting you, of course. Even if we've never met
you, we think you are splendid.” And the Watson people say, “True, a study in Poland on the life-span of
coral snakes in Warsaw is intriguing. But. There are no coral snakes in Warsaw. So sorry.”

Spring arrives. The springtime senior stretches out on the football field while javelins arch over him and pole-vaulters taunt him
with the heights they reach. He dreams of fame and fortune and love and life. Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and Duke
have written, “You would have a future with us, dear sir, if only you had no past." Oxford is mute
because the mail service is on strike in Paris (which makes no sense unless you are prone to rationalization). When
the ambitious senior finally hears word from that great institution he learns, “The colleges are most crowded presently. Thank you
for your interest in Oxford. We would have replied sooner but a don spilt his tea on your essay and
it had to be sent on to the Bodleian for restoration.” The senior contemplates McDonald's, a job as janitor at
Reeves, death, and no more funds from home. He sells his book to an unsuspecting junior and says, “Have a
good and noble whe ye Ne rene ope aig @ITIVES, write poetry and bask in the sun. If, I mean
when, you graduate, conquer the world out there and give me back my frisbee.”

~PATSY DANIELS
