Band and After Magritte. Tom Besellieu and Steve Cline discuss upcoming Drama Workshop productions.

Speckled (Gregg Strader)

Drama Workshop to present two thrilling supersleuths

By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

This week Drama Workshop II will be presenting two more plays, "Speckled Band" and "After Magritte." Both will be directed
by students. Steve Cline is directing "Speckled Band," an adaptation by Michael and Mollie Hardwick of the original Sherlock Holmes
story written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.

"I'm trying to recreate the mood of London in 1890," said Steve. "I want to keep the play as authentic
as possible within the limits of the workshop theater." The cast includes Eddie Pollock as Sherlock Holmes, Eugene Heath as
Dr. Watson, Anna Dearmond as Helen Stoner, Liz Holmes as Mrs. Hudson, and Mike Munger as Dr. Roylott. The play
is a classic because Sherlock Holmes is the original supersleuth. Come and try to solve the mystery before he does!

The director of "After Magritte," a comedy parodying the detective stories, is Tom Stoppard, also author of "The Real Inspector
Hound." In the theatrical production, Tom will try to present the same ideas that Magritte presents in his paintings. The
actors will be dressed like the characters in Magritte’s paintings. One scene in the play will be very similar to
"The Threatened Assassin."

"Informing the audience of Magritte’s work" will be Tom’s "greatest challenge... I hope to make the play operate on two
levels; one is good comedy, the other is surrealism." "The play has a lot of bizarre action," said Tom, "yet
there is a logical reason for every bit of it." The cast members are Janet Ward Black and Pete Collins
as husband and wife; Sheri Gravett as the mother, Lana Sims as Chief Inspector Foot, and Dean Eckland as Constable.
During the intermission before the second play, there will be a mini-exhibit of Magritte’s work. Tom suggests that the audience
look for similarities between the paintings and the play.

Both plays will be presented on Thursday and Friday nights at 7:00 pm in the drama workshop in Hodson Hall.
Admission will be $1.00.

Selection of 1979-80 hall counselors "extremely difficult and complex"

By JIM GARRETT
Staff Writer

Next Monday the 1979-80 hall counselors and alternates will be named, according to incoming Freshman Advisor John Willingham. What’s so
great about being a hall counselor? "It is the greatest service one college student can provide for another," mused Dean
of Students Will Terry.

More than 70 rising juniors seem to agree wholeheartedly as they presently vie for 24 male positions and 10 female
positions. The 34 rising juniors as well as the four alternates are selected each year by a committee of ten
persons, including Will Terry, Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, Director of Student Housing Scotty Nichols, and seven students. Training?
They assemble regularly during Spring Term to prepare for the advisory role that awaits them. Their preparation is focused on
getting oriented to the many varied issues, conflicts, and problems which both freshmen and hall counselors will inevitably face. Culminating
in a retreat near the end of Spring Term, the orientation process stresses listening skills, the Honor System, and familiarity
with Davidson in general.

"Prestigious by nature," the selection of the 34 hall counselors is "extremely difficult and complex," comments Will Terry. He said
there are four basic criteria. First, the aspiring counselor must be a good academic model. Second, he/she must be somewhat
involved in campus life. Third, he/she must be able to stimulate activity and camaraderie among the freshmen, and fourth, according
to Terry, he/she must be able to "interpret Davidson with enthusiasm."

Each candidate is interviewed twice by different members of the selection committee. They seek applicants who communicate and listen well,
and who strongly support and advocate the Honor System at Davidson. Moreover, the selection process entails peer and faculty advisor
recommendations, both of which are vital to the ultimate decision. Although most present freshman hall counselors agree that the diversity
of personalities...and problems is the major obstacle for them, most also agree that their preparation enables them to deal effectively
with an issue or to find help from the proper source.

Bowl Team wins

Last Saturday Davidson’s College Bowl Team beat USC, Clemson, and UNC-Charlotte by overwhelming margins. The team will compete in the
Regional Championships at the University of Tennessee in Chattanooga on February 8, 9, and 10.

Kimmel to speak

Donald Kimmel, M.D., Ph.D., of Davidson’s biology faculty is on sabbatical this year in Raleigh. This Friday, February 9, at
4:00 pm, he returns to campus as a visiting lecturer for the Biology Society. He will speak on “The Spider
as Ethicist” in Dana 204. All Biology Society members and other interested students are urged to come. Freshmen are especially
invited.

Notes on Students

Philadelphia Urban Semester

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Staff Correspondent

“So you don’t know where you're going to work, you don’t have a place to live, you don’t know what
you'll study and you’re not sure anyone will be at the airport. Goodbye Trisha.” Colonel Haynes was sending his daughter
off for a Philadelphia Urban Semester. Similar words were spoken by seven other sets of anxious parents as their kids
rushed out of the holidays and their homes.

What is this mysterious seven-syllable semester that so many travel so far for? It is an eleven-hour drive to a
dirty city and a one-hour check-in at a historic hotel. It is a frantic search for an apartment that involves
afternoons pounding the pavement until that lusciously legal-ese lease is signed.

It is Joyce Hoffman interviewing for internships and helping in an abortion clinic for an afternoon before deciding on Juvenile
Defenders. It is Trisha Haynes striding into the most luxurious office in Philly, asking for the name of the president,
and talking her way into an internship with his stock brokerage firm. It is Will Long, young lawyer, in his
three-piece suit, saying, “Sometimes I just open my mouth, and people laugh at me because of my accent.” It is
Bill Coward, another lawyer, living out “Three’s Company” at night and running in Rocky’s city every morning. It is Linda
Dusenberry being followed, escaping into a cafeteria to the protection of an aging security guard and ending up taking him
out to lunch. It is Virginia Dummit explaining life at the oldest theater in the nation: her work with the
technical director with the studied stance and the injured ballerina turned PR director that she’s always read about. It’s Kevin
Shelly in his Hemingway hat showing us a used bookstore complete with comfortable armchairs and a bar where a huge
plate of steaming mussels costs only a dollar. It’s Laura Michael, play therapist, dodging grease-paint kisses as the Mummer’s parade
passes a block away from her center-city apartment.

It’s me in my noisy boots early in the morning as I scurry to the studio, and the way the
“clomp-clomp” blends with the sounds of sirens and horns as I return home every night. It’s finding the cheap movie
theaters, the free days at the museums, and the way money flies when you're having fun. It’s a hell of
a way to get three course credits. It’s true that this is “easy” because we don’t have to study. But
we have to work—sometimes ten-hour days. (see Philadelphia, page 12)

HERE’S ONE ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITY YOU WON'T GET IN PRIVATE INDUSTRY.

If you're thinking about a technical position after graduation, think about this. How many companies can offer you a nuclear
submarine to operate? The answer is none. Equipment like this is available only in the Navy. The Navy operates over
half the nuclear reactors in America. So our training is the most comprehensive. As a commissioned Nuclear Propulsion Officer who
has successfully completed a year of nuclear training, you'll receive a $3,000 bonus. Plus a top salary and responsibility for
advanced technical equipment.

If you’re majoring in engineering, math, or the physical sciences, find out about the Nuclear Navy. Contact: Lt. Steve Burnette
at P.O. Box 18095, Charlotte 28205 or call him collect at 1-371-6254. Or call toll-free 1-800-622-7568 and ask for Officer
Programs.
