(Continued from page 1) concerned that any vote against self-scheduled exams would be seen as an expression of the faculty’s lack of faith in the Honor System.”

Professor of English Charles E. Lloyd, however, disagreed. “I think we’re demanding too much of students by offering self-scheduled exams. It robs them of their good effect. I would give them if I didn’t have this feeling that it’s too much to ask for students to keep quiet.”

Norman Koller, Professor of Sociology, expressed uneasiness over whether the present system can discourage cheating. “The key variable in understanding cheating is opportunity. The goal should be to minimize opportunities for cheating. The biggest cheating scandals have occurred in schools that have strong honor systems along with enormous academic pressures.”

Professor of History David Shi agreed with Koller. “The knowledge that if you want to cheat you can get away with it tends to push the marginal student over the brink. Psychological studies have shown that incidents of cheating are directly related to the perception that one can get away with it. I believe we must admit that it is possible to go too far in testing human nature through pressure. We aren't here to build character through temptation.”

Contrary to Shi, Brown felt the school’s role in instilling ethical values is crucial. “The Honor System has a lot to do with the Statement of Purpose and Davidson’s church affiliation. Whatever decision is made, it must be reached in light of our goal to instill a sense of ethical responsibility in students. Also, the honor system is based on perceptions of reality. If students think you’re taking away an arm or a leg of the code, there is no way to predict what effect it will have on the overall Honor System.”

Professor of Biology Cynthia Grant emphasized the importance of the Honor System in everyday life. “I would hope that students are conscious of the system in their daily lives as well as during exams. It should extend to labs, papers, reviews, and our treatment of other people.”

Terry pointed out, “We have sold the Honor System for too long on its convenience, especially in regard to self-scheduled exams. Maybe it wouldn’t hurt to be a bit idealistic about the code.”

Kelton commented, “I don’t think you can make it hard enough to cheat. Any tightening up would not appreciably cut down on cheating. Perhaps the biggest threat to the code is a reluctance of the students to turn in fellow students. Most do not cheat. But when a student sees someone else cheating, it’s too easy to rationalize that he did not see the incident clearly enough to merit suspicion.”

Kelton also observed that a major failure of the self-scheduled system lies in the fact that some professors avoid using it. Terry also noted that many faculty members “handle suspected honor violations on their own” by avoiding the measures described in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure and by failing the student.

McKelway noted that faculty qualms over cheating cause modifications in the kind of exam a professor feels he can give. “At this point, the system seems to be disrupting the educational process. An instructor must, for example, (Continued from page 1) want to impose his special academic interests on the Center, Bliss stated that he hopes to tailor the Center programs to the needs of the students. ‘I want first of all to do what the students want to do.” Bliss said that he was forced to postpone his sabbatical scheduled for this coming academic year until after his term at the (Continued from page 1) stated that he felt it will take some time to bring WDAV’s broadcasts up to their potential level. “It will take a year, at least to work it up,” he said of the station. While WDAV is presently playing classical music from 7 am to 10 pm daily, McIntyre foresees the implementation of a non-classical program from 10 pm to 1 am. “We should be able to work something in there—jazz, progressive, or folk.”Keep in mind that objective questions are probably more transmissible than subjective ones.” “I don’t Center has been completed. He also hopes to postpone a recommendation for his second prestigious Fulbright Fellowship, but is uncertain if a postponement is possible. He said that in any event, “I am definitely committed to the Center for the next three years.” Bliss has taught English at Davidson since 1963. There is room for it in our format.” However, McIntyre emphasized that the station will continue to play predominantly classical music. “I was hired by the administration to implement the wish of the Trustees, which is to broadcast classical music. I think this is where our principal audience is, and I hope to broadcast the best classical music possible,” he said. McCune succeeds Paul Sealy at WDAV.

Honor

Despite their reservations over the present method of final examination, the majority of professors interviewed felt the initiative belongs to the student body. Professor of Mathematics Richard Bernard stated, “I believe we must keep temptations to students as low as possible, yet the monitoring of responsibility to continue to uphold the Honor System is definitely a student responsibility. Proposals for change must come from among the student body.” Brown agreed that the student body must be vigilant in maintaining the Honor System. “Students have a whole lot of responsibility.”

Opening of the new Davidson medical center is expected within the next few days. Equipment is now being moved into the new facility.

(Continued from page 1)

The arguments were: (1) “Such a committee would, after all is said and done, play no decisive role in tenure evaluation” and (2) (the faculty) “would have to pay too great a price; what we would lose in collegiality would not be worth any slight improvement that might conceivably be made.” In response to Holland's first argument, Patterson said, “I think (the tenure committee's recommendations) would carry a great deal of weight.” Much of the opposition was related to Holland’s second point, however, in that the faculty was unwilling to accept the responsibility of serving on the committee. Professor of Philosophy Robert Maydole said faculty members “have no desire to serve on the committee.” Although he personally supported the tenure committee, Maydole described the responsibility of evaluating colleagues as a “distasteful duty.” He said another argument against the proposal was that the committee would be “an instrument of denial of tenure in more instances.” He also said there was fear that the Vice President could misinterpret a recommendation of the tenure committee: a recommendation of approval but with reservations could be interpreted as a negative opinion, thus leading to denial of tenure. Patterson added, “Any type of change meets resistance. The senior members thought the system we have has worked quite well.” Shi said he was “disappointed, but not surprised” by the vote. “It’s unfortunate that the faculty members are unwilling to accept the responsibility,” but, he mused, “If the committee were instituted...”

A grimacing Boulton (Continued from page 1) to invade the privacy of the individual involved.” Moreover, Zimmermann stressed “the professional integrity and credibility” inherent in any decision of this nature. Spencer reiterated the delicacy of these decisions but declined to comment beyond affirming the integrity of Davidson College, of Boulton, and of the decision-making process itself. Learning that his contract was not renewed, Boulton...

Proponents of the committee have not given up, however. “I expect it to come up again,” said Patterson, projecting that it might be revisited in “one or two years.” “Support is growing; chances are good.” In his four years at Davidson, Boulton, who holds a D. Phil. from Oxford, has served as a member of the first-year Humanities staff and has founded, and subsequently directed, Davidson’s Genealogical and Heraldic Society. In addition, he is directly responsible for the designing and drawing of the Davidson College “coat of arms,” which appears on the cover of the 1978-79 college catalogue.