Davidson College and the Draft
Bill Coward

I cannot remain quiet in the face of the return to barbarism for which Sam Maloney is calling in The Davidsonian. Sure, the logic which leads to the prescription for draft is almost invincible, but I think that it should be the prerogative of a liberal arts college to establish dialogue on the basic assumptions of this issue—the underlying morality and worldview—and not to be content with the mechanical necessities. That is properly the domain of technical schools; our task is much higher.

C. Wright Mills, a prominent contemporary sociologist, states in The Causes of World War III, “We are at a curious juncture in the history of human insanity; in the name of realism, men are quite mad, and precisely what they call utopian is now the condition of human survival. Utopian action is survival action; realistic, sound, common-sense, practical actions are now the actions of madmen and idiots.”

With all due respect to Dr. Maloney, I would tend to say he falls in the category of Mills’ realist and stands in contradiction of the character of this college as Christian and liberal arts. As a Christian, Karl Barth would probably say that the defense of a “Christian nation” does not preclude killing. While the morality of this position is largely subjective, we must re-examine America in these terms if we are to be sure of what we could be fighting for. Even if we then decide that America is, after all, a nation full of justice and Christian interaction, we must assume that there will be those who will not kill even for Christian motivations. (We would also have to assume that a minority would not reach the first conclusion).

Given this situation, liberal philosophy now must play its part. The basic principle supporting a liberal arts education, the Constitution of the United States, and indeed Protestant theology is the primacy of the individual in the affairs which concern him. Undeniably, individualism has had its bad moments in monopolies, dictatorships, extreme racism (the individual race), and sexism (the individual sex). Nevertheless, the benefits far outweigh the disadvantages: advances as we know them now have usually been the product of innovative thought, personal initiative (at least the profit motive), and stubborn resistance to the dogmas of the past.

Now more than ever we need creative, individual thought and action to solve problems which, if left unsolved, could throw us back into the Dark Ages. Even the traditional institutions (e.g., the army) cannot be trusted in themselves to muster the needed creativity. We don’t need more bureaucrats; we don’t need numbers where previously there were persons. We do need an environment of freedom in the face of the challenges we confront today. Conscription would go a long way towards destroying this environment of freedom.

There is the risk that the result of a weak army will be the invasion and subjugation of Americans by a foreign power. We would then hope that our democracy had been successful enough to ensure its eventual resurrection in a more durable form. This would depend on the strength given to democracy and its ultimate challenge.

Here is where Davidson College can make its contribution. It is saddening to see a leader in a liberal arts college supporting the draft when people depend on him to see beyond the practicalities of the present to the truths of the past, present, and future. For me, I will publicly burn my draft card if I ever receive one and Davidson College will be my first witness at my trial. Hopefully, the mass insanity of the times will not affect her witness to individual rights, Christianity, and the will to survive of man. It is high time we began serious dialogue concerning this resurrected monster. It is not enough to claim exemption for educational reasons, for that supports a system of discrimination against those not so lucky as ourselves. We should be considered fools to let Dr. Maloney send us youngsters into war as if to satisfy some Malthusian equation of population statistics. Otherwise, we will be counted as conspirators and will not know it before it is too late.

Bill Coward is a junior from Sylva, North Carolina.

The Watchman
A Guide to Courses

Moral Ire
To the Editor:

Through the years I have become accustomed to student attempts at humor and to good-natured ribbing of faculty members. I have become hardened to the confusion of the vulgar for the humorous and the use of words that good taste deletes from reputable daily newspapers. The dangers of censorship outweigh the risks inherent in adolescent, unprofessional, student leadership of college publications. Registering objections in the past has seldom seemed worth the effort. The April 6 edition ofThe Davidsonian, however, should arouse the moral ire of the entire Davidson community. Whoever wrote portions of the descriptions of members of the Biology and English Departments in particular—and whoever permitted them to be published—revealed a distressing lack of compassionate sensitivity and fellow-feeling. I have not seen such vicious defamation of character since the McCarthy era. I am embarrassed for the College. I am dismayed at how little the writers and editors responsible have absorbed of the sensitivity to values and to people implicit and explicit in the teaching efforts of so many of us on the Davidson faculty. What recourse do the victims of public character and professional assassination have to unsigned articles? The Code of Responsibility provides for the expulsion of students who steal the property of others and lie under oath. What should be done to students who steal the reputations and good names of members of the community by publishing untruths under the thin veil of malicious humor? The freedom of the press is such a precious freedom that it should be entrusted only to those who know how to use it responsibly. Freedom should never be mistaken for license. Actions should ensure that the misuse of trust not be repeated in this student generation.

Samuel D. Maloney
Professor of Religion

April Fool’s Issue
To the Editor:

The “April Fool’s” issue of The Davidsonian is sad. Sad because its editor and writers showed such poor taste, sad because they think that using obscene words is humorous, sad because they do not know what good satire and good humor are—or, at least, they cannot write good satire and good humor. After reading about twenty such attempts at humor in the last 20 years by The Davidsonian staff, I can say that only one showed real class. Perhaps one or two others had articles that showed class, but in the main, most of them were also sad. It is sad to think that almost every new staff of the paper cannot rise above the level of its predecessors. A former editor of PUNCH (who should be an authority on what is humorous and satiric) said that no one under thirty should ever attempt to write in a humorous vein. The last issue of The Davidsonian is living proof that the paper’s writers are proving most emphatically what that distinguished editor said. I cannot help wondering how many coeds were among those who wrote such drivel. It had been my hope that coeducation would have raised the standards of the men at Davidson, especially in raising the level of the vocabulary that is now in vogue among young people. I understand that many girls are trying to keep up with the boys in that regard. If this is true, then our state of affairs is sad.

We can only hope that the writers will do one of two things: 1) Apologize publicly for their junior high school prose; or 2) Eventually feel conscience-stricken as the years go by for making such a poor attempt at humor. If they do not take one of the above courses of action, then they are sick, sick, sick. In fairness, I would like to say that a limited number of satiric pieces showed class.

Francis Ghigo
Professor Emeritus of French

Sufficient Punishment
To the Editor:

To lose an editorship long sought and well treasured weighs heavily upon one’s self-esteem. I hope this will be remembered as the course guide is condemned. Senselessly inhumane it was. Cruel indeed. The unjustifiability and stupidity of it acknowledged, the editor has taken the prescribed punishment and has stepped down. To voluntarily initiate this act surely taxed the spirit and fiber of what had been to that point the most innovative editor in the Davidsonian’s recent history. Charles Erwin has given more devotion and time to the art of journalism as a student than anyone in the community. His rivals—and I don’t exaggerate—are few. Although I condemn Charles for the guide, I respect him as I respect Buck Tawrimore for his aptitude in journalism. This incident was a very unfortunate misjudgment on Charles’ part. I feel that Charles’ resignation is sufficient punishment for this. Scorn or further ridicule will benefit no one. So much for the editor, but what has this incident done to the community? The so-called wimp major’s perspective from which I speak gives me reason to hope that this incident will benefit our community. Emile Durkheim, perhaps the most prominent sociologist of the nineteenth century, asserts in his work The Normal and the Pathological that crime is inherent, normal, and good for society.