2—The Davidsonian—May 4, 1979

Election Continued from page 1

campus issues, rather than College Press Service stories about students on other campuses. According to Durden, several changes should be
made to readjust the focus of The Davidsonian toward students. First, Durden said student specialists should write more and be
recognized as specialists when they write. Readers can understand the particular view of the writer when they know the writer's
credentials, Durden said. Second, Durden said The Davidsonian should be more objective and more respectable rather than sensational. “There is
enough interesting stuff going on without sensationalism,” Durden noted. Third, Durden said The Davidsonian should contain more photography. She stated
that more photography will better illustrate the news.

According to Durden, it is the Editor’s role “to inspire the staff,” to ensure that staff members “keep their minds
open,” and to insist on consistency in writing. She emphasized that the Editor “should encourage a better rapport with the
faculty. The Davidsonian should pull faculty and students together with more faculty input,” Durden said.

Waddell has worked for The Davidsonian since the fall of his freshman year. He served as Assistant Sports Editor and
Co-Sports Editor before becoming Managing Editor last spring. He was recently appointed.

News at a Glance

PCC Proposal
The Patterson Court Council unanimously approved a proposal to fine students $40 for leaving their eating houses during the academic
year. PCC Chairman Jeff Harris explained that the fine is necessary to ensure the financial stability of eating houses and
on-campus fraternities. He said it is “essential to the economic survival of Patterson Court.” —MARK BARRETT

India Program
The faculty, in its meeting last Tuesday, voted to extend eligibility for the semester in India program to rising sophomores.
The program was previously open only to rising juniors, but a lack of interest has precipitated this move by the
faculty. Religion Professor Robert Kaylor stated, “If we get about four or five more applicants there is a real possibility
the program could go.” Kaylor, who is coordinating the program at Davidson, noted that several freshmen had approached him, expressing
an interest in the program. He hopes that there are enough freshmen interested to fill the remaining spots.

Davidson has been awarded a federal grant which would essentially cover the travel expenses incurred by the program. A minimum
number of students is needed, however, because all off-campus study programs are required to be self-supporting. Kaylor mentioned that the
India program needs at least fifteen participants to be self-supporting. With the Federal grant, the cost would be around $2,300
for the program. While in India, the students would attend Madras University and be enrolled in a course covering many
facets of the Indian culture, learn the Tamil language, and undertake a guided research project. Davidson students would earn four
ungraded course credits for participating in the program, which spans approximately sixteen weeks.

UNCC is participating with Davidson in this program, administered by the Indian government and Madras University. Dan White, a member
of the UNCC religion department, will accompany both schools’ participants to India. No Davidson professor will be accompanying the group.
Kaylor pointed out that if the College fails to enroll enough students in the program, the chances of being awarded
another federal grant for the following year would considerably diminish. Without the federal grant, the program would cost around $3,400
per participant. Applications are now available from Kaylor, who invites any interested students to stop by and see him. —PETE
HUX

SGA Committee Appointments
The Student Government Association has made its first round of appointments to campus committees. In their meeting Tuesday, the Senate
appointed John Willingham and David Sappenfield to the Media Board, which has general administrative authority over all student publications. Ed
Goode, Karen Hester, David Hoke, and Al Rhyne will be the new members of the Council on Campus and Religious
Life. This committee is concerned with the overall quality of student life at Davidson. Mike Cooper and Andy Miller were
appointed to the Academic and Cultural Programs Committee. Their duties will largely be to advise the Vice President of Academic
Affairs on public lectures and major cultural events. —FRANCES TAYLORProduction Coordinator. Waddell has worked extensively in the area of productions
and photography and is currently working on Hobart's Park. Waddell said The Davidsonian is “continuing to build a competent staff.
We have especially strong freshmen and junior involvement this year. In the fall we will work to get more involvement
from next year’s junior and freshmen classes.” As Editor, he plans to make “no major innovations” because “the staff needs
to feel stable, which has been a problem in the past. I'm interested in promoting this stability. Working for The
Davidsonian will be more fun and the quality of the work will improve once stability and organization are established,” he
added. He said The Davidsonian is “an outlet for the community” and it should serve to “inform, entertain, and keep
the people aware of not only their community but of the issues in the outside world as well.”

Waddell said he would like to see College Press Service stories continue to be published. He said CPS stories are
valuable in “rounding out the paper” since they add both a national and international aspect to the paper. As Editor,
Waddell plans to work to boost subscriptions. “This would require only a little extra effort,” he said. Waddell said the
Editor must serve as a “funnel” for the staff. He stated that the Editor needs to “keep his ears open
to the students, faculty, and administration” since he is a “spokesman for the paper and campus.” He said the Editor
should “keep tabs” on the editors and writers to be sure they do their jobs.

(Continued from page 1)

Hughes said that it would cost a further $40,000 to $50,000 to set up a 4-man dispatch service. Hughes explained
that when the college set up an independent security system a year ago, the campus police decided to continue to
use the town’s dispatcher. Not to do so would have required the replacement of all emergency phones and walkie-talkies. Hughes
added that “This campus is not big enough to sustain a 4-man dispatch service.”

Following last Wednesday's incidents, the campus police spoke to Cannon Hall Counselors Tuesday. In order to make the present dispatch
system efficient, the campus police said “if such an event occurs, find a friend, and call immediately. Either give explicit
details, or else ask the dispatcher to send the campus police car to the place.” They stressed that the caller
“give a name and callback number.” They added that girls should not walk around campus alone at night and should
carry a whistle, or even some weapon such as a hat-pin or bunch of keys. In the event of an
attack, girls should scream, bite, kick, and scratch—and run, the campus police said. They asked students to report any harassment,
or even loitering on campus by non-students. The campus police warned that “every time a student picks up a red
phone for a joke it weakens the system.”

In response to questions about freshmen women living in Richardson next year, the campus police said they will investigate the
need for new lights. At the moment, however, the crucial issue is how the dispatcher alerts campus police. Dean Terry
said, “We’ve got to do something to improve communications with the campus. Davidson Police Chief Mills is concentrating on this
at the moment.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term,
by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper's office is on the third
floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription rate: $6.00 per
year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

For now and into warmer weather

SUITS and BLAZERS

In blends of worsteds and cottons. Durable fabrics to stay complimenting accessories and furnishings.

Store Hours: 9am to 5:30pm Mon. thru Sat. closed Tues. afternoons

Join Meck & Sor Downtown Mooresville
