Marshall tops Davidson's ‘Cats 85-74; losing streak stretches to eleven games

By BRYAN KELLEHER and DAVID NEISLER
Staff Writers

The Davidson Wildcats suffered their eleventh straight loss last Monday night at the hands of Southern Conference opponent Marshall by an 85-74 score. The Thundering Herd mounted a 17-point halftime advantage behind Bunny Gibson’s 19 points. Thirteen turnovers and an effective defense on John Gerdy, who was held to only two free throws during the first 20 minutes, kept the Cats from challenging in the first half.

However, Davidson staged a strong comeback after the intermission. With 11:07 remaining, Marshall led 70-50, but John Gerdy and Jamie Hall sparked the Wildcats to cut the Herd's lead to eight points. Unfortunately, Davidson could get no closer. Gerdy fouled out with six minutes to go, and the Cats’ offense could not continue the surge. Marshall was led by George Washington’s 29 points. A bright spot for Davidson was the play of steadily improving Hall, who led Davidson with 24 points. Gerdy’s second-half surge netted him 18 (for a total of 20), while Todd Haynes added 16 points and retrieved 10 rebounds.

On January 8, the number one rated Fighting Irish of Notre Dame trounced the Wildcats 95-63 before a crowd of approximately 7,000 at the Charlotte Coliseum. The powerful Irish dominated the game from the start, shooting nearly 70 percent and outrebounding the Cats 34-22. The visitors featured a balanced attack, paced by Bruce Flowers’ 15 points. John Gerdy, who Notre Dame coach Digger Phelps called “one of the greatest shooters in the country,” led all scorers with 26 points.

Last Wednesday, January 10, the Cats traveled to Boone to face the Appalachian Mountaineers. The Cats stayed close for most of the game, but were unable to overcome the Mountaineers’ 66 percent shooting. Davidson lost 79-66. Once again, Gerdy led all scorers with 22 points, after being held to only two points in the first half. Haynes added 20 points, and Hall pulled down 10 rebounds.

Next Monday, Davidson faces Wake Forest in Charlotte, followed by a stretch of five important Southern Conference contests highlighted by Furman on January 27 and Appalachian on January 31.

Wake visits in Coliseum on Monday

Davidson faces another tough challenge this Monday night in the Coliseum. The Wake Forest Demon Deacons will play the Cats and students, faculty, and staff members are reminded to pick up their complimentary tickets at the athletic ticket window in Johnston Gym.

John Haskell

By JOHN HASKELL
Davidsonian Staff Writer

If one takes a look at life at Davidson a decade ago, one might conclude that the more things change, the more they stay the same. Students went to band parties just like today, they studied a lot, and they made trips to the Post Office. But external circumstances do change and the Davidson student of 10 years ago had things on his mind that are far from ours. Among these are such things as Vietnam, the military draft, and how far the Wildcats would go in the national basketball tournament. Of course, it’s especially hard to imagine this Davidson basketball team that played tough and aggressive defense, scored over 100 points regularly against its weaker opponents, and did not lose Southern Conference games—ever. And these teams...Of the Mike Maloy suffer through yet another dismal basketball campaign. But that’s how it was in 1968 when years ago did have a few things from his era seem particularly remote as we absolutely crazy during the Winter season. The Coliseum was packed for every game and Coach Lefty Driesell had a powerful, young team. His frontline consisted of super sophomores Mike Maloy, Doug Cook, and Jerry Kroll, with ball-hawking Dave Moser and Wayne Huckel starting in the backcourt. The Cats streaked into the NCAA’s tournament that year on the strength of 12 consecutive wins, ruining West Virginia in the Conference tournament final 87-70. They went on to play St. John’s, led by future Knick and Cavalier John Warren, in the first round of the 1968 national tournament. The Cats had walloped St. John’s earlier in the season and beat them again this time by 9 points. They headed next for Raleigh to play seven-foot Dave New- next game was for the Eastern regional championship against the powerful Tarheels of North Carolina. Carolina had Charlie Scott and 6’ 11” Rusty Clark, and the Cats were hurting because Cook had been injured in the Columbia game and would be unable to battle to a 34-28 half-time before Scott (18 points) and Clark (22 points and 18 rebounds) turned it around in the second half and UNC prevailed 70-66.

The real story of these Wildcat teams was, of course, Mike Maloy. The 6’ 6” New Yorker was one of the most devastating forces in college basketball at the time. Coach Driesell called him the “best forward in America.” St. John’s Lou Carnesecca said that the only college basketball player better than Mike was a man named Lew Alcindor. In 1969, Maloy’s junior year, he lived up to his reputation in the big games. His incredible play started with the Conference tourney final as Davidson obliterated Eastern Carolina 102-76. Mike had 25 points and 21 rebounds and earned the tournament MVP award, which he was to win again in 1970. The Cats hit the NCAA’s that year with the same starting lineup as the points, led Cook, oak 10 a eigriee St. John’s and again it was a trip to the Eastern Regional finals against the Tarheels, who were ranked number two the last two years, having been vanquished by UCLA in the 1968 finals. But the Cats hadn’t lost a rematch in two years and it didn’t seem like UNC had the material to counteract Davidson’s front line which was averaging almost 60 points and 30 rebounds a game. As it turned out, the front line got their 59 points, but Charlie Scott hit a jumper with just one second remaining to nip the Cats 87-85. Cook and Kroll both fouled out in the last few minutes as the Pihatocerd overcame a three-point deficit.

The picture was much the same in 1970 (with Terry Holland at the helm instead of Lefty) as the Cats waltzed to another S.C. Championship behind the identical front line and a new backcourt with his size 20 basketball shoes, and 5’ 10” guard named Billy Kalbaugh knocked us out of it. Wildcat fans have seen a great many changes since then. The program has come a way and Davidson, a school of 1000 men, went.