—Attack (Continued from page 1) girl. “I was much more explicit and gave the full nature of the incidents," she
said. However, neither town nor campus police have any record of the call being received. When asked about this discrepancy,
the second girl emphatically said, “I did make a call saying that we had been molested.” Both girls agreed their
calls to security were met with “nonchalance,” especially the second call. Hughes said he hoped that in the future, “Students
will be more detailed in describing their complaints. We were not aware that the incidents had a sexual nature until
today (Thursday).”

Kent St. memorial group split by resignations

Kent, OH (CPS)—The May 4 Task Force, the Kent State University student group that oversees the annual memorial programs for
the deaths of four students in 1970, has been split by the resignation of seven members. The seven claim the
Task Force has been diverted from its original “educational orientation” to “obscure political purposes.” Specifically, the resignees—who included co-chair Mike
Sorohan—protested that Task Force meetings were “undemocratic,” and that it had included a speaker for Pol Pot’s Democratic Kampuchea (Cambodia).
One speaker—Charles Thomas of the National Archives—has already withdrawn from this May’s memorial in support of the resignation. In a
letter explaining the resignations, the seven said the Pol Pot regime had been characterized by “gross” human rights violations. It
said the speaker represented the Task Force's “politicization.”

Student senate threatened with dissolution

AUBURN, AL (CPS)—Over 80 percent of the voting students at Auburn University approved a non-binding measure on the April 13
campus ballot that would make the student government subject to dissolution every year.

(Continued from page 1) Court is to make a recommendation to the College President and Dean of Students on the
new social natures of the two houses. According to Ratliff, two national fraternities are interested in reestablishing chapters that they
once had at Davidson, and there is considerable demand for another women’s eating house. Ratliff added that, “Co-ed houses are
a possibility if demand is shown.” Ratliff also stated that it has been suggested to give the two houses to
the off-campus fraternities, Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta, but he discounted the possibility of either’s returning to Patterson
Court. Ratliff said that the subcommittee, “Does not want to make a recommendation without input from many students, so that
it can consider a wide range of opinions.” The subcommittee is, however, fairly diverse. Ratliff is a member of Phi
Delta Theta, and the other members are Laura Michael, a member of Rusk, Jim Tholen, a member of Phi Gamma
Delta, and Joseph Gardner, a drama professor. Ratliff stressed that the subcommittee’s recommendation will be best received by the College
administration if it clearly represents student desires for the future of the Patterson Court social system. Ratliff has therefore been
actively soliciting students’ opinions and wants students to express their ideas on the new houses’ roles by contacting the subcommittee
members.

Fraternities

The measure, sponsored by losing presidential candidate Jim Purcell, would have students vote whether to continue the student government at
least once a year. The measure, however, has no legal force. Purcell originally presented the proposal in January as a
constitutional amendment, but the Student Senate said it was “improperly drawn.” Purcell then discovered that there were no guidelines for
“properly” drawing up an amendment, and the resultant student pressure forced the government to put the measure on the ballot,
if only as a non-binding opinion poll. Purcell says he will submit a new proposal to the Student Senate, probably
later this month. The measure, if passed, would be binding. The junior said the continuing threat of dissolution would “put
some fire under SGA officials to do something for students.” He said because so few students vote in the elections,
the government “isn’t really representative of the entire student body.” The Auburn vote came less than a week after students
at the University of Georgia voted to dissolve their student government. Over the last twelve months, student governments at the
University of Texas-Austin and at the University of Northern Colorado alsoHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

---

have disbanded. April 27, 1979—The Davidsonian—3 Members of this year's cheerleading squad Lisa Hasty and Dale Hart rejoice over their
selection for next year's squad. (Brad Kerr)

Attrition will affect housing
By EMMA CRICHTON-MILLER
Staff Writer

Reassurance is at hand for the 120 freshmen who thought they were without a room for (Continued from page 1)
Board members, hall counselors, and participants in several varsity sports. When Sigma Phi Epsilon moved off campus, “we never wanted
to lose our strong national ties, which kept us together,” reported president Billy Taylor; “for we have more pledges and
brothers than ever before, based on our work to improve relations with the campus community. We have twenty initiates this
year and over forty-five brothers, which is double the figures of three years ago,” Taylor said. As for a parallel
to the national trend, “having a fraternity-owned house where brothers live is a big advantage.” A few years ago, the
Sig Ep’s sported T-shirts that read “Obnoxious in victory, bitter in defeat.” Taylor does not believe the obnoxious label still
applies. “That attitude kept us together during the move off-campus and angered many people, but we've made a conscious effort
to alleviate that.”

Adrian Wilson, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, does not see any relation between activities within the SAE house and current
nationwide movements. When asked whether there was any parallel, Wilson said “not necessarily, because we've always been strong and strive
to maintain our strength.” While many people at Davidson label SAE as prep school oriented, Wilson admits that though “we
do have a preppy faction, it is not dominant. Too much of one faction leads to stagnation, so we try
to attract various elements, and we've been very successful.” The SAE’s point to extreme diversity as a major advantage. In
the past three years, they have had three football team captains, and over a third of the house has competed
in inter-collegiate athletics; aside from athletics, there has been an SGA president and over a dozen SGA senators, with an
equal number of hall counselors. They boast a Union Board president and members, The Davidsonian staffers, a Watson Fellow, and
last year, two members of Phi Beta Kappa. Wilson believes that his house has a great sense of pride in
its national affiliation. “I hope the trustees will realize that there is a sad positive resurgence taking place here and
will reinstate the bid system,” he explained.

George Brown, president of Kappa Alpha, reports that “most KA’s are not excited about national membership,” but rather take great
pride in being a Davidson KA. As proof, Brown told of nine members selected for Phi Beta Kappa this year.
Almost half the SGA consists of KA’s including the president. Over ninety percent of the house competes in intramurals, according
to KA senior Bill Anderson. Membership in the national fraternity compares well to the movement sweeping America. “Three years ago,
only twelve seniors were national members. Now there are thirty members in each class,” said Brown. Even though the Davidson
KA’s retain themes like “Old South Weekend,” Brown played down the “Southern gentleman” image. “At least half our members are
from the North.”

Reassurance is at hand for the 120 freshmen who thought they were without a room for next year. At the
moment the number without rooms from all classes has fallen to 68 men and 10 women. According to Housing Director
Scotty Nicholls, the situation is quite normal and the college always succeeds in placing all those students who want housing.
“Natural attrition takes care of the problem between April and September,” Nicholls said. She is already aware of four or
five people who will not be back in the fall to occupy their rooms. Usually some other people decide to
leave or go abroad at the last minute, Nicholls said. Nicholls also explained that there is still plenty of housing
in town to be filled. A list of rooms available is pinned on the bulletin board outside Nicholls’ office. Seniors
also frequently decide to move off campus later in the year, leaving rooms in the dorms to be filled by
sophomores, said Nicholls. Nicholls likened the college’s policy to that of hotel overbooking. She added that if Davidson did not
overbook, it would have fewer students than it has room for in the fall.
