Karen Welty is one of several talented students that will be in the 900 Room this weekend.

By BEN CRAKER
Staff Correspondent

Sophomore Karen “Bob” Welty will sing in the 900 Room on Friday and Saturday nights.

The action starts on Thursday with the annual Top Hat and Cat Tales student talent show in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. Flute playing, singing, tap dancing, clogging, and the famous SAE skit are just a few of the selected acts.

Later that evening, John Stanfield will be performing in the 900 Room. Stanfield is a 1976 graduate of Davidson and plays the 12-string guitar, fiddle, slide guitar, and the harmonica.

On Friday from 3:30 to 6:30, there will be an Octoberfest celebration in the College Union. Wurst (sausage) and brezeln (pretzels) will be the main dishes along with beer and cider. Plenty of rowdy music will be playing thanks to Davidson’s own Oompah Band, featuring Art Buraglio on the accordion. Steins, yodler hats, and T-shirts will be available as well.

Things really take off on Friday night with the Danko and Butterfield Band in Love Auditorium at 8:00. In the past, this group has been the backup band for Bob Dylan concerts. Rick Danko is an outstanding bass player, and Paul Butterfield is an internationally known blues guitarist. Tickets are $3 and are on sale at the Union ticket office.

Bob plays soft rock such as Janis Ian and Gordon Lightfoot. Her performances will be at 9:30 and 11:00 both nights.

Saturday evening there will be a German International dinner at 6:00 in the 900 Room. Tickets are available at the Union Desk.

The campus-wide dance features Maurice Williams and the Zodiacs from 9:00–1:00 in the gym Saturday night. Dress is casual, and tickets are $2.00.

Ending the busy weekend will be Cafe Marburg in the 900 Room from 12:30 till 2:00. Come relax and enjoy German coffee cakes, coffee, and cider to the background music of Art Buraglio on the accordion.

Razoumovsky Quartet

Davidson's first chamber music performance of the year will be this Monday night, October 8, at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. The renowned Razoumovsky Quartet will perform several classics.

The group’s program will feature Beethoven's “Quartet in Bb Major, Op. 130,” and Brahms’ “Clarinet Quintet in D Major, Op. 115.”

A Sense Of Purpose? Add It To Your Schedule.

Thousands of Army ROTC graduates, from hundreds of college campuses, have become leaders in our country’s volunteer Army.

Some enrolled in ROTC for financial aid to complete college (nearly $2500 during their junior and senior years). Others for the management training and experience offered by Army ROTC courses. Still others for the positions of immediate leadership responsibility following graduation, as officers in the active Army, Reserves, and Army National Guard.

But most enrolled also to serve their country. Men and women from the north, the east, the south, the west... from small rural communities and large urban areas.

They've shown that you don’t have to be from Tennessee to be a volunteer, or from Texas to stand tall for your country.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

CPT Neil Touchet

What Do You Want From College?