—The Davidsonian— February 2, 1979

Former Davidson Watson Fellows to return next week

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Next Thursday, a group of six Davidson graduates, all former Watson Fellows, will be returning to campus for two days to meet with students and faculty groups to discuss a variety of topics. The visit is being sponsored by the Watson Foundation, which annually awards fellowships to graduating seniors. Recipients then spend one year abroad studying an issue or social problem in a program of their own design.

The group consists of Dr. James Trussell '71, Steve Salyer '72, Lester Strang '72, Ron Gibson '75, Andy Lamas '76, and Crawford Crenshaw '77. Members of the group will speak Thursday and Friday on their Watson experiences, career interests, and other topics.

Thursday, the group will have lunch with the North Carolina Fellows and Stuart Scholars. Several of them will also speak to Dr. Proctor’s Foreign Policy class, and Dr. Trussell will lecture to the senior economics majors. At 3:00 on Thursday afternoon, the group will be in the 900 Room of the Union to meet with and speak to students interested in law school, business school, or public policy graduate work. Several of the visitors will also participate in the YMCA.

SGA approves recruitment weekend

By KENT DYER
Staff Correspondent

The Student Government Association decided Tuesday to create a trial pre-orientation weekend this March 21 through 23 for high school seniors accepted early because of their outstanding qualifications. Aimed at recruiting Davidson’s most promising applicants, the weekend, as organized by SGA Senator David Barnard, will be an experimental program which may be continued in future years if it is successful.

SGA President Bruce Brown hopes that the special weekend will catalyze their interest by offering personal attention from faculty and students. According to SGA President Bruce Brown, “We’re most concerned about attracting the cream of the crop, those who are the first batch to be accepted, and who frequently decide to go elsewhere.” Currently, the Admissions Department enrolls approximately six percent of those applicants who are accepted.

Urban area study grants planned

By JULIE GIBERT
Staff Correspondent

Center for Special Studies Dean Robert Avinger announced today that $1000 grants will be awarded to four students this summer. The students will study the impact of urban areas on surrounding small towns. The grants will be awarded as part of a program entitled “On the City’s Rim: Small Towns Responding to the Prospects of Urban Growth.”

The program began last spring when the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company awarded the Center a $6000 grant to fund research by five students over the course of two academic years. Students participating in the program will receive a grant of $1000 to fund approximately two months of summer research and study. This research, which must focus on “some issue related to urbanization and small town identity,” according to Avinger, will be supervised by a member of the Davidson faculty.

One grant was awarded last summer, leaving four grants available for students who wish to study in the summer of 1979. Selection of students to receive the four grants will take place during spring term. A student need not be a current member of the Center for Special Studies to apply. Although no academic credit will be given for the project, Avinger hopes that “the student will use this research and study as a basis for further work of an academic nature.”The first letters of acceptance go out, approximately 300 people are notified. Yet only 34 percent of these students decide to attend Davidson. The program will be funded by $1000 from the Admissions Office and $500 from the SGA. The money will cover food and publicity expenses. Main events will include a series of mini-courses informing prospective students about possible avenues of study and a field day with upperclassmen to acquaint prospectives with Patterson Court.

Service Corps public policy discussion at 7:00 Thursday night in the Center for Special Studies. The discussion is open to the public. At 10 am on Friday, all juniors interested in applying for Watson Fellowships next year can discuss the program with several of the former Fellows in the Morrison Room of the Union.

Residence hall rules suspended
By KEITH HEARLE
Staff Correspondent

The Student Government Association voted recently to suspend the Residence Hall By-Laws, which serve as the charter for the Residence Hall Council, to permit reorganization of the Council on a two-year trial basis. The Council was originally formed to work with Housing Director Scotty Nicholls on dorm problems. According to SGA Vice President John Jackson, who initiated the proposal, the Council has been generally ineffective during its seven-year existence because of lack of interest and direction.

The new Council will handle the purchase of dorm cleaning and recreational equipment, and investigate reports of vandalism and violations of the Code of Responsibility. It will also work on solving problems with the room lottery, and will aid Nicholls in enforcing housing regulations. The Council includes five members appointed from the student body, all dorm managers, and the SGA Vice President. During the trial period, the five student members will be appointed by the Dean of Students, the Housing Director, and the SGA Vice President to ensure their competency and interest. The revitalized Council will be re-evaluated after the two-year trial period to gauge its effectiveness.

Clarifications

An article on college radio station WDAV on the front page identified Mr. Don Lovell as the station’s director. Lovell’s current title is “part-time Community Relations Coordinator.”

Two sentences were unknowingly fused in last week’s editorial on History Professor Jonathan Boulton, to create a new sentence of some embarrassment to this newspaper. The paragraph as it read: “In the first place Boulton has spent about half his time teaching Humanities and history survey courses which usually attract a dozen students and have never attracted fewer than six.” The paragraph as it was written: “In the first place, Boulton has spent about half his time teaching Humanities and history survey courses, both of which have naturally filled up. As for his medieval history courses, they usually attract about a dozen students and have never attracted fewer than six.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Clothes Right for You. Come by and browse, because now is the saving season. SALE!! only 6 miles north Nek & Son DOWNTOWN, MOORESVILLE Store Hours: 9 AM to 5:30 PM Mon.-Sat. except closed Tues afternoons.