THE DAVIDSONIAN > The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 21
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, April 13, 1979

Davidson students, faculty join anti-nuclear demonstration
By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Writer

About fifty people from Davidson participated in an anti-nuclear demonstration Sunday afternoon at the front gate of the unfinished McGuire nuclear plant six miles south of Cornelius. A procession to the front gate of the plant and several short speeches, as well as a prayer for the people of Harrisburg, Penn. who recently witnessed a nuclear accident, were some of the activities last Sunday. The crowd of over 200 people also chanted anti-nuclear sayings throughout the demonstration.

A Duke Power Company official, Energy Services Supervisor Mary Cartwright, described the demonstration as “extremely orderly.” Suzy Yoder, the spokesman for the Davidson Energy Group, counted 215 demonstrators, many of whom were members of environmental groups from Charlotte and Asheville. The demonstrators from Davidson included many members of the Davidson Energy Group, professors and professors’ families, about thirty students, and several townspeople.

Sophomore Geoff Little, who co-heads the Davidson Energy Group with Lilith Otey, was the key figure in organizing Davidson’s participation in the demonstration. Little and Yoder said the demonstration as a whole was organized by the Charlotte Safe Energy Alliance primarily as a reaction to the recent accidents at the Three Mile Island nuclear plant near Harrisburg, Penn.

Yoder was the only member of the Davidson Energy Group to address the demonstrators. Her speech focused on five basic objections to the McGuire plant: the safety problems of nuclear operation, the catastrophes that would result in the event of major radiation leakage, the decline of property values around the plant in the event of any accident, the high cost of nuclear power to the consumer, and the problems of storing nuclear waste.

Alex Coffin, Manager of News Services for Duke Power, said Wednesday that the demonstrators made no objections to nuclear power that have not already been made by other nuclear power opponents. Coffin added, “We feel that nuclear power is the safest and cleanest source of energy.” Yoder said the Three Mile Island accidents confirmed there are safety problems inherent in nuclear power. Coffin felt the fact no one was killed or injured in the accidents proved the general safety of nuclear plants. Coffin added that in the wake of Three Mile Island, Duke Power is making a comprehensive evaluation of procedures at all its nuclear sites. He said the review of nuclear plants conducted thus far has given Duke Power no reason to alter procedures anywhere. Both Yoder and Little agreed the goal of the demonstration...

Erwin resigns editorship
By JIM GARRETT
News Editor

Davidsonian Editor Charles Erwin submitted his resignation to the Media Board before an open forum Monday because of controversy surrounding a faculty lampoon entitled A Guide to Courses at Davidson. Senior News Editor Dennis McLawhorn and Features Editor Ann Garner were appointed co-editors by the Media Board in consultation with The Davidsonian’s junior and senior editors at a meeting Monday night.

The faculty spoof was published as a supplement to The Davidsonian’s April 6th issue. Erwin’s resignation was triggered by faculty questions concerning the offensive nature of the lampoon. English Professor Charles Lloyd said, “Charles had great possibilities as an editor, but resigning was the right thing for him to do.” Lloyd added, “All of us ought to be more loving and considerate of each other. The important thing is not what people say about us; the important thing is to do what is right.”

McLawhorn said Erwin’s resignation was unfortunate because “Charles had such great knowledge of journalism and he had done so much for the paper in the last three years.” McLawhorn, a junior, has served The Davidsonian for three years. He was Assistant News Editor, News Editor, Sports Editor, and Senior News Editor before his appointment as co-editor this week.

Garner said, “It took a lot of courage for Charles to express his apology and to offer his resignation before the entire community.” She added that Erwin’s resig...Nation was inevitable because of faculty objections to last week’s lampoon. Garner, also a junior, has served The Davidsonian as both Focus and Features Editor. As far as The Davidsonian’s (See Erwin, page 1) was not to prevent the McGuire plant from going into operation. It is almost completed and scheduled to open around 1981. Instead, Little described the demonstration as a “show of concern” about the safety of the plant. Yoder added that the demonstration was a signal that the public would not tolerate the construction of any more nuclear plants in the Lake Norman area.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS march in last Sunday's anti-nuclear demonstration. Little hopes anti-nuclear protests such as Sunday’s will raise public awareness of the problems with nuclear power and encourage people “to contact public officials about their concerns.”

Dean White leaves Davidson for new career
By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

After twenty-four years as a Davidson administrator, eighteen as Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, H. Edmunds White is resigning his post to become the new Athletic Director at Southwestern University, University of Memphis. White, who replaces Dick Thornton at Southwestern, will assume his new duties this July.

White, a 1947 Davidson graduate, returned to the College eight years later as Assistant Dean of Students. He said in this position he was very much involved with admissions. He has served in his present role since 1962. White was a Davidson basketball player with an A average, and during his first year as Assistant Dean of Students here he coached the junior varsity basketball team. Through his interest and participation (he is a regionally-ranked tennis player), he has remained close to the world of sports. “I have kept up with it as an observer, and by talking with coaches at great length,” he said.

White said he has been interested in a position in athletic administration “for six or eight years without actively pursuing it. Then, when I heard about this vacancy back in November, I applied for the job.” White described Southwestern as “a school like Davidson in nature, although their athletic program is different.” Southwestern’s athletic teams participate in the NCAA’s Division III, which does not permit the issuance of student athletic grants. Davidson is in Division IA, and is able to grant athletic scholarships.

One of White's chief goals for the coming year is to strengthen Southwestern’s athletic program while maintaining its academic atmosphere. “They're getting someone who recognizes the academic program as the primary priority,” he said of himself. “We can have a strong Division III program within that context. The athletic program should be a great big plus to the primary purpose of the institution,” he added.

Mrs. Anne Marie Williford, Dean of Students at Southwestern, said, “Mr. White brings so many needed administrative skills, as well as his life-long interest in athletics, both varsity and other levels.” College President Sam Spencer said he feels “Dean White's departure will be a tremendous loss. For years, throughout the admissions profession in which he is so highly respected, his name has been synonymous with integrity and high standards. We will greatly miss his total devotion to the college and his high competence in one of its most important positions.” As of now, no replacement for White has been found, according to Spencer.

Media Board holds forum
By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

For nearly an hour and a half Monday afternoon, 200 students and faculty exchanged views on The Davidsonian’s controversial April 6 Supplement. The special forum in Perkins Auditorium was sponsored by Davidson's Media Board, a student-faculty committee that oversees student media operations. Chairman Harry Greyard opened the forum by saying, “We (the Media Board) do not anticipate any action being taken at this meeting.” But Davidsonian Editor Charles Erwin then stood and offered his resignation to the Media Board. He said he accepted full responsibility for the issue, “A Guide to Courses at Davidson,” and apologized to any faculty members who were (See Media Board, page 2)