Freshman Tim Owens is one of the DJs for WDAV. (Gregg Strader)

WDAV operating in ‘barely tolerable’ situation; only able to use 50 percent of its power

By MARK BARRETT
Asst. News Editor

In what WDAV’s new Radio Director Ed McIntyre termed a “barely tolerable” situation, WDAV has been broadcasting at approximately 50 percent of its full power capacity for the past six weeks. The power reduction, from a maximum transmitting power of 18,540 watts to approximately 9,270 watts, was made at the request of Transco Corporation, which owns the tower from which WDAV’s signal is currently transmitted. Transco complained WDAV's signal at full power interfered with their microwave communications from the same tower.

McIntyre explained since WDAV was using the tower free of charge, the College felt it had no choice but to reduce WDAV’s wattage. Plans are uncertain as to when and how WDAV’s signal will be returned to full strength, according to McIntyre. He noted that the power reduction has resulted in fair to poor reception outside the immediate Davidson area, but was uncertain exactly how far WDAV’s signal presently reaches. “We are not reaching all of the areas we could be reaching,” he acknowledged.

McIntyre also announced the station has hired a non-student announcer and will soon add new non-classical programming. Good reception in Charlotte, McIntyre said, now depends on the location of the listener, and whether he has a good receiver and a well-placed antenna. McIntyre pointed out, however, that, “Even before the power reduction, our signal had not been getting into Charlotte as well as we would have liked.”

When asked about possible steps to correct the problem, McIntyre said the College is presently having a shield built around Transco's microwave equipment. He hopes that will end the interference. He expects the screen to be finished “within a month at most.” McIntyre did not guarantee the shield would work, however, saying, “The shield is something we’re going to try. It’s not a sure thing. It might affect the interference significantly, but then again, it might not. Radio is a tricky thing. We really don’t know what will happen.” He was uncertain what steps would be taken if the shield was unsuccessful in ending, or significantly reducing, the interference. “We're looking into a lot of different possibilities, including building a new tower,” he added.

McIntyre said WDAV’s programs, to begin April 2, will consist mostly of jazz and rock. He stressed, however, that in no way will the new programs displace its present classical programming, as the new shows will not begin until after 10 pm, WDAV’s current sign-off time. McIntyre said the new programs came as a result of listener and staff requests for other types of music besides classical. He also noted, “Especially since the demise of the jazz programming of WRPL (a Charlotte station), there seems to be a market in this area for jazz.”

The programs will be produced and announced mostly by students. Students working on the shows will not be paid, and will be required to work a certain minimum number of paid hours before 10 pm broadcasting classical music. The new programs will consist of seven different weekly shows from 10 to 11 pm, and a daily show from 11 pm until 1 am. The daily show, entitled “Flip Sides,” is termed by WDAV’s April program guide “the jazz and rock alternative.”

Regina Scruggs, WDAV’s new full-time non-student announcer, plans to begin work about April 10, according to McIntyre. She will then assume her duties as chief announcer which will involve 35 hours on the air per week and helping train WDAV’s student announcers. She has an undergraduate degree in music from Beloit College in Wisconsin and had done graduate work in music theory at Northwestern University. McIntyre said she has extensive experience in radio and has been involved in a college radio station. McIntyre said she was hired to upgrade WDAV’s announcing quality, both through her air time and her training of WDAV’s student announcers.

McIntyre also revealed that WDAV had its first FCC inspection March 8 toward receiving final licensing. He said he felt, “We came through rather well.” WDAV is still operating under program test authority from the FCC, which gives it authority to broadcast until the FCC has an opportunity to further examine its operations. An FCC spokesman said Tuesday that obtaining program test authority is the major hurdle in the licensing process of a station. He called final approval “90 percent formality, unless irregularities are found.”

Sex ratio change won't mean much

By CAROLE LOPTSON
Asst. News Editor

As a result of a recent Trustee decision to modify the sex-ratio admissions policy for freshmen, a slightly higher percentage of freshmen women will be on campus next year. Administrators indicated that the change to a 2 to 1 male to female ratio was to bring admissions policy in line with the application ratio.Warned that the change from 2.3 to 1 does not represent a trend to merit-based admissions. “I would say it is not a trend, that it is just staying in line with the original decision. It’s not a change in Trustee policy but it may be a change in College practice,” said Dean of Students Will Terry. “The Trustees rather specifically said they were adopting a 2 to 1 ratio,” said College President Samuel Spencer. The Trustees’ 1972 decision to admit women entailed retaining 1,000 men and gradually adding women as facilities and housing permitted. The Trustees’ decision indicates “some shift in policy, in actual aim,” said White.

March 30, 1979—The Davidsonian—3

Cartmill reels
By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

A week after SGA presidential candidates John Jackson and Andy Miller recommended the dismissal of Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill, Cartmill said, “I’m completely in the dark and very much shocked that they would seek a rather important office at the expense of someone's job without getting the facts.” Cartmill noted that neither candidate had talked with him (during their campaigns) concerning the state of the athletic program.

Increased dissatisfaction with the job Cartmill is doing comes at a time of discontent with Davidson’s athletic program in general, and “since Cartmill is in charge, he is answerable,” said recently-elected SGA President John Jackson. Andy Miller, who as a member of the SGA Athletic Committee has worked with Cartmill this year, questioned Cartmill’s competence. “His manner of refusing is to say ‘yes’ and then not do it,” Miller said of Cartmill’s reliability on the job. Miller said he thinks some coaches, students, and faculty will agree that Cartmill often fails to fulfill his intentions.

Miller furnished one example of a worn and frayed rope in the weight room that he said was not replaced until three months after Cartmill had signed the work order. Miller also questioned the way Cartmill has handled the athletic budget. “Another point of irresponsibility is that in the last three years the athletic budget has wildly gone over its appropriations,” he said. Miller explained that while basketball coach Dave Pritchett was here, he overspent his appropriations by approximately $100,000. Miller thinks that as Pritchett’s overseer, Cartmill can be held accountable for this happening. “The athletic budget has been mishandled,” Miller said.

Students, Miller explained, have lately criticized Cartmill for not releasing the athletic budget. But this criticism, said Cartmill, is not legitimate because any figures that are disclosed are done so by College President Samuel Spencer and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann. Even though the decision to make public Davidson’s athletic budget is not Cartmill’s decision, he nevertheless acknowledged, “I have no objections to giving out the budget.”

Spencer disclosed Wednesday that the fabled athletic budget will be published in the upcoming issue of the Davidson Update. The basketball ticket imbroglio this past winter was the blatant instance of mismanagement within the athletic department, according to Miller. Students could pick up only their own game ticket, upon presentation of a College I.D. card, starting at least several days before the game. The old system, however, permitted students to pick up their own tickets as well as those of friends, so that large groups could sit together at the game. It was a matter of convenience, Miller explained, to operate by this system. When the athletic department decided to change the procedure, “Cartmill didn’t give us (the SGA Athletic Committee) a solid reason why any of that happened,” Miller said.

Seniors Bill Barnett, Tim Goodell, and Carl McPhail are currently working to have the athletic program evaluated by an outside consulting agency. Goodell thought that the athletic department could spend its money more effectively. “We’re not after anyone’s job,” Barnett said. He explained his position: “I am primarily concerned with three areas of the athletic program. First, I am not sure that the policies we (Davidson) are currently following are appropriate for Davidson. Second, I am concerned that the character and academic ability of some of the recruited athletes seems to be below that of the student body as a whole. Third, I am concerned that the personnel in the athletic department are not being utilized effectively.”

The three students have presented their suggestions to Spencer, Math professor J. B. Stroud, who is Chairman of the Advisory Council on Athletics, and to several Trustees. “We can get the athletic program back on par with the rest of the College,” Barnett concluded. Spencer said of the possibility of hiring an outside consultant to examine athletics, “It’s something we’ve done in the past with other departments and could do in this instance.” “It’s common practice—an administrative decision,” Spencer added.

A poll taken last year among Davidson seniors, the results of which were never published, asked seniors to evaluate Cartmill’s performance in the Southern Conference.