a fA

Manning

“Star Wars” groupies should check out Prof. Manning, an exact replica of Artoo-detoo.

Frey

Professor's Statement:

If you don’t know by now what physics is, I'm not going to waste my class time trying to make
you understand. It’s obvious enough to me what these physics courses are about. Are you sure you read the catalog’s
course description? If you can think of specific questions to ask, you're free to see me during my office hours,
but otherwise I don’t think I can help you. Wait—here’s a syllabus. Is that what you want?

Student Comments:

You gotta do a bunch of pledged problems every night, and I know I sure spent about an hour on
each of them. Physics ain't no wimp course, neither, and Frey lets you know it right off the bat. At
least you don’t gotta write up labs. And you know what else? He talks kinda like he’s got a mouthful
of nails in his mouth, you know what I mean? Well anyway, I personally flunked his course. Made an F.

Wolf

Favors capital punishment for Code of Responsibility violators.

Cain

Presently doing research on the sexual effects of simple...

Political Science

Minter

Winfred P. Minter, the King of Poly Slide, is known better for his dress and protocol than his masterful teaching.
In class, he sports the finest in K-Mart fashions.

His entire wardrobe consists of a solid maroon necktie; two pairs of slacks, khaki and navy double knits; a double
knit, navy sport coat; and two heavily soiled white shirts. The eyeglasses are from Pearle Optical. The deodorant is non-existent.

Professor Minter’s sleepers, especially Con Law in the afternoon, provide an excellent opportunity to write letters to the hometown honey,
drink Stroh’s, or read Playboy unnoticed.

“P. Min” has the most tender heart on the Davidson faculty. He is particularly partial to coeds. If a Davidson
woman pulls an F on a Minter review, she has two options.

First, like a fool, she can accept the grade. Otherwise, she can tell Mr. Nice Guy about how all her
dates have interrupted her studies, and Minter will give her at least a B without hesitation. It matters none at
all whether she is attractive; Minter is a pervert.

Guys stand an equal chance in these brown-nose sessions if they tell Minter how beautiful his daughter is. A subtle
lie about a 4.0 GPA and a poly slide major is advisable.

One caution to coeds: either Minter is forgetful, or the zipper... NEVERMIND.....

Devon

Students who signed up for South Asian Development with Tonia this term are still trying to find out when their
class meets and whether Devon's office is in the Post Office basement or the back seat of Erich O.J.S. Wruck’s
motor scooter.

Linden

Dr. Linden is the only professor in Davidson history who has never taught a class and who appeared on the
front page of two newspapers in the same week.

Proctor

African Politics expert Harris Proctor still has not learned that pygmies with blowguns and headhunters with meat cleavers do not
practice politics—they practice voodoo.

Ortmeyer

Collects Nation Flags found in boxes of Kaboom.

Retzer

Would like to know where he can get his cattle prod fixed.

Thomas

Job Thomas is without question Davidson's most respected non-white professor. He has a very pleasing and interesting personality. Academic Vice
President Price Zimmermann recently praised Thomas, saying, “Dr. Thomas certainly adds color to our faculty.”

Thomas’ lecture style is often quite dry, but he spices it up with stories from his childhood in Southern India.

“I remember when Dr. Zimmermann asked me to work at Davidson. It was the day after I graduated from high
school. He offered me fifty dollars a week and even said he'd let my family and me live in his
garage for twenty-five dollars a week. I was so happy at such a generous offer.”

Thomas encourages students to come by his office. It is located in the basement of the maintenance shop.

Psychology

Brockway

HOBBIES: motorcycles, hunting small furry animals, selling guns to underdeveloped African nations.

MEMORABLE QUOTE: “I simply can’t stand ineptitude.”
SCOTCH: Dewar’s

John-“I am the smartest man in the world”-Brockway has been a colorful addition to the psych. department since his release
from the Reprogramming Institute for Cognitive Psychology two years ago.

His many experiences before coming to Davidson include a stint in the Army Intelligence, teaching in Austria, graduate work at
Penn State, adviser to Roosevelt on the Manhattan Project, visiting the moon, and solving the Hundred Years' War.

Never a stickler for routine and order, John occasionally smiles (usually when someone says something he considers stupid) and once
gave an A in a class he taught.

One day Dr. and Mrs. B. were walking down the road, hand in hand:

Mrs. B: My, John. What a beautiful sunset.

Dr. B.: Why thank you, Polly. I do the best I can.

Kello

HOBBIES: Split Brain Research, biting the heads off laboratory rats, split brain research.

MEMORABLE QUOTE: “Don’t listen to Brockway, I am the smartest man in the world.”
SCOTCH: Dewar’s

Don’t be put off by the Jim: vanee olessee—underneath...
