2—The Davidsonian—December 7, 1979

Barrett assumes editorship

By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

Sophomore Mark Barrett will be the editor of The Davidsonian starting in January. He was the only person who filed for candidacy. Barrett will be the Davidsonian’s first sophomore editor in many years. He is taking the post as a sophomore because, he said, “I am the best person for the job; I would like to have more experience, but the opportunity is here now.” Barrett said that to his knowledge he is the only high-level staff member interested in the job.

The paper has been hurt by a lack of continuity recently because there have been five editors since fall term of last year, Barrett said. He wants to be careful to preserve the paper’s stability. Therefore, he will institute changes gradually, as he feels the paper becomes ready. Barrett stressed that these changes will be made in conjunction with the staff. “I want to be an editor, not a dictator,” he said.

Mark Barrett

“The paper can be a very progressive force here,” Barrett said, through effective editorials and through news coverage. He said that now the Davidsonian’s editorials simply present an issue and its several sides without taking a stand. “I feel that the Davidsonian needs to take close looks at the issues and definite stands on these issues, including positive proposals.”

Barrett said before the Davidsonian can achieve its potential, it must have more staff members. “The people on the staff now are dedicated, hard-working, and know their jobs well, but they are overworked.” He believes that a larger workforce will ultimately improve the paper’s quality because “once we spread the workload around, people will be less pressured and will be able to do their jobs better.”

Barrett plans to go door to door asking students what they like and dislike about the paper, asking for suggestions, and recruiting contributors. He added that anyone interested in working for The Davidsonian in any capacity should contact him.

Barrett will increase the length of most issues from eight to twelve pages as soon as the staff has grown enough. Greater length will provide room for in-depth news analyses, investigative reporting, news from the Davidson area, items from the College Press Service, and a “better paper in general,” he said. Twelve-page issues will also allow the features department to expand coverage to include cultural events in Davidson and Charlotte and to do more human interest stories, Barrett said.

Barrett would like to see the sports department continue a trend toward more reporting on upcoming contests and less rehashing of past games and seasons. He plans an ad program based on that of former editor Charles Erwin. By giving advertisers discounts for reserving space in several future issues at a time, Barrett hopes to reduce the workload on the business department and achieve a more reasoned balance between advertisements and copy.

Barrett's interest in journalism started in high school where he was a sports writer. He started writing for The Davidsonian the first week of his freshman year. From January to May of this year, Barrett served as assistant news editor, and he has been news editor since September. He is considering a career in journalism.

Kevin Wheelock and Julie Holding are both running for the Union presidency. (Brad Kerr)

Ashley and MacAulay will advise freshmen

By SANDY FOSSETT
Staff Correspondent

Juniors Barb Ashley and Clay MacAulay will soon step into the role of Freshman Advisors. Both said they do not really plan to change the part. Ashley and MacAulay will continue to emphasize many of the programs established by their predecessors, Anne Eglin and John Willingham. These programs include emphasizing and expanding the big sister and big brother programs, creating more interaction between freshmen and upperclassmen, and continuing the freshman hall council.

MacAulay believes the chief function of the Freshman Advisors is to work on the selection of hall counselors. Being hall counselors themselves, MacAulay and Ashley hope to be able to work closely with next year’s hall counselors and to make it a good year for the upcoming freshmen. Finally, MacAulay and Ashley stressed the need for doing anything possible to help the freshmen to be comfortable with the campus.

Union presidency and social veep are only contested posts

By SCOTT EBLIN
Staff Writer

Julie Holding and Kevin Wheelock will be vying for the position of Union President in next Tuesday’s campus-wide elections. JuniorsDavid McLean and Ben McCall will be running for the Union’s Social Vice-presidency. Both candidates were allowed to file candidacies late Wednesday night, after the Tuesday deadline. As a result, The Davidsonian was unable to contact either of them before press time.

By TOM ROTH
Staff Writer

There will be no election next week for any of the four Y Student Service Corps positions, because only one candidate filed for each office. Minor Sinclair is running unopposed for the presidency; Elizabeth Medlin for the vice-presidency; Katherine Allen for the office of Secretary; and Chip Legerton for the office of Treasurer.

Sinclair, a junior, has worked with the Y off and on since his freshman year. He has been a STEP tutor, a North Mecklenburg YMCA basketball coach, and the leader of the prison visitation program. Sinclair sees the Y’s major problems as a need for “greater involvement by students in the Y’s activities” and a need to alleviate the Y's “separation from campus life.”

Elizabeth Medlin, also a junior, has been a STEP tutor, a worker in the Depot Lunch program, and the Treasurer of the Y for 1979. Along with all the other Y activities, Junior Allen has been a STEP tutor and a member of the STEP coordinating committee. Allen plans to begin posting the minutes of Y meetings to make students more aware of the Y and its programs. Sophomore Legerton has been involved with the Y for a year and has worked on the Energy Conservation Block and with the Fall Fund Drive.

Sophomore Carol Impara is the only candidate for Union Co-Curricular Vice-President. She will be in charge of cultural and educational programs. Holding, a junior, said she is running for President because, “The Union needs strong student leadership. Student leadership is needed not only in representing the Union as a whole but in the ‘behind the scenes’ work that makes Union programs possible.”

“As Chairman of the Minorities Committee this past year, I feel I have gained a strong background in Union affairs and programs. Serving as a Union Board member and attending the Associated College Unions International Regional Conference has provided good experience for me,” she said.

In defining her goals for the Union, Holding stated, “The Union needs to be responsive to student needs and reevaluate types and numbers of committees which compose the Union Board. Some money that is spent is not distributed in proportion with actual student interests. I plan to find these interests by conducting a campus-wide survey in which students will rate the Union program.

“There needs to be stronger student leadership and decision making within the Union. This can be done by encouraging increased decision making from the various program committee members as well as the committee chairmen.”

When asked his reasons for running for Union President, Wheelock, also a junior, said, “I like to work with people and motivate them to do the jobs they need to do. The President can’t do all the work, but should be able to delegate his authority to other individuals and oversee the fact that they do their jobs. The President needs to be dynamic and concerned with the needs of the school and the interests of the students.”

Wheelock stated that his goal is “to have participation in the Union from all areas and factions of campus life. The Student Union should serve the diversity of the students. Without it, campus life would become a mindless academic quagmire.”

Wheelock plans to innovate Union programs through delegation of authority, to coordinate Patterson Court and Union activities to the fullest advantage of Davidson students, and to develop a promotional brochure about the Union. Wheelock has not worked in the Union, but feels his lack of experience will not hurt because he would “have time to get acquainted with the aspects of the job in the 7 weeks between Christmas and the start of the new term.” He went on to cite the fact that current President Jim Robertson, who “has filled his position well,” held no Union position prior to his term of office.

Publications races draw little interest

By AIDA DOSS
Staff Writer

Three campus publications have generated little interest in this year’s elections. Sophomore Ann Sanford, running for Wildcat Handbook editor, is unopposed. Julia Pidgeon and Dave Roberts, both juniors, are also unopposed in their bid to co-edit The Miscellany, Davidson’s literary magazine. And no one has filed a candidacy for the editorship of Quips and Cranks yearbook.

(See Publications, page 9)