Prof’s Statement:

All I have to say is this: I inspired that snow sculpture in front of Chambers, and I’m proud of
it. My thanks to L. Simon Barnes and the Student Extension of the Minority Expression Network.

Oh yeah -- take Humes, get drunk, fight fight fight, rah rah rah! Boogie!

Student Comments:
No kidding, “Dirty Dirk” has a penis envy complex or something. This guy's mind isn’t foul - it’s phallic! Good
slides, though.

The only reason Professor Labban grooms himself to appear twenty years younger than his actual age is to fool Sam
Spencer so that he won’t get decked when he turns sixty-five next year.

Drama & Speech

Barber

The first floor of Eu hall abounds with unusual commodities: a water fountain that conveniently shoots water up your nose,
a desk whose usefulness is the department’s recent topic of debate, and one Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., Chairman of
the “Drama” Department of Davidson College.

Dr. Barber likes to think of himself as God’s gift to Hodson Hall. “What would Hodson be without plays like
‘The Mountain Chorus’ and ‘The College Widow’?” Barber asked. In order to maintain such a high level of performances and
play selections, it is reported that ticket costs will increase 25 percent by April. “Traveling to New York is getting
so expensive these days,” Barber explained as he climbed into his new Monte Carlo. “How can I select a good
play if I haven’t seen it on Broadway?”

Keeping up with the playwrights is not Barber’s sole endeavor. Each term, Barber styles several new fashions from internationally unknown
hat shops. Whether Barber is trying to relive his days of youth and acting or merely attempting to cover up
his balding eagle has yet to be determined.

Among the most recent changes in the drama department’s structure, Barber is proudest of the Drama-major now available to students.
“We worked hard to get it,” said the director with a smile, “and we’re going to make the majors work
extra hard to keep it.” When asked how he planned to do this, Rupert replied, “We are thinking of issuing
two reviews and a final exam to Drama 21 students just to weed out the incompetent. We might even add
a 5-page paper or a special project for upper-level courses.” Two reviews and maybe a paper! Imagine that!

Cornell

Jean Cornell really does have a PhD, but her extreme modesty keeps her from telling anyone about it.

Gardner

Perhaps the one word that characterizes Dr. Joseph Gardner is emotion. Few creatures, other than rocks and trees, are able
to demonstrate the emotional control of Dr. Gardner.

The most recent addition to the Drama department, Gardner prides himself on the significance of his recently acquired doctorate degree
in scene design. “I really enjoy rearranging furniture,” Gardner explained.

Dr. Joe has entered the academic forum by enthusiastically teaching a variety of courses: one section of Drama 21, affectionately
known as the “pre-lunch siesta,” (or, 50 ways to while away your winter afternoons), and the ultimate crusher course in
the department, the Art of the Film. Gardner’s teaching style is noted for its animation, with exaggerated gestures, profoundly downsloped
eyebrows, and dramatic pauses.

Criticism has been leveled at Gardner’s approach to scene design study. Several have noted that the course is nothing more
than a glorified substitution for a high school shop course. Dr. Joe is quite outspoken on this topic: “C’mon now.
Shop is shop; there’s nothing glorified about it at all.” We couldn’t agree with you more, Dr. Joe (good compromise,
right?).

Economics

Avinger

After Randall Kincaid came back from D.C. and told Bobby about the blast he had in Washington, Professor Avinger is
now more eager than ever to get on the wagon and the government payroll. He faces a serious micro-economic dilemma:
he will have to trash his uncouth Triumph and buy a more fashionable pick-up.

Kincaid

Back at Davidson from his stint with the EPA, Dr. Kincaid is pushing the campus police to swap their gas-guzzling
squad cars for more economic VW Rabbits. He fails to realize that Captain Jackie Hughes cannot fit himself in one
of the sub-compacts.

Lindsey

Professor Lindsey, a graduate of the Country Club of Georgia, deals in statistics and accounting, with a little business law
thrown in for variety’s sake. His dry wit is surpassed only by his clockwork, tin-soldier appearance at the beginning of
each class.

Professor Lindsey loves to nail students in class but he is quick to add, “We're all pulling for you!” The
student will find that preparing assignments on schedule is an essential pain in the ass.

Reviews take approximately three days to complete but then the exam takes five, so what the hell.

Professor Lindsey is generally available in his dark and murky office for consultation. Most students agree that the textbooks for
his courses make lovely and impressive additions to their personal collections, pass or fail.

Nelson

Bost CORA! CORA! Dr. Nelson is often referred to by her liberal arts economics students as La belle dame sans
merci. The other yahoos at Davidson, who haven't taken advantage of the liberal arts curriculum, merely refer to her as
dame sans merci. And the pre-meds just say, in a pediatrical allusion, that Dr. Nelson was “weaned on a lemon.”
