Commercial airlines may be a boon to the American economy and transportation system, but sometimes they are nothing but a
pain in the you-know-what. There are some airlines that are better off left alone. I have a friend who was
catching a Southern flight out of Atlanta. Take-off was delayed because the plane just wouldn't start. He was shocked to
learn that the starting batteries were dead, and as he peered from his window seat he saw the Southern ground
crew drive up in a Volkswagen, pull out a set of cables, and jump-start the aircraft with the VW’s battery.

When I worked at a summer camp in western North Carolina, over fifty campers had to take the same flight
to Memphis. When all the kids and their belongings were accounted for, we marched them to the security checkpoint at
the designated gate. Some wiseacre passing through the metal detector said he had a bomb. We were stuck at the
airport for about ten hours while the plane was searched, and government agents had a nice little chat with everyone
who was to board the plane. We had seen those kids day in and day out for a month, were
ready to see them go, and some nut decided to play a practical joke. His joke stank.

Airlines’ most outrageous shortcoming is their negligence towards customers’ baggage. I once met a girl who flew to the Netherlands
on a KLM 747, landing at the Amsterdam terminal. She had flown to LaGuardia from Atlanta on Eastern and had
to catch a shuttle to Kennedy to leave for Europe. The nerds at LaGuardia didn’t send her luggage to Kennedy
as they should have. Instead, a suitcase went to Denver, a cosmetic case went to O’Hare, and her hanging bag
remained in New York. She was on a tour and had gone through four European countries before everything was finally
located. It was bad enough for her to wear the same clothes for over a week, but for an eighteen-year-old
girl to go that long without her make-up was psychologically devastating.

My most recent bad experience began two weekends ago. A friend of mine at Davidson wanted me to take him
to Douglas Municipal in Charlotte to pick up his brother, a Princeton freshman flying in from Newark on Eastern. The
flight was due in at two in the afternoon. It never left Newark. Radio malfunction. He caught another flight and
arrived four hours late. When it came time for him to fly back Sunday, he could not locate his return
ticket. He called up Sunday afternoon to say he must have left it in my car. Now I had a
date for Midwinters, a very special date, which meant I had to give my car a thorough cleaning. His ticket
might have been thrown out along with three weeks’ accumulation of Wall Street Journals in the back seat. A very
smelly search through the big green dumpster where I live revealed nothing. Somehow the ticket turned up at the lost
and found in the College Union. I think I'll stick to driving my car. It really is quicker than flying,
in the long run.

February 9, 1970—The Davidsonian—5

Repunting the Pig

It is fashionable in certain circles today to castigate organized sports in general and football in particular. Messrs. Peeples and
Haskell, judging from their comments in the January 26 issue of the Davidsonian, are not particularly fond of football, or
they consider it to be of little value. They made some points, however, that I think ought to be addressed.

First, there is this emphasis on winning. There is no doubt that there are some people in sports, as well
as in other areas, who act as if winning is the only thing. These “win at all costs” people may
cheat in various ways, put their players on drugs, intimidate officials, or boo and shout obscenities at their opponents. However,
if the people engaging in any sort of contest don't care whether they win or not, it usually turns out
to be not much of a contest. Instead, it is my observation that people tend to lose their concentration and
either try to show off or just become lackadaisical and sloppy if they do not care about the outcome of
what they are engaged in. In short, the contest is a waste of time. George Allen, Vince Lombardi, and other
successful coaches have noticed that many people don’t care about the quality oftheir work, and consequently their work is usually
not very good. He has done just about anything to win—this "just about anything" includes such things as: studying his
business thoroughly, so that he knows every aspect from top to bottom; giving players unwanted by other clubs, especially the
ones regarded as too old or troublemakers, second or third chances; emphasizing team play, kicking game, not given a high
priority by his competitors; and demanding that the people he works with be dedicated to doing their job right every
time, not to the exclusion of family, religion, or other pursuits necessarily (though I think he wouldn't mind that at
all), but to the exclusion of laziness.

Actually, it is, and I don’t see why I should. I see nothing distasteful in this, unless a person does
not wish to challenge him or herself, and certainly nothing to warp the American conscience. Second, there is the matter
of student-athletes. The ideal of the student-athlete, as exemplified so well by Chip Howell and Cliff Hester, is one that
should be applied to all students as well as all athletes. In ancient Greece, no man was considered to be
well-educated if he was not proficient in both academic and athletic pursuits. It is unfortunate that there is little official
encouragement for athletes to do well in academics, and it is equally unfortunate that there is little official encouragement for
students to do well in athletics. Those who do go above and beyond the call of usual expectations, so to
speak, are to be commended for it.

Third, there is the proper role of college sports, especially "big-time" football and basketball, to consider. First of all, let's
face it: big-time college football and basketball programs are, in a way, farm systems for professional teams, and I think
that the professional leagues ought to help pay for the benefits they derive from college sports programs. But is this
the, or a, proper role for college sports programs? A couple of years ago when Duke was considering de-emphasizing football,
a professor remarked that Duke University was not in the entertainment business, and it shouldn't be.

College sports not only provide a nice release for students and a community service, they also bring in money and
give many people an opportunity to acquire a good education that they would not have otherwise. Tom Osborne, the head
football coach at Nebraska, once remarked that the main difference between his job and those of professors was that his
students weren't allowed to fail. If more professors had the kind of objective standards that most coaches do, I think
there might very well be some better teaching and some better learning.

In addition, I have some specific suggestions that I think will improve college football and enable more teams to be
competitive with the traditional powers: (1) limit each school to a total of 40 scholarships at any given time; (2)
limit the size of the squad to 65 players or less; (3) have the NFL set up an endowment fund
with special emphasis on helping private schools; (4) limit the season to 10 games; (5) abolish spring practice and athletic
dormitories; (6) have stricter enforcement of current recruiting regulations; and (7) have stricter scholastic eligibility requirements. Most of all, it
is important to keep football in its proper perspective—that of a sport, a form of entertainment that happens to be
enjoyed by millions of people in this country. Football does, I think, promote discipline and teamwork (but not character necessarily),
and a sense of pride in achievement. Like other human endeavors, it can be and has been subjected to corruptions
and excesses. Many of these corruptions and excesses have come from football fans, who too often forget that they should
be fanciers instead of fanatics, which they become oftentimes as a result of excessive drinking before and during games. But
people who aren't football fanciers should not be fanatical about their lack of interest or their dislike, as I have
known some to be. I like football a lot, but I regard it as being neither virtuous nor immoral.

And finally, the game that the Steelers and Cowboys played in Miami this January was the National Football Super Bowl,
which refers to an excuse for show business people to be seen, for rich people to flaunt their wealth, and
for advertisers to sell their products. The Super Bowl is a media event of which a football game is a
rather small part.

Larry Morton is a senior from Harrisonburg, Va.
