6—The Davidsonian—April 27, 1979

Helen Abernethy and Aurie Hall have enjoyed meeting each other through the Y Service Corps Senior Citizen Visitation Program.

(Gregg Strader)

Vereen Bell Awards go to student writers and poets

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor
and SAM CRAWFORD

Brenda Boyle led a long list of Davidson students honored for their prose and poetry in an awards ceremony held
on Tuesday for the winners in the annual Vereen Bell competition and the R. Windley Hall Award for the most
promising writer in the freshman class.

Boyle received the first prize of fifty dollars for her entry, a collection of poetry and prose entitled, “Mrs. Pannapolas
and Other Works.”

Charles Erwin and Martin Clark were both awarded a twenty-five dollar second place prize. Erwin submitted a short story, “The
Letter,” for consideration while Clark entered a chapter from his novel called, “The Many Aspects of Mobile Home Living.”

Elizabeth Holmes and Patsy Daniels also tied for third place with their respective entries, “Intricacy and Other Poems,” and a
short story, “The Pipe.”

First through fourth place Honorable Mention Awards went to Margaret Miles, Karen White, Susan Dehoney, and Gary Hart in that
order. All four had submitted collections of poems for judging.

The R. Windley Hall Award was presented to Parks H. Snead, III by Professor of English Tony Abbott for his
short story, “Realization.”

Dr. Doris Betts, Assistant Dean in the College of Arts and Sciences for the Honors program at UNC-Chapel Hill, was
invited to judge all submissions and present the awards.

“Dr. Betts,” said Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, “gave good constructive criticism to the students. She wrote lots of
good comments on the manuscripts and had good communication with the students.”

Entries to the Vereen Bell Competition were screened by members of the English department before being sent on to Dr.
Betts for final judgment. She did not discover the authors’ identities until she had selected her preferences.

After the awards had been presented, Dr. Betts read two examples of her own work, short stories entitled, “This Is
the Only Time I'll Tell It” and “The Story of E.”

Y students meet old folks

By LINDA HOOPES
Staff Writer

“It’s a shame," said sophomore Aurie Hall, “the attitude our country has towards elderly people. We hide them away and
don’t know what to do with them, but they have so much to offer us.”

Aurie, along with 8 other Davidson students, has backed up that opinion with action by participating in the Y Student
Service Corps’ senior citizen visitation program. The program, which started this year, gives Davidson students the opportunity to get to
know local senior citizens on a one-to-one basis, and, reciprocally, gives the senior citizens the chance to become acquainted with
a young person—a welcome treat for many of them who are retired professors or schoolteachers and are used to being
around the “younger generation.”

The program is coordinated by Brigid O'Connor, director of the Depot, Davidson's senior citizen center, and Ann Garner, a Y
executive Board member. They pair each interested elderly person with a willing student, relying on word of mouth, student interest,
and a minimal amount of publicity to attract new people.

But once people are “in,” they generally stay there, for one of the major emphases of each student-senior citizen relationship
is its stability. Several have been going on all year, and most will continue next year, including Aurie’s weekly visit
with her “adopted grandmother,” Mrs. Helen Abernethy.

Aurie tells of her first visit: “I was really nervous—not sure what it would be like—and we ended up sitting
and talking for three hours!” What do they talk about in a typical visit? Anything that comes to mind—Mrs. Abernethy’s
children, her art (she did the directory cover design), Aurie’s plans for a trip to Ireland next year, and much
more. Because they are both busy, visits are not regular, but fit in whenever possible. Mrs. Abernethy sometimes fixes tea,
and Aurie hopes that they can start going more places together.

According to Aurie, her perspective on life has changed quite a bit since the beginning of her visits. “Whenever I
get nervous, I imagine myself looking back from sixty-five years of age, and I realize that it won’t matter then.
It’s really been helpful!”

Each relationship is unique—some students take their “adopted grandparent” shopping as well as helping with housework; some, like Aurie and
Mrs. Abernethy, just sit and talk.

“If You Didn't Read It In The Davidson Update, It Didn't Happen.”

If we students at The Davidsonian believed that, we wouldn't be publishing weekly. But we are. These are a few
of the things we do differently:

We follow the Wildcats. (The Update only lets you know when they win.) Unfortunately, you're missing a lot of news.

We print investigations, analyses, and opinions of program and policy. We want you to keep up with Davidson. The Davidsonian
will update you as we'll keep you informed—weekly.

A subscription to The Davidsonian costs only $6.00.

Name
Class of
Mailing Address
City, State, Zip
