6—The Davidsonian—October 5, 1979

The Campus Forum: Reactions To The Ratio Problem

Jim Stuckey

Despite Bob Gould’s wishes (“Blame It On The Ratio”), Davidson College will never be a leading institution of ‘social intercourse
and gala parties.” No matter how much we blame the ratio, the reality remains that Davidson’s small size and serious
academic atmosphere significantly dampen the available social opportunities in comparison with other institutions. What opportunities are available, however, are often
wasted by Davidson males in awe of the ever-menacing ratio. While many complaints are made in jest, beneath the humor
lies a gloomy acceptance of defeat. Yet this Homecoming, once again, there will be a substantial number of Davidson women,
from freshmen through seniors, available but unasked.

In truth, of course, this “fierce competition,” which supposedly even hinders male friendships, simply does not exist. Many students, both
male and female, do not actively seek to date for a variety of academic, financial, and social reasons. In many
other cases, there is no need to face the risks of formal invitations, for one often knows that the other
certain person or persons will find their own way to the Court parties or the 900 Room. At these events,
there will indeed be many single-sex student clusters, but this is chosen, natural behavior and not the forced product of
Gould’s mythical shortage of dancers and “fear of football players.” At none of these events is even close to every
female tied up or surrounded. On the contrary, even with the limited number of women already present, a Davidson male
is quite likely to see available dancing partners who he does not know, at least very well. The “social frustrations”
problem then created stems from the ages-old social game, and will remain long after Davidson has gone to equal access
admissions.

The other half of the ratio myth emphasizes the plight of the freshmen. Actually, no matter what the ratio is,
freshmen males (to varying degrees as individuals) are going to enter the game at some disadvantages in maturity, confidence, and
the number of people in their social pool. To pretend otherwise is to ignore both the impact of first-term Davidson
academics and the challenge of creating a new circle of friends, and to deny that Davidson achieves any success in
the personal development of its upperclassmen. Yet these very disadvantages make the female freshmen more desirable to upperclass males, who
naturally seek the excitement of a fresh face.

Much more importantly, this Davidson problem is a matter of principle, not of social life: what are we here for?
Is our ideal really Gould’s condescending concept of female “supply and demand,” so that we can “create a healthy and
balanced environment for a party?” Gould mentions only once that more qualified female applicants are denied admission to Davidson, as
if this was a minor side issue in our quest for an adequate supply of the female commodity. I doubt
those rejected applicants take the same view. It appears it is far too easy for the College Community to ignore
its own policy: Davidson openly discriminates against individuals because they are female, without having even a rationalization to defend its
action. Equal access admissions is an affirmation of human worth and equal opportunity, not a creation of a fifty-percent female
quota. Certainly, it will help ease—but not nearly solve—social problems at Davidson. Yes, Mr. Gould, the “Davidson chain” is only
as strong as its weakest link; and while—however unfortunate—we do not retroactively reforge our student body to eliminate our present
weak links, at least we can correct our process of selecting for the future.

Georgeann Vagt

As we approach Homecoming Weekend, Davidson coeds—that studious, select, and yes—even seductive group, once again suffer an ever-present syndrome: that
of the dateless, despised Davidson woman. Recently, at one of many late-night popcorn orgies, several coeds were speculating on that
elusive breed—the ‘Davidson gentlemen.’ Why is it that he is always the one portrayed as the poor, sexually frustrated All-American
who is but one of many khaki-clad figures forming a line out of Richardson dorm, vying for the privilege of
a date with a ‘decent-looking woman.’ If this is the case, it seems strange then, that the last time I
passed by Richardson on a Saturday night, quite a few lights were on.

Even closer to home is the Cannon late-night Saturday scene when an entire hall of upperclass coeds flock to the
door of the lucky lady of the week who does have a date. They pump her with questions. “You had
a date?” “It’s been so long—what was it like?”It like?’ But then what else is there for most coeds to
do? The point is that there is a huge misunderstanding between coeds and Davidson gentlemen. We are not all Beatrice
Bookworms who can’t conceive of casting aside our Humes books and horn-rimmed glasses for a night out with a guy.
Yes, my mother did send me to school for an education but when she did, it was not with the
understanding that I was joining a convent or bound for spinsterhood. Unbelievable as it may seem—even coeds would like to
date our male classmates. The consensus among Davidson gentlemen is that there aren’t enough girls to date, but chances are
that if you ask one of those gentlemen when was the last time he asked a girl out, he’d have
trouble remembering. You do have to ask before we can say yes. How do you know there aren’t enough to
go around if you don’t try to find out for yourself? Or do you enjoy sitting in your room on
a Saturday night either pining away for the HTH whose smiling face is framed on your desktop, or complaining about
the dearth of datable Davidson women when in fact, it’s been weeks since you've asked one out. Obviously, if the
social atmosphere is to improve and Davidson is to cease being a strange combination of an intellectual convent and monastery,
we must put aside our misconceptions about the availability of the opposite sex. Perhaps we as women must take the
first step, but wouldn’t it be nicer if we met each other halfway? Either a cure must be found for
the Dateless Davidson Student Syndrome or a motion should be made with Leland Parks that the E. H. Little Library
open its doors on Saturday nights.

Gould demonstrates his ignorance on the subject and his willingness to indulge in outdated clichés. While a few upperclasswomen still
feel this hostility, most empathize with the freshmen women’s sometimes difficult position. The overwhelming success of the Big Sister-Little Sister
program shows the concern of upperclasswomen. Gould bewails the unfortunate victimization of freshmen males forced to compete for the freshmen
women against upperclassmen who possess “a decided advantage.” Gould limits himself and underclassmen by excluding the possibility of socializing with
upperclasswomen. He also perpetuates a widely held myth that all freshmen women constantly date. Finally, Gould’s offensive language, resulting, no
doubt, from a narrow definition about the function of women, i.e., as property primarily for the pleasure of males, indicates
another obstacle to clear communication between the sexes. For instance, Gould’s desire to “cull the crop” of the best-looking “neophytes”
is a callous expression of women, useful only as objects whose supply should meet a demand. An equal access policy,
simply by allowing more women on campus, will not guarantee the change Gould has in mind for Davidson’s social life.
Only by altering the current attitudes prevalent among some Davidson males will the myth of a coed being “surrounded by
seven gaping football players” vanish. While an equal access admissions policy will solve some social problems, there are more important
reasons for its adoption. Ethically, the present sex-based quota system directly violates the College’s statement of purpose.

Karen Hester, et. al.
Chris Reasoner.

Why have prestigious colleges and universities including Williams and Princeton changed to an equal access admissions policy? To provide an
abundant supply of women for the social events on campus? Hardly. We agree with Bob Gould's premise in the last
Davidsonian that an equal access admissions policy should be instituted. It would alleviate some social misunderstanding which presently flourishes under
the present unequal sex-based quota. However, we do not see that his reasons for frustration result from the present system.
Indeed, narrow ideas about the role of women and men hamper his social facility, not the unequal sex ratio he
blames. Gould’s idea that all upperclasswomen are jealous of freshmen women clearly demonstrates his ignorance on the subject and his
willingness to indulge in outdated clichés. While a few upperclasswomen still feel this hostility, most empathize with the freshmen women’s
sometimes difficult position. The overwhelming success of the Big Sister-Little Sister program shows the concern of upperclasswomen.

In regards to Mr. Gould's article, “Blame It On The Ratio,” I anticipate that it will cause a great stir
amongst a lot of Davidson women. Yet before the official “burning in effigy” a few words in defense. The article
was merely a humorous attempt at pointing out the existing social status at Davidson. Whether or not the points made
as to the cause of this status were well-founded or not, it must be realized that they were not an
attempt to lower the boom of guilt. So those of you who don’t agree with the article take heart! If
nothing else, appreciate it for the fact that it was well written. There is no need to take offense to
something that one truly feels is a misrepresentation—unless it isn’t.
