Top: The Hot Box Girls from “Guys and Dolls” include, from left to right, Penny Mandell, Janet Ward Black, Gail Maynard, Betsy Holton, and Karen Weir. Bottom: The craps players (left to right) include Lana Sims, John Richards, Lyman Collins, and Tom Bessellieu. 

Guys and Dolls here next two weekends.
By PETER HAIRSTON
Staff Writer

Straight from the streets, saloons, and sewers of New York City, a cast of thirty-four gamblers, dance hall girls, and religious zealots will take you back in time to the Fabulous Fifties. Directed by Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., and accompanied by a 23-piece orchestra under Dr. William D. Lawing, they are ready to sing and dance their way into your hearts.

“The show has style, humor, pathos, and songs that you can go away from the performance singing. It will be a fun musical,” said Barber. Performances will be held on April 26, 27, 28, and on May 2 through 5 beginning at 7:30 on weeknights and 8:15 on weekends. Tickets are on sale at the box office in the Fine Arts Building (2-5 p.m. weekdays), and at various locations around campus.

Davidson's “Guys and Dolls” is a rollicking rendition of the 1950 Broadway hit musical, which ran for three years straight. It won the New York Drama Critics’ Circle Award, and received wide acclaim for its integration of music and lyrics with a substantial plot. The show features a variety of songs (“The Oldest Established Permanent Floating Crap Game in New York,” “I'll Know,” “I’ve Never Been in Love Before,” and “Luck Be a Lady”), and dances (in Havana by wild and crazy Cubans, and in a New York sewer by the crapshooters). Most of all, however, “Guys and Dolls” is a love story, charming and romantic, involving the most unlikely of couples: Sarah and Sky, and Adelaide and Nathan.

Leading roles are played by Cindy Faulkenberry, Eddie Pollock, Gail Maynard, Lana Sims, and Tom Besselieu. They are ably supported by a chorus of crapshooters, “Hot Box” girls, and others who lend “Guys and Dolls” a degree of quality and depth outstanding for a student production.

Preparations for this production have required a massive effort on the parts of directors, members of the cast and orchestra, and many others. Dr. Barber is the director; Dr. Joe Gardner is the Technical Director; and Dr. Lawing the Musical Director. The spectacular sets have been designed by Senior Steve Cline as his thesis project for the Center for Special Studies. Mrs. Nancy Gardner is responsible for choreography, a remarkable achievement considering the large number of crapshooters with ten big toes. Mrs. Barber has created the costumes. Mrs. Linda Warren has helped the leads with their singing. Finally, there are all those students, in drama classes and otherwise, who have helped in so many ways.

Renew Artists Series tickets now
By JAMIE ASHMORE
Staff Writer

Students who have an Artist Series season ticket for this year can renew that ticket for next year at the same amazing $2.00 you paid for this year’s series. Renewals will be going on in the Union this week. Students will be able to keep the seat they had this year or to put their name on a list for better seats when the renewal period ends. Next year’s series will include the fabulous Ohio Ballet and the world-famous opera star Roberta Peters with the Charlotte Symphony. The complete series of four performances will be filled out soon. This year’s was completely sold out. Well over 100 renewals have been made already, so renew your ticket soon.

April 27, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

Dressage judge heads barn
By JEFF MCARN
Staff Writer

There is a new flavor in the air out at the barn. Davidson is slowly edging closer and closer, sniffing, and liking what it smells. Spring is here, that’s true, but that is only part of the scent. The rest of it has something to do with hamburgers grilled on an open fire down by the pond. Or the handy cooking of Mrs. Black in the early morning hours. Or the fresh sunlit air that breezes by the riders as they explore a new trail ride. Davidson horse enthusiasts are finding more excuses to forego the weekend work.ethic in favor of some of the new happenings at the riding stables. The last weekend in March, a riding clinic was held at the barn under the direction of Mrs. Eldon S. Dummit, mother of Virginia Dummit, Davidson student ('80), intimately involved with the riding program. The clinic was fortunate to have access to the wealth of knowledge and experience in Mrs. Dummit for the weekend. For the past ten years, she has been working with two internationally known equestrians from Austria, associated with the Spanish Riding School. She owns a judge's card for Dressage—that is, she is qualified to judge Dressage events, a specific technique of riding, in official competition. Each participant in the clinic had the opportunity for two private, 45-minute lessons with Mrs. Dummit, one on Saturday and the other on the Sunday of that weekend.

Sunday morning, the participants were out on the trail at eight o’clock. During an hour of roving through many of the three hundred acres of available pasture and woodland, the group had a chance to work on some of the tips they picked up in their lessons. They also had a good chance to work up an appetite. It was a good thing, too, because Mrs. Black had rustled up a king-sized ranch breakfast fit even for the likes of Hoss Cartwright. Grits, scrambled eggs, bacon, sausage, home-made biscuits—it was enough to make the horses grimace at the thought of the additional tonnage.

Mrs. Black is the able-bodied cook of Mr. Jim Howard, the able-bodied benefactor who has made the whole riding stable dream come true for Davidson students. The riding program also depends on donations from independent sources for its stock of horses. Much of the program’s success is indebted to the generosity of its horse donors. The riding program is making strides, however, toward becoming more self-sufficient. By this summer, according to Virginia Dummit, the program will be raising enough money to cover the salaries of both the manager and assistant manager at the barn.

Virginia will be spending the summer at the barn, and assuming its management while Kathleen takes a well-deserved break. Kathleen says, smiling, that her summer plans involve “a lot of riding.” For Virginia, there will be a good bit of work between her riding sessions. While attempting to promote the summer riding lessons, to be taught by Pam Brackett and herself, Virginia has plans to condition some of the horses for fox hunting for students to enjoy next fall. “This involves a lot more jumping and training for the horses,” Virginia explains. “We plan to build jumps on some of the trails.”

Each trail ride is followed by a cookout and campfire, neither of which can be considered run-of-the-mill. That is unless you always have red wine with your hamburgers. Coming soon is a marathon, overnight trail ride of seven to ten miles over choice Mecklenburg County backwoods. Yes, things are changing out at the barn. There is new fencing around the permanent pasture, split rail and woven wire. A new Dressage ring is almost finished. Come on out, the times are great. You can’t miss it; just follow your nose.

Last Ambassador to Taiwan will speak here Monday about Formosa

By JEAN SORACCO

Leonard Unger, the last U.S. Ambassador to Taiwan, will speak at Davidson College at 8:15 p.m. Monday, April 30, on “Taiwan and its Future Prospects.” The public is invited to his talk in the 900 Room of the College Union.

Unger was Ambassador to Taiwan from 1974 until the United States officially recognized the People’s Republic of China in 1978. His diplomatic career has involved a number of sensitive Asian posts, including Thailand in 1958-62 and 1967-73, Laos 1962-64, and chairman of the Vietnam coordinating committee of the State Department 1965-67.

After graduating from Harvard in 1939, he worked two years with the National Resources Planning Board and joined the State Department Foreign Service in 1941. He helped settle the Italy-Yugoslavia boundary in the Paris Peace Conference in 1946, was adviser to Trieste in 1950-52, and was assigned to the NATO Command in Naples in 1952-53. He...