10—The Davidsonian—March 23, 1979

Colloquium examines science and values

By MARGARET HUNTER
Features Graphics Editor

Have you ever been unable to get out of a new kind of seat belt and wondered if mankind really controls the machines anymore?

Have you ever thought about the fact that man’s new technological power is forcing him to make decisions which he has never had to deal with before... and that the ethics which guide such decision-making are going to have to be more sharply scrutinized...?

The Spring Colloquium will deal with such issues. This series of lectures given by Davidson professors and a guest speaker will usually meet at 4 pm Wednesday afternoons in the 900 Room. A complete schedule of the series appears on page 16.

Last week Professor of Philosophy John Young opened the first session, “Moral Dilemmas in Science,” with the story of a doctor examining a boy’s eyes. The doctor held up his hand and asked the boy how many fingers were showing. “Four,” said the boy. “How many?” asked the doctor. “Four,” said the boy. The doctor looked perturbed. “I can’t count any higher,” explained the boy. Young concluded that our knowledge of ethics often limits our ability to make decisions.

Young created an “ethical map” by distinguishing between three basic positions.

The first was epitomized by a comment of Lewis Carroll’s bellman in The Hunting of the Snark. “Just the place for a snark!” exclaimed the bellman three times, as the hunters began a search on a certain island. “What I tell you three times is true!” the bellman went on. Young described “snarkism” as the position which says an action is ethical if an individual, a group, or a group says God says the action is ethical. While snarkism deals handsomely with individual matters of taste, there is difficulty welding the multitude of snarkish values into a coherent social policy.

Second, there is utilitarianism, which judges an action by its consequences. While attempting to be more objective than snarkism, the utilitarians’ cost/benefit debates are limited often by the uncertainty of risks a certain action will entail (there are many examples in medical research), and the old question of do-ends-really-justify-means. Utilitarians also run into the problem of whether it is fair that those experimented upon pay for the benefits received by others.

Thirdly, there are the intuitionists who claim that rightness is as self-evident to an intelligent, informed, mature individual as the statement two plus two equals four. For example, the value of human life need not be questioned any further than a mathematical equation, not because both can be proved true by similar methods, but because both are unquestionably true to the informed individual. The problem here is that the intuitionists disagree about which values are unquestionable, and which take priority.

Young concluded that while no stance is completely adequate, each has its own strengths and must be considered, for the alternative—no stance—is untenable.

Yesterday’s lecture, given by Professor of History David Shi and entitled “Small is Beautiful—and American,” dealt with the contemporary trend of voluntary simplicity and its historical roots. Evidence that this is a growing trend ranges from the fact that articles on simplicity are beginning to appear in corporate publications, advertisers are beginning to sell products using the ideas of quality and simplicity, and social research centers are finding shifts in values from material security towards self-expression and quality of life.

While the Stanford Research Institute’s 1977 study of the trend reveals that most voluntary-simplifiers today are “young, white, well-educated, and from suburban or urban areas,” giving the movement something of a faddish appearance, the trend is not without historical precedence in American thought. Supporters among the religious movements have included the Pilgrims, Quakers, Shakers, Amish, Mennonites, and others; among secular writers there have been Thomas Jefferson, Ralph Waldo Emerson and, of course, Henry David Thoreau.

Thoreau has been particularly influential in the movement, and continues to be popular today. Though he didn’t maintain the radically simplified lifestyle of Walden Pond for much longer than two years, he never gave up his belief that the simpler life was better. His continuing influence today is shown by the fact that a California company, which records books on cassettes for commuters with tape decks in their cars, reports that the most popular selection is none other than Thoreau’s Walden.

---

ACTIVE SPORTSWEAR for the ACTIVE STUDENT

If you missed our GRAND OPENING, don’t despair. Cut out our symbol above* and bring it in any time during the next week for a FREE draft. *one to a customer

HOURS: Monday-Wednesday 4 p.m. until; Thursday-Saturday 1 p.m. until; Sunday 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.

Happy Hour: Monday-Saturday, opening until 6 p.m.

---

For more information, contact us at New York State (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-5080.

CITY STATE