j meinen , : _ THE DAVIDSONIAN: ‘An Avol

The offensive and damaging contents of the supplement in last week's publication of The Davidsonian were tasteless and inexcusable. We extend to the college community, and especially to the faculty, our deepest and sincerest apologies for the pain inflicted by the supplement. Even the most sincere apology cannot compensate for the harm which has been done, but we are truly sorry.

Charles Erwin has accepted full responsibility and has resigned the editorship. His error was not in willfully maligning certain members of the faculty, but in exercising poor judgment. He has certainly paid for his mistake by resigning a position into which he put so much time, effort, and commitment. Davidsonian staff members who contributed to the supplement have been asked to make personal apologies to the professors they covered. Each student surely recognizes the unfortunate effects of the whole incident, and the staff's awareness of its responsibility to the community has been renewed and increased. In short, the Davidsonian staff has learned a great lesson.

The constructive thing to do now is to pull together and begin to rebuild. We have made that commitment, and we reaffirm our commitment to the community. What is needed now is a strengthening of good relations between the faculty and the students. The recent open discussions concerning self-scheduled examinations manifested the true respectful and cooperative spirit which exists between the students and faculty at Davidson. Monday’s open meeting before the Media Board indicates a willingness to preserve and show student respect for the faculty. In all likelihood, there have been few times when The Davidsonian has had the support of the entire college community. Perhaps now more than ever, we need this very support. With community service as our constant goal, our first objective is to regain community confidence in this newspaper. A great mistake has been made, and we regret the harm which has been done. We can only go on from here, and only with your help.

The Power of Print

Editor's note: This editorial by Editorial Page Editor Ed Williams appeared in the April 12th issue of The Charlotte Observer.

The uproar over the Davidson College student newspaper's lampooning of faculty members is a reminder that what seems hilarious in dorm-room bull sessions may seem humorless, tasteless, even cruel, when printed for public reading in a newspaper. The cause of the uproar is The Davidsonian’s description of faculty members in “A Guide to Courses at Davidson,” published this week. We doubt that lasting harm was done to any of the professors by the newspaper's remarks about their personalities, mannerisms, and purported sexual preoccupations. Still, many of the descriptions do go beyond rough campus humor into tastelessness. A few professors have a right to be outraged over what was said about them, and even those who don't will no doubt claim that right and exercise it vigorously.

Charles Lloyd, an English professor whom the newspaper called “insane,” among other things, put the matter in a perspective that others at Davidson would do well to consider: “Satire is tricky stuff, the most difficult form there is. There wasn’t any malice in it. The editor...

(See Observer, =? perce cy So Oita eacoat: BLT thd ner oat PO a 2 a 9

The Campus Forum

Athletics

To the Editor:

A number of points raised by Jeff Frank in his letter to the Editor of March 30th call for comment and clarification.

1) The harassment of other students by football players has been a persistent problem for a number of years. To imply that there have been merely isolated incidents...Recently is to misunderstand or to misstate the nature of the problem, and coaches would do well not to ignore and neglect such situations if they expect support. Lest there be any misunderstanding, let me add that the football players (and other athletes) whom I have taught here have been gentlemen and often exhibit unusual discipline in their work. For the actions of a minority to be ignored to the point where the reputations of the majority suffer is deplorable.

2) I have been fully aware that the Sports Illustrated article on basketball recruiting contains no allegations of NCAA rule infractions and a number of inaccuracies. With no reason to doubt the integrity of our basketball coaching staff, I nonetheless feel that in trying to compete against teams, we must of necessity resort to legal techniques of recruiting which are very distasteful to many of us as well as extraordinarily expensive for a small college.

3) Coach Frank's understanding call for more teaching hours is inappropriate. I am teaching 13-14 hours a week at present and doubt this is unusual.

4) Thoughtful people who examine the athletic budget just published in the April Update are unlikely to find our estimate of $1.3 million “laughable.” Those 50 percent of our students participate in Phys. Ed. classes each term, and yet the net expense for this required activity is apparently only 11 percent of the total athletic expenses of the College. These figures, together with the fees charged for participation in some intramural sports at Davidson, help to explain some of the criticism of our football and basketball programs.

5) For students to make anyone’s job at Davidson a political issue in an election is contemptible, and Coach Frank's expression of this concern over this matter is well put.

6) Davidson College needs good publicity through its sports program, and as a final thought, I would suggest Tennis as a good choice for more emphasis—seriously.

Mark I. Davies
Classics Department

SAE Rundown

To the Editor:

In a time when we hear so much about the destructiveness and irresponsibility of fraternities engaged in boisterous springtime activities, we would like to present another view. Having heard about the annual Rundown of the SAEs and the tradition of showering off in Basement Cannon afterwards, we had initial misgivings about what would take place on our hall. However, we were pleasantly surprised. The SAEs’ conduct was not only friendly, but considerate and well in control. We want to express our appreciation to those who returned to scrub down the showers and mop the hall floor, and to all the SAEs for their admirable conduct in general. And last, but not least, we'd like to say thanks but no thanks to the guys who offered us the use of their showers.

Sincerely,
Cannon Basement

P.S. Those SAEs wanting to claim their underwear may pick them up anytime before Friday noon. After Friday noon, any authentic 1979 SAE rundown underwear should just contact us.

Presidential Election

To the Editor:

I am pleased to submit the official results of the election for Davidson College President:

Samuel R. Spencer, Jr. .....1353

I give my thanks to all those who voted in this important election and offer my congratulations to Dr. Spencer.

The Student Extension of the Minority Expression Network
L. Simon Barnes, Chairman

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200 words) and clarity.