Notes on Students Cannon Dormitory
By BILL PEEPLES Executive Editor

Davidson men have not lived in Cannon Dormitory for two years now, although there may be a few who would like to. These days, freshman women inhabit the place, and a lot of things have changed since “the good old days.” Some of the dorm’s physical features that were originally intended for male occupancy remain unchanged. For example, each bathroom still has a urinal.

According to hall counselor Ann Eglin, who lives on the fourth floor, “girls have planted flowers in some of the urinals.” Others are used by the janitors “for washing out mops,” she added.

Gone, perhaps sadly and certainly reluctantly, are the days of massive water fights that left Cannon looking like the Mississippi had come roaring through. At the beginning of the school year in particular, different halls in Cannon had a tendency to attack one another with trash cans filled with water and other unmentionable substances.

As time progressed, halls grew braver, and would challenge the other freshman males in Richardson and the girls in Watts. In one particular battle, the girls from Watts made it all the way to Cannon’s fourth floor. When they tried to descend, the guys on the third floor stripped naked and flooded into the stairwell. The blushing women hid their eyes with their hands and were thoroughly drenched by the time the exhibitionists ran back to their rooms.

The “yelling wars” with Sentelle were a blast, too, even though innocent non-participants had a hard time getting to sleep. On one occasion, there were so many firecrackers and bottle rockets flying through the air that two Davidson police cars actually showed up. When they entered on foot from the basement level, some brave soul blasted them with a fire extinguisher.

One of the greatest temporary delights for the guys living on the west side was the omnipresent red light shining from a room on fourth Watts. One courageous girl had opened up what she called a massage parlor. Unfortunately, she had to close up shop after a couple of weeks due to a lack of customers.

Many residents failed to turn in their keys at the end of the 1976-77 school year. One can only wonder if fifty years from now, as dirty old men, they will return to visit the lovely lasses living in their old rooms.

Early Notification
By LINDA HOOPES Staff Writer

Many new faces appeared suddenly on campus Thursday evening. The visitors are high school seniors who were accepted under Davidson's early notification plan. Early notification is granted by the Admissions Office to the top portion of each year’s applicants. The 130 high school seniors will remain until Saturday. Hopefully, they will choose to attend Davidson next year.

Only 35 percent of last year’s target group enrolled, a smaller percentage than that from the entire applicant pool. According to David Barnard, prime mover behind the weekend, the target group consists of the applicants “that we really want.” 

The ‘admissions recruitment weekend’ committee hopes to increase this percentage of outstanding applicants—ideally to 100 percent, but hopefully to 80 percent,” says an optimistic Barnard. Committee members began working before spring break in order to make the weekend successful. Steve Porter, in charge of correspondence, sent invitations to the 300 early notification students and expects about 79 men and 49 women to come. Housing chairman David Waddill has placed all 130 visitors with students.

The visitors will attend classes in their areas of interest. Diana Pierce has also arranged a “Davidson Overview” presentation by students and faculty, and a pre-professional lecture by four professors. Social events, however, are the main focus of the weekend. As Barnard puts it, “the students are the best recruiters and should spend time talking with these people.” 

Taylor has also arranged a game period to “introduce themselves to these people” and a reception with the '79-80 hall counselors. Funded by $1000 from the Senate and $1000 from the admissions department, the weekend is a trial venture, supported jointly by the students, faculty, and administration.

Linda Warren led the Women’s Chorus on a successful spring tour.Staff Writer

This year’s chorus can be characterized by one thing: hard work. The work paid off during spring break when the chorus went on tour. The twenty-two girls spent four days in Virginia on the First Annual Women’s Chorus tour. After five concerts and lots of traveling, the girls were exhausted. But the tour had been a great success. Besides improving the quality and reputation, the tour also brought the members of the young chorus closer together and helped to foster a lively group spirit. The women’s chorus concert tomorrow night is the culmination of literally years of hard work.

Three years ago, the women’s chorus was a handful of female students who practiced in DCPC under student direction. Then last year, the music department hired Linda Warren, an experienced director from Charlotte, to direct the women. Since then, it’s been upscale for the group. Now that the chorus has perfected its performance, it is ready for Davidson’s discriminating audience. The concert will be held Friday, March 23 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Selections for this Friday’s performance include Weelke’s The Nightingale, Kodaly’s Evening Song, a medley from Finian’s Rainbow, and Lift Thine Eyes by Mendelssohn. It’s a concert that is a “must” and an evening of enjoyable entertainment for all.

‘Rough Mix’ offers variety of smooth and polished songs

By JIM VITHA
Staff Writer

Peter Townsend gained fame from being the guitar player of the Who, but now he’s gone even further. In collaboration with Ronnie Lane, Townsend has released an album that merits attention from music listeners who enjoy rock and roll, country, guitar instrumentation, classical overtones, and even gospel music. The album is entitled Rough Mix and that is what the album may be. It is a mixture of varying sounds but through the ingenuity of Townsend, Lane, and producer Glyn Johns, the album has very smooth, polished songs. It is quite enjoyable if one wants simply to listen to an album that does not jar the senses.

Ronnie Lane is a former member of the Faces, a group which spawned such stars as Rod Stewart and Rolling Stone guitarist Ronnie Wood. His Faces influence is very prevalent. In addition, Ian Stewart, sometimes referred to as the sixth Rolling Stone, plays piano. The showpiece of the album is undoubtedly Street in the City, a Pete Townsend song employing an orchestral score in addition to the written song, a violin, a viola, a cello, and a bass. The lyrics portray a somewhat cynical look at life in a city backed up with vivid melodic impressions from the strings. The song is sometimes hypnotic and at times quite stimulating. The last song on the album — Till the Rivers All Run Dry, is a virtual gospel piece, employing a vocal backing group, and a melody comparable to any church hymn. Eric Clapton plays on this song, along with John Entwistle of the Who. Compiled together, these songs and others make for a professionally put together album which has a polished sound. The album may have too varied a sound for a listener with one strain of music in mind. This could be a problem; however, enough listening to the album should result in one purely enjoying Rough Mix.

Bill Peeples talks about pop films

By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

“I’m curious to see how animation and really brutal horror go over with the Davidson audience,” said Bill Peeples, Chairman of the Pop Films Committee, about some of the movies that will be shown this spring. There will be the largest variety of films presented in a long time. The type of films include war, horror, comedy, and ratings range from G to R. Bill and the other members of the committee want “to keep the movies clean in order to accommodate community members’ families.”

“I’ve received criticism because we’re showing nine $500 movies in a row first and second quarter, the Union subsidy has been exhausted.” The committee is dealing through a rental company this spring. The rent of the movies, therefore, is considerably less than the catalog prices. In addition to lower rental fees, the committee also receives free publicity posters, and cartoons and preview reels to show at the beginning of every movie. The cost of admission has been reduced as well.

(Personal letters have been sent out to Peeples. page 15)