**Widespread Rumors of Neglect**  
*Edward Farrell*

This is out of character for me, because I would much rather talk than write. (I can hear the football players saying, "He would rather talk than do most anything!") However, I have concluded that the best way to reach the Davidson community is to have my thoughts appear in The Davidsonian.

I had an interesting experience recently when I participated in an open-end meeting. The size of the group present, plus the enthusiasm displayed when certain aspects of the football program were discussed, pleased me. I hope that the exchange of ideas concerning some controversial areas was enlightening to those of you who attended as it was to me. As I reflect on the session, one point is perfectly evident: communication is invaluable. With that concept as my primary motivation, I offer these thoughts.

Included in the basic philosophy of the football program is a strong belief that participants in the program are an integral part of the college community. This is stated in the preface to our playbook, which goes to every player, and its importance is stressed. Unfortunately, as often happens in groups, a few members fail to comply. In order to get stronger, the group must rectify this situation. We realize that being part of a particular program does not give one the right to intimidate others or the right to damage property. The entire student body, plus professors, staff, and administrators share the responsibility of seeing that violations of human rights do not occur. The football players, as members of the student body, and the coaches, as staff personnel, are inexcusably negligent if they fail to assist in this area.

Now I would like to discuss an additional responsibility, one that has had far too little attention, and one that can do irreparable damage to Davidson College if neglect continues. Rumors are running rampant on this campus and little, if anything, is being done about it. I am sure some of the rumors are based on truths, but many are based on half-truths or untruths. We cannot allow individuals to be intimidated and we cannot allow human rights to be violated. Appropriately, we must be just as adamant in discouraging the spread of falsehoods. Much has been said about the mental anguish that results from feeling threatened, and I agree that this can be trying. We must also consider the fact that false rumors can cause mental anguish. A reputation is a very fragile thing; once damaged, it can take a long time to heal, often longer than the time required to heal a physical impairment. The consequences of having a poor reputation can be serious; if the image is undeserved, the situation is tragic.

Recently the pros and cons of the honor code have been topical. I feel that this code is one of our great strengths; it helps to distinguish us from many other institutions, and a concerted effort should be made to preserve it. When an honor code violation occurs, the individual or individuals involved must face the consequences. Who you are or what you do should have no bearing on the penalty imposed. I ask you to consider the possibility that some people who are outspoken proponents of the honor code are, in fact, violators. Is initiating or spreading a rumor honorable? If the rumor you start or perpetuate is based on half-truths or untruths, are you not violating the honor code? It seems to me quite obvious that to tell a lie or to repeat a lie about an individual or a program is dishonorable. You may dislike a person or a program, and you may want a rumor to be true, but unless it is substantiated, reporting the rumor as fact is morally wrong. This is an especially dangerous practice when the person giving his blessing to the rumor is in a position of authority such as a student leader, faculty, or staff member.

I would like to go a step further in developing this train of thought. Davidson College professes its Christian commitment. It is certainly not Christian to damage property or to infringe on the rights of one’s fellow man. Is it not just as un-Christian to tarnish the image of an individual by starting or spreading rumors?

In our Statement of Purpose, we say that "...Davidson is dedicated to the quest for truth..." Are we living up to this statement or are some of us being hypocrites? Are we repeating rumors because they suit our personal beliefs, without first checking their validity? I am sure that some will conclude that I am making too big an issue of this problem. However, one can find a good deal of support for my thesis that rumors can do great damage to individuals or institutions. Historically, the spreading of...Rumors have been a tactic used to discredit those with opposing views. The solution to the problems I have discussed is easy to state but difficult to implement. However, to be just, we must be certain of the facts we present. Adding to or deleting information to advance our own personal feelings is unacceptable; the truth is what must be reported. As the recipient of information about abuses of human rights, destruction of property, or violations of the honor code, our charge is the same. Be sure that the information is accurate and proceed accordingly. There is a strong temptation for all of us to accept what we hear if it supports our feelings. Knowledge of its accuracy has little to do with our willingness to repeat gossip when the gossip champions a cause we believe in or defames a cause to which we are unsympathetic. Obviously, we all have a right to our personal beliefs, but our beliefs do not alter the truth. People who are in a position of authority must be particularly sensitive to this situation. They must work diligently to right a wrong, to defend our honor code, and uphold our code of conduct. In addition, it is imperative that an attempt be made to protect all members of the community from the spreading of unjust accusations. Authorities must seek the truth and, until accurate facts are presented, they should never give credence to a rumor by repeating it. Our Davidson College community is not perfect, but, in my opinion, this is a very desirable place to pursue a degree or to live and work. We can make it even better by being adamant in defending personal and community rights. Let’s be truly honorable and be sure that included in these rights is the protection from rumors which can permanently damage the reputation of an individual or a group.

Edward G. Farrell is head football coach at Davidson College. A 1956 graduate of Rutgers, Farrell came to Davidson in 1974 from Bridgeport University. Farrell’s record before coming to Davidson was 34-9.

Gia Partain

Spring, Softball, and Beer

Bill Peeples

A sacred American tradition, for several years an endangered species at Davidson, finally became extinct here last week. The campus police have declared martial law on beer consumption at Davidson baseball games. This announcement was the last straw in a controversy that began a year ago when Director of Physical Education Sterling Martin outlawed the drinking of malt beverages at intramural softball games. To enforce this new regulation, Martin and his beer squad patrol springtime softball in lavish golf carts. Players have to take off their hats for inspection, to see if seven-ounce beer cans are under them. The IMAC regulation has drastically reduced the amount of beer that goes down the hatch, with hypocritical results. Nowadays, the infield cry is “Hey everybody, huddle up! Team meeting!” and like wow, they get high on a reefer. In short, beer that is legal everywhere else in North Carolina is taboo at softball games. Likewise, marijuana that is illegal everywhere else in North Carolina is condoned on the IMAC fields. I really don’t care whether some contestants get high; but to deprive those who don’t smoke dope of their right to beer is grossly unfair. True, beer drinkers litter; and unlike pot, beer cans are not biodegradable. Nonetheless, what we face now is a ridiculous double standard that should not be tolerated.

The issue over beer drinking at intercollegiate baseball games is another matter entirely. Over a hundred people were drinking beer at the March 17 doubleheader against Wingate College. Most were behaving themselves, enjoying the game and the beautiful spring weather. Unfortunately, a few became intoxicated and did wrong things. While shouting obscenities at the opposing team is common, other behavior such as throwing golf balls at opposing outfielders and urinating in public cannot be tolerated. Revoking this privilege is certainly one solution to the problem of disruptive behavior, but is it the most equitable one? Last week, the faculty decided that students can and will maintain the self-scheduled examination system as an honored institution. The vast majority of those who drink beer at baseball games are upset, even distressed. They have no opportunity to prove that they can take it upon themselves to control the drinking conduct of other students. The decision to outlaw baseball beer consumption is a serious affront to many an honor-bound student. It is indeed unfortunate that a handful of students at one event conducted themselves in a manner that adversely affected the rest of us. It is even more unfortunate that an element of trust between students and authorities has not only been questioned but destroyed. If this privilege is restored, I believe several students will crawl under...

Bill Peeples is Executive Editor of The...