2—The Davidsonian—January 19, 1979

By CAROLE LOPTSON
News Editor

A 1977 Davidson graduate, Patrick “Bo” Baskin, Jr., has won a 1979 Rhodes Scholarship, making him Davidson’s nineteenth Rhodes Scholar. Baskin, who is interested in the energy problem, plans to study economics at Oxford University, England. Of 32 Rhodes Scholars chosen from the United States this year, Baskin learned of his award in January. The scholarship will cover expenses for two or three years of study at Oxford.

A Phi Beta Kappa member and 1976 SGA President, Baskin has “enormous energy and organizational ability,” according to Professor of History Brown Patterson, local advisor for the Rhodes Scholarship. Baskin, nominated two years ago, was selected on the basis of interviews, his application, and transcript from campus, state, and district committees. Coty Pinckney, ’78, and Maria Patterson, '79, were also nominated as semi-finalists but were not selected as Scholars.

Baskin is currently at the Yale School of Organization and Management, involved in a combination business school and public policy graduate program stressing practical application and decision-making. At Oxford, Baskin plans to study theoretical economics, he said, “to help me be a better practitioner.” Baskin does plan to return to Yale to complete his M.A. after he receives a B. Phil. from Oxford in about two years. Eventually, Baskin said, “I expect to do a little of both public administration and business. There are all sorts of ideas running through my head. None of them is developed enough for me to say ‘this is what I want to do.’”

However, Baskin, who grew up in Midland, Texas, a heavy oil production area, hopes to be involved in dealing with the energy problem. He spent last summer as an energy consultant to an electrical contracting company. “I’m very interested in—it sounds sort of corny, I guess—service. I think you can do this as a businessman, or in government, or in energy.”

Baskin spent a year after graduating from college as headmaster and instructor at a secondary school in Kenya, where he raised money for an endowment fund to provide new classrooms, laboratories, and opportunities for more children to attend the school. Baskin explained, “We didn’t have enough school fees so we had to send kids home who couldn’t pay.” He praised Davidson and said it helped him “see things from a multitude of perspectives. The entire Davidson experience was a very rich experience.”

However, he sees three shortcomings of his experience at Davidson. He wishes Davidson had had more non-academic role models and explained, “I really wasn’t seeing anyone I could identify with or emulate as business and political leaders.” He also said he “didn’t feel anything at Davidson was making students come to grips with what they were going to do after college soon enough.” Finally, Baskin feels that “Davidson’s values in lots of ways emphasize someone being sharp or clever. When you leave, people don’t really care if you're sharp—it’s not enough.” Baskin emphasized that he thinks Davidson is trying to correct these problems.

Endowment
$250,000 grant to go to new course and retirement community research

By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

Davidson students will be offered a course in marine biology as one benefit of the recent $250,000 grant from the Duke Endowment. Although final approval for the special course has not yet come from Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann, the N.C. Much of the $2,500 allotted...For the course would cover transportation costs to the Laboratory. A feasibility study for a new retirement community in Davidson, for which $5,000 is appropriated, will be a second special benefit of the recent Endowment grant. A local group wants to sponsor the community, but the College is interested because expanded housing could help alleviate the current housing shortage in the area, according to Vice President for Development Duane. By drawing retired College personnel and other town residents, says Dittman, the retirement community could open new housing opportunities in town for current faculty and staff. The study will determine the prospects for using college-owned property just east of town as the location for the new retirement village.

But by far the biggest percentage of the recent Endowment grant will go to increased salary and fringe benefits for Davidson faculty and staff. This area has traditionally been the largest recipient of Endowment benefits, totaling $175,000 in 1979-80. Other benefits include $10,000 each for faculty research projects, the Center for Special Studies, and general maintenance and improvement of settings and college facilities.

Campus Magazine makes debut following month delay

By KENT DYER

Hobart’s Park finally made its debut on campus Tuesday night. Co-editors Amanda Hall, Greg Hankins, and Lyman Collins were pleased to see the magazine out after experiencing a one-month delay because of production problems. The literary magazine was to have been distributed on December 13, but technical problems with the printer caused delays and the staff had to collate and assemble the pages by hand. Collins apologized for the delay and added that he hopes to be able to bring out the Spring issue on schedule.

Hall was very enthusiastic about student response. “Our greatest problem was selecting what would appear in this issue. We received almost four times as much material as we could use.” Hobart’s Park was given a budget of $1,200 as set by the Activities Tax Council. However, Hankins feels that, due to unexpectedly high production costs, this amount will not be sufficient to cover this year’s expenses. According to Hall, their decision to use high-quality paper instead of newsprint to make the magazine more attractive accounts for the extra expenditures. She plans to begin a campus-wide fund drive early next month. Collins, however, hastened to add that the paper “desperately” needs continued community support. He is now soliciting new material for the next issue, slated to appear in early March. He still plans to print a third issue, as planned, late in Spring Term. The staff is presently seeking a business manager. Collins, Hall, and Hankins urge anyone interested in the position to contact them.

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year. Second class postage.

You'll be glad you did. Starts Wed. Jan. 17th. 25% to 60% on fine quality, fashionable APPAREL for MEN and WOMEN. Store Hours: 9 AM to 5:30 PM Mon.-Sat. except closed Tues afternoons.