2—The Davidsonian—April 20, 1979

—Board—

(Continued from page 1)

and to go through an orientation session.

Media Board member Buck Lawrimore said, “these measures are intended to increase responsibility and awareness among candidates for student media
offices.”

The proposed “statement of intent,” according to Lawrimore, is “a signed statement setting forth standards of responsibility adopted by the
Media Board.”

“The statement of intent is not a statement of prior restraint in any shape or form,” Greyard said.

The proposed orientation session is a measure designed “to familiarize student editors with the dangers of libel, the importance of
good taste, and the necessity to uphold the high standards of journalism.”

The orientation tentatively includes discussions with professional journalists in Charlotte, with lawyers familiar with libel suits, and with Media Board
members.

Greyard is planning to present the proposal to the Trustees on May 10 for their endorsement.

Lawrimore said, “The proposal will increase the helping role of the Media Board and it will increase interaction between the
Board and student media organizations. The Media Board will serve more as a counselor and less as a policeman.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term,
by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date.

The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone
892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Sophomore Annie Guerard stretches out to soak in the sun in the outdoor classroom.

(Continued from page 1)

Will Terry.

He caught an 8:30 a.m. flight to Boston from Charlotte, Terry said.

Sophomore Merle Miller, who attended the dinner, thought “The fact she (Okomba) was serving added to the earlier insult that
she was not included in the greeting activities.”

Miller said, “It’s hard for us (Americans) to understand the gravity of the situation -- we cannot really understand the
respect other cultures place in their customs.”

Carr is currently the General Secretary of the All African Conference of Churches. A native of Liberia, he received his
Masters of Theology at Harvard and is also a fellow at the Center for International Affairs there.

Was the nuclear accident a blessing?

(CPS) -- Some public utilities and industry suppliers are actually viewing the recent accident at Harrisburg’s Three Mile Island nuclear
power plant as a “blessing in disguise,” according to a report in Advertising Age. “If we come out of this
thing without an injury, it would be a boost for the industry,” said David Jones, head of advertising for General
Electric’s Power Systems division.

A spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, which has advertised on behalf of the power-generating industry in the past, doesn’t
think the incident has ruffled that many feathers. “Our sense is that support for the nuclear industry hasn’t changed very
much since Three Mile Island,” said Jack Young of the Institute.

Young feels that people outside the affected area aren’t that concerned. “The media bombardment in the East was somewhat stronger
than in the rest of the country. That causes people to think that the reaction in the Midwest is as
strong as it is here in New York. It isn’t,” he told a trade journal.

Meanwhile, the utility which oversaw the Pennsylvania plant, General Public Utilities Service Corp. of New Jersey, is not only keeping
quiet, but is axing most of its $500,000 advertising budget.

“What happened will cut into our earnings. Cost will have to be trimmed somewhere,” a spokesman said.

Most of the companies associated with nuclear power, however, are planning some sort of response to Three Mile Island, either
through advertising or a public relations effort. Said Richard Thorsen, advertising director for Chicago’s Commonwealth Edison, the largest nuclear power
generator among public utilities, “We hope to be saying something, but we don’t know the particulars yet.”

“Your Levi Store”

Men’s & Women’s Jeans

Straight leg Boot cut Flare leg

prewashed: light and dark denim

Dress Clothing

Three Piece Vested Suits Dress Pants

Dresses

Skirts

Swimwear

Easy Lay-Aways

The Jean Shoppe

663-5515 206 N. Main-Mooresville (Across from Belk’s)
