An Army of Incompetents
Samuel Maloney

Many members of the Senate and House Armed Services Committees advocate reinstituting the draft. According to Representative Robin Beard, a Tennessee Republican member of the House committee, our defense system is facing a crisis. If we wish an army capable of waging conventional (as opposed to nuclear) warfare in crises, of meeting our NATO commitment, or simply of deterring aggression, then drastic reforms are necessary. The most viable action for improving this situation is a return to some form of conscription.

The case for the draft is quite strong.
1) The U.S. Army’s conventional war capability is dangerously inadequate. This leaves the nation in the unconscionable position of having to rely upon nuclear weapons for defense.
2) Despite extraordinary recruiting efforts, the all-volunteer Army has failed to maintain a quantitatively effective fighting force. Not only has the military had to reduce by 20 percent its goal of 2.5 million personnel, but also 40 percent of new recruits do not complete their first tour of duty.
3) The quality of the all-volunteer Army, furthermore, is also distressing. Intellectual qualifications of recruits reflect the lower half of the U.S. population; almost one-third read no higher than the fifth-grade level.
4) Social welfare problems and classic labor-management conflicts further plague the volunteer Army. Few recruits are patriotically motivated; for most, military service is an escape from unemployment.
5) Escalating recruiting costs, on the one hand, and the declining quality of military life and military benefits, on the other, discourage any hope that the condition of the volunteer Army will improve.
6) Finally, the Army Selected Reserve and National Guard are only marginally effective, and their condition is deteriorating.

The problems of recruiting were graphically presented in February at a North Carolina Air National Guard staff meeting I attended. Even though the Air Force and the Air National Guard are exempt from many problems which confront the Army and the Army Guard, for every non-prior-service person recruited into the Air National Guard, one hundred contacts are necessary. Of the one hundred persons interviewed, forty cannot pass the physical examination; another forty fail the mental tests. Of the remaining twenty, only four or five are really interested, and only one actually enlists. Nationally, the military must recruit 400,000 men and women each year simply to avoid becoming smaller. The impossibility and cost of the task are apparent.

Disagreement in Washington over the appropriate form for the draft could delay legislation many months. North Carolina Senator Robert Morgan insists that the mechanism for registering the nation’s youth should be organized immediately. To wait until a wartime emergency to structure a system for identifying and locating draft-age prospects could be disastrous. Representative G. V. Montgomery, Democrat of Mississippi, is backing a bill to register all 18-year-old men and to draft up to 200,000 of them over the next five years. In his plan, each draftee would serve six months on active duty and remain subject to call for six years. Another Congressman, Democrat Charles Bennett of Florida, would substitute for actual draft registration a governmentally prepared list of 18-year-olds, probably called from the banks of the Internal Revenue Service and the Social Security Administration.

While Congressman Bennett's system would be less expensive than creating draft boards, it would require a dispensation from the Privacy Act; it could further dehumanize American society. Secretary of Defense Harold Brown has recommended and the President has reportedly concurred that any draft legislation enacted should include women as well as men. The most far-reaching of the conscription proposals is the concept of a national public service, which proponents suggest could be a positive experience both for the country and for the young people involved. Representative John Cavanaugh, Democrat of Nebraska, has requested presidential support for a bill “to provide for a universal obligation of public service for all Americans between the ages of 18 and 26. Each member of the society shares an equal obligation to make an individual contribution to meeting the needs of the whole society.” Prior to his or her 18th birthday, each young person would make certain choices: he or she could register either for military or nonmilitary service; he or she could select a particular six-month period during the following eight years in which to be vulnerable to the draft. If drafted, two years of service would be required.

Because many people today oppose military spending and military service, they consequently oppose the draft. Unless they can be convinced that keeping the nation strong militarily is in the best interests of the United States and of mankind, they may resist conscription. If Congress has to decide on the issue before the elections of 1980, many legislators may be faced with the sensitive choice between national security and their own political security. The answer of citizens and congressmen to this critical question will determine the United States' future.States’ role in future world

The late Swiss theologian Karl Barth makes an interesting observation about the draft: “The pacifist demand for the abolition of conscription is short-sighted... War is an affair of the state and therefore of the totality of its subjects, not of a minority or majority of volunteers or militarists. All citizens share responsibility for it both in peace and war. They thus share the burden of this responsibility, and must themselves face the question of whether it is right or wrong. This fact is given due expression and brought right home by conscription, whereas it is glossed over in every other type of military constitution... Pacifists, therefore, should be the very last to call for the abolition of conscription.” (Church Dogmatics, III/4, 466).

Dr. Maloney, a member of the Religion department, serves as chairman of the second-year Humanities program.

PIRG Drugs

N.C. PIRG, that organization no one ever seems to know anything about, has quietly carried out another project, a survey whose results will be used to support a bill allowing substitution of generic drugs for name brands. Questions have recently been raised about funding for the Davidson chapter. Funding was indicating the college’s support. As an educational institution, part of Davidson's task is the development of social consciousness. This is what PIRG and other similar organizations help to develop, and, as such, deserve a place with other college-funded activities.

Disruptive, Sleepless Nights

The article by Brad Kerr in the February 16th issue of the Davidsonian focuses attention on one of the most persistent problems at Davidson College. The problem is that there is no agreed-upon standard of student conduct in the dormitories or in college-owned houses in Davidson. A related problem is that even if there were such a standard, there is no agency, organization, or group to enforce it. The result is that the dormitories are often so noisy that students cannot study there nor can they get to sleep at a reasonable hour. Many students at Davidson find it difficult to attend nine o'clock classes—let alone eight o'clock classes—with any regularity. Another result is that the dormitories are frequently vandalized, with accompanying inconvenience to the students who live in them and expense to the college. Another is that residents of the town who live near dormitories or college-owned houses inhabited by students are sometimes kept awake half the night by the noise of high-fidelity sound systems.

A residential college like Davidson is supposed to provide an ideal educational environment. What do students learn by living in dormitories and college-owned houses here? Has the college made any serious attempt to assist Davidson students to develop a civilized mode of behavior in a community of learning? It can be argued that the Code of Responsibility provides an adequate standard of student conduct and that every student has the responsibility of seeing that the standard is made effective. The Code speaks, however, in general rather than in specific terms. Experience has shown, moreover, that a group of determined “hell-raisers” can defeat the efforts of even a large number of responsible students.

John Locke’s description of the state of nature: The residents are free, equal, and possessed of the gift of reason. Yet, when one person or one group of people infringes upon the rights of others, there is no independent judge for the aggrieved to appeal to, no agency to legislate rules, and no executive to enforce them. Occasionally, life in the dormitories seems to recall Thomas Hobbes’ description of the state of nature where every man’s hand is raised against every other man’s and life seems “poor, nasty, brutish, and short.”

I cannot help comparing the situation in Davidson's dormitories with that in the dormitories at the college I attended. At Sewanee, there is a “matron” (house-mother) and a college-appointed student “proctor” in every dormitory. The matron sets an example of civilized life and counsels students as the need arises. The proctor sees that standards of behavior are upheld and, specifically, that conditions are suitable for study in the evenings. Offenders who will not listen to reason are reported to the Dean of Men or the Dean of Women. That there are nevertheless occasions when disorder erupts and vandalism occurs perhaps goes without saying. But there is at least an organizational structure for coping with these occasions.

Davidson needs to find its own solution. We have capable administrative officers and student leaders. We have freshmen hall counselors with a proven record in building a sense of community in the freshmen dormitories. With a pooling of such talents, more can be achieved if Davidson students are to perform academically to the best of their abilities and prepare themselves for lives of responsibility and service.

Dr. Brown Patterson is...