— (Are Maneuverings Behind the Offing?)

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) — At the close of the last session of Congress, the U.S. Senate approved a measure that
would create a new cabinet department, the U.S. Department of Education. By a 72-11 vote, it gave the new department—which
would centralize most federal education programs under one administrative roof—$14.6 billion and 16,000 staffers. But, in the end, the proposal
was scuttled. Opponents in the House of Representatives tacked over 100 amendments to the proposal. The delaying tactics worked. When
the 95th Congress adjourned, there still was no department of education and the U.S. was still the only industrialized nation
in the world without one.

It’s not for lack of trying. Congress has considered over 120 proposals for administering education programs since the 1850s. One
of the few that was actually passed was in 1954, when the newly-created U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare
(HEW) was given authority over most government school-related activities. Discontent with that arrangement continues. Almost inevitably, it’s expected to result
in yet another bill for a Department of Education in the 96th session of Congress, which opens January 15.

Indeed, debate over the proposal is expected to dominate education action on the Hill this spring. But opponents are equally
optimistic. They expect to pick up support because of the “tax revolt,” and the free-floating suspicion that attends the creation
of any new bureaucracy. Those opponents are worried that centralizing all education programs under one roof could do more harm
than good. For example, James O'Hara, a lobbyist with the American Federation of Teachers, is scared that education would be
isolated in a new department, and that, as a result, federal funding will be harder to get. Others say elementary
and secondary education would get the most attention in a department, while higher education would have a lower priority.

Some major research universities have announced a fear that a centralized department would only involve the federal government more in
all levels of education—federal involvement now is a source of escalating concern—and would make grants harder to get. Representative Shirley
Chisholm (D-NY) protested that the proposal doesn’t guarantee independence for the office of civil rights, and that it would disrupt
Indian education programs by removing them from the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

The “government control” issue, though, seems to be at the heart of the opposition. John Phillips, head of the National
Association of Independent Colleges and Universities, is officially “undecided” himself, but claims growing numbers of college presidents are concerned about
government control. Phillips fears “the department (idea) tends to reinforce a trend, and that’s why there is reluctance to support
it.” The trend, says Senator Harrison Schmitt of New Mexico, is mostly toward “increased inefficiency.”

Yet a number of education groups actively support the idea. A separate department devoted to education would, according to the
supporters, finally make a coherent national education policy possible. John Ryor, president of the National Education Association, also sees less
waste. Administration costs could be cut by centralizing education programs, while giving education clout in the congressional process. At present,
points out...Rufus Miles, Senior Fellow at Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson School, states that 40 agencies manage 300 education programs, of which
200 are outside HEW. Education is thus the last agency within HEW to get money. Even then, Ryor adds, education
doesn’t get as much money as it needs. The entire HEW budget has quadrupled since 1968, but education expenditures have
only doubled. Education currently gets only about five percent of the entire HEW budget.

Up and Coming On Campus

Friday, Jan. 19
5:00 pm Progressive Dinner, Student Union.
8 & 10:30 Pop Film, Oh God!
10:00 Davidson College Jazz Ensemble, 900 Room.

Saturday, Jan. 20
10:00 Davidson College Jazz Ensemble, 900 Room.

Monday, Jan. 22
3:00 Tryouts Hello Out There and Apollo of Bellac, Hodson Hall.

Tuesday, Jan. 23
12:30 CROP Meal, 900 Room.
7:00 Worship Service, DCPC.
8:15 Organ Recital, Wilmer Hayden Welsh, DCPC.

Wednesday, Jan. 24
12:30 Open Luncheon with speaker Tony Abbott, 900 Room.
4:00 Senior Seminar on Interviews, Morrison Room.

Thursday, Jan. 25
7:00 Drama Workshop Student Opening Ten Little Indians.

Friday, Jan. 26
7:30 & 10:00 Drama Workshop Ten Little Indians.
8 & 10:30 Pop Film TBA.

Sports

Basketball
Monday, Jan. 22, Wake Forest at Charlotte Coliseum, 7:30 pm.
Wednesday, Jan. 24, Citadel, Home, 7:30 pm.

Swimming
Friday, Jan. 19, Old Dominion at UNCC, 4 pm.
Saturday, Jan. 20, James Madison at UNCC, 11:30 am.

Women’s Basketball
Friday, Jan. 19, Furman, Home, 7 pm.
Saturday, Jan. 20, Pembroke, Away.
Monday, Jan. 22, Winthrop, Away.
Wednesday, Jan. 24, Gardner Webb, Away.

Wrestling
Saturday, Jan. 20, Citadel Invitational Tournament, Away.

Rifle
Saturday, Jan. 20, Florida Invitational, Away.

Isn't it time you sank your teeth into a pizza from KING OF PIZZA? Visit King of Pizza today for
a pizza you won’t soon forget. Fast service, good food, and convenient location. King of Pizza, Inc., 241 South Broad
Street, Mooresville, N.C. Phone 663-3030.

How much food does it take to feed 1200 pigs? That’s what the planners of the Progressive Pig-Out have been
asking. They estimate that 1000 to 1200 students, faculty, and staff will attend the campus-wide dinner this Friday. In order
to accomplish this massive culinary feat, an amazing amount of cooperation and just plain hard work has taken place. The
idea was developed before Christmas, and a small committee headed by David Barnard was formed which began hatching schemes early
in December. They have obtained the cooperation of the Patterson Court houses (who will provide some of the food and
most of the people), ARA Slater, and various independents and faculty wives in the rounding-up of food. In addition, large
numbers of students will aid in serving the various dishes, preparing the food, and, necessarily, directing the flow. Courses of
the meal will be served in the Union (hors d'oeuvres in the 900 Room, dessert in the TV Lounge and
Morrison Room), and the rest will be in Chambers (salad on the third floor, soup on the second floor, and
the entrée in the Gallery), with at least two serving areas in each place to speed the traffic flow. Publicity
chairman Weezie Mann, who brought a live pig onto campus for advertisement, doesn’t anticipate any problems. “It's all gone very
smoothly so far. I think it will be good."
