The Grants

David Grant has made two mistakes in his life. The first was having to get married, and the second was having to get married to Cindy Grant. She has been placed on the American Cancer Society’s list of endangered species. At three packs of Camel no-filters a day, she won't be around long. Until she croaks off, David conducts weekend ecological field trips to Hilton Head with his female students. The biology department truck easily converts from a moving laboratory to a brothel on wheels, complete with a waterbed and a mirrored ceiling. Cindy thrills her classes with the fashionable wardrobe she pulled out of the Good Will Box in 1958 (if she waits another 20 years, they might come in style). On very rare occasions, she might not hold class when she goes for her annual hair wash. Students who have the Grants are fortunate, though, to have a regular nap hour every day while they try to get their lecture information correct.

Lammers

William “Tut” Lammers is, in his mind, still lost in a Tokyo whorehouse that thrived during the post-World War II occupation. He loves anything that has to do with making babies, which is why his favorite course is genetics. Even Bio 21, which he despises because there is nothing about F & S in the textbook, can be a sickening, though sensual, experience. On one memorable occasion, Lammers noted, “Remember those fluoroscopes they used to have in shoe stores during the Depression? No? Well, you could stick your feet in them, look in the screen, and see how well your new shoes fit. Lots of fun, and those x-rays really fried your gonads.”

Putnam

Professor Putnam’s goatee may be fake, but apparently, so is his Ph.D.

Wellnitz

Chairman of the department of philosophical genetics, he goes under the pseudonyms of Boris the Spider and Grouch. We all know William Wellnitz is really Bozo the Clone. He spends his Saturday nights cloning bedbugs and reading chemistry.

Burnett

“Nicky Burn” is personally responsible for Davidson’s having the highest student suicide rate in the Southeast. His joke about oxidation of human flesh with dichromic acid provides the only glimmer of humor in his crash 10-week course in sado-masochistic chemical reactions.

Carroll

Felix A. Carroll (the “A” is short for Alvin) possesses one unique characteristic: he is the only graduate of Cal Tech with an inferiority complex. This is understandable as he is the only individual on campus who takes Organic Chemistry seriously. Even Freddie realizes that students take the class only to get into med school and hear funny stories (again and again and again...). In spite of this, Dr. Carroll - or “Moussilini” as he is affectionately called - continues to hold consistently full classes (for those poor saps whose random number kept them out of Freddie’s). Class time itself is both worthwhile and challenging: worthwhile if you need an extra 50 minutes of sleep, and challenging for even the strongest stomach to keep breakfast down after his early morning puns. (Notice that these are “puns,” readily distinguishable from humor or entertainment. Notice also that the pre-meds in the class write down the puns in their notebooks.) And his grading system is strict and fair: heads means a B or a C, tails a D or an F. He blushes at Aristophanes and all those dirty Greeks. You just want to hug him to death. I just wish we could get rid of that French Toad wife and those...bratty little children and take Davies home forever. I want to see him light up those blue eyes just for me. If the coin lands on its edge, you get an A. But above all, the little rotter is a warm and decent human being. He motivates his classes in the pursuit of knowledge with inspirational statements such as “You won’t get into med school if you don’t.” As warm outside the classroom as within, he often greets passing students with a pleasant grunt, immediately after he has stepped on all the ants on the sidewalk.

Like the rest of the chemistry department faculty, he engages in esoteric research, and his recent experiments with flies have raised more than a few faculty eyebrows (e.g., How does he get those hormones out of the little fellows, anyway?).

Student comments on Dr. Carroll range from the unsolicited and unprintable to “the man has the voice and humanness of Truman Capote” and “He makes the Marquis de Sade look like Captain Kangaroo!”

Fredrickson
Organic 101 and 102, courses consisting of relevant alchemy techniques, are taught by our beloved James Frederickson. Topics covered include: how to get into med school, what to eat before the MCATs, Premeds I have known, and the rejected med school applicant; or, how to retire to a monastery and “do” Industrial Chemistry.

Gable
Rambling Ralph Garble may not be much on chemistry lectures, but never get into a poker game with him.

Garrett
Beaver Cleaver’s long lost brother

Nutt
Dr. Nutt is a really good guy but he does have a few problems. Foremost is this practice he has of starting class 10 minutes early. If you don’t get to class early you may never catch up. Give us a break, Dr. Nutt! For those students in Chemistry 31, Nutt is often found to be too regimented and organized. He must think Chemistry 31 is a “baby” P-Chem. Good grief. For those of us in P-Chem, twenty minutes early seems to be the rule. Then there are those dreadful P-Chem labs. So boring and long to do and then even longer to write up. (“At least thirteen pages to please the Good King Nutt.”) Then the reviews, they were beasts. If you went in after breakfast you might break for lunch, but one thing’s for sure, you'll use your first hunch.

Those of us who are jealous have always wanted to know how Nutt always seems to get only female research assistants. So what’s the story Becca, M. F.? Then there are those of us at the Chemistry Department picnic who try our best to outdrink Nutt. Oh well, there is always this year! Rumor has it that the spring picnic is going to be held out at Nutt’s lake house. Thanks, Nutt. No, Nutt is not a nut! He is just a really neat guy. To quote the words of a song written about the man, “He is real, but at low pressure he is ideal.”

Classics
Davies: Classics Professor Mark I. (for Izod) Davies is the 1978 winner of the Mary Jo Clark Cuddly Award. He's just so cutesy with his color glasses, his zero shirts, and his funky little bowties. Davies was brought up in Cambridge, Mass., and spent eight years at Princeton. He's still there mentally. But, well gosh, he’s just so fun in class. He's so innocent.