Wildcat gridders proclaim: We know what we can do

By BARRY SACHTJEN
Senior Sports Editor

A convincing win by a team in its opening game engenders terrific confidence among its fans. However, in view of Davidson's past unpredictable track record, why would anyone believe that this year is any different, regardless of their 35-7 drubbing of Catawba last weekend?

MENTAL PREPARATION

Before proceeding to shed some light on why this season's won-lost record could be the best ever in Davidson history with tangible evidence, it is perhaps important to dwell initially on the intangible factors which supplement a team’s physical tools—namely, attitude and confidence.

Captain Phillip Gilbert, a four-year starter at free safety, notes that this year’s team seems “more self-confident” than in other years. He attributes a good deal of the increased self-assurance to the fact that “with more upperclassmen playing, we all know each other's moves better and are more mature.”

Captain Craig Pyles, a four-year starter at running back, acknowledges the improved mental attitude of this year’s squad by saying, “Nobody has any doubts we can be a good team. We have a feeling of knowing what we can do.”

Captain Mike Sheridan, in his fifth season with the Wildcats as a defensive lineman, reflected on the improved aspects of the football program. “My freshman year the player attrition rate was unbelievable. Now, we have a higher retention of players who believe in the program and Coach Farrell's brand of football.”

The squad’s altered mental framework was discernible before this season even started; the team enthusiastically underwent an intensive off-season preparation to improve the critical football skill areas of agility, speed, and strength. It seems to have paid high dividends already for the Cats. Sheridan observed, “The coaches have asked more, and we have given more. We’ve gotten stronger and quicker due to off-season work.”

The perseverance and dedication of the players even progressed during the early summer months when the players were forced to design disciplined workouts on their own. Sheridan noted, “Even from last year, we've come back to camp in better shape. We've been able to work more on our football skills than getting into shape.” Pyles echoed the sentiments of his teammate, “Although the atmosphere was lively during camp, it has been a lot of work. Everybody’s waiting for it to pay off.”

Coach Ed Farrell, now in his sixth year at the coaching helm, strongly believes only two factors can keep the Cats from a very good season, one being an unusual amount of injuries. However, Farrell added that the depth situation, always a problem at Davidson, is better this year than in the past. The second factor Farrell noted as damaging to a successful record was the “problem of confidence—believing in yourself. Living with a losing tradition is tough on the players. Success is the only way to gain the needed confidence.” Therefore, to help remedy this problem, the team has cultivated several ingredients considered essential for bolstering football confidence—running, speed, and physical strength through hard work in the off-season.

OFFENSE

Coach Farrell’s introduction of the Wing-T offense six years ago came after an era of celebrated passing quarterbacks at Davidson. It was not unusual for forty or more passes to be attempted in one game. Although exciting to watch, this free-lance offense proved very unfruitful. In contrast, the Wing-T offense takes on a very conservative appearance. Those who have endured the trial period of the Wing-T finally seem to have been rewarded. This result comes as no surprise to Farrell who insists that a successful football team must “have a balanced offense.” He adds, “This requires a good inside and outside running game and the ability to throw the football.”

Perhaps the biggest question mark for the Cats is the offensive line. Coach Farrell commented, “We’re more athletic on the line than we've ever been before and it is important to have this athletic ability on the line.” Offensive line coach Bob Estock was pleased with the efforts of his line against Catawba, but made it clear, “We can’t be satisfied with what we've done. We've got to improve upon it.” In listening to Estock’s claim about the importance of the offensive line, it is easy to see why he strives for perfection from his players. He contends, “If the line can win the line of scrimmage, then it can determine the outcome of a football game.”

Davidson is fortunate to possess a group of extremely talented and hard-working athletes in the running back positions. In fact, this may be the strongest facet of the Cats' offense. They are able to throw the football, Piercy, in particular, is a deep threat at any time and Coach Jim Colbert, the offensive coordinator, feels the team has “got to get the ball to him as much as possible.”

At quarterback, senior Al Rhyne and sophomore Brian Whitmore will be battling it out for the number-one berth. Sheridan pointed out the positive stabilizing influence of having “two healthy and capable quarterbacks that are capable of leading a team.” However, since only one quarterback can start, Whitmore will get the nod this weekend owing to his splendid performance against Catawba. Yet, Farrell affirms, “the quarterback situation has not changed. One or the other always seems to get the job done.”

Rhyne struggles to fire a pass over charging Catawba linemen, but he may face a tougher struggle for the starting QB position.with the offense lies with the offensive line, which is judged to be somewhat small by most college standards. Farrell acknowledges this apparent physical deficiency, but insists “the lineman can make up size with blocking technique.” Pyles, too, was quick to emphasize, “since the line does a lot of trapping, quickness is more important than size.” Farrell concluded his effusive praise of his offensive line, which included seniors Dave Donaldson and Matt Auker and juniors Patrick Pope, Danny Klinar, and Dave Nichols, by praising their tremendous overall talents. “We’re better athletes game. Farrell, although noting a slight problem with their outside speed, is quite confident with the halfback situation. “We know about our halfbacks. They’re exceptional blockers as well as good runners.” Led by powerful senior Craig Pyles and the deceptive slashing style of junior Alvin Atkinson, the backfield position appears very solid, especially when one considers the awesome talent at the fullback position in sophomores Ray Sinclair and Aaron Rollins. It is obvious from his comments that Farrell is very high on his two fullbacks. “Sinclair has great balance and he may have the best speed in the backfield. Aaron has played very well, but we were not surprised. We were aware of his potential. We knew going into the Catawba game that we had two fullbacks willing to play. It gives us a great dimension now that we have two people we know we can win with,” Farrell said.

The receiving corps presents another formidable area for opponents to defense. Led by premier junior wide receiver Gifford Piercy and sure-handed tight-ends Tom Trahey and James Jones, who are presently rotating at their position, the Cat quarterbacks are in an enviable position whenever Trey Thies is done. “I have total confidence in both people.” Colbert recognizes the merits of having two fine throwing quarterbacks available for action, but expresses his desire “that someone would just take charge. At this point, Brian is number one. We're not alternating quarterbacks.”

DEFENSE

On defense, the team has a large number of returning veterans, a fact which greatly pleases Coach Farrell and further augments player confidence. Safety Gilbert admitted, “It takes time for the secondary and the defense to work together—experience is the key.” Middle guard Sheridan expresses these same feelings. “Things started coming together in the Lafayette game at the end of last season. Hopefully, we can use that as an example. We lost good players to graduation, but there are quality players ready to step in.” Farrell too expects this team’s defense to be very good, and with good reason, as the team and the coaches have learned from last year's mistakes. “Defense was the epitome of our frustrations last year. We played tentatively and with no confidence. This year we emphasized team defense and we've reduced the keys. We may have become too drill conscious last year. Hopefully, by emphasizing more playing instead of just drilling, natural instinct and playing talent will be the key,” he said.

The Cats will be looking for strong inside play from Sheridan, senior Dylan Faircloth, and ever-improving junior Steve Lowe. At the ends will be the able duo of senior Barry Cannon and Guy Harbert. Junior Pat Sheridan is injured but should be returning to action shortly. At the linebacker position, the Cats seem to have a surplus of gifted athletes. With senior Jim Lividatis and Greg Hammons, junior Atmire Bailey, sophomore starter James McClain, and freshman sensation Sammy Huntley all ready for action, the linebacker position appears sound. In the secondary, seniors Gilbert and hard-hitting John Fetcho will be paired with the talented junior cornerback Kevin Hannah and speedy sophomore Andre Kennebrew, who has stepped in to take the place of an injured Virgil Fludd.

The specialty and kicking teams will also provide a big plus for the Wildcats. Sophomore kicker Wayne Paymer, labelled a “pro-prospect” by Farrell, will handle all placekicking and punting chores. The specialty teams may also provide some excitement as their punting and kicking coverage demonstrated this past Saturday. Led by Captain Mitch Shirley, whom Sheridan extols as “doing a good job of firing his squad up,” the specialty team is replete with a group of scrappy, hard-nosed players who will perform their duties quite well. According to Sheridan, the team takes a good deal of pride in the performance of this unit.

All in all, Farrell seems quite optimistic about this season and understandably so. “Every year the attitude gets better and the players are willing to do more,” Farrell said. “I think I detect an appreciable increase in emotion and enthusiasm. The players are determined to do what needs to be done. I can’t think of anything more to ask of them until the kickoffs. We have a good schedule. It is both realistic and challenging.” Pyles concurred, saying, “the schedule is tough enough to get into the divisions 1-AA playoffs should the team play up to its potential.” However, both players and coaches wisely seemed a little cautious with forecasting such lofty goals for the Cats. At present, the team has agreed to focus on limited objectives—that is, taking each game one at a time—so that all energies can be directed to what the team has to do right now. If the team can do this successfully, Farrell believes, it is “potentially a good football team. If we can just jell early and build our confidence, we won't be easy to beat.”