Grover Meetze has reprimanded three employees of Davidson College. Large fee increases hit private and public college students (CPS)—“No way,
we won't pay,” chanted upwards of 900 Tufts University students at a rally held last month to protest a tuition
increase of $904. At Wright State University in Ohio, the catchword is HALT - Higher Ambitions, Lower Tuition. There, an
$80-90 increase in tuition is expected for the fall quarter. Students already organized a letter-writing campaign. Protests such as these
are sprouting on many campuses in the face of tuition increases that promise to surpass last year’s. Then, the average
tab, tuition, room, and board cumulatively, jumped five to eight percent for most schools, outpacing for many the increase in
the Consumer Price Index and the Higher Education Price Index (the prices schools pay for goods). Next fall’s forecast is
even more dismal. Preliminary reports show increases ranging from eight to eleven percent over this year’s level. For example:

- The 500,000 students at the 82 State Universities of New York (SUNY) and City Universities of New York (CUNY)
are expecting a $100 tuition increase which would raise the current charges by 10.6 percent. Now, freshmen and sophomores pay
$750 per year, and juniors and seniors pay $900.
- In Massachusetts, the legislature’s Education Committee is considering a proposal that would raise the share of the student’s cost
of education to 25 percent in 1979, and 30 percent in 1981. At U-Mass, this would mean the 1978-80 tuition
of $525 would be raised to $859 next fall, and $1034 in 1981.

The protest at Tufts prompted the administration to lower the proposed tuition hike from $904 a year (a 12.8 percent
increase) to $590 and then to $550. Together with room and board, there would still be a 10.7 percent increase
of $754. The Oregon legislature is recommending a 16 percent hike for next fall for state schools. It’s also considering
reinstating out-of-state charges for non-residents at two schools. A 16 percent increase, amounting to $100, is also expected by the
24,000 students at North Dakota’s public colleges. If a bill regulating the student’s share of total educational expenses passes in
the North Dakota legislature, tuition could double.

Not all schools, of course, will experience such dramatic increases, and come next fall, the proposed increases may be watered
down. But most students can expect to spend more in the tuition line, if not this year, then in the
next few years. The reason, experts say, is that schools will have to use tuition to augment one or more
of these factors: inflationary pressures and costs, declining enrollment (which doesn’t always mean declining costs), and increasingly parsimonious state funding,
which will be oftentimes complicated by “tax-cutting fever.”

Administrators tend to point most frequently to inflation as the culprit. Dartmouth president John Kemeny pegged inflation as the “largest
single threat to financing of private higher education,” after announcing that tuition is scheduled to go up $450 next fall.
Administrators at Tufts said well over half of its proposed increase was due to inflation. Student leaders at Tufts acknowledged
that some inflationary expenses were expected but posited that they should at least stay within the suggested seven percent increase
of President Carter's wage and Price Stability guidelines. Tufts financial aid officials countered that Tufts was exempted from the guidelines
because the school ran a deficit last year.

The reply is typical, as many administrators claim to have made “good-faith” efforts to stay within the seven percent limit.
At Stanford, for example, the trustees aimed for the guidelines but came up with an 8.9 percent increase in undergraduate
assessment, and a 13.5 percent increase in med school tuition. For Stanford, they said, the wage-price guidelines raise “serious conceptual
and calculational difficulties.”

But while inflation’s tolls are hard to document, the effects of the enrollment decline are only too clear. A number
of schools are compensating by raising tuition, if not for undergrads, then for graduate, foreign, and non-resident students. The University
of North Carolina system, for one, is facing a possible 10 percent tuition increase for in-state students and 24 percent
for out-of-staters. At U-Mass, a measure passed last summer raising non-resident tuition from $1550 to $3150 in the next three
years. Two bills in the Texas senate would triple graduate student tuition, and nearly double foreign student tuition. Regardless of...how
tuition amounts are assigned. Though, the major income to public colleges comes by way of state appropriation, and those amounts
greatly influence tuition rates. “There’s a trend in the seventies for states to invest less in higher education,” agrees Dr.
Jay Stanteb of the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. Thus, tuition is certain to be used to offset
the trend. SUNY trustees suggested the tuition increase after they would receive less than half of its increase. In Ohio,
Governor James Rhodes’ proposed budget includes only half of the three percent increase requested. Wright State, Cleveland State, and Kent
State are all expecting tuition increases.

(continued on page as)

on probation for making the statement that there was a communication problem in the shop. This was taken to be
an implicit criticism of my supervisor,” Rolland explained. The reprimand from Meetze that was issued on January 26 resulted in
the reprimand being filed and the transfer of jobs. Alexander, a licensed electrician who had been working for the College
for a number of years, was transferred into carpentry work; McIntosh had been a plumber with the College for 17
years and was transferred to the Grounds crew; Rolland was transferred from electrical work, involving the language lab and audio-visual
equipment, to the College Union. The three men who initiated the petition were following the guidelines set up by the
College’s Grievance Procedure. The first step in the procedure was that “an employee with a grievance shall first talk with
his or her supervisor.” If the employee is not satisfied, then he can take his complaint to the

There are, moreover, increasing indications that not all taxpayers want to aid higher education as in the past. Many people
feel higher education should be a luxury, and the bill should be footed by those who receive it. Thus, a
number of states are attempting to increase the percentage a student pays of the cost of education. Nationwide, that share
averages about 22 percent. At U-Mass, the current level is 15 percent. The bill it sponsored to that effect is
in the legislature, along with a measure that forces non-residents to assume 95 percent of the costs of education. The
Foundation’s bill was introduced at about the same time that Massachusetts Governor Edward King announced that the 1980 budget for
higher education would contain little or no increase over 1979. Foundation president, Richard Manley, thinks that action provides all the
more incentive for student-supported education. “There’s a tear-ass electorate out there as far as taxes are concerned, and Governor King
is playing to it,” he commented. “This being the case, it makes sense for those who can afford it to
pay for their education.” State Representative James Collins sees it differently. The fact that state-supported schools have low tuition is
“the whole idea behind public higher education,” he said.

It works in North Dakota and New Jersey. The North Dakota bill would increase the student's share of expenses from
14 percent to 25-30 percent. The New Jersey State Board of

However, Rolland had some criticisms about the Grievance Procedures. “It makes no provision by which an employee can complain to
anybody who is not hostile to his complaint.” He feels that “it is very desirable to be able to complain
to the immediate supervision, but it is bad because it is the only option.” He continued saying that “most of
his co-workers find it difficult to bring forth a legitimate complaint because they fear losing their job. It takes an
awfully strong character to complain when his only legitimate place to complain is to his management, who is directly the
person to whom he has his grievance. Yet when a complaint is made to anyone else, it is grounds for
discipline.” Rolland suggested that the Grievance Procedure “has a fatal flaw. It would help if there was some neutral ear
earlier along the line than before the formation of the ad hoc committee. I believe that it is a much
broader problem concerning the question of how can an employee raise questions about his work.” He concluded, “I’m not sure
there is any way.”

Emergency registration with registration last week than ever before, or at least for as long as College Registrar Richard Burts
can remember. Over 500 students returned to Davidson March 12 without a full schedule. On this day a new, emergency
add-drop system was introduced to cope
