12—The Davidsonian—February 2, 1979

Legal mixed drink sales have tripled despite controversy

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. Research Editor

Mecklenburg livers have become markedly greener in the three months since liquor by the drink became legal. Charlotte bartenders report
mixed drink sales triple that of set-ups this time last year.

“Sales have leveled off a bit since people went out for their first drink last fall, but they are still
pretty high,” said Radisson Hotel Beverage Manager Susan Turner.

But not everyone’s content. The North Carolina Christian Action League (CAL) is upset not only over liquor by the drink’s
passage in Mecklenburg County, but over the state local option law itself. Coy Privette, a Kannapolis Baptist Minister and CAL’s
affable Associate Director, denounced the law in no uncertain terms.

“To drink or not to drink is not the issue. People are being asked to vote on a sorry bill.
It’s destructive to the community, a regulatory nightmare, and a serious constitutional question.”

To halt the sales and ignore the lot of North Carolina’s (impoverished) lawyers, the League filed suit against the ABC
Board, the State Attorney General, and the State Board of Elections on January 8. The suit hinges on whether Section
24 Article 2 of the North Carolina Constitution prohibiting local or special acts regarding trade includes sales of liquor by
the drink, as the League alleges.

“The state law as it stands now allows any little crossroads to set a liquor election. In South Carolina any
Tom, Dick, and Harry can open up a liquor store and North Carolina is heading the same direction.” Privette asserted
that the state local option law is poorly written and marred by loopholes.

“The law is just too vague. It says nothing about what a social establishment is and not enough about which
of them can serve drinks. Virginia, for example, has a very strict definition.”

Privette seemed particularly upset that North Carolina might lose its questionable reputation for sobriety, or at least for abstinence from
alcohol. “The law’s unenforceable and makes North Carolina the most liberal state in the nation in terms of liquor control,”
he lamented. “The state has long been at the bottom in national rankings of liquor sales. According to the FBI,
North Carolina is 38th in DUI arrests.” (DUI refers to those driving while intoxicated.)

Unless the State Supreme Court declares local option unconstitutional soon, joyous Mecklenburgers have nothing to worry about. State law prohibits
another election on the issue for three years. In the interim, though, it’s a safe bet that the Christian Action
League will be opposing Charlotte’s certain transformation into Gomorrah. Says Privette, “Look, New York City has more bars than any
other place in the world and it’s going broke.”

Polysyllabic profundity

(CPS)—The way University of Cincinnati’s Dr. John McCall sees it, he’s just “taking some proactive steps to enhance the University’s
output with simpler input on the part of facilitators.” In other words, he wants the University to start saying what
it means.

McCall is one of a burgeoning number of educators who have begun an active attack on “jargonization.” In plain English,
“jargonization” means the use of specialized, complicated terms.For everyday activities, educators are worried that such speech may make functional illiterates
out of still more people. Some even fear that jargon could be used by powerful special interest groups to “bend
the truth without even lying.” Thus, an unofficial movement to stamp out jargon is taking form, and its proponents include
not only English teachers, but those who are often most guilty of ‘language pollution,’ administrators and government officials. McCall has
begun by levying 25 cents fines against University of Cincinnati administrators and deans who use the word “input” or “feedback”
in other than their accurate, technical meaning.

Pizza from KING OF PIZZA is soooo delicious!! Try King of Pizza today!
King of Pizza, Inc.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 663-3030

The Back Page

On Campus

Thursday, February 1
Open Luncheon with Virginia Saurwein. Morrison Room. 1:00.
Cy Timmons. 900 Room. 9:30 & 11:00

Friday, February 2
The Amazing Randi. 6:30. Love.
Josh White, Jr. 7:30. Love. Tickets $2.
Pop Film: To Kill a Mockingbird. Morrison Room. 10:30 p.m.

Saturday, February 3
College Bowl Tournament. 12:30 p.m. 900 Room. Davidson, UNCC, Clemson, USC.
Lloyd Hinson Orchestra. Gallery. 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.
Pop Film: To Kill a Mockingbird. Morrison Room. 10:30 p.m.
Breakfast in the Snack Bar. $2.25 per person.

Sunday, February 4
Symposium on “Death and Dying,” begins 8:30 p.m. with a reading of Michael Cristofer’s play The Shadow Box. 900 Room.

Monday, February 5
Alumni Organ Recital. DCPC. by John Deaver. 8:15 p.m.
A panel presentation and discussion on “Death and Dying.” 8:00 p.m. 900 Room.

Tuesday, February 6
“Death and Dying.” Informal discussion with Mr. Ancrum. 4:00. Conversation Pit.
Worship Service led by Mr. Ancrum. 7:00 p.m. DCPC.

Josh White, Jr. is to perform in Love Friday. (Susan Stevens)

Josh White
By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

On Friday night one of Davidson’s favorite musical artists will be on campus for the concert. Yes, Josh White, Jr.
Josh is from New York and plays acoustic guitar. He has been visiting Davidson for the past four years and
has played here at least 12 times. Tickets are $2.00 a piece. The concert will be general admission, but get
there early for good seats. The warm-up show before the concert will be a magician, the Amazing Randi, who bills
himself as one of the world’s greatest escape artists. The Amazing Randi will start about 7:30 and perform until the
concert begins.

On Saturday the Lloyd Hinson Orchestra will be playing for the formal dance in the gallery. Don’t be dismayed, however,
at the word orchestra; it won’t be senior citizen music, but a very good contemporary repertoire.

Sports

Wednesday, January 29
Men's Basketball vs. Appalachian State. Johnston Gym. 7:30

Thursday, February 1
Women’s Basketball vs. Bennett. Johnston Gym. 7:00.

Friday, February 2
Wrestling vs. Furman. Johnston Gym. 7:30.
Swimming vs. William & Mary. UNCC pool. 4:00.

Saturday, February 3
Swimming vs. VMI. UNCC pool. 11:30 a.m.
Rifle. W. Carolina Conference. Away.
Basketball vs. Western Carolina University. Away. 7:30.

Monday, February 5
Women's Basketball vs. Davidson Community College. Johnston Gym. 7:00.
Basketball vs. Citadel. Away. 8:00.

Tuesday, February 6
Swimming vs. Appalachian. Away. 4:00.
Women’s Basketball vs. Meredith. Away.
