The Koller Decision
Michael Kennedy

As the new fall term begins, I believe it necessary to remind those responsible for the 1979 tenure decisions of the students’ reaction. Because I was very involved in this student reaction, I feel I am able to provide an accurate picture. Although Dr. Joseph Retzer was also a subject of students' concern, Dr. Norman Koller’s situation is most familiar to me, and he will be my main focus herein.

Dr. Koller was denied tenure on May 14, 1979. Few students could believe nor understand the decision. Despite the confusion that follows any such disturbing event, combined with the choice of time for announcement of the decision (the end of spring term at which time the Davidsonian had ceased publication and all students were swamped with work), that same evening a group of over sixty students assembled to try to understand what had been done to Koller and Retzer, and to decide what we as students could do about it. Out of that initial meeting, a committee of students emerged, determined to voice how students felt about the tenure decision. The tremendous student body support of the committee’s efforts indicated endorsement by a significant portion of the students. Copies of these petitions and letters have previously been forwarded to those most involved in the decision. At least 500 students signed the petition in support of Koller, 300 for Retzer. This is a remarkable response in a hectic time period from a student body of less than 1300. In another petition, over 700 students called for a general review of the entire method of evaluating tenure—given the unsatisfactory results of the present method. In addition to these efforts, individual letters of protest written by students and alumni have been sent to all those involved in the decision. Finally, an assembly was held on the only reading day of the final exam period. This assembly, attended by over 100 people, was initiated by the students to once again express our dismay over the Koller and Retzer decisions, and to let it be known that organization of student protest is not to end upon graduation. Plans have already been made to continue our protest into the new academic year. These plans seek not only an explanation but also a reversal of the Koller decision.

At this point, I can no longer pretend to be the detached observer of events of the last two weeks of spring term, 1979. I am a graduate student in sociology at the University of North Carolina, and am grateful to Davidson for having developed in me a desire to continue my studies—specifically, I am grateful to Dr. Koller for that inspiration. This professor was the individual who sparked my interest in sociology. It should seem obvious why I was totally amazed, and am still disgusted at the failure to grant Koller tenure. After careful review of the procedure for evaluating tenure, I cannot see how it was denied to Koller as it seems to me that he fulfills the criteria specified for the tenure: 1) teaching, 2) community involvement, and 3) professional attainments. In response to our petitions, Dr. Spencer reaffirmed that teaching was the primary criterion of evaluation. This only reinforced my confusion, because Koller is one of the finest teachers at this institution. Evidence of that fact is held in the student petition and numerous letters of support given him. I hate to rest on the cliché that the students know the professor’s teaching ability best, but I cannot avoid it. His excellent style in the classroom, accessibility to the student, challenging approach to sociology, and dedication to the student both inside and outside the classroom qualify Koller in the students’ eyes as fitting the primary qualification for tenure.

I welcome any comments, and will gladly elaborate on any points cited herein, to all those concerned. Students have already expressed, and will continue to express concern. Given that Dr. Koller satisfies all of these criteria, I still do not understand why he was denied tenure. Since both the criteria and Koller’s qualifications are a matter of public record, I do not see what special knowledge the administration has which could so totally contradict what seems evident to the student body. To be sure, we have received responses from the administration assuring us that due process was followed, but in the name of confidentiality the reasons for the denial of tenure cannot be divulged to us (but what precludes the administration from revealing the reasons to Koller is still a mystery, and can hardly be left under the heading of confidentiality). I object to this all too secretive process on several grounds: 1) confidentiality, despite its initial good intent, now seems to act more as a cloak of secrecy where reasons not covered by the Faculty Codeof Evaluation may be used to decide tenure at the discretion of the administration; 2) confidentiality further breaks down in its legitimacy when two very different conclusions are reached by the administration and student body, even when both use the same criteria for evaluation and similar sets of evidence. Administration support of confidentiality has been inadequate in offsetting these charges.

Another subject of protest has been the apparently immoral treatment of Koller and Retzer. Neither was given any indication that they were not performing adequately—until their letter of denial. The administration has attempted to clear itself of responsibility for this failure to review by citing the many different academic deans since these men’s arrival. Such a claim is not a valid excuse for the total shock leveled at these men, and is only an attempt at passing the buck. Deciding whose fault it was for the failure to “periodically evaluate” these men is not at issue. The fact that a wrong was committed is the issue, and as such, the explanation offered is not an excuse for incorrect action. No matter how many academic deans this college has had in the past seven years, there has been only one president, and I view the action, or inaction, of the administration as his responsibility.

This lengthy letter is necessary to make known the extent of student reaction to the tenure decisions, that the reaction will continue, the reasoning behind the reaction, and finally the dissatisfaction with administration responses. “Long term interests” are important, but not at the expense of devastating short term ones. I do not see how removing Dr. Koller from an already weak department can improve it in the long run. I know it has crippled the department in the short run. Sociology majors will agree with me, as they have expressed this opinion in more than one way. Reinstatement of Dr. Koller is a regretful step to be made.

Michael Kennedy, '79, majored in sociology while at Davidson.

Foolish words to the Freshmen Women
Bull Peeples

Dear girls of the class of '83: please savor this piece, for if modern Davidson history repeats itself, you will never again have such praises and criticisms heaped upon you as that which you will soon encounter. Every fall the sentiment attributed to freshmen women is similar—very positive. This year it is more gung-ho than ever. And, as always, upperclass women are jealous over incoming competition, but are nonetheless very gracious in their ultra-subjective opinions of you. Perhaps this is because you will soon join them in the mythical struggle against the girls of Queens, Converse, Salem, et al.

So, by the time you graduate, many of the girls already here will be your friends for life. The upperclass males, whom you now view as potential dates, you will regard four years from now as a kid brother, or the boy next door. In the meantime, enjoy and regret what follows.

A very preppy, junior male said, “I'm in love. Like at least fifteen times. Just tonight. And that’s coming from a married (almost) man.” Another male, on the five-year plan (so he ought to know better), reported, “they're kind of laid back, but I don’t know too many of ’em yet. Tell ’em I live on S. Main Street.” A senior woman, who also has dated just about everyone, said, “I think... they're a really neat bunch of girls. They ran really well in the cake race. They beat most of the guys.” A senior athlete who does know what he’s talking about said, “tell them I think they're good looking.” At the same time, a junior girl asked, “Are there females in the class of '83?”

Do not be distressed by the last observation, however. “They are definitely very pretty ones,” said a senior girl, “and they’re very with it, really preppy.” “I think they’re super,” reported the most beautiful freshman I have met to date. “The girls on my hall are wonderful. In the two short weeks I've been here, I feel like I’ve known them all my life. It’s incredible!”

A junior girl I questioned might very well have fit the description she gave me when she was a freshman. Her answer was, “I find they are the most aggressive assertive girls I've seen here, they're pushing on through.” One young lady, a senior, reported, “I heard one guy say some of them wear pants you have to plug in at night to make sure they are alive the next morning.” How would he know?

Above all else, girls of the class of 1983, never forget you are now Davidson girls, and hopefully will be for the next four short yet long years. Burn Humes to remind you that you are a rare breed, in so many ways. Find pleasure and...