THE nen “Magna vis veritatis” Volume LXIX, Number 3

Gifford Piercy had an outstanding game last Saturday, catching 11 passes for 174 yards against Lafayette.

New organization questions quality of education here
By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

Is Davidson spending its money wisely? Finding answers to this question is the goal of a new student group on campus, the Coalition for Better Education, according to member Steve Austin. The Coalition is the source of two posters seen on campus this week, one comparing the football budgets of Davidson and Southwestern at Memphis, the other noting a rise in Davidson’s student/faculty ratio.

The Coalition, which now has approximately 15 members, was organized early this fall out of casual discussion among its members, Austin said. According to member Susan Marynowski, the Coalition seeks to engender a re-evaluation of present College budget priorities through its efforts. Member Elliot Hipp said the Coalition members are concerned that “the priorities of the school aren’t being addressed the way the budget is now set up. There are major problems such as the rising student/faculty ratio, low faculty pay, and registration that should be of utmost concern.”

Group members feel, as Todd Stanford pointed out, that making a commitment to an area where we can’t question the value of “big time” athletics to any small college. They add, however, that they are not “anti-football” or against any other sport, but they do question the amounts of money spent on sports here.

“I go to every football game and I enjoy it,” says member Eugene Heath, “There are intrinsically good things to athletics, but not at the expense of academics.” Austin said that response to their group has been “encouraging.” The original members of the group included Austin, Tim Dwight, Heath, Hipp, Harold Lloyd, Marynowski, (See Coalition, Page 2)

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

Students will decide the fate of Davidson’s NC-PIRG chapter in a referendum to be held October 9. The referendum, voted in by the SGA Wednesday night, asks that students either approve or disapprove of PIRG’s continued existence and its funding procedures. Until this past year, four dollars were automatically added to each student’s comprehensive fee to fund PIRG.

PAC institutes student course evaluation forms to begin this term
By JOHN SIMAN
Assistant News Editor

Students will complete evaluation forms on all their professors beginning this term, according to Professional Affairs Committee Chairman Anthony Abbott. The new evaluation system will inform both the administration and the professors themselves about students’ reactions to courses, Abbott said.

Student evaluation forms were last used fall term 1975, when the forms were phased out, according to Sociology Professor Norm Koller. Although in January 1976, the faculty voted that a replacement should be found for the old form, no student evaluation system has been in operation since then, Koller said. Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said that, “It is specified in the Code (of Faculty Evaluation Procedures) that students have a role to play in the evaluation process.” Abbott also stated the need for student input on a “regular basis” through a “uniform system.”

The form has two parts. First, students respond to three “global” questions asked about all professors. The students: 1) rate the course content, 2) rate the instructor, and 3) rate the course in general. The data from the “global” questions will be used to inform the administration on student opinion. The second part of the form consists of 23 questions chosen by the professor being evaluated. The professor selects his questions from a master list of 623 questions, and only the professor himself is informed of the results, Abbott said. The purpose of this part, according to Zimmermann, is to enable “professors to improve their teaching in any way.”“possible.” The University of Illinois developed the form. Zimmermann and the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) selected it to be used at Davidson, Abbott said, “all agreed it was the best we could get.” Psychology Professor Brockway praised its “very reliable results.” He also pointed out that the forms have been carefully designed so that expected grades will have no bearing on the students’ ratings of professors. Brockway emphasized that the forms can help professors spot and correct their weaknesses. He used the form last spring term and included a question that asked if he spoke too fast. The response that students generally understood him well made him more confident in his lecturing.

The use of the forms was explained to the faculty Wednesday afternoon. On October 8, a meeting will be held for professors so they can comment on and raise further questions about the forms, Abbott said.

Bank introduces Wildcat checking
By ELIZABETH KISS
Staff Writer

Piedmont Bank and Trust, Davidson’s only bank, has added a new option for its checking account customers: the Wildcat Checking plan. According to Assistant Cashier and Loan Officer Frances Sherrill, the plan allows the account holder to write 1 to 10 checks for a monthly fee of $2. Additional checks are 20 cents each. There is no minimum balance required. Sherrill said the plan is designed for students who prefer to know exactly how much their service charge will be. It will help students who usually keep small amounts in their accounts.

The new plan is offered in addition to Piedmont’s regular checking system, which aroused mixed feelings among students when it was instituted in December 1978. Under the regular plan, there is a monthly service charge of $1 plus 20 cents per check, Sherrill said. A percentage of the average monthly balance, presently 5 percent annually, is then deducted from the fee. For example, if a customer had an average balance of $200 and wrote five checks, his or her service charge would be $2 minus one-twelfth of the annual interest rate of 5 percent, or 83 cents. The monthly payment would be $1.17. (See Piedmont Bank, Page 2)

Abbott added that the new forms “have not been adopted permanently.” They will be used for six terms and then re-evaluated by the PAC, he said. According to Abbott, a student can complete the form in about 20 to 30 minutes. Professors will distribute their forms near the end of the term. Abbott emphasized that students will not have to complete the forms during exam period, lest they regard the forms as a “nuisance” and give them cursory attention. Abbott said that the forms allow “a systematic sampling of student opinion.” Zimmermann added that the new system is a (See Evaluation, Page 2)

Future of Davidson NC-PIRG

Those not wishing to support PIRG had to deduct four dollars from the bill. College President Samuel Spencer decided last spring to change the funding system, which resulted in a drop of Davidson PIRG funds from $400 to $200. The $200 came from those who added the four dollars onto the bill themselves. Spencer has indicated that he will reverse his decision if the student body wishes. In the September 14 issue of The Davidsonian, he is quoted as saying, “If the student body wants (the old funding system), it will be reinstated. It is their choice.”

NC-PIRG State Co-Director Elisa Wolper said that unless the referendum is successful, PIRG will not have enough financial stability to continue operation at Davidson. She said, “It’s foolish to begin anything unless you know you will have the funds to complete it. The system provided us the security we need.” Wolper does not feel that PIRG’s special funding system is unfair. “If a majority of students are willing to support PIRG, and minority rights are protected, then it is a just system.” She said that those who (See PIRG, Page 2)