The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 19
Davidson College, Davidson, NC

THEY CALLED A MEETING AND NOBODY CAME.
The turnout at Tuesday's forum on the possibility of switching to a semester system was marred by low attendance. See story page 2.

Athletic budget released
By RICK JENKINS
Special to The Davidsonian

After years of keeping Davidson’s athletic budget under lock and key, the Spencer Administration did an about-flip and released it yesterday. Spencer explained that the budget had become such a frequent topic of speculation and discussion that he felt it would be less harmful to go ahead and release it than to allow people to continue to make wild guesses about it.

The football and basketball programs got the biggest appropriations, the figures indicated. Football received about 27 percent of the athletic budget, basketball received about 36 percent of the budget, physical education got about 11 percent.

“Our level of competition requires us to spend at least the present amount of money on football and basketball,” said Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill.

The gross expenditures for football and basketball in 1977-78 were not far apart, being $361,996 and $386,027 respectively. The net expense of each program, however, was quite distant: $234,642 for football and $309,890 for basketball. The figures revealed that this considerable difference existed because the Wildcat Club contributed $104,354 to the football program in 1977-78.

“Most of the Wildcat Club money goes to football, but we are trying to be fair to all of the coaches,” Cartmill said. A sidenote to the budget said that “approximately $40,000 in unbudgeted contributions are made by the Wildcat Club to (see Budget, page 11)

Trustees to face salary dilemma
By JIM GARRETT
News Editor

The Trustees will discuss whether to award the faculty salary increase on Saturday, according to Board of Trustees Chairman Warner Hall.

“We have a responsibility to the faculty and staff,” said Hall, in explanation of the decision to call a “special” meeting of the Trustees. Saturday’s “special” meeting is not an emergency measure, according to College President Samuel Spencer. “The Trustees simply want to further discuss the budget,” he said.

The Trustees met with professors McKelway, Manning, Davies, Ratliff, and B. Patterson at their winter meeting on February 22 and 23 to discuss a proposal to increase 1979-80 faculty salaries by ten percent.

McKelway presented a proposal “to maintain the present, unsatisfactory situation.” It called for an 8.5 percent increase to compensate for inflation, a “statement of policy” to restore past levels of real income, a one percent increase to demonstrate commitment to this policy, and a 0.5 percent increase in cases of special merit.

McKelway urged that “the faculty needs to believe that the Board will not accept as a permanent definition the present economic status of the faculty.” McKelway observed that real faculty income has dropped 15 percent in twelve years and four percent in the last two years. He said salaries are presently $5,800 below the average for Ph.Ds.

Physics Professor Robert Manning said “The Trustees must increase faculty salaries if (see Faculty, page 11)

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

John Jackson beat Andy Miller in Tuesday’s SGA presidential election. Richard Terry, who ran unopposed, will be the new SGA vice president.

As the race for the presidency developed, each candidate distributed literature that outlined his platform. Jackson’s stated: “I’m very excited about the changes and decisions that will be coming up at Davidson in the next year. I am confident that I have the enthusiasm and experience to run a very effective Senate, one that would ensure that the students’ voice was heard clearly as these campus decisions are made.”

In his platform Jackson stated that he supported a strong athletic program.Program, “but it must be appropriate for our school, both in expense and personnel.” He believes more money must be given to minor sports and women’s sports because “I think that the sports that Davidson can excel in are in these two areas.” He said it seems as if there is interest on campus for them but that “these teams just don’t have enough money to work with.” This Saturday there will be a Trustee meeting about athletics and the budget. Jackson stated that he will be talking to Thom Young, Bruce Brown, and College President Samuel Spencer, “to learn how to communicate with them.” He said, “It will be hard for me to speak on behalf of the whole student body or the Senate since the Senate is in transition. I will tell them that people I talked to when I went campaigning door to door indicated that they want the budget made public. I suspect that we will set up a committee to press the question because this will give us more time to present our views to them.”

Another part of Jackson’s platform was his desire to see an improvement in communications between Trustees and students. Jackson said that a problem with the last Trustee dinner was: “problems that we think Trustees are insensitive to are things they are not even aware of.” As a solution, Jackson suggested the Trustees visit Davidson in small groups of three or four, throughout the entire year. “They should bring their families, go to basketball games, have open-ends.” Jackson also supported in his campaign a merit-based admissions system. However, he said, “This is one thing that I can probably do the least about.” He pointed out, “If we had a referendum then the students would probably support it overwhelmingly. The Trustees recognize this so there’s no problem of communications. How- (see Jackson, page 11)

Athletic problems are complex, Cartmill, Biedenbach

By DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. Focus Editor

Amidst a growing controversy over athletic expenditures, the administration has decided to release a summary of the college athletic budget. The report, to be printed in this month's issue of the Davidson Update, will contain bottom line figures in general areas of expenditure, according to Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann. These areas include basketball, football, minor sports, and physical education. When asked why athletic budget figures have not been released for the past several years, Zimmermann replied, “such figures would only keep the fires burning.”

Complaints of the athletic budget, much of which has been voiced again recently, include a now famous article by Marian Leifsen in the March 5 issue of Sports Illustrated, describing the recruitment practices of college basketball coaches, labeled Davidson's recruiting style “exploitative and silly,” and Head Basketball Coach Eddie Biedenbach as “a high-pressure recruiter.” Leifsen's article provoked a flurry of letters in the magazine's following issue protesting her estimation of Davidson and Biedenbach. Biedenbach specifically denied many of Leifsen’s accusations. “I am not a high-pressure recruiter, though my assistants and I are thorough. If we think a player has the academic ability to make it here we try to do all we can to make sure he seriously considers Davidson.” Biedenbach further denied that Davidson accepted Jim Scaffidi, a friend of Leifsen’s son Tom, to ensure that Tom would play basketball for Davidson. “As I remember, Scaffidi was an excellent student and there were only four or five people on the waiting list so I asked Tony Boon if we could write and ask if he was still interested in coming. He turned us down. But he didn’t formally apply and never was accepted,” said Biedenbach.