Wilmer Hayden Welsh readies himself to present a recital of Spanish organ music. Dr. Welsh, Davidson professor of music and
College organist since 1936, has composed many musical works. His album, "The Wicks Organ Concert Series," is available in the
Student Store.

Watson-McKuen concert a hit
By BILL PEEPLES
Senior Features Editor

A packed house is the greatest compliment one can credit to a performance. Love Auditorium was filled to the bursting
point Friday night, where bluegrass fans flocked to hear Doc Watson and fellow artists. Watson is the Ray Charles of
bluegrass music. He is blind, but his sixth sense, the sense of music, is among the most acute the world
has produced. In an age where rock and new forms appeal to minorities and age groups, Watson and company comprise
the musical bastion of the nation’s majority group, citizens of Anglo-Saxon descent.

The music and lyrics that accompanied settlers from the British Isles became suppressed in the mountains and backwaters of the
new nation. Over time, styles changed and instruments from other cultures emerged, such as the dulcimer from Germany. The banjo,
commonly referred to as the only instrument that is uniquely American, was yet another addition. Whereas bluegrass is considered by
some to be the product of conservative hillbillies, it is, in fact, representative of many cultures, with that of Great
Britain dominating.

Recent change has also come to bluegrass, enabling it not only to survive but flourish. John McEuen, of the Dirt
Band, reflected this change at the concert. Alone on stage at the beginning of the performance, McEuen played his "Georgia,"
a moving ballad about a boy who wins a fiddling contest in Georgia. He also played selections from such Dirt
Band albums as "Dream" and the "Circle" album.

At the peak of the performance, McEuen and Watson were joined on stage by fiddler Vassar Clements and three talented
young artists sure to rise in acclaim. As requests for "Tennessee Stud" poured in from the audience, the patriarch Watson
yielded, saying, "Might as well go on and get that thing over with." The following rendition of Jimmy Driftwood’s most
famous number was incredible. With Vassar on fiddle, McEuen on banjo, one of the youngsters playing mandolin and yet another
tapping a washboard, Watson picked his guitar and belted out the "Stud."

Other selections included hymns from Watson's childhood, singing one church song without accompaniment. For a moment, Watson was no longer
a famous recording artist, but was indistinguishable from a backwoods preacher. The group added more variety with such Little Richard
numbers as "Blue Suede Shoes." One of the delightful aspects of bluegrass is that almost any music form can be
given and presented as bluegrass. Ovations brought the pickers back on stage twice. For the final encore, the audience joined
in singing A.P. Carter’s "Will the Circle be Unbroken."

The Davidsonian—January 19, 1979—7

Welsh to give Spanish organ recital Tuesday
By J.W. ARETINO
Davidson Staff Writer

"Art postulates communion, and the artist has an imperative need to make others share the joy which he experiences himself."
—Igor Stravinsky

Tuesday evening, January 23, at 8:15 in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, gifted organist and Davidson music professor Dr. Wilmer
Hayden Welsh will offer a unique recital consisting entirely of Spanish organ music. Dr. Welsh has just returned from a
sabbatical leave in Spain where he traveled.to numerous cities, devoting special study to organ music of the 15th, 16th, and
17th centuries. His work in Spain will be reflected in a book he is writing for undergraduate students studying organ.
Welsh’s decision to present a recital was based in part on studies with Juan-Alfonso Garcia, a modern Spanish organist and
composer. Garcia is somewhat of an authority on ancient Spanish organ works and an important composer in his own right.
A work by Garcia is featured in Welsh’s program. Spanish organ music presents an interesting merging of Christian and Islamic
cultures. Musical notation is characterized by “tablature,” or numbers representing keys, a trait unique to Spanish compositions. Ornamentation, such as
turns and trills, is a feature exemplifying Islamic influences. Visual color, rhythm, and vivacity are captured musically in a freedom
of style and elasticity notably Islamic in origin. Welsh’s program begins with a short introduction of slides, and a piece
by Antonio de Cabezon, a blind composer, organist, and harpsichordist who played in the courts of Charles V and Phillip
I. A work by Diego Jimenez, “Batalla in the Sixth Tone,” promises a special treat. The recital is free and
open to the public—an evening of beautiful music performed by a talented artist.

“Donkey” appeals to all
By LINDA HOOPES
Davidsonian Features Editor

Children have an amazing perspective on the world—they seem so intent on what they’re doing, and they see everything in
black and white, not the muddled grays of adulthood. The Dancing Donkey was written for children and presented by the
New Schoolhouse of the Arts in collaboration with the Davidson College Drama Department. It appealed to the children, and to
the “child” inside many of the adults who saw it. The performance began with the “Very Special Orchestra”—four musicians playing
wonderful songs on xylophones. These songs and all the others in the musically-oriented play are written by the cast. The
play itself was, purely and simply, fun! The “Scoundrel,” played with cunning devilishness by Rusty King and Joel Shirk, were,
in reality, good guys underneath. They were adoringly admired by the two giggly, fair but empty-headed damsels (Mary May Oliver
and Julie Webber). Billy Badd and Ernie Pugg, the scoundrels, steal the wonderful dancing donkey (Cindy Faulkenberry, who did an
amazing job dancing in a huge donkey’s costume) of the friar, played by Tom Bessellieu. The simple plot was easily
understood by the children, who cheerfully added their comments and opinions to the performance. The ending, of course, was happy.
The friar got his donkey, the girls got the guys, and the audience got to watch the children having a
wonderful time.

Clothes reveal character
UNIVERSITY PARK, PA (CPS)—“A woman wishing to be known as a feminist,” counsels Dr. Rebecca H. Holman, an assistant professor
at Penn State University, doesn’t necessarily even have to open her mouth. Holman, in a study of “the language of
clothes,” found that the clothes the woman wears will frequently do an adequate job of getting her point of view
across. Holman showed 200 male and female Penn State students seven pictures of the same model, dressed in seven different
styles of fashion. Each student saw only one of the photos, and was asked to respond to 33 statements describing
the woman pictured. None of the seven styles, Holman adds, were “revealing or provocative.” The students said the picture of
the model in jeans, sweater, and corduroy jacket showed a woman who was a leader, and one who was interested
in women’s liberation. The same model dressed in jeans and a v-neck sweater, though, was seen as...
