Saint Brown Patterson is a quiet, gentle man who has a bottle of sherry, six academic degrees, a nice library,
and a beautiful daughter, in that order. Of course, you'd have to be a saint, too, if you (AB Sewanee;
AB, MA Oxon; MA, PhD Harvard; BD The Episcopal Theological School) had to deal with Malcolm Lester Redivivus (AB Mercer—as
an English major—PhD and Phi Beta key, U.Va.). Brown is in quiet academic exile; Malcolm Lester, F.R.H.S. can’t get rid
of him because he’s so doggone nice.

Patterson as a professor is a C-plus lecturer, and is a stickler on dates. His courses usually mess up Humanities
students, who are flying if they can place a historical event in the right century. He is a good, if
unexciting, weekend priest—his sermons at the Episcopal Church are infinitely shorter than the Scot-Irish Calvinistic garbage at DCPC. That and
his studies with C.S. Lewis at Oxford are probably why they don’t let him teach religion—after all, more people have
heard of Lewis than Sandy’s Karl Barth. But though B.P. could teach English (with the Oxford A.B. and M.A.) better
than most of the English department, could teach religion more civilly than the Religion department, and teaches history better than
whatever's left of the History department, he’d never complain. After all, it’s not civil.

And anyone who married his Harvard Latin tutor, and gets his jollies from defending queer King James Stewart is certainly
civil, though unfortunately, not forceful. But when you're going first class on the Anglican ship to heaven, why worry about
the Presbyterians in moral steerage?

If Goldie Locks doesn’t quit pumping iron and playing on student flickerball teams, Ed Farrell’s scouts just may notice him.

Spencer

Knew Ron Linden was a Jew all along.

Zimmermann

Dr. Zimmerman has the distinction of being the only member of the history department with a hang-up for brown, smokey,
phallic symbols.

Bernard

Professor's Comment:

I really enjoy mathematics, but I hate like the dickens for a teacher to intimidate students by being so dad-blamed
fast working problems on the board. Most of it is simply so much hand-waving, you see. So I try not
to pull any rabbits out of the hat; just set up the problems and turn the crank, and if I
can’t solve it, maybe somebody else in the class can.

Student Comments:

Dr. Bernard (pronounced BER-nerd) is probably the man to have for Math 25/26. He doesn't check homework, he's generally sympathetic
to his students’ problems, and his reviews aren’t bad. Expect a real killer for an exam, though. He is generous
with his time and help and wears some really neat hats, but most remarkable is his uncanny ability to draw
circles on the chalkboard.

A beaming Tonia Devon receives a fellowship at the T.C. Price Zimmermann Institute for Satyagraha Studies.

Jackson

Bruce's smile may not be as obvious as Jimmy Carter's, but it sure is more deceiving.

King

Martin Luther King’s illegitimate brother, Lunsford Richardson King, is famous for his memorable, yet unbelievable anecdotes: “Math is fun. The
calculus is fun. The calculus is simple.” Dick obviously consumed too much yellow snow during his Dartmouth days.

Or perhaps something else affected his feeble mind. Maybe he went nuts when the Davidson wrestling team broke his coccyx
in January, preventing any bowel movements for two weeks.

Other possibilities include his worn out, outgrown, khaki pants that have strangled his groin and cut off the blood supply
to his brain.

Maybe it all began when Professor Minter, recovering from surgery for collapsed eyeballs, ran his car into King while taking
a bike ride. Specialists at Charlotte Memorial Hospital worked round the clock to sew his severed head back on.

Freshmen who take King for Math 25 will find that math is not fun. They will discover a demented professor
who is still mentally and emotionally in prep school.

Klein

Dr. Klein’s uniqueness has been postulated, but a proof has not yet been discovered. He has a hearty disdain for
the obvious, and a love of the subtle. His lectures are interesting, but not very useful when it comes test
time. But he really is a nice guy, a fair grader, and an enthusiastic mathematician.

Not so?
