**STORY. 4 NUGG**

Editors note: This week the Davidsonian enjoyed the golden opportunity to interview two UNCC basketball players, one a current NBA
great—"Cornhead" Maxwell, and the other only a so-so Sun Belt player, "Bad Chad" Kinch. Their comments, although often failing to
reflect what they actually intended to say because of their limited vocabularies, nevertheless do illustrate just how important the Davidson
game is to the Mean Green. With the big game now less than a week away [Monday night at the
Coliseum], we hoped that this interview might spark some interest within the student body, and maybe even chase a few
more rats out of the library and into the Coliseum.

BB&B: First to Chad, with the year-long build-up leading into Monday night’s big game against Davidson, do you think you
and the other 49ers might be a little psyched out and perhaps even forced out of your game plan entirely?

Bad Chad: Well, you know, it happens sometimes, you know, like when we were on that road trip, you know,
like the one to Montana. Yeah, I think like that game, you know, but then it was also real cold,
too. Is that kind of what you were asking?

BB&B: That will suffice, Chad. Also, we were interested if you had any special plan to stop the Wildcats' leading
scorer, John Gerdy?

Bad Chad: Well, I’ve only seen him play one time before and that was against Connetissius or someone and he
had like 71 points or something. All I know is that if he comes out hitting, I am going to
get off of him so the people in the stands can’t tell that I am the one who is...

BB&B: Chad, we have heard numerous explanations as to why your head has its bizarre shape. Some anthropologists claim that
you might be a distant relative of the Java Man or perhaps Cro-Magnon Man. However, some sociologists argue that you
just suffered from several severe street beatings while growing up in the ghetto.

Bad Chad: I'm glad you asked me that so that now and once and for all I can stop all
these rumors. My head got its funky shape from when I was little and would always be sleeping with my
lid on. Momma warned me that it would make my head weird, and I guess I should have listened.

BB&B: Cornhead, what do you think of the upcoming Davidson-UNCC contest?

Cornhead: It will be really interesting to see if Coach Lee Rose really has the team ready to play an
interesting game. I know that Bad Chad, Popcorn, Bullseye, Phil, Sonny, and little Sonny are all really ready to play
a really interesting game.

BB&B: Cornhead, ah, Lee Rose is no longer the coach at UNCC; Mike Pratt is the new head man. Cornhead,
what was your biggest thrill while at UNCC?

Cornhead: Probably, Debra Johnston.

BB&B: No, we mean on the court, what was your biggest thrill?

Cornhead: Ah, I guess beating that drunk driving rap.

BB&B: No, no, Cornhead, not in court, we mean on the court, what was your biggest thrill as a college
basketball player?

Cornhead: Ah, gee, that’s a hard one, I guess...I would have to say the Marquette game when Jerome Whitehead put
one right in my face at the buzzer, or maybe it was when we beat New Hampshire in the finals
of the CIT.

BB&B: We appreciate both of you giving up the time to do this interview. Is there anything else either of
you want to add?

Cornhead: No.

Bad Chad: Yea, I just want to make sure everyone comes out to the game Monday night for there is
going to be some bad smack going down on both sides.

The IMAC Cage regular season has drawn to a close and the tournament pairings have been posted by the little
Napoleon of IMAC, Sterling Martin. Bad Bernard and Bonehead had a skull session, and then posted the following odds and
capsule summaries on the top teams!

SAE—2:1—A strong starting five, but no bench. Stoney Reuning could be the key to this team’s championship if he comes
out of an early retirement.

Bye—2:1—No team in the league can match up with Bye across the front line, but then who can’t match up
with their backcourt. One more good guard for Bye and there would not be any need to have a tourney
this year.

Old Men—3:1—This team lacks height but makes up for this deficit with assorted jabs, hooks, and crosses directed at other
players. The Old Men definitely have two of the league’s finest talents in Eddie B. and “Bullet Bob” McKillop, but
at the same time they also have some of the finest hacks.

Excitable Boys—4:1—Must get by Bye to have a shot at the title. Plenty of talent here, but age is already
beginning to show on a couple of players. If K.D. gets hot, however, it could be all over.

Wagon Ho—5:1—Have to plough through Old Men and the SAE’s to get to finals. Have shown they could play when
they nipped the Excitable Boys earlier in the year. In Sinclair, they have one of the premier players in IMAC.

Cool Breeze—10:1—To pull it off this team must have a super effort from both McLain and Whitmire. However, at best
they are a longshot.

The Hole—12:1—Even if Ford and Strader hit everything they throw up, it will take a miracle for these guys to
get past Bye.

The King Tuts—15:1—Even Freshman of the Year, Tony “King Tut” Langley is not enough to pull this team over the
SAE’s. It’s too bad that the Hole won’t have a chance to avenge their earlier loss to the Tuts.

That’s all for now, so get out of here. Later.

PRINT SALE
framed & unframed
UP TO 30% OFF

The Copeland House Gallery
10 a.m.-5 p.m.
305 N. Main St., Davidson

THOMAS HAIRSTYLING
new triangle cut
HAIRPIECES
UNIPERM
STRAIGHTENING
CAPILO TREATMENT

BRING THIS COUPON AND GET $1.00 OFF ON ANY CUT AND DRY

Hours: 9:00 to 7:00 Monday - Friday
9:00 to 4:00 Saturday
For appointment call: 875-1553
HUNTERSVILLE SHOPPING CENTER
