_ THE DAVIDSONIAN | Founded 1914

Apartheid at Davidson

This week across the nation college students are protesting American corporate support of apartheid in South Africa. Somewhere between 1 and 3 billion American dollars are currently tied up in the South African economy, and extremists seem to somehow believe that the lot of blacks in that troubled nation will improve if American companies pull out. In an attempt to force the American companies to leave, many of the student protesters are trying to get their particular college or university to divest itself of investments in corporations that do business in South Africa.

Has even heard about this week’s national anti-apartheid campaign? If students have heard about it, they certainly haven’t done anything. No rallies have been held. In the wake of the near disaster at Three Mile Island, Davidson students seem much more interested in the ongoing construction of nearby McGuire Nuclear Station than in indirectly combating legally-sanctioned racism in a small country thousands of miles away. This is natural and to be expected.

Yet it is important for a Southern college not to forget the problems of South Africa, however more immediate and alarming the nuclear issue, because those problems are a grimy mirror held up to our own regional past. To ignore Soweto is to forget Birmingham.

Davidson is not doing what it should be doing, certainly not what it could be doing, on the South African investment issue. When Davidson’s Trustees recently approved an investment policy, the college got a lot of good publicity it did not deserve. Wire stories issued at the time made it sound as if Davidson had made the difficult moral decision not to invest in South African corporations, when the college never had any such investments to begin with and there is no evidence it ever intended to obtain them.

Actually, the Trustees’ investment policy is meaningless, and if it does a single thing, it merely camouflages the fact that Davidson is not actively going to do anything about social injustice in South Africa. The policy statement, in part, reads, “American corporations with South African operations should work to ameliorate the consequences of apartheid.” This is certainly a very nice statement, but what does it mean? Nothing.

Board Chairman Warner Hall freely admitted on the day the investment policy statement was issued that the college isn’t going to send letters to the South-African-related corporations in which we own stock, telling them to start ameliorating consequences. Only if the corporation itself sends Davidson a referendum ballot on an issue directly concerning South Africa, will the college step in. And even then it will only use its proxy rights to express its will on apartheid.

And what seems to us to be even worse, the Trustees said they “approve” of the six Sullivan principles—six rigorous guidelines (which were originally proposed two years ago by the Rev. Leon H. Sullivan of Philadelphia) for corporations to use in trying to improve the lot of blacks in South Africa—without even bothering to suggest that Davidson would use its influence to urge corporations to live up to them.

The Sullivan principles are important and sensible. They stress constructive action, such as improving black housing and training more blacks to fill managerial positions, and tacitly discourage irresponsible and destructive actions such as attempting to wreck the South African economy. The whole point of the Sullivan principles is not that colleges “approve” them, but that colleges, universities, and church organizations use their influence to force corporations to comply.

Do colleges like Davidson really have influence? “Many companies have written me that they would not sign the principles, but have changed their minds and signed them after hearing from organizations with stock in their portfolios,” Sullivan was recently quoted in the Chronicle of Higher Education. 

We are dead wrong in our complacency. But students at Davidson, and the number at Davidson who want to do anything, seem to be avoided. There is no indication that anyone at Davidson wants to do anything.

MARGULIES

The Campus Forum

To the Editor:

We are writing in response to Dr. Brown Patterson’s letter of the 23rd. He states that a persistent problem of the College is “that there is no agreed-upon standard of student conduct in the dormitories or in college-owned houses in Davidson. A related problem is that even if there were such a standard there is no agency, organization, or group to enforce it.”

In response to this, we would like to quote The Code of Responsibility. The Preamble paragraph two is as follows: “The code of responsibility is based upon the...Belief that Davidson’s educational purpose can best be advanced in a context which emphasizes freedom as opposed to license. “The aim of this code is to encourage individuals to develop responsible judgment capable of directing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions. An elaborate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity to the standards of behavior desired, but would not effectively serve to develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the college. Rather, responsible maturity is more likely to develop when a member of the college community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principles of conduct and to accept full responsibility for his own actions and decisions.”

Dr. Patterson asserts that the Code speaks in general and not specific terms; we assert that it details various responsibilities, in some ten sections, ranging from academic to social. How much detail does Dr. Patterson seek? Finally, Dr. Patterson states that there is no organization to enforce a code of student conduct. In the procedures for the governance of student conduct established by the Trustees, section IV deals specifically with this problem. It essentially states that each dorm will have a Residence Hall Council responsible for maintaining regulations and management of the dorm. He is the first to deal with violations, and, if he is unsuccessful, will refer them to the Dean of Students who has the option of taking action or referring them to the Honor Council. Like the Honor Code, the Code of Responsibility must be maintained by the students. We feel that the measures of freedom provided by these two Codes make campus life anything but “poor, nasty, brutish, and short.” In fact, the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility provide for a “civilized mode of behavior” at Davidson that would probably be unmatched by any other school of our academic caliber, be it small liberal arts or large state university. It is unfortunate that some members of the faculty have taken a few isolated incidents and, blowing them up to gross proportions, have made them characteristic of the whole of the student body.

Ed Gaynor ’81
Mark Hayes ’81
Matt Kenney ’81

Athletics

Davidson is in danger of becoming a college only for the wealthy. Well, it is almost there now. Athletics, especially football and basketball, provide many students with their only means to attend a private institution such as Davidson. In addition, a strong athletic program has proven to be the best tool in attracting blacks to Davidson. Attempts by the admissions people in drawing blacks to Davidson fall conspicuously short of what the football and basketball recruiters have done and will continue to do as long as their budgets are maintained. One should not forget that the athletes recruited by Davidson are students as well.

Ed Imbrogno '81
Steve Risley '80
Mark Tommerdahl ’80

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200 words) and clarity.

To the Editor:

We fear that the recent criticisms concerning the size of the athletic budget as compared to the total budget and in face of rising tuition might lead to a cutback in the athletic budget. Unfortunately, good athletic programs, like good academic programs, cost a lot of money. A strong athletic program is essential in maintaining a vital, healthy college atmosphere. Athletics, for both the participant and the spectator, provide a very beneficial release from the pressures and tensions of such an academically oriented college as Davidson. Davidson is a small college in a small town. With such a great emphasis on academics, life for many can become very tedious and boring. For us uncultured souls, lectures and films do not improve the situation. Participation on one or more athletic teams and the active support of other teams is healthy and fun.

Charles Erwin, Editor
Bob Peeples, Executive Editor
Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Ralph Lisley, Managing Editor
Denise McLawhorn, Senior News Editor
Meredith Durden, Senior Features Editor
Barry Sacharow, Senior Sports Editor
George Murdaugh, Senior Opinion Editor
Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Jen Garrett, News Editor
Ann Garner, Features Editor
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor
Sheri Gravett, Opinion Editor
Margaret Hunter, Features Graphics Editor
Diane Odom, Sports Graphics Editor
Margaret Jackson, Opinion Graphics Editor
Larry Morton, Advertising Manager
Karen Long, Circulation Manager
Mark Hess, Asst. Executive Editor
Mark Barrett, Asst. News Editor
Jean Soracco, Asst. Features Editor
Taine Allison, Asst. Features Editor
Rob Gilson, Asst. Sports Editor
Howard Browne, Asst. News Graphics Editor
Marion Robertson, Asst. Features Graphics Editor
Karen Sandin, Asst. Opinion Graphics Editor