Cats look for third straight win at USC; meet the UNCC Green Machine

By BRIAN KELLEHER and DAVID NEISLER
Staff Writers

The surging Davidson Wildcats face two stern tests this week in South Carolina and UNCC, following two straight impressive victories over conference opponents.

Last Monday night, the Cats knocked off the Moccassins of UT-Chattanooga by a 70-64 score. A crowd of approximately 3,000 turned out for the final Johnston Gym appearance of seniors John Gerdy and Pat Hickert. Gerdy treated the crowd to one of his finest performances by scoring 36 points (his highest total ever at Johnston Gym) and grabbing seven rebounds.

The Cats trailed 36-33 at halftime, as Chattanooga’s Norman Anchrum penetrated the Davidson defense for several easy baskets. With 15:32 left in the second half, UT-C led 44-40. From that point on, however, it was all Davidson. An aggressive defensive effort by the Cats held Chattanooga without a field goal for eight minutes, and the lead changed hands. With 7:57 left, Davidson moved ahead by seven. Chattanooga’s hopes for a rally were dashed by another drought of 3:20 without a field goal. Meanwhile, Gerdy hit his last nine shots from the floor to ice the game for the Cats.

In addition to Gerdy’s performance, Todd Haynes had 22 points and eight rebounds, as he and Gerdy combined for 31 of Davidson’s 37 second-half points. The Cats finished their Southern Conference season with a 3-7 record.

The Chattanooga game followed a devastating Davidson triumph over VMI in a regionally televised game last Saturday. The Cats picked up their first road win of the season by featuring a balanced offensive attack. Gerdy, Haynes, and Brian Rowan combined for 46 points, and Jamie Hall dominated the boards with 14 rebounds. The final score was 81-54.

On Saturday Davidson will again play in a regionally televised game, facing the Gamecocks of South Carolina in Columbia. USC features 6’9” forward Cedric Hordges, guard Zam Frederick, and Furman transfer Jim Strickland, who have led the Gamecocks to yet another winning season. USC will be out to avenge last season’s loss to Davidson in Charlotte.

Monday night, the Cats take on cross-town rival UNC-Charlotte at the Coliseum. The 49ers are 12-9 for the season, led by guard Chad Kinch and forward Phil Scott. A sellout crowd is expected for the first meeting ever between the two teams. Over 4,000 UNC-Charlotte students are expected to attend, so a good student turnout by Davidson will be important.

Cattes lose to Gardner-Webb and Duke; to play UNC-G at home

By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor

The Lady Cagers suffered two losses this week, lowering their record to 3-16. The first game was a 70-48 loss to Gardner-Webb. Trailing 47-14 at the half, the girls played an impressive second half by using the running game to outscore their opponents. Unfortunately, it was not enough.

Monday, the girls traveled to Duke. The final score was 78-25 in favor of the Blue Devils. Sarah Womack had 12 points and Donna Ferren added 8 more. The girls close the regular season with a home game against UNC-Greensboro on Friday, February 16.

Monday, February 16, 1979—The Davidsonian

From the looks of things, this shot did not become two of John Gerdy’s 36 points against UT-Chattanooga. [Bill Purcell]

Swim team takes 12-3 record to S.C. championships

By BOB GOULD
Staff Correspondent

Devotion. It’s that one element in the Sportsworld that makes men out of boys, makes the shins of swimmers bleed. In what might seem an extreme sign of devotion to some, the Davidson swim team is carefully shaving down in preparation for the Conference meet at Furman this weekend. Shaving down eliminates drag (friction) in the water. Swimmers are willing to sacrifice their body hair, along with a few nicks and cuts, to the Swim God who lives in the depths of Lake Norman. In this way, the Wildcats will be granted faster times.

What higher force motivates these Davidson gentlemen to aspire to such a routine? Devotion. By far her most devoted team in her five years as coach, Pat Miller’s swimmers closed out the regular season with a 12-3 record. In their best season yet, the Wildcats “didn’t get beaten badly at any time;” a total of only 21Points accounted for their three losses. The Catfish’s biggest loss came last weekend against Georgia State. With a 42-37 lead, “all hell broke loose” in the last three events. It is not that they were swimming poorly, Georgia State happened to be particularly strong in those events. Mike Shremmer took first place in the thousand free, breaking the school record with a time of 10:13.38. Mark Tommerdahl placed second in that event and first in the 200 fly. Paul Voight and Craig Allen finished first and second in the 100 free. Freshman Warren Beck broke the school record in the 200 backstroke (2:06.6). Mrs. Miller’s Killers defeated Emory and Georgia Tech last weekend with little trouble. Against Emory, they took 11 of 13 first places to win 79-34. Against Georgia Tech, they took 10 of 13 first places and defeated the Yellow Jackets 76-37. Coach Miller is hoping for the “best finish we’ve ever had” at Conference this Thursday. Clearly, if the Catfish can outswim archrivals Appalachian and Citadel, a second-place finish seems imminent. Marshall University is the only team that stands between the Wildcats and the Southern Conference title. Will Pat shave her head if her boys win Conference? She refused to comment.

The swimmers got one-twoed in “Catcall.”

John Haskell Nee

Any average guy will tell you that the intellectual value of sports is negligible. He’ll tell you how sports are pretty much devoid of social importance. He’ll also say that sporting activity is just an outlet, and that it is far removed from the stark realities of life like politics, war, and pestilence. But, I must contend, there is a lurking cerebral aspect of sports that is hidden from all but the most avid of enthusiasts. In a word, it is trivia. It is practiced everywhere among these enthusiasts. It happens in bars, benches, and particularly in buses. Even right here among our own Davidson student-athletes, the spare time on road trips is passed away with trivia in any other field. There are lists, lineups, numbers, nicknames, myriads of statistics, hometowns, colleges, broken records—so many things with which to make questions. Sure, movies and popular music can give you a great many obscure things to talk about, but only in sports can so much be done with the reams of information. The idle mind can really have a field day.

Trivia is not a truly integral part in all sports. Basketball and football, for instance, are fast-paced sports, without much idle time, and the individuals don’t stand out quite so much because of the team-oriented nature of the sports. Sure, there are plenty of areas for questions, like scoring averages, or who has committed the most fouls in an NBA season; nevertheless, trivia isn’t really a major part of these sports. In sports like swimming, tennis, or track, trivia has also failed to become an essential part, probably because no one really cares about those sports anyway.

In baseball, though, trivia has truly reached an exalted state. It’s not because baseball is an especially intellectual game, but rather it is because of its pace. Baseball is a slow game. There’s plenty of spare time between innings, during pitching changes, or when the manager or catcher confers with the pitcher. There are also lots of games and long road trips. There’s time to lay back and reflect in baseball. Also, the game is such that it lends itself to record numbers of pinch hitters. The number of one.

The last unassisted triple play in baseball, performed by Ron Hansen of the Washington Senators in 1968. This play truly illustrates the wealth of trivia talent in baseball. You could start with the obvious questions like where did it happen, who hit into it, and who was on base. Then you can go on to hardcore questions like who were the umpires, who were the radio broadcasters, and which players' wives on the team were pregnant at the time. As you can plainly see, a simple play can generate a wealth of trivia. Imagine what one can do with a whole week of games.