Author Caroline Bird will discuss the evolving facets of marriage and —

Service Corps Fund Drive: short & sweet

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

Bewildered by the problem of what to do with any extra cash you have on hand? Well, the Y is starting the year with its annual fund drive to raise the money needed for its various activities.

“The change challenge held last spring lacked good response,” said treasurer Elizabeth Medlin, “and is the reason for the upcoming drive Monday through Wednesday, September 17-19. It will be short but very intense.”

In the past, the average faculty donation has been $5.00 a person, while the students averaged only thirty cents a person. “Because it is a student organization, it would be nice to see student takeover during the drive,” said Medlin.

The fund drive will involve a door-to-door campaign. Medlin feels that the personal contact is extremely important. “The campaigners will be able to answer questions about the Y and ask for student support in time as well as money.”

Student involvement with the Davidson campus and community is the purpose of the Y.

Some of the opportunities offered by the Y include tutoring, working with the elderly, recycling, and visiting prison inmates.

“If anyone wants to participate in something,” said Medlin, “just let any of us know.” This year’s officers are L.C. Brewster, president; Anne Stanback, vice-president; Elizabeth Medlin, treasurer; and Karen Hester, secretary. Dr. David Shi and Rush Otey are the Advisors.

The Y meets every other Monday at 9:00 p.m. in Morrison Room.

By ANN TUTWILER
Staff Writer

Imagine yourself ten years hence, degreed from Davidson, probably married and hopefully working. And if current trends continue, your spouse will probably work too. The two paycheck family is becoming more common every year.

Today there are more women working outside the home than inside. “Women are joining the labor force, not to express themselves or get rid of their husbands, but for the same reasons men work — for money!”

Caroline Bird, an authority on the economics of working women, takes a hard look at the impact of dual career couples in her latest book The Two Paycheck Marriage.

Featured on NBC’s Today Show, the book “attests to new ways of thinking about sex and power, household and financial management, family planning and child care.”

According to Ms. Bird, the second paycheck not only frees women from full-time careers as housewives, but liberates men from the burden of supporting a family.

Traditionally obedient family men must no longer follow their employer's dictates out of economic necessity.

Marriage will, according to Bird, become less an economic arrangement and more a personal arrangement. As the years pass, “there will be fewer and better marriages, fewer and more cherished children and a choice of ways for individuals to get support, financial and emotional, that was formerly provided by the traditional family.”

Not that the future is entirely rosy for the working couple.

Bird acknowledges that divorce will increase, “since a woman with income of her own is less likely to stay in an unsatisfactory marriage, and, if the marriage is satisfactory, that income, which often allows families to outpace inflation, threatens traditional relationships.”

Older couples pretend nothing has happened, using her paycheck for “special purposes” or pooling incomes. Contemporary couples bargain and split expenses. But, “no matter how you cut it, the second paycheck presents difficulties to most couples.”

Ms. Bird, also author of the controversial Case Against College, will be on campus September 20, sponsored by the Union Speakers Committee.

There will be a luncheon in the Morrison Room at 1:00 p.m., conversation in the pit at 4:00, and a lecture, involving interviews with two community career couples in Love at 8:00, followed by coffee in the Morrison Room.

What Do You Want From College?

Management Training? Add It To Your Schedule.

You’re career oriented. You’re interested in management.

You're an individual seeking experience in problem analysis, requiring decision-making results. You want management training and leadership experience. Experience that will be an asset in a management career — or any career you may choose.

If you are this individual, you can get all of this experience through the adventure of Army ROTC.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:

CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170