teatlag’) scorer y DiBieieddatte has accumulated a few honors this week. (Brad Kerr)

THE VILLAGE STORE
“MERRY CHRISTMAS and A HAPPY NEW YEAR”

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Davidson spread the point total over almost the entire bench last night in an 83-64 victory over Eckerd to up the record to 4-2. Rich Wilson and Todd Haynes were the top scorers in the effort while Jamie Hall snatched down 12 rebounds. The team as a whole shot 57% from the floor, 65% in the first half, which provided a spark of offense that could have been used in other games.

Rich DiBenedetto, Davidson’s leading scorer and the prime figure in Davidson’s offense thus far, was out of last night’s game because of an illness. Coach Eddie Biedenbach took this opportunity to allow his entire team to see a great deal of action. “Sometimes along the way,” Biedenbach said, “we’re going to have to play without somebody and not suffer. Tonight we just let everybody play for us to see how much they could contribute. I’m very pleased with the game, but our defense is still not good enough.”

Although DiBenedetto missed this game, he received two awards during the week for his effort in the first five games. He was named Southern Conference Player of the Week and also received the Most Valuable Player Award in the First Union Invitational.

Southern Conference opponents Furman and Marshall come up back to back this coming week and are important to see if Davidson has a chance to get into the upper level of the Southern Conference. The Furman game is Saturday night in Charlotte with a 7:30 p.m. tip-off. The Marshall game is on the road Monday night. Baylor is the next opponent with a 1:30 p.m. game in Waco, Texas, on December 29.

Another outstanding job by BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
“Good Builders Since 1925”
384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115
Exec. Vice President & Secretary M.A. Wicker
President & Treasurer Ben L. Millsaps

appeared a bit-sh December 14, 1979—The Deen

Biedenbach uses bench in Eckerd win

Cats return to Charlotte for a battle with the ACC and N.C. State. Game time for this New Year's Eve game is 7:30 p.m. Two more SC games are on the bill in early January. Davidson meets East Tennessee in Charlotte on January 2. VMI, a team the Cats have already defeated this season, comes to Johnston Gym January 7 after classes have begun.

“Those first two with Furman and Marshall will set the tone for us,” Biedenbach said, “to see if we have a chance to sneak in the first division in the conference. After the VMI game, we'll have a pretty good idea of how we'll do the rest of the season.” He added that the toughest part of the season comes up in January and February.

Davidson took a 2-0 record into the first round of the First Union Invitational last Friday night against Pennsylvania and came away with the third win of the season, 71-62. The game, according to Biedenbach, was a “satisfying one” for the team, fans, and everyone else connected with Davidson. In the championship game Saturday night, the Cats met cross-county rival UNC-Charlotte and came away with only

Girls win one,
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcattes played their first divisional game Tuesday night against Methodist College but the CattesLost, 64-44. This was the fifth game of the season for Methodist, but only Davidson’s second. In the first half, the two teams had identical shooting percentages, 42%, and although Davidson was never at the line, they were only behind by one at halftime, 31-30. In the second half, Methodist slowly pulled away, although they didn’t blow open the score until the last 4 minutes when they ran fast break after fast break. The leading scorer for Davidson was guard Mitzi Short, who had 12 points. Also for Davidson, Carol Heppner and Anna Hutchinson both had 6 points, Jeanne Womack had 4 points, and Mike Frankhouser and Sarah Womack had 8 each. The Cattes never went to the foul line.

The Cattes picked up a win, however, when the Owls of Warren Wilson came to Davidson Tuesday night and were devoured by the Cattes, 64-45. The Wildcattes will take a 2-1 record home with them for Christmas. The game was fairly close in the first half, with neither team shooting well, but the Wildcattes managed to top at halftime by 6 points, 30-24. The Wildcatte offense was led by Sarah Womack’s 30 points. She also had 13 rebounds and 6 steals. Mitzi Short had 12 points, Kirby Owen had 6 points, and Jeanne Womack and Laura Terry each had 4. The team will return to Davidson on January 2 to get ready for their next home game on Wednesday, Jan. 9, against Bennett College, a division opponent.

The Cats waltzed to a 104-82 win. There were numerous reasons for the loss, such as superb shooting by UNC-C (36 for 40 at the foul line) and relatively poor shooting by Davidson. Biedenbach pointed to the transition defense as being one of the main problems. He said the team was not recovering quickly enough after missed shots and turnovers to provide an adequate defense against a running and talented team like UNC-C. SC foe Western Carolina also took advantage of the transition defense as well as other Davidson mistakes to hand what Biedenbach called “one of the most disappointing losses I’ve ever had.” Western Carolina won 74-62. Three Davidson starters personified the outside shooting problem facing the Cats. Hall went 1-8 from the field, John Carroll went 1-7, and Ernie Reigel went 1-4. “We have some good shooters,” Biedenbach said, “but we have to be more selective in our shots. We have to be more aggressive in our offensive play. Our defensive effort is better, but we have too far to go.”

Cat swim team beats Smith 65-42
By CRAIG WHITE
Staff Writer

“Swimming 8000 yards a day can wear a swimmer down,” Riddle said, “so our times do not reflect what they will be during the regular season. Soon after our Florida trip, our times should drop considerably.” From the above quotation, one might be surprised to find out that the Davidson swimmers completely demolished Johnson C. Smith University 65-42 Monday afternoon at the Davidson pool. The Wildcats placed first and second in almost all events, except those events where the Cats entered unofficially so as not to run up the score. It would have been the lack of student interest in the meet. As Riddle points out, “It would have boosted our morale quite a bit if the students had been solidly behind us.”