Finish 8th in S.C.
Track team ends
season at Relays

By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor

Davidson's track team finished its season last weekend when it participated in the Southern Conference Relays at Appalachian State. Virginia Military Institute took first in the relays. Davidson placed eighth, one point behind Western Carolina.

Although the team did not place well collectively, there were some outstanding individual efforts. Lance Sisco set a school record of 14.1 seconds in the 110 meter high hurdles and placed third in the meet.

Dave Jones placed sixth in the intermediate high hurdles. Willie Lanier took fifth and sixth in the shot put and discus, respectively. Dave Nichols was sixth in the hammer—quite a feat considering this is his first year of participation in the event.

Robert Frierson and John Hoots each set personal records in the 800 meters but finished last in their respective heats.

“People performed up to their potential,” said coach Karl Kremser. “That’s what we were aiming at.” Kremser is also looking toward the future: “We’ll have all our points back next year and some new runners.” He said, “Gradually we’re building a track team.”

This year, the team finished 0-3 in dual meet competition.

May 4, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

Junior Harry Griffith nearly became the first Davidson player in recent memory to win the S.C. no. 1 singles.

Lacrosse has big plans for next season

By BRYAN KELLEHER
Staff Writer

The Davidson students unfortunately missed one of spring's best spectator sports this year because the lacrosse team didn't play any home games. But don’t worry fans; team captain Alex Evans promises at least four for next year.

Evans is optimistic even though the team only played three games this year; that is more than they have played in recent years. The lacrosse team started about five years ago, but a lack of players has kept it from gaining stability.

This year is different, though, because most of the growing team is comprised of freshmen and sophomores who will continue to play. Evans says that the team now has good talent. The team competed this year with NCAA affiliated teams such as Guilford with only two practices a week.

Next year, Evans says that he can schedule around eight games, with four at home, now that the team has shown that it is competitive. The team will also have new equipment next year. Outgoing senior Rob Perz, who has gone through the lean years, commented, “We've had a lot more players and enthusiasm this year, and I can now see the team going NCAA in the future.”

THE MANY ADVENTURES OF WINNIE THE POOH

PLUS A HILARIOUS DONALD DUCK CARTOON

G

Friday, May 4.

Love Auditorium

$1.50 or season pass

8:00 and 10:30

Griffith plays no. 1 final
Wildcats capture 4th place in S.C.

Tennis ends year with fine showing in tournament

By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

Surprise, Surprise!

Who would have thought that the men’s tennis team would place fourth in Southern Conference competition? Who would have thought they could abuse Appalachian State and come within five points of defeating Furman? Who would have thought that Harry Griffith could reach the number one singles finals?

It all happened last weekend at the Southern Conference Tournament in Chattanooga. The Davidson squad played their best tournament since winning the title in 1973 and their best all season.

Coach Jeff Frank was pleasantly surprised. Just two weeks ago he was talking a fifth place finish at best. The disappointing loss to Furman (8-1) marked the low point in the season. The Wildcats picked up the pieces and played a fine match against UT-C. “We went into the tournament as spoilers and upsetters,” said Coach Frank and spoil they did.

Harry Griffith defeated the number four seed in the first round and then won his best match of the season by upsetting Furman’s Jimmy Wynn (6-3, 3-6, 6-4). Wynn, the first seed, was undefeated the entire season in Conference competition; Griffith changed that.

Jay Gepfert faced two tough opponents; he upset the number three seed, but then lost to the second seed (7-6) in the third set. John Carlin and Nevins Todd both put up good fights in their first round losses to venerable opponents.

In doubles competition, Griffith and Gepfert teamed up and almost succeeded in taking the blue ribbon; they lost (6-4) in the third set. The Wildcats did not lose a single match where they were seeded higher than their opponents. Frank felt that “Everyone played tough as nails.”

And what about next year? Coach Frank loses only two seniors to graduation and keeps five of six top singles players. Frank also is optimistic about some recruits coming here next year. There’ll be no more of that “We’re only a young and growing team” excuse.

For statistics freaks, here are all the players' records through Conference: Griffith 21-10, Gepfert 20-12, Carlin 18-11, Gepfert, Griffith 19-8, Kayton Petrou 19-8, Trout Lyle 15-8.