How DO these new fasteners work?
By PATSY DANIELS
Staff Writer

I've always wanted to be a dilettante. I professed to be one until Cindy Grant asked me in a fellowship interview, “What is your definition of literature?” I scratched my head and rambled for five minutes, finally relinquishing my verbal struggle with, “That’s a good question. I'm afraid I don't know. But if I win the fellowship I promise to write my dissertation on literature, what it means to twentieth-century man, the etymology of the word.” Obviously, Cindy wasn't very impressed because I had originally stated that I needed the fellowship to pursue my studies in British literature. And before one can successfully pursue anything, he must first know what it is so he might recognize it if he found it.

During these last few months at Davidson, I have tried desperately to overcome my inadequacy. I discovered that literature is a form of art. Now I am stuck with trying to define art. I will, of necessity, restrict this discussion to the literary arts because, as for my definition, a look at painting and music would only confuse it. I have no palette or repertoire, I can't paint by number or play a guitar. I couldn't draw a straight line if there were no such thing as crooked. I couldn't carry a tune if I picked one up and took it. I could never carve well enough to perform a lobotomy, to create an elephant from a stick of mahogany, to transform a rock into a pieta, or reuse the stone chips to construct a nice tessella.

Of poetry. Davidson has its own school of poetry, so I've discovered. It is called “The Grabbin’ in the Grass School of Poetry.” Its members skillfully combine the confessional with imagism, resulting in “Much can be/done in/a red wheel/barrow/glazed with rain/water/besides eating/chicken.” Some of the local favorites have gained national recognition with profound works such as: “We did it in iambic pentameter,” (Brad Kerr) “Make it in trechaic,” “Anapest is best but a move that's retractile is fun done in dactyl,” “Confessions of a heroic couplet.” I might add that some of the shaped poetry is unusual. I will say no more about this school of poetry because I flunked out when I read my masterpiece, “Quoting Milton while picking tulips beside the post office.”

On to my definition of ART. Let's look at the etymology of the word:
1) Art and Artaxerxes are not one and the same. The Persian king, I am sure, did not use a nickname.
2) Nor is it for Artemis, the Grecian moon goddess, the daughter of Leto and famed virgin huntress.
3) An interpretation that I find atrocious is to use art to abbreviate arteriosclerosis. (Though I have to admit that some things labeled art are enough to thicken the blood and clog up the heart.)
4) It is not for arthritis, though I will make the point that some things called art are a pain in the joint.
5) It’s not for arthrospore — (found in bacterium) though

Happy Centennial Birthday, Davidson!
By STERLING MARTIN and TAINE ALISON
Features Editor

This Saturday, May 5th, the Town of Davidson is having a birthday, celebrating 100 years as an incorporated town. Though Davidson was incorporated in 1879, “the town actually grew up with the college,” explained Dr. Mary Beaty, Reference Coordinator and Assistant Director of the Library. Davidson College was established in 1836 as the Concord Presbytery Manual Labor Institution. Students were required to work on the campus about three hours each day. According to Dr. Beaty, “students despised the requirement” and it was dropped three or four years later. There was a three-member faculty, including the President, when the college was first established. One of the first buildings erected was the President’s Home built in 1836-37. As enrollment increased, the town’s population did, too. Boarding houses sprung up to accommodate the newstudents. Copeland House was one of the earliest houses in Davidson used for boarding students. In 1879, there was a movement among the people to break with the college and become an official town. Thus, the town of Davidson College was born 100 years ago. It was not until 1891 that "College" was dropped from the official town name. Dr. Beaty pointed out that it was about this time that the townspeople also formed a church that was not affiliated with the Davidson College Chapel. This weekend, college and townspeople are coming together to celebrate Davidson’s 100th birthday. The celebration will begin Saturday at noon, with a parade down Main Street from the Fine Arts Building parking lot at the corner of Griffith and Main Streets to the Village Green. Awards for participation in the parade will be given in the following categories: 1) Best Equestrian Entry; 2) Best Float; 3) Best Bicycle Entry; 4) Most Historic Entry; 5) Most Patriotic Entry; and 6) Most Original Entry. All entries may be either individual, family, or group. At the conclusion of the parade, a brief ceremony will be held at the Village Green to introduce and honor dignitaries, special guests, and visitors. In addition, Dr. Mary Beaty of Davidson College will give a short history of the town with the aid of a model produced by Mrs. Labban’s class at the Davidson Elementary School. During the afternoon, entertainment will be provided by the Davidson Elementary School Chorus, the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Youth Council Steel Drum Symphonette, the Davidson Freewheelers (a clogging group from the College), Dr. Dawes B. Graybeal with authentic folk music, and more. Displays and demonstrations of period craft skills and work including needlework, macramé, pottery, fine arts, wire art, quilting, weaving, and poster art will be shown throughout the afternoon on the Green. Many organizations from the community will be providing booths for information, fun, and items for sale. Churches, service organizations, and clubs will be offering good food for lunch and snacks all day. One of the major events will be the annual Lions’ Club auction from 2:30 pm until all merchandise is sold. Other events throughout the morning and afternoon will include the 11 o'clock rededication of the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center featuring Mr. Wallace Karault as the guest speaker; the finish and post-race ceremonies of the Charlotte to Davidson Run-a-thon sponsored by the Black Student Coalition of Davidson College; and numerous activities sponsored by the Davidson Bicycle Co-Op. Special craft and art displays will be featured at the Copeland House Galleries and at the Glass Emporium. At 7:30 pm, an all-community square dance will be held on the Village Green featuring a bluegrass band. Sunday afternoon, the Davidson College Wind Ensemble will give its annual spring concert on the plaza in front of Chambers Building on the campus in honor of the Davidson centennial. The weekend will conclude with a community service on the Village Green at 4:30 pm sponsored by the Davidson churches. In the event of rain on Saturday, a decision on postponement to the 2:00 pm rain date will be made by 11:00 am.

"What True Art is Not"

Some artists seem smitten by an infectious delirium. It’s not short for artichoke, yet the comparison can work if you consider that some art seems rooted in dirt. Nor is it for arthropod, though there is a connection between segmented bugs and poems written in sections. (And some forms of art are just as detestable as black creeping things and overcooked vegetables.) Art is for artem, the only Latin word, meaning beauty created, visualized, or heard. And I know most would argue with this final thought, so that’s why I listed: What True Art is NOT. As you can tell, I spent much time and energy in my research. I submitted my thesis to a committee at Oxford and was awarded a Ph.D. (Philologiae diletante). As soon as I learn enough Latin to decipher my diploma, I will be able to fully appreciate the honor.