2—The Davidsonian—January 26, 1979

News at a Glance

Davidson’s long-awaited Medical Center opened its doors to patients for the first time last Thursday, January 18.

The medical center will serve only townspeople and is part of the College's plan to keep two full-time doctors in the community.

The opening followed the rough completion of the building in early January, and the movement of equipment and supplies into the building on Wednesday, January 17. Still lacking are some finishing details such as trim fixtures, outside walks, a lawn, and a

The staff, which has been working out of the Manse on Concord Road since August, includes two nurses, a receptionist, a secretary, and pediatrician-internist Bill Williams and internist Ron Hunt, both Davidson graduates.

The main advantages of the new building are more space and more modern facilities. The Center, open from 8 to 6 weekdays, has facilities for X-rays, EKGs, blood work, and minor surgery.

The Center was scheduled for completion last September but was delayed. The major difficulty was the demand by a local building inspector that the College comply with a fire zone ordinance requiring all buildings in the downtown area to have fire-resistant walls. After spending several months in an unsuccessful attempt to reverse the inspector’s decision, the College did make the exterior walls fire-resistant—at an added cost of $6,000.

—CAROLE LOPSTON

Living Endowment drive exceeds goal

On November 1, College President Samuel Spencer received a memo from Vice President for Development Duane Dittman stating the $470,000 goal set for the 1978 Living Endowment was unattainable. By January 1, the drive had exceeded this goal by $23,000.

Dittman said an unexpected final surge in giving brought the year-end total to $493,000.

The Living Endowment, which goes into the general fund, is used to hold down tuition costs and to improve the school. The money comes largely from alumni, who donated over $323,000 in 1978. Other contributions come from parents, corporations, and

Director of Living Endowment Edward L. Willingham, II credits the success of the program to volunteer work by alumni and students. Other factors, such as college athletics and WDA, may have a positive, if immeasurable effect, he added.

“It’s so good to be a part of a winning thing,” Willingham chortled.

The fund-raising project began last year with a telethon by students who called alumni and with letters sent to alumni asking for contributions. A volunteer chairman for each class after 1920 sent out letters or made phone calls to members of his class. Dittman attributed the success of the drive to exceptional effort by the volunteer students and alumni.

Spencer commented, “There are a lot of people out there who believe in Davidson.”

—ROBERT BOWIE

Clarifications

An article about swimming in last week’s Davidsonian incorrectly captioned a photograph of History Professor Jonathan Boulton on page 11, creating the impression that Boulton was angry because “his contract was not removed.” Boulton is instead angry because his contract was not “renewed.”

A headline on the front page of last week’s Davidsonian which read “Zimmermann bumps Boulton” met with disfavor both among Zimmermann’s supporters and Boulton’s. Friends of the Academic Vice President said that, although Zimmermann is directly responsible for the faculty personnel decisions, there were enough other people involved in the decision to render the headline inaccurate.

An article on the Center for Special Studies on the front page stated that the present dean, Dr. Robert Avinger, will return to his teaching duties next year. Instead, Avinger plans to take a sabbatical.

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28086; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

It’s your little sister's birthday and you've got a term paper due on Monday.

Going home can be as simple as a postage stamp, an envelope, and a card from the Village Store.

"A WORLD OF GIFTS”

THE VILLAGE STORE

Taylor and Irene Blackwell, Owners