The Davidsonian—November 30, 1979

Swimmers jumpin'

By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

The 1979-80 edition of the Davidson Swimming Team should be highly competitive and is expected to finish in the upper
division, possibly as high as third, at the Southern Conference Championships. Considering the veteran makeup of this year’s squad and
the positive effects of an off-season weight program, such optimism seems well-grounded. Also, Coach Pat Miller’s spirits have been buoyed
up by the addition of two quality divers, Frank Bright and Charu Sharma, to the Davidson program.

Strength in the distance events along with the points in the diving competition will characterize the team’s effort again this
year while sophomores Warren Beck and Craig Finger are two to watch. Coach Miller is the first to admit that
freestyle sprints will be a weakness, but she suggested that Beck and Finger, two of the squad’s more versatile performers,
could be shifted depending upon the competition to compensate for this weakness.

Pre-season conditioning has gone well and all the swimmers seem ready to test themselves. They won’t have to wait long
because an away meet is scheduled this Saturday with Vanderbilt, a Southeastern Conference member. The schedule, which includes such schools
as Washington & Lee, Wake Forest, William & Mary, and Old Dominion, is a difficult one; but a 10-day training
stint in St. Petersburg over the holidays should duly prepare the team.

Seasonal prospects will be much clearer following Saturday’s meet with Vanderbilt, but as of now, swimming enthusiasts have reason to
expect a good campaign for the 79-80 swimming 'Cats.

Roller coaster season for soccer team

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

To say the Davidson College Soccer team finished their 8-13 season with a bang might not give the team the
distinction it deserves. Davidson finished the season by going 2-1 in the final. In a tenacious, spirited game, the Wildcats
put on a display of good soccer with a 3-1 win against the archrival Tarheels. Psyched for the season’s last
game, mental lapses cost Davidson two goals late in the first half and another early in the second half before
the Cats returned to their level of good play.

“We played them close the whole way,” said coach Karl Kremser, “and they’re one of the best teams around.” He
praised the play of senior fullback Pete Sluiter, who kept Davidson in the game with his saving tackles and long
throw-ins. Jimmy Hawk scored Davidson's only goal.

The preceding weekend Davidson hit the road and on game day, November 9, against Wofford, the Wildcats beat the NAIA
Tournament-bound Terriers 4-2. The team then pushed on to Tennessee to play UT-Chattanooga. Davidson won 8-0 in a poorly played
game against a first-year team. Barnett scored twice, as did Wall, one a penalty kick. Chuck Price, a starter all
season, finally got one in the net, and Cup Coffee scored his first career goal. Tom Schember and Nichols added
Davidson’s other tallies.

In a roller-coaster season, Davidson's soccer team showed great improvement, said Kremser. Despite their 8-13 finish, it was still their
best record in many years.

Football season ends mercifully

By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

Their 1979 football season in a first eight games the ‘Cats were 6-2 and looking for a playoff berth. However,
losses to Furman, 63-55, and Wofford, 48-28, ended the season at 6-4. That was, nonetheless, the first winning season since
1969.

Before the visiting 1969 Tangerine Bowl team and several thousand other fans, Davidson and Furman staged a record-setting offensive show.
Their combined 118 points broke the old record of 111 and Davidson's 55 points were the most ever scored by
a losing team. Though not a record, the teams...did combine for 1,123 total yards, which was quite an exhibition of
offensive football. The records were important enough to warrant mention in the weekly football column of Sports Illustrated, and Coach
Ed Farrell’s quote, “I thought 55 points would have been enough,” was listed in SI's “They Said It” column the
following week. Davidson then played Wofford in the hopes of becoming only the third team in school history to achieve
a certain milestone, but that was not to be the case as a fired-up Wofford team subdued the Wildcats 48-28
for their homecoming fans. The game was a sloppy mess after heavy rains had fallen the previous few days, and
the Wildcats never really got untracked. The offense produced four touchdowns but failed to take advantage of numerous other scoring
opportunities. The defense, meanwhile, was riddled with injuries and was never able to stop the Terrier attack. Davidson ended the
season with some fine standings in the national Division I-AA statistics. Alvin Atkinson finished second in scoring, Gifford Piercy was
second in pass receiving, and the ’Cats were fourth in total offense, second in passing, and second in scoring offense.

The prospects for the next season seem bright despite a more difficult schedule. Alvin Atkinson, Ray Sinclair, and Gifford Piercy
all return in an offense that will be spearheaded by Brian Whitmire. Also, Davidson’s young defense will have a year
of seasoning behind them.

By ROB MOORE
Staff Writer

Although plagued by inconsistency, Davidson's cross country team finished with a 7-5 record, one of the best in the school’s
history. Captains Bart Landess and George Strobel led a talented squad that, although finishing a disappointing eighth in the Southern
Conference meet, combined their efforts for some important victories. “No individual really stood out,” said team member John Hoots. “It
was a team effort the whole season. Everyone got along well, and it made for a good season and a
great experience.” As well as Hoots, Landess, and Strobel, the top seven runners also included Jeff Morrow and Jack Smith.
Danny Armistead, although hampered by an injury received during the Lynchburg race, showed marked improvement and also contributed to the
overall success of the team.

In a program such as Davidson’s, the stress is on education and enjoyment of the sport, with winning a secondary
concern. Although the team was concerned with coach Norm Koller’s failure to receive tenure, his strong leadership united the team.

In a sport usually equated with individual effort, Davidson’s cross country unit was able to unite for a team effort
with a different star at every meet. The prospects look good for next year, and with an effort matching the
'79 team’s, Davidson could have another successful season of cross country next year.

Tell Your Mother You’re Going to Study

When the spirit moves you—or when your spirit needs moving—move on up to the mountains and the Waynesville Country Club
Inn. This 60-year-old concept is a fantastic place to get together for fraternities, sororities, clubs, or just a group of
friends. We'll wine & dine you or just make sure there’s a nice roaring fire in the fireplace. Or, you
can study—if it comes to that. Our daily rates begin as low as $22 per person, double occupancy. A typical
2-day, 2-night package—including breakfast and dinner—is just $99 per person, double occupancy. Call or write our “Dean of Recreational Activities”
today, and let us help you set up a special package. Extra: Groups of 15 or more receive FREE “study
week” t-shirts.

Bring this “letter” with you and get a free drink.

Waynesville Country Club Inn
P.O. Box 989, Waynesville, NC 28786
Telephone: (704) 456-3551
