10—The Davidsonian—January 26, 1979

EVERY STUDENT SHALL HAVE A SHOT FOR AN EDUCATION.

LAPS VS — CALAMITY

WELL, I COULD USE A GOOD STIFF SHOT ABOUT NOW.

AND THE PAIN IS VIRTUALLY MINIMAL.

SUS CALAMITY

I and Bone chastise the studious

son. Davidson 75, Wake Forest 72. Davidson 87, Citadel 72. To all you neuters in the E. H. Little Bookshelves
who missed one of these examples of abuse, weren’t you there?

Young students, don’t you realize that the Davidson Wildcat Basketball Team has finally learned how to assert some manhood? This
is the greatest thing that has happened since the Pig-Out.

No wonder your GPA’s are so high. Here it is in the middle of the winter when the only thing
that excites you is a slight change in the barometric pressure. You don’t have women, you're tired of drinking Ron
Scott keg beer, you're tired of the sandpaper toilet paper in the dorm bathrooms, someone has stolen the air out
of your box, and they don’t even mention your team in the Bad Bernard and Bonehead column. Face it, you're
a loser.

But all of a sudden, when you least expect it, the Big Red Machine goes into action. Jamie jams one,
Jamie jams another one, Jamie stuffs the poor sucker, and then Jamie swings his arm down on an attempted dunk
after a pass from the heavens but misses. Hot damn, if he would have made that slam, Bernie would have
had to change pants. Thank you, Jamie Hall.

Perk hustles and hits clutch free throws. Ernie beats the press and even hits an outside jumper. Both play excellent
defense.

Todd forgets he had mono last year. Rebounds, points, and points, rebounds.

Sweet pea John Gerdy releases some of the prettiest jumpers that you have ever witnessed. Poetry in motion. Gerdy from
thirty and the fans love it.

Jumpin’ jackalopes, Batman. The Big D is playing basketball. Rowan no longer looks like a freshman. The whole team is
badashell.

And there you are in the bookshelves. You return to the dorm to catch the last minute of the Wake
game and then WDAYV, being a professional station, switches from the most exciting sports event in recent Davidson history to
what the alumni need to hear—Strakowski.

Your buddies return to tell you about the game. Ooops, your GPA is now in trouble. They drag you to
the 900 Room on a Monday night. 3.98, 3.86, 3.63, 1.8. There goes Saint Grade Point. But good gosh, you
are having a blast. The profs even love it because they don’t worry about losing their jobs due to grade
inflation.

The conversation changes from “Hey, how did you do on the Biophysicalgerman review” to “Hey, eyeball, give me another pitcher.”
What’s the matter with this place? No—Thank you Wildcats for Spring Term come early!

And now for the IMAC news that interested us.

Later.
Davidson 75, Wake Forest 72. Davidson 87, Citadel 72. Davidson 75, Wake Forest 72. Davidson 87, Citadel 72. Davidson 75,
Wake Forest 72.

OPENING SOON ANOTHER ROADSIDE ATTRACTION PUB

Part-time evening help wanted: Bartender(s) Call 892-8699 after 6pm for information

So's your Mother...

The pizza made famous by Davidson’s own Peregrine House.

In the warm homey atmosphere, allow us to treat you to delicious food including warm bagels, salads, your design of
pizza, sandwiches, and Black Forest cheesecake. We also serve beer and wine.

Take a break today and really enjoy it.

We’re open
Monday-Wednesday 11:00-2:30 5:00-8:00
Thursday-Saturday 11:00-2:30 5:00-12:00
Sunday 12:00-3:00 5:00-10:00

phone 892-8686
