Professors and members of our Davidson's moral fabric, I will borrow a point raised at the Media Board hearing. It
was there noted that the matter is equal among faculty and students. Students have been given the opportunity to identify
with the faculty as it fosters amicability between the faculty and the student body. This is the year’s second issue
over the Honor Code and scheduled exams. It was noted that the guide was the product of an unfocused effort.
As Professor Lloyd has encouraged, we must put this behind us.

Marshall Waddell '80
Mott McDonald '82
Wilson Sofley '82
Porter Rhoton '82
Marc Webster '82
Keith W. Hearle '82
Warren M. Overby '82
James I. Northrup '82
Bruce A. Wallace '82
Geoff Spencer '82
Brent C. Hilleary '82
Bryan Collins '82
Barry Mack '82
Ari D. Crenshaw '82
James McLain '82

To the Editor:

I want to repeat and reemphasize what I said to the faculty members at the open Media Board meeting on
April 9. Many of the comments printed in the April 6 edition of The Davidsonian were cruel, inconsiderate, and unjustifiable.
These comments certainly caused a great deal of hurt and embarrassment to many professors, their families, and friends. These things
have already been done and, unfortunately, I can only say that I’m truly sorry they happened. Please believe me when
I say that the views expressed in that issue are not those of our student body. I would estimate that
98 percent of the students I talked to last Thursday would agree. It would be a tragedy if any of
the faculty thought that the things that appeared on April 6 were, in any way, indicative of our views. I
am confident that I speak for the majority.

To the Editor:

It is Easter week and let us restrain ourselves from crucifying once again. Yes, last week’s Davidsonian was a tragedy,
but pain inflicted atop pain only creates more hurt. I ask students, faculty, and administration to forgive and forget. Has
Davidson College forgotten what it represents? We are a Christian establishment, founded with the purpose of upholding Christian principles, grounded
in Christ’s teachings, and His greatest teaching was that we are to love one another. Where is this love now?
If members of the student body, faculty, and the administration vindicate themselves or their friends by striking back at the
individuals involved in last week’s “April Fool Release,” then I am afraid that the wounded are no better than the
tormentors. I hope that apologies will be accepted, that past events will be forgotten. Remember the example that we are
to commemorate this Sunday. What would He have done?

Patsy Daniels '79

Character Assassination

To the Editor:

Just a few brief comments regarding “A Guide to Courses at Davidson,” April 6, 1979. There is a clear distinction
between humor and character assassination. While my coverage in the “Guide” was humorous, the coverage of many was deeply and
tragically over-the-line into character assassination. There are many ways for a media instrument to be responsible, humorous, and controversial. The
April 6 “Guide” was not one of them. Knowing your ability and the potential of The Davidsonian, I was saddened
and disappointed.

Edward L. Palmer
Professor of Psychology

Blank Pages

To the Editor:

Last week’s professor evaluation was appalling. I was shocked that my fellow students would print such tasteless comments about our
professors. Poking fun at the faculty can be entertaining and ridicule has often been expressed in a tactful, clever fashion,
but when the newspaper has to resort to...

(continued from page 4)

...intended it as a joke.It’s one of those jokes that backfires... I think most of us are too touchy. Anybody
who wants to poke fun at me is welcome anytime.” (Making mistakes and learning from them is part of life.
Young writers often don’t realize what a powerful instrument the printed word is and how badly words can wound; nor
do they always seem to understand that freedom of the press does not include immunity from suit for libel. If
the Davidson student journalists learn the first lesson without suffering the second, the episode won't be a total loss. Laura
Michael ’80

Trash
To the Editor:
The type of cheap, disgusting, and disgraceful “satire” that appeared in “The South’s Foremost Weekly” is not worthy of a
trash can. Serious questions as to the credibility of a staff and editor that engage in “potshots” that tread on
other people's feelings are raised. An apology hardly seems adequate and will probably not be forthcoming. It is somewhat inconsistent
to talk of apartheid and hypocrisy in an editorial and then devote pages and resources to slander and trash.
Brian Conley '80

Immature Sarcasm
To the Editor:
Much of last week’s “Guide to Courses at Davidson” is a model of cruelty without humor and crudeness without point.
The “Guide” is not satire; it is sarcasm, and immature sarcasm at that. As another student noted, there is a
difference between a lampoon and a bludgeon.
Liz Holmes ’79

To the Editor:
Why have I heard so little discussion about the safety of the McGuire Nuclear Power Plant this week, and so
much about Charles Erwin?
Margaret Hunter '79

I speak for the entire student body when I say that we sincerely respect our faculty. We do not comment
on their personal lives. The honest fact is that we really like you all; almost every student has several faculty
members they admire. If you doubt what I say, please talk to me about it; better yet, ask the students
themselves. Your comments will be confirmed to the highest of your expectations. I hope that this incident will, ironically, bring
us closer together as students support them. We realize that an “us vs. them” attitude is inappropriate and unproductive. We
are all here together.

SGA Announcement
The Senate makes its appointments to the administration and faculty councils and committees during Spring Term. This year the selections
will occur in three groups. The deadline for the first group is Tuesday, April 17, 5:00 P.M. This group consists
of these committees: Their descriptions are written below. If you are interested in serving, contact Percy Badham (-6716), John Jackson
(-6322), or Richard Torey. You will be interviewed by a screening committee: nominees will be chosen and presented to the
Senate. Appointments to other councils follow this process.

CULTURAL AND ACADEMIC PROGRAMS
This committee advises the Vice-President for Academic Affairs in planning major public lecture programs (like the Reynolds lecturers) and cultural
programs.

MEDIA BOARD
The Student Media Board consists of three members chosen according to SGA By-Laws, two Faculty members chosen according to the
Faculty By-Laws, one member of the administration appointed by the President, and three additional members chosen at large by these
six. The Board represents the Trustees regarding student publications. It may authorize new publications and monitors existing publications.

COUNCIL ON CAMPUS AND RELIGIOUS LIFE
This committee concerns itself with the quality of student life on campus, particularly social and religious life, the operation of
student organizations and activities.
