April 6, 1979—The Davidsonian—5

Hope McArn is one of the singles players for the women's tennis team. The team has compiled an 8-2 record and will be facing some stiff competition at home this week.

Cats chalk up two wins

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Davidson’s baseball team broke out of a five-game losing streak this week by splitting two doubleheaders against Appalachian State and Duke. The team floundered in the losing streak, and their record was brought to a meager 3-9. At the encouragement of senior tri-captain Jim Richards, the Cats resolved after last week’s loss to UNCC to forget their previous poor play and to start the season anew.

The start of this “new” season began with a victory in a doubleheader with Appalachian State. In the first game with Appalachian, the Mountaineers jumped to an early 1-0 lead over the Cats and led until the fifth inning when sophomore John Porter ripped a double, scoring Tim McDowell from second. With the Cats leading 2-1 going into the bottom of the fifth inning, the Mountaineers rallied to tie the game at 2-2. The game remained deadlocked past the expected seven innings until John Porter hit a triple with Tim McDowell on base, winning the game for the Cats in the tenth inning. Senior John Madden pitched the whole game for the Cats, allowing only seven hits in ten innings.

In the second game against Appalachian State, the Cats ran into pitching problems. Three of the Cats’ starting pitchers had sore arms. Coach Palmer Muench called on sophomore Joby Merton to hurl for the Cats. Merton, who starts at shortstop, had not pitched any this season and thus had some control problems. After Merton left in the second inning, a string of Cat relievers followed, but the Mountaineers’ momentum had already carried them to a 7-0 lead in the second inning. The Cats tried to fight back when John Haskell hit a three-run homer in the fourth inning. However, the Cats failed to score again and lost the game 10-4.

In the first game of the Duke doubleheader, the Cats jumped ahead 3-1 in the second inning when senior Tim Goodell hit a three-run homer. The Cats then led throughout the game. Sophomore pitcher Jon Young held the Blue Devils to only six hits. The Cats won the game 6-2 as Goodell’s home run and Tim McDowell's two singles led the Cat offense.

Cam Zurbruegg hit a triple and a double to put Davidson ahead early in the second game against Duke. Catcher Bob Lapple also assisted by hitting two for three at the plate. Though the Cats led most of the game, Duke rallied in the fifth inning by getting four runs and then went on to beat the Cats 9-4.

The victories over Appalachian State and Duke indicate that the Cats believe their “new” season has begun and they desire to make it more productive than their earlier 3-9 performances. With the “old” and “new” seasons put together, the record stands at 5-11. This weekend the Cats play James Madison University in a doubleheader.

Freshmen are vital to Wildcat tennis

By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

Freshman power. It was born to the swim team through the efforts of Paul Voight and Mike Schremmer; its spirit lives on with the tennis team, in the forms of John Carlin and Nevins Todd. Romantic, isn't it! The fact remains that these two freshmen have the best competitive records among the top five varsity singles players. They have ousted many of their older and more experienced opponents with a calculated irreverence. They have even taken Coach Jeff Frank by surprise—needless to say, a pleasant surprise.

Take John Carlin—calm, cool, and consistent. Carlin's record stands at 13-4 at the third singles position. Carlin lost one close match the weekend his girlfriend was here; that'll teachHarrisonburg, Virginia. 

Lady Cats look to better 8-2 record
By BRYAN KELLEHER
Staff Writer

Before today's match with Peace, the Davidson Women’s tennis team had extended its record to 8-2. Monday's home victory over High Point was followed by a 7-2 upset over Appalachian State Tuesday at Sugar Mountain's indoor courts. Emmy Knobloch, Hope McArn, and Kirk Cameron won singles events in both matches; Bunny Horine and Tanda Witherspoon contributed a win apiece. The doubles teams of McArn-Cameron, Knobloch-Adelaide Wilcox, and Witherspoon-Grace Morgan went undefeated for the two matches. Coach Pat Miller commented, “The girls are playing very well—much better than they did at the start of the year.”

The team faces three of the biggest matches of the season at home during the next few days. After Thursday's match against Peace, the team plays Furman on Friday and N.C. State next Tuesday. These tough home contests will help gear the team for the state division championships to be hosted by Davidson on April 19-21.

Davidson hosts track relays
By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor

Over 40 men’s track teams will converge on Davidson this Saturday to compete in the Davidson Relays. Coach Karl Kremser said, “This meet was started for small schools like Davidson so we could have some reasonable competition in the form of a relay. Over the last couple of years, it’s really escalated. There's going to be some outstanding competition here.”

Davidson's girls’ track team will also compete Saturday, and it will be the last meet of their season. Fourteen girls’ teams will assemble here for this event. Coach Dee Dee Mayes is looking forward to some good performances. She said, “Our sprinters, freshmen Diane Downing and Barbara Kelley, should do well and our mile relay team has the potential to take first.” Since the girls’ meet with Winston-Salem was cancelled, they now stand with a dual meet record of 0-1.

The men's team travelled to Western Carolina to compete in the Western Carolina Relays during the last week; they placed fourth out of nine teams.

At his current pace, he may well surpass twenty victories this season. Nevins Todd; what can one say? The figures speak for themselves. Todd has won 12 of his 17 matches at number four and continues to win with his aggressive and sophisticated style. Who knows, he could surpass Carlin.

On the whole, the outlook for the men's tennis team is very promising. In what seems to have been caused by an overdose in confidence, the Wildcats have outdone themselves in the past two weeks. Since the team has posted five consecutive victories, three of which were shut-outs, Coach Frank is a very happy man.

The squad defeated Washington and Lee 7-2 last Friday. Harry Griffith had one thriller of a match at number one singles and defeated Stu Jackson 4-6, 7-6, 6-4. Until then, no Davidson player had ever beaten Jackson. Griffith is proving himself as a powerful contender for the number one spot in the Southern Conference.

The following day, the team upset Citadel 7-2. The Citadel had beaten Appalachian State the previous day and was not expecting a loss. More importantly, the win gives Davidson better placement in the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament.

In the next few weeks, the Wildcats will be facing the best teams in the Southern Conference. How they do against Furman, Appalachian State, and UT-C will have a real effect on the outcome of the season. If the Cats can withstand the pressure, it can be a superb tennis year.

Cotton Lisle Sportshirts in all the colors of the spectrum, including red and black. Come select yours today.
Store Hours: 9 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. Monday thru Saturday, except for Tuesday afternoons.
DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE - Women’s Wear, too!