Faculty Evaluation
David Kaylor

The adoption last spring of the Code of Faculty Evaluation and the immediately subsequent tenure decisions raise questions of profound
importance for Davidson College's aspirations to be a community which stresses excellence in teaching. The Code as adopted jeopardizes genuine
community by permitting unnecessary secretiveness. In spite of repeated faculty assertions of the principle that any candidate being evaluated should
have access to the substance of the criticisms of his/her work, the administration refused to include such guarantees in the
code. The administration did agree that it has a "moral" obligation to share fully with the candidate the substance of
the evaluative material, and when some were denied tenure, the administration adopted a stone-wall stance. This refusal of openness and
frankness has given rise to suspicions of unfairness and arbitrariness that have serious consequences for the maintenance of a sense
of community and collegiality.

There clearly must be incorporated into the Code the following principles advocated by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP):

1. "In the event of a decision not to renew his appointment, the faculty member should be informed of the
decision in writing, and, if he so requests, he should be advised of the reasons which contributed to that decision.
He should also have the opportunity to request a reconsideration by the decision-making body."
2. "If the faculty member expresses a desire to petition the grievance committee...or if he makes the request for any
other reason satisfactory to himself alone, he should have the reasons given in explanation of the non-renewal confirmed in writing."
(AAUP Policy Documents and Reports, 1971 edition, page 12).

The recent tenure decisions also have serious implications for the college's desire to have excellence in teaching. Tenure too easily
obtained does not serve the college’s aspirations, but neither does the creation of a feeling of insecurity and uncertainty among
untenured faculty. The primary test of our ability to have excellent teachers comes at the time of recruitment and initial
hiring. In order to attract excellent teachers, we must have an outstanding situation to offer—including excellent salaries, excellent working conditions,
a promise of security from arbitrary decisions regarding tenure and of security from an unstated but real policy of restricting
tenure to some fixed or approximate percentage. The more people who are denied tenure, the greater the indication that we
have failed in recruitment.

There ought not, in my opinion, be a limitation on tenure at Davidson. No one should be denied tenure on
the grounds that we are "over-tenured"; there is evidence that such a principle was at work in the recent cases.
If the Trustees or the administration wish to approach tenure decisions from that perspective, there should at least be openness
and honesty about the matter, so that the policy can be debated on its merits. The real or suspected existence
of a tenure quota may have a negative influence on achieving excellence in teaching, for it causes untenured faculty to
seek job security through keeping themselves marketable elsewhere; marketability means publication, and thus untenured faculty may become reluctant to spend
time serving as freshmen advisers, being available to students, and preparing for teaching. Thus the chosen means of obtaining a
more excellent teaching faculty may sacrifice the end sought.

Once we have secured the best candidates we can to fill vacant positions on the faculty, there should be assurance
that those persons will attain tenure if they perform with the degree of excellence which was reasonably expected of them
when they were hired. Then they can have the freedom to concentrate on their development as teachers and as full
contributing members of the Davidson community. Such an approach will, I believe, have a positive impact both on teaching excellence
and on the spirit of community and collegiality.

David Kaylor is a professor of Religion.

The lithograph is by Penny Keels.

Procedure for Honor Appeals
The Review Board

In view of recent discussions of the Honor Code, the Review Board feels a need to discuss principles of procedure
and our interpretation of the Honor Code which guided us in our proceedings last year.

The Honor Code specifies that all acts of dishonesty under the Honor Code or any acts violating the Code of
Responsibility "be grounds for disciplinary action by the College under the procedure outlined in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure." (p.6)
In all cases appealed to us, we believe that we followed the procedure as it is stated on the same
page, "...the body adjudicating a specific case should consider each infraction individually and assess penalties according to the seriousness of
the offense, taking into consideration the consequences for the individual involved and for the community as a whole."

This is a particularly important paragraph which precedes in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure the more technical aspects of procedure
for the Honor Court and the Board of Review, and we believe that its first position shows how it underlies
the entire procedure, especially the imposing of sentences. In addition, we believe that the consideration of consequences refers to those
which may arise in and outside the College community. It is important to bear in mind that these are our
interpretations, which may differ from those of others.

In all of its decisions the Review Board was conscious of the emphasis, which we believe is apparent throughout the
document, placed by the Honor Code on the rights of the individual. Some specific examples of this include: 1) the
existence of a bill of rights (pp. 6 and 7), 2) rights of privacy,‘‘Except under court order or when authorized
in writing by the student affected, no officer, faculty member, employee, or student may divulge to any other person than
to those with access as a matter of course the contents of any student disciplinary record.’’ (p. 21)

‘‘All records pertaining to disciplinary proceedings in which a student is charged with a violation shall be kept separate from
his academic records.’’ (p. 20)

3) The right of appeal, ‘‘From any determination of the person charged Board.”’ (p. 17)

In some instances, the requirement of the Honor Code that ‘‘the body adjudicating a specific case should consider...the consequences for
the individual involved and for the community as a whole” may come into self-conflict. For instance, a reduction of sanction
might seem necessary to the Review Board in consideration of the consequences for the individual. However, this might seem contrary
to consideration of the consequences to the College community as a whole, which is related to the following statement from
the Honor Code:

“The sanctions of suspension for a definite time and indefinite suspension, involving loss or interruption of educational opportunity, are appropriate
only when the violator’s continued membership in the College community is judged to be fundamentally at variance with the integrity
of its educational mission or to pose a specific threat to his own emotional health or to the minimal internal
order of the community. But they should be imposed without hesitation where these do fairly appear.” (p. 17)

Weighing the consequences to the College community and individual student against each other is sometimes very difficult. In each individual
case, it is necessary for the Board members to consider the case in view of the record and the Honor
Code and then to decide which interest should prevail. This is a matter of interpretation based on the judgment of
the Board of Review at the time the decision is made, and we emphasize that this interpretation may not be
that of others or even the majority. However, justice for an individual cannot be obtained in a popularity contest but
must instead be sought within the Code of Disciplinary Procedure and our interpretation of it.

The Review Board has several actions available to it, one of which is stated in Part II. F. 7 (d)
and (e): ‘‘...but reduce the sanction to one deemed more appropriate...’’ In view of our obligation to consider the consequences
for the individual student, we feel that the word ‘reduce’ must of necessity refer to not only a numerical reduction
or a reduction of severity but also to an alteration of sentence. It is ordinarily not the intent of the
Code of Disciplinary Procedure to render to an offender punishment beyond that which results directly from the sanction. Instead, unintended
consequences may arise as a result of an offender’s position in the College community. Furthermore, it is not possible to
prove who will suffer unintended consequences and to what extent, and certainly any student convicted of an Honor Code violation
may suffer some consequences. Therefore, some persons may argue that each student who attends Davidson College must have the maturity
to assess and accept the consequences to himself which would arise from a conviction under the Honor Code. Yet, this
is not explicit in the Honor Code. Instead, it explicitly instructs us to consider the consequences of the sanction for
the individual.

We should add that in no case appealed to the Review Board last year was pressure applied by any group
or individuals in or outside the College community. Even if pressure had been applied, we assure the College community that
it would have been rejected and would have had no effect on our decisions.

A comment should be made about the confidentiality of the records of Honor Code cases. The Code of Disciplinary Procedure
clearly requires that ‘‘no officer, faculty member, employee, or student may divulge to any other person than to those with
access as a matter of course the contents of any student disciplinary record.’’ Yet, in view of the amount of
information about some cases which has circulated within the College community, it is apparent that this requirement has been violated
many times, which indicates how lightly some responsible persons take the Honor Code. Discussion of the contents of cases is
not only an Honor Code violation but is very harmful to the Honor System. Such discussion leads to the spread
of rumors which amplify to the point that people begin to mistrust students and faculty members of the Honor Council
and Review Board and may lead to demands for explanations of decisions made by these bodies. Such demands will dangerously
weaken the Honor System by putting pressure on the Honor Council and Review Board to make only decisions which are
politically popular and which satisfy the majority.

If the Honor Code is to remain strong, it is the responsibility of each of us to take it seriously
and to abide by its rules and regulations. Whether or not one agrees with decisions reached by the Review Board
or any other adjudicating body, each person in the College community must allow the adjudicating bodies to reach decisions within
their interpretation of the Honor Code and trust that the decisions are reached in this manner. If the College community
feels that the consequence for the individual should no longer be considered in the setting of sanctions, then it should
act to change the Honor Code manual by striking the statement requiring such consideration from the Honor Code, by specifically
restricting the definition of the reduction of sentences, or by applying uniform sentences, with no exceptions, for different violations.

This column was written by members of the 1978-1979 Review Board.
