The victorious Four Flushers: (left to right) Mark McCormick, Tim Newcomb, Bob Evans, and Jim Crane. Not Shown: Cliff Savage. (Brad Kerr)

December 14, 1979—The David Flushers take College Bowl

By TIM NEWCOMB - Staff Writer

Pre-tournament favorites the Four Flushers won the intramural College Bowl championship tournament Tuesday. The team, composed of Bob Evans, Mark McCormick, Tim Newcomb, Cliff Savage, and Jim Crane (a fifth Flusher added late in the season) defeated 4 Warned in two straight matches.

Beginning Monday, January 7, 1980, a week-long series of individual tryouts will begin to determine an intercollegiate team to defend Davidson’s national championship. Around 24 people who did well in the intramurals will be invited to compete in these tryouts. After the official team is picked,

George Breece running an uphill race for Secretary of State

By FRANK SANTORE - Staff Writer

“I’ve been to ninety-one counties in the past 107 days with twelve days off—all Sundays,” George Breece, a candidate for N.C. Secretary of State, tells this reporter two seconds after meeting him.

A former state legislator from Cumberland County, Breece has been involved in almost every activity which the North Carolina Democratic Party has undertaken in the past twelve years. At the tender age of twenty-two, he was a state and national coordinator for Hubert Humphrey’s ’68 campaign. Active in the N.C. Young Democrats, he helped Jim Hunt rise to power in that organization; a fact he never fails to mention when speaking of the Governor and his long-time friendship with the same. He has been chosen as one of North Carolina’s Ten Outstanding Young Men in times past, and was honored by the North Carolina Jaycees for his role in the Jaycees’ International Relief fund for Honduras in 1975.

After serving only one term in the state legislature—he led the ticket in Cumberland County in the 1974 general election—Breece decided to challenge North Carolina’s “Mr. Democrat,” incumbent Secretary of State Thad Eure, for the post which Mr. Eure held, and still holds to this day. When asked about his lack of governmental experience, Breece made the point that Eure, when chosen Secretary of State in 1935 in order to fill a job vacancy, had served the same number of terms in the state House of Representatives—one—which he had served...and was actually defeated for a second term in 1934.

Thus armed with familiar campaign signs, which the Fayetteville Disabled American Veterans made for him at a cost of 25 cents each, Breece canvassed the state in 1976, fighting against what he perceives as the Democratic party establishment. As he drove from Manteo to Murphy, from Watauga to Wilmington, Breece would hammer his wooden signs into any willing tree trunk (“One-third of them are still up,” he estimates, “and I’ve changed the date on half of them.”) This process of hard campaigning brought him 47% of the vote in the '76 Democratic primary, a grand accomplishment for a political novice.

When speaking of his 1976 campaign, Breece shows a deep-rooted resentment against what he implies were unethical practices in the Eure campaign, such as using campaign pictures which were twenty years old. He vows that this time “things are going to be different.” That resoluteness forces him, drives him to keep running...and running...and running.

The Secretary of State post, which Thad Eure has held since 1935, is one which requires many mundane tasks of its occupant. Chartering corporations, issuing lobby and notary public licenses, and swearing in some minor officials: all these make for a rather bland daily agenda for any person elected to North Carolina’s Secretary of State post. Breece, however, feels that the Secretary of State can do more for North Carolina’s “sunshine,” or open-meeting laws.

Constitutional Amendment

The following is a memorandum from College President Samuel Spencer’s office:

The following amendments to the Constitution were suggested by the Constitutional Review Committee. They were received as information by the Trustees in October and will be voted upon at the February meeting, February 21-22, of the Board. Comments on these proposed amendments should be made to the President's Office before this time.

Proposed Amendments

1. Substitute the title “Center for Special Studies” wherever “Center for Honor Studies” appears.

2. Delete Article I, Section 4, and insert in lieu thereof the following sentence: “Administrative officers have the powers and duties delegated to them by the President.”

3. In Article VIII, Sections 3.b., 4.c., and 5.b., substitute “the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility” for “Code of Responsibility.”

4. At the end of Article VIII, Section 5.a., add the following sentence: “The Chairman of the Hearing Committee sits with the council in an advisory capacity with the privilege of the floor but without vote.”

5. In Article VIII, Section 5.b., Paragraph 2, add “or his delegates” after “the Council meets with the President.”of State (i.e., the Governor and his cabinet). After such a bill was passed in the North Carolina House, Secretary of State Eure went before a Senate committee to argue against said extension, a bill which even Governor Jim Hunt favors. The bill was not reported out of committee, and Breece feels that Eure’s influence was the primary reason. In addition, Breece has attacked the inefficiency of the Secretary of State’s office. He uses two illustrations to drum this fact home: the fact that the Secretary’s office was the only state office with a budget increase during former Governor Holshouser’s cost-cutting program in 1976, and the fact that Eure maintains an office three-and-a-half blocks from his staff’s in Raleigh—the only cabinet official to do so. Although Breece states time and again that age is not an issue in the upcoming campaign (Eure is over 80), he utters such statements as “Back in 1936, before any of you were born,” and “I respect the Secretary, but...” He even went so far as to single out Davidson College Democrat officer Bobby Ervin and state that “Even by’s grandad knew (when to get out),” an obvious reference to the younger Ervin’s distinguished grandfather, former Senator Sam Ervin. But, as Breece told this reporter, “Politics is a tough game.” In fact, Breece’s campaign slogan, “Give a Young Man a Chance,” is the same slogan which Thad Eure used in his first campaign in 1976; a fact which Breece never failed to mention when speaking to DC’s Democratic club. If he loses this time around, Breece does not believe that he will become persona non grata in the North Carolina Democratic party. Although he realizes he is running an uphill race against what he perceives to be the party’s standard candidate, a loss, Breece said, “will be a setback, not a defeat...I’m going to keep on fighting.” One can perceive that Breece might stop one day...in the year 2100!

In the first semi-final, 4 Warned (John Payne, Bill Wilson, and Williams) defeated the musical Quadrivium (Robin Dinda, Roger Farabee, Randy Hutter, and Steve Yood). The final score was 220-100 as 4 Warned broke away in the second half. Boggess and Payne both played very well for the winners. The second semi-final featured the League B champions, the Four Flushers, facing the strong League C champs, once-beaten ESP (Walter Pharr, John Siman, Mike Ameen, Larry Jones, and Mark Newman). After initial sluggishness by both teams, the Flushers got off the ground and won 280-55. The finals followed immediately, a two out of three match between 4 Warned and the Four Flushers. The Four Flushers won two straight matches, 355-95 and 250-75. Each of the Four Flushers will receive a plaque from the Union’s College Bowl Committee. The first stage of Davidson’s 1979-80 College Bowl season is now complete. During the entire intramural season, 60 games were played by 24 teams. Almost everyone enjoyed playing, and Lyman Collins, Union staff adviser, said he was pleased with student response to the intramurals, which ran very smoothly. Two weeks ago, an unofficial team consisting of Julie Gibert, John Aida Doss, and Walter Pharr easily captured an invitational tournament at UNCC by beating Queens, Winthrop, and UNCC.

Final Top Ten:
1. Four Flushers (8-0)
2. 4 Warned (6-2)
3. Quadrivium (5-1)
4. ESP (4-2)
5. Bambi and the Gascoignes (4-1)
6. The Norton Anthology (4-1)
7. Zaloo’s Canoes (3-2)
8. 3 and a Maggot (3-2)
9. Guttersnipes (3-2)
10. War Kiwis (3-2)

Mini courses spell relief from ennui
By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

Winter term can often be dreary and lackadaisical, but it doesn’t have to be because once again the Union is offering Mini Courses. “The reason for having the Mini Courses,” said Jim Robertson, Union President, “is to offer opportunities for developing interests outside the normal curriculum.” All of the courses that will be offered are introductory in nature and last only 4 weeks. How often each course meets and the length of each meeting depends on the instructor and the students in the class. Here are some of the courses that will be definitely offered:
1. Oriental Cooking — Marielien Sawada & Julie Holding
2. Batiking — Susan Bane
3. Breadbaking — Jeff Morrow
4. Stargazing — Dr. Manning
5. Southern Cooking — Will Terry
6. Square Dancing — Dr. Gable & Mark Duckett (there will be a small cost for a local teacher)
7. History of Davidson College and the Surrounding Area — Chalmers Davidson & Dr. Beaty
8. Seminar in Personal Income Management — Dr. Lindsey (geared to those who haven’t taken or don’t want to take economics)

Other courses may be offered such as photography, sculpturing, and enameling. Anyone interested in these or other courses should contact the Union. These courses are not offered in the regular curriculum. Most of the courses will be limited to ten people, but square dancing may have a larger limit.