Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

India program suffers two-week delay
By JIM REESE
Staff Correspondent

The delay of a federal grant in Washington has put a temporary damper on Davidson and UNC-Charlotte’s Semester in India
program. Although the $1700 per student grant was appropriated in July by Congress, a delay in the Treasury Department has
forced a two-week postponement for departure. Studies Professor Job Thomas and the 11 students participating, including seven from Davidson, will
be leaving for India on September 13th, not the originally scheduled date of August 27th. A lack of communication between
the U.S. Office of Education and the Treasury Department caused the delay of funds, which were not released until last
week.

While in India, the students will study at the University of Madras, where they will investigate various aspects of Indian
culture—geography, religion, history, language, and the people themselves—through lectures by native specialists in each field. Students will also be traveling
widely across India and will write a report based on this fieldwork. Thomas, a native of India, said of the
program, “This is a very good opportunity for Davidson College students to be exposed to a non-Western culture. I am
quite happy to be sending the largest contingent in the program.” Students participating in this year’s program will receive four
course credits for their work in India. Junior Carole Loptson, a participant in the 1979 program, said of those who
will be attending the India program, “The group is really diverse, interesting, and outgoing. We are all looking forward to
this wonderful learning experience.”

Students selected to participate in the program must have at least a 2.75 GPA and have completed two years of
academic work. Beginning this winter, applications will be accepted from rising juniors for the 1980 program.

---

The rest of the text appears to be unrelated to the main article about the India program and seems to
be part of another article or section. If you need that part cleaned as well, please let me know!be given
out at 4:00 P.M., rather than earlier in the day. Also, workers would be required to begin checking in and
out at lunchtime. Rolland considered both of these actions unnecessary inconveniences. Rolland felt the changes in the procedures occurred because
he and McIntosh had asked for their paycheck at an earlier time. “We privately felt it had something to do
with us,” said Rolland.

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze gave another reprimand to the three employees approximately two weeks after the petition was drawn
up and presented. As a result, all three were transferred to different jobs and put on ninety days’ probation. Their
pay rate, seniority, and benefits remained the same as before the reprimands were issued.

According to the College's statement, the actions were taken because of “continued conduct, which, according to other employees as well
as the supervisor, interrupted the orderly flow of work, tended to undermine the authority of the supervisor, was offensive to
fellow workers, and contributed to a state of tension and poor morale in the department.” Rolland denies all of these
charges. When asked whether the other employees agreed with him, he said that six employees signed the January reprimand.

The three employees then requested a hearing before an administrative court. The January reprimand was to stand. The committee also
recommended that the three employees be returned to their original jobs after such time had passed as decided by their
superiors. Only one of the employees—David Alexander—has been returned to his original job. Rolland feels Alexander was given his former
duties back because of the Labor Board complaint.

Rolland feels he was reprimanded for stating there was a communications problem in the department. “I was given a reprimand
for drawing up a petition,” he said. “For a minor offense if it’s an offense at all.” Meetze and Cashion
refused to make any more comment than what was in the statement issued by the Personnel Department. When asked about
the case, College President Samuel Spencer said that because the case had become a legal one, the advice of the
College’s legal counsel was not to say anything beyond the prepared statement.

Rolland said that he has been expressing the feelings of the other employees, although they have been mostly silent. “They
keep their complaints to themselves,” he said. “I thought they needed voicing.” He feels talking openly about things is important.

The hearing will be held before an administrative court, not a legal court. The judge in the hearing will be
employed by the board. Rolland will be represented by an attorney from the NLRB. Rolland thinks he can win and
said he would feel he had won if he was returned to his former job. He also says he has
never considered quitting the Physical Plant or moving from Davidson.
