THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South's Foremost College Weekly

Volume LXVIII, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson N.C.

Bliss Zimmermann bumps Boulton
By JIM GARRETT
Staff Correspondent

Professor of History Jonathan Boulton was informed recently that his pending contract has not been renewed. Boulton, who arrived at
Davidson in the fall of 1975, confirmed that his second two-year contract was the only one of six or seven
other faculty contracts not renewed by Academic Affairs Vice President Price Zimmermann.

Boulton learned of the decision on December 15 from Zimmermann. According to Boulton, Zimmermann made the decision in close consultation
with President Samuel Spencer. Boulton was not a candidate for tenure. Speaking candidly, he expressed his sincere disappointment at the
decision but added that he had been approached as early as September concerning this possibility.

As to the reason for the Vice President’s decision, Boulton mentioned that “the small student attraction for his Early Middle
Ages and Later Middle Ages courses was directly involved.” He said that “there are ten to fifteen students in these
classes each term” and commented that “this situation burdens other department professors with larger classes.” Boulton stressed that he knew
of no specific complaints that either Zimmermann or Spencer had against him in his four years at Davidson.

Boulton’s future plans are uncertain, although he has communicated with several colleges concerning openings in their history departments. Zimmermann refused
to confirm that Boulton’s contract was not renewed, maintaining (see Boulton, page 11).

English professor named director of Honors Center
By MARK BARRETT
Assistant News Editor

English Professor Frank Bliss will be the new Dean of the Center for Special Studies, beginning in September of this
year, the College announced recently. The appointment was made by President Spencer in replacement of Dr. Robert Avinger, whose three-year
term as Dean of the Center expires at the end of this academic year. Avinger will return to full-time duties
as an economics professor next fall. Bliss’ term, as in College policy, will also last three years.

Bliss, who has taught at the Center for six years, said Tuesday, “I am very excited about the educational possibilities
of the Center, and look forward to assuming my new duties.” “I believe very much in the opportunities that the
Center has to offer, and in the importance of the availability of such interdisciplinary studies to students.”

Bliss said he has no great changes or special plans for the Center as of yet, partly because he said,
“What can be taught at the Center is largely determined by the abilities and interests of its faculty. Next year’s
faculty will not be decided until the end of this month,” he added. Choosing the Center’s faculty will be a
joint decision among Bliss, academic department heads, and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann.

Bliss did say that he hopes to encourage more independent study by students in the Center, and is considering starting
a program dealing with the relationship between science and human values. (see Bliss, page 11)

Friday night's ice storm caused minor damage to several campus trees. (Gregg Strader)

College names WDAV executive; sticks mainly to classical format
By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

The Department of Communications has recently hired two professional radiomen for top spots at WDAV-FM. Edison S. McIntyre, music director
of Wake Forest University’s WFDD-FM, will serve as director of radio. Frederick J. McCune, currently chief engineer of WOOO in
Statesville, will serve WDAV in this same capacity. McCune plans to work for both stations part-time.

McIntyre has several years of experience in radio. He worked as both announcer and classical music programmer for WRUF-FM at
the University of Florida. There he earned a B.A. in music history and literature and a B.S. in broadcasting. As
WDAV’s director of radio, McIntyre will be responsibleFor programming and general day-to-day operations. He is the station’s first full-time director.
His duties were previously performed by members of the student staff of WDAV. McIntyre, who will assume his new duties
on February 12, (see WDAV, page 11)

Friday, January 19, 1979.

Faculty defeats tenure proposal by narrow margin

Main opposition comes from older professors

By DENNIS MCLAWHORN
Senior News Editor

The proposed tenure evaluation committee received a majority of faculty votes Tuesday, but not the two-thirds necessary for its adoption
as an amendment to the Faculty By-Laws. The proposal was approved at its first reading in November by a similar
majority, but fell eight votes short of approval Tuesday.

The tenure committee, proposed by the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC), was designed to serve in an advisory capacity in the
evaluation of faculty tenure candidates. “The Tenure Committee proposal,” according to Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann, “would have simply made
explicit the role the faculty now plays.”

PAC Chairman Brown Patterson said that the decision was preceded by a long debate, which he described as “very fruitful
and constructive.” Professor of History David Shi concurred, “The meeting had a positive atmosphere. There were strong points on both
sides.”

Patterson said the younger faculty were “overwhelmingly” for the proposal and the administration was for it, but the major opposition
came from senior faculty members. One tenured faculty member, English Professor Gill Holland, had released a letter on December 5
urging the faculty to defeat the proposal. His two main arguments (see Tenure, page 11)

Disenchantment with the honor system grows among the faculty

By ANN GARNER
Research Director
and DONALD CALDWELL
Asst. Research Director

“I frankly am concerned about the state of the honor code at this time... Many faculty members believe there has
been a general weakening of the honor system. A few faculty are intensely disenchanted and actively seeking to curtail it,”
said Dean of Students Will H. Terry in his recent issue of the Outbasket.

This concern focuses on the faculty's belief that students have become increasingly careless about the Honor Code. Specifically, the dissatisfaction
centers upon self-scheduled exams. “I believe there has been some decline in sensitivity among both students and faculty regarding the
Honor Code,” suggested Professor of Religion Alexander J. McKelway. Hearing Committee Chairman Jamie Watt added, “I’ve felt it coming for
two years. The students have been getting slack. I’ve felt a more relaxed attitude from some comments by students kidding
about it.”

Self-scheduled exams were initiated by former Vice President for Academic Affairs John Bevin during the 1970-71 school year. In previous
years, the Student Government Association had made unsuccessful overtures toward initiating a change. Under Bevin’s encouragement and support, the idea
was revamped and eventually instituted. According to Professor of Psychology John Kelton, after faculty approval of the measure, it was
also decided that a formal examination of “the system's performance” was to be made after two years. Such an examination
has never been officially conducted.

“At the beginning there was a great deal of optimism about self-scheduling,” said Professor of English Charles Cornwell, “but this
has eroded.” Student Government Association President Bruce Brown sees that since its initiation self-scheduled exams have come to be equated
with the Honor Code in the minds of the students. “No students have been at Davidson when the Honor System
was working and self-scheduled exams weren't a feature of that system. The Honor Code is stressed most around the exam
period. The link has been made. Self-scheduled exams have become the tangible and unique feature of Davidson's Honor System and
have been emphasized as such.”

Terry explained further, “Self-scheduled exams have become a symbol to students of the viability of the Honor System.” (see Honor,
page 11)
