By JEFF MCARN Staff Writer

“This bread is my body, broken for you... This cup is the new covenant in my blood.” Doughnuts and coffee may be, theologically speaking, a long way from bread and wine, but then so is first-century Palestine from twentieth-century Davidson. Yet there is still the new covenant at the College church. (Communion only in a general social sense... doughnuts and coffee haven’t quite replaced unleavened bread and grape juice — yet.)

The DCPC Congregational Care Committee has made a new step in the covenant. Beginning with last Sunday, the Committee established a coffee and doughnut session. Yet the Davidson community seems to have always depended upon the relationship between the College and the church as a basis of common cohesion. There are those who would say there was no greater sense of community than there was when the entire Davidson body would assemble together periodically.

In the early days, Davidson personnel would gather five days a week at the ten o’clock hour in Love Auditorium for the institution of chapel. Dr. Charles Cornwell was a part of that tradition when he was a student here. For him and his contemporaries, chapel was something less than the awe-inspiring thing it was intended to be. “It was bad,” Dr. Cornwell puts it, “simply in that we were required to do it. We focused on the mechanics of chapel, not on the spirit.”

For each Davidson student, there was the precious privilege known as the “cut.” There were a certain number of cuts allotted to each student each semester. “At the time,” says Cornwell, “I could have told you down to the letter how many cuts I had.” It was when the last cut was spent that the Davidson student, back to the wall, called upon ingenuity to save him from a fatal check in the role monitor's notebook. Mannequin torsos suddenly disappeared from local shop windows and reappeared in vacant chapel seats.

Not only was the community spirit behind chapel questionable, but its religious element was open to question. “Every chapel,” recalls Cornwell, “had to open with a hymn and a prayer. It had to go through the form even if the program was Shaw Smith pulling an egg out of a hat or something.” And some of the preachers who passed across the stage of Love Auditorium apparently left a good bit to be desired. There were, according to Cornwell, some real “losers from the boondocks.” But Cornwell concedes that the Davidson student audience was no prize either. During certain announcements at chapel, the students would respond to certain pre-specified “code words” and the speaker would suddenly hear the stomping of a thousand pairs of feet on the floor. More often than not, the ploy succeeded in the elimination of the tiresome speakers from future chapel appearances.

And there was no real guarantee that chapel would be dignified. Some were pep rallies for sporting events, some bordered on being rowdy. Will Terry worked here then as college chaplain, and one of...his responsibilities was to coordinate the chapel programs. "One of the rare chapels," recalled Terry, "featured Dr. Frontis Johnston." In some of his chapel talks, Johnston was "less than complimentary" of Abraham Lincoln for some reason. Dr. Johnston saw fit to be less than complimentary of Robert E. Lee, according to Terry. Three or four minutes into his derisive remarks, a fresh KA (none other than the father of Aurie Hall) leapt to his feet and in rebel fashion declared, "Anybody believes that oughta be taken out and hung!" The silence must have been overwhelming. At length, another student took the floor and shouted out some remarks, something about being raised in a barn. A shouting match quickly ensued and grew more and more heated until, through the back doors of the auditorium, in came the rebel forces. Yes, it was the KAs decked in Confederate threads, come to the rescue of their lone combatant Hall. They swarmed the room, railroaded out the other student, kicking off the first KA Old South Weekend and hammering one nail in the coffin of the chapel service.

Will Terry, as chaplain, was responsible also for the vespers services. Although students who were away for the weekend may have had to "drive like fury" to get back to Davidson by 7:30, Sunday evening vespers, according to Dr. Cornwell, was a pill less bitter for the Davidson student to swallow. A number of faculty homes were open to students after vespers. A list was available as to which ones were welcoming students on a particular Sunday night.

Another part of Will Terry’s old job was to be secretary of the YMCA. During these years the YMCA was of great campus importance. The president of the Y was inferior in prestige only to the president of the student government. All students were members of the Y and Y programs coordinated much of student activity. It handled freshman orientation, it created the Wildcat Handbook, the original hall counselors were Y cabinet members, it provided some of the leadership for the founding of Calvary Presbyterian Church, and it was responsible for the annual Christmas Vespers.

Will Terry’s remembrances of the sixties, which saw him both as the college chaplain and as minister at DCPC, are characterized by turmoil. The chapel and vespers programs were dropped, and there was a great deal of mutual hostility between the students and the congregation at DCPC. Reflecting the then-current rebellion against authority, the students, to Terry, seemed more "pro-God, anti-church." "There was a lot of anxiety," says Will, "a loss of a sense of community."

In 1973 the leaders of the college and the church embarked on an experiment in campus ministry in an effort to patch up the program. They created the position of Minister to Students. A call went out that same year to Rush Otey to fill this new position. One of the main reasons for the change, Otey said, was to make the Minister of Students more visible. Particularly, preaching from the pulpit was a means of giving some exposure to the Minister to Students, whereas before he said he felt a "lack of support." (see Religion, page x)