(Continued from page 1) and 17 supported one. Similarly, 35 professors rejected the idea of the Administration's using a completely standardized form. Thirteen said they would be satisfied under such circumstances. Zimmermann said that if every faculty member devised his own form, "I wouldn’t be able to compare them.” One professor in the poll wrote that the evaluation form he uses in his classes, though valuable to him, would not be useful to the Administration. "Some element of uniformity and consistency must be present (in evaluation forms),” Zimmermann said. McKelway, however, opposes any standardized form: “Evaluation of people is never done easily. The greatest danger is to believe that simple, easily gathered instruments provide accuracy of judgment.”

After seeing the poll's results, Abbott (Continued from page 1) said, “I think it reveals basically what I expected: (the Faculty wants) mandatory evaluation but not through a uniform questionnaire.” Zimmermann feels the variety of possible evaluation systems is limited. “I don’t share the view that there are many other options. I am convinced that this (the ICES form) was the most flexible and informative system that we are likely to find.” Several faculty members suggested that those who rejected the ICES forms bear some responsibility for selecting an alternative system. McKelway suggested that evaluation is best conducted through a variety of means. He mentioned use of short forms (like the ICES form), student essays, class discussions, information from recent alumni, and consultation with departmental majors. “I think the list could go on a good bit about different ways to go about it,” McKelway said. “You need to use creativity.”

French Professor Charles Dockery said, “Any evaluation system must allow for open-ended questions.” However, professors were split almost evenly on whether open-ended questions should be used in place of standardized forms. One professor who responded negatively faulted the questionnaire’s wording. He said he opposed open-ended questions replacing standardized forms but favored such questions being used in conjunction with such forms. The poll indicates that whatever system the faculty adopt, the students’ ability to evaluate them concerns many professors. Although 38 professors agreed and only 7 disagreed that Davidson students were mature enough to evaluate them well, several professors qualified their support of student judgment. Several professors suggested that only seniors and recent alumni had enough perspective to fairly evaluate professors. One professor feared that some students might maliciously evaluate professors. Many felt that students should sign evaluation forms. Also, the Faculty resoundingly opposed any evaluation system designed and administered exclusively by students. Many faculty members also had misgivings about the Administration. Twenty-four professors felt that the Administration would use evaluation forms with their best interests in mind; twenty-one did not. Also, two professors mentioned the tenure decisions of last May as evidence of the Administration's lack of concern for the Faculty. Just as they criticized the ICES forms, several professors felt the Davidsonian questionnaire reduced complex issues to yes-no responses. McKelway said there were “some apparent inconsistencies,” but regarded them as problems inherent in the format.

“I have nine children. I have two left. The others are dead from starvation. In the beginning we were permitted to have one bowl of rice per day but soon after we were only given a bowl of soup: two hundred and fifty grams of rice, banana tree leaves, a few vegetables, ears of corn, water. This was the ration for one hundred people.” She also reported, “I saw nine and ten-year-old children; I thought they were five. Others who appeared to be eighteen months were actually four. They are stunned, huddled amongst themselves and resemble the surviving children of the Nazi concentration camps.” Dr. Alan Gordon, a missionary recently returned from the Thai border, told the solicitors, “feed a child for a month.” And Rush Otey pointed out that it’s almost impossible to find a child under five in Cambodia. The ones that have survived suffer severe malnutrition and brain damage. Several organizations have responded to the crying needs of the Cambodian people. UNICEF, OXFAM, and numerous others are sending food, but more is needed. Experts estimate it will take 1000 tons of food daily to prevent mass death by starvation. Money raised at Davidson will be sent to Church World Service and to UNICEF. If aid channels close to Cambodia, the money will be used to relieve an equally desperate situation in the refugee camps on the Thai border.

(Continued from page 1) The Trustees had specified in the minutes of their October 1972 meeting that, since a radio station had a “public relations” aspect, WDAV’s programming should be “closely and continually supervised by the College Administration.” The 1976 College Constitution, however, had listed WDAV as a student organization governed by the Student Media Board. As a student organization, the station had received money from the Activities Tax Council. The transition to high power was made in June 1978. In October the Trustees voted to remove the students from WDAV’s administration and to hire professional staffers, possibly including qualified students. The station’s programming would be “primarily classical.” The student staff of WDAV resigned in protest. The furor of accusations and justifications which followed died down, and WDAV went back into operation in its present form on December 2.1978. Now, McIntyre said, there are about 15 paid student staff members. According to a September 1978 statement by President Spencer, one of the purposes of a high-power classical station was to “generate long term general support” for the College. McIntyre said that it is too early to expect such support. “Long term means 10-15-20 years. It takes time for a station to get established. Ultimately, what we hope is that people will support the College simply because of the public service the station renders.”

(Continued from page 1)

...their abilities as Davidson on the student body.” Even a few of the registered candidates filed only after some last-minute recruiting. Dean of Students Will Terry pointed out that there have been such problems with elections before. He thought one of the reasons for the poor response may be the scheduling of elections in the busy three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Terry suggested that it may be better to have elections only twice a year; in the spring and the fall.

WDAV

Another reason cited by the Trustees for the changeover was the need for a classical music station in the Charlotte area. This spring, UNCC’s WFAE, which broadcasts classical, jazz, and educational programs, will increase its power from 10 to 100,000 watts. When asked if this would affect WDAV’s purpose, McIntyre said, “There is room for several public stations in the Charlotte area. I hope we will complement each other.” WFAE’s Program Director Chris Wright said that when the station increases broadcast time to 18 hours, it will keep its classical music broadcasting at its present level of 12 hours. “Probably jazz will be increased,” he said. Wright said he is considering McIntyre’s suggestion that WFAE play classical music after 10 pm, when WDAV switches to jazz, instrumental, and rock. However, he said, “you have to compete. We don’t want to lose our audience by switching back and forth from jazz to classical.” McIntyre said he hopes WDAV will eventually “branch out” in new areas, such as local news. “But we will remain essentially a classical station for a long while to come,” he added.

Now, a group of students led by Janet Coleman, Candy Hawkes, and David Sappenfield is pushing for a campus carrier-current station, which would connect to the dorms with cables. Coleman said that the Media Board will soon make a recommendation to President Spencer to approve the carrier current radio system. The expected cost of setting up such a system is $6,000. If the system is approved, Coleman said, “I hope we can start ordering equipment, work out our staff organization, and be on the air by spring term.” The station would probably be located in the basement of Belk dormitory. 225 students answered a survey concerning the carrier current system distributed last week, according to Coleman. 74.5% of those who responded felt that the carrier current radio would benefit the entire student body, and 48% indicated there was a considerable or great need for such a station. 82.3% said they would spend 25% or more of their radio listening time tuned in to the college station. The campus station’s programming, Coleman said, would be “really varied—what people want.” She said the group plans to conduct another poll dealing exclusively with programming. “As far as I’m concerned,” McIntyre said, “the carrier current station is a fine idea. Such a station is not a plaything.”

The lack of interest in the elections “is an awful reflection,” Jackson said. He went on to say that “we need to sit down and look at how we schedule elections.” He blamed the student body for the lack of interest. He pointed out that this year’s elections received “more publicity than any election in the last two years.” Announcements appeared in The Davidsonian and the announcement sheet, and posters were displayed in Chambers and in front of the library. Both Jackson and Terry acknowledged that the winter elections held for organizations like the Y Student Service Corps, Union offices, and various publications are often subject to a “dynastic system.” These offices require special skills and a knowledge of the organization. Therefore, not every member of the student body would seek such office. Jackson felt that this situation is unfortunate. He hoped that candidates for such offices will not be chosen behind closed doors among the members of their organization. Jackson hoped there will not be such lack of interest in the spring elections. He promised that the SGA will do whatever is necessary to publicize the elections. “If we need to wallpaper everyone’s rooms in the spring, we will,” he said.

SGA (Continued from page 1)

Jackson mentioned the possibility of having a student in each class obtain a class roll and give each student a form outside of class. Another method might be to have a place in the Union where students could pick up and deposit the forms. Jackson estimated that the forms will cost the SGA roughly $600-$700 per term, including the winter term and probably afterwards. Whether or not this will strain the SGA budget will be up to the new group of directors to be elected this spring, Jackson said.