Little Library housed secret treasure

Literary detective Nelson tracks works of Thoreau

By NANCY MCNAIR
Staff Writer

When English professor Randy Nelson first came to Davidson for interviews, he neglected the library on three separate occasions. Not
until teaching his first English 104 class did he make his astonishing discovery in the E.H. Little Library stacks.

“You'd have thought he’d been shot out of a cannon running down those stairs with that book,” remembers Library Director
Leland Park.

The cause of all this excitement: a scarce edition of Henry David Thoreau’s works, a page written in Thoreau’s now-fading
hand bound into the cover to ensure its rarity. Apparently, the wisest thing about Thoreau’s sister Sophia was her name.
Instead of seeing that her dead brother's work be published, she released a trunk full of principally unpublished material for
use in a promotional scheme.

According to Nelson, the publishers, Houghton, Mifflin, and Company, used a practice known as “tipping” to enhance the sales of
their 1906 collection, The Writings of Henry David Thoreau. This involves binding a page of the original manuscript in the
first volume of each set. Thus, 600 copies of the “manuscript” edition and 200 copies of the “Walden” edition have
carried with them a total of 800 pages of unpublished Thoreau writings.

Nelson’s job as editor of the tentatively titled Nature Essays and Literary Remains is to round up these tipped pages
and place them in sequence for Thoreau scholars. In 1973 Nelson began proofreading and manuscript work as a Princeton graduate
student. Upon graduation came his appointment as editor on the Thoreau project. From Princeton and now Davidson, he has sent
between 7500 and 9000 letters, canvassing libraries for copies of the 1906 edition.

So far, the results of his work have been encouraging. “Of 800 pages, we now have around 500, enough to
begin making deductions,” said Nelson. “The best source seems to be Presbyterian preachers’ widows, little old ladies in North Dakota
or somewhere who write that their husbands loved to read,” he added.

However, Nelson has his problems with rare book dealers who wish to preserve the rarity of their merchandise by refusing
publication. Ironically, Nelson never sent a letter to Davidson College, shrugging off his near-hometown school. One day, however, he went
to the stacks to look for the Standard Thoreau edition for a class. Nelson leapt at the sight of the
1906 edition on the shelf. “But don't worry, it was safe,” he noted. “The book hadn’t been checked out since
about 1952.” Director Park immediately sprinted the book to the rare book room where it now rests in the autograph
section.

“It's a little unnerving to think that something like that is up there,” declared Park. The fragment of manuscript bound
in the Davidson copy, numbered 364 of 600, reveals a tentative hand in brown ink on faintly blue-lined paper. The
editor must become a graphologist of sorts, deciding whether the pencil corrections are original to the author. Nelson notes of
Thoreau’s handwriting that “...by 1861, Thoreau is dying and he knows it. His writing becomes chicken scratch.” He dates the
Davidson page in the 1850s and identifies the pencil as Thoreau’s own hand.

Although Thoreau never titled the essay containing the Davidson page, Nelson and his colleagues tentatively call it New Wildcat Checking
helps Davidson students 3 ways. Piedmont Bank & Trust Co. has developed a new Wildcat Checking plan just for Davidson
students. Here’s what it gives you: 1. Simplified checking. You can write up to 10 checks amorith for three of
these benefits. Walk only $2 a month. There’s no minimum balance, and additional checks are only 20¢. When you take
a summer vacation, there’s no charge at all if you don't use your Master Charge card. You get your own
Master Charge card, honored nationwide, good for up to $300 credit.

3. Convenient statements. Each month, you receive detailed statements of your checking account. Only Piedmont Bank offers you all these
benefits. Come across Main Street today and open your own Wildcat Checking account. See what we mean when we say
“We Care.”

MEMBER F.D.I.C.

October 5, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

Professor Randy Nelson examines the scarce Henry David Thoreau edition that he found in the E.H. Little Library. “Nature and
Moonlight.” In sparse prose, Thoreau describes the meticulous work of the stone-cutter:

His work is slow and expensive. Nature is here hard to be overcome. He must sharpen his tools oftener than
the carpenter. He fights with granite. He knows the temper of the rock. He grows strong himself; his tread is
ponderous and steady like the fall of a rock.

Nelson states that “under severe and heated attacks” at professional meetings, he has argued that these unpublished works would have
been a sequel to Walden. He hopes to have the edition ready for a two-volume publication by the Princeton University
Press in the 1980s.

Library Director Park often has the experience of professors coming by and saying, “would you believe that the Davidson Library
has...” “And most of the time, we bought the book when it first came out,” he added. Park credits this
wealth of first-editions material to the wise selection by Davidson professors over the years. “And I expect that someone like
Dr. Nelson will come through and find more treasures in our library.”

Take a few moments and visit the rare book room. (Wear a sweater; it is a bit cool in there.)
Feel the deckle-edged pages of the seventy-three-year-old volume. Study the daguerreotype of Henry David Thoreau on the frontispiece with his
half-moon fringe of beard and drooping brow. Read Thoreau in Thoreau’s own hand. Check your attic and your grandmother’s for
the 1906 edition. And let Randy Nelson tell you the proper way to pronounce “Thoreau.”

Alumni converge here for Homecoming Weekend

By ELIZABETH WILSON
Staff Correspondent

The administration is preparing for a large-scale invasion this weekend. A battalion of over 400 veterans are en route at
this very moment, planning to bombard the campus in staggered attacks beginning Friday afternoon. We considered sending out the National
Guard, but Zack Long and the folks at the alumni office had a better idea: they scheduled so many barbecues,
tours, receptions, and picnics that the invaders won't have the time or the energy to do much damage. Pretty good
idea, huh?

Well, the returning alumni think so too, and they plan to enjoy this Homecoming Weekend even more than us students
(if that’s humanly possible). The foray begins with an Alumni/Varsity Baseball game Friday afternoon, followed by a Barbecue and Brew
for the class of 1974 at Dean Terry’s. Saturday will include a blitzkrieg of meetings, tours, receptions, reunions (focusing on
the classes of 1909, 1914, 1919, 1974, 1977, 1978, and 1979), culminating in a Homecoming Luncheon and, of course, the
football game.

So if you notice a few suspicious-looking characters lurking about the campus this weekend, don’t call Security. Use the official
counterattack strategy; march right up and say hello. You probably won’t be bayonetted and you may even learn something.
