‘DAVIDSONIAN _ Founded 1914

Needed: Minimum Sanction

Dean Terry’s original proposed addition to the Code of disciplinary procedure stated that “Any student found guilty of an Honor Code Violation will ordinarily be suspended for a minimum of one year, excluding the freshman year.” A minimum sanction is needed for cases of cheating, stealing, or lying under oath. But an automatic one-year suspension seems severe. Terry is willing to negotiate the length; everyone should appreciate the need for such a sanction. Terry has stated that regardless of how long the minimum sanction is, he and the Honor Committee need to agree upon one.

Currently, any student who is charged with an Honor Code violation can choose whether to let the Dean of Students or the Honor Council handle the case. Once a judiciary body has accepted a case, it is asked to do two things:
1) to investigate the facts and determine guilt or innocence
2) if guilt is proved, impose a sanction.

The Terry Proposal affects only the latter. After the taxing ordeal of “weighing all evidence” to see if “the proof of violation is clear and convincing,” the determination of a just sanction is sometimes impaired by compassion for the student involved by the members of the Council or the Dean. Determination of sanction is often an emotionally exhausting decision and is made even more demanding when a defendant plays on the human element. Pressure to succeed and please loved ones are used by some defendants, but these pleas shouldn't be allowed to unjustly interfere with the proper administration of the Honor Code.

During my three years on the Honor Council, I have seen how compassion can compromise the effectiveness of both the Honor Council and the Dean of Students. We are human. Our judgments are not always consistent. We need a guideline, a standard to work from. A minimum sentence would help us to do our job better. A minimum sanction would not take away from the flexibility of the procedure. Cases with extenuating circumstances will still be accommodated. Anyone dissatisfied with the decision by either the Dean or the Honor Council can appeal their case to the Review Board.

In the past, minimum sanctions have been rather vague. This has sometimes resulted in inconsistent sentences. A minimum sentence of at least two terms must be agreed upon by both the Dean of Students and the Honor Council. Then, after several months of using this verbal guideline, an appropriate minimum sentence should be incorporated into the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. It’s only fair.

The Campus Forum

A Precedent?

Editor's Note: The author of this letter is the chairman of the Davidson Honor Council.

To the Editor:

Your editorial of September 14 concerning the Review Board decision to postpone a student’s suspension from Fall ’79 until the winter term closed with the statement, “Under these circumstances a full report from the Review Board appears not only justified but imperative.” Unfortunately, the Review Board cannot make public statements about any of the appeals which it reviews without the written consent of the student involved. In the particular case, that written consent does not appear to be forthcoming and therefore, in regard to the particulars of this case, we are left only with rumor and conjecture.

It is for this reason I suggest that our major concerns are the effects of this decision on student and faculty morale and the possibility that the college community will view it as a precedent for future sanctions.Code is probably the most important aspect of life at Davidson, and certainly one in which students take great pride. The faculty and student body entrust the execution of the Honor System to a select group of its members which they elect. Unfortunately, the dissatisfaction of students and faculty alike, as evidenced by their widespread discussion of this case, demonstrates that their confidence in the Review Board is not as strong as it should be. We definitely have a problem of morale. We must also be concerned with the possibility that the decision sets a precedent for future sanctions. The student involved, as pointed out in last week’s editorial, is a prominent athlete and therefore many people view the decision as evidence that preferential treatment is going to be given to athletes at the expense of the Honor Code. This is not and never will be the case. Davidson is an institution dedicated to academics, and athletics, although very important, must come second. In this light, a student who appeals his suspension from the college on the grounds that a course he wants to take is offered only in the term in question, would be more justified than a student who wants to return to participate in his sport. However, neither of these situations provides legitimate grounds for appeal. Davidson College has an Honor Code which all students agree to live by before they come here, and any who do not live by that code will be suspended from the college. This brings us to the other question of precedent. Can a student’s suspension from the college be postponed? The answer is no and here the Review Board committed a serious error. It has always been the understanding of the Dean of Students and the Honor Council that a sanction of suspension is effective immediately and that multiple terms of suspension will be served consecutively. To avoid any future confusion over this point which heretofore was considered so mundane as not to require codification, there is a proposal before the Student Conduct Council to add this in writing to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. It is true that the Review Board has the power to reduce any sanction to one which they deem more appropriate. Unfortunately, they did not reduce the sanction but instead sought to reduce the severity of the sanction. In conclusion, it is obvious that the Review Board decision, for whatever reason it was made, cannot be justified. However, the decision has been made, and there is no reason for anyone to expect it to be reversed at this point. We all commit errors in judgment, and it is through such errors that we grow and our institutions are strengthened. Whatever decision the Review Board made, I am sure was made with the best interest of the college community in mind. We must not let our disapproval of this one decision undermine our confidence in the Review Board or the Honor System as a whole.

Robert McEwen, '80

The Answer

To the Editor:

I should like to announce the answer to the puzzle seen around Davidson during the past two weeks: American flag, capital W, brand-name basketball shoes = Alenda lux ubi orta libertas. Correct answers did not necessarily have to be in Classical Latin; all Indo-European languages were acceptable. Thank you.

Simon Barnes, '82
Chairman
Student Extension of the Minorities Expression Network

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. Letters may be edited for space.