Try Hard To Stay Behind
Lex Alexander

It’s now the last few days before Christmas break, and the traditional patterns are taking hold. Thursday and Friday are
marked in blood red and doom black on almost everyone's academic calendars. Typewriters, for use in preparing the term’s first
theme, clack in almost every other room. Chambers 209 and 210 have more customers at four in the morning than
Slater at the height of the dinner hour.

Everyone, upperclassmen as well as the freshmen, gets taken in by the first week (or two) of a brand-new term.
Five band parties in six nights and the commencement of basketball season, among other things, combine to lure all but
the most hardcore of ’brair rats away from their studies. In the finest tradition of Davidson students, everyone gets wonderfully
behind in the first two weeks of the term—and pays hell to play catch-up during the third week.

Cooking cats in Fry-Babies gives way to making coffee as a favorite dorm room pastime. Caffeine becomes more important than
breathing. Harried students swear up and down, right and left, that they will get ahead over Christmas break. When one
goes home for the holidays, one finds that one’s body accustoms itself to eight hours’ sleep per night rather quickly.
One gets used to not going to classes. By the end of the first week, one has come to consider
as almost an act of sacrilege to open a book for any purpose other than sheer pleasure and relaxation. It’s
funny how that works.

In the meantime, though, everyone wades through the 1100 pages of reading that somehow accumulated over the last ten days,
doses out on something or other to counteract the fever, chills, runny nose, stuffy nose, sore throat, cough, laryngitis, or
any combination of the above that everyone contracts just before Christmas, and keeps waiting for 5 pm Friday (or 10
pm Thursday or whatever, depending on how long a trip it is and the review schedule for Friday) to signal
the beginning of three weeks of semi-adulterated freedom. Until then, students do what Davidson students have done best since 1837:
suffer.

Y’all have a nice break and remember: this time you'll work and get ahead. Sure you will.

Lex Alexander is a sophomore who wants to be a disc jockey when he grows up. His only friends are
a dying cullie and the SPE’s.

What Should Have Been
Jim Coombs

There should have been some mistletoe
And snow upon the ground,
Merry laughter, lots of presents
And the children gathered ‘round.

There should have been some bells
And trimmings on a tree,
There should have been a “quiet time”
For just you and me.

That’s what should have been!
But...

What really happened?
Cell doors slammed shut...
I cried,
Lonely tears...
I had no one!
No one to share Christmas joy
As once we had done.

And yet... the sounds I heard the whole night through
Said I was not alone.
For every other inmate dreamed
Of another Christmas...
They too, had known.

The poem and drawing are by two prison inmates at Salisbury and Huntersville. The Christmas party at Huntersville prison will
be held on Wednesday, December 19 and any students still in the area are welcomed to participate. By attending this
party and joining students who visit the prison and the Jackson training center every week, Christmas can really last past
the 25th of December.

A Matter of Survival

This column was originally printed December 4, 1979, by the Huntsville Times, Huntsville, Alabama.

There’s a debate going on these days in the academic world. “Oh, another of those ‘Ivory Tower’ discussions,” you’re probably
about to say. And yes, this one does have a certain amount of that taint. But it also has something
to do with the fate of 49 American hostages in an embassy on the other side of the world, so
stay with us for a few moments.

The debate in higher education circles has to do with the balance between a traditional liberal...Education and the new vogue
of colleges and universities providing sophisticated vocational educations. The concern among faculty and administrators of a number of major institutions
is due to several factors that are putting the future of the liberal arts college in doubt—fiscal retrenchment, inflation, declines
in enrollment, and the above-mentioned surge in vocationalism.

What may be central to the trend, and this is just our conjecture, is that the post-sixties renewal of career
respectability is coinciding with a trend toward more and more specialization in career fields. Specialization demands that college graduate job
seekers have more and more specialized knowledge applicable to the field they want to enter. Without an adjustment of the
standard four-year college stint, obtaining this kind of education means the amount of wide-ranging liberal arts study is necessarily going
to suffer.

In the face of this trend, liberal arts academics are restating the arguments in favor of their type of education.
One nutshell statement of a major point is this, from Clarke A. Chambers, chairman of a committee that has been
studying the issue at the University of Minnesota: “In the last 20 years, there’s been such an acceleration of history
that we just can’t deal with it as individuals and as a society without being prepared to move quickly beyond
what we know now. That’s why the teaching of different modes of inquiry is so important.”

Another member of the committee, Fred Lukermann, defined the liberal education as “not what you learn in a factual sense...
but the way in which you inquire, the way in which you ask questions, and then, the way you organize
what you've found so that you can act.”

All right, you say, now where does the age of embassy crisis enter into all this? A news item Sunday
provides the answer. It told of how diplomats and scholars in Moslem nations see the strong Islamic revival of recent
weeks taking the United States, and specifically the Carter administration, completely by surprise. The United States, those observers say, has
not been prepared to cope with the surge of militance by Moslems who have rebelled against U.S. influence not only
in Iran, but in Pakistan and India as well.

The analysis rings true. How many of us have even a rudimentary idea of what Islam is all about? How
many “men on the street” could respond at all to a query about the difference between Sunni and Shi'ite Moslems?
And will we improve or worsen this situation by continuing the move toward more emphasis on “nuts-and-bolts” courses at the
universities?

The point should be clear. A few weeks ago, a presidential commission reported that “Americans’ incompetence in foreign languages is
nothing short of scandalous.” This trend toward illiteracy in anything but English hurts the nation not only in trade and
diplomacy, the commission said, but “in citizen comprehension of the world in which we live and compete.” It’s simply part
of the same movement as the academics are talking about.

In their own unique way, Davidson students are showing concern not only for refugees on the Thai border. A survey
of over fifty Davidson students indicated that they are also very disturbed over the holding of American hostages in Iran
and with Carter Administration efforts to extinguish the crisis. Thirty-seven do not want to attempt a rescue of the hostages,
believing such action fatal. Forty-one agree that the U.S. should take military action against Iran either now or after the
hostages have been tried as spies. Twenty-two feel there should be no military action before the trials take place. Thirty-nine
prefer the crisis be handled entirely through diplomatic channels if possible. None of those surveyed want to swap the shah
for the hostages.
