By BAD and BONEHEAD
Staff Writers

Nano, nano. As we head into the final seven weeks of winter term, we must put away our bongs, Buds,
whips, and chains, and once again focus on our academic pursuits which inevitably will lead to great wealth and narrow-mindedness.
In keeping in line with this, we will fashion our valedictory article after the old Roman format, debate. This week's
point-counterpoint is on Woody Hayes.

Bonehead—PRO:
"Bernard, you pompous overbearing fool. Woody Hayes had every right and reason to punch that arrogant high-paid non-student athlete into
the ozostratrosphere. I pat Woody on the back for making his symbolic gesture against the big-time commercialized sports that have
no purpose on our small college campuses. I admire Woody for standing up for his rights, his lefts, his combinations,
and his.

"For years it has been considered the American way for the individual to pull his own weight, and by damn,
Woody just said to himself, 'Self, if nobody else will tackle that guy, then I will just pound his face
in.' And Bernie, I believe that good violence is just as American as hot dogs, Chevrolets, and Hi-Liters. And finally,
that young man, being from Clemson, was probably a redneck and drove the lead tractor in the Clemson Christmas jubilee
parade. Woody’s punch probably straightened him out, and so Woody Hayes, my kind of man and my choice for Coach
of the Year."

Bernard—CON:
"Bonehead, how can you possibly be so feeble-minded and vacuous? Your reasoning sounds more like that of a fifth grader
than that of the overpaid imbecile. It was obvious to the millions of television viewers across this great country that
the punch Woody Hayes threw was not even a good one. What I ask is why all this fuss over
a punch that would not even get a comment from Howard Cosell in a Spinks-Ali fight.

"Hayes barely grazed the guy, causing only minor discomfort from the gums to the bicuspids. Now, if Woody would have
done something truly sensational and dramatic like grabbing the yard marker stake and driving it through the young man’s chest,
causing immediate death, then I could see your claim that Hayes should be named Coach of the Year.

"It was clear that his punch no longer contained that awesome force that it once possessed in that long, lost,
and forgotten golden era when he punched numerous players, students, and fans. With all the brilliant young fighters in America
today, it just seems fair that Hayes should be fired, and someone else given a chance to beat people. Woody
Hayes—over the hill and out to lunch."

This is the opinion of this staff, and if you disagree, well that’s just too bad. For a free spoken
copy of this editorial, just stop by either of our rooms. Now on with the news. Our number one team
before...Christmas, the SAE’s plus one, continue to hold that spot. They downed the Tools, 68-45, behind Adrian Wilson’s 22 points.
Dwight Anderson Petrou had 15 for the losers. The SAE’s added 6’5” Carter Todd to their roster, and this might
be helpful once Tim Goodell has to leave for baseball. The second spot is still held by Bye. Dave Jones
and company wasted Van Halen, 77-32, and Rodger Hodge was high man with 22. The Excitable Boys edged the Bonecrushers
by 4 in a game that was closer than it should have been. The Old Men are still undefeated (3-0)
but have yet to play any tough games. They lack the height but may be able to make up for
it with hustle. In a game involving two top ten teams, the Hole edged Cool Breeze behind the superior play
of Viest, Strader, and Ford. McLain and Hanna played well in a losing effort. The Hole also nipped the Bonecrushers,
53-46, earlier in the week. Wagon Ho claimed a pair of victories during the week, rolling by the Surrogate Mothers,
57-52, and edging Hurtin for Certain, 47-46 in OT. Rob “tri-sexual” Perz had 18 for the Mothers, and Minor Sinclair
19 for the boys on the bandwagon. Artie Merten paced Hurtin for Certain past the Five Easy Pieces, 40-36. Merten
had 12, and nobody played well for the Pieces. The Tuts proved they were overrated as they dropped consecutive games
to the Surrogate Mothers and Five Easy Pieces. Stockton, Beck, and Pollock all had double figures in those games. In
the B League, it appears that B.J.U. and Old and In the Way are the teams to beat. Mr. Sex
and the Shankers might come around by tourney time if team captain, Parks Neisler, would spend as much time in
the gym as he does at the Press Box in Charlotte.

This week’s Top Ten:
1. SAE
2. Bye
3. Excitable Boys
4. Old Men
5. Cool Breeze
6. The Hole
7. Bonecrushers
8. Wagon Ho
9. Hurtin for Certain
10. (tie) Surrogate Mothers, Five Easy Pieces

Later, eat Nidgets.

Free Hallmark Date Book
Come in today and get your free pocket calendar, a helpful memory-jogger. The Date Book includes plenty of space for
all the dates you'll want to remember in 1979.

—— CUSTOM FRAMING ——
THE COPELAND HOUSE GALLERY
SUPPLIES Art — Office — School
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Southwestern University School of Law will be on campus at the Placement Office, 10 a.m.—2 p.m., to talk with interested
students about Southwestern’s educational programs and admissions requirements:

TUESDAY, JANUARY 23, 1979

Any students who have applied or are thinking of making application to Southwestern are invited to attend. For information and
appointment, please contact Kenneth Wood, Director of Placement.

Southwestern University School of Law has served the public since 1911 as a non-profit, non-sectarian educational institution. Southwestern does not
discriminate on the basis of race, sex, religion, or national origin, in connection with admission to the school or in
the administration of any of its education, employment, financial aid, scholarship, or other programs.
