Students faced with a number of choices in next Tuesday's campus-

By JULIE GIBERT
Staff Writer
Several hotly contested student elections will be decided next Tuesday, April 10.

The officers to be elected are: sophomore, junior, and senior class senators, three members of the Council on Campus and Religious Life, Student Solicitor, Defense Advisor, members of the Student Conduct Council and the Review Board, and the Permanent Senior Class President.

The rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes will each choose three student senators on Tuesday.

Running for sophomore senators are Bill Bargmann, Steve Carter, Stuart Dorsett, Sam Fullerton, Rob Gillison, Donna Iles, Bob Klein, Chip Legerton, Bert Mobley, Ann Parker, and Ann Sanford.

Bert Mobley said he hopes the Senate will deal with problems like “the athletic budget, salary increases for professors, and the course registration system.”

Only four sophomores, Laura Bradshaw, Ron R. Davis, Vincent Long, and Kevin Pressley, are competing for the junior class Senate. Ron Davis said he is interested in college finances. “It’s good that the budget was published; this shows an increase in Trustee-Senate cooperation which is something that we really want to work for next year.” Davis also said he supports “an independent audit of the Athletic Department.”

Seven rising seniors, Michael Busch, Bill Coward, Jim Haynes, Jeff Stidham, Laura Michael, Ginger Taylor, and Kirk Williams, are running for senior class Senate.

Michael Busch said that as a senator he plans to work for establishing mid-term breaks in the fall and spring terms. He said that four-day weekends for “rest, recuperation, and catch up” after the fifth or sixth week of the term are “an attainable goal.”

Jeff Stidham said he hopes to alleviate registration problems.

Candidates for the Council are Will Grimsley, John M. Hartman, David Hoke, Lisa Johnson, John Peebles, Julie Webber, and Louis Williams.

Candidates for Student Solicitor are Fred Goodwin, Rob Hall, and Tim Stoll (running as a team) and Billy Taylor and Jim Crane (also running as a team).

Candidates for Defense Advisor are Rob King, David K. Taylor, and Andy Williams.

For the two elective spots on the Council, Anne Eglin, Mott McDonald, and Sara Stoneburner are running.

Running for student spots on the Review Board are John Hunter, Lisa Johnson, Laura Michael, and David Barnard. David Barnard is uncontested in his run for Permanent Senior Class President.

Clarifications

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date.

The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

An article on the recently announced tuition increase which began on the front page of the March 23 issue of The Davidsonian implied “that only $490,000 comes from other than student sources. In the 1977-78 budget, 30 percent of the total cost per student—something like $2,000 per student, per year—comes from gifts or endowment income,” according to Vice-President for Development Duane A. Dittman.

Dittman also said the story “had a better than usual depth and coverage of the reason and the comparative facts of such increases.”

(continued from page 1)

return before leaving Davidson. Failure to return when specified will result in loss of deposit for the student, and will require the student to reapply for admission also, Burts said.

Burts said the new deposit requirement is designed to “add gravity to the student’s commitment to return to Davidson at the end of his leave, thus establishing a more reciprocal relationship between the student and the College in this area.”

Burts explained that in the past only a signature obligated students to return to Davidson after graduation. This situation made it easy for many students not to return at all, leaving the College with empty spaces which could have been filled by a larger freshman class or more transfer students. The new restrictions were added to help the College maintain a more balanced enrollment throughout the school year, according to Burts.

The College’s enrollment usually drops as the school year progresses because of students dropping out, taking leave, or transferring. Burts said he hopes the new measures will mean more students will be coming back to Davidson at the end of their leave. He said in this situation, the College would have a larger total number of students.

April 6, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

(continued from page 1)

The new Commons will consist of two dining rooms with capacities exceeding 300 persons each.

“If planning procedures stay on schedule, the Commons should be completed by August of 1980,” Meetze said.

He explained the cumulative cost of constructing the campus Commons is still sketchy because of the peripheral costs of relocating Richards and Bailey houses and the power lines.

Disco 115

Giant TV Screen
Happy Hour: 4-7 p.m.
Draft beer - 20¢
Snack Bar & Grill
Live Band on Weekends
Hours: 11 a.m. - 1 a.m.
6 days a week
Located on Highway 115, 3 miles south of Cornelius; before Huntersville.