April 13, 1979—The Davidsonian—11

(Gregg Strader)

BB and B weather newspaper storm

By BAD BERNARD AND BONEHEAD

Jumping topsider, Fratman!!! Is there going to be a newspaper this week? Are we having classes on Good Friday? Is
the Pope Jackson? Does a great big rat eat Easter Bunny nuts? Hell Yes!

Well grasshoppers, all we have to say is that the Davidsonian staff messed up royally last week. They printed all
that garbage without even consulting us—the Kings of Garbage. We could have been invited to write the issue, but noooo!!!

Instead, it was done without our elegant Bad Bernard and Bonehead touch of class that fills our souls with the
vibrant flow of the ebony life.

So rendereth unto Bad Bernard and Bonehead things which belongeth unto us, and unto others that which is impure and
boring. For we have written for generations without reprimand. For we write of the people and for the people. Arise
Proletariat! Strike down the bourgeoisie newspaper editors.

And thus it is so. The following action took place on earth in the first weeks of April. Heed the
wise words of Bad Bernard and Bonehead for we have been to the mountain.

This past weekend the radicals from the Return of Slack got off. In the Annual Spring Frolics Challenge Softball Contest,
Slack downed Su Madre, 10-2. A couple of interesting things happened during the course of the battle. Dylan Faircloth pitched
a remarkable game for the losers considering the fact that he had consumed 17 beers and two tins of Copenhagen.
Chris “0-27” Boslet continued his slump, and Kelvin “Pigpen” Anderson proved that he is the best freshman outfielder on Slack.

In other games McFleet peeled back the Four Skins, 9-6, by the 10 run rule. Charlie’s Angels were raped by
the First Richardson Cougars, 20-10 in overtime. There were several other scores but it was raining, and I didn’t feel
like walking over to the gym to get them.

On the volleyball scene, despite what Page “Conehead” Walley might tell you, the best team by far and away is
Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony. This is the first team to have been randomly selected by the computer. If
this is successful then Sterling Martin says that all the teams will be composed in this fashion next year. The
Lost Colony includes one professor, one redhead, one Korean, one IMAC sports writer, one SAE, one baseball player, and several
groupies who travel with the team on road trips. The team has also imported a secret weapon from California who
likes to tear the leather off volleyballs and eat what is inside.

The top fives this week are:
Softball
1. Slack
2. McFleet
3. Su Madre
4. KA
5. Four Skins

Volleyball
1. Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony
2. Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony
3. Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony
4. Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony
5. Bad Bernard and the Lost Colony

Later, P.S. Don't let strange things grow between your toes. Also, don’t miss the Annual Davidson Football Spring Scrimmage at
Richardson Field, Friday at 3:00 p.m. Omega Phi Phi.

Ski Club promotes Davidson waterskiing; wants to compete on intercollegiate level

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

The basketball team wants to be a top twenty contender, but that seems a bit far in the future. David
Smith thinks that there is the possibility for a top twenty team at Davidson right now. There is a problem
though; Davidson does not have an intercollegiate ski team.

“We have the potential, with work and with practice, to be a competitor on the college level,” Smith said. The
College doesn’t have a team yet, but there is one in the making. For right now, Davidson's ski enthusiasts will
have to settle for the Club Ski Team.

The purpose of the club is to promote the improvement of waterskiing. The club has done much towards improving the
college’s ski equipment, according to Smith, who is the president. The club has seen to the improvement of the quality
of the skis and was instrumental in acquiring a boat at the lake campus. The guys in the club are
serving as ski instructors in the waterskiing course being offered this term by the PE department.

Smith feels that the lake campus is one of the best places in the state for a ski course. Until
now there have not been sufficient facilities for a ski team to host an event. This year, however, a portable
ski course has been ordered from a company in Washington. When this system of buoys is installed, Davidson will then
be capable of hosting intercollegiate ski meets. The only thing missing will be a jump.

The Ski Club is not content to be merely a recreational organization to promote waterskiing among the students and faculty.
There are plans in the making for some competition. The Club has tentative plans for an invitational meet the first
weekend in May. Teams from N.C. State, Clemson, South Carolina, Pembroke, and the Charlotte Ski Club will be invited.

An intramural tourney is planned for the second weekend of next month. The event will be open for anyone who
wishes to participate. There will be two divisions set up according to people’s skiing skills. A set of rules will
be made for a novice division to accommodate those folks who couldn’t manage in the advanced division.

Anyone wishing to get away from the grind of the books should head out to the lake one weekend and
take advantage of the waterskiing activities that the Davidson Ski Club promotes.

EASTER is Dress-up time.

Come see our campus Dress-up wear:

Blazers and Suits by Botany 500 Palm Beach

Slacks

All your favorite fabrics and colors

Shoes

See our Great Selections

Store Hours: 9 a.m. till 5:30 p.m. Monday thru Saturday, except for Tuesday afternoons.

[John Meck & Son]

DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE

Women’s Wear, too!
