Dogs

Bill Peeples

Davidson is one of few American colleges that boasts almost as many dogs as students, and each year, when a
fresh crop of freshmen hits town, litters from the summer abound everywhere. Before long, the physical plant will have to
install more fire hydrants to accommodate the male members of the species. Observant students will note that the trees replaced
at the end of last year’s ice storm were not a result of the weather, which was merely a good
excuse. Face it, Davidson loves dogs. It is a canine paradise. Even the boys at the physical plant will go
to any length to appease them. Except for the ten o’clock migration to the Post Office, the only reason the
speed limit on Main Street is 20 mph is to keep these fellas from getting creamed by careless, out-of-town motorists.

The most prolific of all Davidson dogs, now that Bogie has graduated, is Butch. Butch is a yellow dog of
questionable origin. Half the dogs on campus are his offspring, which explains why he carries more scars than Leon Spinks,
gained in battle to win his many loves. Last year Butch faced an identity crisis. International student Rory Cornish insisted
on calling him Bernard. To top it off, Rory fed him food from ARA Slater, and as the year progressed,
Butch became increasingly slimmer, until his ribs poked through his once muscular frame. Butch spent the summer roaming Virginia apple
orchards, where he took a correspondence course in self-analysis from Masters and Johnson. He regained his health and mind and
returned to the Carolina Piedmont. Now, on Mondays and Wednesdays, he stakes out his old haunts in front of the
laundry, where he chases everything that moves. He hates cars and loves to masticate Michelin radials, among other things. Butch
seeks out female companionship by day and Pat Sheridan by night.

Bilbo, always underfoot, treasures the comforts of life. Although he frequents Grey House, Bilbo prefers the air-conditioned comfort of the
Union snack bar, where he hides under tables to escape the watchful eye of Ron Scott. Bilbo’s current whereabouts are
unknown. The CIA had to change his identity and relocate him because the dog catcher took him to the Charlotte
pound around twenty times.

Captain Crunch is one incredible dachshund. When she is lucky, she hangs out with Butch. Most of the time, however,
she is either swiping Jeff Frank’s tennis balls or having her portrait made on the library Xerox machine.

Most folks don’t know Bucky, who is the only purebred on campus. This English Setter has yet to make Butch’s
acquaintance. Bucky lives on a farm outside Davidson, and only last week figured out how to get to the college.
He collects gargantuan ticks rather than girls and deposits them on the SAE’s carpet.

Of the many frat dogs, the KA’s Rebel is hard core. A Cocker Spaniel of sorts, the baseball team got
him drunk over spring break on a fifth of Rebel Yell. He passed out for sixteen hours, shattering the KA
record.

Fred wins the personality contest of all campus dogs and he also has the most curious features. Fred is part
Husky, Pointer, Butch, Yellow Lab, and Chihuahua. He is an outdoor enthusiast who goes white-water canoeing with Stoney Reuning, rock
climbing with Craige Murray, and to Seven-Eleven.

Women Can Contribute

Nancy Warren, Peggy Noel, Martha Sanford, Lisa Shingler, Allison Lewis

In President Samuel Spencer’s most recent “open end,” he defended the Trustee’s position of adopting a two to one sex
ratio “change.” This “change”will modify the present ratio by only 1.6 percent and allow the class of 1983 to be
comprised of 240 men and 120 women as compared to the 246 men and 120 women in the class of
1982. President Spencer’s stated objection to the equal access proposal was that traditionally women have contributed less to their alma
maters than have male alumni. We feel that this line of reasoning, held by President Spencer and many of the
Trustees, entails grave ethical implications. Is the major consideration for admission at Davidson based on the candidate’s potential for future
financial contribution? This stipulation is not mentioned as a requirement in the catalogue and would in fact seem to be
in conflict with the primary goal of the college’s statement of purpose which is “to develop persons of humane instincts,
of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.” If
this financial consideration is of prime importance in considering candidates for admission, then Davidson should de-emphasize its preministerial program's traditional
emphasis on service-related attitudes and occupations. Since ministers and others who give of themselves in quantitatively intangible ways are often
not monetarily compensated generously for their contributions, they are unable to contribute large sums to the college. If the college
is enrolling students with the aim of later obtaining financial support from them, it should stress training students for careers
in high-paying fields. Minorities, likewise, should be denied entrance based on the fact that their financial success is often impeded
in our society and consequently their financial contribution to the college would not be as great as whites. Why are
women alone singled out as being a financial liability and not other groups who have traditionally been small benefactors? It
is a fact that in the past women have been less likely to contribute to their alma maters and there
are several explanations for their traditionally low contributions. First, the traditional role of women has not included active employment outside
the home which has been a definite magnanimity. Secondly, in the traditional family of female housewife and male breadwinner, the
man is most often in charge of financial contributions and any money budgeted for such purposes would most likely be
allotted to his alma mater. However, in recent years this traditional model has been changing and sex roles seem likely
to expand even more in the future. In light of this changing trend, more and more lucrative careers are becoming
open to women. With this situation in mind, we see increasing the number of women alumni as a financial resource
to Davidson rather than an economic drawback. Denying women admittance to academically challenging schools such as Davidson will only perpetuate
this vicious cycle of economic dependence. Sex discrimination now will only result in further financial discrepancies such as seen in
a recent study of women alumnae. These women stated that because they felt discriminated against while in school on the
basis of their sex, they did not contribute financially to their alma maters. Further, the past record of Davidson women
is one of continuing high achievement in both graduate school and the job market. Other colleges of and above Davidson's
academic standing have adopted an equal access admissions policy and do not look on the equal admission of women as
a disadvantage. It is surprising that Davidson should. The authors are members of the Davidson chapter of the National Organization
of Women.
