THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume CXVIII, Number 18
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, March 23, 1979

This is the tentative design for the new Commons. See Story page 3.

3 employees reprimanded by Grover Meetze
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Director of the Physical Plant Grover Meetze issued a reprimand to College employees Bill Rolland, Ruben McIntosh, and David Alexander on January 26, 1979, stating that “evidence leaves no question that on numerous occasions the normal flow of work by other employees has been interrupted to the extent they have left their work area because of loud complaining, criticism of the supervisor and operational policies of the Physical Plant Department.” The three men were subsequently transferred from jobs in which they were very skilled to less demanding jobs.

The reprimand was issued approximately two weeks after Rolland, a 1973 Davidson graduate who had been working as a mechanic in the Physical Plant, drew up a petition criticizing certain job procedures that were initiated on December 22, 1978. These changes in job procedures were that paychecks would be issued at 4 pm rather than 9 am as before. Also, that the workers as of January 1, 1979, would be required to punch their time cards at lunch break as well as at the beginning and end of the day.

The sixteen men who signed the grievance said they felt that “because of the long lines at the bank at 5 pm on Fridays and because of the distance some of them would have to travel from their workplace to the time clock, these changes in policy would cause them some significant inconvenience.” This petition was drawn up on January 11, 1979, and on January 12, Rolland was put on 30 days probation. “I was put (see Employees, page 5)

(Gregg Strader)

Faculty approves evaluation procedures ending year-long debate and revision
By BILL PEEPLES
Executive Editor

After a year and a half of grueling debate and revision, Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann’s first major task at Davidson is complete. Following a lengthy session Tuesday afternoon, the faculty overwhelmingly approved the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures. Professor of History Brown Patterson, chairman of the Professional Affairs Committee which fostered the Code, said “I am delighted.”

Many other topics were discussed at the Tuesday session, such as self-scheduled examinations, so the final decision on the Code did not receive major consideration. Asked if the issue of self-scheduled exams was more pressing and therefore caused a more hurried debate on the Code, Patterson replied, “I think so... I surely do.” “There had been so much revision and discussion among the faculty for the last year and a half that no more debate was really necessary,” Patterson revealed.

Other factors contributed to the Code’s speedy passage. Both Patterson and Zimmermann intimated that controversial sections of the Code were omitted, rendering it more palatable. Originally, drafts of the Code called for an advisory committee to evaluate the granting of tenure to a professor. This proposal received too small a majority vote to be included in the Code. Patterson believes that the PAC will not consider a tenure advisory committee until the next academic year.

“On the docket now,” but not spelled out in the Code, “is the form in which students will evaluate faculty members,” said Patterson. Though student evaluation may eventually become part of the process in determining whether a faculty member should receive tenure, Zimmermann said he feels that for the present “we want (see Faculty, page 15)

Faculty defeats Shi proposal by overwhelming majority
8 EPC recommendations still up in the air
ByJIM GARRETT
News Editor

By at least a 2 to 1 margin, faculty members defeated a proposal that would allow professors the option of administering scheduled exams, according to Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann. After nearly two hours of discussion on Tuesday afternoon, faculty members voted down History Professor David Shi’s substitute to an Educational Policy Committee proposal. Shi’s substitute, a faculty petition to establish a dual system of exams in which each professor had the option of either scheduling or not scheduling a final exam, was circulated February 2.

Shi’s argument to the faculty focused on a professor’s “academic freedom” to schedule exams “for whatever reason.” Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole, who opposed Shi’s proposal, said “faculty members are aware of an intricate connection between self-scheduling and Davidson’s Honor Code.” He observed that faculty members do not have an inalienable right to deal with suspicion of cheating by themselves when an Honor Code exists.

SGA President Bruce Brown said, “Shi’s proposal weakened the Honor Code in the short run” because students link self-scheduling with the Honor Code. Brown said he believes “student concern at Open Ends and Forums served to deflate Shi’s proposal among professors.” “Davidson students demonstrated their will,” said Maydole.

Shi said his efforts were “well worthwhile” because “students and faculty are now more aware of the many problems of self-scheduling.” He said one reason for circulating the proposal was “professors assumed the right to reaffirm self-scheduling without community input.” Faculty members will vote April 10 on the Educational Policy Committee’s recommendation to maintain self-scheduling with minor alterations.

(Editor’s Note: All eight EPC recommendations were printed on page 3 of the February 9, 1979 issue of The Davidsonian.)

English Professor Frank Bliss observed three results of Shi’s proposal. First, it increased awareness of the Honor Code and its relation to self-scheduling. Second, it magnified the importance of a final exam to a course and third, it increased awareness of the “unsettled” nature of self-scheduling in the faculty.

$452 tuition, fee hike announced
By PETER HUX
Staff Writer

Davidson students will have to dig deeper into their pockets in order to return here next year. College President Samuel Spencer announced recently that there will be a $452 increase in tuition and fees. The increase, as reported to parents in a letter from Spencer, stems from the College’s effort to keep pace with inflation and provide the cost of living increases for the faculty and staff.

Comptroller Robert Davidson said that there would be no fee increase.

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Juniors John Jackson and Andy Miller are actively seeking the presidency of the 1979-1980 Student Government Association presidency. Sophomore Richard Terry is unopposed in his bid for the vice-presidency. The president's formal duties include representing the SGA to the Trustees, Administration, and faculty; chairing weekly meetings of the Senate; implementing directives of the SGA; appointing the Senate Executive Committee; and serving as an ex officio member of several SGA committees and advisory councils.

Jackson, a junior, served as SGA Vice-President this year, and was a senator last year. He said he feels his experience this year as Vice-President would be particularly helpful if elected president. He said he does not think, however, that his presidency would be any less dynamic because he would be taking over “from the inside.” “Being Vice-President is valuable because I’ll know how to be president," Jackson said.

(see SGA, page 15)
(see Tuition, page 15)