Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The town's revenue by showing an increase in population. When released results, the population is 3070. Although this is 50 people more than the 1970 census figures, it falls short of the anticipated increase of two to three hundred residents. Bill Brannon, the official who administered the census, termed the results “a disappointment.” But he quickly added that the new census figures will result in about $1,000 extra for the town during the next fiscal year. Brannon pronounced the census “definitely worth the cost.” Mike Cooper, Jim Crane, John Parkerson, Ed Lindsay, Lindsey Robertson, and Dave Webb were each paid a $50 honorarium for their work as enumerators. “We didn’t know we were getting paid until after we finished,” said one of the volunteers. The payment amounted to about forty cents per house.

Each student volunteer was trained as an enumerator during a group session with a state demographer. Then the enumerators were assigned one of six districts. Every household in town was visited by an enumerator who asked standard questions concerning the number of residents. Robertson said he volunteered to work on the project because he has an interest in genealogy. “I’ve been reading census reports for four years now and never knew what it was like, or what census takers went through, or why they spelled so many of my relatives' names wrong.” Webb, who also volunteered to participate because of an interest in genealogy, encountered some “passive resistance” in some of the homes he visited. “People were really friendly at first but after the second or third question they kind of faded away. One lady started looking at a magazine, another kept looking at the clock.” Webb reports one man said that he’d “never had any association with the census before.”

Talking Heads offers diverse style
By JIM VITHA
Staff Correspondent

People who enjoy contemporary music in the style of Roxy Music, The Cars, David Bowie, or Blondie ought to listen to the Talking Heads’ most recent album, More Songs About Buildings and Food. The Talking Heads’ music is new, innovative, and definitely played in a style requiring one's utmost attention. This album has received much critical acclaim and one can see why it has. Rock critics love new and different music and the Talking Heads fit the mold.

The front and back covers of the album require as much attention as the music itself. The photo compositions are similar to the form of the music itself. The most stylistic and innovative of the group is the lead singer and guitar player David Byrne. Byrne plays with vocal techniques just as Andy Warhol plays with artistic images. He is a cross between David Bowie, Bryan Ferry of Roxy Music, and a fifteen-year-old boy. Chris Frantz plays drums and experiments with different rhythms and percussive techniques. The keyboard work of Jerry Harrison ranges from a piano to organs and synthesizers, all dealt with from an eclectic point of view. The weakest member of the group is the bass player, Tina Weymouth. While the idea of a female bass player is fine, Weymouth really does not carry her load of the rhythm work. As it stands now, the Talking Heads’ sound is treble-oriented with the drums and synthesizer.

The person who most likely influences this album, outside of members of the group, is the producer, Brian Eno. In addition to producing, Eno sings and works with a synthesizer, a guitar, and percussion as well. As one can tell, he plays a part in much of the album's sound.what happens on this album. Eno is considered one of the foremost leaders in avant-garde rock music today. He experiments with everything from the energy of punk rock to the strange images of David Bowie and Iggy Pop. His influence undoubtedly accounts for much of the Talking Heads’ diverse style. The Talking Heads are neither punk rock in the mold of the Ramones, progressive rock in the mold of Pink Floyd, nor the style of rock and roll followed by Nick Lowe and Dave Edmunds. Two of the more interesting songs on the album are “The Girls Want to be With the Girls” and “The Big Country.” Byrne’s vocals are superb on the former, screeching and howling in an intense manner. On the latter, the song takes the listener on a tour of the United States, from the cities to the farmland and to the shoreline. However, the most fascinating song on the album is a remake of an old Al Green song “Take Me to the River.” It is a very powerful song with good lyrics, interesting rhythm techniques, and forceful chordal work. If a listener is unable to enjoy futuristic and different music, stay away from the Talking Heads. However, for an interested listener, the Talking Heads’ More Songs About Buildings and Food could be very helpful and worth listening to.

“The best part was a group of guys playing basketball who filled me in on half a block. Another time one man helped me with six houses. He just kept calling his neighbors and asking my questions.” Lindsay’s only problems were with “little old ladies who really wanted me to stay and talk. Some were women who were desperate to see my files to know all the gossip.”

Mayor Nancy MacCorman called on the North Carolina Fellows program when she originally realized that taking the census was “a limited, one-shot deal where students could perform a real service.” Five of the six enumerators were N.C. Fellows.

Unfortunately, you're missing a lot of news. We print investigations, analyses, and opinions of program and policy. (The Update assumes that Davidson is perfect.) We probe a little bit deeper and point out the problems (so it will be perfect by the time you're alumni).

If You Didn't Read It In The Davidson Update, It Didn’t Happen.

If we students at The Davidsonian believed that, we wouldn't be publishing weekly. But we are. These are a few of the things we do differently: We follow the Wildcats: (The Update only lets you know when they win.) Propaganda is not our policy. We don't try to sell you Davidson ties, blazers, or rocking chairs—(Just subscriptions.) Which is the point of all this. We want you to keep renewal sleep the 6: Subscription the davidsonian Davidson, N.C. 28036

Name Class of Name Class of Mailing Address Mailing Address City State Zip City State Zip