12—The Davidsonian—February 16, 1979

Supreme Court clarifies N.C. student voter registration

Voter registration for college students in North Carolina may have been cleared somewhat in a state Supreme Court decision last
Monday. The court overturned an order by Wake County Superior Court that had purged 2,000 UNC student names from the
Orange County registration records and had required Orange County election officials to administer questionnaires regarding residency to students wishing to
register to vote.

The problem arose in February 1978 when a suit filed by the Orange Committee, a conservative political action group from
northern Orange County, had charged the Orange County Board of Elections with allowing students who were not residents of the
county to vote. Some 6,500 Chapel Hill students are registered to vote in Orange County. Superior Court Judge James H.
Bailey then handed down the order in March, which the Supreme Court recently reversed. The suit has now returned to
Superior Court and is pending there.

Previous criterion for student voters was established in 1972 in the State Supreme Court ruling in the Hall vs. Wake
County Board of Elections case. It stated that a student who leaves his home to attend college is not legally
domiciled in the place the college is located. This, however, could be rebutted. The new opinion is broader in that
it rules a student can be considered a local resident if “he has abandoned his prior home, has a present
intention of making the college town his home and intends to remain in the college town at least as long
as he is a student there or until he acquires a new domicile.”

Making it easier for students to register to vote might have large implications. In Davidson, for example, approximately one-half of
the town’s population is students, enough to affect the outcome of an election. Even before the court’s decision regarding Chapel
Hill students, few Davidson students attempted to register and vote in local elections. This, according to Mayor Nancy McCormac, was
not out of any question concerning discouragement by the town or county officials. Any student that felt Davidson was his
home and wanted the responsibility of voting could have registered. McCormac commented that the town and the college had always
had reasonable communication and she saw the decision as one that would have little effect on the community itself.

U.C.-Berkeley sued over registration

BERKELEY, CA (CPS) — Heather Clendenin, a senior here enrolled at Berkeley with the intent of majoring in psycho-biology. But
when, four years ago, she tried to take a prerequisite introductory psychology course, she couldn’t. After trying three times, and
failing to get into the course, she was at the end of her sophomore year, and had to declare her
major. Unable to take her chosen major, she had to find an alternative. Catherine Geraty had the same problem with
the same psych class. Now she’s a senior social welfare major.

The problem is common at Berkeley, and now a group of students and professors are preparing to sue the university
in retaliation. Journalism professor Joseph Lyford has called for a class action suit against the school because “students feel cheated
out of taking classes they really want to take.” As Lyford told the Daily Californian, “The problem is there’s not
enough help. The university is taking money under false pretenses.” The Student Information Service estimates that ten percent of all
the class withdrawal notices it processes “list specifically the problem of not gettinginto classes.” The university, for the moment, is
not concerned. “People are threatening to sue us all the time,” noted Roderick Park, dean of the College of Letters
and Science. “That threat comes at least once a week... If students are able to get out of here... and
declare a major, I’m not terribly concerned if they’re delayed a quarter. I think the financial cost of making sure
everybody can do everything would not be worth the difficulty.”

we’re open: THIS COUPON ENTITLES YOU TO A FREE DRAFT BEER! at DISCO 115 no cover charges 11:00am - 1:00am
Monday - Saturday located on highway 115 3 miles south of Cornelius before Huntersville

The Back Page On Campus

Thursday, February 15
STEP Program, 900 Room.
French Film “Misanthrope”
Love Drama Workshop III, Hodson Hall
Bridge Free-For-All, balcony of 900 Room
6:30
7:00
7:00 “Apollo of Bellac”
“Hello Out There” Tickets $1.00
7:30
7:30 Psychology Club, Dr. Cheryl Logan, Eu Hall.
8:30-10:00 Happy Hour, ten cents a beer, Peregrine House

Friday, February 16
7:00 Drama Workshop III
8:00 & 10:30 “High Anxiety”, Love Auditorium.
9:30 & 11:00 John Stanfield, 900 Room.

Saturday, February 17
6:00 Chinese Dinner, tickets $2.50, 900 Room.
Italy Nite; Rusk House—all proceeds go to charity. Lasagna and bread, $1.75; salad bar, $1.00; dessert, .40; free glass of
beer with meal.
9:30 & 11:00 John Stanfield, 900 Room.

Sunday, February 18
4:00 Organ Recital, Jane Cain, DCPC
7:30 Tryouts for “Guys and Dolls”, Hodson Hall.
8:00 Davidson Christian Fellowship, 900 Room.

Monday, February 19
2:30 Tryouts for “Guys and Dolls”, Hodson Hall.

Tuesday, February 20
12:30 CROP Meal, 900 Room.
7:00 Worship Service, DCPC
7:30 Tryouts for “Guys and Dolls”, Hodson Hall.

Wednesday, February 21
8:15 Artist Series: Ballet Repertory Company, Love.

Sports

Friday, February 16
Swimming: Southern Conference Championships, Furman.
Wrestling: Hampton-Sydney, away.
6:30, Women's Basketball: Greensboro College, Johnston Gym.

Saturday, February 17
Wrestling: Lynchburg, away.
Rifle: Southern Conference.
2:30 Basketball: University of South Carolina, away.

Monday, February 19
7:30, Basketball: UNCC, Charlotte Coliseum.

John Stanfield
By LINDA HOOPES
Staff Writer

It's not easy making a living playing music—many aspiring guitar-playing singers come and go every year, but few can survive
solely on their musical earnings. Not surprisingly, one of the recent successes in the musical field is a Davidson graduate.
John Stanfield, ’76, has been playing guitar for quite a while. He performed here at Davidson as a student, and
was so popular here that he was asked to play at other campuses and even at some small clubs in
Charlotte.

The story of how he did it is, as C. Shaw Smith describes it, one of “talent, determination, and willingness.”
After graduation, Stanfield, at his own expense, printed a small brochure introducing himself and sent copies to club owners and
other prospective employers up and down the coast. He then called or wrote all who answered him, saying he'd be
in the area and could he stop by for a minute. Once he got there, he asked for a chance
to play. “You don’t have to hire me,” he would say, “just give me five minutes.” More often than not,
according to Smith, he was hired. He has played the East Coast from New England to Florida, often being asked
to play return engagements (the sure sign of a good musician).

He has an album out, with the prospect of another soon. He will be playing his 12-string and 6-string guitars,
along with a few other instruments in the 900 Room this weekend. There will be two performances on Friday, and
two on Saturday. Don’t miss him!
