Press Association (CSPA) ranked The Davidsonian in the "First Place" category and awarded the newspaper a "medalist certificate"—the highest distinction—in the 55th annual CSPA Newspaper Contest at Columbia University in New York City. And the Associated Collegiate Press (ACP) granted The Davidsonian the rating of "First Class—very good to excellent" in the ACP Critical Service. ACP is based at the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.

CSPA evaluated content/coverage, writing/editing, and design/display in the Davidsonians published during 1978, and gave the newspaper 953 points out of a possible 1000. "The staff has done some exciting design work and experimented with what's at hand to create a personality for the publication, making it unique among college weeklies," a CSPA judge wrote. "We compliment the staff on their job well-done and encourage them to continue to work as a team to experiment, to report, to inform, and to entertain its readership. The publication is a delight to read and view," the judge added.

The ACP evaluated the newspapers published from September to December of 1978 and gave 3980 points out of a possible 4500. ACP also awarded the newspaper the "Mark of Distinction" in the coverage and content category. "The Davidsonian publishes a lot of pertinent and interesting information... you cover a lot of news areas—good work," noted the ACP judge.

Both organizations offered suggestions for improvement: CSPA said the quality of photography should be upgraded and asked the sports staff "to stress the events yet to happen over the events long past." ACP said the newspaper needs more "staff-prepared, crisp, punchy edits and meaningful, vital, opinion columns."

1978 Davidsonian editor Phil Duncan said, "The high rankings are a credit to those who sacrificed study and sleep to put the newspaper together each week. I hope these evaluations will encourage the staff to keep improving the quality of The Davidsonian."

Massachusetts governor fears pie in the eye

MADISON, WI (CPS)—Two weeks ago Massachusetts Governor Edward King cancelled a visit to the University of Massachusetts-Amherst out of fear of being pied by students there. Wisconsin Governor Lee Dreyfus, though, was not so lucky. He was pied by a reporter at the University of Wisconsin on April 9. Dreyfus knew the pie was coming as part of a charity auction held in conjunction with the Wisconsin Student Association’s annual "Event." Reporter Stuart Levitan paid $70 for the honor of throwing a pie into the governor’s face. Dreyfus, however, was not prepared for the post-pie anti-nuclear power demonstration by students. Demonstrators threw mud and eggs at the governor, who had to be accompanied by security.

The Davidsonian receives two awards

Duncan said, "The high rankings are a credit to those who sacrificed study and sleep to put the newspaper together each week. I hope these evaluations will encourage the staff to keep improving the quality of The Davidsonian."

Bob Hope Says: "Red Cross can teach you first aid, and first aid can be a life saver."

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date.The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C. Just minutes north of Davidson, we serve a wide variety of foods: unique and tasty sandwiches, savory steaks, salads, and much more. Everything is prepared quickly and served fresh.

SGA Announcement

Every Spring Term the SGA Senate makes its appointments to the administration and faculty councils and committees. The selections will take place in three groups. The deadline for the final group is Tuesday, May 1 at 5:00 P.M. This group consists of five advisory councils: Counselling and Guidance; Finance, Personnel and Development; Intercollegiate Athletics; Library; and Bookstore.

If you are interested in serving on one of these committees, please contact Jeff Stidham (-6957), John Jackson (-6322), or Richard Terry (-6469) or sign up on the door of the SGA office. You will be interviewed by a screening committee and nominees will be chosen and presented to the Senate.

Committee on Counselling and Guidance: This committee serves to advise and assist the Dean of Students and the Director of Student Counselling in regard to programs of advising freshmen, academic counselling, clinical counselling, and vocational counselling. Where appropriate, it will make recommendations to the Vice-President of Academic Affairs concerning the college’s responsibilities in these areas. Two students will be appointed.

Finance, Personnel and Development: The council advises the President and his delegated administrative officers in this area of responsibility. The council meets at least three times a year with the President or his delegates to receive reports and offer advice. (For more information, see Article IV, Sec. 2, College Constitution). Three students will be appointed.

Intercollegiate Athletics: The council advises the President on matters coming under its jurisdiction. It meets at least three times each academic year in the Fall, Winter, and Spring at times set by the President, or upon written request of three council members to the President. The council meets with the President or his delegated proxy to receive reports, and to advise with respect to ongoing operations, programs, problems, and plans under consideration in this area. (Consult Article VII, Sec. 2, Davidson College Constitution for further information). Three students will be appointed.

Library: The Committee on the Library advises the President on policies of operations and development of the Library and makes recommendations for improvement. In accordance with the College Constitution, the Committee allots funds to departments. One student is to be appointed.

Bookstore: Members of this committee meet with the Director of the Bookstore once a year to discuss operations and policies. One student is to be appointed.

Phone: 892-8686

Try a different and delicious approach to eating today. The Buttery and Beanery on Highway 115, north of Davidson, near Mt. Mourne.