Knox Douglas, Lisa Harbottle, and Jean Soracco share a triple on third Cannon. Gregg Strader, Barnard, and Bingaman win prized Watson Fellowships.

By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Writer

Seniors David Barnard and Laurie Bingaman recently won prestigious Watson Fellowships. Each award provides $8,000 for a year of independent study abroad in a program of the student’s own design. Barnard and Bingaman were among 70 Fellows chosen March 15 out of candidates from fifty liberal arts colleges throughout the United States. The purpose of the Fellowships is to provide the winners with an opportunity, through independent study, to explore their own abilities and interests and develop a more international perspective toward world problems. Rather than stressing academic performance in its selection process, the Watson Foundation emphasizes character, ability to realize goals, and potential to excel in a chosen career. Probably the most important consideration is the candidate’s study proposal, a plan that is expected to be creative, workable, and consistent with the candidate’s past interests and accomplishments. Watson Fellows work completely independently, without any university supervision.

Barnard plans to use his fellowship to study model land reforms made in Taiwan in the late 1940s and then analyze the feasibility of implementing similar reforms in present-day Pakistan. He will spend the first four months of his year abroad in Taiwan, the first two of which will be devoted to an intensive study of Chinese. Barnard will then spend the following eight months in Pakistan, and he is presently preparing for his stay there by taking a second term of Urdu, the language of Pakistan. He explained his studies by saying that a crucial problem in Third World nations is the relationship between landowners and impoverished tenant farmers, who are both economically and socially oppressed. An economics major, Barnard has an interest in both Pakistani and socio-economic problems. He hopes to publish a recommendation based on his study and mentions a Pakistani economic journal as a possible forum.

Bingaman, a biology major, plans to make a tour of major zoos in Britain, Germany, and possibly Africa, with the purpose of comparing their strengths and weaknesses. She plans to examine four aspects of zoo operation during her studies: the education of the public about wildlife, the conservation of endangered species, the research of animal habitat and behavior, and the display of animals in a manner both conducive to their well-being and appealing and informative to observers. Bingaman says she fears that conservation efforts might fail to save many species from encroaching humans. “The most important function of a modern zoo is breeding (endangered species) simply because animals can no longer make it on their own in the wild,” she said. Bingaman has had jobs working with animals for the past several years, the most recent of which entailed training elephants at the St. Louis Zoo. She plans to make a career of working in zoos and hopes that her study will give her a more detailed knowledge of how to manage a zoo.

Philosophy Professor Lance Stell, Chairman of the Faculty Committee on Graduate Fellowships, describes Barnard and Bingaman as extremely “self-directed and single-minded with a sincere interest in humanity.” Dean of Students Will Terry, Davidson's liaison with the Watson Foundation, notes their “initiative, drive, and enthusiasm.” Terry has been pleased with the success Davidson students have had in winning Watson Fellowships; for the second year in a row, two of the Fellowships have been awarded to Davidson students. However, Stell points out that there were only twelve seniors who submitted proposals for the Watson, and both he and Terry feel that there is a lack of knowledge and a lack of interest in postgraduate fellowships at Davidson.

March 23, 1979—The Davidsonian—3

Residence hall changes to be enacted; Belk, Richardson will house freshmen

By SULTS CFP UR, Staff Writer

Basement, first, second, and third Belk will be converted to all-male freshmen halls for next year’s incoming class, according to Housing Director Scotty Nicholls. Freshmen women will be housed next year in Richardson, traditionally a freshman male dorm. The changes, said Nicholls, are the result of the admission of a freshmen class of 390 students—the largest in Davidson’s history. Admissions Director H. Edmunds White explained that next year’s freshman class will be large because the sophomore, junior, and senior classes have diminished in size.Size. The increased number of freshmen will maintain the size of the student body at its current level of approximately 1300. Nicholls commented, “I’ve had to change where freshmen are assigned periodically since we went coed... Until we have a stable enrollment you’re not going to be able to put labels on the buildings.” The placing of freshmen men in Belk next year will necessitate a change in the freshman hall system. Each hall in Belk will be divided into three sections, with six hall counselors on each floor. Belk basement will have only two sections and four hall counselors. Nicholls says she thinks the system of freshman halls in Belk “can work... it works at other schools.” She added that next year’s hall counselors have a “positive attitude” and are

By JOANNA HUNT
Staff Writer

The College Trustees tentatively approved the building site and the design concept for the campus Commons in their last meeting on February 22. The Commons will be a large eating facility to serve Freshmen and Independents. The tentative plan would put the Commons between the present locations of Richards and Bailey houses. Richards and Bailey would be moved to other locations on Patterson Court. However, Director of Physical Plant Grover Meetze stressed that these plans are not final. One reason the plan is tentative is to allow for the expression of community opinion. Another delaying factor is what Meetze termed the “economic situation.” Although the site lacks complete approval, there is no alternative location for the Commons under consideration at this time. Meetze feels that this location is the best one. He declared that “the whole administration has approved the plan. We did not consider it casually.”

Once the surveying is completed, more cost factors will be known about the construction. Figures are just now being pulled together. Meetze hopes that by April 1 the College will have a better idea of the cost of the entire project.

With the changes in freshman housing, there will be changes in housing for upperclassmen. Upperclass men will be housed in Watts and on fourth Belk, as well as in Duke, Sentelle, and on first and second Little. Upperclass women will be in Cannon, on third and fourth Little, and in five rooms on Basement Richardson. Another change in upperclass housing will be the addition of “international halls” on second and third Little. These halls will be occupied by foreign students as well as some Davidson students. Another innovation planned for next year is the addition of triples for upperclassmen in Cannon, Watts, and on fourth Belk. They will be offered at a reduced rate if students want them. If the triples are not taken, those rooms will be offered as doubles. Nicholls said few students have already shown interest in rooming in triples next year. One result of the changes in housing is that kitchens in Belk will be on all-male halls. Since the kitchens are used by women more often than men, Nicholls said it may be possible to have one kitchen in basement Cannon next year. Another consequence of the new system is that Little will be the sole coed dorm on campus. When asked about this change, Nicholls said it would be no problem to make both Cannon and Sentelle coed if students express an interest in having more coed dorms.

Trustees tentatively approve Commons

Construction of the Commons at the proposed site will mean relocating Richards and Bailey on Patterson Court. R. B. Pharr Surveyors have been surveying the area “off and on for several weeks,” according to Meetze. The most likely plan is to put Bailey between F&M and ETC, and Richards between Rusk and PAX. These locations pose problems, though. Land renovation will be necessary, and power lines will have to be moved. In looking at the campus for possible sites for the Commons and Richards and Bailey, Robert E. Marvin and Associates studied the land and considered many factors. The following criteria were used in determining the best locations: 1. the accessibility from the academic and dormitory areas; 2. service access; 3. the relationship to other dining areas; 4. economic and cost factors; 5. the relationship of the facilities to the campus atmosphere; 6. physical location; and 7. the relationship to future planning.

If the proposed plan is approved, the Commons should be completed by August of 1980. Richards and Bailey will have to be moved to their new locations.