Senate Committed to Faculty Evaluation
John Jackson

On November 6, the faculty voted on the use of the ICES faculty evaluation form, which the Professional Affairs Committee
had recommended for campus-wide use on a two-year trial basis. The vote went against the PAC recommendation, however, and made
the use of this form voluntary for the fall term and discontinued its use thereafter. This action leaves Davidson without
any form of systematic student evaluation of the faculty. The SGA Senate has expressed disappointment, confusion, and anger at this
decision.

I consider this decision to be a bad one for our college. I think college students have a right to
a role in faculty evaluation. Considering the emphasis placed on teaching in Davidson’s evaluation, it seems that the importance of
student opinion is even more apparent. I also feel that a uniform faculty evaluation program would help solve some problems
that came up in tenure decisions last spring. The results of such an evaluation could be used as feedback for
the professor after each term and could be used by both the professor and the administration on tenure decisions as
evidence of the professor’s teaching ability as evaluated by those he taught.

For these reasons, I think that Davidson must have a systematic, quantitative, mandatory evaluation process to ensure that student opinion
is accurately registered and known to the administration. I believe that many faculty members agree with the ideas I have
expressed. I was very encouraged to hear that around sixty professors used the ICES form last term. I have told
the faculty that it has the services of the SGA Senate at its disposal in the attempt to find some
satisfactory form of evaluation by the end of this winter. The Senate is committed to the concept of evaluation and
dedicated to its use. We are willing to assume whatever responsibility necessary to ensure that a satisfactory evaluation form is
used at the end of this term. I know that much will be lost if the Senate has to undertake
this project alone, and I sincerely hope that this will not be the case. We are, however, upset at the
current situation and want to do everything possible to rectify it.

John Jackson, ‘80, is the president of the SGA.

Dancing in the Commons
Bill Peeples

The Commons is coming, the Commons is coming! It may come later than expected, but there is far more at
stake than the completion of this new dining facility. The new Commons must serve two major purposes, one of which
is subordinate to the other. The Commons will solve the primary problem of feeding future freshmen and independent upperclassmen with
a seating capacity exceeding five hundred. The secondary purpose, however, has not been resolved. This issue is a matter of
feet and inches.

The Commons is supposed to be a panacea for campus-wide dances, but certain architectural and engineering plans will render this
objective inadequate. First of all, the planned parquet dance floor will be four to five hundred square feet less than
the total dance area in Chambers Gallery. The balance of the floor space in the new building will be carpeted.
As a result of this combination of floor covering, campus-wide dances will be similar to 900 Room discos, where roughly
two-thirds of the participants are driven from the wooden floor to the carpet. Additional parquet flooring should be included in
plans for the Commons.

Current plans call for huge light fixtures. These lights will be suspended from the two-story ceiling to within eight feet
of the floor of the dining area. Any band playing in this area will be extremely small. There must be
a wall. The wall divides the dining facility in half, leaving a passageway between the end of the wall and
the rear of the building. (Refer to drawing below.) Changes made in the plans this week will render the wall
either twenty or twenty-nine feet in length (distance A below). If the wall is twenty feet long, the passageway will
be twenty-nine feet; if the wall extends twenty-nine feet, the opening will be a mere twenty feet (distance B below).
This opening is the only spot in the Commons where a band can play to both sides of the dining
facility. Unfortunately, a bandstand erected in this area will be extremely small.with a sophisticated light show will have to painstakingly
maneuver around these obstructions. The most disturbing oversight in the plans is a tray retrieval system set in a room
for people to pass in front of the band to go from one side of the room to the other.
To make matters worse, there must be adequate access to the stairs and restrooms behind the bandstand. Imagine all this
activity in an opening of only twenty-nine feet, let alone twenty feet. And whom will a band face? Will a
band address one side of the room one minute and the other the next? If a band behaves as usual,
it will face straight forward. Just think of a band cranking out a Jackson Browne tune into the tray recovery
system! Unless the retrieval system is shortened further, the Commons will serve no better as a central dance facility than
Chambers Gallery or Johnston Gym.

Bill Peeples is the Executive Editor of The Davidsonian. The lithograph is by Ralph Lasley.

In Praise of Winter Term
Rick Johnston

Winter term is the greatest. Though most of my peers would hardly agree, I think it is the best of
our three terms here at Davidson. One reason I praise winter term is that I have never expected anything good
out of our middle trimester. I got the word my first day at Davidson: “You will hate winter term. The
weather is terrible, everyone takes their hardest courses, and there are no good social events. Spring term is the best.”
I have never found spring term to be so fantastic. I will admit spring frolics is great, but much of
the term is wasted waiting for the warm weather. When warm temperatures finally arrive, many students are unable to enjoy
them because they are so far behind in their studies.

Winter term seems to pass by quickly, primarily because there is a three-week vacation in the middle. We have a
week for Thanksgiving, and then only three weeks later we are back home for Christmas. After that three-week vacation, seven
weeks, not ten, lie between us and our next week of freedom. Last spring roughly one-third of the students failed
to get three courses. Since everyone desired easy classes spring term, they filled up quickly, forcing many students to pick
up courses they didn’t want. Normally, the best opportunity for getting all requested courses is in winter term. (Three weeks
ago, a sophomore actually picked up a T-bird course during drop-add, a feat most experts said could never be done).

Basketball adds to the superiority of winter term. It is most popular at Davidson, both as a participant and a
spectator sport. Unlike flickerball, freshman halls have a chance to win against the mighty fraternities. Unlike football, Davidson can beat
some schools in the almighty A.C.C. Winter term has improved tremendously over the past few years because of increased snowfall.
There is nothing like traying on the soccer field. For freshmen unfamiliar with the sport, the only equipment needed is
a stolen tray from A.R.A. Slater. Traying can become so addictive it may not end until something breaks, whether it
be your tray or one of your bones. The snow obviously facilitates the sport of snowball fighting, which Davidson students
can appreciate because of its complex strategy and athletic skill. The first snowball fight is usually the most enjoyable, because
everybody goes after freshmen from Florida who have never seen snow before. Before they can figure out what the white
stuff consists of, they are bombarded with snowballs.

The newest form of art at Davidson College is the snow sculpture. Many aspiring young artists have made some beautiful
works of art from snow, but only one has received enough recognition to be photographed for the scholarly publication, Quips
and Cranks. For those of us who enjoy skiing, a “blow off classes and ski day” is a must. A
day of this type is properly completed by an all-you-can-eat country-style dinner at the Daniel Boone Inn. The best thing
about a “blow off classes and ski day” is the fact that you never feel guilty about missing the classes.

Parties are great winter term. Drinking is at its finest because there is no danger of being served warm beer.
Hard-core dancers like the SAE’s appreciate the colder weather because their house usually smells like a locker room at band
out. I will get for writing this.

Rick Johnston writes a regular column for The Davidsonian.
