10—The Davidsonian—December 7, 1979

Fido, etc. tops IMAC's top 10 list

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Welcome to another week of Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. This week’s feature is a tribute to a group of
athletes that have received so little print from The Davidsonian. The team is the Florida State Seminoles. This college football
powerhouse is 11-0 and headed to the Orange Bowl. Coached by Bobby Bowden and led on offense by several Leon
High School standouts, the tribe has a passing attack that can strike faster than a pack of Muslims in front
of an American embassy. By the way, Bonehead’s from Florida.

Ron Simmons asked that B and BB mention his name. Ron is a 6'2”, 230-pound noseman from Warner Robbins, Georgia,
who can bench press 550 pounds and run the 40 in 4.4. Not at the same time, of course. Brett
Storm, a tempestuous young Jewish boy who worships Billy Sims, says the Oklahoma Sooners will be in trouble on New
Year’s Day. You are so right, Brett! In conclusion, we would like to point out that Florida State beat Oklahoma
in the 1965 Gator Bowl. There are many new faces on the present teams, but this really doesn’t matter.

Now for the B&BB Preseason Top Ten:

1. Fido and the Rearentries. This team has a disgusting name that is appropriate for their fraternity. Although the name
is bad, the team is stacked with talent. Andy MacDonald has recovered from an early bout with disease that kept
him from lettering on Coach Eddie’s team this year. Forward Danny Hock chews bubble gum and hits from the corner
while occasionally dropping shorts to the delight of the fans. At guard is senior star Locke White, a fantastic shooter
and a peripatetic passer. Susan Casper will replace graduated starter Adrian Pantley. Fido should be the best this year unless
they get too cocky. One warning to opponents: this team loves to go backdoor.

2. Cool Breeze. Last year’s champions have a name that reminds Bonehead of the last time he forgot to zip
up. The Breeze is led by laconic James “Windex” McLain who snatches rebounds with the same voraciousness as that with
which he eats children. By adding token whites Craig Finger and Jimmy Matson, it is clear that if this team
is taken hostage these two guys will be among the last released. Alvin Atkinson and Micky Dillon are the best
salt and pepper combination in the league. This team is probably grossly overrated but due to a flip of the
coin in Roth’s Med. Soc. class, the writers decided to put them here. The starting seven listed alphabetically are: J.
Riser, B. Hatcher, A. Smith, Stork, R. Hull, S. Reuning, and M. Schaeter. Ask Andy MacDonald about his brother Stork
and you will be impressed with the young freshman’s credentials. Many of these players can be seen in morning volleyball
sessions. Thank you.

4. Hurtin 4 Certin. Another strong contender that is headquartered at the Booty Palace. They are led by shooting guard
Minor Sinclair who has recently participated in a Cincinnati ritual in which the natives indulge in mass quantities of alcohol
followed by wrestling and the ceremonial giving up of the grits. New members Joe “brick ass” Ford and Sandy Donald
have been added to the roster but did not make the team photograph. Other members who might help are Richard,
Eddie, Joby, and Vince who were last seen at a rompin’, stompin’...Who concert in Cincy. This last sentence was sick,
but we included it for the mentally ill who read our column.

5. Old Men. These guys never get the ink that they deserve.

6. Brick Layers. Thought that we might be attracted to their name, but they were wrong. This should be a
great team. The only problem is that star Rand Malone roomed with Turly Howard freshman year. Turly’s that short-haired hall
counselor on First Belk. He is a psychology major and someday hopes to be a shrink. He likes lots of
freshmen girls and a few like him. He’ll like you, too, if you like him back. Turly lettered in flickerball
this year with Longitudinal Forces. He’s a real good guy and he is not a homosexual like many of the
people in California. You can visit Turly on holidays in Memphis, Tennessee.

7. We Know We’re Pathetic. May be underrated but they haven’t proven themselves in any games yet. Hill Stockton, Ricky
Dominick, and Kevin Wheelak form the heme group of this structure. The big question rests in a player who was
recruited from the local community. His name is Derek the Janitor. Hill says, “Derek can jam.” We have scouted Derek
and know that if team members can convince him when he is hot and when he is not then they
should do OK. Better name for this team would be the ‘Peripatetics.’

8. ICEF. Name resembles the third line of the eye chart at Charlotte Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat, Arm, Leg, Foot
Hospital. A freshman team with promise. Phil Gordon got 16 rebounds on the outdoor courts Saturday afternoon.

9. True Grits. Another neophyte team. Ken Craig is from the Buckeye State which is better than being from Alabama.
A guy named Hall is a lot better than older brother Bill Barnett. Hall’s last name is Barnett, too. Neither
can talk. Their sister is beautiful but in France. Ed Whitesides reminds many observers of Wes Unseld even though he
is not big, black, or good. Hall counselor Dave Waddill will anchor the team.

10. Guns Of Navarone. With Zurbruegg, Porter, and Griffen in the lineup, the supply of basketballs may not be able
to keep up with the demand. Have a guy named Marvin Webster but he is not related to the Human
Eraser. Women’s basketball coach Palmer “Bullwinkle” Muench may get a rebound or two by Christmas. Rusty “Wop” Colechia is looking
forward to a big season but still needs to work on his English. Cora Nelson missed the first three practices
and has been axed from the lineup.

That concludes our Top Ten A-League teams. We wish that we could do a sketch of the top B-League and
Women League teams but there is not enough space. If you are on a really good B-League team please do
not come to us begging for print because you should be playing A-League. In the Women’s League the team to
watch is the Ka-o-las coached by W.H. Later.

Snoopy’s arrived at The Village Store! Big & small plush Snoopy’s with Christmas ornaments and cards & wrap. Soap, mugs,
powder, mirrors, memos, & lots more! COME SEE THE VILLAGE STORE

Todd Haynes out-maneuvers a Wofford defender. (Brad Kerr)

HAPPY HOUR
Thursday 3-5, 8:30 - 10:30
Friday 8:30 - 11:00
MOLSON ALE .60 / bottle
DRAFT PITCHER $1.40
SCHLITZ AND MILLER LITE

DELIVERY SERVICE:
SUNDAY - WEDNESDAY 9 START COLLE COU
