2 Davidsonian—March 30, 1979

By PETE HUX
Staff Writer

Only eight students attended an open forum held in Chambers Gallery Tuesday to discuss the pros and cons of switching to a semester system at Davidson. The day before, a faculty committee established to weigh the differences between the current trimester system and a possible semester system, sponsored an open forum for professors. About 35 to 40 were present.

Religion professor David Kaylor, chairman of the committee, emphasized, “The establishment of this committee is not in response to any overriding crisis.” He indicated that those faculty members present favored a move to a semester system. However, he noted it was natural for faculty members in favor of the present system to miss the meeting.

Kaylor was careful to point out that both the systems in question have attendant advantages and disadvantages. Graduation requirements stand to be affected by a possible change to semesters. Currently, 36 course credits are required for graduation, but a change to semesters would require either a decrease to 32 course credits or an increase to 40. This results from the fact that a semester system would require students to be enrolled in either four or five courses per fifteen-week semester. However, a change to a semester hour program could require students to earn a certain number of semester hours to be eligible for graduation. Kaylor mentioned, though, that there was not much faculty endorsement of this idea.

The chief argument for the semester system was that there would be more time for the curriculum to sink into the students’ heads. It was argued that the present system does not allow the “percolation effect” to occur.

7 professors up for tenure
By CATHY ANSHELES
Staff Writer

Seven professors are up for tenure in May, according to a Davidson professor. The seven are Cindy Grant, Psychology Professor John Kello, Sociology Professor Norm Koller, Political Science Professor and at least four years experience at Davidson. Tenure is awarded, according to Davidson’s Code of Faculty Evaluations, on the basis of excellence in teaching, scholarly achievement, and adherence to Davidson’s highest-end moral values. Student input is often considered but the Trustee Kaylor mentioned the greatest difficulty in dealing with the issue is the calendar. The current system is modeled around set holidays, such as Christmas and Thanksgiving.

Discussion on the issue dates back to 1973 when a subcommittee of the Educational Policy Committee was formed to study the advantages and disadvantages of a semester system. The faculty, after weighing the findings, approved a motion to continue the present system indefinitely. However, with the addition of new faculty over the last five years, the majority coming from institutions utilizing the semester system, interest in considering an alternative academic calendar has re-emerged.

The News at a Glance

Brown grant to endow professorship
By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Correspondent

The College has received a $375,000 challenge grant from the Brown Foundation of Houston to help endow a professorship. The College must match the Foundation’s grant by November 1983 to establish the Herman Brown Chair in Natural Science with an endowment of $750,000. The announcement was made through the Office of Development. The Brown Foundation is among the 30 largest philanthropic organizations in the nation. Its founders, present Foundation President George Brown and the late Herman Brown, founded the large Brown & Root Construction Company in Texas. Development officer Allan Lee said that thework of several Davidson alumni living in the Houston area was instrumental in convincing the Foundation to consider making a large endowment to Davidson, since the Foundation usually makes grants within Texas. Foundation officials and College President Samuel Spencer then met in May 1978 to discuss possible endowments. After College representatives submitted a formal proposal for use of an endowment in late September, the Foundation informed the College of its $375,000 challenge grant on November 30. The endowment was given as part of the fundraising efforts of the Davidson 1987 Program. Lee explained the importance of endowments, which become College assets providing long-term constant income: “There is no doubt that endowments will be a make or break factor for many private colleges and universities.” Though Lee emphasized that Davidson is quite sound financially, he pointed out that as prices rise, it becomes more and more difficult to count on student fees and annual alumni gifts to cover expenditures. Endowments can provide the funds to allow private colleges to keep their costs to students competitive with those of public colleges. Davidson presently has an endowment of $20 million and hopes to increase it to $39 million by 1987. Thus $19 million of the Davidson 1987 Program’s $35 million target is expected to come from endowments in general and there is a $6.5 million target specifically for faculty endowments, such as the one made by the Brown Foundation.

Clarifications
An article which began on the front page of last week’s Davidsonian on Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze’s decision to reprimand three employees left out Meetze’s statement. Asked to comment on the situation last Wednesday, Meetze said: “In answer to your question regarding the transfer and reprimand of Ruben McIntosh, Bill Rolland, and David Alexander, let me say for the record that it is not my policy to initiate the discussion of personnel matters with the press. The decision by the supervisor to transfer these employees, at the same rate of pay, has my support. The decision by a Grievance Committee appointed by President Spencer which heard impartially over 100 man-hours of testimony supported the supervisor’s decision. The facts in this matter continue to indicate to me that the decision was and still is in the best interest of Davidson College,” said Meetze.

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

10% OFF Entire Stock for Davidson Students & Faculty
This week (March 30 - April 7) bring college ID and coupon below.

LEVI'S
Men’s, Women’s, Students’
Men’s & Women’s Jeans
Boot cut
Flair leg
Prewashed: light and dark denim
Straight leg

Dress Clothing
Three Piece Vested Suits
Dress Pants
Dresses
Skirts
Swimwear

The Jean Shoppe
663-5515. 206 N. Main-Mooresville (Across from Belk’s)