Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

9, 1979

Commons Plans Take Shape

The construction plans for Davidson’s new Commons are taking shape, according to Physical Plant Director. The houses are part of a preliminary analysis for the construction of the new facility.

Construction will begin in July and is scheduled for completion in the fall of 1980.

The Commons will be the new eating facility for freshmen and sophomores.

History of self-scheduling
By DENNIS McLAWHORN

One example he cited was envelopes late. This inevitably leads to a “ragged situation,” Burts said.

One of the complaints Burts mentioned is that professors have to wait until the entire exam period is over before they can begin to grade the tests. Also, self-scheduled exams force professors to make up exams earlier than they perhaps would otherwise.

The self-scheduled exam system was introduced in the Fall of 1976. The following spring, however, the percentage dropped to a record low of 54%.

The spring of 1978 saw an increase to 65% faculty use, but last term dropped to 60%.

Rubella

Over the past week, there have been five cases of suspected rubella (other names include German measles and three-day measles), all among college students. This is a different disease from the red measles.

Symptoms of rubella initially include (see Measles, page 11).

An article on College President Samuel Spencer’s decision to come out in support of self-scheduled exams, which ran on the front page of last week’s Davidsonian, identified Spencer’s statement as “a memorandum to the faculty.” It was not.

According to Assistant to the President Cindy McDowell, it was a statement “given to the faculty.”

Clarifications

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date.

The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year.

KING OF PIZZA

Take part in Davidson tradition. Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s King of Pizza. The food maintains an excellent reputation for being fresh, warm, and of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere or the take-out order service.

Munch on a pizza from King of Pizza and see how much you enjoy it.

King of Pizza, Inc.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 663-3030

---