-April 27, 1979

Adelaide Wilcox was one of many Davidson players who won in last weekend’s women’s state tennis tournament held at Davidson.
Her teammate, Emmy Knobloch, won the number one singles contest in a grueling three-and-a-half hour match.

(Brad Kerr)

Women’s tennis team wins all but one match in near sweep of state Division II tournament held here

By BERT MOBLEY

Sports Editor
Davidson's women's tennis team was absolutely devastating last weekend, winning the N.C. Association of Athletics for Women Division II tennis
meet here in Davidson. Coach Pat Miller giggled at her understatement when she said, “They certainly played well.”

‘Well’ means winning 35 out of 36 total points while losing only one match during the entire tournament. Playing ‘well’
also earns the Lady Cats a trip to the Southeast regional tournament at Williamsburg, Va., May 9-12.

Freshman Emmy Knobloch won the number one singles title with a marathon match against Shirley Dunn, the top-seeded player of
the tourney, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3. The match was a dueling three-hour, 24-minute affair before Knobloch could put her opponent away.

But Knobloch wasn't the only one who won a final singles match; Davidson won all of the singles matches. Hope
McArn, Kirk Cameron, Adelaide Wilcox, Tanda Witherspoon, and Bunny Horine all won in the number two through number six positions,
respectively.

The team of Cameron and McArn won the number one doubles match over Kathy Neblett and Vicki Williams of High
Point. Witherspoon and Grace Morgan won the number three doubles match.

After her long outing against Dunn, Knobloch and Wilcox lost the number two doubles match against Kinta Otterman and Marie
Riley of High Point in the only Davidson loss of the weekend.

Knobloch said, “I just wanted to get off the court in that long match. I was tired in the doubles
match, but Adelaide and I just couldn't quite get it together. We had been playing well, but we couldn't hit
anything.”

Knobloch gave a lot of credit for this year’s success to Coach Miller. “I think she’s the reason I won
Saturday. She talked me through a ton of matches.”

High Point came in second in the tournament with a total of 24 points. By finishing second, High Point also
qualified for the regionals.

Miller explained that the first and second place teams in the regionals will be eligible to go to the nationals
that will be held later. Also, the first and second players in each flight will qualify for a trip to
the nationals.

The Lady Cats will face some tough opposition in Williamsburg; Furman and the College of Charleston did well in the
nationals last year.

There will be two weeks of practice in preparation for the tournament to give some rest time.

Miller feels that some of the individuals on the team may fare well, but the team as a whole “may
not be the caliber of the College of Charleston.”

But she added, “You never know—we're going to the tournament excited.”

Men’s tennis team braces for tournament

By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

The Varsity tennis team has been good to Jeff Frank this year. He is happy. Not only have they exceeded
20 match victories, but they refused to be shut out all season: That’s not bad for a “young team” during
a “growing year.”

The Wildcats wound up their regular season last Tuesday in a match against the University of Tennessee—Chattanooga. UTC, one of
the toughest teams in the South, defeated Davidson 7-2.

Harry Griffith lost to J. Keving, the defending Conference champion, in perhaps his best match of the season (6-4, 6-7,
6-3). Jay Gepfert wailed on his second singles opponent, 6-3, 6-3. Jeff Lyle and John Trout took number three doubles
in straight sets. UTC is top-seeded in the upcoming Southern Conference Tournament.

After being crushed by Furman last Tuesday, the Cats seemed to have snapped out of their dreamy state. The following
day, they shut out Marshall College 9-0 with a noticeable improvement in match play.

On Friday, Jay Gepfert led the squad to an 8-1 win over UNCC. The Cats were hungry again, but their
hunger was not quite satiated; they continued their hot streak on Saturday by squashing VMI 9-0. What more could a
coach ask for?

The Wildcats go into this week’s Conference Tournament with “not a lot of great, great seeds.” First doubles hopefuls Griffith
and Gepfert stand solid with a 5-2 record in Conference play; they may have the only good seeding. Then again,
Coach Frank feels that there is no pressure on the team—no titles to defend. They are in a “prime position
to be spoilers and upsetters.”

Who will survive and what will be left of them?

Friday, April 27

Yes, it’s finally coming

Love Auditorium
8:00 and 10:30
$1.50 or season pass.

Rifle team ends season with loss and 24-6 record

By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor
Davidson's rifle team finished an outstanding year with a disappointing effort in the Western Carolina Conference meet at Wofford last
week.

The team, whose only conference losses came at the hands of nationally ranked Appalachian, shot its lowest score of the
year by 30 points. As a result, they finished fourth, three points behind third-placed Wofford and 17 behind second-placed Clemson.
Appalachian State won the event.

Senior captain Katherine Whitney was high shooter for the team in her last college match. She shot 266 out of
a possible 300. Freshman Craig Rice shot 262 and junior Robbie Kirkendol was third on the team with 257 points.

The team finished with an impressive 24-6 record.

IZOD LACOSTE

Cotton Lisle Sportshirts

Store Hours: 9 a.m. till 5:30 p.m.
Monday thru Saturday,
except for Tuesday afternoons.

DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE
