Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Webster said he is leaving his teaching position for purely professional reasons. "I've decided that I'm interested more in clinical work."

"My training is in clinical psychology. I came to Davidson with the intention of doing clinical work. I didn't have a full appreciation of how many balls I'd have to juggle."

Webster said he found "most of his energy" went to teaching. "My first love, though, is clinical work."

This year Webster is on official leave from Davidson and is teaching a personality seminar this term. He said he is not certain whether he will be teaching spring term. Webster plans eventually to expand into full-time private practice. Until then, he will continue his present work at the Child/Youth Division of the Charlotte Mental Health Center, where he conducts evaluations and treatments with families, adolescents, and children, and does parent counseling.

Psychology Department Chairman John Kelton said the college has initiated a search for another professor.

Webster said he will probably stay in the Davidson area. "I've found the ambiance here to be very good and the people very supportive," he explained.

(Continued from page 1)
committees, on measures to maintain the vigor of the college throughout the 1980s against the impact of inflation which, in his judgment and ours, is having a seriously corrosive effect on all persons and programs—especially persons—at the college."

The AAUP Compensation Committee report maintains, "The decade now concluding offers ample proof that the college’s desire for nationally-recognized excellence in both academics and athletics cannot be met at present funding levels. It is therefore time to choose, and to realize that failure to choose will condemn both to unacceptable mediocrity."

All departments of the college will submit budget requests. The 4 largest, according to Davidson, will be the faculty, the physical plant, the athletic department, and the library.

The committee which formulates the budget proposal is made up of Spencer, Zimmer, Dean of Admissions John Griffith, Dean of Students...

The recent AAUP report emphasizes the magnitude of the inflation problem. Since 1966 all faculty salaries have dropped in constant dollars. An Instructor now makes 22% less in terms of constant dollars than in 1966, according to the AAUP report. In 1966, Davidson allocated 43.7% of its Educational/General Expenditures for faculty compensation, whereas in 1978 only 32.6% was assigned for compensation, according to the AAUP report. The Educational/General Expenditures make up approximately 70% of the total budget.

Compared with schools with which it competes for students, Davidson is behind in nearly every case in terms of compensation percentage, Kaylor said. He added that those who are behind are catching up.

NEH gives $500,000 challenge grant

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

The National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) has given Davidson a $500,000 challenge grant.

Under the grant’s terms, NEH will match every $3 the College raises before June 1983 with $1 of its own, up to the $500,000 maximum.

The grant must help fund humanities-related projects. In a college news release College President Samuel Spencer was quoted, "This significant grant, combined with the funds which we raise, will be important elements in our Davidson 1987 Program."

The program, which sets a $35 million goal in fund raising by 1987, is designed to fund construction projects as well as to endow professorships, scholarships, and library support.

Lee explained that all of the NEH money will be channeled into faculty and library funds, not into construction.

The NEH is a government agency established to sponsor scholarship in the humanities and programs which make works in the humanities available to the general public.

Elections

(Continued from page 1)
said he filed late when he was told he probably would have been appointed to the position if there were no contestants. He said he originally was waiting in case a more qualified candidate signed up to run for the job.

Impara said her experience was a major factor behind her decision to run for the Co-Curricular Committee chairmanship. She has served on the Intimate Performance Committee, which brings acts to the 900 Room.

Impara, who will direct Union-sponsored cultural and educational programs, said she is interested in improving publicity for Union events. She said inadequate publicity has often resulted in a lack of interest in several Union events.

"The lack of interest in the election of Union officers concerns me," Impara added, "and I hope to bring more interest and involvement to the activities of the Union."

Holding, McCall, and Impara will officially take office spring term. Until then, they will be trained by the current officers.

A Good Place to do your Christmas Shopping before you go home. Things for her, too! Free gift wrapping for the holidays.