Class flag tradition revived

TAINE ALISON
Assistant Features Editor

There's a new standard at Davidson—it’s flying from the flagpole! The new red and black flag represents the Class of 1979 and flies in their honor from Convocation until Commencement. A class flag is not a new idea, pointed out Dr. Richard Burts, registrar; it is a revival of a Davidson tradition from days gone by.

“It was Dr. Spencer who planted the idea—he just got me to look into it,” explained Burts. “I don’t know much about flags, but I’ve gotten a liberal education in the process.”

The process of having a flag made began with Mrs. E.N. Linker, famous in the area for her sewing skills. Mrs. Linker could not do the job herself, but referred Burts to the Conder Flag Company in Charlotte. After consulting the ROTC department for more information, Burts talked with Mr. Conder—America’s largest flag dealer.

“He’s a very interesting gentleman,” remarked Burts. “When I commented on his importance in the flag business he only chuckled and said that if he had taken stock in buggy whips, he would probably be America’s largest buggy whip dealer.”

It isn’t hard to see why Conder is such a successful businessman. He and Burts worked out the specifications of the 1979 class flag that could be flown outside as well as in indoor ceremonies. When the flag was first finished, Conder found the workmanship unsatisfactory and returned it to the manufacturer for improvement—all this at no cost to the college.

The flag was first used at Spring Convocation when the seniors wore their caps and gowns for the first time. Senior Class President Ralph Yielding bore the standard and led his classmates into the ceremony. The flag will also be carried at Commencement. This old tradition will complement the current practice of using the American flag and flags from the fifty states as a backdrop for the speaker’s platform at Commencement.

The revival of the class flag led to another idea—a college flag. The new college flag is an indoor flag complete with fringe and an embroidered seal. It will be a lasting symbol of the college to be used for years to come.

Burts said that the college would like for the idea of a class flag to catch on, and be continued, though “Not beyond a proper point.” If the rising senior class objects to the practice, it can be discontinued. The class of 1979's flag will be given to the Alumni office after Commencement for use during class reunions. “We would like the flag to become a rallying point for the Class of 1979.”

Running the SGA elections can be a lonely job, Ron Davis will tell you. (Brad Kerr)

Plott and Oratorio Singers receive extended ovations

By PATSY DANIELS

Had conductor of the Oratorio Singers, Donald Plott, received a longer standing ovation, many of us might not have made it home in time for breakfast. It is a clever practice among some of us to remain in our seats for twenty or thirty minutes after a performance, thus avoiding the deluge of traffic caused by the mass exodus. But for those who had sagely decided to be the last to leave Ovens Saturday night, there was a great sense of frustration, for the rest of the audience lingered.

The Chamber Choir, Davidson's only coed chorus, will sing madrigals and a Bach chorale on Friday

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

Davidson's three largest choral groups include dozens of students and are known throughout the South. The traditional Davidson College Male Chorus has long been known as a dynamic and professional-sounding group. The Women’s Chorus, now in its third year, is building a good reputation with its local performances and recent tour appearances. The Davidson College Chamber Choir is the youngest of these groups and the only one that includes both sexes.

NCSA students to perform May 16

Daniel McKelway, Nicolette Driehuys, Grace Chun, and Craig Richey, students at the North Carolina School of the Arts, will be performing May 16 at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Daniel, son of Mr. & Mrs. Alexander McKelway, is in the 8th grade at Alexander Junior High School and a special student of Robert Listokin at NCSA. Daniel plays the clarinet.

Nicolette, daughter of Mr. & Mrs. Leo Driehuys, is a flautist studying under Philip Dunigan.

Grace is a member of the class of ‘81 at Davidson College on leave for the school year 79-80. She is a piano student of Joseph Kalichstein at NCSA.

Craig Richey is the son of the late David Richey, former Professor of Music, and Elaine Richey formerly from Davidson. He is a piano student of Joseph Kalichstein.Choir will perform this Friday in their second public performance this year. Don Plott, Dana Professor of Music, and Mark Shelley, senior music major, have directed this year’s choir. Approximately sixteen Davidson students are involved. Candy Hawks, a junior who sang with the “parent” group, the Madrigal Singers, feels that the Chamber Choir is “necessary—it’s the only place where men and women get to sing together.” Sophomore Martha Anne Whitmore is a member for the same reason. “I enjoy singing, especially with a group,” she said. “This is my only chance to perform with a mixed group.” Freshman Bill Barrett says he “really enjoys the performing aspects of the choir.” Many of the members performed in high school choruses, so the group is able to sing sophisticated songs. Friday's performance will include several madrigals from the Renaissance period. The group will sing two Randall Thompson pieces: “Say Ye to the Righteous” and “The Paper Reeds by the Brook.” A Bach Chorale, two motets, and various other selections form the remainder of the program. The performance is at 8:15 in Cunningham. Admission is free.

As the applause continued, my friends and I finally took the initiative to make an exit. The Singers’ performance of Mozart’s Grand Mass in C Minor was superb. Carole Bogard (soprano), Brenda Boozer (mezzo-soprano), Walter Carringer (tenor), and Bruce Schoonmaker (bass), the guest soloists, were high caliber. Boozer was especially fine; said Mrs. Leo Driehuys of her, “She is one of the best I’ve heard—an excellent and intuitive musician.” Dr. James Swisher said of the concert, “Donald Plott’s direction was sensitive; he made the halls ring (which is no easy feat in Ovens), showing Plott’s understanding for the acoustics of the auditorium and his own fine sense of timing.” Members of the audience remarked that never had they heard the Singers and the orchestra perform so well. Each section of the choral ensemble had a distinct sound which blended to create a quality that perhaps exceeded the individual potential of each singer. Plott’s control of the orchestra was masterful. The combined effect of the instrumentalists was not strained or overbearing. Balance between the Singers and musicians was maintained throughout the evening, an accomplishment that is remarkable in itself, for simultaneously directing both groups is similar to being the captain of two ships. It wouldn’t be surprising for a conductor to devote too much attention to one assemblage and then find that the other has wandered off course.

It is evident that Mozart had his Mass in C Minor, but he never forgot expression. By the time the composer wrote the Grand Mass in 1783, he was following his own style. He seems less concerned with the music found in the Motu Proprio of Pope Pius X. The Catholic quality of this work lies in its appeal to the heart. During the Kyrie and parts of the Credo (when the chorus proclaimed, “I believe in one God, the Father Almighty...”), I wouldn’t have doubted the sincerity of the text even if I’d been told that I were listening to 155 atheists. The Grand Mass ended as it had begun, in the minor key. As the final note in the Agnus Dei faded out, the audience’s emotions shifted back to solemnity. In the Mass, the appeal to the heart is that of supplication. The mass begins with “Lord have mercy upon us.” It makes a full circle, ending with, “Have mercy upon us, grant us peace.” The appeal is strikingly different from the demanding tone found in Mozart’s glorious Coronation Mass, and it is an appeal which makes his Grand Mass unique.

The Oratorio Singers are not the marble choir boys of Donatello; they had their moments of weakness. In the Credo section, after the Crucifixus, the sopranos were late with the Resurrexit—a slight flaw which was explained away by Dr. Wilmer Welsh, who commented, “Easter must have been a little late the year Mozart composed the piece.” Bogard was accused of being shrill at times. However, the reason for this may be that many of us were not accustomed to hearing anyone hit a high C. When Mozart was commissioned to write a Mass, he protested, claiming that he was only made for the opera. But at the offer of 100 louis d'or for a Mass, he smiled and said that he would one day use parts of it in an opera. The multi-talented composer left his stamp of genius in the world with his choral-orchestral compositions. This genius was made manifest last Saturday night. The audience was left with a profound respect for the performers and a greater awe of Mozart. As I walked from the auditorium, I felt as Kierkegaard must have felt when he said, “Immortal Mozart...”