THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 6
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Minimum two-term suspension set
Terry, Council agree on honor sanctions
By ELIZABETH KISS
Staff Writer

Dean of Students Will Terry and the Honor Council agreed unanimously last Friday to establish a minimum sanction of two
terms for honor code violations. The decision, which Terry called a “working agreement,” means that a student convicted of an
honor code violation will be suspended for a minimum of two terms. Freshmen are not exempt from the policy.

Terry had originally proposed a one-year minimum sanction on September 16. He said negative student and faculty reaction prompted the
change from a year to two terms. One reason for the agreement is that it sets up a uniform standard
for both the Dean of Students and the Honor Council, who often handle cases separately, and thus ensures an evenhanded
policy, explained Rob McEwen, Honor Council chairman. The Review Board would still be able to reduce sentences on appeal as
it sees fit.

The agreement is also meant to clarify honor system policies to the entire student body. “We are anxious for all
students to know this,” said Terry. “It is an attempt to indicate the seriousness with which we take the honor
code—and feel the students want to take it. The move, and the publicity that accompanies it, should be fair warning
to violators as to what they can expect.”

McEwen said that the minimum sanction did not represent a stricter policy but a “restatement of the policies of the
past.” Terry agreed that the policy was not meant to make punishments for honor code violations harsher. “If the community
thinks that the policy is too severe it might hamper the influence of the honor system,” he said.

Two terms have generally been the minimum suspension for honor code violations, Terry said. “There have been times when we
haven’t suspended a student for at least two terms, and they have generally turned out to be mistakes,” he added.

The Code of Disciplinary (See Sanction, page 2)

After eighteen years of service
Dean’s secretary to leave Thursday
By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

“I feel like somebody’s died,” said Dean of Students Will Terry about the resignation of Mrs. Loretta Archie, his secretary
for the past seven years. Mrs. Archie and her husband will be moving Friday to Covington, Georgia, where he has
a new job.

Mrs. Archie has spent eighteen years at Davidson, first in admissions, then in the registrar's office, and finally in the
Dean’s office. She finds it difficult to leave Davidson after so many years but hopes to continue working in an
academic environment. The Oxford, Georgia, branch of Emory University is near Covington, and Mrs. Archie said she might get a
job there. “Hopefully, I can find a school as nice as Davidson,” she said.

Terry said Mrs. Archie’s services have “been invaluable in making students feel at home and welcome.” He added, “I bet
75% of the (letters) I get from graduates ask me to say hello to Mrs. Archie.”

Debbie Hoover will take over Mrs. Archie’s duties immediately. She is currently secretary to Lee Willingham, Director of the Living
Endowment. Terry, Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, and a committee of five students interviewed nine applicants for Mrs. Archie’s
job. Terry said that finding a replacement was not easy. The job requires public relations ability, discretion, organizational ability, and
a good memory.

Mrs. Archie, Will Terry’s popular secretary, is moving to Georgia with her husband. (Brad Kerr)

Davidson PIRG to continue
By TIMWHALEN Staff Writer

Despite its defeat in last week’s SGA referendum, Davidson’s chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC-PIRG) is
still alive, at least temporarily. NC-PIRG’s state board decided last weekend to continue the Davidson chapter this year, according to
Chapter Chairperson Susan Marynowski. State Co-Chairperson Elisa Wolper said, however, there will be no Davidson PIRG chapter next year unless
the chapter can find some systematic and reliable funding source.

Wolper said the state organization is maintaining the Davidson chapter this year because it has great faith in the potential
for PIRG at Davidson. Marynowski cited the “intelligence and initiative” of Davidson students and a desire to keep a chapter
in the southern part of the state as part of this potential. According to Marynowski, the chapter has no specific
fundraising activities planned, but will concentrate on its public interest programs in order to improve its image on campus. Marynowski
hopes to attract funding through dynamic programs and promotion.

SGA President John Jackson, however, said that SGA will not support the PIRG. This year, the chapter will regularly inform
the college administration, the SGA, and the student body of their progress, according to Marynowski. Next week they will circulate
a school-wide survey to determine what issues interest students. Results of the survey will be used in planning future projects
for this year, Marynowski said.

One group of PIRG members is studying the problem of battered women and children. A speaker from Charlotte will address
the group on the issue later in the year. Marynowski also said the chapter plans to revise its Off-Campus Housing
Guide and to sponsor a public debate on the military draft, an issue expected to come up again. The Davidson
chapter will also participate in a state-wide PIRG follow-up study of status offenders, Marynowski said.

Five years ago, a NC-PIRG study on status offenses—actions which are illegal only for minors—resulted in the Status Offenders Act,
which provided for shelters and rehabilitation programs for status offenders. The state organization’s other projects for the year, Wolper said,
include a study of “redlining,” or denial of insurance to homes and businesses in certain low-income areas, and an investigation
of methods used by cities to monitor air pollution.

Rash of thefts prompts warning

By MARK BARRETT News Editor

College officials are encouraging students to lock their doors in the wake of a series of thefts Monday night. According
to Housing Director Bill Bolding, about 20 to 40 students had their wallets stolen late Monday afternoon, probably all by
the same burglar. From 10 to 12 members of the basketball and wrestling teams, two students in Watts, and three
in Belk were victimized according to Davidson Police Officer Charles Burton. Burton said that there may have been other burglaries
reported without his knowledge and that some thefts have probably not been reported at all.

The thief stole the athletes’ wallets from their gym locker room at about 5 p.m., Burton said. Bolding said the
dorm thefts probably occurred around 6 p.m. Only wallets were taken. Neither Burton nor Bolding could estimate the total amount
of money lost. Bolding said the largest individual loss he knew of was $60.

Burton said the police have few clues as to the thief’s identity. Police have received two possible descriptions of the
thief: 1) a 6'3” young male with a medium build and 2) a heavily built 6’2” young male. Both Bolding
and Burton think the thief is a student. They urged students to lock their doors if they planned to be
away for any length of time.
