On Campus

Thursday, November 29

10:15am Dr. Tom Skinner: Staley Lecturer Love
7:00pm Dr. Tom Skinner: Be Love

Friday, November 30

10:00am Dr. Tom Skinner
12:30pm Lunch with Tom Skinner, Morrison Room
2:30pm Conversation with Tom Skinner, Conversation Pit
8:00pm & 10:30pm Pop Film: "Little Big Man," Love
9:00pm Band Party Featuring "Blue Condition," Emanon

Sunday, December 2

6:00pm Davidson Christian Fellowship, 900 Room
7:30pm Concert by Early Music Group, Phi Hall

Monday, December 3

7:30pm Forum on the Draft, 900 Room

Tuesday, December 4

10:00am Open Meeting with Dr. Spencer, Morrison Room
10:00pm Concert by James Swisher, Shirley Jackson, and Kirk Trevor, 900 Room

Wednesday, December 5

8:00pm Fine Film: "Three Sisters," Love

The Charlotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of Kirk Trevor, Assistant Conductor of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, will perform 5 free concerts of Christmas music for the citizens of Charlotte. Funded in part by the City of Charlotte and the Arts & Science Council, these Sidewalk Concerts are planned to share the spirit of Christmas with busy people throughout the City.

The locations of the concerts are:
- Wednesday, December 5, Pease Auditorium, CPCC, at 1 p.m.
- Thursday, December 6, Peadoe Mall, at 7 p.m.
- Saturday, December 15, Cotswold Shopping Center, 2 p.m.
- Tuesday, December 18, Charlottetown Mall, 12:15 p.m.

The Brass Quintet will play Christmas selections at the Tree Trimming Ceremony at City Hall on December 14 at 12 noon.

Some of the works to be performed by the Chamber Orchestra include "A Christmas Festival" by LeRoy Anderson, selections from the "Nutcracker Suite" by Tschaikowsky, "Five Christmas Carols" by Willcocks, "Concerto Grosso #8 in G (Christmas)" by Corelli, and "Two Elegiac Melodies" by Grieg.

Take part in Davidson tradition.

Skinner to deliver Staley Lectures

Tom Skinner, a black evangelist who once was head of the Harlem Lords street gang, will give three Staley Lectures at Davidson College Nov. 29-30.

Skinner, 37, gave up his gang leadership at age 15 to pursue the Christian life. Educated at Wagner College and Manhattan Bible Institute and through American Management Association programs, he is president of Tom Skinner Associates, an international evangelical organization. His weekly radio program, "Tom Skinner Speaks," is heard on many black-oriented stations, and he has been an occasional host of "The PTL Club" television program produced in Charlotte.

Skinner and his associates specialize in ministering to college students, city-wide crusades, street groups, black leadership seminars, and prisons. He is chairman of the board of Urban Ministries, Inc., which publishes educational materials especially for the black church. He has written four books: "Black and Free," "Words of Revolution," "How Black is the Gospel?" and "If Christ is the Answer, What are the Questions?"

The Black Student Coalition is having lunch with Dr. Skinner in the Morrison Room on Friday at 1:00. Sign up at the chat if you want to attend. He will also be in the Conversation Pit from 2:30 to 4:30 on Friday.

Skinner's addresses will be at 10:15 a.m. and 7 p.m. Thursday and at 10 a.m. Friday, all in Love Auditorium, Chambers Building.

Konove to speak on solar greenhouses

Paul Konove from Chapel Hill will be on campus Sunday, December 2 to give a slide show and talk on "Building Your Own Solar Greenhouse." Mr. Konove was the supervisor of the house recently built in Huntersville by the Davidson Service Corps.

Paul Konove’s group builds greenhouses throughout the southeast in order to train the local people in how to build them. These greenhouses are especially beneficial for low-income families and can provide 30 to 36 percent of a family's food needs.

Paul Konove will give his slide show and talk at 7:30 Sunday evening in the Morrison Room of the College Union. Everyone is invited!