October 12, 1979—The Davidsonian—7

Billy Price (upside down in picture) blocks a Randolph-Macon punt in Saturday's game. (Brad Kerr)

Soccer team counts on freshmen
By TED JONES
Staff Writer

There must be some incentive in coming into a game as a substitute, at least in the case of the Davidson soccer team. The Wildcats’ top two scorers, freshmen Tom “Garbage” Schember and Hall “Hollywood” Barnett, normally find themselves on the bench at the opening whistle. Yet, when their chance arises, they take full advantage of it.

Schember already had two goals that decided Davidson victories and Barnett had also proved a game breaker himself when they entered the game against Marshall Friday. Before the final whistle they each scored two goals and Barnett had three assists while Schember had one in Davidson’s 6-0 victory. Their stellar play has overshadowed the prowess of halfback Jimmy Hawk, who had the other two goals and forward Chuck Price, who while playing outstandingly at Winger, has yet to score this season.

The Marshall game was at best sloppy. The field was slippery and muddy from the week’s constant rain. While Davidson won handily, they should have destroyed the disorganized Marshall squad. Instead, the Wildcats had a lackluster day, perhaps amazed at Marshall’s unorthodox play.

Tuesday against Furman, Davidson was not so fortunate as to run into an inferior club. Davidson scored first, a goal credited to Barnett, that bounced off a Furman player trying to pass back to his goalie, who subsequently slipped. Davidson played a fine first half, but was unable to put any more in. Then seemingly running out of gas, Davidson gave up two goals in the second half to lose 2-1. The Wildcats’ first half strategy of hitting long balls for the forwards to chase down didn’t produce in the second half. The win and the loss left Davidson 2-1 in the Southern Conference and 6-6 on the year. This week the Wildcats play Georgia State Saturday at home (2 p.m.) and UNCC away Tuesday.

Give a gift he can put together himself! Springbok puzzles are challenging and fun. $5.50 and $7.00
THE VILLAGE STORE of Davidson © 1979 Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Mistakes mar 35-6 triumph
Gridders cruise to Homecoming victory
By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

Davidson's alumni had reason to cheer last Saturday as the Wildcats won their Homecoming game against Randolph-Macon, 35-6. Offensively, Davidson rushed for 316 yards and added 79 through the air as the defense held Randolph-Macon to a mere 194 yards of total offense. The Cats will journey to Pennsylvania this Saturday as they play a fine Lehigh team in a very big battle. The Engineers feature an excellent passing attack from their I-backfield offense and a very large, tough 4-3 defense.

Mistakes again ruled last Saturday’s game. Davidson blocked three Yellow Jacket punts (two by Jerry Leavitt and one by Billy Price) and recovered three fumbles. The Wildcats contributed by losing the ball twice deep in Randolph-Macon territory. Alvin Atkinson gave a fine performance in a rather lackluster offensive day as he rushed for 103 yards in 15 carries and scored on runs of 35 yards and four yards. Davidson's offense capitalized on only one blocked punt and were stopped five times inside the Randolph-Macon 30-yard line (twice on fourth and short), but were able to move the ball easily when outside Yellow Jacket territory.

The Cats scored in both the first and second quarters to go ahead 14-0 at halftime. The game wasn't decided, however, until the fourth quarter when Davidson scored three touchdowns. Randolph-Macon scored their only touchdown late in the game after the issue was settled.

The defense turned in another fine performance by recovering three of the four Yellow Jacket fumbles; all three were claimed by John Bazos. The defense repeatedly gave the offense excellent field position while allowing only twelve first downs.

Coach Ed Farrell had this to say after the game, “We played sloppily, but we won. I can’t complain about a win.”

Bonehead and Brothers act as Ann Landers
By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS
IMAC Columnists

Well, Homecoming is over now—the Cats rolled over Randolph-Macon, the freshmen got a taste of college, and everybody at South Carolina had a blast. Alas, it’s time to put away our playthings and get to the serious stuff—IMAC. Things have really been hopping here at the B&BB office lately, and we thought we'd give you a peek into our mailbag so you too can feel Davidson’s...heartbeat.

Dear B&BB,

You haven’t got the guts to sign your names while freely assassinating more characters than ever got zapped in the Guide to Courses at Davidson (re: Davidsonian, Oct. 5). I always sign my name, even if it does sound like the name of a Scottish king. Furthermore, it makes no sense that you praise those flickerball teams that do well while you make fun of those teams that do poorly. It just isn’t fair to us SPE’s. You mother-rapers are clearly morally reprehensible.

Hooper Alexander IV

Dearest Hoopla,

We think very highly of our names—as a matter of fact, we carved them on the side of your car. Let us also point out that by using a pen name we’re following in the footsteps of such nondescript writers as Mark Twain and George Sand. One more thing—hardly anyone read the trash you wrote last week, but nobody is going to read this, you SPE!

B&BB

P.S. We can only hope there'll never be a V. “Zapped” is a really good word, too. Did you used to watch “Batman” a lot?

Dear B&BB,

You are really doing a great job with the column this year. The articles are insightful, articulate, and relevant. By the way, how are things going over at the Office of Academic Affairs? Are we still going mountain climbing this summer? Also, could I borrow some of your Renaissance clothing? Take care now, and if the column causes you too much mental strain, don’t hesitate to give me a ring.

Sam Spencer

P.S. What are we going to do about this tenure stuff? I haven't really given it much thought yet. You know, Jim Richards comes up for tenure next year, and we've got to do something before then. Later.

Dear B&BB,

I'd like to address you concerning the rankings we have incurred the last two weeks. First we were in the Bottom 5, then we were ranked behind the Wild Ones. I don’t understand your intricate ranking system. We are, in fact, a very strong team. Case in point, we almost beat the PIKA’s last week. Please try to be more consistent in the future.

Sterling Martin

Dearest Sterling,

We refuse to admit that your club is worthy of serious consideration, even with the addition of the Munch-o-matic. But we do have some suggestions for your edification. In other words, here’s what you need to do:
1) Put the Geach at tailback.
2) Give Rev. John Rogers an irresistible call for the purpose of flickerball redemption.
3) Give Jeff Frank some hand-eye coordination.
4) Tell Krentz to quit burning the freshmints gradewise.

In return, all we ask for this advice is a check for $1500, payable to the B&BB Bahamas Fund, P.O. Box 6, Davidson, N.C.

B&BB

Dear Fellas,

I was just thinkin’, you guys have really been givin’ me a hard time. I have two tests tomorrow, and I can’t decide which to study for and so I decided to write you guys instead. I’m a serious student with an engineering career in my future. You know I’ve always liked trains. I'd like to be a conductor, but I haven't had Music 121 yet. Another thing, you can’t say anything bad about me this week cause me and Laps are going to Cincy to see the Reds in the Series. What you CAN do is talk about Minor’s new book about me. It’s called Joby by Minor.

Joby Merten

Dear Merts,

We'll review the book next week. In the meantime hang in there and get that application.

Now for some IMAC highlights: Number one SAE gatored past the SPE’s 60-7 and PAX SOS 82-0, led by Danny “Too Tall” Hock and Will “Too Short” Grimsley, and a ferocious defense. In another critical game, Longitudinal Forces beat Reckless Abandon 27-18 to return to the Top 10. The East Men and Theta are other freshman teams capable of beating some upperclassmen. Get off Chief. Elsewhere, Hurtin’ 4 Certain swept past the Warks 54-26, and the surprising PIKA’s stumbled past the Old Men 24-21. In the other games half of the teams emerged victorious while the rest lost. Oh, yeah, the girls played some games, too.

Team Points
1. SAE #1 (37)
2. KA #1 (11)
3. Hurtin’ 4 Certain (14)
4. Wild Ones (1)
5. PIKA
6. Warks
7. Old Men
8. Longitudinal Forces
9. East Men
10. IHO

Remember, only dopes smoke dope.

Next week: John Davis smokes dope! Later.