2h

Ten Little Indians is full of suspense
By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

Surrounded by darkness, gunshots, and shouts from the actors, the audience screamed and grabbed hold of their neighbors. This was
the scene during one of the most suspenseful moments of Ten Little Indians on Friday night. Held in the drama
workshop, the play attracted a lot of audience participation because of the closeness of the audience to the stage. Ann
Parker, who played Emily Brent, commented, "It was interesting to hear the whispers from the audience as they debated who
the killer was."

The play moved very quickly because of the suspense and the humor. Jack Hall as William Blore, alias Mr. Davis,
provided a very humorous note with his boisterous character part. Clifton Fay did a superb job as the easygoing yet
concerned servant Rogers. James Baskin (Whit Yelverton) as Lawrence Wargrave, Ann Burke as Vera Claythorn, and John Boswell as Philip
Lombard also delivered strong performances.

EPC position open
By CAROLE LOPTSON
News Editor

SGA Senator Jeff Stidham announced today that the Senate is seeking a sophomore to fill a student position on the
Educational Policy Committee (EPC). Stidham, chairman of the search committee, explained the student will replace senior Peggy Noel as one
student EPC member. The EPC evaluates and implements academic policies.

By ROGER HODGE
Staff Correspondent

Summer is soon to come, and for those looking for an especially worthwhile manner in which to spend those "free"
months, Davidson offers a rather attractive and unique program that may be of interest. The Davidson-Broughton Summer Program allows undergraduate
students the opportunity to work in a state mental hospital. The program runs for eight weeks, from June 4 to
July 27. Dr. Timothy N. Webster directs the program and is anxious for interested students to contact him as soon
as possible. Prerequisites for the program include satisfactory completion of General Psychology (Psy 101) and Introduction to Personality (Psy 102).

In the Davidson-Broughton Summer Program, students live on the actual hospital grounds and are involved with the diverse units within
the hospital. Each student is assigned to a different hospital unit for four weeks, and then is reassigned to a
second unit for the final four weeks. Yet, all the while, the students have access to the majority of the
hospital units. One is allowed, within limits, to participate in treatment programs and therapy sessions on an individual basis.

Of course, classroom discussions constitute an integral part of the program, in that it functions as a public service, while
at the same time offering an accumulating learning environment. Furthermore, the program is "special" in other ways as well. Problems
and approaches to treatment and prevention in abnormal psychology are emphasized in the class.

For it has practical economic consequences. Through participation in the program, students receive credit for two courses, Abnormal Psychology (Psy
131) and Advanced Abnormal Psychology (Psy 231). The combined tuition for both courses is only three hundred dollars, whereas the
tuition for either of these courses during the academic year at Davidson is $370. Important to note is that this
opportunity is not restricted to psychology majors. Rather, valuable experience is offered for all who are considering clinical-applied occupations (medicine,
nursing, social work, and others).

Opportunity in state mental hospital

Also, a medical hospital exists as part of the Broughton complex, allowing students limited exposure to the relation of psychiatric
and medical problems and treatments. Furthermore, Professor Webster favors "a mix with diverse and stimulating perspectives." Of last year’s assemblage
from Davidson, half of the students were not majoring in psychology.

This North Carolina state mental hospital is located in Morganton, only an hour’s drive from Davidson. Well-staffed with psychologists and
psychiatrists, the hospital now serves as a center for active treatment of abnormal psychological difficulties. Approximately 1200 patients are...Currently at
the hospital. The Davidson-Broughton Summer Program was established largely due to the efforts of Dr. William G. Workman, Richardson Professor
Emeritus of Psychology, and has been operating for nine years. Bard kept the suspense building until the very last minute.
Joel Shirk as Dr. Armstrong, Chris Conrad as General MacKenzie, John Niblock as Anthony Marston, Esther Bruce as Mrs. Rogers,
and Billy Taylor as Fred Narracott also did an excellent job in their supporting roles.

Aspect of the course. Yet much material is present with which to work other than a mere textbook. Students are
anxious to relate actual working experiences among themselves in these informal canvasses. The Davidson-Broughton Summer Program is, as Webster remarks,
“a special course.”

"Hobart’s Park" exhibits varied success
By JIM GARRETT
Staff Writer

The long-awaited arrival of Davidson’s new campus magazine, Hobart’s Park, is a pleasant surprise. Designed to provide an outlet for
creative expressions on campus, Hobart's Park—the brainchild of Lyman Collins, Amanda Hall, and Greg Hankins—fills its twenty-six pages with genuine
variety. Reviews, photographs, poetry, essays, art, previews, and opinions are neatly scattered throughout the issue with a minimum of typographical
errors and evidence of careful planning and hard work. From Rob Payne’s review of the New Wave's “Devo” to William
Wellnitz’s essay on “The Near Reality of Human Cloning” to David Webb’s “Is the Pope Polish?,” Hobart's Park defines itself
in its literary assortment.

Is the assortment in Hobart's Park too varied? Keeping in mind that Hobart's Park is defined as a “magazine” and
not a literary journal, the Editor’s emphasis on “variety” is completely justified as well as enthusiastically encouraged. The literary assortment
represents the diverse interests on campus and is unified in such a way that no article, essay, or review is
out of context. There is a glaring absence of short fiction from students. The Editors attribute this deficiency to “space
limitations” and “difficult choices.” Since the content of Hobart's Park is derived from the student population, it is hoped that
aspiring writers will come forward to submit their stories to Hobart's Park’s next issue.

The photography, poetry, and art contribute significantly to the “magazine” quality that the Editors felt was important. Beyond adding “variety”
to the magazine, the photography, poetry, and art demonstrate, in themselves, genuine inspiration and talent. Gary Hart's “red sox on
the radio” and Whit Yelverton’s photo essay on darkness are exemplary of the artistic quality throughout the issue. Johnny Ray
Dubose hurries spring along. (Gregg Strader).

Davidsonians like Albee’s plays; Albee’s actors like Davidsonians
By MARY WILLIS
Staff Correspondent

Edward Albee proved once more that as a playwright, his work can and will shock audiences into thought and awareness.
Monday night, his company performed The American Dream and Zoo Story, two one-act plays, in Love Auditorium. They contained both
comic and tragic elements. The company was put together and directed by Albee himself, who “almost choreographed the pieces,” as
one of the actors put it. This production, formulated and formalized by Albee himself, represents the author’s conception precisely, and,
as a unified whole, fascinatingly.

Themes ran together from the two plays; they dealt with role playing, pride, honor—all of these as false ideals—and showed
them to us in jest, and in earnest. They were “depressing,” sad, hilarious representations—they were ridiculous and very real. They
pulled from every apparent emotional outlet in the audience and found some that were hidden, perhaps because of the derivation
from Albee’s own experience. He presents what he knows.

The response from the audience was excellent throughout the performance and afterwards, as the students met with the actors at
the reception in the Union. The actors readily praised the Davidson audience and community as one of the better ones
they had confronted. One of the actors discussed the importance of audience feedback and response, and praised Monday's crowd as
being “sharp.” Albee's productions entertained, but mostly they must have succeeded in making us look at ourselves, for a moment
at least.
