dgepeth goes high over Joe Ferraro’s shoulders in last Friday's cheerleading tryouts. The six other girls who won positions are
Lisa Hasty, Judy Inge, Sue Woodie, Susan Roberts, Julie Cheney, and Patty Long. Doug Crosby, Dale Hart, Doug McPherson, Ferraro,
David Poe, Jeff Wall, and Frank Clark will be the boys on next year’s squad. (Brad Kerr)

April 27, 1979—The Davidsonian—11

Disco 115
Live Band on Weekends
Pool Tournament on Mondays
$25.00 prize
Foosball on Tuesdays
Happy Hour: 4 - 7 p.m.
draft beer - 20¢
Located on Highway 115
3 miles south of Cornelius
hours: 11 a.m. - 1 a.m.
6 days a week

Lapple out for the season
Wildcats’ eulsdiie Wake Forest,
By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team may finally be in the winning groove since they have won four of five games this
past week. The team, now 11-18, had a big win Wednesday afternoon over Wake Forest 10-9. Earlier in the week,
the Cats beat Wingate 12-8, split in a doubleheader with the Citadel by winning 1-0 and losing 3-1, and beat
local rival UNCC.

Davidson was trailing Wake 6-0 after five innings, but got on track in the seventh. The Cats chalked up three
runs in the sixth and then struck for five in the seventh. Joby Merton and Tim Goodell hit home runs
to give Davidson an 8-7 lead. Both teams added two runs each, but Wake couldn't catch up. Jonathan Young stayed
on the mound all afternoon for the Cats.

In the Wingate game, senior pitcher Ken Norwood pitched nine strong innings to pick up his first win of the
season. He allowed only three earned runs on four hits. Catcher Bob Lapple was out with a leg injury.

Frisbee golf craze hits Davidson
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Frisbee golf is a growing sport in America, and Davidson frisbee enthusiasts had their day last Saturday in the second
annual Davidson Golf Tournament.

David Huie, the instigator of the tourney, almost won his own tournament, but Chris Friesinger was the victor on the
second playoff hole in a sudden-death. Huie and Friesinger were tied for the lead at 18 under par after 36
holes of play. Bruce Brown was a close third at 17 strokes below par. Professor Bob Myers was the low
scorer among the faculty members that participated.

The original plans for this year's tournament did not materialize, but Huie hopes to go "big time" in the future.
A sponsor, a large purse, and professional participants could give Davidson a really "big time" event. Frisbee golf is a
growing sport not only here on campus but also all over the country. A Southern regional tournament will be held
on June 2 and 3 in Birmingham, Ala., and Huie plans to participate. This is a qualifying tournament for the
world championships held in Pasadena, Cal., later this year. The Whammo Corporation and the Professional Disc Golf Association will sponsor
a $50,000 invitational tournament for some of the top frisbee throwers in the country.

Last Saturday’s tournament will be featured on WBTV's "Carolina Camera." The tentative showing date is May 7; further details will
be printed in the announcement sheet. More than 80 players toured the course—the D. Grier Martin Memorial.Frisbee Golf Course. Martin,
Sam Spencer’s predecessor as President of the college, was an avid frisbee enthusiast when the fad was first beginning to
grow. Mrs. Martin was on hand to present the first and second place trophies. Huie and other frisbee fans in
the area hope that Davidson will follow the national growth trend and one day have a “big time” tournament on
campus.

Senior tri-captain Tim Goodell hit three-for-three to follow Merton’s performance. Against The Citadel, the Cats won the first game of
the doubleheader 1-0 led by the strong hurling of sophomore Jon Young who shut out the Bulldogs with a four-hitter.
The winning run came after John Porter hit a double and then scored off a single by Tim Goodell. In
the second game, the Cats lost 3-1 despite the near-flawless pitching of senior Ron Cannon who allowed only two Bulldog
hits the entire night. Catcher Bob Lapple and freshman second baseman Allen Griffin each hit a triple and a single
to lead the offensive attack.

In the 7-6 victory over UNCC, the Cats tallied only five hits matched against twelve for UNCC. Senior Ken Norwood
pitched his second win of the year by hurling the first six innings while Jon Young relieved to pick up
the save. Porter ripped a triple and a single to lead the Cats at the plate while Griffin hit a
game-saving double that scored three runs to put the team ahead. One unfortunate blow to the team came when catcher
Bob Lapple ran into the backstop while hustling for a foul pop-up. Lapple tore some ligaments in his thumb and
will have his hand in a cast for the rest of the season.

This coming week, the Wildcats will be on a five-day road trip to play UNC-Chapel Hill, VMI, and Marshall.

SPORTS QUIZ
Q: Who hit the first home run in Atlanta Stadium?
A: Joe Torre

Q: Who won the 1914 National League Batting Championship?
A: Jake Daubert

Burnard wins Charlotte Road Race: Hoots leads the crowd astray
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Davidson sophomore Greg Burnard placed first out of a field of 600 in the 10,000-meter Charlotte road race this past
Saturday. Burnard ran the 6.2 miles in 32 minutes and 56 seconds, nearly a minute ahead of his closest rival.
Margaret Herman placed second in the women’s division. Frizzle Willis, Bart Landess, and John Hoots were the other Davidson students
running in the race. Burnard said that he runs approximately seven miles a day as a member of the track
team. A lot of the time goes into work worthwhile. Burnard and the rest of the Davidson track team would
like to do equally well in the Southern Conference championship meet this coming weekend at Boone.

Burnard was proud of his win, but a problem in the race lessened his enthusiasm. Hoots was trailing Burnard and
missed one of the turns in the course that was not marked. As a result, much of the field ran
the wrong course. Burnard was following the police car, but Hoots was far enough back not to know the right
course. “I would have liked to have won with everybody on the right course,” he said, however, “He ran a
studly race.”
