The Davidson College women’s cross country team took third place behind champion UNC and runner-up Wake Forest in the AIWA State Invitational Cross Country Meet hosted last Saturday by Davidson.

Sil Masia of UNC was the individual winner with a course record clocking of 18 minutes and 57 seconds. Davidson's own [name missing] finished second in a school record time of 19:40. She will be going on to the AIWA regionals in Murray, Kentucky, on November 3.

Davidson coach Sally Bondurant was pleased with her team’s third-place showing in the five-team field.

“I thought it was a fantastic, super effort on everyone’s part,” she said. “A good showing here makes us competitive in the state. Also, many people were pleased with the well-run meet.”

With this race, the women’s cross country team finished out their season with a 3-2 record in dual meet competition and the third-place finish in the state. Saturday will mark their last meet, a five-woman 25-mile relay in Greenville, South Carolina. This is not a sanctioned intercollegiate meet and will not count on their season.

Sailing Team

The Davidson sailing team, led by skippers Don Rose and Will Berson, captured a five-team regatta last weekend at the University of Virginia. The victory was ample revenge for a fourth-place finish two weeks earlier in a Homecoming regatta hosted by Davidson. Many of the same schools participated in both events.

In intercollegiate competition, each school enters two boats - one in division A and one in division B. Finishing places of each division are combined; low score wins.

Davidson won the overall regatta at Virginia on the strength of a first-place finish by skipper Rose in the A division. Other Davidson sailors include Mort Ames and Stuart Baskin.

The sailing team’s next competition is the championship regatta to be hosted by Duke University in a couple of weeks.

Men's Cross Country

Disappointment reigned last weekend as Davidson finished ninth at the North Carolina State men’s cross country meet. Jeff Morrow and Greg Burnard finished first and second for Davidson with times of 34 minutes 24 seconds and 34:33, respectively, over the 10,000-meter course.

Also, John Rees, running wildly in an open race, was clocked at 34:51 for 10,000 meters. This is one minute and 49 seconds faster than his time for the same course last year. Otherwise, Davidson was out of the competitive picture.

There is hope that the team will be able to put their act together on November 2 here in Davidson for the Southern Conference championships. If things go well, Davidson might be able to catch Appalachian State and Western Carolina, two schools that came in seventh and eighth in the state meet.

—DANNY ARMISTEAD

Baseball

The Davidson baseball team, under coach Palmer Muench, completed its 1979 fall practice Friday with a hard-fought tie against UNCC. Having finished with a 2-2-1 exhibition record this fall, the team will undergo a weightlifting and running program for the rest of the year.

The players hope to improve upon last year’s 13-26 record next spring with the help of a talented cast of newcomers, including Phil Gordon, Bobby Barnes, John Marshall, and Al Baldwin. Returning players like Joby Merten, Cam Zurbruegg, Eddie Haskel, and [name missing] are expected to lead the team.

A successful season, however, may rest on the choices made by the coaching staff.

Take part in Davidson tradition.

Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s King of Pizza. The food maintains an excellent reputation for being fresh and of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere or the take-out order service.

Munch on a pizza from King of Pizza and see how much you enjoy it.

King of Pizza, Inc.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 663-3030

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY