6—The Davidsonian—September 21, 1979

Sports Scripts

Women’s Cross Country

The women’s cross country team, boosted by a second-place finish in the Stone Mountain Road Race, will have a two-week layover before their Sept. 27 meet at Lynchburg. Coach Sally Bondurant was pleased with her team's performance on the five-mile course in which the Davidson women placed behind Berry College and ahead of Georgia State.

Senior Susan Davidson was the bright spot of the race for the women, setting a new school record for the course. Other top finishers for the Davidson women were Carie Nunn, Seed Willis, and Lisa Jenkins.

The team plans to use the next two weeks to heal some minor injuries and improve their conditioning. “We're by no means going to slack off over the period,” a player said. —ROB MOORE

Soccer

After Jimmy Hawk scored Davidson's second goal last Wednesday against Winthrop, a definite feeling of excitement filled the stands and the bench. Davidson went on to lose 4-2 in a 20-minute overtime against Winthrop.

Coach Karl Kremser feels the game was important because the team “moved up a step.”

The Cats showed a more mature nature than in their previous two games. They played closely and competitively against an excellent team. In a game filled with controversy, the team stayed “cool.”

Evidence of this can be seen in Davidson's first goal. Literally at the gun ending the first half, Pete Sluiter poked the ball over the line in front of Winthrop’s goal to tie the game 1-1.

Davidson had another major test Saturday as the Cats traveled to Durham to play powerhouse Duke. In a game totally dominated by the Blue Devils, Davidson lost 3-0. High points were the play of Mike Iordanou in goal, alternating with Doug Schnessler, the return of Captain Kevin Robbins and Dan Robinson to the defense, moving Pete Sluiter to wing fullback, and moving freshman Bill Wahl up to halfback.

Despite a pair of losses this week, the soccer team feels these were good experiences—steps toward the play needed for a successful season. Now 2-2 (the Marshall forfeit has now been rescheduled), Davidson plays Presbyterian Thursday, St. Andrews Saturday, East Carolina Monday, and N.C. State Wednesday—a real test to Davidson’s endurance and skill. —TED JONES

Pro Drafts

Two of Davidson’s most outstanding athletes were drafted by professional teams during the summer. On June 5th, senior Bob Lapple was selected by the Cincinnati Reds baseball club in the seventh round.

John Gerdy, a ‘79 graduate, was tapped in the third round of the National Basketball League's June 24th draft by the New Jersey Nets.

Lapple, a native of Thornwood, N.Y., was chosen All-Southern in each of his three years of play for Davidson’s baseball team. He was also All-NCAA District 3 for the past two years.

Gerdy is the all-time leading scorer in Davidson basketball history and ranked sixth in scoring average in the NCAA last year. He, too, was a three-time All-Southern Conference selection and was honored as the Southern Conference Player of the Year for 1979-80. —BILL WILSON

Field Hockey

The Lady Cats will open their season tomorrow (Friday) at Wake Forest. The first home game will be Monday against Winthrop. Game time will be at 4 pm.

Saturday, September 15, the team competed in a five-team round-robin scrimmage. Davidson defeated High Point 4-0, Wake Forest 1-0, and an N.C. club team 2-0. They were defeated by scores of 1-0 by Catawba and Pfeiffer.

The team feels the 1-0 defeats will not darken the victorious outlook for the rest of the year. In the next encounter, the team promises to reverse the score, if not double it according to one source. The team is playing well, and with the excellence of Cindy Curtis at the goal, they look forward to a decisive win on Friday. —ANNE HOCKETT

The staff is petitioning students interested in sports this year to come by the basketball office.

BERT MOBLEY

Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by . . .

BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925"

M. A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

Exec. Vice President

384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

New Wildcat Checking helps Davidson students 3 ways.

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co. has developed a new Wildcat Checking plan just for Davidson students. Here’s what it gives you:

1. Simplified checking. You can write up to 10 checks a month for only $2 a month. There’s no minimum balance, and additional checks are only 20¢. When you take a summer vacation, there’s no charge at all if you don’t use your account.

2. Master Charge card. You get your own Master Charge credit card, honored nationwide, good for up to $500 credit.

3. Convenient statements. Each month you'll get detailed statements of your checking account activities.

Only Piedmont Bank offers you all three of these benefits. Walk across Main Street today and open your own Wildcat Checking account. See what we mean when we say “We Care.”

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co.
MEMBER F.D.I.C.