By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

The chill darkness of winter reached deep into February and made Spring's arrival slow in coming this year. However, with
last week's beautiful weather, spring appears to have arrived.

In much the same way, the Davidson baseball team had a slow start but appears to have finally come into
its own with victories over Guilford (5-0), Lenoir-Rhyne (15-12), and Wingate (6-1).

The team had dropped to an 0-3 record during spring break, losing first to N.C. State (12-7) and then dropping
a conference double-header to U.T. of Chattanooga (12-7 and 15-11).

Despite the early losses, the Cats did have some bright spots such as the two home runs hit by catcher
Bob Lapple and the single home run hit by right fielder John Haskell in the Chattanooga double-header.

In their first win of the year, the Cats beat Guilford 5-0; sophomore Jon Young threw the five-hit shutout for
the Cats. The Cats led going into the eighth inning by a narrow 1-0 margin. Then, with two men on
base, freshman Earl Ransom came into the game as a pinch-hitter for the Cats and knocked a two-run triple.

Junior second baseman Andy Hosay followed with another triple which cemented the Cats’ lead for the rest of the game.

In the 15-12 win over Lenoir-Rhyne, senior pitcher John Madden got his first college win by his sound hurling performance.
Sophomore third baseman Cam Zurbruegg supported Madden's pitching by hitting five-for-five at the plate with three triples. Zurbruegg’s slugfest brought
in six runs for the Cats.

Against Wingate, the Cats fell behind 6-0 in the first inning and dropped the first game of the double-header 8-2.
In the second game, the Cats came alive, led by senior Ron Cannon’s strong pitching.

Cannon allowed only four hits in the 6-1 victory. He was supported by the Cats’ impeccable defense and the strong
hitting of designated hitter Rusty Colechia, who got two hits, shortstop Jobi Merton’s double, and senior left-fielder Tim McDowell’s smashing
home run.

Most recently, the Cats dropped a game to West Virginia State, moving their record to 3-5. The Cats allowed seven
runs in the first inning, mostly due to pitching difficulties. However, freshman pitcher Diggs Bishop came in as a reliever
for the Cats in the first inning with no outs and shut West Virginia out for the next nine innings.
Though the Cats had plenty of chances to score, the much-needed “clutch hit” did not come through when men were
on base. The Cats could only muster two runs. They finally lost 7-2.

The Cats play the powerful UNC Chapel Hill Tarheels, who finished fourth in last year’s NCAA playoffs, this Friday. Though
the Heels lost several key players, they will offer tough competition for the Cats. Then, on Monday, the Cats play
Southern Conference newcomer East Tennessee State in a home double-header.

THAT OLD

IS BACK

than he can chew!

he’s biting off more

Out or safe? Opposing player hesitates as Davidson team member slides into base. (Gregg Strader)

Mon. Pool Tournament $25.00

Pitcher $2.50
Draft Beer 30¢

Free Case of Beer on Highest Pinball Score

Snack Bar & Grill giant TV Screen

Tues. Foosball

Live Band on Weekends
