THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South’s Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 15
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, February 2, 1979

Forty students toss studies aside; spend hours searching for child
By DAVE WEBB
Davidsonian Correspondent

Davidson students have cried over a D and celebrated over an A, but a recent incident showed that at least
40 of them have other concerns. A ten-year-old girl from Huntersville, Wendy Smith, was lost for ten hours last Wednesday
night while her father and Mecklenburg County Police organized a search led by volunteers and the fire department.

Wendy strayed from her home about 5:00 Wednesday afternoon in search of her Japanese puppy, Butchie. She ended up at
the home of some elderly neighbors, who later told the police they didn’t have a phone to notify anyone of
the girl’s whereabouts. In the meantime, Mrs. Smith, Wendy’s step-mother, began a search for the lost child with the help
of a neighbor, Shirleen Fisher. They called the Mecklenburg County Police for assistance. Mr. Smith was notified of his daughter’s
disappearance at work and rushed home to help in the search.

Although the County Police organized fire departments, by 1 am there was no clue as to Wendy’s location. It was
then that another neighbor, Mr. Harold Cook, called the all-night Davidson Emergency Rescue Service and asked if some students could
join in the search. “It was a first for us,” said Tim Goodell, assistant chief of volunteer (Gregg Strader) (see
Search, page 11).

The President says: keep exam system
By CHARLIE HAWKINS
Staff Writer

Chances for survival of self-scheduled exams at Davidson were boosted Wednesday when President Samuel Spencer expressed his “strong support” for
their continuation. Spencer’s statement was made in a memorandum to the faculty, following the Educational Policy Committee’s (EPC) recent proposal
recommending that self-scheduled exams be continued. The faculty will vote on the proposal at its next meeting on February 6.

Dean of Students Will Terry said, “I’m very pleased that this is (Spencer’s) stance and hope it is persuasive to
the faculty.” Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann, who heads the nine-member EPC, commented and predicted the faculty would
vote to continue this form of exams. Spencer gave two reasons for his support of the proposal. “First, the self-scheduled
exam (see President, page 11).

Will computers solve problem?
By GEORGE MURDAUGH
Senior Opinion Editor

For the first time in the history of the self-selection process at Davidson, the assignment of freshmen to eating houses
and fraternities on Patterson Court will be computerized. The change was approved last Thursday by the Council on Campus and
Religious Life, after being proposed by Patterson Court Council President Bryon Ratliff.

“Hopefully this method will make self-selection a lot smoother,” Ratliff said. “The use of random numbers should make it as
fair as possible,” he added. According to Ratliff, all freshmen participating in self-selection will submit on February 7 at most
three choices of houses. The computer will assign random numbers to these freshmen and process their choices accordingly. If a
student lists only one choice and is closed out of that house because it is full, his name will automatically
go on the waiting list for that house. Students who list more than one choice but are unable to get
into a house will sign the waiting list of their choice in the Dean's office.

Eddie Nance cutting tree limbs on campus.

No quick and easy solutions for registration woes — Klein
By CAROLE LOPTSON
News Editor

Registration isn’t going to get any better anytime soon. According to key administrators and professors currently studying the problem, it’s
a situation that will continue to plague the college. SomeAnswers may be forthcoming in time for fall term registration from
the new Educational Policy Committee on Registration and Course Enrollment, which is presently collecting information to define the problem accurately.
Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann said, “I don’t have any reason to believe this spring will be any better or
any worse than last spring’s registration.” College President Samuel Spencer commented, “I doubt there will be any improvements this term.
The problems are not the type that can be solved in a short period of time.” Chairman of the Committee
on Registration and Course Enrollment Benjamin Klein went so far as to say, “There are no final solutions to these
problems. These are problems we are always going to have with us,” though he added that his committee will “do
the best we can.” College Registrar Richard Burts sees this registration as having no new problems but no new solutions
either. Burts is taking no new steps to alleviate the situation, but he is continuing determinedly with previously attempted measures.
Burts, Zimmermann, and Klein agree the problem is complex. “There is no one thing that is responsible in a major
way for the problem,” said Zimmermann. Klein said that the committee is finding it’s not clear exactly what the problem
is. “We’re really very much trying to narrow down what the more serious problems are. It’s going to be hard
just to identify the problem,” though the committee has collected an enormous amount of data, he explained. “I suspect there
are things people perceive as problems that are not problems,” he commented. The registration system itself is not a problem
according to Burts. He maintained, “Our techniques for registration are very adequate. I think we have a good registration procedure,”
though some students have evidently found the system confusing, according to Zimmermann. (see Klein, page 11)

Connette doesn't believe Davidson should invest in discrimination
By PHIL DUNCAN
Special to The Davidsonian

Al Connette wants to jolt Davidson’s conscience. Since some of the College’s endowment funds are invested in U.S. multinational corporations
which operate in South Africa, Connette, a junior, says Davidson may be indirectly supporting the South African government and its
racist policies of Apartheid.

The system of Apartheid allows 4.5 million South African whites to discriminate legally against 19 million blacks in almost all
walks of life, from education and employment to taxation and land allocation all the way down to park benches designated
“whites only.” A Williams College political scientist has called South Africa “the only country in the world where a racial
minority holds reins of power by which they legally sanction economic, social, and political oppression of the majority.” Connette doesn’t
think that’s very good company for Davidson to be keeping.

He proposes two steps: “One thing the College could do would be to take a moral stand on the issue
of Apartheid. Let the South African government know that we don’t agree with their policy.” Then, Connette continued, the College
should find out if the corporations in which it invests are working to change the situation in South Africa. “If
a company is pushing for a change we could encourage that, commend the company. And if they’re following present and
past standards (of Apartheid), then the college and other interested shareholders could play a fairly major role in instigating change
or asking them to get out completely.”

Connette will be satisfied if the companies “are recognizing black labor unions, training blacks for higher jobs,” and carrying out
similar enlightened policies. “If they are not willing to go that far, we might as well get them out of
there.” Connette believes the South African government values the continued presence of the U.S. multinationals. Statistics show that 300 U.S.
companies (see Connette, page 11)
