At its weekly Monday evening meeting, the Patterson Court Council voted unanimously to have Davidson’s first popular election for the
Homecoming Queen and her court. This decision was long overdue. In previous years, a small committee consisting of faculty, staff,
and a couple of students chose the Homecoming finalist. She was selected from the numerous candidates sponsored by student organizations.
Twenty years ago, this system of judges was the most fair and viable. There were no girls on campus, so
relatively unknown imports were the only candidates. In the old days, a panel of judges was best qualified to make
responsible decisions.

After Davidson became coeducational, the judging process underwent a few major changes with the addition of new criteria for the
judges to consider. The manner in which a candidate responded in an interview was stressed. Community service and academic standing
became deciding factors. An extreme yet understandable attitude developed within the student body. The selection process had become reminiscent of
those used to determine awards for spring convocation. Not only was the privilege of popular selection unrealized, but the importance
of physical attractiveness and personality was overshadowed by the new criteria.

Nowadays, the Davidson student body is well aware of the female beauty within its ranks. Girls who are attractive are
known not only for their looks but for their personality, attitudes, and standing within the college community. The small size
of Davidson’s student body enables students to know their peers well, especially the female standouts. Davidson students are observant and
perfectly capable of making a responsible decision in a popular election.

Fortunately, the Patterson Court Council faced reality and chose to give students a full say in the matter. However, the
PCC decision has several drawbacks which must be considered. First, a popular vote enhances the possibility of block voting. Since
the members of each eating house, fraternity, and campus organization will vote for their respective candidates, the group with the
largest membership could easily sweep the election. For instance, all the freshmen in Belk could agree on one candidate and
vote for her. Second, the girls in Richardson or Cannon could agree on a male candidate, such that we could
well wind up with a Homecoming King instead of a Queen. Third, what will be the extent of campaigning and
publicity? Will Chambers and the dorms be littered with glossy, retouched photos of the candidates and stenciled campaign posters? Will
these girls go from door to door soliciting votes? Fourth, how will the election be conducted? The PCC would like
the SGA to hold the election next Tuesday. Regardless of who conducts the election, it will be very difficult to
keep the results under wraps until the coronation at half-time of the Homecoming football game. If the election is held
early in the week, the votes should not be counted until Friday night before the football game.

Two things are certain. The voter turnout will exceed the numbers voting for student government president, for student interest will
be more widespread. Also, regardless of the election results, the final selection will be remembered as a significant event in
Davidson’s history for many years.

—Bill Peeples

Editor's Note: All participants, male and female, must be students.

To the Editor:

Davidson College aspires to be “a college with a Christian commitment” and insists on a “fearless, penetrating search for truth
in all realms of knowledge.” I think that Davidson students are capable and willing to carry on a more fearless
and penetrating search for religious truth than the one now in progress. The central questions of religion are not discussed
at Davidson in proportion to their importance, which is overwhelming. Religion as a topic of conversation seems almost taboo here.Class,
students rarely participate in discussion of religious fundamentals, because such discussions rarely arise; outside of class, students either have something
better to do or are too afraid of having their convictions challenged to discuss them. Likewise, professors are hesitant to
express themselves earnestly on religion; instead, they give their professional opinions in class, while on weekends they assume very different
postures. This rather awkward situation is doubly unfortunate: not only are religious issues very important and deserving of more serious
pursuit, but Davidson students could learn a lot from each other and from their professors if there were any sort
of forum for religious dialogue at Davidson. Of course, there is the DCF, which is valuable because it fills an
urgent need among Christians. But there is also a need for Christians and non-Christians to come together and talk frankly
about what divides them; there is a need for a continuous dialogue that can help students sort out these vital
issues and perhaps come to have its own Socratic Club. Every two or three weeks, students and faculty could meet
and discuss what bothers them about religion. Professors could talk frankly about how they square their professional views with their
faith or their rejection of it. Students could get some straight answers from their teachers and their fellow students, and
could test their views against the views of others. We would all stand to learn a great deal in the
Socratic Club, and the college community would be a closer-knit, perhaps more honest place in which to live and work.
The Socratic Club will meet on Tuesday, October 2, at 8:00 pm in the Peregrine House. Everyone is invited.

Rob Campany ’81

Josh McDowell

To the Editor:

At the risk of appearing to have missed the comic intent of Mr. Mason’s article on “Maximum Sex,” we would
like to express concern regarding The Davidsonian’s coverage of this issue. The article dealt at great length with the expression
of Mr. Mason’s sexual inclinations (from which, we are sure, all profited greatly) but in the course of this scintillating
expose a false impression of Josh McDowell’s message was conveyed. To begin with, Josh McDowell’s speech was anything but “a
maze of theological and verbal condescension.” He presented simple principles in an orderly fashion, which would have put many a
Humes professor to shame. While the lecture was founded upon “religiously based love/sex material,” this seems a feeble excuse with
which to pass off the validity of the message. Finally, we do not believe the speech was as blatantly chauvinistic
as Mr. Mason implied. On the contrary, any proponent of cheap sex is, in our minds, a chauvinist. Ask any
girl. And, we are sorry that The Davidsonian chose not to treat Mr. McDowell’s message with the same respect with
which it has greeted other speakers on campus. While we might have hoped that the newspaper of a college dedicated
to Christian ideals would make some attempt to approach such a subject as a Christian's view of sex with honesty
and an open mind—we are again sorry to say that after two years of reading The Davidsonian we are not
greatly surprised at the slant you have taken. Of course, we do not wish to deny the freedom of The
Davidsonian to print critical articles. But as Thomas Jefferson once sighed, “It is a melancholy truth that a suppression of
the press could not more completely deprive the nation of its benefits, than is done by its abandoned prostitution to
falsehood.”

John Niblock ’81
Rand Malone ’81

We are sorry when any newspaper chooses to misrepresent the truth.
