Sports

Wildcats' first loss, to Bucknell, is a big one

By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats suffered their first defeat of the season last Saturday at the hands of the Bucknell Bisons. The
33-0 loss was particularly humiliating as the Cats had played much the same Bucknell team down to the wire the
previous season before losing, 21-20. This Saturday, the Randolph-Macon Yellow Jackets visit Richardson Field for Davidson’s Homecoming. The Yellow Jackets
have always played a tough game against the Wildcats in the past and have vowed to ‘give the Davidson alumni
something to remember’ in this, their last game with Davidson. Kickoff time is slated for 2 p.m.

Davidson’s offense hobbled to only 204 total yards Saturday, and the defense allowed over 500 yards to Bucknell. Coach Ed
Farrell felt the Bisons were better than Davidson but hardly 33 points better. “Things got out of hand toward the
end,’’ he said. Being with a hostile crowd made a difference, too. If everything had gone just right, we could
have played a really close game that could have gone either way. They just weren’t that much better than we,’’
he added.

Bucknell took the opening kickoff and promptly marched 68 yards to a touchdown. Both offense and defense played raggedly the
remainder of the first half and the teams retired for halftime with Bucknell on top, 19-0. Bucknell put the game
out of reach in the third quarter with a play that typified the ball game. The Bisons completed a pass
to their tight end who fumbled at the Davidson 42. But the ball bounced up into the hands of Paul
D'Aloia who ran the remaining distance for the score. The only bright spots in Davidson’s dismal day were a Greg
Hammon interception and a 45-yard average for Wayne Paymer on his eight punts.

S.C. schools vie for trophy

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Davidson and all other Southern Conference schools are going to be on display all year due to the Colonel D.S.
McAlister Sportsmanship Award. According to the inscription on the award, it is presented ‘‘to the institution judged to have exhibited
the highest degree of sportsmanship, ethics, and courtesy among its players, coaches, and spectators in the conduct of its athletic
programs.” Davidson Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill sees the award as ‘‘an attempt to bring intercollegiate competition back to the participants
and students.”

“Collegiate competition has gotten so caught up in winning that we’ve lost sight of the real values of competition,’’ Cartmill
said. ‘‘The Southern Conference as well as other conferences around the country wants to bring things back in focus and
make competition a healthy activity on campus.”

Many factors come into consideration for the McAlister Award. The actions of coaches, players, and spectators at a contest are
important as well as the courtesies and considerations shown. “Davidson ranks high on an S.C. scale,’’ Cartmill said, ‘‘in crowd
deportment and sportsmanship even though we tend to get out of control every now and then at basketball games.’’ He
explained some of the regulations call for the clearance of the endzones at basketball games, which will cause a change
in seating arrangements. Amplifiers will be cut out if they’re not directed toward the stands but at the players, he
explained. “The cheerleaders must excite the crowd—not incite the crowd,’’ Cartmill added.

All the sports sanctioned by the conference will be accountable for the award, which will be awarded for the first
time next spring. The head coach of each sport will receive a checklist of all the conference opposition and will
rate the other schools on their actions and courtesies with a 5-4-3-2-1 scale. The athletic director on each campus will
do a complete evaluation of other institutions before the award is announced. Previously, Dr. Spencer met with athletic officials from
the Davidson campus stressing the importance of the new regulations influencing competition procedures. Various literature

The soccer team plays Marshall on Friday and Furman on Tuesday, both at home. Above Scott Wall and Chuck Price
set up strategy during a recent game.

Soccer team ‘hangs on’ for victory

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

Boom! Mark Elmore rifles in a shot from 25 yards. Boom! Jimmy Hawk rockets in an equally long shot. Boom!
Pete Sluiter blasts a penalty kick into the upper corner. With but fifteen minutes elapsed, Davidson had a 3-0 lead
over Western Carolina Saturday. The Wildcats hung on to win 3-1.

Unfortunately, ‘‘hung on’’ is a good way to describe Davidson’s victory. Granted, Western Carolina has a fine team according to
most sources. But Davidson looked sluggish after their opening barrage of goals. Passes were not being strung together, and the
defense often looked disoriented and found themselves pressed against their own goal. Western, though, capitalized with only a single breakaway
goal. Coack Karl Kremser walked with a little chip shot that caught goalie Mike Tordanou too far out. But late
in the first half, the Wildcats came alive. Jimmy Hawk headed in an incredibly long throw-in by Pete Sluiter to
tie the score. Davidson’s good play carried over into the second half, and substitute Tom SchemberScored a marvelous shot from
the right side that ticked in off the crossbar. Davidson “hung on” again to win 2-1, though this time “hanging
on” involved dominating the field. This time Coach Kremser had better things to say. The soccer team felt a loss
with the resignation of senior co-captain Doug Schuessler last Friday following a season-long disagreement with Coach Kremser. “It was a
matter in which I was faced with no alternative but to offer my resignation.” Davidson showed signs of getting on
track as the offense extended by the host and posters have been used to explain the ‘Code of Spectator Conduct’
as set forth by all the Southern Conference presidents. One of the stipulations in a brochure issued by the Southern
Conference Sports Office says, “Crowd control must be good—no interference with the contest, absence of derogatory banners and cheers, no
debris thrown on the playing area, and the sidelines and endlines cleared of spectators.” An excerpt from this code states,
“The scoreboard will reflect the quality of the teams in the competition; the kind of support given by the spectators
will reveal the character of Southern Conference fans.”

This week Davidson attempts to improve their 1-0 conference record with two Southern Conference home matches. Friday, Davidson plays Marshall,
rescheduled from earlier in the year, and next Tuesday Davidson faces Furman. Both games begin at 3:00 PM. Kevin Robbins
and C.K. Nichols largely reflect the team’s success this year.

A quick scan of the Davidson sports scene for 1979-80 shows what should be the most successful year we've had
for a long time. Many teams have winning records, and the good ones haven’t lost much. Here is a short
directory of our athletics for 1979-80.

Karl Kremser’s SOCCER team has completely turned things around since the 0-17 team of two years ago. A young team
is ready for vast improvement and seems headed for a winning season, with more in store for the future. The
FOOTBALL team has also broken into the win column more often than not this fall. They’re playing a realistic schedule
and have a good shot at seven wins this year. Before Saturday’s game against Bucknell, the club had racked up
more than 450 yards a game with big yardage from both the passing and running game. Hard-running backs Alvin Atkinson,
Craig Pyles, Aaron Rollins, and Ray Sinclair have picked up yardage behind an offensive line many considered to be the
weakness of the team. The starting wall consisting of Matt Auker and Danny Klinar at the tackles, Dave Nichols and
Patrick Pope at the guards, and Dave Donaldson at center is small by college standards but has done well taking
advantage of its superior quickness and agility. The team has several big tests remaining in the season, and the ability
of the front line to meet those challenges will be crucial.

Norm Koller’s CROSS COUNTRY team suffered a few casualties last Saturday in a disappointing loss. But led by Bart Landess,
John Hoots, Danny Armistead, and George Strobel, the harriers are highly competitive again this year. The perennially successful TENNIS team
with Jeff Frank at the helm returns most of its stars. Among them are “Tlie” Gepfert, Harry Griffith, and Nevins
Todd. With the addition of some strong freshmen, the netters hope to challenge for the Southern Conference title come Spring.
The tennis team has several matches scheduled for this fall as well.

The less successful BASKETBALL squad coached by Eddie Biedenbach is going to have to adjust to the loss of their
star player to the New Jersey Nets. The de-Gerdy-ized Cats will rely more on their inside game which will be
greatly aided by the return of forward Rick DiBenedetto. One can count on seeing a more patterned and patient team
and, hopefully, a more successful one.

The powerful SWIM TEAM will be back in full force in 1979-80 and is once again one of the conference’s
top teams. The wrestlers are also optimistic this year with the addition of a new coach and the leadership of
seniors Rob King and med-school bound Mike Garfinkel. The BASEBALL team under the direction of Palmer Muench has a fall
schedule for the first time. It is a young team with no seniors and is looking forward to its first
winning season since 1975. The major loss is at catcher.
