Bonehead back for more

Brick brothers are smaller than stumps

By BONEHEAD and the BRICK BROTHERS

Welcome units to another fine year of useless and offensive reporting. We are Bonehead and the Brick Brothers and you are not, so don’t try to be. Thank you, BB and B.

Many of you may be wondering where Bad Bernard has gone: The word is he graduated and is presently selling John Gerdy T-shirts door-to-door in New Jersey. Bad Bernard reports the money isn’t great, but the fringe benefits make the job worthwhile, and he has met some really nice housewives. He said it is good to be away from Davidson, but he misses all his groupies—especially Sam, Price, Will, and Butch.

With the retirement of Bad Bernard, Bonehead was left with the task of choosing a replacement. Therefore, he devised a special test that was given to the two applicants to ensure that one would be worthy of fulfilling the duty of being famous. He had them spell several tough two-letter words, and these were then taken to Uncle Chuck Cornwell to be graded.

The results were inconclusive and Bonehead, being the kind person that he is, decided to hire both fellows in case one dropped dead. Enter the Brick Brothers. The Brick Brothers are two blockheads that will form the cornerstone of the column this year. When told of his selection Red said, “Well, I guess it might mean something.” Mason was a little more subtle and replied, “It really doesn’t matter to me. I’m bad as hell and you can tell your mother that. We should really try to piss some people off this year.” Congratulations Brick Brothers.

If our readers would like the backstory of the Brick Brothers, just drop a postcard to “The Life of the Brick Brothers, Box 6, Davidson.” Remember to place a ten-cent stamp on the card and get it in by lunch Friday. We will give you one more time to get the address. That’s “The Life of the Brick Brothers, Box 6, Davidson.” Keep those cards and letters coming!

Once again we find ourselves cramped for space in the paper. After a lengthy discussion, we have decided to make a major cut in the amount of women’s reporting this year. One problem is that last year we couldn’t really tell what was going on in Women’s IMAC because we just didn’t care. But, don’t worry, if you women do something really stupid we will be sure to report it. Do us all a favor and don’t forfeit so many games this year.

A note to the freshmints. If you expect to read your name in this column then you must have brain damage. Chuck and Russ might get mentioned occasionally. The rest of you youngsters will probably have terrible flickerball teams. It is a tradition so you might as well accept it. Only the KIWIS, the Hole, and the Tuts have broken this tradition in the past, but that was because they were true competitors. If you freshmints still don’t understand this, then you can go ask your hall counselors.

Now to the flickerball report: Let’s see, hmm, well, there had not been any games and rosters have not been turned in when this went to press. Rumor has it the season opens Sunday with IMAC General Sterling Martin singing the national anthem on Field 1 at six o’clock am. The games will be played at an earlier hour this year so that they will not conflict with Dr. Carroll's chemistry labs.

That’s all the news for now. Next week the Annual Bonehead and Brick Brothers College Flickerball Preview will be introduced. Stay out of our refrigerator, Boa! Later.high hopes
By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

A 9-3-2 record is one worth noting, but, for a field hockey player, it’s still not quite good enough. The loss of four players to graduation—Kirk Cameron, twice a Deep South pick, Margaret Herman, Jamie Watt, and trainer/player Leea Pittenger—leaves the team somewhat weakened. However, with four freshmen, five juniors, and six returning seniors, the level of competition will remain high.

If last weekend is any indication of Davidson’s strength, the team is well on its way to victory. An example of the expected success is the 5-0-1 record in an area tournament sponsored by the University of Richmond. Four of the five wins were shutouts with a total of 13 goals scored. As Coach Roberts said, “The team played over their heads.” The disadvantage of too few players for a full scrimmage has been overcome and the talent, potential, and unity is exemplary of mid-season competition. The group is enthusiastic, dedicated, and psyched to continue the winning streak throughout the 13-game regular season and a victorious end in the state tournament.

The Lady Cats open the home season Sept. 24 against Winthrop. Game time will be 4 p.m.

Cats demolish Catawba
By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats opened their 1979 football season with a resounding 35-7 victory over Catawba last Saturday. The Cats revealed a quick-striking offense which gained 494 yards and a stubborn “rubber band” defense that snapped only once all afternoon.

This Saturday Davidson plays Southwestern of Memphis. Southwestern runs an I-formation offense and averages forty passes a game and a quick-starting 5-2 defense. Kickoff time is 1:30 p.m. at Richardson Field.

Davidson's offense was able to move the ball effectively in the first half against Catawba but was stymied by two interceptions and a fumble at the Davidson 32-yard line. The offense got on the scoreboard as the first half came to a close. A gutsy fourth down slant-in pass from Brian Whitmire to Gifford Piercy netted a touchdown and shifted the momentum in Davidson’s favor as the teams went into the locker rooms.

As the Cats kicked off to open the second half, Jerry Leavitt made a vicious tackle causing a fumble. Lance Sisco recovered, and the offense swept onto the field to take advantage of the break. The Cats weren’t allowed to move so they set up for an apparent field goal. However, holder Al Rhyne took the snap and flipped a screen pass to Alvin Atkinson for a 32-yard score.

The offense then began to churn out yardage at will against the disheartened Catawba defense, and the defense squelched the Catawba offense. The only serious threat Catawba could muster in the second half came near the end. Catawba completed a fifty-yard pass down to the Davidson five. But, on the next play, Rob King forced a Catawba fumble which was recovered to preserve the 35-7 final score.

Leading the Davidson ground attack which totaled 292 yards were Aaron Rollins with 102 yards and Alvin Atkinson with 78. Al Rhyne and Brian Whitmire combined for 202 yards passing. Alvin Atkinson scored three of the touchdowns with others scored by James Jones and Gifford Piercy. Davidson had no penalties in the game.

Starting cornerback Virgil Fludd was injured on a tackle in the first quarter of the game. He suffered a severely pinched nerve and spent the remainder of the weekend in Memorial Hospital. However, he is back at Davidson and, hopefully, making a speedy recovery.

WELCOME BACK “WILDCATS”
Hope you have a good year, and if you left your socks at home, come see us for this and all your clothing needs: Women’s wear, too! Use your automatic charge account at John Mack’s.