2—The Davidsonian—October 26, 1979

SGA hopes to increase communication with Trustees

By KEVIN WHEELOCK
Staff Writer

Each member of a new SGA committee has begun writing once a month to a College Trustee pen-pal. According to
SGA Senator David Waddill, the purpose of the student-Trustee correspondence is to inform Trustees about students’ personal views on College
issues.

Waddill, who originated the committee, said it is composed of 45 students, so each member can correspond with one of
the 45 Trustees. He added that the personal touch of individual letters should encourage the Trustees to write back.

The committee will meet once a month to discuss current issues and decide on the content of the letters. The
first letter, written last week, introduced the students to the Trustees, and each one following will express the students’ personal
convictions on various issues. Waddill said the letters will not be form letters, newsletters, or an expression of a consensus
of student opinion. The letters are, instead, designed to express the writers’ personal opinions.

Waddill said that student response to controversial issues has often taken the form of a flood of letters to the
Trustees. Since Trustees read only a few such letters, many students’ opinions are never considered. According to Committee member John
Butler, the monthly letters would provide Trustees with a recognizable source of student opinion when they are flooded with mail.
Probably, they would at least read their student pen-pals’ opinions in such situations, Butler said. Committee member Stuart Dorsett said
since most Trustees do not have any sons or daughters at Davidson, their main contact with the College is through
the Administration. The committee can thus help the Trustees by providing them with a direct line of contact with students.

Waddill described student response as remarkable. Of the 45 members on the committee, only a few are SGA senators, he
said.

——Arrest——

(Continued from Page 1)
Cook said, “I'd like to see him (Witte) serve some active time.”

Cook said it was the first peeping tom incident reported this year, but there were several last year. “We urge
girls in the basement to close their blinds,” he said.

Richardson residents should push for more lights in the area around the dorm, according to Cook. “We've been trying to
get lights up here since before school started,” he explained.

Cook said that campus security has improved since the Campus Police station was set up two years ago. There are
five sworn-in officers on campus, who have full police powers, including authority to arrest. Plainclothesmen patrol the campus from 7
pm to 3 am.

“Students have lost much less merchandise in thefts since we've been here,” said Cook, “but we're still trying to educate
them to lock their doors.”

——

(Continued from Page 1)

structure is completed, according to Little. If the week-long workshop is successful, a second greenhouse may be built.

Funding for the project, Little said, came from a variety of campus groups, faculty members, and students.

“The Y pledged several hundred dollars, and the Recycling Consortium gave its entire $25 operating budget,” Little said.

“Professors lent tools and materials and Ken Wood and Suzie Summers of the office of Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning
coordinated student involvement, while Sophomore Lynn McClintock convinced Piedmont Salvage of Mooresville to donate $40 worth of lumber.”

Members of Project Light, a part of Huntersville Community Development Association, also helped with the work.

“We're somewhat in the red,” Little added, “and are still soliciting donations.”

The purpose of the week-long workshop is threefold, according to Little. It teaches students how to build a low-cost solar
apparatus, provides an economic benefit for the family whose house is used, and, as a model, shows that a low
or middle-income family can benefit immediately from solar energy. Little said that solar greenhouses can provide up to one-third of
an owner’s winter heating needs. While a solar greenhouse may cost as much as $900, some owners are able to
recoup their investment in 3 years due to rising fuel costs and supplemental income from plant sales.

——

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE DAVIDSONIAN may be obtained by writing:
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
1 year $6 2 years $11

——

WE'D LIKE YOU TO MEET THE MEMBERS OF OUR STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD

Diana Pierce ‘81, Mike Mittelman - Loan Officer, Don Howie - Davidson Branch Manager, Burkley Mann ‘80, John Jackson, Stuart
Dorsett ‘82, and Richard Terry '81.

Our Student Advisory Board members serve as liaisons between you, the students, and Piedmont Bank and they're ready and willing
to answer financial questions such as the following:

Q: “How can a bank help students establish credit and why is it important to do so before graduation?”

A: “A savings account, checking account and/or Master Charge card properly handled are all methods by which credit can be
established. By managing any one of these accounts responsibly, an individual shows that he or she can handle financial matters.
A credit rating is important when someone wants to rent an apartment, buy a car on credit, or even have
a phone installed. Because future creditors will look at past financial records it is important to act responsibly now and
begin to establish good credit.”

Piedmont Bank is the only area bank where, as a student customer, you are entitled to a pre-approved loan. If
you would like some more information on this particular question or if you have other financial questions, please talk with
one of our Student Advisory Board members.

PIEDMONT BANK
MEMBER F.D.I.C.
