Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Never take Charlie Lloyd after lunch or he'll fart you out of the room. The man has no more control over his bowels than his mind. He raves on and on and on about the most inconsequential of things, never coming within a furlong of the subject he’s being paid to discuss. No, this is inaccurate. To say something of this nature would slander one of Davidson’s finest professors. It would be cruel to say this. It would be unfair. It might hurt Lloyd's feelings.

No, to say that Lloyd never comes within a furlong of the subject he’s paid to teach would be wrong. The truth is, he never comes within ten thousand furlongs of the subject he’s paid to teach. In fact, it is possible to sit through an entire course with Mr. Lloyd and not learn one single solitary fact even vaguely related to the subject.

But, in spite of all this, Lloyd is clearly recognized as a great man. Like all great men, he has had to learn to overcome a serious handicap. He wasn’t born deaf. He’s never contracted polio. He’s never lost a leg. Yet he suffers from a handicap so debilitating that it would have sent a lesser man to the rocks years ago. Lloyd is insane. He has bad breath.

Randy Nelson

Randy Nelson is an insufferable ass and a charlatan to boot. He teaches classes in American literature the way a used-car salesman would go about peddling a 20-year-old Edsel. His aim: to get tenure at any cost.

But because he does not deserve tenure, and knows full well he does not deserve tenure, his campaigning for that particular state of bliss (even Dr. Bliss could get tenure) has taken on a rather dastardly character.

Nelson, who is by birth a Mooresville hick, has had the good sense to realize that most Davidson students are much brighter than he is. So his first step is to scout out each year’s freshman class. He tries hard to locate those few mentally-misbegotten wretches who are so stupid he believes even he can teach them something.

Then he begins to work on them. He flatters them. He gets them to take his classes. He tells them they’re Blue. Ignoring the sensible and encouraging the absurd, he tells them their papers are publishable.

Then he sets the final snare to capture good tenure recommendations from his stupid pupils. He lets them into his rather juvenile dream world. With a Jim Jones gleam in his eyes, he tells them how he’s been persecuted and reviled for his ideas. He tells how the scholarly world is out to get him, how it will never publish his stuff no matter how good it is. He turns his pupils into the soldiers of a lost cause.

It’s a really good gimmick, Randy, but it'll never work. You'd just as well go to Mooresville now and get a job teaching volleyball at the junior high school.

Ross

Dr. Ross is an enthusiastic and cheerful professor who will do everything she can to confuse and frustrate her students. An excellent ad-libber, her lectures are interesting if monumentally disorganized. She is always willing to chat with a student about any problems he may have. Always punctual, she always arrives for class at 12:05 (even if it’s a 9:00 class).

English 104, an introduction to Washington Irving’s handwriting, is a survey of Dr. Ross's work with Washington Irving’s notebooks in the New York City Public Library, and other fascinatingly inconsequential topics. It’s an excellent choice for any student who is paranoid about facing grades, or who simply enjoys living in suspense. Dr. Ross mercifully allows every student to go nine weeks without having to face a single grade. It's not that there are no tests or papers, it’s just that since grading is a sideline for Dean Ross, other things tend to take priority over grading papers - hall counselor selection, scholarship selection, mowing her lawn, washing her hair, etc.

Having gone to Queens, which is on the semester system, Dr. Ross is convinced that this is The Only Way, and she suffers from the delusion that Davidson also is on this system.

Congressman Jim Martin receives the Alexander J. McKelway Teaching Award for the second straight year.

She employs the time-honored system of three class meetings per week (with regular extra meetings - over dinner, if necessary - to enable her to cover assigned material). Don’t worry about following the syllabus, it becomes confusing after the third rewrite - and why is it only 8 weeks long?

Ziegler

Ziggy is best known as the reincarnation of Queen Elizabeth. Yet, all her tables at home have stockings on the legs. If you are a member of the male gender, forget about taking her courses.

French

Poe

George Poe is probably one of the most demanding professors at Davidson. Students will find it difficult to meet his attendance requirement, which admonishes that “The student would be well advised to come to class occasionally. But those who fail to show up at all will receive no higher than a B plus.”

Poe also staunchly insists that outside assignments be turned in sometime during the term, and absolutely refuses to allow reviews or finals to be taken after the student’s death.

Students who seriously desire a good knowledge of French culture and language should not let Poe’s difficulty discourage them however. Poe is always ready to show slides to clear up any problems the student might have. His slide collection of knobby trees in Montpellier is probably the world’s largest.

Walker

Hallam Walker clearly suffers from delusions of adequacy. The humanities staff long ago realized this, putting as much distance as possible between the Perkins lectern and his.