April 20, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

BB&B are best undressed

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

The votes are all in and have finally been tabulated in the 1979 Spring Best Dressed IMAC Contest. This year’s team is diverse, but we feel that player for player it is the best we have had in years. Without further ado, we present the best of the best:

1) Bob Avinger -- Old Men -- 209 votes
Bob sports a neat Brooks Brothers seersucker T-shirt and matching navy blue poplin shorts for his Spring softball wear. Topping off his outfit are green linen sport socks and white Gucci cleats. His only weak spot is his failure to wear any headgear, but then, why hide those silver locks?

2) John Gerdy -- 188 lbs. Return of Slack -- 197 votes.
Gerd dons a pair of Foster Grant shades and a GM Truck hat for his warm weather wear. His purple T-shirt reads “Harlem Rucker Inner-City Blues Summer Hoop Tourney,” and he adds a Hawaiian bathing suit and high-top black Chuck Taylors. A six-pack of the Bull finishes off this handsome outfit.

3) Pat Sheridan -- 210 lbs. - Perpetual Perpetrators -- 183 votes.
Pat is by far and away our most unique dresser. He begins his Summer outfit with a red bandanna tied around his head. Blood from a sacrificed lamb covers his chest and an old bicycle chain serves as a necklace. Pat prefers lightweight doctor’s surgical pants cut off just below the knee and black mesh stockings. The New Jersey native tops off this suit with hiking boots and a stick.

4) Craig Pyles -- 195 lbs. - Su Madre -- 127 votes.
For his Spring outdoor wear Craig chooses a sun visor, a red and white warm-up jacket, and black gym shorts. Craig adds a chewed-up straw to his mouth and flip-flops to his feet, and he is ready for any festive occasion.

5) Malcolm Lester -- 170 lbs. - Very Old Men -- 82 votes.
This aristocratic Jeffersonian fashions the more conservative Virginia look. A camel hair batting helmet, a tweed blazer and vest, and fur socks, and, of course, his Phi Beta Kappa key make up this stately outfit.

Several others came close to making this very select team. Those receiving over 50 votes were: Butch, Lou Ortmayer, Captain Crunchy, Bill Peeples, Andy Smith, Skip Brown, and Danny Hock’s Car.

BB & B had a very interesting letter this week from a Mr. Richard E. Finkle of Fort Lee, New Jersey. Mr. Finkle asked, “Who are these guys that call themselves ‘Slack,’ and why do they choose such a strange name?” Mr. Finkle, your question is absurd, you are even more absurd and probably even smell bad, and New Jersey is a terrible place to live. However, we will attempt to answer your question.

The Return of Slack is the number one softball team at Davidson. They call themselves “Slack” because they are lazy farts who sit around all day and drink cheap beer, do even cheaper drugs, and listen to unbelievably poor music. Here is their roster as it was handed into IMAC czar, Sterl “the Pearl” Martin:

Kevin “Tiny” Doherty
Tim Boker
Master Bateman
Dave “Self-proclaimed ‘All World’” Vaughn
Airborn Poindexter
Rich Perkeeey
Earnest Reigeel
Erwin Carter
John Gerdy
Cowvan Anderson
Tom Baker
Bill Barnett
Leonid Brezhnev and Idi Amin

Elsewhere in the world of IMAC sports, MacFleet lost its first game of the year to the above-mentioned derelicts, 9—2. John Ratliff proved once again that he has no business playing IMAC softball or any other sport for that matter. He is an all-around bad athlete, not a very nice person, and what's more we think his red beard is ugly. We would like to say something nice about the rest of the guys on John’s team; they were not as bad as Dave Shi had been claiming they were. They took one on the chin, losing to Bone, 14—6. If the Old Men ever want to win, they need to do the following things:

1) Trade Shi to anyone who will take him. He is a headcase, a terrible player, and has bad breath.
2) Tell Ortmayer the wrong time and place.
3) Teach Avinger the difference between a demand curve and a curveball.
4) Let Kelton catch.
5) Get in the girl’s league.

And now our infamous Top Ten:

1) Return of Slack
2) Su Madre
3) KA
4) MacFleet
5) Four Skins
6) Bone
7) Old Men
8) Perpetual Perpetrators
9) Roots
10) Charlie’s Angels

Later,

Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by . . .

BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925”

M. A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

Ben L. Millsaps
Exec. Vice President & Secretary

He fought wars and won them. He defied Presidents—and might have been one hell of a President himself.

PATTON
8:00 and 10:30
$1.50 or season pass