This weekend against Furman, Gifford Piercy is one reason Davidson can win game number seven. (Brad Kerr) November 2, 1979—The
Davidsonian—7

Wildcats reach for best record

The rushing attack was led by Ray Sinclair with 91 yards, Alvin Atkinson with 72 yards, and Craig Pyles with
70 yards. Al Khyne headed the passing with 199 yards on 12 completions. Atkinson scored three touchdowns, two on runs
and one on a pass. Kevin Hanna turned in several defensive gems as he intercepted two passes and returned one
of them for a touchdown.

By DAVE DONALDSON
Staff Writer

Last Saturday night, the Wildcats became the first Wildcat gridders since 1969 to have a winning year. Davidson’s sixth win
(6-2 for the season) came over the Guilford Quakers 40-16 in an emotional, hard-hitting game in Greensboro. This Saturday, the
‘Cats will attempt to become only the third team in the school’s history to win seven games. The Furman Paladins
visit Davidson in what will be the seniors’ last home appearance. Also, a reunion is scheduled for the 1969 Tangerine
Bowl team, and special activities are planned. Kickoff time is 2:00 at Richardson Field.

Davidson unleashed a balanced attack in smashing Guilford. The ‘Cats flooded the airways with 212 yards and trampled the Quakers
for another 212 yards on the ground.

Wrestlers prepare for winter season

By ROB MOORE
Staff Writer

Davidson's wrestling team has begun its preseason drills in preparation for a year that includes many formidable Southern Conference foes.
Senior Co-Captains Mike Garfinkel and Rob King will head a team whose season begins Nov. 30 in the Catawba wrestling
tournament.

"It's kind of tough to predict anything right now," commented coach Estock. "We still have to see who we get
after football season.” However, the wrestling team does have some returnees already working out with the team. Sophomore Scott Smith,
a returning letterman from last year, is a promising prospect who will probably be wrestling in the 142 lb. weight
class. Dave Nichols and Pat McKenzie will also add experience to the team. Incoming freshmen who could also help the
team are Boe Young, Van Wagnor, Scott Campbell, and Jim Brotherton. Junior Dave Hopkins and senior Greg Peters are also
out this year for the first time.

The team has mainly concerned itself with conditioning, weightlifting, and basic wrestling fundamentals thus far this season. This will lead
them into demanding workouts before the season begins. Estock stated that one of his central goals this season is increased
participation in the wrestling program. "We're trying to get as many people involved as possible. We’re looking for young men
who want to learn some skills and are willing to work hard. We want to get all the young people
possible and build around experience."

When asked what the team’s number one goal was, Estock replied, “I think it would be great to have some
first-place winners in the Southern Conference Tournament.”

If it is possible to smile at three losses, the Davidson soccer team may have that satisfaction. A team that
has been plagued with poor play as of late, the Wildcats can at least take heart in playing much better
soccer last week despite coming up short in the score.

Last Wednesday, the soccer team traveled to Boone for a night game with mighty Appalachian State. As usual, the Mountaineers
were awesome and have a national ranking to prove their power, yet the Wildcats held App. State to two goals
in the first half before falling to the inevitable 7-0 score. The game was extremely rough. Bill Wahl and Mike
Iordanov went down with injuries, and Jimmy Hawk was ejected from the game. In consolation, App. State’s coach exclaimed that
it was by far their best performance of the year, including those against other nationally ranked clubs. He praised Davidson’s
tenacity.

Saturday, Davidson ran into an excellent Emory squad in a home match. Even though several fights erupted, Coach Farrell was
happy the Cats "finally played an emotional game." He added, "It was nice to avoid all those costly turnovers for
a change." Kremser said, “We just can't get the ball in the goal.” Emory scored on three breakaways, due in
part to the entire Davidson team pushing up to help create offense. Todd Lambert did score a beautiful running goal
off a perfect lead chip from Scott Wall. The final 3-1 score was no indication of Davidson's spirited play.

Tuesday night, Davidson traveled to Charleston for a Southern Conference match with the Citadel. Kremser called it one of the
squad’s “best efforts” despite losing 2-1. The Citadel, undefeated in Conference play, came back from a 1-0 deficit after Bill
Wahl’s long 30-yard shot by scoring on two set plays after penalties. The encouraging fact was the Wildcats never gave
up and battled until the final whistle. The Wildcats finish their season this week with two weekend road matches—Friday at
Wofford and Sunday.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

at UT-Chattanooga—and climax with the University of North Carolina at home Wednesday. Bonehead and Brick Brothers attempt to explain IMAC
scheduling By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS Greetings Davidsonians, welcome to another issue of Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. We
have lots of good things for you this week and we will start everything off with a short epistle from
a couple of freshmen. Close your eyes and enjoy the experience.

Dear Bonehead and the Brick Brothers,

Me and Marvin were sitting under an apple tree and we were thinking how amazing it was that Born to
Run had gone through the season with an unblemished record. We were surprised how a team with no athletes or
any semblance of organization could possibly do so well. Also, our freshman hall that had a winless regular season record
only lost to them 14-13, while losing to other juggernauts like SAE, KA, and Hurtin 4 Certin by scores like
56-3, 1000-7, 83-3. Our hall counselors told us that we would play B league in basketball, but we thought the
flickerball divisions were supposed to be equal. How can there be a division with no competitive teams? We heard a
rumor that the person who set up the divisions is a card-carrying Born to Run member. Is it not also
true that this same person who last year merely held for kickoffs for Ruskellar, is now a dynamic part of
the Born to Run offense? What has happened to integrity and the honor code? Just because one is a non-paid
hardworking commissioner, does it give one the license to manipulate the IMAC scheduling? What Godless atheism! We would like to
commend B&BB for leaving this peripatetic team out of the Top 5. We also think it would be a moral
injustice of the highest magnitude to include Born to Run in the same breath as such flickerball powers as SAE,
KA, and Hurtin 4 Certin. Also, we know you are busy, but we'd like you guys to come speak at
one of our hall meetings. Thank you.

Signed, Stuart Wicker

Dear Stuart,

We agree with your sentiment and would like to edify everyone concerning the history of IMAC front office corruption. The
stink began way back in 1882 when IMAC tsar Woody Wilson's team (coincidentally named Born to Run) made it to
the flickerball finals after three early round byes. Al Capone at the University of Chicago was known to force games
to go into overtime until his team managed to get ahead. Tailback Benedict Arnold once transferred the night before a
championship game at William and Mary to lead one of Oxford's fraternities (the SPE’s) to a world title. Also, in
one of the most infamous games in North Carolina flickerball history, Dick Nixon's Duke law team edged Cora Nelson's UNC
Delta Delta Delta team after benefitting from an illegal crackback block by Nixon.

In semifinal action played yesterday, the KA’s won against the Wild Ones, SAE will do battle with the Old Men,
Hurtin 4 Certin meets the Yachting Club, and the Born to Run squad takes on the Caribou Lips. The story
of the tournament has been the peripatetic Yachting Club who hadn’t won a game all season before destroying the estranged
Warks 62-36. The inexperienced Y.C.'s experienced flickerball Nirvana in scoring more points than they'd scored the entire season. John Davis
delivered the Gettysburg Address following the triumph. Hurtin 4 Certin walked over Reckless Abandon 59-19 to make double elimination. The
Old Men showed the world where the PIKA's belong 58-19. The SAE's dealt all over Brian Kelleher's hall 45-0. Born
to Run edged the SPE's in a hotly contested game. "It could have gone either way," said SPE Will Flanagan.
But the ridiculously overrated Born to Run team did prevail. Hill "Venuto" Stockton led the KA's past Single Bullet Theory
72-32. "Garo" Dominick had his first chance to kick and kicked a perfect twenty central, earning a spot on the
bench.

In the Women’s league, Almost Heaven trounced Rusk 33-0 in a forfeit. Why Not Twice beat US 6-0 without the
help of their two injured Hall Counselors. Marni said, “It doesn't even matter.” Later.

Top 10
1. SAE
2. Hurtin 4 Certin
3. KA
4. Harry's and Barry's
5. Old Men
6. Caribou Lips
7. Born to Run
8. Longitudinal Forces
9. East Men
10. Warks

Correction: The stink began way back in 1882 when IMAC tsar Woody Wilson's team (coincidentally named Born to Run) made
it to the flickerball finals after three early round byes. But flickerball has been marred by corruption nearly everywhere it's
been played. Al Capone at the University of Chicago was known to force games to go into overtime until his
team managed to get ahead. Tailback Benedict Arnold once transferred the night before a championship game at William and Mary
to lead one of Oxford's fraternities (the SPE’s) to a world title.
