= Included at Ove! February 2, 1979

10—The Davidsonian

LAPSYS

the findings. We asked the 1,300 member student body eight questions, and here are the responses:

1) How did you first learn about Davidson?

a) my dad went there—63 percent

d) I noticed the Davidson College sign on I-77 while driving by—14 percent

e) From Coach Kochan—1 percent

2) What made you decide to come to Davidson?

a) I liked the academics—54 percent

c) I wanted to watch John Gerdy play ball—26 percent

d) My dad made me—8 percent

e) I liked the shrubbery—8 percent

3) What are your biggest complaints about life at Davidson?

d) it depends—2 percent

e) I don’t have any friends—28 percent

4) What do you like about Davidson?

b) Writing short papers—3 percent

5) What has been your favorite class at Davidson?

a) Faith of Israel with Dr. Thomas Clark—25 percent

b) Christianity and Art—35 percent

c) Icon Seminar with the T-Bird—15 percent

d) Isotopes and their native origins—13 percent

e) Independent Study in Religion with you know who—12 percent

6) What is the most meaningful thing you have learned at Davidson?

a) To always read the introductions, the bold-faced words, and the italics, and to always find spots for the tests—43 percent

b) To never drink bong water, even if I’m real thirsty—2 percent

c) Don’t mix ARA food and illegal drugs—30 percent

d) Don’t take Humes, Chem 41, and Math 26 first term—25 percent

We also found out some other interesting things about the survey results. There was a fairly large number of students living in tents and small huts in the woods surrounding the campus.

In a game that was poorly officiated, Kirk Combe had 17 for the winners and Dave Jones and Vince Parker were tough on the boards. Bye and the SAE’s are the only two remaining undefeated teams in the League.

The E-Baggers did not see action last week as IMAC Rat forgot they were in the League. The Excitable Boys were upset by the Wagon Hoers, 65-63, when Bill Sheerwood and Powell Slaughter forgot they had a game. Minor Sinclair had 27 points in a sterling performance and was named All-World shortly after the game by IMAC Rat.

Sinclair also had 23 points earlier in the week when Wagon Ho edged out Five Easy Pieces, 61-55. In other games, the Old Men ran past 1st Baptist B-Team, 78-58, the Excitable Boys knocked off Cool Breeze, 68-45, (K. Doherty had 26 in that win), and Van Halen got 21 points from Jim Evans to excommunicate the Baptist B-Team, 50-40.

Here's the BB&B revised Top Ten:

1) SAE

2) Bye

3) Excitable Boys

4) Old Men

5) Wagon Ho

6) Cool Breeze

7) Bonecrushers

8) The Hole

9) Hurtin for Certain

10) The Surrogate Mothers

Later. Don't get off—stay off.

Davidson trails Southern Conference

After six conference games, the Wildcats trail the Southern Conference, losing two games each to Furman and Appalachian and one to Marshall. Davidson's only conference victory has been against The Citadel.

Silly Rabbits beat the Bops

The Silly Rabbits had an arduous 33-10 win over the Bops. Barb Ashley was high scorer with eighteen points. In earlier action, the Rabbits crushed the Amazing Greys before they forfeited out. Angie Horn and Debbie Bland each had 10 points for the Bops in the 33-10 win.

In Division II the showdown will come when the Penthouse Rowdies play Twice as Nice later this week. Twice as Nice has been scoring higher than the Rowdies, but it will no doubt be a close contest. The Rowdies defeated Ruskeller 21-12, with Ann Clark scoring all 12 points for the losers.

ORDER NOW FOR VALENTINE'S DAY!!

“Love comes in many ways, In lover’s arms, And sweet bouquets.”

FLOWER CART FLORIST

Order Early! Wires must be sent now!