For Graduation Give Teakwood

Durable. Beautiful. Once the backbone of great sailing ships. Today, it glides smoothly across seas of handsome Hallmark writing instruments in the Executive Timber line.

$30.00 the set / $15.00 single

- Elegant writing instruments in luxurious natural woods.
- Tailored stationery for his writing needs.
- Gift books
- Custom Framing
- Art, Office, School Supplies

Etchings by Christopher Forrest for 1 week only.

(Continued from page 1)

The theft was discovered around 6:40 a.m. by a patrolling town policeman, who said it probably happened between 3 a.m. and 6 a.m. “The thing that bothers me here is the time span—I can’t see how it takes three hours to get to patrol Main Street,” he said.

He said no leads were known.

May 11, 1970—The Davidsonian—11

Theft

(Continued from page 1)

majors for example—and people who are motivated to write by their great concern for college issues.

Also, to add to the depth of the staff, Durden wants to make use of “student experts,” writers who would not be regular staff but would occasionally express a “special concern” in the Davidsonian. She pointed out that “our staff should not be so exclusive.”

—Professors—

(Continued from page 1)

graduate school. Wellnitz points to his professors’ attitudes as part of the problem.

“They had a very naive notion of what the job market was like,” Wellnitz said of his former professors. “Their attitude was one of ‘the best people will always be able to get jobs.’ This is a fairly prevalent attitude among the somewhat prestigious graduate schools. What people don’t realize is that there are entirely too many PhD’s being produced in the sciences.”

One-year contracts are one way that colleges and universities are dealing with this problem. “One-year contracts have a lot of far-reaching implications,” stated Hlibstchuk. “They will attract a lot of people.”

Hlibstchuk is leaving teaching and going back to school to get her PhD. Garrett has accepted a one-year position here at Davidson to help with a chemistry project.

They may not have a varsity team yet, but they get the point.

Durden

(Gregg Strader)

Indeed, Durden stressed the importance of a diverse staff, one active in and representative of the Davidson community. She wants to avoid a staff composed of just “Davidsonian nerds,” writers whose activities within the Davidson community begin and end with the newspaper. She feels that active writers are more knowledgeable of the community.

Describing the present staff, she said, “Reporters have to be smart and thoughtful people, and I see that they (the present staffers) are. The reason that their articles are not always thoughtful is one of tradition.”

She added that with better editorial leadership past practices can be changed.

Durden also mentioned better planning as a means of improving the quality of the Davidsonian. “Time is a big factor,” she said. “The sooner an article can be done, the sooner you (the editors) can do what needs to be done with it.” Durden has already outlined two of her editorials for the fall. She also plans to use the summer to work on the paper—“forty hours a week is a realistic expectation.”

They will not sing in either of the two.