October 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

The consistent running of Alvin Atkinson has been a Wildcat plus.

for Campus wear

Bass Weejuns
Dunham Hike Shoes
Bostonian Casuals
and others

come see our clothes

especially good for campus

DOWNTOWN MOORESVILLE

Wildcats wallop Hampden-Sydney

By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

Davidson blasted Hampden-Sydney 42-0 last Saturday to run their season record to five wins and two losses. A balanced offensive
attack and a hard-nosed defense paced the win against the overmatched Tigers.

Guilford awaits Davidson this week in a very important contest. A win would ensure the Cats of their first winning
season since 1969, when Davidson was the Southern Conference champion and played in the Tangerine Bowl. An added incentive is
Guilford’s 42-35 upset victory over Davidson last year in Charlotte.

“They feel that their program is very comparable to ours,” says Coach Ed Farrell, “I tend to disagree.”

If the Wildcats win Saturday, they will join an elite group of Davidson football teams—only one third of the teams
have had winning records. Only two teams have won seven games, and no team has ever won eight. One of
the team’s preseason goals was to be the best team Davidson has ever had. Kickoff time for hopeful win number
six at Greensboro is 7:30 pm, Saturday.

Last Saturday, Davidson scored on the third play of the game, then exploded for 28 second-quarter points. Reserves played the
majority of the second half as the Cats added a third-quarter touchdown to bring the final slate to 42-0. Ray
Sinclair ran for 75 yards and Alvin Atkinson added 70 to pace an offensive attack that totaled 366 yards. Gifford
Piercy caught two touchdown passes from Al Rhyne. Tom Trahey, Atkinson, Sinclair, and Aaron Rollins also added touchdowns.

The “rubber band” defense strummed along as they held Hampden-Sydney to only 147 total yards and intercepted four passes.

Soccer loses: fourth in row

By TED JONES
Staff Writer

The Davidson soccer team took another game on the nose. Friday the Wildcats took on winless VMI and came up
on the short end of the 2-1 score.

Davidson opened with a strong first half, and scored the only goal in the first 45 minutes. Mark Elmore scored
the goal, a penalty shot that caught the Keydet’s All-Southern Conference goalie diving the wrong way.

Unfortunately, as the team has exhibited in past games, the Wildcats were unable to generate any kind of consistent play.
The gaps between the front line, midfielders, and defense grew wider and wider and Davidson's usually good passing game never
materialized.

VMI scored two embarrassing second-half goals. The first came on a direct kick just outside the penalty area. Several players
made fake runs over the ball, pulling goalie Mike Iorodanou off the line. The shot was chipped over the four-man
wall and Iorodanou for the score.

The second goal was a soccer rarity. On a VMI corner kick, Iorodanou lost the cross in the sun. The
ball sailed untouched into the goal for the game’s final tally.

Davidson dominated the game for the most part, but was unable to get the ball into the goal. Bill Wahl
narrowly missed a header in the closing minutes, one of many golden opportunities that the Wildcats were not quite able
to take advantage of.

The soccer team finds itself in a slump, having lost four games in a row. Several players mentioned that the
team may have taken VMI for granted. The Keydets were a 6-0 victim to Davidson earlier this season. Another player
cited a possible factor being a lack of team leadership, likely stemming from the recent resignations of three senior players.

Davidson attempted to get back on track last night (Wednesday) with a game against nationally-ranked Appalachian State on the Mountaineer's
astroturf field. Other games this week are a home match against Emory Saturday at 2 and an away game Tuesday
night against The Citadel.
