By HAROLD LLOYD
Special to The Davidsonian

A complete knowledge of anything must include a synthesis of the object as viewed from within and as viewed from without. In the case of Davidson, the constant influx of visitors and dignitaries provides the latter; yet the former remains incomplete, for our inside views of Davidson come from only half the community. In spite of claims to the contrary, a rift still lies sinuous across Davidson. For those who deny such a claim, a mere crossing of the railroad tracks and an explanation of the web of roads behind them should convince such persons of their error.

Dismayed at this gap in our knowledge, I crossed the railroad tracks one day to visit an elderly man (his name I need not mention) who has spent over eighty years living and working for the College. We sat on his unpainted porch and talked, no longer surrounded by columns and buildings and manicured lawns, but rather by crowded houses and children playing in the streets. His alert eyes bounced about his old face as he began to speak of the old days. What he said may not be entirely accurate historically, for the mind often jumbles the memories. But that remains unimportant, for if one desires bare facts the library is a better source. Rather, I wanted the reflections, thoughts, and memories of a person, of one of those who has dedicated his life to manual labor at Davidson and who has remained unpraised.

As we sat on the little porch with the spring breeze rustling our clothes, the old man began to speak: his eyes became locked in a distant stare. "Oh yes, yes sir," he began, "I remember when there was nothing at all for old Davidson, nothing at all but a few buildings set in a field of weeds. In fact, the weeds grew so tall that it was almost impossible for a man to walk at times. No, no, they didn’t used to keep the grass clipped short like they do now. No sir. The weeds were cut back only once a year - at commencement. That’s right, only once a year. They didn’t have no big tractors and things like they got now. No, they used to cut the grass with a mule. A fellow would hitch an old mule up to a big old plow-like thing and then he’d run it up and down the field. Yeah, I’ve handled many a horse in my time. Those boys went to no ends at commencements, they did ’em right. They marched in wearing gowns and caps and they did ’em right.

"Of course, now, at that time there weren’t no lights on campus, so it got pretty hard to move around sometimes at dark. But it wasn’t that awful bad since you was used to it then. For you could always see just far enough in front of you so as you wouldn’t trip over nobody else. Now, don’t get me wrong, for I don’t mean there weren't no lights in town at all. The..."dorms had good lights in ’em. Especially that Georgia dorm. Yeah, old Georgia, she used to sit between where Cannon and Watts now sit and everybody wanted to live in Georgia. Mostly the richest kids used to live there; they always tried to get in. They used to always chase me down to wash their socks for ’em. Yeah, they all had money and they all got good jobs; you could get most any job with a record from here. And that place had a funny set of stairs. Of course, Main Street had a row of lights, too. I used to change them old lights. You had to turn a crank to let down the shaft, and then, all you had to do was reach in and change the lights.

Now they didn’t have no pavement in town then, neither. The roads was mud and, boy, was they a mess. They used to lay out planks for walkways so’s you could walk without sinkin’ in the mud. Course, them muddy streets got a lot of action, especially when those boys would bring up girls for the weekends. You never seen so many girls that come from most anywhere. And the boys would dress up and parade their women up Main Street. And them boys always had good clothes. Yes sir, they didn’t wear no rags or torn shoes. No, yes sir, old Davidson, she's been blessed.

I seen old Chambers, too, when she burned down. I think it was a Sunday morning. Yes sir, what a fire! I remember it started at the top, around the dome. A group of boys used to live up there called “Beta Phi.” They used to get me to come up and clean up for ’em. Now, I don’t think nobody ever knowed what started that fire. Seems like somebody said one time that somebody may have been playing with some coal or something up in that dome, but nobody knowed for sure. But that blaze, it was a big one. I heard tell it could be seen all the way to Charlotte. And it smoldered for several days. Yeah, for several days. Of course, nobody was hurt. Somebody got up and rung and rung that bell till all the boys got out. Of course, there was nothing we could do but sit and watch it burn. After the fire, they built barracks for the boys where the library is now.

Yeah, times have moved along. Them boys, they had to work hard and if they didn’t do the work, they got out. And I used to help ’em all I could. I cleaned their socks and pressed their clothes and I packed many a trunk on a wagon. Yes sir, old Davidson, she’s been blessed.

At those words, I parted; it was time for the old man’s dinner. I dodged children as I walked down the narrow street and climbed the road to the depot. Rounding the curve, I entered the other Davidson, the one with the columned buildings and the Christian commitment to treating one’s neighbors as oneself.