THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South's Foremost College Weekly

Volume LXVIII, Number 20
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., Friday, April 6, 1979.

College Trustees deny professors 10% salary raise
By KIRBY OWEN, Staff Writer

After postponing the decision for over a month, the College Trustees did not approve the faculty's request for a ten percent salary increase at their special meeting Saturday. Instead, they provided for an overall salary increase of seven percent. The increase was within President Carter's guidelines for wage and price stability.

“It seems neither wise nor desirable to break with the rest of the educational community and openly defy President Carter's program... Davidson has a duty to promote both exemplary citizenship and scholarship,” according to a Trustee statement issued to the faculty.

Professor Brown Patterson, chairman of the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC), said, “We'd asked for ten percent, so we're very disappointed. With an inflation rate of nine percent, we're continuing to lose ground.”

Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann noted, “It does seem as if inflation will be higher than predicted, but in terms of other small private colleges, our scales are very competitive. There are certain advantages to Davidson that aren't calculated in the official compensation rate, such as housing, summer research money, etc.”

Patterson admitted Davidson salaries are competitive, but, “We're not at the top of our list," he said. He argued that Davidson's competition for students is not with small northern liberal arts colleges but with Duke, Chapel Hill, and Wake Forest, who are “all ahead of us in faculty compensation,” he said. “When these institutions bid for the same faculty members as we do, they can offer them a higher salary,” he said.

Zimmermann pointed out that the Trustees have four ways to provide for faculty salary increases. First, income from Davidson's endowment can be increased through better management. Second, tuition can be increased. Third, money from gifts can be increased by raising the goals for Living Endowment. And fourth, the Division I basketball program can be eliminated. Commenting on the fourth option, “The Trustees have determined that the effort to regain national prominence in basketball is to continue; hoping that if the team becomes successful, gate revenues will pay for the program.”

Junior Sylvia Gordon discovers that slate always gets wet when it rains in the spring.

Burts wraps red tape around policy; $200 deposit required for re-entry
By MARK BARRETT, Asst. News Editor

Students choosing to leave Davidson before they graduate may find it a little harder to get back in. According to Registrar Richard Burts, students leaving the College temporarily will either have to pay a $200 deposit or reapply. They may also not be able to return in the fall term. The changes, which tighten former “stopping procedures,” were made by an ad hoc committee of administrators in late March.

Beginning immediately, students who decide to take off from Davidson will have to pay a $200 deposit to reserve a place for them when they return, Burts said. In the past, no deposit was required. The other change dictates that students whose leave begins with a spring or winter term will be allowed to return to Davidson only at the beginning of a spring or winter term. Students whose leaves begin with fall terms will still be free to return when they wish. Before, all students on leave were allowed to end their leave when they wanted. Students will still be required to specify which term they will (See Burts, page 7)

Self-scheduling here to stay
Faculty passes all recommendations with only minor changes in wording
By JIM GARRETT, News Editor

With “no opposition” Tuesday, faculty members granted approval of self-scheduled exams with minor administrative stipulations, according to Academic Affairs Vice-President Price Zimmermann. Zimmermann said faculty approval was based on “evidence that students take self-scheduling and the Honor Code quite seriously.” He added, “faculty members were influenced by student participation and recommitment to do what is necessary to make self-scheduled exams work: That is, not cheating, and turning in offenders.”

Five major administrative stipulations were approved by the faculty. First, all exams must be given on days designated as exam days. Second,Individual faculty members are authorized to distribute and collect their own exams if they so please. Third, the Registrar will continue to distribute and collect exams as in the past. Fourth, all special exams requiring audio-visual equipment must be authorized by the Dean of Faculty, and fifth, a complete re-evaluation of self-scheduling is planned for the fall of 1981. Zimmermann noted that “for self-scheduled exams to work the context must include a vigorous Honor Code.” “With student commitment and significant faculty approval, self-scheduled exams have great educational merit,” he added. This is the first time that the self-scheduled exam system has actually been approved by the faculty since it was started experimentally eight years ago. The faculty's decision to approve the self-scheduled exam system ends a two-month-long controversy. Students showed their concern by attending a series of forums and open ends on the matter. Earlier, the faculty defeated a proposal which would have allowed professors to schedule their own exams without having to first get permission from the Dean of Faculty, Academic Vice-President Zimmermann.

Tentative site for Commons
By JIM GARRETT
News Editor

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze erased doubt over the location of the campus commons when he announced recently that it will definitely be located where Richards and Bailey are now. “This is the ideal site for the Commons,” Meetze said, but added, “We must begin by relocating Richards and Bailey, as well as the power lines running across Patterson Court.” Bailey and Richards are to be moved this summer so that construction of the Commons can begin next fall. Bailey will be relocated between F & M and ETC while Richards will be relocated between Rusk and PAX. “Renovation of the land between F & M and ETC and between Rusk and PAX is our first concern,” said Meetze. Both Richards and Bailey will be available for next year’s incoming freshmen in their new locations, according to Meetze. He noted that the power lines will be relocated north of Patterson Court to allow for the new Commons. (See Commons, page 7)

Many middle-income students now eligible for federal education grants
By MARK HESS
Asst. Executive Editor
and PETER HUX
Staff Writer

The Carter Administration and Congress have reacted to the rising costs of a college education. At the close of its second session, the 95th Congress passed the Middle Income Student Assistance Act (MISAA), a bill increasing the eligibility of many students to receive the various forms of student assistance. Kathleen Stevenson, Assistant Director of Financial Aid at Davidson, stated, “the bill was in response to the awareness by Congress that middle-income families need attention.” From 1967 to 1976 the average cost of a college education rose 77 percent, a jump so high that many middle-income families now lack the resources necessary for their child’s college education. The 1.46 billion dollar student benefit package passed by Congress would increase money now available by some 3.8 billion to 5.2 billion dollars, an increase of 40 percent. This money would provide Basic Educational Opportunity Grants (BEOGs) to 3.1 million additional students and guarantee a $250 grant to 2.8 million students whose families earn between $16,000 and $25,000 annually. The bill will also aid the College Work-Study Program. The additional funds will provide work opportunities for students, raising the total to over one million students. Of this million, about 380,000 will be from families above the $16,000 income level. The Act also affected the Guaranteed Student Loan Program. Seventy million dollars is earmarked to provide expanded eligibility for guaranteed loans to families in the $16,000 to $45,000 income range. HEW Secretary Joseph A. Califano, Jr., stated, “President Carter is committed to increasing student financial aid for middle-income families with children in college.” Stevenson did not know exactly how many Davidson students would be affected by the bill. However, she stated students would be informed of the changes and applications for the BEOGs would be made available.