By JEFF McARN
Staff Writer

Faint peals of nervous laughter resound above the dull creak of wagon wheels pushing their way through the muddy route
south. The two old buckskin horses, heaving against the leather harnessing, come closer into view. They are almost to Huntersville
and have just begun to foam around their mouths. The young men in the wagon are also sweating in the
humid night air, but they make a much merrier scene than do the stumbling pair of geldings.

“To Charlotte, to Charlotte, to Charlotte,” they sway and chant.

Two hours before, their heartbeats were quicker as they snuck illegally off the Davidson College campus and stole into the
night down to Cornelius where Mr. Ben Beale’s Taxi Service awaited them with the horses.

Horses had always been a vital part of Davidson life. The Ben Beale’s taxi was the sole means of escape
for this bunch of Davidson rowdies. For them, the two old buckskins surely represented salvation from a lingering death by
smothering academia. After all, Davidson at the turn of the century was not so different from Davidson today; there was,
even then, little to do on campus but study.

Horses, therefore, were crucial not only to escapees from campus, but also to activities, such as they were, on campus.
Think of a big weekend like commencement without any horses and buggies to rent. You and your date could always
study an Organic Chemistry book.

There are stories of olden Davidson when students, looking for a change of pace, would pay a visit to Chambers
on horseback. Taking advantage of the fact that the main hall of the old Chambers building was level with the
ground, the students would mount and spill bloody screams as they charged at a full clip down the length of
the hall. The validity of the story, and hence the glamour of the horse, is enhanced upon the observation that
the main hall of new Chambers was shrewdly built above ground level.

Horses, perhaps more than any other one thing, dominated the life of the Davidson community in those days. Miss Johnsie
Shelton says that her family had only one enlarged photograph in their old Victorian house on Concord Road. That was
a photograph of Belle, not the great-grandmother, daughter of the American Revolution, but one of the family horses.

There were, of course, livery stables all over Davidson to handle the horses. Main Street, Davidson has entertained some three
or four stables, probably on back lots off the street. One of these was located somewhere behind the Carolina Inn
which probably served the horses of such horsemen as the apple traders pictured above. Town stables would work closely with
the needs of Davidson students. On occasions where horses and rigs for the use of the students were needed, they
were provided. (Somewhat similar are big weekends of today—beasts are still imported but they rarely provide the weekend entertainment of
pulling a Big behind them.)

But then came the exciting horseless carriage and the horse climbed into the backseat. Miss Johnsie says that people even
called up the doctor just to see his new car when he came to make the house call. For some
sixty years since that time, the Davidson remembrance of the horse has been limited to Swiftian Houyhnhnms and Hollywood's Mr.
Ed.

Beginning with last year, the organic ideal of a community mobilized by horse power, horse power that is, in single
denominations, has been revived. It is only through the efforts of Mr. Jim Howard that students have access to first-rate
facilities. The barn and ring area are spacious pastures and woods covered with riding trails. Mr. Howard has given Davidson
free use of these facilities.

Life at the barn is carefully regulated by the able-bodied horse buff Ms. Cathleen Case. Every morning Cathleen treats the
horses to breakfast in bed (i.e., in stall) then leads them out into the pastures to romp and graze at
will. In the afternoon, the stalls are de-gooped by students who are instructors of P.E. classes in horseback riding, and
a new group of students will enter the instructors’ class, perpetuating the tradition. All thirteen stalls are occupied; everyone is
fed, hayed, and watered. There is peace.

Things were not so peaceful last year when Wendy, a horse purchased from a nearby owner, was strangely weak and
gaunt despite eating normal doses of grain and hay. Time passed, and Wendy remained weak and gaunt.

In the spring of that year, a local blacksmith was hired to shoe the horses on hand at the barn.
He had worked through all the other horses with no problems. Wendy, however, even in her reduced state, refused to
be bothered. The smith was helplessly trying to tack on a hind shoe when he called for the hired feeder
to see. “What’s that sticking out over there?” Minutes later, under emergency veterinarian care, a new foal followed his protruding
front hoof out of the mother’s womb.

While our Davidson predecessors may chuckle in their graves at our inexperience, they must feel some warmth in our recognition
of an era gone by—the reign of the horse over Davidson.
