THE DAVIDSONIAN
Volume LXIX, Number 8
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Ligo wants to use original, modern design for new student housing
By TOM ROTH
Staff Writer

Art Professor Larry Ligo is angry. The Administration has approved designs for two new dormitories without giving the community a chance to examine them, Ligo charges. Ligo said, "Architecture is capable of shaping the psyche of people who experience it. Thus if it is to broaden one’s mind, it must fit the style of its viewers’ time as well as it reflects past styles."

Seven years ago, when planning the construction of a new dorm, the College commissioned internationally acclaimed architect Paul Rudolph to design them. Those plans were cancelled due to the cost of construction, according to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze. When plans for more dormitories were recently proposed, the administration commissioned Little and Associates of Charlotte, architects of the new Commons, to design them, according to Meetze. This decision was the immediate cause of Ligo’s "disappointment."

In 1972, a committee of administrators, faculty members, and students chose Paul Rudolph to design the dorm after examining many architects, Ligo said. Rudolph’s work at the time cost the College $10,000-$50,000, Ligo said. The reasons given by Dean Will Terry for rejecting the Rudolph plans included the great size of the dormitory, a desire to build dorms that could be converted into apartments, and the high cost of the Rudolph building. Ligo feels that the Rudolph building can be built on a smaller scale. Rudolph’s plans provided housing for two hundred students. The design called for an unspecified number of 40-student units connected end-to-end. Each three-story unit had twenty bedrooms and a half-sunken living area. Since each unit is independent of the others, one could build housing for as many multiples of 40 as are desired, Ligo said. Rudolph’s project architect, Jim Brown, confirmed this arrangement.

Meetze said he prefers the 4-5 room clusters similar to those in Duke dormitory. The Little plan calls for two, two-story dorms that would house 52 students each. Each dorm would have four clusters and a lounge on both floors. Terry and Meetze feel that the Rudolph plans lack the flexibility to be converted into apartments, a possibility if College enrollment should fall sharply. Ligo believes conversion would be possible if the design were changed slightly before construction. Brown said that conversion of the present plans would be extremely difficult but that a simple design change would make it feasible. Terry, Meetze, and Ligo all agree that the Little plans are much easier to convert to apartments.

(See Architecture, page 2)

Driving a white Corvair
YMCA step tutors Carol Rokouen and Sarah Womack frolic with their students at Monday's pumpkin carving and picnic. Robinson has also just been named a Watson Fellowship nominee. See story, page 3. (Taine Alison)

Reports of alleged child molester worry local parents
By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

Rumors have been spreading through Davidson and the surrounding area about reports of a child molester who had yet to be spotted by authorities. According to Davidson Police Chief R.H. Mills, three reports have been received of a man who is driving a small, white Corvair, and who fits the description of a man who is wanted in the killing of a young girl in Charlotte. Mills has received the reports from three young girls of elementary school age within a seven-mile radius of Davidson. The man has tried to lure each girl into his car.

Self-selection interest requirements established
By BILL PEEPLES
Executive Editor

Self-selection may become a more difficult process as the result of new guidelines recently established by the Self-Selection Regulatory Committee, a subcommittee of the Council on Campus and Religious Life. The guidelines, released in a memorandum distributed to freshmen this week, contain "two sets of interest expectations with which a freshman should comply" prior to self-selecting. According to the memorandum, anyone who self-selects into one of the four Patterson Court fraternities (PiKA, KA, SAE, PDT) must: (1) eat a minimum of three meals at the house; (2) know 25% of the house members; (3) attend five social functions; and (4) introduce himself to an officer of the house to discussthe responsibilities of a member of a national fraternity: Freshmen seeking membership in one of the five participating eating houses (PAX, ETC, Emanon, ATO, F&M) are expected to: (1) eat three meals at the house; (2) know 10% of the house members; and (3) attend three social functions. **An eating house or fraternity may challenge a freshman’s selection,” on the grounds that he or she has not met the criteria, the memorandum said. Such challenges will be ruled on by the committee, which can prevent freshmen from joining the eating house or fraternity once a challenge is made. Committee member Anne Eglin said the committee will not be so much concerned with adherence to the guidelines per se as it will with the general level of interest the freshman has shown. She added, “We just wanted some specific guidelines on what constituted interest,” not rules designed to exclude freshmen on technicalities. Eglin said the purpose of the guidelines is twofold: to ensure that freshmen become well acquainted with their prospective eating houses and to allow houses, if they desire, to cull those who have shown no interest. She said, “It might be that a (See Self-selection, page 2) girl into his car with candy. Each girl described the man as neatly dressed in a white shirt and tie, balding, and fairly tall, between 5'8" and 5'10". Fortunately, all of the girls refused to ride with the man and reported each incident immediately. Campus Security Director J.G. Hughes said he has received various reports of a man lingering around campus, but nothing has turned up from any of these reports. “I think the reports have been blown out of proportion, but that is no reason to get off-guard. There is just no need for undue worry,” said Hughes. Mills said, “What we're interested in is a license-plate number, but we have no trace of a number whatsoever. The man has committed no crime; we just want to question him so we can ease the tension the matter has caused." The town police are on constant alert and have been warning parents not to let their children wander around the town alone. Mills said he is pleased with the concern of citizens concerning the matter, and said he thinks most parents have taken the appropriate precautions to see that their children are especially careful. McKelway Opposes new evaluation forms By JOHN SIMAN Asst. News Editor Religion Professor Alexander McKelway said that he will oppose use of the standardized ICES forms for student evaluation of faculty and courses. The ICES forms were selected for college-wide use for the next six terms by the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann, according to the September 28 issue of The Davidsonian. Students will begin completing the forms at the end of this term. That students should rate professors is not at issue. “It is specified in the Code (of Faculty Evaluation Procedures) that students have a role to play in the evaluation process,” Zimmermann said in a September interview. McKelway, referring to himself as a “humanist,” challenges evaluation by means of an impersonal “machine-graded” questionnaire. “There is just no substitute for person-to-person encounters and perceptions,” McKelway said. He also advocates the use of student-written critiques, which would “give students a feeling that they are being seriously and thoughtfully consulted.” Psychology Professor John Kello, who used ICES forms last spring, said implementation of ICES forms “won’t preclude personal contact at all.” The ICES forms include space for optional student essays if professors desire subjective evaluation. Kello, who called himself a “scientist,” praised the forms because they allow the compiling of statistics on students’ appraisal of instruction. McKelway faulted the ability of any type of standardized form to measure “gifts.” “Teaching can obviously take place in a tremendous variety of ways,” McKelway said, so it makes no sense to rate all professors on the basis of a “single system.” Kello rejects the view that the forms could not be made to apply to a diverse faculty. He praised the forms’ flexibility and said they “cover all kinds of dimensions” of instruction. (See more, page 2) Publication ceases With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for this term. Publication will resume on November 30, 1979.