while a failure of

_ 8—The Davidsonian— December 7, 1979

Sports Scripts
Cross Country

Davidson’s cross country teams concluded successful seasons with an awards banquet Thursday, November 15. Each team’s hard work materialized into a satisfying season.

The women's team, ending one of its best seasons ever, presented two awards: one for the best freshman runner, and one for the most valuable runner on the team. The best freshman runner award went to Merris Hollingsworth. Hollingsworth showed continuous improvement throughout the year and was a vital contributor to the team, never placing lower than fifth among the Davidson runners.

The most valuable runner award was received by Susan Davidson, probably one of the best female athletes to attend Davidson. After the Southern Conference Tournament, she was an entrant in Division II district, regional, and national races. Davidson competed in Division III, so she was meeting stiff competition. She finished third in the district and sixteenth in the regionals, but a complicated placement mechanism prevented her assignment of a place in the nationals. Her achievements were unprecedented in Davidson women's cross country history, and she was certainly a deserving recipient of the honor.

The men's cross country team presented three awards: the best freshman runner, the most valuable runner, and the Fred Borch Award. The best freshman runner award was given to Jack Smith, a runner who finished in Davidson’s top five every race and shows a lot of promise for future contribution and leadership of the team. Jeff Morrow, the top Davidson finisher in the Southern Conference meet, received the Most Valuable Runner award. His continued improvement throughout the season aided the men in their achievement of a satisfying 7-5 record.

The Fred Borch Award, presented annually for maximization of one’s potential and total contribution to the team, was awarded to senior captain George Strobel. This year ended four years of hard work for Strobel, whose contributions to the team stretched far beyond his running ability.

Although the festivities were a celebration for the hard work the teams had done, they were darkened somewhat by the fact that Coach Norman Koller will not be returning for another year with the men's squad.

A runner summed up the feeling of the squad by saying, “This man’s persistence has lifted the Davidson Cross Country squad from the cellar to respectability. He has done a fine job and will be sorely missed by the program.” —ROB MOORE

Swimming

The Davidsonian swimmers suffered a disappointing 89-24 loss to Vanderbilt, a talented SEC squad, last Saturday in Nashville. The magnitude of the loss, which opened the 1980 schedule, came as a stiff surprise to coach Pat Miller.

“We're not that bad,” she noted, still nurturing her pre-season expectations of her experienced squad. Those expectations present lofty goals for this year’s team, such as a high finish in the Southern Conference meet at the season’s end.

The “meat” of the 1980 schedule will occur after Christmas break, however, and holiday preparations include a training trip to St. Petersburg, Florida.

Davidson's 24 points resulted from several bright performances in Saturday's meet, particularly from divers Frank Bright, who took second place, and Charu Sharma, who nabbed third. Taking second place finishes in individual events were Rick Williams, breaststroke; Mark Tommerdahl, 200 meter IM; and Craig Finger, 50 meter freestyle.

Monday sees Davidson clash with J.C. Smith, a hopeful confidence-builder for the favored Wildcats. Afterwards, Miller and her swimmers hope intense Christmas-time work will ensure an exciting and productive year for the 1980 swimmers.

—BUCK BRADBERRY

Rifle Team

With one third of the season past, the Davidson College rifle team has amassed a 2-2 record. They defeated North Carolina A&T and Furman but lost to The Citadel and NC State. At the Furman First Invitational, John Parham, a co-captain with Pat Stuart, shot exceptionally well by scoring 539 points out of a possible 600 to receive the high individual firing award.

The team, coached by Sergeant Ransom Cooper, is looking forward to the first Western Carolina Rifle Conference match on Saturday at 8 am in the basement Belk firing range. Davidson will be one of seven teams involved.

Fire will be resumed after Christmas with a second WCC match and a match with The Citadel and UT.

—DANNY ARMISTEAD

Today, only a handful of people know what “the China Syndrome” means... Soon you will know.

JANE FONDA

MICHAEL DOUGLAS

JACK LEMMON

Friday, December 7 8 & 10:30,
Love Auditorium
$1.50 or Season Pass

$5 Season Pass on sale, with $1 going to Cambodia relief campaign

Another outstanding job by

BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925”