(continued from page 1)

Senate’s resolution, and some of its features could be implemented as soon as this winter’s exam period. SGA President Bruce Brown said the most easily implemented changes would be the first four described above. Another platform of the resolution is that the faculty’s deadline for turning in grades be extended, with the exception of senior grades during the spring term.

History professor David Shi, who last week initiated the faculty petition to establish a dual system of exams in which each professor had the option of either scheduling or not scheduling a final exam, reiterated at the forum the fact that the “Gang of Eleven’s” proposal did not intend to abolish self-scheduled exams. “I have never argued that (the honor system and self-scheduled exams) are separate; I’ve always acknowledged in my public statements that I believe they are indeed related, very closely related, but not mutually dependent,” Shi said.

Philosophy professor John Young contended that “self-scheduled exams are symbolic of the integrity of the honor code.” “My concern about self-scheduled exams is simply this: that the way they are structured now, they do not allow the honor system to work according to its stated function,” Shi added. This is because, he later said, “it is very difficult for a student or a faculty member to know what is going on in this building during an exam period.” Shi said he would approve of some regulated, formalized guidelines in the self-scheduled exam procedure to eliminate confusion and ambiguity. “I like it,” he said of the Senate resolution.

But Shi’s personal concern extends beyond the scope of self-scheduled exams, he indicated. “There are students here who are not willing to shoulder the burden of the honor system; that is, they are not willing to turn in those who they see cheating, stealing, lying, etc. The system, then, is not functioning as it should,” he said.

But Philosophy professor Robert Maydole said that although he has the right to structure his course as he pleases, he does not have the right “to act as jury, or judge, or hangman in cases of cheating.” This, he said, is the role of the Honor Council; his duty is only to adhere to the approved system. He explained he does not have the right to give a scheduled exam if he suspects a great deal of cheating on campus.

Dean of Students Will Terry also acknowledged that “it is not the professor’s job to propagandize the honor system.” Hans Watford, a student solicitor, said he wanted to reassure students and faculty that the honor system is working. “There is cheating, but it’s not rampant. There’s been no gross increase in cheating these last years.”

Senior Glen Darbyshire called himself the “student skeptic” of the current exam system, although he said he is reluctant to have scheduled exams yet. The honor code can be effectively enforced, and the benefits gained from operating on the current system, such as moral growth, self-confidence, and convenience and flexibility, must be weighed in light of the negative features of the system, according to Darbyshire. Under the self-scheduled system, honest students can be compared to dishonest ones by a professor, he pointed out. Under a system of scheduled exams, however, he said he did not fear losing the opportunity for moral growth.

Psychology professor John Kello acknowledged that, if approached, he “would have been able to sign” the proposal that was circulated among the faculty last week. “However, in faculty debate over the proposal, the message I got from its supporters was quite different (from the proposal itself), namely too many students will cheat and do cheat on self-scheduled exams—the temptation is simply too great. The self-scheduling system unduly strains the honor code, it evades the honor code. It should therefore be discontinued. That I do not endorse,” Kello said.

During the question and answer period that followed the faculty and student talks, junior Tommy Thompson suggested that as part of an effort to remind students of their responsibility to ensure the smooth operation of self-scheduled exams, each professor should address the subject in class near the beginning of each exam period. But Dean of Students Will Terry emphasized strongly that students must remind students of this responsibility. “Be sure in your own conscience and in your own mind that you are willing to report violations of the honor system before you make wild affirmations of your loyalty to it,” Terry challenged the student body. “The honor system is fundamentally a student system. I certainly think a faculty member who does not believe in the honor system at Davidson, I have real questions whether they should remain in this community,” Terry continued.

He concluded by saying, “My concern, however, finally, is not whether the exams are scheduled, unscheduled, taken in the bedroom or bathroom, but that the honor system at Davidson stands firm, because that’s the most important thing we’ve got,” Terry concluded.

-Houses-

“Each freshman was assigned a number randomly,” Ratliff explained. Junior Mark Duckett takes a break during a night of concentrated studying.

(Continued from page 3)

...pus ministry points out that “if it is successful, the ministry to students...will be undertaken not just by one man but by a minister backed by the cooperation and help of an entire congregation.” Rush’s job is one of heavy demands. Responsible to the session, he is fully a part of the church as a town institution, going beyond the strict realm of Davidson College. His salary funded largely by Davidson, Rush is fully a part of the college and its life. Rush is an intimate advisor to the Y and has a vital interest in its service projects. The Tuesday night Worship is one of his responsibilities and one of the most concrete examples of the continuing relationship between the students and the congregation. The last eighteen months have been especially trying for Rush in the absence of a Senior Minister. Perhaps a new life will begin with the arrival of a new Senior Minister, Dr. Charles E. Raynal, who will be here at the end of this month.

Drama Workshop
By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

Presented this week by Drama Workshop III will be the plays “Apollo of Bellac” and “Hello Out There.” The last plays to be performed on campus this term, they will be held in the workshop theater. This theater creates different dramatic experiences for the audience and gives variety to the plays. These two plays will be in the round, a technique which allows the audience to be “in the scene” and to feel most involved.

Lyman Collins will direct the first play, “Apollo of Bellac” written by Jean Girandoux, who also wrote “The Madwoman of Chaillot.” “Apollo of Bellac” is the story of a girl who comes looking for a job in a large bureaucracy but is afraid of men. She meets a mysterious character, the Man of Bellac, who tells her the secret of getting along with men. The secret is to tell a man that he is beautiful. The events of the play start when she cops the secret.

Religion (continued from page 1)

“A minister backed by... an entire congregation,” and by an entire college, an invitation to the table of doughnuts and coffee. Perhaps it is an invitation to the new covenant in the life of the Davidson community.

Highly regarded Bryn Mawr College, in a suburb of Philadelphia, is another school which gives its professors the option of scheduling or not scheduling their final examinations. Professors are also allowed to give take-home examinations, papers in place of examinations, or no exam at all. College Recorder Julie Painter recently told The Davidsonian that of the 89 percent of the courses she had knowledge of, 12 percent gave scheduled final exams, 52 percent gave self-scheduled exams, 13 percent gave take-homes, 9 percent required papers instead of an exam, and 3 percent had no exam. Painter emphasized the role of Bryn Mawr’s honor code in the un-proctored process, and noted that “The only reason why this particular system works is students.”

Williams College, a small but prestigious school in Williamstown, Mass., gives professors the same options as Bryn Mawr does, yet with different results. Dean of Students David O’Connor estimated that sixty percent of final examinations at Williams were scheduled.

The play has the universal theme that beauty is everything,” said Lyman. “I am emphasizing the universality by setting the play in no specific time or place.” “The play is rather sexist, but the main theme is to accept life for what it is and to accept the beauty of every day.” One of the best descriptions of the play is a quote by Brooks Atkinson, “a little gem of ironic humor.”

The cast includes Laurie Campbell as Agnes; Nelson Simon as the Man of Bellac; Andy Miller as the receptionist; Mark Carpenter as the president; James Baskin as the vice-president; Francois Cougnenc as Miss Goattooth, the secretary to the president; Julie Webber as the President's mistress; John Miller Mayfield, Larry Morton, Chris Conrad and Bert Mobley as members of the board. Ron Rosenberg is the set designer.

Joel Shirk is the director of “Hello Out There” written by William Saroyan. It is a powerful, serious drama that moves very swiftly. “Hello Out There” concerns a young man who is in jail accused of rape. He falls in love with a girl who works at the jail. Both are lonely and need each other to find their dreams. The husband of the woman who was raped returns for justice, but he finds the young man innocent. The husband then faces the decision either to kill the young man or to admit his wife's infidelity.

“The play deals with social ethics,” said Joel. “I like the play because it has a message.” “Hello Out There” is one of the best plays Saroyan has written. It is compassionate, direct and throbbing with suspense.

Members of the cast are Mark Elmore as the young man, Bun Walter as the girl, Ted Jones as the husband, Penny Mandell as the woman who is raped, and Mark Kinzer and Jack Hall as two friends of the husband. The two plays will be performed at 7:00 on Thursday and Friday nights. Tickets are one dollar.