THE DAVIDSONIAN > Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 5
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
October 12, 1979

Spencer releases 1979 athletic budget; expenditures drop $67,000
By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

College President Samuel Spencer released Tuesday an account of athletic expenses for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1979. This marks only the second time that the athletic budget has been released since the Trustees moved in 1973 that the budget be made public annually. 1979 athletic expenses dropped $66,250.86 from those shown on the 1978 budget, which Spencer released last April. Spencer said the Trustee’s order was not carried out earlier because “no one remembered.”

“It just went by the boards. I’m not sure how, but it did,” Spencer said.

PIRG loses vote by 2-1
By JOHN BOSWELL
Staff Writer

Chances for the continuation of the Davidson Chapter of the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group (NC-PIRG) appear slim, according to Chapter Chairman Susan Marynowski. She cited the elimination of the old funding system formerly in use as the reason. NC-PIRG is a research and advocacy organization concerned with social issues. The student body voted 436 to 261 in a referendum Tuesday against continuing PIRG’s funding system. A $4 fee for the group had been included in students’ bills each year. NC-PIRG State Co-Director Elisa Wolper had said that unless the referendum passed, PIRG would not have enough financial stability to continue operation at Davidson. College President Samuel Spencer removed the fee from the comprehensive bill last summer. He had said that he would abide by the students’ decision as to whether to reinstate the fee on the bill or not. Marynowski said the NC-PIRG state-wide organization will meet Sunday, and will probably discuss the future of the Davidson chapter. “The state chapter is not going to abandon us,” she said. But she expressed doubt that PIRG would continue at Davidson. There was a lack of effective activity in the group, according to Marynowski. She said Davidson PIRG could have been a good chapter, but that it suffered because of a history of minimal student involvement. Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross said Davidson was the only school in North Carolina that had funded the PIRG chapter with a fee included in the tuition bill. Ross also said the automatic funding system caused a lack of motivation in the group. She said PIRG members, secure in their funding, did not publicize their activities and therefore the student body was unaware of PIRG. The funds brought in by the fee in the comprehensive bill had

Spencer said no one realized the budget was supposed to be released annually until last spring. Religion Professor David Kaylor said that after unsuccessfully asking Comptroller Robert Davidson for the figures in 1974 and 1978, he showed the Trustees’ order to Spencer last spring. Spencer then had the 1978 budget published in the April 1979 Update. The budget was published in the Update, instead of merely being released, last spring in an attempt to rectify the mishap, Spencer said. Kaylor said he does not believe there was any dishonesty involved in the oversight. He said, “I believe the administration actually did forget. I forgot myself.” The drop in total net athletic expenses from $870,135.73 in 1978 to $803,884.87 in 1979 came mostly because of an $87,376.18 jump in basketball game revenues, according to Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill. Largely because of the jump, basketball expenditures dropped $99,607.16, from $309,889.42 in 1978 to $210,282.26 in 1979. Football expenditures rose by $15,079.18, from $234,642.46 to $249,721.64. Cartmill attributed the rise in basketball attendance, and thereby game revenues, to several factors. He cited (See Budget, page 2)

Conduct Council adopts honor pledge final timebeen necessary to maintain PIRG’s professional staff of researchers and lobbyists.

Trustees approve new dormitories
By TOM ROTH
Staff Correspondent

The College Trustees decided over the weekend to go ahead with the construction of two new dormitories. College President Samuel Spencer said construction will begin fairly soon so that inflation won’t force costs up much higher. Four dorms were originally planned, but the college’s failure to receive a HUD loan caused the Trustees to shelve plans for two of them, said Assistant to the President John Cunningham. The Trustees are still not certain where the greater part of the funding will come from for the dorms that will be built. (See Dorms, page 2)

Diane Odom and Russ Snipes tap danced “Singing in the Rain” during Top Hats and Cat Tales while it really poured outside.

By SHERI GRAVETT
Staff Writer

The Student Conduct Council unanimously adopted a new wording of the honor pledge this week. The Council had already approved the pledge in a preliminary vote two weeks ago. The pledge now reads as follows: “On my honor I pledge that I have neither given nor received help on this (review, paper, exam, etc.) nor am I aware of any violation on the part of others.” The newly worded pledge will go into effect immediately according to Dean of Students Will Terry. On pledged work, students will be required to write out the entire pledge or professors will type it out in the papers for the student’s signature in order to acquaint students with the new wording. Terry said the new pledge is designed to make students more aware of what it means to pledge work and of the Honor Code in general.

Tenure discussion with Trustees produces ‘Step forward’, but no action
By BOE YOUNG
Staff Correspondent

Last Thursday morning a group of concerned students and faculty members met with several Trustees to discuss last spring’s controversial tenure decisions. The Trustees took no official action on the matter. Sociology Professor Norm Koller, Political Science Professor Joseph Retzer, and English Professor Georgianna Ziegler were denied tenure in May. The group consisted of Senior Cathy Ansheles, Senior Tommy Thompson, Junior Eric Christensen, Religion Professor David Kaylor, Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac, and Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole. Both faculty and students agreed that progress was made. Ansheles says, “it was a step forward in the fact that we were able to communicate to the trustees the real feelings of students and faculty. Too often the trustees are isolated from the college community.” Kaylor added, “the meeting provided an outlet for students and faculty to share ideas with the trustees.”

According to Ansheles, the group was mainly protesting the procedure used in evaluating professors for tenure. Despite the adoption of a Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures in March, faculty members still feel confused about how they rate and what their chances of receiving tenure are, Ansheles and Kaylor said. The group wants the administration to inform faculty members on how they stand and what specific criteria are considered in evaluating them. Kaylor expressed concern about tenure quotas. College President Samuel Spencer has said repeatedly that the College uses no such quotas. Kaylor, however, is not convinced and feels there may be a limit to the number of junior professors who can receive tenure. According to the September 14 Davidsonian, Spencer has warned that getting tenure has become “more difficult all over the country, including Davidson.”

Kaylor says that when it is difficult to receive tenure, faculty members are forced to keep themselves marketable. Thus, they often spend more time getting papers published and must reduce time spent with students. Kaylor states such a situation may “impose a bad effect on the educational climate.”