THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ Lessons Learned

The departure of Reynolds Lecturer Canon Burgess Carr has prompted a veritable fruit basket of reactions. After the initial surprise and sadness, a growing defensiveness has replaced those original feelings. The incident is complex. Cultural differences and personal values are involved. Yet given the situation, we must look for some justification for Carr’s reactions. There must be some lesson to be learned. It was a mistake in protocol. Of course, there was no maliciousness involved. It simply illustrates a certain haste and carelessness in preparation. The entire incident evolved from a simple misunderstanding. It is easy to see how such an incident would occur. In an institution such as Davidson, where dealings on an informal basis are the general rule, it becomes difficult to estimate how they will be received. In this case, informal Southern hospitality did not translate. Naturally, the college treated Carr as any other speaker. But to one who is particularly attuned to racial and national differences, it appeared as a slight. Again, we cannot estimate the importance placed by an African on the meal. From the cultural perspective, symbolism obviously was very important. It is understandable that our lack of sensitivity to his upbringing and viewpoints could be mistaken for disinterest.

Several implications have suggested that Carr, in the face of growing displeasure from the Kenyan government, used Davidson. Allegations assert that Carr fabricated an incident to improve his image in Kenya. Details of Carr's abbreviated visit appeared last Friday in Kenyan newspapers. But the College, knowing his background, was aware that Carr was a controversial man. As were other lecturers to Davidson ranging from William F. Buckley and James K. Kilpatrick to former energy czar, Frank Zarb, Carr was invited to raise the consciousness of the college community. Can we, therefore, question the motives of someone who apparently acts on his complex convictions? Unfortunately, owing to his hasty departure, Carr’s intentions and message have been horribly confused. In a conversation Wednesday evening, Carr explained the lesson he hoped his action would provide: “I hope that Davidson College will re-examine the opportunities and the advantages that it enjoys by having international students. By having people from other countries, you offer the opportunity for broadening yourselves and sharpening your sensitivities. Consequently, one would hope to be better equipped to be world citizens; to deal with the world on the world’s terms.” By leaving so abruptly, Carr failed to illustrate the impact that culture, or insensitivity to culture, has in political and church relations with African nations. Of course, the old adage, actions speak louder than words, could be applicable. But in this incident, the personal turmoil surrounding Carr worked against his intentions. His message has since been misconstrued. We did not know enough; we, not being as racially and politically aware, were not sensitive to the cultural differences which prompted his objection. In light of this controversy, we should re-examine our policy towards international students. Ideally, their presence should provide a situation of mutual benefit and awareness. Yet obviously, this has not been the case. Exposure to international students will help us.

The Campus Forum

Honor Code

To the Editor:

The current upheaval over the Honor Code and Code of Behavior has me confused. I have never really felt the honest presence of these two guidelines for as long as I’ve been here, in spite of the fact that as an eighteen-year-old I agreed to abide by them. Recently, two people were excused from this “fragile society,” one for behaving improperly according to the Code of Behavior’s program, the other for taking what was not his. I was astounded initially, that any group of people felt they had the right to expel someone whom they felt didn’t mold to their demands. That is beside the point, since both codes are firmly established components of the institution called Davidson College. The other day, in a presentation to the class, one of my classmates freely admitted having stolen a book from another college. The classmate justified taking it by remarking that it was needed to research an obscure topic. This was in the presence of the professor and he,Along with my classmates, I snickered at the “prank.” Yet, had the book been pilfered off a Davidson shelf, the student, once discovered, would presumably be punished. Somehow our ideas of right and wrong have been perverted. It is wrong to steal from within Davidson, but it is an honest intellectual effort to steal from another college. The professor even suggested she donate it to the Davidson library. A friend of mine was told during his pre-admission interview that Davidson attempts to educate the student by removing him from the corruptive world, and by creating a sense of purity in him so that when he returns, he may better the world with this newly learned Davidson purity. Who will care to be booted out by a disapproving group? Something is very wrong. Honesty can’t be propagated that way.

Brenda M. Boyle '79

---

Open-mindedness

To the Editor:

Davidson seems to be going for a record these days. The latest example of the insensitivity that is rampant on campus is the disregard of the feelings of both a visiting dignitary and the college’s own African exchange student. As a well-educated and respected member of the African continent, Jeannette should have been much more involved in the activities surrounding Canon Burgess Carr’s visit. Yet she was not. Whether through ignorance or incompetence, the significance of the role Jeannette could have played was overlooked. It is doubtful that the intent was malicious. Individuals responsible for this most recent event have publicly apologized. Unfortunately, however, this will not make up for the distress felt by Jeannette or the tears shed by Carr after he admirably maintained his diplomacy throughout the meal. The most Davidson can do to make amends for this particular mistake is to pay Carr for his lectures and extend the invitation for him to return. The man is not bitter, nor did he “use” Davidson College. Canon Burgess Carr merely expressed his honest and heartfelt reaction to a terrible blunder. In the process, he has hopefully opened up a bit of the narrow-mindedness present at this school and from here we can move onward, “Christian” soldiers.

Cathy Ansheles '80

---

To the Editor:

This letter is in response to the incident last Wednesday concerning Canon Burgess Carr. We feel this incident was a setback by both parties. From the reaction of the Davidson community, we feel the majority was concerned, which was unfortunate but a lesson can be learned from it. We sincerely hope that the Davidson College community will draw something constructive from this incident, the most recent in a series of Davidson controversies. Only by becoming more sensitive, open-minded, and understanding, with respect to those ideas foreign to the Davidson community, can we avoid future controversies.

Erwin Carter '79
David Donaldson '80
Vince Parker '81

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the Editor. All letters for publication must be signed. We reserve the right to edit letters over 200 words. Mail letters to Opinion Editor, The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, N.C. 28036, or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters received by Monday night will be printed in that week’s issue.

Ann Garner, Dennis McLawhorn, Co-editors
Bill Peeples, Executive Editor
Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
George Murdaugh, Senior Opinion Editor
Meredith Durden, Senior Features Editor
Barry Sachner, Senior Sports Editor
Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Jim Garrett, News Editor
Sheri Gravett, Opinion Editor
Jean Soracco, Features Editor
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor
Margaret Jackson, Opinion Graphics Editor
Mike Britt, News Graphics Editor
Diane Odom, Sports Graphics Editor
Tonya Boylston, Production Manager
Larry Morton, Advertising Manager
Karen Long, Circulation Manager
Marshall Waddel, Production Coordinator
Richard Neal, Production Associate
Gregg Strader, Photography Director
Gus Purcell, Art Editor
Mark Hess, Asst. Executive Editor
Mark Barrett, Asst. News Editor
Tina Akson, Asst. Features Editor
Rob Gibson, Asst. Sports Editor
Howard Browne, Asst. News Graphics Editor
Karen Sandlin, Asst. Opinion Graphics Editor
Marjorie Robertson, Asst. Features Graphics Editor
Audra Cross, Asst. Production Manager
Beverly Smith, Asst. Production Manager
Bruce Lipsitz, Asst. Circulation Manager
Phil Howerton, Asst. Photography Director
Bill Poteat, Asst. Photography Director