Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

After much work and careful planning on the part of the Theatre and Speech Department, faculty members voted to accept
the proposal for a combination of speech, dramatic literature, and theatre courses. For many years a hybrid drama major has
been available to students through the Center for Special Studies. Lately, the number of students involved in this program has
been a constant, if not increasing one. Because of this steady interest, the department decided that a regular theatre major
would be a legitimate request.

The Theatre and Speech Department originally submitted its written proposal to the Educational Policy Committee in the middle of January.
The committee suggested some revisions which the department found helpful. These changes were made, and the proposal was again submitted.
The EPC passed the revised proposal on March 12.
ESTHER BRUCE

---

Center for Special Studies Director Frank Bliss named Wednesday the Center’s faculty for next year.

Scheduled to serve for two-year terms at the Center are Psychology Professor John Brockway, Biology Professor Donald Professor Robert Manning,
Sociology Professor Robert Myers, Political Science Professor Louis Ortmayer, Philosophy Professor Lance Stell, Psychology Professor Timothy Webster, and French Professor
Lauren Yoder.

Bliss made the announcement at an open meeting held Wednesday to introduce the Center’s new faculty, discuss programs of study
proposed for the Center, and told of the discontinuation of two of the Center’s more formal programs.

Bliss said that the Center's two currently structured majors - one in Public Policy and one in American Studies, will
be discontinued. One reason he gave for the change is the departure from the Center of those members of the
present faculty who specialize in these areas. Those students currently involved in these programs will be allowed to continue in
them, however, and prospective majors will be allowed to pursue these topics on an independent basis.

Bliss also tentatively proposed formal Center programs in the areas of Bio-ethics and International Studies. He said he hopes that
these proposals will draw student criticism, suggestions, and stimulate alternate proposals which was one of the purposes of the meeting.
LINDSEY ROBERTSON

---

Prospective Weekend

130 prospective students will be visiting Davidson this weekend. The invasion was the brainchild of Dave Barnard, who sees it
as an opportunity to show the incoming freshmen what Davidson is really like. A square dance with Will Terry and
a campus-wide field day Friday are some of the activities planned for this weekend. Students will give tours to groups
of ten prospectives every half-hour on Friday, and they will be having a meal at one of the houses on
Patterson Court. They will also attend classes.

---

Investments in U.S. companies which operate in South Africa as "leverage" to encourage those companies to "work to ameliorate the
consequences of apartheid," according to the Trustee Board meeting. The statement does not specifically explain how the College will manage
the activities of U.S. companies in South Africa.

This action by the Trustees adds Davidson to the growing list of colleges and universities adopting a policy of constructive
engagement. By directing activity away from illegal or immoral conduct, the Trustees will direct the College's manager to dispose of
investments in companies that do not comply with this policy, the statement said.
PHIL DUNCAN

---

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term,
by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date.

The newspaper's office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone:
892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per year. Second-class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

---

GENERAL CONTRACTORS
Contractors for some of Davidson's finest buildings
MOORESVILLE
