Notes on Students

Patterson Court Officers

Eight Patterson Court Eating houses elected their new officers recently. Junior John Turnburke is the new president of ATO; Louis
Williams is treasurer; Elizabeth Alexander, assistant treasurer; Jeff Coleman and Nancy Wright, social chairmen; and Vonnie Hendrickson, house manager.

At Emanon, Jeff Harris is the new president; Gregg Londry, vice-president; Bill Wilson, treasurer; Audrey Little, Robbie Kirkendol, and Martha
Ann Whitmore, social chairmen.

At ETC, Donya Boylston captured the presidency; Dick Jones is the new vice-president; Leslie Bowman, treasurer; Mark Newman, house manager;
and Charlie Bridges, social chairman.

At KA, George Brown is number one; Andy Smith, number two; and Charlie Pearson, number three.

At Pika, Trip Ruth is the incoming president; Andy Rosen, vice-president; Dave Smith, treasurer; Mark Carpenter, assistant treasurer; Stuart Baskin,
social chairman.

At Rusk, Ann Clark is the new president; Shera Alford, vice-president; Beth Goode, treasurer; Giza Taylor, social chairman; Liza Brown,
house manager; and Beth Whittle, food manager.

At SAE, Adrian Wilson grabbed the presidency; Sam Curt is vice-president; Randy Dulin, treasurer; Burton Vance and John Thomson, social
chairmen.

— JEAN SORACCO

Hall Counselors

Hall counselors and their alternates for next year were announced Tuesday. Ten women and 22 men, as well as four
women and four men alternates, were chosen out of 70 candidates. The selections were made by Dean of Students Will
Terry, Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, 1979-80 Freshmen Advisors Anne Eglin and John Willingham, Housing Director Scotty Nichols, and
former hall counselors Cindy Curtis, Dick Deibert, Chip Legerton, Jim Haynes, and Lee Raney. The committee spent about 40 hours
interviewing and selecting the finalists.

Next year’s hall counselors are: Kathy Adkins, Katherine Allen, Barb Ashley, Katherine Christie, Susan Eglin, Lisa Hasty, Grace Morgan, Kirby
Owen, Amy Robinson, Anne Stanback; and David Barkley, John Davis, Phil Daves, Bob Evans, Rob Fields, Mike Fitzgerald, Jack Hall,
David Haskins, Turley Howard, Dick Jones, Bryan Kelleher, Bart Landess, Clay MacCaulay, Chris Moore, Pete Neefus, Jeff Ray, Blaine Sanders,
Doug Shanks, Mark Shogry, L.D. Simmons, Richard Terry, David Waddill.

Alternates are: Gray Bullard, Fess Crockett, Alex Evans, Tricia Haynes, Renee Hedgepeth, Karen Hester, David Rhodes, and Nancy Wright.

— CAROLE LOPTSON

Microfilm Copier

There aren’t many students who’ve managed to find the new $4,000 microfilm copier in the Library basement, according to Director
Leland Park. Park said that for “the time being” all copies are free.

John Garda and Deborah Wayman will appear with the Ballet Repertory Company in Love Auditorium on Wednesday, February 2.

Photo by Susan Cook

Cultural Events

The Troika Balalaikas are coming to Davidson. Who are the Troika Balalaikas? Wednesday, March 14 (the first Wednesday after Break)
the Cultural Events Committee is bringing to the 900 Room: three young musicians from California who re-create Russian folk music,
dressing in authentic costumes, singing in Russian, and playing traditional instruments.

A balalaika, a stringed triangular instrument, is a traditional instrument of Russian folk music whose origins can be traced back
to the ninth century. In medieval times, the balalaika was popularized by the court jesters who then passed it on
to the peasants. The group is in its fourth year of association and is on tour in the western, midwestern,
and southern states.

The group “never fails to bring its audiences to their feet—singing, dancing, and clapping to the captivating rhythms,” according to
Stage Works Magazine.Ken Wood and Suzie Summers offer several life-work planning programs.

By GLEN LIESEGANG
Staff Correspondent

It may just be too late to grab a good Spring externship, but it’s just the right time to look
for a challenging summer job. Ken Wood and Suzie Summers, directors of the five-year-old Office of Experiential Programs, are always
there to inform students of the many options available to them.

There are two major programs offered: Centering-Venturing and Life-Work Planning. The C-V program includes Intern-Externships, the Philadelphia Semester, and the
N.I.H. Program in Washington D.C. It also involves seminars, workshops, and Outward Bound programs, such as backpacking and white-water canoeing.

About 70 people took advantage of Experiential Programs during the 1977-78 academic year, says Wood. This fall, 37 students participated
in part-time internships in Charlotte. The Intern program provides the opportunity for the student to either work part-time or full-time
during a term away from Davidson with a professional in the student’s field of interest. Quite often the Experiential Programs
Office can locate a Davidson graduate outside the Charlotte area who is willing to sponsor a student for such a
program.

The Extern program involves a week over one of the breaks, usually at Spring Break, during which the student works
with a professional to get firsthand information about the area of interest. Last year, 60 students took Externships during breaks.

The Philadelphia Urban Semester is a joint program between Davidson and a Philadelphia-based organization. The semester involves internships in addition
to seminars and lectures, to allow for the exchange of ideas. Several days are set aside for non-academic activities in
the program.

Ballet Repertory Company is coming to Love Auditorium February 21

By ROGER FARABEE
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, February 21, the Ballet Repertory Company will perform in Love Auditorium as part of the Davidson College Artists’
Series. The company, the touring offspring of the prestigious American Ballet Theatre, was formed by Richard England in 1972 and
produces both the “classical” ballet repertory and interesting modern works with equal aplomb.

England, artistic director of the troupe, is a graduate of Harvard and the Juilliard School and is also a past
performer with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, the Huntington Dance Ensemble, and American Ballet Theatre. He has played a pioneering role
in the regional ballet movement, having founded the Alabama State Ballet, Dance Repertory Company, and the Dance Department at the
Governor’s School of North Carolina.

The dancers in the company range in age from 16 to 20 years, many of whom are scholarship students at
Ballet Theatre School; many later join the larger American Ballet Theatre. Praises ring out from critics wherever this vivacious and
competent company travels. The ballet craze has grown rapidly in this country and the attendance accorded to the successful Ballet
Repertory Company proves this.

At Oven's Auditorium in Charlotte, the troupe will perform the full-length “Romeo and Juliet” on Tuesday, February 20, at 8:15
pm. Some tickets are still available and may be obtained by calling Lynda Sawyer at 374-1619, weekdays from 9 am
to 5 pm. A master class will be held, in addition, on Wednesday, February 21 at 12:00 for persons having
interest in and prior experience in ballet. Those interested should contact Linda Malloné at the handball courts in the gymnasium
on Monday, Feb. 19, at 10:00 am. Don't miss it!
