8—The Davidsonian—February 9, 1979

Wildcats fall to the Citadel and Western

By BRYAN KELLEHER
and
DAVID NEISLER
Staff Writers

Davidson’s Wildcats dropped their fifteenth game of the season in Charleston against the Citadel Monday night by a 79-70 score. The Cats' eleventh straight road loss of the season continued an almost unbelievable drought away from home in recent years. In fact, this year’s Seniors have seen but two road victories since they came to Davidson.

During the first half, the Cats trailed by as many as 13 points. Two straight buckets pulled them to within 9 points at the intermission, 40-31.

In the second half, John Gerdy warmed up and slowly brought the Cats back into the ballgame. A Gerdy jumper with 12:14 remaining tied the game at 52 all. The final 10 minutes, though, were filled with frustration for Davidson.

After tying the game two more times, the Cats ran into foul and turnover troubles. Gerdy, Brian Rowan, and Todd Haynes fouled out, crippling any chance for a late Davidson rally. The Cats were guilty of 23 turnovers for the game. Closing minute free throws iced the Bulldog victory.

John Gerdy’s 27 points lifted him into second place on the all-time Southern Conference scoring list, with 2,325 career points. Jamie Hall contributed a game-high 10 rebounds for the Cats. The Citadel was led by Tommy Slawson’s 21 points.

Last Saturday night, Davidson traveled to Western Carolina and fell by an 87-74 score.

Wrestlers to host Generals

By DAVID PIPER
Staff Writer

The wrestling team is preparing for its last home match of the year.

This Friday the Cats host the Generals of Washington and Lee at 7:30 in Johnston Gym in what promises to be a tough match.

The feature match of the evening should be in the 142-pound weight class. Ron Gross of W&L comes to town sporting an 11-1 record. His sole loss came at the hands of Davidson's Pat Dulany two weeks ago. Dulany has a 10-2 record. Both losses came when he wrestled in the 150-pound class.

Captain Dulany is optimistic about the team’s chances on Friday. “We wrestled well against Furman, and I think the team is physically and mentally ready for W&L.”

“We have a lot of seniors wrestling their last match in front of the hometown fans, so I know they'll be psyched,” Dulany added. The seniors are Kevin Spangler, Steve “Mouse” Sellers, Pat Dulany, Peter Johnson, and Scott Phillips.

The squad is coming off its most impressive performance of the year—a 44-12 pasting of the Furman Paladins. Phillips won the 177-pound match by a fall. It is the fourth consecutive pin for Phillips and boosts his record to 9-4.

Freshman Scott Smith also pinned his opponent to win the 134-pound class. Sellers wrestled impressively in winning a major decision in the 126-pound class. Dulany won a decision in the 142-pound class.

After trailing by 16 at the half, the Cats drew within a 72-68 margin before faltering in the final stretch.

Gerdy led the Cats with 29 points (20 in the second half), followed by Hall’s 15 points and 8 rebounds. Carolina was led by “Missing” Person’s 29 points, including 14 of 18 shooting from the field.

The Wildcats travel to Williamsburg, Va., on February 8 to play William and Mary. They battle conference rival VMI in Lexington, Va., in a televised game on Saturday, February 10.

Swimmers beat W&M but lose to Appalachian State

By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

The Wildcat swimmers made duck soup out of the undefeated William & Mary Dudley’s Mother Duckers (that’s their name) last Friday (59-54) in a swim meet that proved to be “one of the greatest of all time.” It was neck and neck the whole meet; the final event found the catfish down by four points.

Shattering the previous school record by two seconds, the team of Beck, Alon, Finger, and Voight won the 400 free relay, and gave the Wildcats their ninth victory.

“We lucked out, we won three races by one tenth of a second,” remarked Coach Pat Miller. She went on to say, “This is the first time the team gave one hundred percent effort, and it paid off.”

It should be noted that Mike Shremmer and Paul Voight took first places in four of the five individual events. Shremmer was a double winner, while Voight took three first places and broke his own school record in the 50-yard freestyle (22.1 seconds).

The catfish continued their sweet success the following day by humiliating VMI by the score 64-47. Keith Riddle and Warren Beck each took two first places, and Craig Finger won the 200 butterfly.

The Wildcats' record stood at 10-1, yet Coach Miller refused to be overly optimistic. She has, however, expressed high expectations for the conference meet coming up this month.

On Tuesday, the Wildcats were edged out by conference rivals Appalachian State (59-54). “We lost a lot of close races that we should have won,” commented Miller. “The Mountaineer divers really hurt our chances by capturing 14 points.”

One bright spot of the meet was Freshman Warren Beck; he broke the school record for the 200-yard freestyle by 1.2 seconds and won the race. Shremmer captured the 500 and 1000-yard freestyle while Voight took the 100 freestyle. Coach Miller hopes to even the score with Appalachian at conference. The Catfish take on three tough teams this weekend. They travel to Atlanta to meet Emory, Georgia State, and Georgia Tech.

MOORESVILLE

BARGER CONSTRUCTION

GENERAL CONTRACTORS
Contractors for some of Davidson’s finest buildings