By JEFF MCARN
Staff Writer

People dial “one”, phones ring long distance. Girls giggle in the library stacks. Freshman guys turn red and feel stupid
as they find themselves on the halls of Cannon without any good reason for being there. Professors take extra delight
in making special assignments. Rooms are cleaned out, as are Piedmont bank accounts. Roommates advise and console.

In this co-ed day and age, midwinters can either be a time of excitement or anguish. It can be a
time when one mixes with the campus, or when one feels alienated from the campus. The problem lies in the
acquisition of a date—take a chance on a campus date or import? Back in the good 'ole—er, the pre-co-ed days,
the problem was non-existent; the dating situation was simple and straightforward importation. If you had no outside connections, you conned
your roommate into getting his date to drag along a few extra bodies. Simple, easy, no anxiety—just a big time
to let it all rip.

The whole purpose of the big weekend originally was to provide an occasion for girls to flood the campus, to
provide “a time to break the monotony of asexual life” (Quips and Cranks, 1966). And the girls came. Friday afternoon,
the frat boys out shining up the ‘ole Chevys under the Carolina blue skies. Then there they would come, car
after car after car, gushing into the male campus like a flash flood into Death Valley.

What did Davidson do with 850 boy-hungry females arriving en masse? According to legend, the administration, going beyond the call
of duty (or sanity), were also throwing out old mattresses for the refugees in the guys’ dorms. It was time
for the big weekend, and fraternity pledges sacrificed their beds for their upperclassmen brothers.

Under normal circumstances, perhaps, it would not have been such a massive undertaking to house 600 girls in Belk and
Watts if they were NORMAL girls. But noooo. These were 600 boy-crazy girls and they were out to make a
hit or strike out swinging. So when they arrived in the lobby of Belk to check in, they drug behind
them three or four suitcases full of hairdryers, curlers, make-up, evening wear, outdoor wear, indoor wear, something for every possible
occasion. “You'd think,” recounts Scotty, “they were going on a world cruise.”

Apparently, all the imported equipment was justified in that during these Davidson weekends every possible occasion was likely to occur.
These were the only three times during the year that wine, women, and song converged on Davidson and it was
only natural, says Shaw, that the students felt they “had to make use of the situation.” After the cocktail parties,
the formal dinners, the concerts, the parties, the after-parties, the post-after-parties, came the big fraternity breakfasts on Patterson Court. “We'd
come in,” says Sue Ross, “take a shower, take about a two-hour nap, and start it all over again.”

In her college days at Queens, Sue Ross was herself one of the imported dates who frequented the Davidson big
weekend scene. “More than anything,” she recalls, “it was a frantically paced weekend.” The action was hardly limited to the
Davidson campus because Davidson was as void of alcohol as it was of women. There were picnics out in the
country, and the individual fraternity parties, distributed throughout the night, were also distributed throughout the territory. “They were as far
away as Statesville, Concord, and of course, Charlotte,” Sue reports. According to Scotty, there were some soirees all the way
into South Carolina. Sue says that one of the biggest problems was getting back to classes. If it was not
the guy who had to drag himself to class, it was the girl who had to be driven back to
her school for a Saturday quiz. Sue remembers a professor who had an uncanny knack for assigning quizzes on Davidson
weekends. “We were convinced that she consulted a Davidson calendar before scheduling her tests.”

The action was not only full and fast-paced, but bizarre. The unexpected came to be the norm. Novelty was the
important thing. All-night movies were not enough; there had to be all-night movies shown three at a time in the
same room. The operator would activate the soundtracks one at a time, rotating periodically, to keep everyone reasonably posted. There
were the circus acts—the elephant that played the harmonica, the chimp who shot onlookers with water pistols, the “slide for
life” act where a performer slid from the top of Belk to the ground on an anchored wire.

Perhaps the most novel act known at Davidson occurred the weekend that a 300-pound man arrived on campus with his
“talented pigs.” The ensemble was known as “Uncle Heavy and the Chop Review,” if you can believe that. The pig
that stole the show, however, was the singing pig. Yes, a 600-pound singing pig. Uncle Heavy and his porcine performers
were just one of the many spectacles that made Davidson weekends legendary.
