| 6—The Davidsonian—March 28, 1979

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Tweedledum, Tweedledee?

Andy Miller and John Jackson, the two candidates for the presidency of Davidson’s Student Government Association, met with the executive
and senior editors of The Davidsonian for more than an hour and a half on Tuesday night. They were grilled
on a number of specific issues, given a chance to criticize the way the SGA is currently being run, and
asked to state their qualifications for office.

Earlier The Davidsonian had decided to break with tradition. For the first time in as long as anyone on the
staff could remember, we had decided to endorse a candidate for student office. But how could we be sure we
were being fair in making our judgment? Since The Davidsonian is the only student newspaper on campus, it seemed grossly
unfair to allow one or two editors to make a snap judgment based on their own personal biases. What we
decided was to set up an editorial board to hear the candidates at length, which would then carefully deliberate before
making an endorsement. We hoped an exhaustive joint interview might lead to a clear-cut decision based on issues, not on
personalities.

Both candidates were told why they were being asked to meet with us. Both said they favored the idea. Almost
as soon as the interview began, distinctions between the two juniors began to blur. Both said that the current SGA
Senate is being competently run, but added that they felt it has somehow lost a sense of direction. Both said
the Senate should be more innovative; the SGA President more enthusiastic about his work. Both said they want to see
Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill fired; both said they think Davidson fraternities should be given more control over who is allowed
to join their ranks. Both tacitly admitted the SGA has no real power to solve Davidson’s mammoth registration problem. Yet,
they added, the Senate must continue to work as closely as possible with Registrar Richard Burts in order to accomplish
whatever it can. They agreed, they agreed, then they agreed again.

To be blunt about the outcome of the interview, both candidates were found to agree with each other on every
issue raised. Not only did they agree in general terms, but they even agreed on specifics. As one senior editor
commented after Jackson and Miller had left the room, “Neither of them convinced me. I was disappointed. I feel almost
cheated.”

Even in terms of qualifications, both candidates were found to be disturbingly similar. Both are hall counselors, both are fraternity
men, and both are SGA insiders. Jackson stressed that he is a two-year veteran of the SGA Senate and current
vice-president. Miller, who is now a senator, stressed that he has wider experience because of his involvement in a number
of campus organizations.

Before voting on who we should endorse, The Davidsonian discussed what we had heard from the candidates for a long
time—for more than an hour. This was the outcome: the editor and senior sports editor voted to endorse Jackson; the
executive editor and senior opinion editor voted to endorse Miller; and the senior news and features editors chose to abstain.
Clearly, it’s going to be the campus’ choice. We urge all students to carefully consider both candidates. Please vote on
Tuesday.

A Responsive Faculty

Forum

To the Editor:

Four years ago the Trustees of Davidson College adopted the policy of seeking national prominence in basketball. At the same
time, the Faculty of Davidson College overwhelmingly voted to deemphasize the intercollegiate athletic program.arguing that it is too expensive to
maintain at its present level and that it is not harmonious with the educational aims of the institution. Recent developments
indicate the Faculty was correct.

1. The conduct of certain football players has created an atmosphere on campus which cannot be tolerated.
2. An article in the March 5th issue of Sports Illustrated concerning our basketball recruiting practices is not the type
of publicity the College can afford. Even though there may be a few errors in the article, it is accurate
enough to be embarrassing.
3. In our judgment, the failure of so many students to receive three courses at Spring registration is directly related
to College priorities in budgeting. Students came up short 500 places. Our sources indicate that the total athletic-physical education budget
runs about $1.3 million; yearly losses are about $750,000. (If these figures are inaccurate, we invite the Trustees and Administration
to correct them.) It would cost $150,000 to hire ten faculty members, providing a potential 600 places for students. We
believe students are paying too high a price for the athletic program.
4. As educational costs increase, it is imperative that additional funds be available for student scholarships based on need; Davidson
is in danger of becoming a college only for the wealthy.
5. The Faculty is distressed over its present economic status. Its salary in constant dollars has declined 15 percent since
1966. Yet, the Faculty has been told that the budget is too tight for substantial Faculty raises. We believe it
is a matter of priorities. We know of no other institution of higher education in the United States which spends
as high a percentage of its budget upon the athletic program. The issue is critical. If Davidson College wishes to
become a first-rate educational institution, it must act now.

Sincerely,
Max E. Polley
R. David Kaylor
Mark I. Davies
John J. Young

Eumenean Resolutions

To the Editor:

These resolutions were unanimously adopted by a full quorum of the membership of the Eumenean Society in open meeting assembled,
Eumenean Hall, 14 March 1979:

1. The students and faculty of Davidson College lack a place where truly free thought is not only accepted but
encouraged. To rectify this deficiency, we open our membership in reaffirmation of our readiness to sponsor liberal debate and serve
as a guarantor of divergent philosophy.
2. We invite all free-thinking members of the student body and faculty to join us in our pursuit of the
truth, without fear of bias due to their lifestyle. We refuse to practice prejudice.
3. We are in favor of securing a greater minority enrollment. We deplore the unwritten policy of the College to
deny equal access to education to individuals on the basis of their heritage. Only by acting can we achieve the
diversity which the Davidson community seems to desire.
4. The question of the existence of the Philanthropic Society is a matter for continued debate.

Sincerely,
The members of the Eumenean Society

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200
words) and clarity.

Editor: Gil Peeples
Executive Editor: Martin Hunter
Business Manager: Ralph Lasley
Managing Editor: Dennis McLawhorn
Senior News Editor: Merideth Durden
Senior Features Editor: Barry Sachyen
Senior Sports Editor: George Murdaugh
Senior Opinion Editor: Rick Jenkins
News Editor: Jim Garrett
News Editor: Ann Garner
Features Editor: Bert Mobley
Sports Editor: Sheri Gravett
Opinion Editor: Margaret Jackson
News Graphics Editor: Margaret Hunter
Features Graphics Editor: Otene Odom
Sports Graphics Editor: Ann Sheatter
Opinion Graphics Editor: Larry Morton
Advertising Manager: Karen Long
Circulation Manager: Ann Garner
Research Director: Ann Garner
