2—The Davidsonian—September 21, 1979

Anti-nukes plan trip to Barnwell
BY TIM DWIGHT
Staff Writer

Anti-nuclear professors, including a group from Davidson, will go to Barnwell, South Carolina, on Saturday, September 29 for a three-day
rally against nuclear energy. The rally, called Barnwell II, will include an alternative energy fair.

Barnwell II is sponsored by the Southeastern Natural Guard, a coalition of anti-nuclear and pro-solar energy activists. Junior Brad Kerr,
a veteran of the Barnwell protest of Spring 1978, said, “The rally will be a tremendous learning experience for anyone
interested in the issue.”

According to Geof Little, president of the Davidson Energy Study, the protestors plan to trespass on at least two of
the three nuclear dumping facilities within five miles of Barnwell: Chemical Nuclear Systems, Allied General Nuclear Services, and the Savannah
River Plant. Seventy-five percent of all the nuclear waste in the country is stored in these three plants.

On the 29th, alternative energy exhibits will be discussed at an Appropriate Technology Community Fair. The next day, the professors
will march to the three nuclear dumping facilities near Barnwell and present petitions to the owners asking them to stop
operating the plants.

On the 1st, many of the protestors will give a “human petition” by crossing over the fence onto the nuclear
plants’ land. They expect to be arrested, said Little.

Center to open in December
BY SCOTT EBLIN
Staff Correspondent

A new shopping center will open in Davidson in mid-December, according to Louis Fein of Shamrock Realty. It will be
located off Griffith Street between Railroad and Watson Streets.

Fein said that the opening of six businesses in the center “will hopefully take place before the Christmas holidays.” Three
businesses—Lowe’s Supermarket, Cornwell’s Drugstore, and Havelos’ Family Restaurant—have already signed leases to occupy the shopping center. According to Fein, the
other three vacancies might be filled by a gift shop, a record store, a hair styling shop, or “anything that
would complement the college.”

(Continued from page 1)
Will Terry decided to suspend the athlete for this fall term. The athlete appealed to the Review Board, however, and
was granted the postponement.

Had Terry's original sentence stood, the athlete would have missed his sport’s season for this year.

Schuh said that the letter will attempt to give the Review Board's reasons for its decision to postpone the sentence.
He stressed that the letter will not contain the specifics of the case, including the athlete’s name. He said, “We
feel that this issue must be brought out, but we must respect the individual’s right to privacy.”

Schuh declined comment on the original decision except to say that the Review Board “acted totally within the Code.”

Schuh said that although he could not be certain, “I think the Executive Committee was satisfied with our explanation of
the decision.” College President Samuel Spencer, also Chairman of the Committee, said only, “The Executive Committee took no action and
has no comment.” All other faculty and administrators contacted declined comment.

Clarification

In last week’s story entitled “Review Board,” we stated, “The committee also recommended that the three employees be returned to
their original jobs after such time had passed as decided by their superiors.” In fact, the Grievance Committee recommended that
only one employee be returned to his former job. This correction is made to clarify the committee’s actual recommendation.

College basketball isn’t a game, it’s a business. A tough, vicious, cut-throat business.

The story of a winner

From Warner Bros. @ A Warner Communications Company

Friday, Sept. 21 Love Auditorium 8:15 & 10:30 $1.50 or Season Pass

Parks Rexall Drugs
COMPLETE PRESCRIPTION SERVICE
Hours: 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Weekly
892-0208
Sunday 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.

What Do You Want From College?

Job Opportunity? Add It To Your Schedule.

You’re working on a college degree to get started in life. You can reinforce that degree and get a better
start through Army ROTC.

Army ROTC offers you management training, leadership experience, and a commission as an Army officer. Extra credentials that will set
you apart in the job market.

Army ROTC also offers you new opportunities in life after college—part-time leadership as a Reserve officer while employed in the
civilian community or full-time active duty at a competitive starting salary.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:
CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170
