THE DAVIDSONIAN F 1914

The Office that isn’t Academic

Vice-President Price Zimmermann had a point last week when he said Davidson can't afford to hire a full-time director for its rather nebulous, and presently somewhat nonexistent, Office of International Education. Hiring anyone with a title and credentials would mean spending money that the school might put to better use elsewhere—funding for a small private college is a ticklish thing and involves a lot more than applying for fat corporate grants. Unquestionably, it is wise for the administration to be cautious in dealing with budgetary matters.

Yet, paradoxically, we wonder whether Davidson can afford not to hire a full-time director for its successful Junior Year Abroad and foreign study programs, a director who could also help the foreign students who study here adjust to the complex problems of life at Davidson. At last count, there were more than 11 people running the international education program (Admissions Counselor Tony Boon, Asst. Dean of Students Sue Ross, Director of Experiential Programs Ken Wood, Housing Director Scotty Nicholis, German Professor Julius Winkler, History Professor Malcolm Lester, Classics Professor George Labban, Art Professor Larry Ligo, Spanish Professor Lois Kemp, Religion Professor David Kaylor and several others) and the communication between them seemed none too enviable.

Many administrators and professors now have to spend an unreasonable amount of time doing paperwork for the international education program. And they aren't the only ones complaining. Students who have traveled abroad under the auspices of the college generally say they were pleased by their experiences but at least somewhat disappointed in the way Davidson treated them. They complain of being discouraged while at Davidson and ignored while abroad. Foreign students who come to Davidson also are having their problems under the present system.

A suggestion: Why not hire Boon to be full-time director of the program? He can make up in enthusiasm what he lacks in credentials. And from another perspective, his very lack of credentials could be looked upon as an asset (if budgetary concerns really are what's keeping the college from hiring a full-time director), because he would not be in the position to demand the extravagant salary an expert might want. Boon is himself a Davidson graduate and a one-time participant in the Junior Year Abroad in Germany program. He is a hard worker and would do a good job.

As for Boon’s responsibilities in the Admissions Office, why not hire a Davidson Senior to spend his year after graduation working for Dean of Admissions H. Edmunds White? There are presently many more seniors who apply for such one-year post-graduation stints than there are positions available. Not everybody can be Assistant to the President or would even want to be, and presently there is only one opening in the Admissions Office each year for seniors to get their hands on.

Hiring a senior would have two advantages. The college wouldn’t have to pay a recent graduate as much as it has to pay Boon for doing his present job, and that would be an additional budgetary justification for giving Boon the directorship. Secondly, recent graduates are still young enough to have a strong rapport with high school seniors who are thinking of coming to Davidson. Hiring Boon and a senior would get around Zimmermann’s objection, would help students who are desperate to do something different (whether that means spending a year in Germany or in the Admissions Office), and would be less confusing to foreign students.here, and would also save some professors from having to spend their time doing paperwork when they could be preparing for their classes.

* No Thanks: I Don't Do Tzeds.

To the Editor:

This letter is to announce the formation of a new award to be given annually at Spring Convocation by Davidson's Omicron Delta Kappa chapter. It is intended to enhance the student's academic and cultural experience by members of Davidson’s faculty. In establishing this award, we seek to complement the traditional Jeffersonian Award which, in addition to honoring a professor as an embodiment of Jefferson's ideals, acknowledges scholarly achievements and contributions to the administrative functioning of the college. The ODK award will focus more directly upon a professor’s personal and professional relations with students.

A further distinction of this award rests on its selection process in which a committee composed almost entirely of students will choose the recipient. The selection committee will consist of seven members of ODK (all seniors), the sophomore and junior class presidents, and two members (in the future, the two most recent recipients of the award). Nominating a professor will require a reasonable amount of time and serious thought on the part of a student. Nomination forms will be available beginning February 12, at the Union desk, the library, and the Dean of Students’ office. Any student can submit a recommendation. These forms must be completed by March 16. All material received will be held in complete confidence.

In addition to a description of his or her academic and extracurricular involvement with the nominee, a student must include a personal evaluation of the professor’s strengths and weaknesses in the following areas:
1) Respect for and interest in students as individuals;
2) Ability to successfully challenge students in both academic and non-academic endeavors;
3) Apparent confidence and competence in subject matter, and enthusiasm and effectiveness in communicating knowledge—accompanied by a continuing commitment to improve such competency and effectiveness;
4) Significant contributions to extracurricular student activities and community affairs;
5) Fairness and thoroughness in evaluation of students;
6) Availability to students.

We hope that students will utilize this opportunity to honor those professors who have greatly influenced them. We also hope that the recognition of excellence within the faculty will encourage others to excel and thereby strengthen our institution.

WDAV

To the Editor:

I especially enjoyed WDAV's classical music during the closing minutes of the Davidson-Wake Forest basketball game.

David Piper '79

To the Editor:

WDAV’s new format is a welcome change and a much-needed addition to our community. For that, I am grateful. However, as a continual listener to the station, I am appalled by the apparent musical ignorance of the announcers. The names of composers and artists as well as compositions are mutilated constantly! Can these announcers not check their pronunciations with a dictionary before they broadcast? Such amateurish performances are not worthy of Davidson or of the station.

Rosemary Klein
Davidson

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200 words) and clarity.

Mark Barrett, Asst. News Editor
Denise Forace, Asst. Features Editor
Howard Browne, Asst. News Graphics Editor
Lynn McClintock, Asst. Features Graphics Editor
Tandy Gilliland, Asst. Sports Graphics Editor
Alicky Watson, Asst. Circulation Manager
Tonya Boytston, Asst. Production Manager
Don Caldwell, Asst. Director
Phil Howerton, Asst. Photography Director
Bill Purcell, Asst. Photography Director