By CAROLE LOPTSON
Staff Writer

Wednesday’s run-offs elected freshman class senators and members of the Council of Campus and Religious Life (CCRL), rounding out the elections which began on Tuesday. Bob Klein won the presidency of the freshman class, and Donna Iles and Stuart Dorsett took the senatorial positions. Freshman Mary Windham and sophomores John Peebles and Jack Hall won the spots on the CCRL.

Class senator races, particularly in the freshman class, which had ten candidates, and the CCRL race, with nine candidates, were the most crowded. After Tuesday’s voting, the top four candidates in these two races went on to run-offs Wednesday, with three candidates elected in each race.

On Tuesday, juniors Rob Hull and Tim Stoll won the election for student solicitor, junior Andy Williams landed the position of defense advisor, and juniors Ernie Reigel and Laura Michael were elected as members of the Review Board. Anne Eglin, a junior elected as Student Conduct Council member, pointed out that often people vote for people they know to have been successful in similar positions in the past.

Kaylor fears that apathy threatens India Semester Program
By MARK BARRETT
Asst. News Editor

Despite a “very encouraging” grant from the U.S. Office of Education, the first session of Davidson and UNCC’s Semester in India may be canceled for lack of students. According to Religion Professor David Kaylor, the four-month program has received only eleven applications to date, and just one from a Davidson student.

The program will consist of preliminary readings, a two-week orientation period at UNCC, ten and one-half weeks of study at Madras University (located in the city of Madras, in southern India), four weeks of study at historical and cultural sites across India, and two weeks of individual travel and study in India. Kaylor added he hopes the new grant, which could be up to $30,000 depending on the number of participants in the program, will attract more applications. He explained the grant will reduce the cost of the program to students to $2,300 for the four-month period, roughly the same amount as it costs to attend Davidson for the same length of time. Before the grant was received in mid-March, students had been told the program would cost them approximately $3,500.

In order to allow for new applicants, Kaylor said the application deadline has been reset for May 1. Kaylor noted that if the program cannot be held this coming fall, the grant would be lost, and students would likely have to pay $3,500 in order to attend the following year. He said the grant could probably be

By Stephen Ennis

Donkey’s birthday party tradition dies on UT campus
AUSTIN, TX (CPS)—Eeyore, the doleful donkey in A.A. Milne’s Winnie the Pooh, won't have a birthday celebration this year. The University of Texas English professor who started the annual party 15 years ago has said, “Enough, already.”

Dr. James B. Ayres, the professor, acquired two kegs of beer and invited 50 friends to Eastwoods Park (a neighborhood park near the UT campus) to share them with him one April weekend in 1964. Somewhere along the way the party moved to Pease Park—two square miles of space. Last year 14,000 persons helped Dr. Ayres consume 220 kegs of beer and wanted more.

“These people not only want something for nothing, they want everything for nothing,” said Dr. Ayres, as he announced that Eeyore won’t have a birthday party this year. He figures that if he could start the celebration, he can stop it.

He says he used to get dozens of phone calls in February and March offering assistance with Eeyore’s party. This year he has had only one such call. Dr. Ayres’ memory is long, too. He can’t forget last year. After all the balloons had burst, after all the beer had been swigged, he was the only person at Pease Park the next day to clean up the mess.

Something is wrong with the rites of spring, he says, when pumps and kegs are stolen from the beer suppliers, and brand-new garbage cans furnished by the city are crushed beyond use after being used as drums for unearthly “music.”

While Dr. Ayres was out cleaning up the park last year—alone—he found a $20 bill. “I felt it should be mine,” he says, “so I put it in my pocket.”

Dr. Ayres is adamant that there will be no public party that he has anything to do with, but “some Friday in April I may get some beer and sneakOut with some friends to Eastwoods Park, and celebrate spring like we used to do it.”

Unpopular governor cancels appearance to avoid pie

AMHERST, MA (CPS)—Massachusetts Governor Edward King cancelled a scheduled March 30 appearance at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst because he was afraid of being hit with a pie. “Students have a right to express themselves,” King explained to the press, “but it was needless to go up there. It’s a long day, and we couldn’t afford to get pie all over our clothes.”

Two thousand students protested at the Student Union, where King had been slated to speak, over cuts in the state’s higher education budget. King is also unpopular with the students here because of his successful effort to raise the drinking age in the state, and because of his support of nuclear power. Students at the rally shouted “Send King to Harrisburg” before beginning a march across campus and dispersing.

In the fall of 1977, then-Governor Michael Dukakis was pied on the UMass-Amherst campus. It was the last time a governor had appeared on the campus.

Retained if the program is successful this year. Student fees will cover all expenses except incidents and individual student travel. Kaylor said he was disappointed at the number of applicants for the program, saying he had “hoped for at least two or three applicants from Davidson, and in general, enough to allow us to conduct the program.” He stressed, however, that the program would be held if at all possible, that is, if fifteen interested students can be found.

He said he could only speculate as to why the number of applications has been so low, but cited the primary Western bent of American education and the natural “fear of the unknown” as possible factors. Kaylor said the program should be very worthwhile and added, “A good education should include some exposure to a culture other than one’s own. Students particularly need exposure to a third world country, which the program will offer. We often learn much about ourselves when we encounter a culture different from our own. The Indian culture is one of the oldest continuously existing ones in the world, and has an extremely rich and diverse tradition certainly worth close study.”

Eglin also commented on the bewildering number of offices and candidates in this election. “I think next time somebody should come out with something to explain what all the different offices are so people know what they’re voting on.” Also, Eglin felt it would be good “if somebody worked on getting people out to vote.”

Dorsett, another newly elected freshman senator, complained that the elections were at an inopportune time, so close to mid-terms and Spring Frolics. He said, “I really had to push myself to campaign at Mt Baa.”

Next year’s senior class elected Michael Busch president and Jim Haynes and Jeff Stidham as senators. For next year’s junior class, Kevin Pressley was elected president. Ron Davis and Vincent Long were elected senators.

Windham spent much of her campaigning time explaining what the CCRL does and emphasizing how much power it has because she found “a lot of freshmen just haven’t heard of it.” Windham thinks she will help balance the representation on the CCRL as the only rising sophomore and only woman elected this year to the Council.

Sara Stoneburner and Anne Eglin were elected to the Student Conduct Council. Because elections for the SCC are new (members used to be appointed) Eglin speculated, “I don’t know if very many people knew what they were voting for. There weren’t really any issues so nobody really campaigned. Where there really isn’t an issue, I guess people do vote for a name they know.”

Bill Casty tells why Red Cross needs your type of blood. “Every day of the week,” there’s somebody who needs your type of blood. “But the thing about blood is: it doesn’t keep very long. Which means we’ve got to keep the supply coming constantly. Donors are needed every day. Sorry to say, there are never enough donors. In fact, five people out of every 100 are doing the whole job.”

AMERICAN RED CROSS CAMPAIGN NEWSPAPER AD NO. ARC-79-938/C—4 COL. 30d.

That’s right, five percent of the people give 100 percent of the blood that’s donated. “If you’re between 17 and 61, and generally healthy, you can help change all that. And your one blood donation can help up to five people to live. “Call your Red Cross Blood Center and make a donor appointment soon. Here’s one way you can help keep Red Cross ready to help others.”

Keep Red Cross ready.