**Literary Magazines**
Gill Holland

This morning I read for the first time “The Glory of His Nostrils,” which along with “The Mother-in-Law,” also from
*Beasts of the Southern Wild and Other Stories*, has my instant vote for great short stories of North Carolina in
the seventies. It is an outrageous love story about widow Wanda Quincey and Dr. O.B. Benjamin (“Courtesy Title Only,” his
card reads), erstwhile abortionist and defrocked MD, two very yeasty types you should skip if you want something in the
genteel tradition. The author is Doris Betts, teacher and administrator at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and
judge of the 1979 Vereen Bell Creative Writing Contest for Davidson students. She will make the awards and give a
reading of her work at four o’clock on Tuesday, April 24th, in the 900 Room. Mrs. Betts enjoys a national
reputation as a writer and we are fortunate to have her on campus. As former director of the freshman-sophomore English
program at UNC-CH and present assistant dean of the honors program of the University, she symbolizes the all-important axiom that
the so-called “creative genres” like fiction, poetry, and drama go hand-in-hand with basic essay-writing and that good writing is good
writing whatever form it takes.

My first memories of writing at Davidson do not go back to the year Robert Frost was the Vereen Bell
judge, but they do reach the final years of the old Sigma Upsilon writing fraternity in the early sixties. By
then a good manuscript voted on by the members won you entrance into the group; Professor Cornwell tells me that
in his student days one had to be invited to join. Under both systems it was a prestigious club. Supported
by students and faculty alike, it met first in the various fraternity houses and later had its home in one
of the Jackson Court houses now inhabited by the math people. If my memory serves me correctly, we also met
in Erwin Lodge, now a ballet studio where dancers practice under a ceiling that once echoed the poems and fiction
of the month as well as the latest installment of the running novel that was passed from member to member
as a challenge to individual devilment. The monthly new chapter by a fresh hand usually forced on the preceding ones
bizarre transmogrifications that now can be found only in the gothic humor behind topical guides to courses at the college.

By the late sixties, the writing fraternity had vanished and a group met informally in faculty homes; today it occasionally
gathers in the 900 Room. From the early years to the present, the climax of campus writing has been the
Vereen Bell Contest, a memorial to a promising Davidson graduate who died in World War II. In former years, subsequent
to the awards ceremony, the prize-winning authors read their manuscripts in chapel before the whole school. Today they read at
the informal get-together of local poets and poetasters—all of whom are urged to read something of their own to the
crowd—in the evening after the four o'clock ceremony and the dinner for the visiting judge and winners. The quality of
writing has remained high; I can remember vividly a powerful story about the advent and departure of an oil-drilling company
to a small Louisiana town read back in the days of chapel, and I know of several of us who
still talk about another story read not so long ago in the 900 Room on the evening of awards day.

For the most part, student writing has been encouraged through the years by informal readings, independent projects under the rubric
of English, and student work on *The Miscellany*. Professor Purcell, during his chairmanship, took a special interest in promoting student
writing. Now, with the new R. Windley Hall Award for Freshman Writing and a creative writing course taught by Professor
Abbott, writing can gain even more ground at Davidson. It might be added that a bit of glamour was added
for this class when senior Steve Turner won the Charlotte Writer’s Contest for Poetry, a neighborhood plum picked by Davidsonians
before, notably by President Sam Spencer a few years back.

The first issue of *Hobart’s Park* (delightful title!) shows much promise as a cross-section of writing from the different faces
of life at Davidson. Politics, biology, stories, poems, essays, and reviews—I leafed through it all with enthusiasm and anticipation. The
level of writing comes across as being quite high for this initial venture. Editors Lyman Collins, Amanda Hall, and Greg
Hankins are to be congratulated on getting the whole project off the ground and, with their lieutenants, laying before us
good reading matter from the campus. The graphics give us a taste of whatmight be in the future; the selection
is praiseworthy too. But as far as appearance goes, in my opinion, Hobart’s Park is still a venture of promise
rather than final achievement. Final editorial finish has to be better before future readers are to pay much respect to
this publication. The graphics suffered terribly in reproduction. It is hard to appreciate good drawings and photographs and writing if
typos and misspellings and the dimness of the prints short-circuit our attention as we look for things to please and
instruct us. The impression around campus was that the magazine did not get the praise its contents warranted because not
enough care had been taken in proofreading and printing at the final stage. One reason to keep high hopes for
Hobart's Park is that we need a record of the intellectual and artistic activities of the college year to year.
Here is the space for that. We all want to read a selection of the best from the Vereen Bell
and R. Windley Hall contests each spring. We want to read what the new interest in local oral history brings
up. Old timers are a rich vein here as elsewhere, good material no farther away than a tape recorder and
a few hours of pleasurable listening. I’d bet there is plenty left on the cutting room floor from Dr. Mary
Beaty’s just completed book on the town of Davidson. Hobart's Park could help give us a sense of place. It
could also provide a delightful visual record of the shows in the Gallery. It is a pity when a show
goes down all that is left is the poster, not even an interview with the artist or a gallery talk.
There are only a few memories left of alumnus Ken Freed’s exhibition this winter; soon Russ Warren’s show will be
off the walls. Of course, the problem reaches beyond the scope of one publication to the larger area of a
record of life at Davidson. Guest lecturers, for whom plenty of well-spent money goes out every year, probably leave the
campus wondering why more use has not been made of the text of talks read before a Davidson audience.

April 20, 1979—The Davidsonian (Gia Partain)

Miss Eva’s Cathouse
Bill Peeples

Many folks have read or heard of little old ladies with houses full of cats, but few have ever known
such women. One such person, Miss Eva Russell, not only managed a house piled high with felines, but a confrontation
with the president of the United States as well. Back when Lyndon Johnson was in the White House, the Feds
wanted to tear her house down to build a parking lot for a new Post Office. When surveyors put up
stakes in her backyard, she was furious. Miss Russell went out back and pulled up the markers, which made good
firewood. Each time new stakes appeared she removed them. Her most impressive strategy in the campaign to save her house
was conducted over the telephone. Every night for weeks, she called Lyndon Johnson, but the White House switchboard refused to
connect her. Time and again she called, and one night the President finally picked up the phone. He assured her
that her house would not be harmed. For over ten years, she remained secluded in her dark abode, surrounded by
nearly a hundred cats that weren’t disposed of because the place hadn’t been cleaned in years. The mailmen were scared
to go to the front door. No one could figure out why Miss Russell, who claimed descent from William the
Conqueror, chose to live as she did. She certainly did not have to for financial reasons. Her father had been
a wealthy man, and he left her quite a fortune. She inherited a great deal of property, including the freshwater
spring that was at one time the local swimming hole, “Russell’s Pool.” She had no heirs, and everyone wondered who
she might leave her property to. The Postal Service thought it might just have the last laugh. Anyhow, as Eva
grew older, the city fathers began to speculate. When she finally passed away and her will was disclosed, the city
fathers were taken aback. The bequest included several stipulations. For one, the house could not be destroyed. The cats had
to be cared for and were free to occupy the premises. Most of all, Miss Russell intended her house to
be open to the entire community twenty-four hours a day because, as the will stated, “everybody needs a laughing place.”
