6—The Davidsonian—September 28, 1979.

| Sports Scripts

Field Hockey

The Davidson women on the field hockey team posted a 4-0 victory over Winthrop Tuesday for the first home game of the year. Lisa Ballantyne led the attack with two goals followed by Golly Craig and Carol Heppner with one goal each.

The team left the first half with a 1-0 lead and tasted Davidson's first-ever win over Winthrop. The final half proved the result as the defense drove the ball forward, and the attack rushed in on the goal to bring the final score to a 4-0 shut-out.

The Wildcats met Clemson today (Thursday). The team travels to Appalachia and Pfeiffer Saturday. Monday, the Wildcats play Catawba in an away game.

Soccer

Davidson's soccer team exploded for seven second-half goals in their 7-0 victory against Presbyterian College last Thursday. C.K. Nichols, the only starter to score, opened the barrage with a shot that skimmed in off the post. Hall Barnett then scored twice in the short space of three minutes. Then, with all the starters removed, the substitutes had a field day. Tom Schember, Mike Lockwood, and Peter Hairston all scored. With the final ten seconds ticking off, Schember scored again for Davidson’s seventh goal.

Saturday, Davidson traveled to St. Andrews, and never seemed to get on track in the 2-0 loss. The Wildcats were unable to ‘finish’ and came up scoreless in a game which saw players collapsing in the heat and humidity.

Monday, Davidson took on a tough East Carolina team in a constant drizzle making the ball slick and hard to control. Losing 2-1, the Cats advanced and in the final thirty minutes played with an intensity and flair that had E.C.U. on the run. Bill Whal scored the Davidson tally, a header on C.K. Nichol’s corner kick.

North Carolina State brought their powerful ranked team to Davidson Wednesday, and again Davidson played in a constant drizzle. The 5-1 score is no indication of the degree of good play displayed by the overpowered Wildcats. Again the team came on with a maturity that should carry the soccer team into future victories. C.K. Nichols scored Davidson’s goal.

This week Davidson plays Western Carolina Saturday and Washington and Lee Wednesday. Both are home games.

—TED JONES

The men’s cross country team easily defeated both UNC-Charlotte and Wingate College on a rain-soaked UNCC course Saturday, boosting its dual meet record to 3-1.

Senior Captain George Strobel led the Davidson harriers, who boasted five of the seven top finishers, for the second week in a row. Jeff Morrow, Danny Armistead, and Bart Landess finished close behind Strobel and hard-working senior Vasili Carperos took the fifth team spot.

“Things are definitely looking good,” says Coach Norman Koller of the team’s efforts so far. Stiff competition faces the Wildcats this weekend, however, as they travel to Lynchburg for a meet against Lynchburg College and Eastern Mennonite.

Both schools annually field strong teams, and Eastern Mennonite is considered one of the top Division III schools in the country.

—BUCK BRADBERRY

Women’s Cross Country

The women’s cross country team travels to Lynchburg College this Saturday to square off in their first dual meet of the season. Coach Sally Bondurant’s harriers are coming off what she said was a surprising showing in the Stone Mountain Road Race where they beat Georgia State but finished second to Berry College.

The team approaches Lynchburg nursing some injuries and illnesses. To prevent further injuries but maintain conditioning, they have been alternating easy and hard training days. Bondurant has an optimistic outlook, though, and said, “Our desire and motivation is good despite the setbacks we've suffered due to injuries.”

Davidson’s home course meet against Georgia State is set for October 13th, and another meet, unconfirmed at press time, is the North Carolina AIWA state meet on October 20th.

—TOM PAFFORD

“The Goodbye Girl” is a joyous comedy — just what the doctor ordered. Neil Simon makes feeling good legal...”

GENE SHAIT, NBC TV

“ONE OF THE BEST PICTURES OF THE YEAR”

TIME MAGAZINE

RICHARD DREYFUSS - MARSHA MASON and introducing QUINN CUMMINGS as Lucy

PG. GUIDANCE SUGGESTED

Friday, Sept. 28 “Love Auditorium 8:15 & 10:30 $1.50 or Season Pass”

New Wildcat Checking Plan

Davidson students 3 ways.

Piedmont Bank & Trust Co. has developed a new Wildcat Checking plan just for Davidson students. Here’s what it gives you:

1. Simplified checking. You can write up to 10 checks a month for only $2 a month. There’s no minimum balance, and additional checks are only 20¢. When you take a summer vacation, there’s no charge at all if you don’t use your account.

2. Convenient statements. Each month you'll get detailed statements of your checking account activities.

Only Piedmont Bank offers you all three of these benefits. Walk across Main Street today and open your own Wildcat Checking account. See what we mean when we say “We Care.”