C. Shaw Smith relaxes in his "in the sky" parlor.

Parkerson challenges Academy, proposes project on cigarettes

By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

John Parkerson, a senior biology major at Davidson, recently challenged a roomful of pipe and cigarette-smoking scientists: "If any of you as rational scientists can sit there and tell me that smoking is healthy, please tell me—I'm all ears." Parkerson said that in reaction to his challenge, "Every face dropped; every cigarette went out. They all looked at me like, 'Who are you?'"

Parkerson, the president of the Collegiate Academy of the North Carolina Academy of Science (NCAS), addressed the NCAS board of directors on Jan. 27. At this meeting, he asked that the Academy concern themselves with the issue of tobacco use in North Carolina. His proposal asks that the Academy: 1) affirm the Surgeon General's Report, 2) educate the people of the state concerning the hazards of smoking, and 3) search for economic alternatives to tobacco.

According to Parkerson, this would be an ideal project by which NCAS, an organization of high school, college, and professional scientists, can further its goal of interpreting scientific issues for the benefit of laypeople in the state. His concern is shared; the Charlotte Observer, Parkerson says, plans to run a series on smoking during the month of March. Further action will be taken at the next meeting of NCAS on March 30, when Parkerson will resubmit his proposal as a more formal resolution.

Despite the possible impact of his project, Parkerson says that the Academy's interest in public affairs is secondary to its main function—that of a forum for the presentation of research in various scientific areas. At the March meeting, high school, college, and professional scientists will read their research papers. Carlton Jenkins, another senior biology major, will present his paper entitled "Gross and Functional Morphology of the Heart of Amphiuma means" (the salamander). Last year, four or five papers were presented by Davidson students but, according to Parkerson, not much research has been done here this year. Several other Davidson students are closely involved with the Academy. Senior Beth DuBose is the historian and senior Fred Weber is the vice-president. They are affiliated by way of the Biology Department, the only science department at Davidson which belongs to the Academy.

Smith "fast catching on" after 26 years

By BILL PEEPLES
Senior Features Editor

"Did you bring a cigar to share with me?" asked College Union Director C. Shaw Smith as I seated myself in his spacious office. I produced a slender King Edward, a wonderful device to break the ice. When asked how long he had been at his Davidson job, Smith replied, "Twenty-six years, and I'm fast catching on."

A quarter of a century at Davidson has provided Smith with an office that resembles the glass booth with two-way mirrors like caserators have in the Union. From it, Smith can see just about anything happening in the Union. He sees to it that an awful lot of things do happen. Considering the size of the student body and the overall entertainment budget, one of Smith's biggest problems is bringing "big name" performers to Davidson. This obstacle is often overcome by the appeal Davidson has to various celebrities. John McKuen, who demands high fees elsewhere, comes to Davidson for reimbursement of expenses and nothing more. "They like the treatment, and word gets around," said Smith. For instance, three years ago McKuen tentatively arranged for fellow banjo player Steve Martin to come for $600. "Back then of course, we had never heard of him, and we just didn't follow up on it. Now he wants $200,000 or something like that for a single performance," disclosed Smith, with tears in his eyes.

Guest speakers are a delight to bring to Davidson, mainly because Davidson officials demand more for the money. "Sydney Harris complained that we worked his tail off," Smith said, but he is returning this spring for another rigorous visit. For two solid days, speakers drag themselves to eight o'clock classes, endure the conversation pit at ten, eat brown lettuce and yogurt at Minorities luncheons, speak in the afternoon and evening, and finally return to the Guest House for Geritol and some shut-eye. Most seem to enjoy this type of schedule. "Sydney Harris went to one eight o'clock class and told the students that they were a bunch of damn fools for getting up so early. 'You're college students and can choose later classes if you want to,' he said. The professor didn't think it was funny, though, and really got mad," Smith noted.

Buckminster Fuller was another speaker who took his Davidson stint seriously. "He was giving a lecture up in, what do you call the Dome Room, Perkins Auditorium is it, in a unique stream of consciousness style that goes on forever. The bell rang for eleven o'clock class, and students started to leave. 'Sit down,' he said. He was just getting warmed up. 'Why, you can go to class...'"any day, but you may never have the chance to hear me speak again." Smith has come a long way since the days that he and a secretary ran the College Union alone. "My office used to be behind the desk, and I worked the desk myself most of the time. Anytime someone had the slightest problem, there I was caught in the middle. Though I didn't realize it at the time, I just wasn’t getting a bit of work done." Now C. Shaw, as he prefers to be called, commands an impressive institution with a sizable staff. "I love the in-the-sky parlour," as he fondly describes his new office. Aside from speakers and performers, he discussed some of the more controversial issues that surround the Union’s function. Leading up to problems concerning the role and use of the 900 Room, he talked about the Davidson of old. "Even in the days when the rules and regs were tight and a person could be expelled for drinking on campus, it never stopped anybody. There was an old hotel in Charlotte where everybody used to go and get soused on the weekends. If the Dean of Students had walked in there back then, he would have had to kick out half the student body." Controlling it was left up to the students themselves. When the 900 Room first opened, unforeseen problems arose that were corrected in about a year. "We had to establish policies about containing beer in the 900 Room," he said, whereas at first anyone could take a cup of beer out of the Union. The idea of checking I.D.'s arose not as a means of patrolling Davidson students, but of protecting their right to use the place. "Right now, there are (see Shaw, page 12)

Asbury Jukes produce emotional, driving, Jersey-style rock and roll
By JIM VITHA
Staff Correspondent

The advent of disco music as a veritable American institution in popular music has left the old-time rock and roller searching desperately for an outlet for his pent-up musical energies. Recently, however, there have been many groups and individuals who display admirable efforts at satisfying the needs of performers such as Bruce Springsteen, Bob Seger, Elvis Costello, and the Rolling Stones have all enjoyed tremendous popularity with recent albums and concert tours. One other group that certainly fits the mold of the true rock and roll band is Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes; their latest album "Hearts of Stone" does little to dispel this image. Born out of the bar scene at the New Jersey shore, along with another Jersey hero Bruce Springsteen, the Jukes play a type of music that is hard-driving, filled with gut feelings and laden with rhythm and blues. Images of bar-based blues and Phil Spector’s triumphs fill the Jukes’ music with much force. In fact, on the Jukes’ first album, "I Don’t Want to Go Home," Ronnie Spector, wife of Phil Spector and former leader of the Ronettes, collaborated with the Jukes on a Bruce Springsteen song, "You Mean So Much to Me," and frequently appears with the Jukes in concert. "Hearts of Stone" is similar to the two other Jukes’ albums, "I Don’t Want to Go Home" and "This Time It’s For Real": the music has the same base, rhythm and blues, and the instrumentation is quite similar. However, "Hearts of Stone" contains all original songs, eight written by Steve Van Zandt, the Jukes’ producer and Bruce Springsteen’s guitarist, and two written by Springsteen himself. In the past, the Jukes have used old standard songs in their albums as well as new songs. This fact gives "Hearts of Stone" a fresh perspective and a somewhat new direction for the Jukes. On the opening tune, "Got To Be A Better Way Home" the Jukes blast out with sure-fire horns playing as a solid unit, Southside Johnny singing in his best style and Billy Rush, the lead guitarist, coming up with very solid riffs. This formula runs throughout the album with a couple of ballads added also. On the ballads, especially the title track and "Light Don’t Shine," Southside Johnny displays his greatest talent. He has an ability to reach deep inside and sing in a style that cuts across conventional rock and roll singing and simply puts forth pure emotion in a captivating way. Other important features of this album are the Miami Horns and guitarist Billy Rush. The five Miami Horns distinctively set off the Jukes with their very tight melodic lines that are played with a driving style and as a single unit. In the past, Billy Rush has remained in the background, being used as an occasional addition to the horns and playing in a rhythm guitar mold. However, Rush now plays in a way which proves that he can be used to supply the melodic line himself and provide solos of his own. One problem with "Hearts of Stone" takes the form of a conflict of interest. The Jukes are desperately trying to prove themselves as a solid recording unit and this excessive energy can result in songs that are not true to the Asbury Jukes’ nature. (see Jukes, page 12)