. 6—The Davidsonian—February 16, 1979

Her piano studies began at age seven. She later went on to study at Oberlin and received her Master of Music degree from Juilliard.

As winner of the first prize in North Carolina Symphony auditions, she made a solo appearance with the North Carolina Symphony. Also, as a 1973 winner of the Concert Artists Guild Auditions, she presented a successful New York debut at Carnegie Recital Hall.

Other awards bestowed on Ms. Hahn are the first prize in the Kosciuszko Foundation Chopin Competition, and she was a finalist in the 1976 International Leventritt Competition. Besides New York, she has also made successful debuts in Paris and London.

The recital itself will begin with the Ten Variations on Unser Dummer Pabel Meint (“Our Stupid Peasants Say”), by W. A. Mozart. Following this is the well-known Op. 12 of Robert Schumann, the Fantasie in C Major. After intermission, Ms. Hahn will perform the piano sonata of Bela Bartok. A popular Chopin Barcarolle follows, and the program ends with two preludes by Rachmaninoff: the Prelude in b minor, Op. 32, No. 10; and the Prelude in B-flat Major, Op. 23, No. 2.

The recital will be held in Hodson Hall. The time of this performance is 8:15 pm, on Thursday, February 22. Don't miss this chance to hear one of America’s brightest rising young pianists.

By BILL PEEPLES
Senior Features Editor

Professor of English Charles Lloyd wants to talk of nothing but the College Bowl competition these days. He has every right to be preoccupied.

Although Mr. Lloyd refuses to accept responsibility for the team’s recent successes, team captain Tom Ruby and Bowl coordinator William Brown give him credit for pulling the team out of some very tight spots.

In the most recent tournament held last weekend, Chapel Hill was Davidson’s only true competition. The Chapel Hill boys proved that they could be ruthless, and Lloyd turned their unsportsmanlike conduct to Davidson’s advantage.

By shaking hands with each team member Davidson had defeated before going into the final round with Chapel Hill, Lloyd won many converts to the Davidson cause. Since the defeated teams composed the audience for the final round, Lloyd made certain that the folks in the audience would not dare cheer for the University of North Carolina group.

When team captain Ruby permitted another team member to answer a question directly, rather than through the captain, Chapel Hill launched a protest. Lloyd rose and shouted: “That’s our four corners’ offense.”

At another point in the match, Chapel Hill was asked which planet is farthest from the sun. Naturally, the team responded with “Pluto.” Mr. Lloyd, who keeps abreast of current events, stood and announced that since January 25, Neptune moved into a position farthest from the sun due to the elliptical orbit of the planets.

In both instances, observers cheered, and Chapel Hill was at a great psychological disadvantage.

Mr. Lloyd believes that Davidson’s success in the College Bowl is largely due to three factors. “Davidson students are smarter. It may sound conceited, but it is just fact,” he contended.

Second, “the other college teams are handled by big college unions that are small empires consulting with faculty members.” At Davidson, Mr. Lloyd has solicited the faculty for practice questions numerous times. Professors Manning, Randy Nelson, and Epes practice regularly with the team, which Lloyd said “has helped immeasurably.”

Third, with the possible exception of Chapel Hill, none of the teams Davidson played had adequate selection processes for team members or proper training afterwards. Other schools “picked up people on campus who looked smart and said, ‘Do you want to be on the team,’” Lloyd said.

Mr. Lloyd is hesitant to compare the current College Bowl system, now handled by Reader's Digest, with the old General Electric institution. Apparently, Reader’s Digest has not taken as much time in preparing challenging questions as did GE.

The late Robert Earl, former television questioner for General Electric, was a Lloyd favorite. “GE had the finest man in the business. He knew all the questions and answers in advance. If he was surprised at the speed in answering a question, there was a reason to be surprised. He generated excitement that made the teams more competitive,” he revealed.

“Nobody can beat this team if it has the right kind of training between now and the next tournament in April,” Lloyd concluded.

For more information see your travel agent. Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, New York City, 757-8585; in New York State, (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-11552. Or call toll free.

Bargain of Europe
Our bargain price is still the same as before. Just $299 roundtrip from New York to Luxembourg, $149.50 one way. Price includes an excellent dinner, free wine and cognac. No restrictions. Tickets can be purchased anywhere in the U.S.A. and are good for a full year. DC-10 flights leave and return five times weekly.

There has been one other change at Icelandic. We have a brand new symbol and have added “Icelandair” to our name.

For more information see your travel agent. Icelandic Airlines, P.O. Box 105, New York City, 757-8585; in New York State, (800) 442-5910; elsewhere, (800) 223-11552. Or call toll free.

DO NOT MISS
Our Annual Storewide “DOORBUSTER” Event
Thursday Feb. 15th through Saturday Feb. 24th
You'll be glad you came.

DOWNTOWN, MOORESVILLE
Store Hours: 9 AM to 5:30 PM Mon.-Sat.
except closed Tues afternoons.