Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

sputtering larynx.’

When he does crank up, though, his lectures produce intellectual effects comparable to those of saltpeter on Tony Abbott’s sex
drive.

Hal is considered by many a Hilde jock as the best dressed set of Cliff's notes on campus, his soporific,
baritone voice forming a unique tweed blend with his genteel smile and aimless mental wanderings.

Yoder

Professor's Statement:

Il y a un bref temps depuis je suis professeur; parce que je suis si jeune; donc j’apporte de la
fraîcheur et de la vitalité à la classe de français. Je m'amuse par faire beaucoup de gestes et plaisanteries dans
l'idiome de français, et je souris toujours sous ma moustache bien soignée.

Je suis très enthousiaste quand je discute des films et des livres français avec la classe, et la plupart des
étudiants gagnent une assez bonne note s’ils essayent de faire attention en classe et de faire les devoirs. Je suis,
bien sûr, un chic type, et il n'est pas un secret que beaucoup de jeunes filles tombent en chiot-amour avec
moi.

Student Comments:

Since he is young and hasn’t been teaching for a real long time, Dr. Yoder brings a freshness and vitality
to his French class. He enjoys making lots of French jokes and gestures, and he is usually smiling beneath his
well-groomed mustache.

He is very enthusiastic when he discusses French films and books with the class, and most students get good grades
if they try to pay attention in class and do their homework. He is, above all, a nice guy, and
it’s no secret that a lot of girls have a crush on him.

Pinkerton

A most imposing figure when he blow-dries his hair. When he neglects to, the class faces a shiny pate. He
is living proof that natives of Tennessee actually can learn a second language.

Epes

Knew Judas Iscariot was a fascist all along.

Winkler

Wednesday forever.

Wruck

Erich O. J. S. Wruck has the longest name on the faculty, and he also has the biggest head. He
will proudly show anyone his expertly forged international pilot's license, which he earned at age fifteen, such that he holds
the world's record as the youngest licensee.

This war-mongering professor got his start killing people when he dropped napalm on French civilians from his Stuka in 1943.
He is world-renowned for inadvertently sinking the PGA. He came over to the US just so he could enlist in
our Air Force and perhaps be the lucky person to drop an A-bomb on North Korea. The Air Force rejected
him, so he joined the Army instead.

Anyone who takes a Wruck wreck will soon learn that Germany is the best country in the world. Wruck fails
to reveal that his section of Germany is now a Polish heritage. Alas, WWII has reduced this proud Prussian to
a dumb Pollock.

The college would be much better off if a few of the professors followed Boulton’s example and took an extended
vacation.

Professor Edmondson makes more money moonlighting as an anesthesiologist at Presbyterian Hospital than he does as a Davidson professor.

“Divine right of kings and history chairman” is Malcolm Lester Redivivus, PhD, FRHS’s motto. Sometimes it seems as though faculty
members wish they were the historical characters they teach about, for example, Dan Rhodes and the prophet Ezra, Malcolm Partin
and any one of Madame Pompadour’s lovers, Rupert Barber and Tennessee Williams, et al. Malcolm sees himself as an aristocrat.
If you questioned him about this, and if he condescended to answer, he would point to his long golden Phi
Beta Kappa key which really is a symbol of the Jeffersonian Aristocracy of the Mind. He got his PhD at
UVA.

Lester became Chairman of the History Department back when it was the History Department (Frontis and Chalmers, R.I.P.). His reign
has seen the end of the Department as anything but a haven for pre-law types, who agree with him that
the world ended at Appomattox, or when the Liberal Party in England went down the tubes after World War I.
Lester decided that since history ended, historical scholarship also ended, and with the exception of his Dr. Seuss-like book on
Anthony Merry (the early nineteenth-century British Minister to the US—the North Meck Newspaper really called it a book on a
preacher), Lester has done nothing, absolutely nothing for the last twenty years.

But what most don’t know about Lester is that he keeps the Department a man short so that he can
finance a mulatto mistress named Livonia, who lives in a walk-up above a Gospel Star Mission on Trade Street in
Charlotte. Livonia knew when she met Malcolm that he might not be much, but she was sure that his huge
Phi Beta Kappa key portended something underneath. Although somewhat disappointed, and feeling a bit liberated since Roots, she's still loyal
to him, perhaps because he buys her old Supremes costumes and black Cadillacs (and you thought your money was going
to Oxford University Press). Ah, well, that’s the price of noblesse oblige.

“Without my visor,” the Geach once noted, “I feel naked as my wife without her dentures.”

Partin

Malcolm Partin is the “good ol’ boy” of the history department. He will be the first to tell you that
he is an excellent lecturer. Despite his admittance that co-education has toned down some of his presentations a bit, Partin
still manages to inject lots of sexual commentary into his lectures. His Catherine the Great lecture continues to elicit hysterical
ejaculations from his students.

Partin seems to sincerely cherish contact with students. He especially loves to shoot the bull about the basketball program, sex,
drugs (especially alcohol), and the amenities offered by life in Cornelius.

---
