(*Continued from page 1)
tual and moral values are concerned, his dedication and commitment to the ideals of Davidson have often been an inspiration
to each of us. He is a man you can go to with both your academic and personal problems. He
has been a point of sensibility and strength in an otherwise fluctuating situation for Sociology majors. His interest and dedication
to the community at large are well known. He has devoted an enormous amount of time to the cross-country team,
as well as to the Lion's Club and the Wildcat Club. He has also been involved in numerous campus activities
and has always been available to help students organize clubs or groups. One sort of wonders what we'll do without
him.

We do not pretend to be able to assess the relative merits of a professor’s professional attainments, but we do
know that Dr. Koller, along with Dr. Retzer, presented a paper at a professional meeting earlier this year which was
very well received, and that he has submitted papers to the faculty research group, in which he was an active
member.

Another point which may be best treated under professional attainments is the importance of Dr. Koller to the Sociology department.
The department has been in a constant state of flux during our time here, with Dr. Koller the only real
point of stability. For much of the time, we have not had a full department chairman, and the constant hope
of finding new personnel has kept us all in a sort of confusion about what will happen to our majors.
The explanation given to us of working for the good of the department in the long run is not satisfactory.
Furthermore, we feel that in the short run it is a virtual disaster. Dr. Koller is the principal reason many
of us joined the department in the first place, as evidenced by the low number of junior majors, who unlike
the senior majors, had time to get out of the major after hearing about the decision. There are only four
junior majors, counting one in the fourth year of a five-year program. Dr. Koller’s importance is further underscored by the
current head of the department, who has assured us of his vehement protests. Though we are not attempting to derogate
any new faculty which has been or may be hired to replace Dr. Koller, we feel that it will be
almost impossible to find a single individual to fill this enormous gap.

Beyond the incorrectness of the decision in Dr. Koller’s case, we would like to address ourselves to the broader problem
of the evaluation procedure itself. The situation has become so unclear as to give those with paranoid tendencies a belief
in an evil conspiracy. Though we are certainly not subscribing to this notion, there do seem to be some very
disconcerting discrepancies.

Foremost is the question of periodic evaluations. You have stated that there was no system of evaluation in service for
those considered for tenure in 1979. In fact, you have stated that these evaluations “...have not been considered essential.” Yet
the college supposedly subscribes to the American Association of University Professors’ guidelines which plainly state the decision “...must be based
on a continuous evaluation process, during which the probationary candidate is regularly informed of his performance and his prospects.” We
applaud the institution of regular faculty evaluations by Dean Zimmerman, but they were simply not supplied to the aforementioned candidates
of last year. Admittedly, the shifts in the Dean of the Faculty position in the last few years have caused
some confusion, but rather than a reason for denying tenure, this should have been cause for the granting of greater
consideration to those who were not able to benefit from a consistent and stable policy. If Davidson’s commitments have changed,
then that should be stated, nevertheless one should not “...change the rules in the middle of the game,” as Dr.
Retzer said. It is patently unjust to evaluate someone under criteria of which he or she has no knowledge.

In the absence of any structured evaluation procedure, the professors involved had to attempt to diagnose their position by the
means they had available. The fact that they were given contract renewals and substantial raises contributed to their feelings of
security. There seems to be some confusion over this issue. You recently stated that “A contract renewal is not a
tenure decision.” Yet when it was noted that the last tenure refusal was in 1973 you pointed out that a
number of people had been refused contract renewal and tenure at an earlier stage. The problem is that there was
nothing else for these people to utilize as feedback for personal evaluation. All of the feedback Dr. Koller received from
students and faculty was apparently positive.

The degree of student support was evidenced by last year's petitions, in which approximately 700 students evinced their displeasure with
the decision on one petition, and nearly 500 signed their direct support of Dr. Koller on another. This was in
spite of the timing of the issue of the Davidsonian and during the week before exams.

Another point of contention is the explanation of the decision to the professors involved. You have said that those who
question their decision would be granted a chance to discuss the case with the Dean of the Faculty. However, Dr.
Zimmerman, in speaking of these impending meetings, stated that “These conferences will not be celebratory.”

We come to you as Sociology majors because we feel that this gives us some measure of extra insight into
the situation. Thus, on the basis of the above-mentioned facts, we respectfully submit our request for reconsideration of tenure denial
to Dr. Koller, as well as clarification of the tenure procedures, both as they have been and will be followed.
