Ge RRR pre So VGL OH Raton emphasizes the value of a liberal arts education. But there's a problem here:
a liberal arts education is purported to make you think, but in Dr. Nelson's macroeconomics class, the key to a
good grade is not thinking but regurgitating. That’s right! On every review, you better be able to pitch your stomach
so well that all the big pieces of information splatter right down on the page. And if you do start
thinking about macroeconomics, you may ask, "Why, if all of the macroeconomists know so much, are we in such a
hell of an economic mess?" Oh well, you ought to take a class from Dr. Nelson sometime in your long
and illustrious Davidson career if only for the reason that where else on campus will you find a female with
the independence and intelligence not to wear pants like the fellers!

E. Patterson

Professor's Statement: Economics 101 - Introduction to Political Economy

I teach one section of 101 per term (by the way, a book you ought to read before you graduate
is "Cows, Pigs, and Witches" by Marvin Harris), for I feel compelled to educate the entire proletariat. (How about "The
Paper Economy" - it’s important reading.) Eco 101 is thus a course covering the basic economic concepts: demand-supply theory, elasticity
of demand and supply, firm behavior in various markets, growing up Red on a small farm in the Texas boonies,
introduction to Keynesian theory, and Marx is OK, really, even in Presbyterianland. (Two excellent journals worth your while are "New
Left Review" and "Dissent" magazine.) Basically, Eco 101 is divided into two parts: firstly, an examination of microeconomics and, secondly,
trivia. For instance, this redneck guy from Alabama I knew in the army who acted really stupid and lazy so
he could be discharged, and he really was, and the rest of us were really amazed, so now he’s one
of my minor heroes, understand? (Above all else, read Veblen.)

Note on grading: I give two major reviews during the term, the second of which is not comprehensive. Neither affects
the student’s grade. Quote: “I don’t give a damn at this stage of my career.”

Student comments: Though Dr. P. rarely gives A’s, there is almost no work necessary to pass his courses. Those who
sign up for him during the 1979-80 school year will find his no A’s/slack load reputation to be especially apt,
for he is retiring at the end of this spring term.

Ratliff

Country Boy Charlie Ratliff takes great pride in his liberal leanings and political connections. When Jimmy Carter called him in
December 1976 seeking advice for filling cabinet positions, Charlie recommended several winners: Bert Lance for OMB, Andy Young for HEW,
and Idi Amin for UN ambassador. Ratliff is the only member of the faculty whose haircut favors Conway Twitty and
whose sport coat-backs are caked with psychedelic chalk dust. God Almighty blessed Charlie R. with large nostrils and small fingers.
Last year in class, he successfully dislodged an eraser from his nose. He has a distinct fetish for blackboards and
anything associated with them.

Charlie’s hobby is dealing in antique automobiles. He sold Cora Nelson a sturdy Corvair and is currently trying to unload
his Nash-Rambler on someone. His good-natured personality comes through in that he is the only department head who teaches.Introductory courses.
He is also the only chairman capable of teaching such courses. In fact, he cannot teach anything else.

Education Hight
In his position as the college’s head shrink, Dr. Hight is the only Davidson professor to lose the GREs for
the entire senior class and his eyeglasses all in the same day. One need not have the wisdom of Dr.
MacCormac nor the great powers of observation of Professor Minter to know that Hight suffers from a hide-and-seek fetish.

English Abbott
Perhaps the worst dressed faculty member on three legs.

Bliss
Frank Bliss is the only Davidson professor known to have picked his belly-button with a rusty pocket-knife in front of
a class of 30 people. The grainy-faced old slob, who has been on the faculty as long as most people
can remember and longer than most would want to, was recently transferred to the Center for Academic Misfits. There he
is expected to spend most of the day locked in his office. Asked to comment on Bliss’s transfer, College President
Samuel Spencer would only say, “We had to do something. The man’s English lectures were getting so intolerable that English
majors interested in his area were threatening to transfer. By hook or crook, Bliss managed to get tenure so there
was no way I could get Zimmie to fire him. Obviously, the best solution was to ship him over to
the Center so that he could nurse the disruptive brats who hang out there.”

Cole
With an accent that sounds more like Jimmy Stewart than Jimmy Stewart himself, Davidson English Department Chairman Richard (ploddin’ Dick)
Cole is reputed to have laughed maybe once. Most connected with the English Department can’t remember when, though perhaps it
was when he first compared Bill Barnes to Lord Byron (or was it when Bill Barnes first compared himself to
Lord Byron?). Otherwise, Cole just smiles a lot. If he likes your comment in a class discussion, he'll say, “That's
an interesting point.” His teaching method contrasted with office help once prompted one Davidson English major to opine that just
Dick’s body goes to teach class; his brain stays in his office and reads Boswell.

Holland
J. Gill ‘Great Stuff’ Holland was a wrestler SAE at Washington and Lee, and subsequently views classes as athletic contests,
during which he tries to pin the unsuspecting student under masses of obscurantism. One of our more erudite professors (he
speaks several languages very badly), he reads the MLA Handbook the same way the Ayatollah reads his Koran, and Holland’s
grading system is not unlike Iranian Revolutionary Justice. One suspects there are booby traps in his office, which would be
a good place for DCF to have a work day. The prospective student should be advised that he will have
to turn in 14 drafts of a paper.
