10—The Davidsonian—April 20, 1979

Sports

Davidson horseback riding: successful thanks to dedication

By TAINE ALISON
Asst. Features Editor

Hard work, determination, and lots of luck... that is how the Davidson College Horseback Riding Program has become more than just a far-fetched dream. It all began last year when Mr. J.W. Howard of Atlanta offered Davidson the use of his property to begin a riding program. He generously donated the resources and the capital necessary to get the program off the ground. Mr. Howard’s continued support, along with the dedication of Sterling Martin, Director of Physical Education, allowed students to organize an instructional program last spring. Under the leadership of Katherine Whitney, ’79, and Kathy Woodward, ’79, students managed to teach lessons, keep the horses fed, and stalls clean. Virginia Dummit, ’80, stayed in Davidson over the summer, teaching community children and managing the barn.

Fall term, the college agreed to hire Ms. Kathleen Case as a part-time employee to relieve students of barn management duties. “The program is operating on a three-year trial basis, assuming that it is a self-supporting program,” Sterling Martin explained. The barn manager’s salary, as well as all other operating costs, are generated from class fees, contributions, and the sale of donated horses which the program is unable to use. In the event that the program does not make enough money to pay Case, the College will guarantee her salary, Martin said.

This year, Case has worked in conjunction with a Student Board to expand and improve riding opportunities at Davidson. Rosie Whitesides, ’81, Chairman of the Student Board, defined the purpose of the riding program: “The riding program gives Davidson students a unique opportunity to have instruction in horseback riding. It allows experienced riders to share their knowledge in a directed program. Weekend activities such as trail rides also provide opportunities for recreational riding.”

Fulfilling this purpose is far from easy. Whitesides comments: “We need time to get details ironed out and to learn more about how to run a riding program.” She adds, “I think we've made progress.” Since classes began last spring, about 80 Davidson students have been involved in the program. At present, there are six student instructors who teach 8 classes of Davidson students each week. There are also 4 classes per week of community children. In addition, there is an instructor's class of 4 students who are preparing to teach next year. Students pay $40.00 per term for 1 hour of instruction each week. On Saturdays, they can have an additional hour of riding in exchange for an hour of working at the barn.

This term, the riding program is also organizing weekend trail rides, cookouts, and overnight rides for any interested student—you do not have to take lessons to be eligible to participate in these recreational activities. The response to the riding program has been very positive. Students from all skill levels have expressed many reasons why they enjoy riding at Davidson. Belle Erdman, ’80, commented, “I enjoy teaching people what I’ve had the opportunity to learn before.” Teaching is not a light responsibility, she noted. “You've got to be dedicated to work for the program. You can’t let the Davidson workload break that commitment. Riding means enough to me to make the work worthwhile.” A member of the Advanced class,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Cordelia Crampton, '82, said, “I enjoy riding at Davidson because I can continue something I’ve done all my life, and riding is a painless way of getting a P.E. credit—except when Kathleen (Case) is at the other end of the lunge line!” Ann Williams, ’82, is another student who had riding experience before Davidson. She went through the instructor’s class and is now teaching. “The instructor’s class was rough during the winter but it was worth it to get out to the stables because I had missed riding.” She enjoys teaching her Advanced Beginners class because “the students are so enthusiastic. I just love it.” When asked what he likes about riding, Jeff McArn, ’79, answered “Getting your hands dirty...riding is something different, a good break from the Davidson routine.” Virginia Dummit, '80, expressed similar feelings: “It’s good to get totally away from campus. You can forget all your social and academic problems.” Dummit currently teaches a class of children ranging in age from 5th grade to 16 years. “It’s fun to get children and horses together and enjoy their excitement.” Although the riding program has made encouraging progress, there are still many unsolved problems. “When there is so much money going to other sports with less student participation, it is frustrating to have to struggle for money just to keep the horses fed,” commented Virginia Dummit. Nevertheless, the students involved, as well as Kathleen Case and Sterling Martin, are hoping that with a little more hard work, determination and luck, the dreams of a Davidson College Horseback Riding Program will become a reality. Anyone who would like more information should contact Rosie Whitesides, Box 4275, 892-6378 or Kathleen Case, McCord Road, Huntersville.

---

Sollie Foy has been leading the Davidson golf team all season. Foy led the team last week in a tournament at Jacksonville, Florida, with a three-round score of 226. The Southern Conference tourney will begin on April 30 at Pinehurst. Other members of the team are L.P. Simmons, Brett Storm, Mark Hess, and Jim Heard. (Bill Purcell)

---

Football ends Spring Practice with Black team vs. White team intersquad game

By ROB GILLISON
Assistant Sports Editor

The Davidson Wildcat Football team finished up their spring football practice with an intersquad game played last Friday. The game pitted the black against the white, with the black team winning 17-7. In the past, the game had been offense vs. defense but this year the team possesses enough depth to fill two squads. “We tried to split the team evenly,” said Coach Ed Farrell. “As a result, we didn’t have a real efficient game.” Farrell did point out the outstanding efforts of defensive tackle Mike Sheridan and running back Ray Sinclair, who rushed for over a hundred yards. “I want to finish the spring on a high note,” said Farrell, “I wanted good spirit and lots of contact, and from that viewpoint it was a successful exercise.”

---

The ROTC and American Red Cross Annual Spring Blood Drive
Wednesday, April 25
10:00 to 3:30
College Union

The Dorm Social Committee will provide breakfast-in-bed for the hall/house with the highest percentage of donors. Help us reach our goal of 433 pints for this year. Keep Red Cross ready.