March 23, 1979—The Davideonian—13

Sophomore Jay Gepfert leads the Davidson tennis team as the number one singles player this season. The pre-season expectation was
not good, but the team is showing promise.

Foy tops the pack at Fripp Island Invitational
By BILL BAIRD
Staff Writer

Senior Sollie Foy captured his first collegiate tournament victory at the final stop of the Wildcats’ spring trip, the Fripp
Island Invitational. Foy toured the difficult Fripp Island layout in just three strokes over par, a record for the 54-hole
event. His victory was highlighted by a spectacular two under par finishing round that enabled him to run away from
the rest of the field. This outstanding round (his second subpar performance this year) followed rounds of 75 and 74
for a 149 total and a slim one-shot lead going into the final day’s competition. Foy handled the pressure of
retaining a lead extremely well despite having twelve other golfers within striking distance. Foy’s performance was not backed up by
his teammates, however; the Wildcats as a group finished in the middle of the pack.

Prior to the Fripp tourney, five golfers headed for Tallahassee, Florida, to compete in the prestigious Seminole Classic. Pitted against
a classy Southeastern field that included five of the top ten golf squads in the nation, it soon became apparent
that the Wildcats were not prepared for the event. Snow and the end of term rush had severely limited practice
time. The best Davidson could manage was to battle another “snowbound” team, Virginia Tech, to escape a last-place finish. At
Tallahassee, the team was led by Sophomore L.D. Simmons with a three-round total of 241. Simmons was followed closely by
Foy, Mark Hess, Bill Baird, and Mike Kennedy. Senior Parks Neisler joined the Wildcats at Fripp Island. The “Sultans of
Swing” still look forward to a heavy tournament schedule that includes the Elon and Jacksonville Invitationals and the Southern Conference
Championship at Pinehurst. The Cats face UNCC at Charlotte Country Club today where Joe Davis and Brett Storm will tee
it up for the first time this Spring. Both players could play an important role in the success of the
1979 Wildcats.

Young tennis team strives in ‘79 season
By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

Any fool knows the importance of a psychological advantage in any competitive sport. Raw physical talent is meaningless to the
athlete who cannot harness it. Even the best athletes can fall to pieces because of a poor mental attitude. Nearing
the halfway point in its season, the men’s varsity tennis team is mentally psyched. They have developed a match-toughness that
was not evident at the beginning of the season. They look to the future with confidence and a greater sense
of team unity.

Many Davidson tennis fans originally had some misgivings about this year’s team, and they had good reason to. Coach Jeff
Frank lost six seniors to graduation, four of which played singles. Jay Gepfert moved into the number one spot with
no collegiate singles experience. Two freshmen were to play at third and fourth singles. Could such a young and relatively
inexperienced team even come close to last year’s 24-5 record? Only time could tell.

In the first week of matches, the team found a real test against some of its toughest competition. It was
a dogfight, but the Wildcats came out of it relatively unscathed. They withstood the pressure. This gave the Cats a
boost of confidence and alleviated many underlying doubts among the fans.

Some of the Wildcats’ biggest wins were against Penn State (7-2), Purdue (9-0), and Morehead State (6-3). In the Penn
State match, the Cats won all six singles matches. In the Morehead State match, Davidson took all three doubles matches.
Coach Frank relies on the “strength of the doubles team” to pull a match through.

The tennis team has lost to Atlanta Christian, N.C. State, U.N.C., and Eastern Tennessee State (the preseason conference favorite). Coach
Frank didn’t expect to beat any of these teams except for possibly Atlanta Christian where there were five three-set matches.
Freshman John Carlin stands out with an 8-3 record at third singles this season. He upset his U.N.C. opponent in
the team’s only singles win on Saturday. Jeff Lyle is 4-2 at sixth singles, and Gil Kayton is 4-0 at
his position. Nick Petron and Kayton are 6-1 on the season at third doubles. Before the Amherst matches yesterday, the
Wildcats’ record stood at 8-4. Coach Frank feels they are psyched for the nine remaining matches.upcoming matches in the next
two weeks. The Cats exude confidence. For a “rebuilding year,” the team is showing a lot of promise.

Cat track team improves
By ROB GILLISON
Asst. Sports Editor

The 1979 version of the Davidson track team has a problem—how to make up for the loss of several all-conference
performers. On top of that, in last year’s 6-1 season, three victories came by margins of only one point. Coach
Karl Kremser believes that the loss of these stars, through graduation and injury, will cost the team 30 points a
meet. The solution to this problem lies in the developing athletes now on the team. The potential for new school
records is present in many events. The addition of Willie Lanier and Ray Sinclair has strengthened the weight events. Terrazo
Wallace is the team’s leading sprinter. Kremser says that he is running extremely well considering the earliness of the season.
Dick Joves has the potential for some low times in the high hurdles, and Doug Horn and John Hoots will
do well in the distances.

So far this season, the team is 0-1 in dual meets, losing by three points to Washington & Lee. They
also came in second in a three-way meet, losing to Campbell and finishing ahead of Highpoint. “We just weren’t ready
for Washington & Lee,” explains Kremser. “We really hadn’t gotten in enough work.” The team runs against Catcall John Haskell.

At an institution of Davidson’s academic standing, a kind of intellectual honesty and consistency should be sought in all areas
of campus life. But, as is generally felt, there are aspects which fall well short of encouraging an academic atmosphere
and upholding Christian fellowship. It is obvious that some of these aspects involve sports and sports teams in particular. As
a matter of fact, hardly a day goes by without some antics of our women’s swimming team.

The problem stems from the trustees’ statement of purpose in allowing large sums of money to be spent on women’s
swimming. Women’s swimming is a brutish sport, hardly consistent with the wholesome atmosphere at Davidson created by the preponderance of
upper-middle-class students. Surely we can have good teams in tennis and golf, since they are basically aristocratic, country club sports—consistent
with the Davidson image. But how can we hope to justify the admittance of hordes of swashbuckling female swimmers, who
are nothing but a disruptive influence on the campus? The good ones will probably leave after a year anyway and
go to State U., where the swimming pools bring in large revenues and are meant to be zoos. The remainder
will battle away, trying to make good, with long practice hours, and nary enough time to handle the demanding workload.

But so much for the theoretical and moral issues of whether we should allow such an outlandish sport to be
so highly emphasized. Let’s get down to the facts of how these girls are a detriment to our serene community.
As a resident of a co-ed dormitory, I feel highly qualified in addressing the issue of female violence on this
campus. Needless to say, it seems that every window at this school has been broken at least once, much to
the dismay of those of us who enjoy a barefoot stroll, free from the dangers of broken glass, through the
campus on a spring evening. What is even worse is when the ladies invade our halls, pouring beer under our
doors and sabotaging our urinals. The most outrageous episode was at the end of last year’s swim season when the
Rusk girls, obviously well tanked up, waltzed across Patterson Court and nearly leveled the Phi Delt and SAE houses. Other
examples of less than compliant behavior include raiding the kitchen and lewdly baring their chests in the midst of a
beer blast behind the outfield fence during a baseball game.

Has anything been done about it? No. I talked with the coach of the team and asked her why she
didn’t have more control over her squad. She said that such behavior is common everywhere and that in order to
have a winner one must allow these aggressive tendencies to surface. Of course, all of this fails to explain why
our distaff tankers had their umpteenth straight season without a victory. Maybe winning isn’t everything? On an encouraging note, she
did inform me that they had raised enough money to pay for a dishwasher.

I understand that the trustees just want to give the women a part of campus life they can be proud
of at this school which has for so long been dominated by male-oriented activities. But why can't we have big-time
field hockey instead, or perhaps fashion shows, or maybe even a weekly knitting competition to appease the women? Anything to
replace women’s swimming at a place like Davidson.
