16— The Davidsonian— March 23, 1979

Athletics vs. Academics: the battle of the budget

PHILADELPHIA, PA (CPS) — As college and university budgets tighten, and tuition and student fees rise, resentment over the funding
of intercollegiate athletics departments seems to be growing. Student and faculty reports critical of athletic departments’ relatively large budgets have
surfaced on at least 14 campuses this academic year.

The most recent report released was here at the University of Pennsylvania, and, as has happened at other schools, widespread
controversy has followed.

Penn's Faculty Advisory Committee (SAC), which is the guiding body for the Faculty Senate, issued a report last month as
part of a university-wide review of athletic policy.

It states that “continued participation in the Ivy League does not require that the present scope of Penn’s program of
intercollegiate athletics be maintained.” The report recommends that the athletic budget be frozen for a three-year period, that the number
of coaches be reduced, and that special athletic admissions be permitted only for the spectator sports of football, basketball, and
soccer.

SAC said its proposal would save money and improve the quality of the student body. Five percent of Penn’s student
body can, under present rules, be admitted under a special admissions procedure for athletes. They are students who, moreover, probably
would not be accepted at Penn under normal procedures. Similar special admissions procedures exist for lower socio-economic groups and for
faculty children. Much of the debate that followed the SAC report has centered around the admissions question.

Mark Lerner, chairman of the Undergraduate Assembly, called the faculty report “short-sighted and irresponsible.” The Student Task Force on Athletics
assailed the report, citing “unsubstantiated assumptions” and mourning that the way it was released “may cause lasting damage to the
image of the university.” It said SAC was wrong for considering admissions in the context of a report on athletics.

“Special admissions,” added university trustee Robert Levy, “are a part of this university, and a part of the Ivy League.”

The admissions questions, and the issue of intercollegiate athletic financing, arose from a university Budget Committee report last spring that
found deficits in the athletic department and a campus arts center. The committee said both would have to be reduced.
As a result, the school dropped its hockey program, and the arts center eliminated its professional theater program. A subsequent
student sit-in at the Administration Building led to a renaissance of the theater program, but the hockey program was never
reconsidered.

Such money questions have become more common. Yale and Princeton also have financial problems in their athletic departments. At Fort
Hays State in Kansas, students marched on campus last spring when the sports department asked for more than 50 percent
of the student fees budget, up from 39 percent the year before. They complained that only 30 percent of the
student body directly benefited from the intercollegiate sports program, while the remainder supported it through fees and tuition payments.

A similar protest took place at Kent State last February.

The Back Page

On Campus

Take part in Davidson tradition...

Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s King of Pizza. The food maintains an excellent reputation for
being fresh, warm, and of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere or the take-out order service.

Munch on a pizza from King of Pizza and see how much you enjoy it.

King of Pizza, Inc.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N.C.

KING OF PIZZA

Thursday, March 22
9:30 & 11 pm. Peter Alsop, 900 Room.
Friday, March 23
10 am. Coffee and cokes, Gallery.
2 pm. Campus Field Day, field next to baseball field.
8 & 10:30 pm. Film: “Old Dracula”, PG, Love Aud.
8:15 pm. D.C. Women’s Choral Concert, Hodson Hall.
9:30 & 11 pm. Peter Alsop, 900 Room.
Saturday, March 24
9:30 am. CROP Walk, in front of Chambers.
Sunday, March 25
7 pm. CROP Symposium, 900 Room.
7 pm. Centering-Venturing Workshop, Morrison Room.
Tuesday, March 27
7 pm. Worship Service, DCPC.
Wednesday, March 28
7 pm. Centering-Venturing Workshop, Morrison Room.
8 pm. Fine Film: “The Iceman Cometh”, Love Aud.

April 2 Max Wartofsky: 10:00— Technology — Freedom or Domination?
8:00— Rights, Risks and Responsibilities; Medical Knowledge as a Social Practice
April 11 Gill Holland: The Dehumanization of the Camera
April 18 Samuel Maloney: The Just War and Nuclear Weapons
April 25 Norman Koller: Science and the Public Interest
May 2 Robert Maydole: Fetus Farms: A Very Modest Proposal?
May 11 Donald Kimmel: The Ethics of Recombinant DNA Research
May 16 Robert Ruth: The Ethics of Experimenting on Prisoners

Sports

Friday, March 23
2 pm. Tennis with Hampden-Sydney, home.
3 pm. Baseball with UNC-Chapel Hill, home.
Saturday, March 24
2 pm. Tennis with Auburn, home.
3 pm. Track with Lynchburg, home.
Monday, March 26
2 pm. Tennis with East Tenn. State, home.
3 pm. Women's Tennis with Campbell, home.
Tuesday, March 27
2 pm. Tennis with MIT, home.
3 pm. Women's Tennis with UNC-Asheville, home.
Wednesday, March 28
2 pm. Tennis with St. Lawrence, home.
Thursday, March 29
2 pm. Women's Tennis with N.C. State, away.
7:30 pm. Baseball with UNC-Charlotte, away.
