(continued from page 1) At the same time, I was vice-president under Bruce’s Senate (Bruce Brown is outgoing SGA President).
I think he did a damn good job, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t things I would do differently, because
there are.”

Among the things Jackson would like to do is to explore some solutions to the registration problem. He sees the
use of more afternoon classes in the winter and 10 o’clock classes as viable solutions to the problem. “Something has
to be done about registration, and it must be done before we sign up for classes this spring,” he commented.

Jackson also said he favors some changes in the athletic program. He feels that the athletic budget must be itemized
in order to let students and faculty know what percentage of it goes to each section of the athletic program.
“I think it’s absurd for a school of this size to have a ‘secret budget,’” Jackson said. More money allotted
to minor sports, women’s sports, and student use physical education and intramural competition is also favored by Jackson.

Housing shortages are also among the issues he said he intends to concentrate on. “There’s no excuse at all for
people being forced to live three to a room,” Jackson, a hall counselor, said of this year’s practice of housing
some freshmen in triples. “Housing is a problem, and the school should investigate the possibility of buying more off-campus housing.”

All of these issues, and other related ones, Jackson said he sees as growing out of one problem. “It’s time
that Davidson looked over its priorities again as a college. It must first of all be a college for people
who are here now. I think at times the Trustees and Administration get too wrapped up in planning for the
future. Davidson has got to get its priorities straight, and it’s the SGA’s job to get the students involved.”

Jackson said he feels that if elected as SGA president he would be in the position to move the college
community toward a reevaluation of its priorities. He said he sees the present as the ideal time to do this.

PIRG (continued from page 8)

The drug pairs—Darvon and Propoxyphene; Equanil and Meprobamate; Acromycin V and Tetracycline—were chosen as representative painkillers, tranquilizers, and antibiotics respectively.
The price difference in each case was: Darvon 50 percent more, Meprobamate 83 percent more, Acromycin over 30 percent more.
In all, four other PIRGs at colleges around the state have completed similar surveys and found similar results.

The press conference, held last Tuesday, was covered by all three Charlotte TV stations and the Mecklenburg Gazette. The PIRG
members who participated in the press conference were hoping that it would raise awareness of the savings consumers could realize
by purchasing generic drugs as well as support for the legislation. At the conference, Maria Patterson pointed out that the
drug manufacturing companies were the

Elections

“This spring will be crucial for the SGA,” he said. “Many crucial issues are coming up; all of these things
are right about to burst. The SGA’s responsibility is to get the student body together and get them behind it.
I have the energy for this and the experience to go with it. If we miss this opportunity,” he added,
“it won’t come along for another five or ten years.”

Miller, like Jackson, is a junior. He served this year as a senator in the SGA, and he said he
hopes to make this organization a more dynamic force on campus if elected. “I think the SGA really needs to
be revitalized,” he said. “We need to put in specific directions, with organized structure.”

Miller said he feels that under his leadership the SGA can be revitalized through wider student participation. “The basic structures
are there, and students do have power. They are just as powerful a bloc as the faculty, Administration, and Trustees.
We need to get organized and get moving.”

He said he sees a major shortcoming in the fact that SGA action is often a result of campus controversy
and not a solution to or preventive of it. “A big problem has been that the SGA waits ’til problems
have arisen,” Miller commented. “Students are on all the administration committees. We need to coordinate, and anticipate these problems.”

Miller said he would also like to use the presidency to upgrade the SGA’s role as a student service organization.
He said he feels services such as offering rides to the airport, exams, and course evaluations have been sporadic in
the past and should be improved.

He also said he sees the SGA’s image as a problem. “A whole revitalization of the SGA needs to take
place because students see it as a club,” he said. He thinks this is due in part to the organization’s
actions during the past few years. “They meet but nothing positive comes out,” he added. “We need to get organized
now that many questions are being brought up,” Miller says. “Students have to make sure they’re using their opportunities for
influence.”Main body opposing the bill, and emphasized that the bill would aid consumers, and especially senior citizens who require daily
medication.

Attitude of questions—
The presidential candidates will hold an open forum today at 10 a.m. on the patio of the Union Snack Bar.
Jackson and Miller will be present to answer questions and speak with students.

Terry is running unopposed for the office of SGA vice-president. A sophomore, he also served as an SGA senator this
year. Although the duties of the vice-president are not as concrete as those of the president, Terry said he feels
his job is important.

“It’s an important position,” he said. “I wouldn't be running if I thought it was simply an exercise in parliamentary
procedure. It’s much more.”

One of Terry’s duties will be to preside over the Residence Halls Council. This council deals mainly with dorm issues—Code
of Responsibility problems, vandalism, and storage problems. Jackson revamped the council this year while vice-president, and the next two years
are designed to be a trial period for the restructuring.

“His job will be important as far as its existence goes,” Jackson said of Terry’s responsibility for the RHC.

This spring will also find Terry doing a lot of what he describes as “committee-hopping.” “The vice-president has been a
morale-booster and ice-breaker in the past,” he said. “Although that doesn’t sound like much, it’s pretty important. Often it’s a
matter of the president not being able to cover all the ground he wants to. Mainly I have to be
available,” he added.

As vice-president, Terry will be more of a diplomat than a policy-maker. “As far as my opinion goes, I carry
no more weight than any other senator. In that respect, it’s more important that I lend sway to the dictates
of the President and the Senate,” he said. “I certainly will speak up, though,” he explained.

Terry said he sees one issue which he and the other senators will have to focus upon. “One thing we’ve
got to think about is whether our priorities are straight as regards the academic excellence of the school,” he said.
“That leads into a multitude of scheduled exams, admissions, registration.”

Terry said he is looking forward to working with the new SGA president, whoever it may be. “I think either
Andy or John would do a really good job,” he said. “I know them both, and I don’t think I'll
have any problem working with either.”

(continued from page 9)
Sent to all the community children who have special Union IDs in an effort to increase the audience size.

March 20, 1978
Richard Terry is running unopposed for SGA vice-president.

Faculty (Bill Purcell) (continued from page 1)
Something that will help the faculty in their teaching and in designing their courses.

“The PAC and I will be discussing the use of evaluation forms by students, which is like any instrument. It
has its drawbacks,” Zimmermann commented.

Sizing up the Code in general, Zimmermann said, “This document represents many compromises. It won't seem perfect to everybody.” At
least the administration now has a more solid basis for evaluating the Davidson faculty. According to Zimmermann, the junior members
of the faculty are particularly pleased with the Code’s acceptance.

Asked if the Code’s approval is freeing him to divert his attention to more current concerns, Zimmermann replied, “It certainly
is.”

As for the faculty’s decisiveness towards the Code, the manner in which it was approved was notable. There was a
voice vote; a hand count was taken.

(continued from page 1)
Increase, but, as department budget proposals came in, it became apparent that we would have to raise tuition and fees
to meet those needs.”

As a result, an 8.8 percent overall increase was approved by the Trustees. A breakdown of the increases reveals a
$300 increase in tuition to cover faculty and staff cost of living increases; a $60 increase in board, primarily to
cover rising heating oil costs; a $15 increase in the laundry service fee to cover employee wage increases; and a
$77 increase at Slater. The increase at Slater was determined by ARA management and submitted to the President’s Office. There
is no increase in the $85 Student Activity Fee.

In the letter, Spencer was careful to point out that tuition and fees paid by the students cover only a
portion of the actual costs of education at Davidson. The remaining portion is comprised of gifts and income from the
endowment and various trusts. In 1978 this figure was in excess of $490,000.

Davidson indicated that the College is trying to maintain service costs as low as possible in an effort to minimize
expenditures all the way around. However, this is a difficult task, especially in the face of rising prices in fuel
and maintenance and education materials, he said. Davidson noted that it costs the College approximately $35,000 more each year to
buy the same number of books for the library.

Included with the letter that went home was a comparison of Davidson’s tuition and fees.
