The Davidson wrestling team will come home on February 2 for a match with Furman after facing difficult competition in away matches. (Bill Purcell)

Wrestling team struggles through difficult schedule
By DAVID PIPER
Staff Writer

The wrestling team faces tough competition this Saturday when it travels to Lexington, Va., for the Washington and Lee Invitational. On February 2, the wrestlers return to Johnston Gym for their first home match since before Christmas. They will be facing Furman in a dual meet. Senior captain Pat Dulany looks forward to returning to Davidson and says, “I think we'll beat Furman.” Dulany also noted that there will be a scrimmage against Wake Forest in Johnston Gym next Tuesday.

Davidson wrestlers have been struggling through a series of tough road matches. Last week the squad lost to Campbell College on Tuesday and fared poorly in the Bulldog Invitational at the Citadel on Saturday. Against Campbell, Dulany and freshman Scott Smith were the only victors, by a superior decision and a pin, respectively. The meet Saturday in Charleston involved eight teams, including Duke and Georgia Tech. Smith registered the Cats’ only finish in the money, placing third in the 134-pound weight class. Dulany, Scott Phillips, and Svend Pederson also won matches.

Long ticket line at Duke-Davidson game raises questions about Davidson's student ticket policy
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Philip Blue cringed somewhat at the question put to him about the Duke-Davidson basketball ticket situation. “I should have told the students to come earlier. We didn’t expect such an overflow at the ticket window,” Blue said. Blue, in his first year as ticket office manager for the Wildcats, did not, however, accept all the blame for the confusion in the lobby of the Charlotte Coliseum on Jan. 2 as the top-ranked (at that time) Blue Devils met Davidson. Blue said that he simply had too much to do in the booth by himself: checking IDs, getting and assigning tickets, and marking off the names. The result was a line so long that some students missed the first half of the game.

The Duke contest was different from the other Wildcat games. It was an important game played during the Christmas break, so the ticket procedure was altered. Blue said, “I don’t make the rules. I have to follow the higher-ups.” The higher-ups include Davidson Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill and others in the athletic department. There was concern that some of the student tickets would fall into the wrong hands and not be used as they should; students might sell their complimentary tickets if they could not personally attend, according to Cartmill. So the ticket policy for the Duke game was changed. “We just assumed that the students would be out of town,” Cartmill said, “We did not foresee the problems with the line at the Coliseum.”

Rifle team places second at Clemson
By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Saturday, the Davidson rifle team traveled to Clemson to take on Appalachian, Wofford, and the host Tigers. The surprising Cats, whose only three losses this year have been to the Appalachian State Mountaineers, lost a close one to them by a 1313-1323 score. This was the smallest margin of defeat yet for Davidson at the hands of Appalachian. Clemson was third with 1263 points, and Wofford scored 1210 points. The team was led by John Parham. His outstanding score of 279 was high for the match, and also established a new Davidson match record. Parhamsaid that he knew during the match he was nearing a possible record. “I knew I would blow it if I let the pressure get to me. I had to just concentrate on every bull’s eye.” He continued, “It really did feel good. I got good shots, too.” Freshman Craig Rice also had a fine match. His 269 equaled the score of the top Appalachian shooter. Katherine Whitney was third for the Cats with a 263, and Pat Stuard and Tom Niblock added a pair of 246’s. John Hartman, Robbie Kirkendol, and Louis Williams also shot for the team. The victories over Clemson and Wofford upped the team’s record to 12-3. Team captain Katherine Whitney expressed surprise at the squad’s impressive start. “We’re working together as a team. Several people are shooting top scores; we don’t have to depend on one person.” With the season about halfway over, the team will have to shoot well to finish out the year in a similar style. This Saturday, four team members will head south for the competitive Florida Invitational. During the upcoming weeks, the Cats will face Appalachian three more times, plus The Citadel and VMI among other Southern Conference foes. They will challenge Davidson at the Southern Conference Championship match on February 17. Appalachian and VMI are expected to take the top two team spots, and Davidson could place third if it can defeat The Citadel, as it did last year. The Wildcats are also hoping for a second-place finish in the championship match of the six-team Western Carolinas Conference—a rifle conference. They presently hold down that spot in the conference standings. Whitney expressed the team’s feelings about the remainder of the season. “Our scores have gone up every match,” she said. “We’re really excited.”

Furman comes to Charlotte on Saturday

The Furman Palladins will be the visitors in the Charlotte Coliseum Saturday. Furman is in second place in the Southern Conference and has beaten the Wildcats previously this season. The game will begin at 7:30 pm. Regular games played in Charlotte as well as the special Duke game were made to “try to resolve the waste factor” according to Cartmill. He added that the ticket procedure was contrived as an “effort to cut down on the loss of free tickets, the ones not used, and those given away.” Cartmill added that following the present system should give all students a chance at a good seat. Cartmill stated that the ticket policy is reviewed every few years by the alumni office, the Wildcat Department, the financial department, etc., and an evaluation of its assets and problems is made. He said, “We will review it again and get input from different facets of the college community. We cannot satisfy everybody. A good financial job and a service to the community are our two primary objectives.”

A lot of companies will offer you an important-sounding title. But how many offer you a really important job? In the Navy, you get one as soon as you earn your commission. A job with responsibility. A job that requires skill and leadership. A job that’s more than just a job, because it’s also an adventure. If that’s the kind of job you’re looking for, speak to your local recruiter. Contact: 1-371-6254. Lt. Steve Burnette will be in the Union’s Conversation Pit on February 6, 7, and 8 from 9 am to 4 pm. Stop by and talk with him or call him collect in Charlotte.

NAVY OFFICER. YOU GET RESPONSIBILITY THE MOMENT YOU GET THE STRIPES.