Punting the Pigskin
Bill Peeples

Glory on the Davidson football field is hard to come by. Pro quarterbacks, in the meantime, have salaries exceeding that
of American presidents. Football is no longer an expression of rivalry among colleges, but a billion-dollar business. Textbooks on industrial
organization now include a chapter on football as an industry. Americans would rather turn their television knobs to a pro
football game than a wholesome John Wayne movie. I often wonder, too idealistically perhaps, if the American conscience is warped.

At Davidson, football is at least kept in the proper perspective. The time-worn cliché about student-athletes is still applicable. They
come because they enjoyed football in high school and want to continue playing. They also want a superior education. Two
of last year’s captains, Chip Howell and Cliff Hester, are examples of this ideal. They both played for four exasperating
seasons, but both agree that their time was well spent. Chip is now in medical school, Cliff in law school.
Their potential as contributors to society upon completion of their education is incredible.

Fran Tarkenton, an admirable individual and fine athlete, has retired his jersey as a football player. He spent Super Sunday
in the sound booth at the Orange Bowl as an NBC announcer. Fran joked that he never thought he would
make it into the locker room of a winning Super Bowl team, having lost a few himself as Minnesota's quarterback.
What a way to end a fabulous professional career! I thought Tarkenton was wasting his time.

Next year Davidson may be six and four at season’s end. The Cats’ record may be three and seven. Win
or lose, I don’t much care. I’d rather see Davidson get creamed by the cadets at the Citadel any day
than watch the Super Bowl. Then again, I hope the Atlanta Falcons never go any further than they did this
season, ’cause I just may have to eat my words.

While many Davidson football fans want to axe Cartmill and replace Coach Ferrell, one must admit that Davidson football is
played the way the sport ought to be. The only big reward the players receive is the knowledge that they
have done their best. When my folks came to visit in November, the highlight of their trip was the Davidson-Lafayette
game. The contest reminded them of college football the way it was in their school days. My mother, who went
to the University of Georgia, said that Davidson played just like the Bulldogs used to. The point is that anybody
who doesn’t like Davidson football just because the Cats do not make it to the Gator Bowl is insane.

The National Football League championship game, billed as Super Sunday, is an affair people should worry about. Authorities estimate that
over $100 million in illegal betting changed hands over the Super Bowl. Who ever heard of betting on a Davidson
football game?

Bill Peeples, a native of Valdosta, Ga., is Senior Features Editor for The Davidsonian.

Campus-wide survey indicates misconceptions about the Equal Rights Amendment
ERA will promote, not impede, equality
Pam Camerra

“The ERA is an attack on holy scriptures, the family unit, the marriage relationship, parental duties and rights, the roles
God has given men and women and the right to be a woman! ERA will not give a woman dignity...
Her faith in GOD does that!” (From a cartoon booklet published by Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum.)

“All the ERA seeks to do is to say to the Supreme Court of the United States — ‘Wake Up!
This is the 20th Century. Before it is over, judge women as individual human beings.’” (Congresswoman Martha Griffiths, principal sponsor
of the ERA, Congressional Record, October 6, 1971, H 92644)

Though the North Carolina legislature rejected the Equal Rights Amendment in 1977, the issue will be thrashed out again in
the current legislative session. Girding for the fight, ERA supporters and opponents are bombarding the state with propaganda, pro and
con. Some opponents have misinformed the public and played upon old-fashioned prejudices in an effort to cloud the issue and
gain support. Mixed-up notions of the ERA abound. Davidson students don’t have their ERA facts straight either. A recent campus
survey revealed these misconceptions.

The ERA is unnecessary because laws such as the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Equal Employment Opportunities Act
(EEOA) of...1972 provide for equality of pay and employment for both sexes. Despite these laws, discrimination against women is still
prevalent. The Senate Judiciary Committee found that many women with a four-year college education were, for example, earning only slightly
more than males with an eighth-grade education. Discrimination persists even in the enlightened circles of higher education. A proportionally larger
number of men are accepted to graduate school despite the fact that women have higher GPAs. Men also receive more
financial aid and higher grants than women. Even women professors earn, on average, $3,000 less than their male counterparts.

Women's rights are already protected under the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees all persons equal protection under the law. The courts
have been unreliable in interpreting the Fourteenth Amendment to include women. In all cases save one (Reed v. Reed, 1971),
the Supreme Court has not supported this interpretation. For example, the high court in 1977 barred a young woman from
attending an all-male public high school for advanced students in Philadelphia. Nor are men getting equal protection under this amendment.
In 1973, in the case of Kahn v. Shevin, for example, the Supreme Court let stand a Florida law allowing
property tax exemptions to widows, but not to widowers.

My principal objection to ERA is that I am simply unwilling to give the federal government such power. Section 2
of the ERA says that "the Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this
article." Stop-ERA leader Phyllis Schlafly points to this clause as proof that the ERA is a "gigantic grab for power
by the federal government." Actually, Section 2 is a rather standard enacting clause similar to sections in the 13th, 18th,
19th, 23rd, 24th, and 25th amendments. States are not foreclosed from passing and enforcing their own anti-discrimination measures. Many states
have already enacted their own equal rights amendments. Nor will the ERA prohibit the right of states to separate the
two sexes under certain circumstances (i.e., restrooms, cohabitation of unmarried persons).

I don’t want my wife and mother forced to serve in the military. First, America’s military services today are all
volunteer. If you want to join, you can; if you don’t, you don't. Second, if the draft were ever reestablished,
women would be subject to the same exemptions and deferments as men. Women who are married, supporting dependents, employed in
preferred occupations (public officials, health and safety officials, etc.), conscientious objectors, or entitled to student deferments would be granted a
delayed classification or exempted altogether from serving. Clearly, mothers will not be torn from their family and children to serve
in combat.

The passage of the ERA will deprive women of alimony and custody rights. The ERA is designed to end many
of these inequities. Alimony payments, for example, are deductible by the paying husband and taxable to the wife, which often
leads to an uneven distribution of the financial responsibility. Under the ERA, the duty of support and custody of children
would be based on the earnings and economic circumstances, and not on the sex, of the parents.

The ERA would weaken a man’s obligation to support the family and would therefore aid in the destruction of the
family. All women will be forced to work because they will be equally responsible for the family. With the passage
of the ERA, no woman will be forced to leave the home. In fact, the ERA recognizes the unique contribution
of the homemaker. The Senate Judiciary Report stated, "Where one spouse is the primary wage earner and the other runs
the home, the wage earner would have a duty to support the spouse who stays home in compensation for the
performance of his or her duties."

The ERA will not instantly change attitudes. However, it will require that the legal and constitutional rights and opportunities and
obligations of both men and women be based on individual characteristics, circumstances, and needs. Equal rights threaten no one. The
ERA will benefit both men and women and preserve the guarantees of the Constitution.

(Gia Partain) first proposed the ERA to Congress. The House passed it in 1972 and thirty-five states have ratified it.
Three more states need to ratify the ERA before it can become part of the Constitution. Let's hope North Carolina
is one of those three.

Pam Camerra '80 is Executive Editor for The Davidsonian.
