One of the most intriguing discoveries is the fact that whales sing! For reasons not fully understood (social communication, mating signals, or possibly creative necessity), humpback whales produce songs: regular sequences of repeated sounds, which vary widely in vocal range and last between six and thirty minutes.

Each calesaaey. The other movements rattle with ecstatic, primitive rhythm.

The work is orchestrated for flute, cello, and piano, all amplified electronically: this, and some dramatic theatrical effects, enhance the cosmic or “impersonal” aura. In fact, this music treads the narrow border between ancient incantation and formal drama.

When, near the beginning of the piece, Crumb paraphrases Strauss’ Also Sprach Zarathustra (used famously in the movie “2001”), one stands at the threshold that separates ritual and art.

The performance will begin at 10:00 p.m. sharp and will last twenty minutes; for this reason, late-comers cannot be admitted. Students are enthusiastically invited to share the experience of 20th-century music.

The performers are Shirley Jackson, flute; Kirk Trevor, cello; and James Swisher, piano.

WDAV

First anniversary with Top 40 countdown

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

WDAV is celebrating its first anniversary this month of its classical music/fine arts format.

“The first year has gone very well,” says Gina Scruggs, music director for the station. “It is very satisfying to hear the public reaction. Many listeners call or write to offer suggestions or just to let us know that they are enjoying WDAV.”

Although professionally managed, the station employs students as announcers and producers. Ed McIntyre, the manager/director, says that the students have a serious approach to what they do.

The classical program is pre-programmed and aired from 7:00 am to 10:00 pm every day. The jazz and rock programs, which run after 10:00 pm, are handled by the students. WDAV is handicapped, however, as a non-commercial station; funding must be provided by contributions.

In order to appeal for financial support, WDAV is having a Top 40 Countdown which will last from November 29 to December 2, twenty-four hours a day.

“Our goal is $25,000,” says Ms. Scruggs. “Between pieces we will be talking about the station and its programs, offering contributions by asking listeners to call and make a pledge.” Subscribing for the station’s monthly program guide is $15.00.

The format during the countdown will be basically the same: classical from 7:00 am to 10:00 pm, from 10:00 pm to 7:00 am the program will be rock on Thursday night and jazz on Sunday.

The money raised will be used to buy equipment, records, and syndicated programs, and to pay for expenses—salaries, phone bills, postage, and electricity.

WDAV broadcasts on FM. So set your radio and enjoy the Top 40 Countdown.

BLAZERS by Austin-Hil

OXFORD CLOTH Button Down Shirts

FLANNEL and SLACKS

Friday, Nov. 30, 8:00 & 10:30 Love Auditorium $1.50
Season Passes will be on sale at this showing and at the Friday Dec. 7 showing.

All non-Davidson students and personnel must obtain a Davidson ID through C. Shaw Smith at the College Union to be admitted.

December 7, “Hi Syne”
January 11, “A Man Horse”
January 18, “Superman”
January 25, “The Deep”
February 8, “Cal Deep”
February 25, “Buck, Rite th Contry”
February 22, “The Job”