Bia Bee as Seger a
checking plans. The regular
program has no service charge if
the balance remains above $200.
However, if the balance falls below $200,
there is a $1 monthly fee plus 15
cents per check.

According to Tom Dutton, an
official at First Union, quite a
few Davidson students hold
accounts at First Union.

But, according to many students, they prefer other options.

(Continued from Page 1)

had some transfer to the regular system. Some chose the regular checking at Piedmont. Abbott concedes that “Some people just
don’t like forms,” but envisions no major problems implementing the new system. “Generally, the reaction (of the faculty) was positive,”
he said.

Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s King of Pizza, known for its excellent reputation for being
fresh, warm, and of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere. Visit King of Pizza and see how much
you enjoy it.

241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N.C.

three came from a January letter from Southwestern’s former Athletic Director Dick Thornton to Davidson's NC.

Davidson’s student-faculty ratio was 10:1 in 1970 and 14:1 in 1979. Austin said he got these figures from The College
Blue Book, a book of vital statistics of colleges and universities in the United States.

Head Football Coach Edward Farrell said he is not upset by the Coalition's activities. “In twenty-three years of coaching, this
sort of thing is not unusual. What does concern him is the inaccuracy of some of the figures that the
group has used. If they really care about this,” he maintains, “they should work on getting the correct information and
not go off half-cocked.”

Austin adds that the group has made the Trustees aware of our concerns.

Farrell agreed that “football costs a lot of money,” but added that, “We are now in a position to generate
some income resulting from the possibility of televised Southern Conference games.” He explained that if any Southern Conference team plays
Davidson in a televised game, Davidson will receive a portion of the revenue.

Also, Farrell maintains that the objections to PIRG can always be addressed. She noted that students do think the program
is using its funds irresponsibly.

994 North Main Street
Post Office Box 30
Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
