Admissions: John Griffin

By TRACY THOMPSON
Staff Writer

While most students are well aware of the new faces that reside in Belk, Richardson, and Sentelle, few are familiar
with the new face in the Admissions Office—John Griffin. Griffin came to Davidson on August 1 to take over the
post of Director of Admissions.

Griffin did his undergraduate studies at Dickinson College in Pennsylvania. His graduate degree is from Harvard Divinity School, where he
did extensive research on death and dying. He worked as a chaplain at a girl's school in Massachusetts, then went
on to earn his doctorate in higher education administration at Syracuse University, N.Y.

Most recently, Mr. Griffin has worked on the federally funded project CHOICE at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor,
where he was on the graduate faculty. This three-year study oversaw the admissions procedures of twenty institutes of higher education,
ranging from Berkeley to small community colleges.

Why did Griffin give up his prestigious position at the University of Michigan? He explained that he "wasn't able to
work with students, which is very important to me." Griffin sees Davidson's admissions program as "healthy" and one that attracts
a "highly qualified pool of students." He is looking forward to continuing the programs already in progress as well as
expanding the role of students and alumni in talking with prospective students.

When he takes time to relax from his role of advisor/educator, Mr. Griffin enjoys several hobbies. He and his wife
Nancy, a librarian currently working on compiling a bibliography under an Albert Schweitzer Fellowship, make quilts and collect antique furniture
which they use to furnish a restored N.Y. farmhouse built in 1812. They also enjoy family sports such as swimming
and bicycling with their two sons, ages 5 years and 3 months. To them, Davidson is "like coming home... it
is warm and gracious and we look forward to developing the close relationships that are inevitable here."

Barry Cheatham

By WENDY BOULWARE

"I have always liked Davidson and I plan on being here for a while," said Barry Cheatham, the new Director
of Dining Services. Mr. Cheatham is originally from Virginia and has been in North Carolina since his school days at
Elon College. He has always been in the college food services business. Before coming to Davidson as director, he opened
up new food service accounts in other colleges. Prior to that, he was employed at UNCG for 1½ years.

However, it was his employment prior to the two mentioned which probably made him choose Davidson. He was the Assistant
Director of Davidson's Dining Services under then-director Mr. Ron Scott for seven years before he left in the spring of
1974. He returned here on June 1 of this year.

Mr. Cheatham hopes that when he has completed his career at Davidson, he can go into district and regional management
in food services.

Housing: Bill Bolding

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

"I really love it here," said Bill Bolding, new Director of Housing. "From a professional point of view, Davidson has
the most ideal working conditions."

Bolding graduated from the University of Oklahoma with a B.A. degree in Political Science and History; later received his Masters
in Urban Planning, and began working with community housing and planning.

"I got tired of city planning and wanted something more immediate," said Bolding, "so I picked up a Masters degree
in Student Counseling at Stetson."

Although he has the same title and same office, Bolding's responsibilities have increased since he took over the position last
year. "I have jurisdiction in a wide variety of areas since I am responsible for all the residence halls (Richards
and Bailey), and the snack bar in the Union. This dining service caters to the activities of the school such
as freshman orientation, alumni and parents weekends, commencement, and several others. Upon occasion during the summer, they may cater to
weddings. However, Mr. Cheatham said, "while we're open to the Davidson community, the college takes priority."

Mr. Cheatham, Mr. Bob Jordan (Assistant Director), and Ms. Dixie Cashion (manager of the snack bar) are always open to
suggestions. He said, "that way we can find out what the students want." Cheatham added, "We will have a suggestion
board and meet on a regular basis with a student-composed food committee."
