**The Davidsonian**

Founded 1914

—The Facts, Please

Rumors are circulating concerning a key Honor Code violation, and its surprising adjudication. These are the facts: Last Spring, a
student athlete admitted to an Honor Code violation and elected to have the matter handled by the Dean of Students
rather than the Honor Court. The Dean decided to impose a one-term suspension to begin in the fall term. The
student then used his right of appeal and brought the case before the Review Board. The Code of Disciplinary Procedure
dictates that the Review Board shall consider each case individually, “taking into consideration the consequences for the individual involved and
for the community as a whole.” The Review Board granted the student's request that the suspension be postponed until the
winter term. The Review Board may thereby have compromised the effectiveness of the Honor Code. Initial discussion centered on possible
favoritism to prominent athletes; yet it seems unlikely that the Review Board made a decision based on sympathy for big-time
athletics. The Review Board may have been swayed by the possibility that this student's public prominence would attract attention to
his case and that ensuing publicity would be harmful to both the student and the college. The decision to delay
the suspension would then appear to rest on the dubious proposition that the normal prosecution of a student athlete would
invite public ridicule. Widespread speculation has disrupted college life and promises to embarrass everyone until all the facts are in.
Under these circumstances, a full report from the Review Board appears not only justified but imperative.

—Merideth Durden

No Easy Decision

Last spring, three of seven candidates for tenure were informed that they did not measure up to the college’s standards
for granting tenure, as set forth in the Code of Faculty Evaluation, which was completed two months prior to the
decision. Naturally, these three professors are in doubt about their dismissal, as well as their friends, students, and colleagues. In
weighing all the factors involved in the process, consider the following characteristics of Davidson College's position regarding tenure:

1. According to President Samuel Spencer, Davidson has no tenure quotas. Therefore, no quota policy was responsible for the recent
dismissals.
2. Davidson ranks in the highest national percentage for professors with tenure. This means that in times of double-digit inflation,
granting additional tenure means an increased financial burden to the College in salaries. There is a danger of becoming over-tenured.
3. In the event of a sudden decrease in enrollment, due to war, acts of God, etc., a financial burden
of tenured professors could become a financial nightmare.
4. A much higher number of professors was brought up for tenure than usual. This is because of a larger
than usual faculty turnover in the early seventies, bringing in much new blood to the faculty.
5. The professors reviewed last spring were the first to be evaluated under the Code of Faculty Evaluation, for the
Code was brand new.
6. The long-needed Code had not been prepared earlier due to one crucial factor. Frontis Johnston served as Dean of
the Faculty from 1975 until 1977. He did so with the understanding that his term would not exceed two years,
terminating with his retirement. Though there was pressure on Johnston to direct the formation of a code to evaluate faculty,
he believed that such a code should be the work of his successor.
7. When Dr. Price Zimmermann came to Davidson in 1977 to succeed Johnston as Dean of the Faculty, among his
first responsibilities was the formation of the Code. As a newcomer unfamiliar with many of Davidson's (see Decision, page 11)

“Yes OFFICER, — I KNOW — FINES & PROPER PROCEDURE. BUT THE LOUNGE HAS BEEN TRASHED TOO.”

The Campus Forum

Thanks

To the Editor:

Since I did not get to express the following as I would have wished during my year at Davidson, I
am bent on writing this letter before leaving. I can say that I really enjoyed Davidson College where people of
all ages went out of their way to make me feel at home. Of course, I have had difficulties sometimes,
especially at the beginning when the international students seemed to be bound to stick together throughout the year. By that,
I do not mean that I did not appreciate being with them, but only that I was afraid of being
a member...of a group, apparently wishing to remain apart from these so-called obnoxious Americans. What I wanted was to meet
as many Americans as possible, to hear their language with its particular rhythm and accentuation even if it is not
the “right” one in this part of the States known as “the South,” to get rid of this French accent
(one of the projects that has not been achieved), to be able to speak English without having to think for
ages, and I acted this way. At this stage of the letter, I would like to ask the professors who
granted me the honor of attending their lectures—especially Dr. Bliss, Dr. Cornwell, and Herb Jackson—to excuse me for my lack
of assiduity or I have been accused of being “slack,” one of the numerous words that I wrote down in
the notebook that I have been keeping throughout this year, and I am sorry about that because I came with
the idea not to turn down any opportunity that I would be given to meet people and to try to
help them. I would like to express my gratitude to my host family, Dr. and Mrs. Jerry Roberts, who have
been parents to me, to all the persons, French-speaking or not, who did their best to make my stay at
Davidson as enjoyable as possible, and of course, Dr. Charles Dockery, Director of the JYA program at Montpellier during the
past two years, who did me the honor of accepting me as an exchange student at Davidson College. Now that
the academic year is over, I am pleased to say that I got even more than I expected and I
would be ready to start it all again. At first, I thought that I would be able to profit from
my stay while studying but it happened to be very difficult. As a matter of fact, during the fall term
when I studied fairly seriously for my two courses (instead of three like for a regular student), I missed a
lot of opportunities to meet people. I realized that I was doing what I might as well have done in
France, for credit. The library we have at Paul Valery University in Montpellier is far from being as interesting as
the one students have here at Davidson, but I would rather study in the one in Montpellier for credit than
in the one at Davidson for the pleasure of studying. “Take it easy,” to use one of the expressions that
I have been taught.

Marie-Francoise Vidal
International Student '78-'79

Continuing Concern

To the Editor:

We, the sociology majors of Davidson College, would like to express our continuing concern for the tenure refusals of last
spring. We feel particular regret about the decision in Dr. Koller’s case. Although the administration apparently feels that there is
no need to reconsider the decision, we feel the issue should still be open. Thus we urge that the entire
college community consider the problem. It is our opinion that Dr. Koller’s performance met or surpassed the specifications within the
Code of Faculty Evaluation. As sociology majors, we have come to know and appreciate Dr. Koller both as a teacher
and as a person to a degree beyond that of the average student. We are therefore particularly qualified in making
the above judgment. Upon review of the situation, there are three facts which seem obvious. First, Koller has proven himself
to be a tremendous asset to the Sociology department. Second, his contribution to the community has been and continues to
be invaluable. Third, despite the contribution to the College, the students, and the community, the administration has refused to reconsider
the decision.

Davidson Sociology Majors

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200
words) and clarity.

Merideth Darden, Editor
The Bee Ba-Proples, Executive Editor
Jane Torsion, Business Manager
Bette Ansley, Managing Editor
Bert Mubbry, Sports Editor
Shan Gravett, Opinions Editor
Sam Sorucco, Features Editor
Ann Barcel, News Editor
Margaret Jackson, Open Graphics Editor
Lucy Minne, Features Graphics Editor
Howard Browne, News Graphics Editor
Donya Boylston, Production Manager
Karen Long, Circulation Manager
Marshall Waddell, Advertising Coordinator
Richard Neill, Production Associate
Brad Ker, Photography Editor
Gia Partai, Art Editor
Barry Sachtjon, Senior Sports Editor
