Academics of Optimism — Elliott Hipp

The recent interest in the Honor Code has brought to mind several reservations about the code which I have held since I decided to transfer to Davidson last spring. Two comments by Dean Terry in the Davidsonian’s January 19th article express my concerns: “We have sold the Honor System for too long on its convenience” and “Maybe it wouldn’t hurt to be a bit idealistic about the code.”

I would like to think that the main benefit of the code is long term. Davidson, like a number of schools in this country, seeks to prepare its students with a strong academic program. Unlike most colleges of its caliber, Davidson has also declared that it wishes to prepare its students for lives of personal integrity which combine both individual success and community leadership. That goal is met in part by the Honor Code. As stated, the code is negative: cheating, stealing, and lying will not be tolerated. Taken together, these three points can be read as a positive admonition: students will live their lives with integrity.

A useful product of the Honor Code is that while we are at Davidson, we are in the enviable position of knowing that all the other members of our community have agreed to refrain from cheating, stealing, and lying. Our lives are therefore made easier by self-scheduled exams, unproctored reviews, unlocked dorm rooms, and a general freedom to attend to our social and academic lives without undue concern. My fear is that these conveniences are so attractive they have come to be equated with the Honor Code itself. Its purpose of inspiring us to a certain lifestyle after graduation may become mired in our student lifestyle before graduation if we forget that the only true honor is personal integrity.

I have been, as Dean Terry said, “a bit idealistic” in my description of the Honor Code. Concepts like honor and integrity are idealistic because they must be implemented with optimism and perseverance. The immediate question of self-scheduled exams does not bother me unduly. If their abolition serves to reiterate the more transcendent benefits of the Honor Code, then it is well worth the loss of convenience. If the present interest in the code is enough to serve the same purpose without sacrificing the exams, so much the better.

Like the refugee/immigrants to the United States who are more aware of America’s freedoms than we natives, my interest in the Honor Code can perhaps be explained because I came to Davidson as a transfer student. I came from a university in the Ivy League which shares Davidson’s devotion to academics but steadfastly refuses to concern itself with the other aspects of its students’ lives. I want to be taught optimism and perseverance leading to integrity to which I referred above. This, most simply stated, is the reason I transferred to Davidson. I hope the debate which is now taking place will help to strengthen and renew the Honor Code.

Elliott Hipp, a transfer student from Brown University, is a junior history major.

Davidson's Finest — Bill Peeples

Some folks make fun of the Boy Scouts of America, but those critical individuals don’t know any better. Scouting, for the boys who stick with it, is one of the best experiences one can have.

Scouting requires and develops dedication. Sometimes, however, Mother Nature requires a compromise in this dedication. After an arduous Saturday afternoon of rappelling, Davidson Troop 56 returned to camp, only to be confronted with some messy sleet. Rotten weather is known to frequent Stone Mountain State Park (the one in North Carolina, not Georgia), and it picked a bad time to pay a visit. As dark approached, the sleet turned to snow. The boys later described the snowstorm as a blizzard. Troop leaders William Brown, Bruce Wright, and myself decided that we didn’t want to wake up with seven inches of snow on our tents, so we hurriedly packed up. The boys in the troop, whose parents come from all walks of life in Davidson, were not concerned about spending the night in freezing cold. They only hoped that the snow in the mountains would reach Davidson. Too bad. Once we reached the I-40 interchange at Statesville, the snow turned to rain.

I don’t usually wimp out when the snow falls. It is a beautiful thing to behold. But Saturday night it was a freak of nature more disturbing than the hermaphrodite at the county fair. The snow was so bad that you couldn’t see the guy ten feet in front of you with a flashlight. Honest Injun.

Most of the troop’s campouts do not end so dramatically. Usually, they are fun, not frozen. However, the water at Myrtle Beach ain't hot in the early spring, a perennial favorite. Unlike most summer camps, where the boys are sheltered and fed by paid counselors, Boy Scouts do all the dirty work themselves. An amazing self-reliance ensues. The Scouting “experience,” not to be confused with the Davidson experience,has many far-reaching consequences. While the statement, "Scouting builds men" may be a worn-out expression, it is nonetheless valid. Imagine trying to get a fire started with wet wood, damp matches, and freezing rain, all of which may conspire to ruin the evening meal. A Boy Scout patrol goes to bed with empty stomachs. Next time they go camping in the rain, nobody goes hungry. Everybody in the patrol brings along a can of Sterno. The Scouts burn the stuff and cook on it, instead of the wino who drinks it for a pickled liver buzz. Whether applying for college or a job, the rank of Eagle Scout carries a lot of weight. Troop 56 has several of them. The Civil Service exam awards ten extra points to someone who is an Eagle. Scouting is more than freezing in an inadequate sleeping bag and becoming an Eagle Scout with more merit badges than the courses a pre-med major takes. Scouting is a liberal arts education, without going to Davidson. Certain merit badges are required to earn the lower ranks, just as a Davidson student must satisfy area requirements. For the student who must take certain major courses to graduate, a Boy Scout must take necessary merit badge courses to become an Eagle. Citizenship, in the community, nation, and world are emphasized. In a country where seventy percent of the population is lucky to dog paddle, proficiency in swimming and life-saving are all-important to Scouting. First aid, an admission that ordinary citizens must take the place of physicians in extreme circumstances, is a merit badge that each Scout must earn. Elective courses, ranging from animal husbandry to metallurgy, are available. All these courses are no pushover, as evidenced by the fact that only one percent of all Scouts ever make Eagle. Davidson would surely be in a mess if only the same proportion of students ever graduated. More power to the diligent boys who make it so far.

TALL A Two-Way Street

Lack of faith in the honor code. I feel that the code is responsible to a great degree for making Davidson a special place. An atmosphere of trust is desirable and worth working for. I agree fully with the article in a previous issue of the Davidsonian which described the success of the honor code as a serious responsibility of each and every student. Personal pride is the key to making the honor code work. But one thing that the article did not take into account is the importance of mutual trust. While the students must bear a large part of the responsibility in the matter, the faculty is not totally exempt from the obligation. Every faculty member must be willing to exhibit trust in every student to enable the system to work. I do not believe that it is too idealistic to say that a student who knows he is trusted will be at least a little more hesitant to violate this trust by lying, cheating, or stealing.

Conversely, the student who experiences a definite mistrust from a professor through that professor’s air or actions would be more likely to take advantage of a loosely guarded situation. I had a very frustrating experience just last week which brought to my attention how important it is to the student to feel trusted. A professor who should have been particularly supportive of the honor system shocked me by asking our class to leave all books and notebooks outside the room when we came to class on the day of our midterm. I thought the move over carefully and decided that I could live with the incident, although it did bother me immensely. However, my frustration changed to indignation on the actual test day when the professor repeated the instructions, emphasizing with an unmistakable distrustful tone that "anything with any writing on it" should be out of the room. We were even asked to spread our desks apart. I am aware that this attitude is par for the course at schools which do not rely on the honor system. But even at such schools, this method of maintaining "honesty" makes the very serious subject of cheating into a game. It pits students against faculty, not only in testing situations, but in the classroom in general. It removes the professor that much farther from the students toward the end of the scale labeled "enemy" and away from the end labeled "friend."

It is good that we are looking critically at the question of how effective the honor system is in upholding honesty at Davidson. The scrutiny may serve to remind us that the code is not as inseparable from Davidson life as we would like to believe. The honor code is on trial—if we want to keep it, we must work for it, and "we" means not just students, but every single member of the college community. Mutual trust is what we must maintain. Lose that, and we have already killed the honor system.

Esther Bruce is a Stuart Scholar.