Complete text of subcommittee report

The Professional Affairs Committee requested us to “address ...the following questions: What was the intent and purpose of the original
faculty action authorizing self-scheduled examinations? What exceptions, if any, were envisioned at that time? What has been the extent to
which faculty members have used the system since that time? What other practices have been used and to what extent?
What problems have been experienced in the administration of self-scheduled examinations? Ought self-scheduled examinations to be retained and why? How
can examination practices be made more uniform?”

The subcommittee prepared a “Questionnaire on Examination Practice at Davidson” and distributed it to the entire faculty last spring. A
total of 66 responses were obtained by the end of the term. There were 88 faculty actually teaching in the
spring term. A summary of the information obtained from the questionnaire follows:

Of the 226 courses reported on, 41 (18.2%) did not have a final examination, 19 (8.5%) had a take-home exam,
18 scheduled the exam at a single time, and 148 used self-scheduled examinations. Of those using the self-scheduled examinations, in
18 courses the exams were distributed by the professor and 130 were distributed by the distribution center. Thirty-nine of the
faculty were of the opinion that the honor system holds up well during the exams, seven said almost always, four
didn’t know, 11 worry about it, and only one dissented. Thirty-four said the principal strengths were flexibility for the student,
and about a dozen each cited increased chance of honor violation, early preparation of exam, and red tape as weaknesses.
The overall judgment was that 29 liked, seven disliked, and six can live with the system but 12 preferred scheduled
exams. No more than two faculty members favored the same modification in the system. No member of the faculty requested
an opportunity to meet with the subcommittee to present additional information or opinion, although several talked informally with individual subcommittee
members.

Additional information about the use of the system was obtained from the registrar, who provided us with copies of the
report of the person in charge of examination distribution. Problems found in the administration of the self-scheduled exams include: failure
of student to get envelope to faculty on time, failure of faculty to get envelopes to distribution center in time
for suitable arrangement, necessity for lots of student help in distributing large numbers of exams in a short time, necessity
of hiring someone to supervise the distribution, necessity of maintaining security both of untaken and completed exams, difficulties of getting
the last few students to return exams. In other words, anything that can go wrong, does. Still, the reports of
smooth operation are the rule.

In order to sample student opinion, each member of the subcommittee telephoned eight to ten students selected at random from
those students with telephones listed in the college directory. Each student was asked how well the honor system seemed to
work during exams and whether self-scheduled exams were liked or disliked and why. A couple of students said that they
had heard occasional rumors of cheating but all the students indicated that they believed that there was almost no cheating.
The students were unanimous in being strongly in favor of self-scheduled examinations.

A search of the Faculty Minutes from 1969 to 1975 revealed the following about self-scheduled exams: A proposal for self-scheduled
exams was considered by the faculty on January 21, 1969 and rejected. On October 6, 1969, Vice-President Bevan presented a
self-scheduled exam program from the EPC. The faculty approved the program by a 2:1 margin for a two-year experimental period
beginning with the Winter Term, 1970-71. Quoting from the minutes: “It is the understanding of the faculty that procedures...should be
devised by the Academic Vice-President, Registrar, EPC, and other faculty as elected by the faculty or appointed by the President.”
On March 23, 1971, Registrar Burts reported that the self-scheduled examinations had worked well in the Winter Term. On June
1, 1971, the faculty approved a revised statement of Academic Regulations upon the recommendation of the EPC. The Regulations include
Section IV entitled “Reviews and Examinations.” This section was not revised but approved as it had been before. There is
no further mention of self-scheduled exams through Spring 1975. Apparently, we are still in the experimental period for self-scheduled exams
since no record could be found of additional faculty study and approval. We have no way of knowing what the
intent and purpose of the original faculty action was, nor can we find that any exceptions were spelled out or
intended at that time. Our guide...is therefore the Academic Regulations. The present academic regulations on Examinations are the same regulations
that were in effect before the self-scheduled examinations first began in the Winter Term of 1971. In June 1971, the
entire academic regulations were revised and approved by the faculty, but the section on scheduled exams did not create quite
the stir that another one did, but at least it was publishable. Scheduled exams are not mentioned, but "scheduled examinations"
are (in paragraph IV-B-9). It was apparently felt that these regulations were in keeping with the spirit of self-scheduled exams.
We agree with this concept and therefore interpret the regulations as being appropriate to self-scheduled exams.

Several faculty members have suggested to the committee that we abolish the self-scheduled exams and return to scheduled exams. Considering
that a large majority of the faculty appear to be in favor of the self-scheduled method and the students were
unanimous in their support of it, we have rejected that suggestion. Several other faculty members have suggested a "dual system"
under which each lecture hour would be scheduled to have an exam at a specified time (9 AM or 2
PM as now) but under which each professor would decide for each course whether the scheduled examination would be held
or whether self-scheduled exams would be allowed in that particular course. This possibility was discussed, but it was felt that
the disadvantages of this dual system far outweighed the advantages. Therefore, we recommend that, after our extended successful trial, the
faculty reaffirm its approval of the self-scheduled examination system with certain clarifications and modifications.

RECOMMENDATIONS:
A. The EPC recommends that the faculty reaffirm its approval of self-scheduled examinations.
B. The EPC recommends that the faculty adopt the following policy statements for the administration of self-scheduled examinations:
1. An examination is recommended for all courses for which exams are appropriate.
2. All examinations are to be given only on the days designated as examination days. That is, not on the
last day of classes and not on the reading day. Any exception must be approved by the Dean of the
Faculty. Any "review" scheduled for more than one hour in the last few days of classes is really an exam
and therefore is not allowed.
3. Faculty members are authorized to distribute and collect their own examinations during the regular self-scheduled periods. Occasionally, a colleague
could perform this task for the faculty member, but the primary responsibility lies with the professor who teaches the course.
4. The Dean of Students office assumes responsibility for collection and distribution of the self-scheduled exams not handled by the
individual faculty members. (Effective Spring Term 1979)
5. The Dean of the Faculty is authorized to require that seniors take all their final examinations before the last
scheduled day of examinations in the spring term so that the faculty may have a reasonable time to report senior
grades for that term.
6. Examinations which require that the entire class be present at the same time should be given only when required
by the nature of the examination and when authorized by the Dean of the Faculty.
7. The type of examination should be clearly stated in the syllabus for each course.
8. The Dean of Students is directed to add or modify rules governing student conduct for self-scheduled examinations so that
honor violations are discouraged and honorable behavior is encouraged. Such rules should be widely publicized for both faculty and students.
For example, the student might be prohibited from studying after she or he has actually picked up the examination, and
studying might be prohibited in examination areas during examination periods.

Faculty to request pay hike
By CHARLIE HAWKINS
Staff Writer

When faculty representatives meet with College Trustees during the weekend of Feb. 23, they are expected to ask for an
immediate ten percent wage hike. Many professors say they feel faculty salaries are so low that they threaten the academic
quality of Davidson. "It's critical already," commented Alexander McKelway, President of the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University
Professors. "What we're pretty sure of is that neither the administration nor the trustees are doing enough," he added.

In a report to the AAUP, the AAUP claimed that current salaries are 18 percent less than in 1966-67 after
being adjusted for inflation. Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann explained that the greatest erosion of salaries occurred in the mid-1970s when
the inflation rate was high while faculty salary increases hovered around six percent. "We're all the victims of inflation and
the failure of the government to control inflation," said Zimmermann.
