lieve the crowding

for the new dorms—$200,000 from the Belk Foundation of Charlotte and $200,000 more from an undisclosed source. Spencer said that the dorms should cost about $500,000 apiece.

Rooms will be arranged in clusters, with four clusters and a lounge on each floor. Each dorm will have two floors.

There is a possibility that two more new dorms will be built. Spencer said, “One of the things that will determine if we build two or four dorms is whether or not we receive a loan from HUD.” Spencer said that “it would give us an opportunity to add approximately one hundred female students to the total enrollment subject to trustee approval.”

The revenues from one hundred new students would allow the college to hire eight new professors. Thus, the student-faculty ratio would remain about 13 to 1. According to Spencer, “Increasing the enrollment would not decrease the quality of education and might even increase it.” Terry said that there are two reasons why the four dorms are needed: so many people are living in First, seventy-five fewer than expected upperclassmen moved off campus, and second, more freshmen than expected enrolled.

According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, so many students wanted to live on campus that the lounges and triples were the only places to put them. There was also a furniture shortage and a shortage of bunk bed connectors. These shortages should soon be corrected, Bolding said.

Commons construction to begin in ‘80

By BOE YOUNG
Staff Correspondent

Construction of the campus Commons, a new three million dollar eating facility for freshmen and independents “will hopefully begin by January 1980,” says Director of Physical Plant Grover Meetze and “should be completed in 18 months.”

Originally plans called for beginning at the start of this summer. However, construction was delayed so that surveying for an alternative location in the Lingle Manor area could take place.

According to Meetze, more time was needed since the moving of power lines and excessive landscaping, all of which would be a necessity if the Commons were to be built where planned, was thought too costly at the time.

The Commons will be built between where Bailey and Richards stand now.

Bailey and Richards will be moved to other locations on Patterson Court; Bailey between F&M and ETC, and Richards between Rusk and PAX.

Presently the project is in the blueprint stage with Little Associates hired to do the designing. However, the construction contract is still open.

“You Didn’t Read It In

Peregrine House

HAPPY HOUR
Food-Drink-Music
Thursday & Friday nights
8:30-10 o'clock

BALLET ARTS WORKSHOP
108 South Main Street
Davidson, NC

Beginners through Master Level
Male and Female

For Further Information and Registration Call 892-5709

Christina Williams
Director and Dance Master
25 years of experience

Classes in Session
September through May

The Davidson Update,
It Didn't Happen.”

If we students at The Davidsonian believed that, we wouldn't be publishing weekly. But we are. These are a few of the things we do differently:

Propaganda is not our policy. We don’t try to sell you Davidson ties, blazers, or rocking chairs-- (Just subscriptions.) Which is the point of all this. We want you to keep up with Davidson: The Davidsonian

“The Hassle-Free Way To Furnish Your Apartment”

Renting furniture for a 3-room apartment costs less than 2 beers per day, with the MetroLease “STUDENT SPECIAL” FURNITURE RENTAL GROUP.

(Student Special Group is similar to furniture pictured.)

Here’s what you get on a 4-month lease:
- One Sofa
- One Matching Chair
- Two Table Lamps
- Two End Tables
- One Cocktail Table
- One Dinette and Four Matching Chairs
- One Dresser and Mirror or Chest of Drawers
- One Single or Double Bed with Headboard
- One Night Stand
- One Bedroom Lamp

915 E. 4th St.
Charlotte, N.C.
333-3159

5237 Albemarle Rd
Charlotte, N.C.
536-8739

open 9-9 Mon.-Fri.
9-5 Sat.

METROLEASE® FURNITURE RENTALS
Box 218

(FREE DELIVERY)

Keep in touch with Davidson, Support The Davidsonian.

Renewal Make checks payable to: