(Continued from page 1)
sponsible for “coming up with an alternative form.”

Both the desirability of systematic student evaluation and, in practical terms, “what the faculty is willing to do” will have
to be thoroughly investigated, Abbott said.

McKelway recommended that PAC first formulate a “clear statement of policy,” which would provide guidelines for “measuring and handling student
evaluations.” “We need, not a set structure, but an approach, a philosophy,” he said.

In the past, student letters and interviews have been used in administrative decisions. However, Zimmermann said in addition to these
he would like a standardized process which provides “normative data against which you can measure specific inquiries.”

“We tend to form our perceptions from what students tell us. But this is necessarily piecemeal data, not systematically obtained,”
Zimmermann said.

The goal, said Kello, is to “get information in as objective a way as possible. Voting down the ICES forms
means keeping the old, more piecemeal system.”

English professor Randy Nelson agreed, saying, “I think there should be some formal mechanism for student evaluation. I specifically would
like to be compared to all of the faculty.”

“Students owe me honest thinking critically, or else I’m not doing my job.” He said an evaluation procedure would be
useful both in “constructive criticism” for the professor and as “a factor in every single administrative decision which affects a
faculty member's career.”

McKelway said he felt the faculty “doesn’t think that there is one single instrument which could universally apply. Standardized forms
are less fair because they give the impression of objectivity.”

On a campus as small as Davidson, McKelway said, “students inevitably evaluate,” and their evaluations are heard. “The danger is
to put students’ perception of educational value before the college’s perception.”

Student evaluation should be “more individualized,” tailored to the course and to the professor, McKelway said.

Whatever system is finally implemented, the question should be resolved as soon as possible, Abbott explained.

College President Samuel Spencer said, “I hope very much that we will get to a systematic evaluation procedure as quickly
as we can.”

“It’s going to be done,” said Abbott. “We just have to find out exactly where we stand.”

Commons

make the depth of the stairs 20 to 20 feet instead of 15.

However, Meetze said that shortening the conveyor belt would not be a practical solution because it would cut down on
the efficiency of the tray retrieval system.

Meetze said a shortened conveyor belt's efficiency would be especially low when the dining room was at its full capacity
of 590 diners.

See four of America’s top college teams play. Who to play for Davidson will be here at home. In opening
night action on December 7, Davidson meets NCAA semi-finalist Penn, and UNCC meets Oklahoma State.

On December 8, winners and losers will meet for the championship. Tipoff on both nights is at 7:00 and 9:00
pm.

Tom Liefsen, December 7-8.
