- THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914 -

Athletic Expenditures

The recently released expenditure figures pleasantly surprised some of the people who are concerned about the athletic program at Davidson.
Certain members of the recently-formed Coalition for Better Education, representatives from the Senate who worked with the athletic budget, and
members of The Davidsonian staff anticipated more severe figures. Although many still feel that spending for certain sports is excessive
when compared with academic expenditures, the total magnitude of the sports figures is less than many people anticipated. But overwhelming
questions still remain. What is a realistic level of competition for the basketball team? Does the football program warrant its
current percentage of the athletic budget? These are only two of the important questions facing the Davidson College community.

We have the athletic figures, but we don’t have all the information we need to debate the big questions. There
are three specific expenditure questions that need to be answered before we can tackle the real issues:

1) Is the present athletic budget consistent with the purpose of the college? In 1973 the Trustees reaffirmed “their belief
in the value of a strong and positive program of athletics and physical education as an essential ingredient in Davidson’s
total educational effort.” In 1979, as the figures show, physical education accounted for 13 percent of the net athletic expense.
The two major sports, on the other hand, accounted for 57 percent of the net athletic budget. Is this composition
compatible with the goals of the college? According to the Comptroller, the total cost of athletics as a percentage of
the total 1979 college budget was 8.9 percent. But this figure by itself is not extremely significant. We need to
know percentage totals for other expenditures, like faculty compensation, physical plant, etc. Spencer has promised to release the pertinent figures
next week.

2) How much is alumni giving dependent upon the success of our football and basketball teams? The fact that giving
would decrease is an argument often used against shifting athletic priorities. We need to know the projected magnitude of this
decrease.

3) Are minor sports being discriminated against? As previously mentioned, Davidson’s two major sports use up over half of the
annual athletic budget. Every year the minor sports are asked to do more and more, but they are, reportedly, not
given sufficient increases in budgets. Here the figures can be misleading due to the increasing number of teams. This number
has grown rapidly recently; lacrosse, field hockey, and women’s cross country being a few examples. At larger schools, the major
sports often pay for all the other sports. Ideally, their gate receipts and television incomes keep the athletic departments in
the black. But at Davidson, this is not the situation. Major programs run deficits, even after funds from the Wildcat
Club have been added. Why?

The Trustees stated in 1973 that Davidson's athletic program should include “a strong and broad program of intercollegiate competition with
a goal of success at a realistic level for each sport.” For basketball, our current expectations are probably higher than
for, say, track, but our spending should give all minor sports a fighting chance.

The 1973 statement also proposes that “the Wildcat Club be requested to broaden the scope of its fundraising effort to
supplement the funding of the entire intercollegiate athletic program.” But the recently released budget shows Wildcat funds applied only to
the football program. If this is the case, then donors to the Wildcat Club are being deceived. A better bet
is that present disbursement techniques do not allow for careful accounting of disbursements. This needs to be changed.

The Campus Forum

Coalition

To the Editor:

Bill Peeples (“Checking Up on the Coalition”) seems to have misunderstood the thrust of Elliott Hipp’s (“Priorities”) column the week
before. The stated purpose of Hipp’s article was to stimulate a debate seeking to improve Davidson’s educational quality. Hipp’s article
mainly asks questions to help start a dialogue on the role of Davidson’s athletic expenditures in relationship to the college
budget. Peeples, on the contrary, seemed to view Hipp’s article as a list of accusations directed mainly at the football
team. Peeples’ reactions demonstrate the main problem the Coalition has encountered since it began its investigations three weeks ago: specifically
that the Coalition is viewed by some as...anti-football, when in fact it is pro-education. Admittedly, we have shown much concern
over the football program, but hopefully, as the Coalition continues its work, its image as a single-issue group will be
corrected. Another problem Peeples’ article demonstrates is that the gathering and presentation of accurate information in an understandable form is
a difficult task. For example, the information for the Coalition’s first poster comparing the athletic budgets of Davidson and Southwestern
at Memphis came from what we felt was a dependable source. It turns out the poster is misleading due to
different methods of compiling budget figures of the two schools. Also, the possibility of human error is increased when dealing
with figures. For example, Peeples challenged Hipp’s stated figure of $41,021 for Davidson football recruiting in 1978. Both Hipp and
Peeples cited the April 1979 issue of the Davidson Update as their source. Apparently, Peeples accidentally quoted the $26,170 figure
from the 1969 budget in the left column instead of the correct $41,021 figure for 1978 in the right column.
The point is that we are struggling to present accurate information. Within the next few months, we will present information
on such projects as ten-foot fairy which will better illustrate our concern that the quality of education at Davidson is
threatened by the disproportionate role that athletic expenditures play in the college’s budget. We recognize that our credibility as an
organization rests upon the reliability of the information we publish. In the future, the Coalition will redouble its efforts to
thoroughly document any information it publishes, but we are confident that any mistakes we do make will not go long
misreported under the careful eye of students such as Bill Peeples.

Frazier Worth
Jeff Williams
Rusty King
Whit Wampler
Members of the C.B.E.

The Rube Lives
To the Editor:
I wish to squelch a rumor that has filtered out of Davidson, crossed the Mason-Dixon line, and made its way
to this sleepy community on the Charles. I am not, nor do I plan to be, a member of the
Harvard College Bowl team. In my opinion, only undergraduates should play intercollegiate College Bowl. Secondly, any College Bowl participation by
me for Harvard, Yale or Weber State (What conference is it in, Newcomb?) would be anticlimactic to my experience with
the 1979 Davidson team. Finally, and perhaps most important, the Harvard team does not have the classic work, How to
Fish Good, by Milton “Stanley” Poltroon. Without it, they cannot have the proper psychological preparation for a College Bowl match.

Tom Ruby ’79
P.S. Otis Birdsong lives.

Morning Glory Seeds
To the Editor:
We would like to officially open season on sweaters. The mandatory Davidson mushroom invasion has been successfully completed; we are
proud to announce that our performance in fungus cultivation excels any attempts in the past decade. Slimy green mold lovers
may have noticed our efforts in rings in front of Chambers and hard, orange fungi clinging to several trees in
front of Cannon. Most suburbs were overwhelmed by our “rain and rot” program; we would like to take a moment
to pay gratitude to all the mildewed jeans which made it all possible.

Wednesday evening kicked off our wonderful odors campaign; observant scholars may have noticed the scent of decaying leaves, syrupy Yaupon
holly flowers, and dusky wood smoke in the air. Also making an appearance was the indescribable smell of crisp, cold
air. A tranquil West Wind proved quite instrumental in blending this fine, vintage air. Sights have contributed enormously to our
1979 Autumn Experience. The maple tree near the Student Union is doing a memorable job in painting gorgeous oranges and
reds; these colors are best appreciated during the misty moonlit evenings we have been staging recently. A moment of starlight
viewing will provide students with years of cigar box memories. Finally, the clanking of pipes, the smell of scorching clothing
thrown carelessly over warming radiators, and the drying, dusty air permeating your dormitories signal the Physical Plant’s acknowledgement of our
excellent performance in creating another spectacular Fall. Thank you!

Very lovingly yours,
The Wood Fairies

Merideth Durden, Editor
Bill Peeples, Executive Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Mark Barrett, News Editor
Barry Sechien, Senior Sports Editor
