i

Saree Cin

} Brlcad
Se % 3

~~ those wiggling eyebrows beats the heart of a man who once referred to himself as “God's Gift to Davidson.”
Although he has only taught here four years, John (Dr. Kello to his close friends) has captured the imagination of
psych students much the same way Viet Nam did that of Cambodia.

Dr. Kello has more advisees than any other professor in the psychology department. Many a student has found his door
wide open, and heard such consolation as “Have you ever thought of selling insurance?” or “I'd like to recommend you
for graduate school but it might jeopardize my standing with the APA Ethical Conduct Committee.”

Kelton

HOBBIES: none
MEMORABLE QUOTE: “You mean this isn’t Personality 102? Why didn’t you tell me that a week ago?”

SCOTCH: Tape

Not just another John, Dr. Kelton is often referred to as the Doug Houchens of psychology. Reactions to his classes
range from “dry” to “Oh, so that’s who that guy was; I was wondering what he was doing in our
class.”

John was chairman of the psych department until 1977 when Drs. Kello and Brockway began rerouting his mail and phone
calls to the Davidson laundry. He now spends his declining years in his little office on second Chambers, a broken
man surrounded by his books, his memories, and his shrunken head collection.

One day one of Dr. Kelton's advisees walked into his office to have him sign a course registration form.

Student: Here, sign this.

Dr. K.: What, is this a registration form?

Student: No, it’s a banana.

Dr. K.: Hold on a minute, you want me to sign a banana?

Student: What?

Dr. K.: What?

Student: Look, just sign the form!

Dr. K.: Wait, I still don’t get it. What banana?

Student: What?

Dr. K.: What?

Ostwalt

Frequently mistaken for Nikita Kruschev

Palmer

Transplanting hair in the comfort of his own home using a technique he heard about on TV.

Webster

Hasn’t ever heard of Valium.

Burts

Already planning for next spring’s computer failure.

Religion

Clark

Who drives a 28-foot, maroon, no-knox-powered Lincoln home every afternoon to his hideaway villa in the lush countryside a few
miles from Davidson? T-Bird—D.C.’s own struggling professor of religion.

Religion and religious art. You know, art is probably the second most important thing in Tommy’s life—next to his cars.
Yessir, Tommy’s an artsy-fartsy guy. When he’s not doing busts, he’s usually looking at them. Whether it's Michelangelo’s Lorenzo Medici
or the finer aspects of an Eternal Spring, T-Bird has always got art on his mind.

Dr. Rhodes spent his childhood building split-rail fences in Illinois. He regularly rends his garments. He gave up sex for
Lent.

Kaylor

He couldn't get the hang of Christianity, so he opted for far-eastern cults and became a middle-aged moonie. He gave
up Lent for sex.

Polley

While faculty nicknames are often trite, they are always appropriate. Davidson students know Max Polley by several cordial terms. “Max
the Axe” and “New Improved Yahweh” are popular. “Max the Ass” is more fitting.

While he outwardly opposes basketball, football, and every other sport at Davidson, inwardly he suffers from an inferiority complex: he
is not the prophet he longs to be. Actually, his greatest ambition is not a matter of prophet, but profit,
and he bitches constantly in class about faculty pay.

While in “Faith of Israel” he rambles incongruently about the moving faith of Moses, Samuel, and Isaiah, he cannot keep
the faith in Davidson’s budget priorities. For this reason, next fall he will transfer from the Department of Religion to
Economics. He plans to instruct a course entitled “Finance and Conscience for Private Colleges.”

Root

The basic problem with Dr. Root is that he looks like Mark Duckett.

McKelway

Dr. Alexander McKelway is often referred to as Sandy Barth. His concern with faculty salaries is exemplified by his desire
to own a second Mercedes-Benz. If he gets it, he'll have another to illegally park in front of Derby house.

Maloney

Knew Judas Iscariot was a commie all along.

Sociology

Ruth, Koller, Myers

Since we all know that Sociology is a wimp major and not worthy of the true liberal arts student, we’ve
decided not to give these guys any ratings. All that can be said for them is that they're great for
your GPA!

Spanish

Kemp

Sandy of the Golden Sandals has led bold Davidson students across shining oceans, through throngs of shrieking Spaniards, and into
houses with wild dark charms.

Rogerson

His courses are sleeping proof that “Spanish is the easiest foreign language.”

Hlibtschuk

What can one say about a 31-year-old boy who tried? This cross-cultural Ukrainian has decided to give up teaching after
his three years at Davidson. What can one say? (He can say it in seven languages.)
