“THE DAVIDSONIAN ~ Is PIRG the Best Way? In the recent furor over the North Carolina Public Interest Research Group’s
funding problem at Davidson, many people have concentrated on the unilateral decision to end “automatic” funding. Davidson students must refocus
their attitude towards PIRG. This is an opportunity to assess PIRG at Davidson and decide if it is worth continuing.
The referendum on Tuesday is much like the liquor-by-the-drink vote held in Mecklenburg County not long ago. It is essentially
a matter of freedom; people are not so much endorsing PIRG as they are voting whether there should even be
a PIRG chapter at Davidson. The group has indicated that without the current income that they have been receiving from
revenues collected from students' bills, they cannot continue to operate. In the past, PIRG at Davidson has annually sent about
$4000 to the central N.C. PIRG Office in Durham. The Durham office is Davidson PIRG's lifeblood in terms of research,
support, and continuity. If the referendum fails, their money is gone, therefore, their connection with this central office is severed.
PIRG dies at Davidson. So the referendum boils down to the question “Should PIRG exist at Davidson?” Underlying this query
are more or less theoretical questions that should be considered before the voting begins. Specifically:

—What does the college owe any extracurricular group? If the college is to help a group collect funds because that
group helps the residents of both the college and the state, then could not the case be made for collecting
money for other community-oriented organizations, like the Y Student Service Corps?
—What exactly has PIRG at Davidson accomplished? References to a pharmaceutical drug survey, nuclear rallies, and a Nestle boycott are
nebulous; we need to know specifics.
—PIRG claims it really needs the state organization, but just how much money would they have to send to the
central office in Durham to maintain a relationship? Last year our chapter sent $4000 to Durham and got back $400
to use right here on campus. Would the central office stop supporting the Davidson chapter if it sent only $500?

The Davidsonian is neither defending nor attacking PIRG. Active involvement by Davidson students in public interest issues is important. The
question is “Is PIRG the best way?”
—Merideth Durden

To the Editor:
Once again the spectre of satire rears its ugly head at Davidson, and the good people of the college sally
forth to do battle with it—be it good, bad, or indifferent. I refer, of course, to the column on Josh
McDowell and the subsequent letter to the editor by Messrs. Niblock and Malone.

First, Mason’s column was presented as opinion, not as a news story. Under those circumstances, the two indignant authors of
the epistle had no right to encourage the denial of the right to self-expression to Mike Mason simply because his
opinions do not coincide with those of Messrs. Niblock and Malone. My uncle, himself a Presbyterian minister, is fond of
saying that when you throw a rock into a pack of dogs, the one who yelps loudest is the one
you hit. In other words, it is their own closed-mindedness that Niblock and Malone should be worried about. Though but
a freshman, Mason’s writing style shows that he is secure enough that he is not afraid to be humorously self-deprecating.

The improvement of the team is mainly attributable to Dr. Koller’s presence on the team. At the expense of his
own free time, Dr. Koller has spent numerous hours with the team organizing and coaching it efficiently and effectively. In
addition to this, Dr. Koller is the first Davidson cross-country failure to clarify this: the situation has caused significant disenchantment
among all students. We feel some sort of clarification has become a necessity. We require a substantial reply. At this
point, it is our feeling that an injustice has been done, perhaps through error, to those people denied tenure last
spring. Dr. Koller, of our department, is of special concern to us, as well as the case we know best,
and thus will be the main concentration of this petition. Undoubtedly by now you are tired of seeing letters in
support of him, considering the volume written, but apparently still more is needed. We wouldin print. This quality is lacking
in far too many Davidson students, not to mention many writers who are thrice Mason’s age and have proportionately more
writing experience. Mason subtly pokes fun at his own attitudes (which even the most ardent feminist will probably admit are
ingrained by society and not self-developed); this fact goes over the heads of our two irate epistolarians. Perhaps Mason’s opinions
are chauvinism, but are Niblock and Malone any more qualified than anyone else to say that? I think not. I
personally find Mason's column a refreshing change from the semi-literate fluff of Bill Peeples and the outright garbage of Bonehead
and the Brick Brothers, who haven't got the guts to sign their names while freely assassinating more characters than ever
got zapped in the Guide to Courses at Davidson. I extend to Mason my best wishes for a long and
successful career as a Davidsonian columnist. If one lacks the ability to laugh at oneself, one can’t really live in
this world—one only survives. Mike Mason has shown himself to be more than just another survivor.

Hooper Alexander, IV ‘82

Cross Country

To the Editor:

The recent tenure decision concerning Dr. Koller has left coach to actively recruit runners. Last year Dr. Koller helped create
the women’s cross-country team. He managed to skimp and save so that he was able to run both teams off
of the men’s budget, which was $1,200.00 last year. Last year’s budget for the cheerleaders was $1,000.00. Because of the
spirit generated by Dr. Koller this year’s team has swelled to sixteen members. The loss of Dr. Koller would be
a tragic blow to the cross-country team. We hope that the administration and the trustees will take a serious look
at their recent tenure decision regarding Dr. Koller to see if a few months hindsight hasn’t changed their decision.

Davidson men's cross-country team, 1979-80

Professors For PIRG

To the Editor:

On Tuesday, October 9th, the student body here makes a choice—whether or not a chapter of the North Carolina Public
Interest Research Group (NC PIRG) will continue to exist at Davidson. We hope students will make a wise choice. A
complete education requires concern with real-world problems and issues, as well as with academic subjects. When students tackle public policy
matters which concern them and learn through research, advocacy, and lobbying how changes are effected, an invaluable addition to their
education results. Since 1973, NC PIRG, with its state-wide structure and full-time staff, has given Davidson students opportunities to learn
how to move towards solutions to social problems in these ways. We urge Davidson students to continue to be part
of this significant state and national effort by voting to keep a PIRG chapter at Davidson.

C. Early Edmonds
A.S. Abbott
Lauren Yoder

Editor's Note: This letter was written as an open appeal to Dr. Spencer. It was signed by all of Davidson's
Sociology majors:

We present to you this petition in the hope that somehow an agreement can be reached about last May's unfortunate
tenure denials. We would like to address ourselves first to the case as it relates to the new Code of
Faculty Evaluation. The first and foremost criteria for professors stated within the Code is excellence in teaching. This is, as
it should be, the primary consideration in the tenure decision. Davidson has a tradition of commitment to the teaching of
students, as stated in the Statement of Purpose: “...Davidson has chosen to be a college, to emphasize the teaching responsibility
of all professors...” etc. On this point, it is hard to believe that anyone at this institution could be significantly
better qualified than Dr. Koller. His student evaluations have always been high, both written and verbal. His courses are in
high demand. The quality of his lectures is unsurpassed within the department and ranks with the top in the school.
He has introduced five new courses into the curriculum and is almost constantly overloaded. It may seem a bit cliché
to say that the students are the best judges of a professor’s teaching ability; nevertheless, no one else has heard
as many of his lectures, taken as many independent studies from him, nor gained as many benefits from his commitment
as we. By the only yardstick available, the man more than measures up. As far as Dr. Koller’s intellect—

(See Sociology, page 2)
