Davidson CROP prepares for world hunger fast

By JOHN TUCKER
Staff Writer

Upperclassmen who eat on the court are signing up this week for a campus-wide day of fasting, Tuesday, October 16. Proceeds from the fast will go to help fight world hunger.

Tandy Gilliland explained that “though we’re asking people to sign up individually, we’re hoping that whole houses will decide to fast. By signing up this far in advance, it will allow the houses to order less food for that day and thus give the savings to CROP.”

CROP, the Community Hunger Appeal of Church World Service, supports community development projects such as irrigation, seed improvement, and village water supply as well as provides relief to many refugee and disaster victims.

The fast will be all day Tuesday with an informal worship service being held in the 900 Room at 1:00 in place of the regular CROP meal. Fruit juices will be served to all those fasting.

Frizzle Willis noted, “This is a great idea, in a world where half the people are hungry, fasting can help draw us all closer together.”

Professor Frank Bliss attended the gala opening of “Charlotte on Ice.” The unique exhibition features area artists and will be on display in the gallery during the month of October.

The top seven runners on Davidson's cross-country team are, from left, Jeff Morrow, Danny Armistead, Terry Morrow, Bart Landess, Jack Smith, George Strobel, and John Hoots. The running Cats face three Southern Conference teams this Saturday.

HOW TO REVERSE THE ARMS RACE
OCTOBER 14-16, 1979
Sponsored by the Riverside Church
A National Convocation
120 Street and Riverside Drive
New York City, NY 10027
(212) 749-7000

Leading workshop with Richard Falk, Wm. Sloane Coffin, Rep. John Conyers, Dr. Helen Caldicott, Wm. A. Winpisinger, Sen. Mark Hatfield

Excitement affects their synapses

Homecoming is a mixed-up affair for B&BB

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

1. East Men
2. PIKA
3. Caribou Lips
4. WARKS
5. Born to Run
6. Old Men
7. Wild Ones
8. Hurtin 4 Certin
9. KA
10. SAE

Later? Saturday late room study night all the in face eating was who. Quarterback at alternate to continue Jordan and Woodham as undefeated remains State Florida. Returns Hogman that it has rumor. Week this for all that’s.

6 US, 7 Ruskeller: IMAC Women’s. ?7 get they did hell the in How. 7 Sheep Fighting, 60 SAE. 12 Sores Running, 28 Men Old. 7 ATO, 20 Forces Longitudinal. 18 ARA, 26 Men East. 7 Abandon Reckless, 19 Theory Bullet Single. 0 ARA, 24 Warks. 12 Nads, 40 Certin 4 Hurtin: Also.

6 Meet The, 45 Certin 4 Hurtin. 12 Nads, 33 Men East. 25 Apes Yard, 31 Meet The. 6 Islanders, 66 Men Old. 13 Enema Public, 32 Men East. 12 Our Meets, 39 PIKA. 12 SPE, 45 Ones Wild. 0 Club Yachting, 52 Run to Born: were scores.

The Game each of report depth in an give to decided have we week this, however. True very is this. Teams the of all representing not of past the in accused been have we.

Report IMAC the for now. It for go. You will so and past the in these with luck had have we, (Kim) -6822 or (Sally) -6428 try to want might you. Joyce: for ask and 892-6319 call yet date a have don't you if, Homecoming happening is that all that’s, well.

One that about out find to article Weekend Parent's the for wait to have will you guess. Weekend Parent’s happens that, yeah Oh. Scrimmage basketball a is there if day big really the be will Saturday.

Morning Saturday headache a have won’t you and cold too isn't water bong the sure make. Water bong of can oz. 16 a shotgun should you time concert before minutes ten and, advance in days two for eat not should you concert the to go to plan you if that recommend would we. Shirts-T peripatetic those on advertise they that weekend beach that at play to them ask may PIKA’s the and excellent be should they, up shows group the if. Auditorium Love in play to Cornelius from group rock punk some for arranged has Committee Dance and Song Union the occasion the honor to. Kid college a being at attempt last one for back come again see never would you that hoped you who alumni-recent the all when night the is night tomorrow.

Davidson, 6 Box at advance in up picked be can tickets. Isn't show the of rest the if even seeing worth are they but, prize first for compete to able be not will and group professional a are KIWIS the. Shelby Willie by performance solo a with Haynes Jim by directed Chorus Kiwi the featuring Tales Hat and the regular be will there weekend the start to. Events. week’s this about excited really are we.

Drugs face cannot who those for is reality that remember just. Print our read you if bit: