Magna Vis Veritatis  
Volume LXIX, Number 7  

Students build solar greenhouse  
By ELIZABETH KISS  
News Editor  

Members of the Davidson Energy Group and other interested students are engaged this week in building a solar greenhouse in Huntersville. It is the first solar energy-based project in the area. The 16 by 10 foot greenhouse, explained Junior Geoff Little, one of the coordinators of the project, is a “passive solar design,” circulating heat without a motor. Steel drums, painted black and filled with water, absorb heat during the day. Cool air, entering from vents in the cellar, is heated by the drums. As it rises, this heated air passes into the house through windows. The Energy Group plans to publish a newsletter on greenhouse construction after the (See Solar, page 2)  

News Analysis  

Members of Davidson's Energy Group help Mr. Ernest Williams with the construction of his solar greenhouse.  

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.  
October 26, 1979  
(Brad Kerr)  

Peeping tom suspect accused of gazing into Cannon and Richardson  
By ELIZABETH KISS  
Assistant News Editor  

Robert A. Witte, 22, was arrested near Richardson dorm by campus police last Saturday, at 2:10 am following a report of a prowler outside of Cannon. Patrolman J.M. Griffin, who made the arrest, charged Witte with trespassing, being a peeping tom, and possession of marijuana, a misdemeanor. The trial date has not been set.  

Two years ago, Davidson resident Witte was arrested for chasing two female students on the third floor of Little dorm with a butcher knife. He was forbidden by a court order to return to college property.  

Senior Anna Hutchinson heard some rustling outside her window in basement Cannon around 1:30 am. “I looked out and there was a guy standing, looking in the window,” she said. “I asked him who he was,  

Faculty compensation increases in dollars but decreases against inflation  
By MARK BARRETT  
News Editor  

A Davidson professorship is certainly not a goldmine, according to statistics recently released by the College and Davidson’s chapter of the American Association of University Professors. Although the Trustees have given the faculty a pay raise each of the past five years, inflation has more than offset the increases almost every year, according to the AAUP’s report to the Trustees last spring. And faculty members are concerned, both for the quality of education at Davidson, and for their own financial well-being. Even the extra 7 percent increase the Trustees allotted for faculty and staff salaries probably will not result in an increase in real faculty income, since most economists are estimating inflation for this year at around 11 percent.  

William Styron, prominent author, to return to Davidson  
By AIDA DOSS  
Staff Writer  

The announcement sheet has been touting his visit for several weeks, the faces of English professors light up at the mention of his name, and his novels are some of the hottest moving books in the library. He is William Styron, author of the current bestseller Sophie’s Choice and a former Davidson student, returning next Wednesday to meet with professors and students and to give a reading from some of his works in Love Auditorium. He is widely considered to be a major force in current American literature. Said Tony Abbott, English professor: “I think most people would rank him among the top dozen or so contemporary American novelists.”  

Styron’s latest novel is the fifth in his writing career which began with the publication of Lie Down in Darkness in 1961 and continued with The Long March and Set This House on Fire. Connie Welsh, wife of Music professor Wilmer Welsh, recalls that she was “absolutely delighted” with these earlier novels. “I felt I had discovered a major writer. His writing was swift andbeautiful.” In 1967, *The Confessions of Nat Turner* was met with mixed critical acclaim and controversy. It won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, but many blacks were distressed that Styron had so completely fictionalized an actual and important event in the history of the blacks’ struggle for emancipation. They felt that certain major aspects of the history of Turner’s rebellion had been trivialized, and they also doubted whether a twentieth-century white author could truly transmit the emotions of a nineteenth-century black slave onto the printed page. History professor David Shi admits that Styron “distorted the facts to fit a contemporary theme,” but adds that *Confessions* was “a period piece which reflected the ambiance of the sixties. Styron’s merit is that he tries to deal with the large issues and is unafraid to grapple with the complex and frustrating moral problems of this era.” Shi believes that such literature can be read as social commentary, as a force to promote change in a positive way.

If William Styron does indeed wish to increase awareness and promote social understanding, as well as tell an entertaining story, he has picked a magnificent subject in *Sophie’s Choice*—the Holocaust and the awful attempt at Jewish extermination by the Nazis. I picked up a copy of the novel this summer after reading several reviews by major periodicals, almost all of which were glowingly favorable and which hailed Styron as a major and driving force in American literature. I had been led to expect a good story with real, not contrived, motives behind it—and I was not disappointed. (See Styron, page 11).

The average total compensation (including retirement, medical insurance, and other fringe benefits) for a full professor is now $33,685; Associate Professor $26,486; Assistant Professor $19,978; and Instructor $16,007. The average total compensation for all ranks is $25,658. In terms of 1966 dollars, the average total compensation for all ranks has dropped from $13,301 in 1966-67 to $11,930 in 1978-79. Unless the economy makes a sudden change, the downward trend is expected to continue this academic year. College President Samuel Spencer explained the drop saying, “Inflation has outrun our ability to keep up with it.” He said Davidson’s problems are part of a nationwide trend in which “most colleges and universities just haven’t had the resources to keep salaries and wages up with the cost of living.” The oversupply of prospective (See Salaries, page 11).

William Styron, author of *Sophie’s Choice*, discussed his works on Wednesday night in Love. 

When Hutchinson moved to awake her roommate, the prowler darted away. After going outside without seeing anyone, Hutchinson and senior Bunny Horine used the emergency phone to report the incident. According to Police Chief R. H. Mills, town dispatcher Paul Martin received the call at 1:40 am and promptly notified Car 11 of Campus Security. Griffin, after getting the call, first investigated the area around Cannon. Explained Sergeant Harold Cook of Campus Police, “When we get a prowler call, we usually look outside before we go to the rooms.” Griffin and another officer then went in to talk to Hutchinson and Horine around 2 am, twenty minutes after the initial call. Hutchinson described the prowler.

“A few minutes later, as I was checking around all of the women’s dorms, I noticed someone looking into a basement window of Richardson,” Griffin said. He watched the man for a few minutes. “When he heard my police radio click, he took off and I grabbed him.” Hutchinson and Horine said they were glad Witte was caught, but were afraid that he could come back anytime. “It bothers me that he is still running around out there,” said Hutchinson. “He could easily have crawled in a window.” Witte is now out on bail. (See Arrest, page 2).