10—The Davidsonian—November 30, 1979

Wrestlers start with new coach

By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

The Davidson wrestling team opens its season under first-year head coach Bob Estock in the Catawba tournament Friday and Saturday.
The grapplers will be led by co-captains Mike Garfinkel, a senior wrestling at 158 lbs., and Rob King, a senior
in the heavyweight division. Also returning from last year’s team are Scott Smith, a sophomore at 134 lbs., and Pat
McKenzie, a junior weighing in at 126 lbs.

Coach Estock comes to Davidson from a stint as head coach at the Coast Guard Academy, where he led their
matmen to a Division III national title. About this year, he says, “There are not many guys out for wrestling,
but those we have are definitely willing to pay the price. I’m really looking forward to the season.”

Fuzzbombs invaded the library over Thanksgiving break

(Michael Kehs)

Band B&BB list top basketball players; tell truth about women’s IMAC

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

B&BB is off and running into another exhilarating IMAC season. Now Women’s IMAC basketball takes over the headlines from flickerball,
and as has been the custom B&BB are ready with the first and second team Davidson All-IMACers.

G—Minor Sinclair, 6-1, 185, Auburn, Alabama. Despite being overweight, this guard can run and shoot with the best of them.
He’ll be leading the perennial Hurtin 4 Certin juggernaut into contention this year.

G—Locke White, 6-0, 185, Podunksville, U.S.A. Perhaps the greatest thing to hit IMAC since marjoune. Can do it all from
the backcourt position. Locke could lead the SAE’s back to the title game which they missed out on last year
because they blew it.

G—Eddie Biedenbach, 6-2, 175, N.C. State. Eddie will have to use all of his finely-bred dirty tricks to pull out
a championship for the undersized Old Men. He remains a top-flight basketball player despite being in the geriatric set.

F—James McLain, 6-3, 215, somewhere down South. Probably the best rebounder in IMAC. No one got in his way last
year when he led the Cool Breeze to an IMAC championship. He can hit from outside when he gets hot.

F—Andy McDonald, 6-2, 175, Elkin, N.C. One of the smoothest players in IMAC. Andy was an integral part of the
SAE championship team of two years back. Andy can shoot, rebound, and dunk.

Sorry folks, no center.

Second Team

G—Alvin Atkinson, 6-0, 190, X-ville, Georgia. One of the toughest players on last year's championship team. Alvin can shoot from
outside and move ‘em out inside. He can be a real force when he gets good blocking.

G—Roger Hodge, 6-0, 170, Hellifiknow. One of the most aggressive players in IMAC. A real hustler, who also shoots well.
No one seems to know who he’s playing for, and we don’t either.

C—Vince Parker, 6-4, 180, Our Nation’s Capital. Vince is a good man inside who could be a force with his
shot-blocking ability. Don’t be fooled, he’s a helluva lot better at basketball than flickerball, which Hurtin 4 Certin can take
heart in.

C—Danny Hock, 6-5, 190, Winter Park, Fla. Probably the toughest center in IMAC. He’s also a good outside shooter. Danny
is an integral cog in the SAE basketball machine.

F—Rand Malone, 6-3, 185, Walla Walla, Wash. When he’s hot, he’s one of the best. But Rand makes up for
his lack of consistency with the number of shots he takes. Actually, Rand is a good rebounder and an offensive
threat who makes his team a contender.

Two freshmen to watch are “Stork” McDonald and Mike Goode. Both could be in our top two teams, but we
didn’t put them there so they aren’t. We don’t have a listing of the teams so we can’t make a
top ten. But we do know that we won’t be writing much of anything about Women’s IMAC. There, we said
it! You can’t say we’re not honest.

In flickerball last week, the SAB’s took the KA’s from out of the loser’s bracket 20-14 and 24-13 in the
championship. Kevin Wheelock got the Chevrolet offensive player of the game award for straggling out of bed and onto the
field. Chris “Coy Bacon” Daniels recorded four crunching sacks on Hill.

CONSTRUCTION

A few quick awards for the flickerball season:

MVP: Jim Richards—Who else but the living legend of flickerball himself?

Most Underrated Player: Richard Terry—He’s really very good, believe it or not.

Rookie of the Year: Mark E.C. Shogry

Best columnists: None other than the immortal B&BB.

Most surprising team: None—B&BB are all-knowing and had everyone pegged from the beginning.

Oldest player: John D. Kelton—any arguments here?

MIP (Most Intelligent Player): Joby.

Last but not least we want to remind all our voters to get their top ten basketball ballots in before
the November 28 deadline. Remember, it’s Box 6, Davidson, N.C. Get off and show your prestidigitation. Later.

906 North Main Street, Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115
