‘used in last May’s tenure decision bind the “Administration’s lack of explanation for the decisions. They will support revision of
the present procedures of faculty evaluation, increased student involvement in the process of faculty evaluation, the tenure procedure, and any
reconsideration of the tenure decisions.

Ahsheles also said that the group of students wanted to know if Sociology Professor Norman Koller’s situation had been properly
represented to the board of trustees and if the Trustees had read Koller’s letter of protest.

(Continued from page 1)
were organized to form the “affinity groups.”

The protest at Barnwell was only one of several similar protests against nuclear power last weekend all over the country.
Sophomore Tim Dwight, one of the students attending the demonstrations, said the weekend protest was the culmination of six months
of planned demonstrations.

Marynowski described the series of events over the weekend as relaxed, calm, and very orderly. The students camped at the
base for the protest, a rented lot about five miles west of Barnwell.

On Monday, special groups trained in non-violent protests climbed over the fences surrounding all three nuclear power installations. There, they
waited to be arrested.

The fair Saturday had anti-nuclear exhibits and displays of alternative energy sources. Along with the colorful tents for the exhibits,
there was a big-top tent for rallies and speakers.

Clarification

The September 28 article concerning the upcoming referendum on NC-PIRG should have indicated that PIRG contributions dropped from $4000 to
$200.

— Albatross —

(Continued from page 1)
Most will be written by Assistant Editors Dave Banks and John Siman, Jones said.

Jones said The Albatross is to print 500 copies to be sold at $1 apiece. Jones said, “We’ve gotten enough
ads to cover a large portion of production costs.”

Contributors will be paid $25 for short stories, $10 for poems, and $5 for art and photography. Satire contributors will
be unpaid. Jones said that the 48

— Barnwell —

Rock singer Graham Nash performed at Saturday’s activities. There was a prayer service Sunday before the march to the nuclear
sites began. Twelve hundred to 2000 people marched for four hours to the gates of all three nuclear installations. The
protestors did not cross any fences Sunday but made demands over bull-horns that the nuclear sites be closed down. Marynowski
said most of the natives of the area did not approve of the protestors. “They (the residents) called everyone hippies,”
she said. “They said (the protestors) were people who didn’t have anything better to do.”

Review Board letter delayed

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor
The Review Board has yet to submit its promised letter explaining the reasons behind its ruling in a recent controversial
Honor Code violation.

Last Spring, the board changed a prominent student athlete’s suspension from school from fall to winter term. The decision allowed
the athlete to participate in his sport this fall.

Board Chairman Merlyn Schuh said September 19 that the letter would be ready last week. He said that his busy
schedule and the delicacy of the matter delayed the letter’s publication.

Schuh, a chemistry professor, said that he completed a would-be final draft Wednesday, but that other Board members asked for
revisions. Schuh would not predict when the letter would finally be released.

“We want to do it right and be sure that it’s legally responsible,” Schuh said. He added, “It’s very difficult
for us to know what we can write (due to the secrecy provisions of the Honor Code), and what we
can write constructively.”

Schuh said that the letter will attempt to give the Review Board’s reasons for its decision to postpone the sentence.
He stressed that the letter will not contain the specifics of the case, including the athlete’s name.

Circus!

FORTY TONS OF ELEPHANTS

With enough power to propel a locomotive appears in the 1979 edition of the Stebbing Royal European Circus, coming to
Davidson for one day only, Friday, October 12th under the auspices of the Davidson College Union. Two shows at 5
and 8 pm. Tickets on sale now at the Union Box Office. Tickets $2.25 for children under 12; $3.25 for
adults; $9.00 for a family of five. Join us for students;

Though the students will ask most of the questions, Maydole said he has the following questions: 1) What were the
pre-tenure evaluation procedures, if any? 2) Why the lack of explanation or reasons for the negative decisions? 3) What role
did future staffing and enrollment levels play in the tenure decisions? 4) How are the procedures and decisions regarding tenure
currently affecting faculty morale?

The Board of Trustees will meet Thursday morning through Friday afternoon. According to Assistant to the President John Cunningham, this
is one of three regular meetings of the full board this year.

The planned itinerary includes a review of plans for the Commons, discussion of new dormitory locations, discussion of progress towards
the goals of the 1987 Program, and discussion of financing of dorms and housing.

PAINTINGS

ANIMAL GESTURE by EMILY ABBOTT

Best Food East of Tulsa
—italian, pizza Mon-Wed 11-2:30 5-8:00
—hoagies Thurs-Sat 11-2:30 5-12
—homemade Quiche Sunday 5-10
—American & Import beer
—Ingle nook Wines

Happy Hour & A Half Every Thursday & Friday Night 8:30-10:00

892-8686

HAPPY HOMECOMING DAVIDSON

Come to John Mack's for your fall attire and all your clothing needs.

Women’s wear, too!
