. The swim team and the girls’ tennis team are two of the most successful sports on the Davidson College campus, and one lady is responsible for them both—Pat Miller. The tennis team is currently participating in a regional meet at William and Mary against some of the nation’s elite after dominating the North Carolina tournament a couple of weeks ago; the swim team finished second in the conference and won five individual titles this year. Miller was coach of the year for her swim team this past winter, and she may be coach of the year for her tennis team if things go right this week. Around Davidson, she’s “Coach of the Year” period. Coach Miller is a native of Greenville, S.C. and attended the University of South Carolina where she majored in health.

Bad Bernard to Retire
By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

Bad Bernard to retire. That is right children, you read it right here on this page and no place else. Now wipe up them tears and blow your nose as the events leading to this decision are unfolded: Many people believe that Bad Bernard is leaving due to graduation, but reliable sources have verified that this cannot be true. Sterling Martin, the Napoleon of the IMAC world, informed Bernie that he would not graduate because he has not fulfilled the sports requirements as set forth in the Student Graduation Handbook 106, Section 3, page 139. Bernard was dumbfounded upon learning that he still had two team sports and three individual sports requirements to pass. The only comment that he could muster at the time was, “If a solution of iodine in benzene is cooled, the red color deepens, while if it is warmed, the color approaches the violet of iodine vapor, indicating that the solvency decreases with rising temperature as would be expected.” Thank you, Bad Bernard.

The real reason that Bad Bernard is leaving is that he is just too damn old. Those years running around campus sniffing mind in a state of disorder and the simple highs of life no longer please him. For instance, in search of a buzz the other day Nard gave a pint of blood and cleaning solution and passed out on the floor of his room. His sex life had declined to a point where he no longer is able a few days. One reason may be that there is nothing left to quit. So he has decided to quit the USC campus, but before she had graduated she had decided to teach health education. She explained that she is in coaching now because of an accident, “I wanted to teach health education, but this was ‘sex’ education and no one wanted a single woman for that job.” As a result, she ended up coaching the USC swim team. During the 1972-73 school year, she had the swimming and tennis coaching jobs at Potsdam State in New York. Thomas Cartmill knew about her work at Potsdam and offered her the job at Davidson. Miller didn’t find things to her liking when she arrived in 1973. The girl’s tennis team was anything but outstanding, and the swim team was so bad that retire (at last) nothing by giving up his position on The Davidsonian staff. It can only be speculated as to where the future will find Bad Bernard. Some say that he will return to Brooklyn to live the respectable life of selling hard drugs to second-grade children. Others say that he will find a job at the snack bar or possibly at the M and M where he could bitch from behind the counter. Nomatter where he goes, he will continue to be a failure, but will remain loved in the hearts of the masses. Now a moment of silence for Bad Bernard. Amen.

The playoffs in softball and volleyball have been going on this week, but as usual, we will not be able to give the final results and still get our column in only one day late. KA and Bone have advanced to the winner’s bracket finals in the quest for the softball championship. KA, led by the strong pitching of Mouse Sellars, defeated their fraternal brothers, Roots, by a score of 7-3. The Southerners then sent Captain Cohab back to their freshmen dorm by a score that was not posted. Bone defeated Su Madre 14-13 in a game that was decided in the bottom of the last inning. Bone trailed midway through the battle, but a five-run sixth inning put the crush on Su Madre. Next, Bone defeated Return of Slack 5-4, lost a tough one to McFleet 9-8, and were eliminated from the action. McFleet advanced to the finals of the loser’s bracket with a 14-0 victory over the Sprouts in which Bill McKinley yanked one over the left field fence. Slack remained in the picture with a 12-11 win over King Wallow, but the poster over in the gym was so confusing that we couldn’t tell what their actual status was.

If you wish to know some more softball scores, then go over to the gym and find out or dial 411 for information. I don’t know. Pearimobile, hang in there. Bead Later. Much.

It was close to losing its intercollegiate status. Since that time, both sports have been on their way up, and this year is a prime illustration of Miller’s success. “I wanted to build a closeness and a pride in being good that wasn’t here beforehand. I don’t want to be associated with a loser, and you wouldn’t believe how badly we could lose when I first got here,” Miller said. She pointed to student apathy and a lack of a goal as being major problems back in her early Davidson experience. Miller explained, “I have had to make gradual demands on the players. The swimmers that I had my first year wouldn’t make the team now. We didn’t have much practice time because I wouldn’t have had a team at all if I had made them practice as much as they needed.”

This is one of the techniques that Miller has used to build her winners, but she has others, too. “A coach has to schedule realistically and make the sport fun,” she said.

---

Friday, May 11
Love Auditorium
8:00 & 10:30
$1.50 or season pass

And next Saturday, May 19, there will be a Surprise Movie for 25¢ or season pass in Love.

---

WILDCATS, LEAVE A LITTLE OF YOURSELF BEHIND THIS SUMMER

It’s simple. Just call, write, or come by the bank and request a wildcat vacation account. When you take off for the summer, leave $1 or more in your account and it will be ready for use again in September. Just give us a call and we will take your account off vacation when you return. Your personalized checks will still be good and best of all, NO SERVICE CHARGE while your account is on “vacation.” Of course, if you plan on using your checking account this summer, you won't need a vacation account. At PIEDMONT BANK, we do more for our customers because “WE CARE.”

PIEDMONT BANK & TRUST COMPANY