| 12—The Davidsonian—March 30, 1979

‘If Davidson were unionized, what would it mean?

By MARK HESS - Asst. Executive Editor

On Tuesday, March 22, the faculty at Sooper in Concord requested representation. The request was made to the National Labor Relations Board, and the National Education Association (NEA) has been involved.

In Boston, on March 21, Boston University officials and a faculty union reached an agreement on contract difficulties that averted a two-day warning strike planned by the union. The attempt at unionization there is a first for a major private institution. These and other cases have opened questions of legality concerning faculty unions at independent universities. Officials at Boston University have petitioned the Supreme Court over a recent decision by a Massachusetts lower court that ruled representation by a union at a private institution illegal. That case, involving Yeshiva College, is also pending in the Supreme Court.

Boston University Assistant to the President John Westling denied that the new Labor Relations Act (LRA) applied to independent colleges and universities, claiming “faculty positions should be considered as managerial and thus not eligible for representation by unions under the LRA.” The contract proposal first given to the faculty at Boston was what he termed “an object lesson” in the fact of this law. It contained clauses that called for the staff to give up any voice in peer review, department chairman selection, and even course content and textbook selection. He made it clear, however, that the administration in no way intended to go that far.

The problem at Boston centers on the institution’s dependence on tuition as the main source of income, its endowment being less than $1,800 per student. The administration there is concerned over tuition hikes, fearing they would bring lower enrollment. Their argument to the faculty cited any gains from salary increases as being short term if enrollment dropped, since the result would be pay cuts or, more likely, loss of a job for a portion of the staff.

The professors, however, do have a strong case. In a recent report, Time magazine listed them as the profession most hurt by inflation. Indeed, professors here at Davidson have seen their mean constant dollar salary drop some 15.2 percent since 1966. A bus driver in Charlotte can make as much as an assistant professor at Davidson.

Davidson, however, does not have the same problem as Boston. Its endowment per student does not make tuition dependent. Many professors are concerned over just how this money is spent. They also have asked the Trustees for a 10 percent increase in pay, a figure that will just match present inflation rates. Dr. McKelway, president of Davidson College's chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), commented that the faculty at this time would not be ready for a measure as drastic as unionization. He emphasized, however, that the current situation cannot be allowed to grow worse.

Scout helps recycle glass

Boy Scout James Pittard is sponsoring...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A community-wide glass recycling operation as the final step for his Eagle Scout award. Saturday, April 7 has been designated as the date of the drive. Townspeople are urged to bring all their disposable glass containers to a collection site behind Blakely Organ Co. on Depot St. from 9:00 a.m. until 4:00 p.m. The APO service fraternity and Troop 58 are helping Pittard in the effort.

The Back Page

On Campus

Thursday, March 29
10:00 Disco 900 Room

Friday, March 30
1:30 Bluegrass and Ice Cream Belk Quad
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film: "Nicholas and Alexandra" (PG) Love
8:15 Kristina Bryan, violinist Hodson Hall
9:30 & 11:00 Phoebe and Roslyn 900 Room

Saturday, March 31
9:30 & 11:00 Phoebe and Roslyn 900 Room

Sunday, April 1
8:00 Davidson Christian Fellowship 900 Room

Monday, April 2
10:00 am Max Wartofsky, Technology: Freedom or Domination? 900 Room
8:00 pm Max Wartofsky: Rights, Risks and Responsibilities 900 Room

Tuesday, April 3
7:00 Worship Service DCPC

Thursday, April 5
10:00 Coffee & Cokes Gallery

Classical Music

If you have grown weary of beer parties, discos, and the like, the Davidson College Music Department offers a refreshing departure Friday night at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Kristina Bryan, concert master of the Charlotte Symphony, and Paul Nitsch, piano instructor at Queens College, will perform three sonatas for violin and piano by Mozart, Ravel, and Brahms. The program, which is separate from the Chamber Music Series, is free and open to the public.

Bryan studied at the Peabody Conservatory and the New School of Music. She has performed as first violinist in several music groups and participated last summer in master classes with Aaron Rosand. Paul Nitsch holds both bachelor’s and master’s music degrees from the Peabody Conservatory and studied in Vienna on a Fulbright scholarship. He has also participated in the Interlochen Music Camp and appeared as guest artist with the Charlotte Symphony.

Bryan commented that although she tried to select the pieces simply on the basis of what she likes to play, the program turned out to be well balanced anyway. The Brahms is "one of the grand works done in recitals," said Bryan, "a real audience pleaser."

Phoebe and Roslyn

Phoebe and Roslyn, two singers from UNC-Charlotte, will be performing in the 900 Room this weekend. They will be accompanied by a pianist and a bass guitarist. Phoebe and Roslyn are "very good." There will be four shows, Friday and Saturday nights at 9:30 and 11:00. No admission charge.

Friday, March 30
2:00 Tennis: Washington and Lee Davidson
2:00 Tennis: UNC-Charlotte Davidson

Saturday, March 31
1:00 Tennis: Citadel Davidson
1:00 Baseball: Appalachian Boone
Track: Atlantic Coast Relays Raleigh

Monday, April 2
Golf: Elon Invitational Elon College
2:00 Tennis: Centre College Davidson
2:00 Women's Tennis: High Point Davidson
3:00 Baseball: Duke Durham

Tuesday, April 3
2:00 Tennis: Randolph-Macon Davidson
3:00 Women's Tennis: Appalachian Away
3:00 Baseball: Wake Forest Winston-Salem

Wednesday, April 4
3:00 Baseball: Wingate Wingate

Thursday, April 5
3:00 Women's Tennis: Pfeiffer Davidson