November 30, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Davidson meets Wofford to start the basketball season Saturday night at 7:30 in Johnston Gym. The Cats have a lot of experience returning to this year’s squad, and they’re ready for action. Davidson travels to Lexington, Va., Monday night to play VMI before playing in the First Union Invitational at the Coliseum December 7-8.

The Davidson College basketball guide for 1979-80 does a fine job of publicity when it mentions “Davidson’s incredible climb to top 20 rank in nine of the past 16 years.” The fact that the last of those top 20 seasons came in 1969-70 is all the more reason for even Davidson’s basketball hopefuls to look with reserved optimism on Coach Eddie Biedenbach’s second season at the Wildcat helm.

What will be success for this year’s squad? Regardless of any optimism, the answer will more than likely not be another top 20 year. Success as Coach Biedenbach sees it is “doing what we do well and doing the best we can do.” He admits the best may not be a winning season, but he believes an improvement over last year’s 8-19 won-lost record is a definite possibility. “I'm hoping we win this year,” he said, “but I'm building a whole long-term program. For lack of a better explanation, I'll say we're in a rebuilding year; we're building a program not concerned with an individual win or record but concerned with a program to match the great educational institution which Davidson is. Alumni, faculty, administration, students, and the athletic staff are all a part of the program.”

But the immediate success of Davidson basketball rests on the 14 guys on the team along with Biedenbach and his three assistants, Marv Kessler, Jeff Bzdelik, and Rick Barnes. Bzdelik and Barnes are both in their second years with the Cats while Kessler is a newcomer with impressive credentials. He was head coach at Martin Van Buren High School in Queens, N.Y., with a 146-36 record. Later, he was head coach at Adelphi University where he also compiled a winning percentage. He played on the college level at N.C. State and was a member of the 1955-56 Atlantic Coast Conference championship team.

“We’ve got to play our best every night.” While the possibility of a top ranking may be slim, the Cats have set the goal high. That goal is winning the Southern Conference championship and earning a spot in the NCAA regionals. Biedenbach sees Furman, Appalachian, East Tennessee, and others as strong competitors.and Marshall as the most formidable opponents in the conference. Outside the conference, the schedule includes Pennsylvania, N.C. State, South Carolina, and UNC-Charlotte in the Coliseum, and Wake Forest, St. John’s, and Notre Dame in road games. “With our schedule,” Biedenbach said, “we could win by 20 points one night and lose by 20 the next with a better effort. We'll be underdogs in half of our games.”

A tough schedule is not the only obvious obstacle to a winning season. John Gerdy graduated, and with him goes the high scorer in 21 of last season’s games and an average of 26.7 points per game. In addition, Biedenbach says the team this year will be guarded better because the defenses won't be keying on Gerdy; thus the Cats will have to shoot better. But Biedenbach has more to say about this year’s non-Gerdy team: “Each team has a new complexion. Obviously, we'll miss Gerdy, but with small improvement in every area we should be a better basketball team.”

He continued, “Last year, our guys had Gerdy and gave up the advantage of some shots they didn’t recognize. We'll get a better team effort without Gerdy because of our maturity and the talent of the incoming freshmen.” Davidson does return five “starters” to the squad including sophomores Rich DiBenedetto who missed last year, Jamie Hall, and Brian Rowan. Todd Haynes, the only junior on the team, is back along with senior Ernie Reigel.

Biedenbach cited eight players who have “contributed for starting positions.” The top six are DiBenedetto, Hall, Rowan, Haynes, freshman John Carroll, and Reigel. The next two vying for positions are junior Mike Tribus and senior Rich Perkey. The next two rounding out the “top 10” according to Biedenbach are sophomore Greg Berlacher and freshman Rich Wilson. This is a large group to be considering for starting spots, but Biedenbach likes the depth. “I believe we have eight or nine stronger players than we had last year,” he said. “The key will be getting the most out of them and getting them to complement each other.” He feels the Cats’ objective is teamwork both on offense and defense.

DiBenedetto and Hall, along with Rowan and Haynes, will be strong rebounders, and Biedenbach cites the team's free throw shooting as a definite asset. Last year the Cats hit over 76 percent from the line. Field goal shooting should see improvement “from good to very good.” He continued, “Our team-oriented offense should improve our overall percentage from the floor.”

Definitely, the emphasis for Biedenbach and his staff this season will be a team effort with many players contributing. Biedenbach has been pleased with the effort so far during practice because the team is “realizing what it takes to win and play together.” Winning is certainly a goal for the Wildcats, and with dedication and a team effort in every game, the 1979-80 season may be an important step in Biedenbach’s program.