October 19, 1979—The Davideonian—3

THE VILLAGE STORE
Pane By Mae Ohne

Do you ever get tired of spending your Saturday afternoons watching uniformed athletes play hot potato with a pigskin and
pattycake with their heads? Ever have this overwhelming urge to don an outrageous costume and display your own athletic prowess?
Well, this Saturday the D.C. Riding Program is giving you the chance to satisfy such urges, and here’s the kicker:
your performance will take place atop a galloping steed and will be videotaped for posterity (and a good laugh).

The First Annual Gymkhana and Hayride is a great chance for all you equestrians and closet athletes to come out
and exhibit your talents in public. For us non-equestrian types, the best part will be the hayride.

WE'D LIKE YOU TO MEET THE MEMBERS OF OUR STUDENT ADVISORY BOARD

Diana Pierce ‘81, Mike Mittelman - Loan Officer, Don Howie - Davidson Branch Manager, Burkley Mann ‘80, John Jackson, Stuart
Dorsett ‘82, and Richard Terry ‘81.

Coercion lessens in a Mndi eases the students, and Piedmont Bank and they're ready and willing to answer financial questions
such as the following:

“How can a bank help students establish credit and why is it important to do so before graduation?”
“A savings account, checking account and/or Master Charge card properly handled are all methods by which credit can be established.
By managing any one of these accounts responsibly, an individual shows that he or she can handle financial matters. A
credit rating is important when someone wants to rent an apartment, buy a car on credit, or even have a
phone installed. Because future creditors will look at past financial records, it is important to act responsibly now and begin
to establish credit.”
Piedmont Bank is the only area bank where, as a student customer, you're entitled to a Master Charge card.

If you would like some more information on this particular question or if you have other financial questions, please talk
with one of our Student Advisory Board members.

PIEDMONT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
MEMBER F.D.I.C.

Hayride for non-riders
Gymkhana throws down the gauntlet to equestrians

It begins behind Belk at 12:30. For you “gutless wimps and nerds,” who disdain such pastoral activities, there will be
cars leaving (also from behind Belk) at 1:15.

Upon your arrival, ringmasters Mark Duckett and Trisha Haynes will comment on and coordinate such varied events as: Barrel Racing
(“No, not on horse—on a barrel. Penalties are only for feet touching the ground. Anything else goes.”), a Costume Contest
(“Wearing whatever concoction you feel is most becoming, climb onto a horse and parade around. You will be judged by
your peers with no identifiable criterion.”), and an Obstacle Course (“Steer your steed mounted and unmounted, through, over, around, and
into menacing terrain in the ring; fastest time wins. Will make or break your relationship with the animal...”)

Also included are such nutritional treats as the Carrot Bite and The Apple Bob Relay, and more.

Entry fees are 25 cents per event, and the events are loosely divided into three categories: the “People-who've-seldom/never-been-on-a-horse,” “People-who've-ridden-some-but-aren’t-at-home-in-the-saddle,” and
“People-who-think-they’re-pretty-tough” divisions. As you will undoubtedly fit at least one of the above, you can pick up an entry form
at the Union, Chambers, or the Post Office; faculty participation is especially invited. For further information call Virginia Dummit at
6142.

Ghie Copeland House Gallery now showing PAINTINGS by EMILY ABBOTT
Art - Office - School Supplies
Custom Framing
305 N. MAIN ST.
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
(704) 892-3005
