By MIKE MASON
Staff Writer

Editor's note: No freshman experience can be called "typical," and Mike Mason does not pretend that his is representative. But because freshman year is something new and different, we present one angle. We also welcome any additional viewpoints.

My first day at Davidson, I discovered that my room was already occupied. By ants. By lots of ants. And not just ordinary ants, either, but ants who revel in a hedonistic orgy of crumb discovery day and night.

Not only that, but they insist on crawling in my stereo to get high whenever I turn up the volume. After a few minutes, they come stumbling and staggering out of the headphones hole, apparently good for another 24 hours.

"But of what importance are ants," you upperclass-types ask, as you inwardly roll your eyes in contemplation of the freshman psyche. Well, consider this, then: because of the advent of the class of 1983, you all now hold a captive audience of some 400 souls who have never heard your immeasurably corny repertoire of Will Terry jokes.

So let’s have a little respect for the intrinsic value of the average freshman, alright?

Personal account

But back to the issue at hand. The ants are but one aspect of a blurred montage of sights and sounds that include other notable occurrences, such as the registration deskman who referred to me as an “earthworm” when he discovered my room was in the basement.

Then, there is my ever rustic mother, near hysteria, “You mean the showers don’t have curtains!” Oh well, so much for the break from parental ties.

After over a week of veteran experience, however, one thing stands out more than anything else. You see, college is the great mythic panacea—if you’ve got a problem, college cures it with immense dosages of maturity.

After all, college is the perfect environment, and by the time you get to Davidson, your Clearasil should’ve joined the ranks of your teddy bear and glow-in-the-dark bedspread.

But not so, buckos! I have swiftly discovered that I am who I always was—and what’s more, I like it that way. I wasn’t looking forward to being remodeled and fitted with various options, anyhow.

Having only been here a week, I’ve sounded no deeper intellectual levels than the above, which you may do with as you please (might I suggest swatting ants?). And if anyone has a can of Raid, let me know.

Freshmen feedback

Orientation seemed so structured. I was glad when classes started and I could have more time to goof around.

The workload is a lot more than I expected. I really lived it up during orientation and so when classes started I was a little stunned.

The view from the top

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

Everything ran really smoothly this year, much more than the other years I've participated,” said John Willingham. “Many activities were shortened, and the staggering of meetings and meal times prevented long lines.”

“I was excited to hear parents comment on how confident they felt about Davidson after participating in the orientation weekend,” commented Anne Eglin. “It is a good experience for the parents.”

Intense competition is typical of Davidson life, but this time the rewards were cakes.
Brad Kerr

1979 Cake Race results
43rd annual competition

MEN:
1. Michael A. Goode 8:47
2. Jack Smith
3. Garey Sullivan
Record (1977) - J. Davis 8:25

WOMEN:
1. Devon Geisz 11:34
2. Menis Hollingsworth 11:46
3. Marian Hill 12:04
Record (1977) - N. Wright 11:21

Who would dare to throw Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman into Lake Norman? Naive and audacious freshmen participating in last weekend’s Freshman Regatta!

The culprits were Zimmerman’s advisees (and hopefully still are). Dean of Students Terry also took a surprise swim.

The Regatta marked the end of freshman orientation week. The winner of the regatta in the men’s division was first floor west Belk. In the women’s division, first Sinner took top honors.

Basement Richardson and third Belk center east tied for the highest score in the “people hunt,” the first fun activity after innumerable, informative sessions.

The orientation weekend involved a total of 128 females and 270 males.