**The Davidsonian — February 9, 1979**

Today we are gonna take a walk through our college campus: Colaba Rides “Dan ‘xen "way.” Sure you can. Now isn’t it a wonderful day!

Do you notice all the wooden stakes that are driven in the ground? Sure you do. There are some over there. These stakes have been placed there by the little men who work for the college. The purpose of the stakes is to trip students who try to run on the grass.

See over there, a young freshman has just implanted his face in the soil after making contact with the little wooden peg. You must realize that these stakes were not just driven into the campus earth in a haphazard fashion, but the men who placed them there looked through baby telescopes to determine the most strategic locations.

Did you see those bushes by the walkway in front of the dorms? Sure you did. But please do not stare at them, for they have had their photosynthetic heads shaved by the men who work for the college campus. Now these poor monocotyledons stand naked in the cruel winter mornings, afternoons, and nights. And for what reason? Did you ask yourself for what reason? Sure you did. And now we will tell you as we continue our walk through the college campus.

Hey, did you see that leaf fall to the ground? Well, I guess you missed it. What happened was that a small leaf from that tree over there (you know, the tree in front of the Fine Arts Building with the distinguished masculine look) fell to the ground and was picked up instantaneously by one of the little men who work for the college campus.

If you will look closely, then you will see this occurring time and time again. But, you will never see a leaf on the floor of the college campus unless it is in a pile with other leaves and placed there by the little men who work for the college campus.

Well, boys and girls, we sure did enjoy our little walk. But, we are really becoming bored by all this crap, and our Bic is about to run dry. So, rendereth unto the IMAC report.

This week’s IMAC report centers on basketball (not babies, Tom-TSEB-s.). Most of the games were played in Johnston Gym. In a recent game, Under defeated the Panama Reds 55-23. This was only the second time this year that the Reds had scored over twelve points, and team members verified that it was due to an inadequate pre-game. When asked about the victory, midget Percy Badham responded, “Roll Tide!”

This year’s most improved B-league team, the Toads, led by Terry Wade, Steve Shelby, Jim Cheek, Gary Sims, Mike Landen, Jonathon West, Bryan Duke, Paul Flood, Hal Stringer, Lance Sisco, and a few substitutes, whomped I Delta Key 67-23. Go Toads!

In the female league, the M&M’s broke a three-year losing streak in all sports by socking the BOPS 21-16. The M&M girls were really excited about winning.

This exciting IMAC basketball picture is put here to complement the article above it. Who are these people, anyway?

Randy Haynes wanted his name in this week’s column. He is the B-League hatchetman. Stuart Jordan hurt his ankle. Ricky Dominick hurt his ankle, too, but he says that he is doing fine.

Other scores were 82, 38, 42, 32, 62, and 58. The teams were Big Daddy Conosco, Ain’t She It, Ragmen, Baby Boas, SAE, and McFunk and Dunk respectively.

And now for the BB&B Top Ten:

1. SAE
2. Bye
3. Excitable Boys
4. Old Men
5. Wagon Ho
6. Cool Breeze
7. Bone Crushers
8. The Hole
9. Hurtin for Certain
10. Surrogate Mothers

So's your Mother... The pizza made famous by Davidson’s own.

In the warm homey atmosphere, allow us to treat you to delicious food including warm bagels, salads, your design of pizza, sandwiches, and Black Forest cheesecake. We also serve beer and wine. Take a break today and really enjoy it.

We're open:
Monday-Wednesday 11:00-2:30, 5:00-8:00
Thursday-Saturday 11:00-2:30, 5:00-12:00
Sunday 12:00-3:00, 5:00-10:00

THE PEREGRINE HOUSE
phone 892-8686

If you're starting to look at life after college, try our “basic” outlook. Apply for the special Two-Year Army ROTC Program during your sophomore year. Attend a six-week Basic Camp this summer and earn $500. It's tough. But the people who can manage it are the people we want to serve as officers in the active Army or Reserves. Do well at Basic and you can qualify for the Army ROTC Advanced Program in the fall. You'll earn $100 a month for 20 months your last two years in college. And the opportunity for a two-year full tuition scholarship. You'll also receive the extra credentials that will distinguish you in whatever career you may choose. Try our “basic” outlook on life.

Major Van Collins
Belk Basement
892-2000 ext. 170