New director of South Asian Studies will also emphasize China and Japan

Notes on Students

Philadelphia Urban Semester

During the winter term, nine Davidson students are on the Philadelphia Urban Semester. The purpose of the experiential program is
“to investigate a city as a system of human interaction” and to blend theory and experience. All students will participate
in the city seminar, field experience, and one of the many urban studies seminars in art, communications, education, political and
social issues, and research or social work.

The students studying in Philadelphia are: William Coward, Virginia Dummit, Merideth Durden, Linda Dusenbury, Patricia Haynes, Joyce Hoffman, Carole Loftin,
Will Long, and Laura Michael.

North Carolina Fellows

Selections for the North Carolina Fellows Program were made this weekend. From approximately eighty initial applicants, ten freshmen were chosen
as members of the North Carolina Fellows Class of 1982. John Hay Chung, Michael Edward Cooper, Robert Crawford Ervin, Daniel
Ettedgui, Samuel Clyde Fullerton, Richard Lee Gergoudis, Donna Jean Iles, Diane Kay Odom, James Leslie Troutman, and Craig Justice White
were named North Carolina Fellows for the Class of 1982.

Ten Little Indians

By TOM BESSELLIEU
Staff Writer

“Ten little Indian boys went out to dine, One choked his little self and then there were nine.” This simple,
if slightly gruesome, verse is the humble basis for one of the world’s best-loved mystery thrillers, Agatha Christie’s Ten Little
Indians. Millions have been kept up all hours of the night reading how the residents of a desolate island off
the coast of England are secretly murdered, one by one, just like the little Indians, until... Well, if you have
read the book, you know.

Now, the suspense and thrill of Christie is proudly brought to the stage in the Davidson College Drama Department’s upcoming
Workshop Production, Ten Little Indians, directed and designed by Asst. Professor Joseph Gardner. Opening night is Thursday, January 25, at
7 pm. But if you like your mystery thrills late at night when the moon is out and the dogs
are howling on the hills, then you can come to the late-night performance at 10 pm Thursday. Friday, January 26,
will also have a 7 pm and 10 pm performance.

For those attending who have already read the novel, be prepared as Gardner has changed the ending! The play is
scheduled in the Workshop room rather than Hodson Hall, to provide a closer atmosphere, keeping you on the edge of
your proverbial seat.

The cast includes: Mrs. Rogers, played by Esther Bruce; Rogers, played by Clifton Fay; Narracott, played by Billy Taylor; Vera
Claythorne, played by Ann Burke; Philip Lombard, played by John Boswell; Anthony Marston, played by John Niblock; William Moore, played
by Jack Hall; General MacKenzie, played by Chris Conrad; Emily Brent, played by Ann Parker; Sir Lawrence Wargrave, played by
James Baskin; and Dr. Armstrong, played by Joel Shirk.

Because of limited space, there will be no reservations, either in person or by phone. There will be advanced ticket
sales on the day of each performance. Sales for Thursday’s shows will go on from 9-10:30 am at the Post
Office, during coffee and cokes in Chambers Gallery, and from 2-5 pm at the Box Office in Cunningham Fine Arts
Building. Friday will also have advanced ticket sales in the same morning and afternoon hours. All tickets, both in advance
and at the door, are $1.50.

To keep up the suspense, Gardner has asked the production cast and crew not to tell the ending, but just
between you and me, the killer is- Oh, Hi, Dr. Gardner, I was just- No! Wait! Put that gun down!

Smoking in class banned

By LINDA HOOPES
Features Editor
and GEORGE MURDAUGH
Senior Opinion Editor

The “other half” of the world will return to the spotlight this spring, as Professor Job Thomas comes to Davidson
to assume the directorship of the South Asian Studies program. Mr. Thomas is not a newcomer.to Davidson, having taught here
in 1972-73. He is presently at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, working on his doctorate, and will arrive
by the end of January to prepare for the spring term. Although he enjoys the resources of the large university,
he feels that the city is “so loud, and you are nothing but a number,” and is looking forward to
the move back to Davidson. “There is a small, comfortable, secure feeling” about a place like Davidson. He seems to
be anticipating the personal interaction with the students. Thomas still keeps in touch with some of his former students from
his year here. He also hopes to find time to pursue his interests in photography and art. Amelia, Thomas’ wife,
and his son and daughter (Vinod, 2½, and Sujata, 9) will also make the move south. The family will live,
appropriately enough, in Dr. Devon’s former house on Concord Road. Thomas’ emphasis in the South Asian Studies program will be
somewhat different from that of Dr. Tonia Devon, former director of the program. He wants to offer more exposure to
China and Japan, “striking the balance that students need.” He will begin teaching in the spring, offering two sections of
a 101 course in the civilization of India. In the fall, he will teach 101 and probably an Indian history
course through the history department. Since his specialty is Indian art, he will emphasize that aspect in his courses and
possibly teach a course in Asian art later. Professor of Religion David Kaylor, presently acting director of the program, said
he does not know the fate of the South Asian Politics course, which was Devon's specialty.

Dorm space diminishes

WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS) — You pack your bags for school, land on campus, and discover that dorm space, once assured,
is now in doubt. After waiting in limbo during registration week, you find yourself crammed into a dorm room with
two other people. The dorm space jam scenario was more common on more campuses this year than ever before, and
now the experts are projecting that the problem will persist into the foreseeable future. One reason is that colleges and
universities expect enrollment to decline through the next 10-12 years. They’re reluctant to build expensive dormitories to relieve the current
crowding because those very same new dorm rooms may be empty by the time they’re complete. Because of construction costs
and current high mortgage rates, though, the schools would still have to pay for those new rooms. But the other
major reason for the continuing shortage is rooted in federal policy, set in the sixties, that contributes federal funds for
classroom space only. The result is that some schools have employed creative means to get around the federal policy. Ithaca
College in New York, for example, ripped the living spaces out of several dorm buildings, several stories high, and converted
them into classroom space so the buildings could qualify for subsidies under government aid programs. There is, as a result,
a shortage of dorm space on the campus.

(CPS) — “We’ve been conditioned (to smoke) by society ever since we were young, by the Marlboro Man and others,”
complains Dr. Alfred Wolokowitz, a professor at Towson State University in Maryland. “And it is arbitrary to suddenly take that
right away.” The school’s Academic Council, in fact, took the right away last spring, making Towson State one of at
least seven in the country that have prohibited smoking in classrooms. Wolokowitz, though, was only one of several local professors
The Towerlight, the school’s student newspaper, found who continue to smoke during their seminars. Another was political science professor Dr.
Eric Belgrad, who told the paper he loses concentration if he doesn’t smoke during his two-and-a-half hour seminars. Wolokowitz, on
the other hand, objects to his smoking ban, saying he has to “either sit by a window or drop the
class.”
