2—The Davidsonian—February 16, 1979

Board of Trustees will consider budget at next meeting

By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

When the Board of Trustees meet at Davidson on February 22 and 23, next year’s budget will be on their
agenda. According to Chairman Warner Hall, “The winter meeting always revolves around financial matters.”

Assistant to the President Cindy McDowell, who is handling preparations for the meeting, explained that the February meeting of the
Trustees is usually when the budget is examined in depth. According to Comptroller Bob Davidson, the proposed budget was sent
last week to each member of the Trustee’s Finance and Management Committee. They are currently reviewing the proposed budget and
will present it Friday morning to the full Board. The Board will then either approve it or ask the administration
for certain adjustments. In this latter case, final approval will be postponed until the Trustee’s May meeting, according to Davidson.

The proposed budget is the culmination of three months of analysis, Davidson said. It began with funding requests from each
individual department, both academic and administrative. The Senior Staff, consisting of the heads of each administrative department, then met to
suggest cuts. The proposed budget was then returned to each department for these reductions. College President Samuel Spencer made a
final run-through and checked that it was a balanced budget.

Thursday night, the Trustees will join fifty Davidson students in a special dinner sponsored by the Student Government Association Senate,
according to SGA President Bruce Brown. Brown said any student interested in attending the dinner should sign up at the
Union Desk on a first-come, first-serve basis. The SGA Senate plans to feature two student speakers at the dinner to
discuss two issues, said Brown. The topics will be athletics and admissions, he said, although the specific points of each
topic have not yet been determined. The Senate dinner program Thursday night will be followed by a question and answer
period, Brown said.

Student opinion poll results to be released

By KAREN LONG
Circulation Manager

Student Government Association representatives will present results of a student opinion poll conducted this past week at the trustee dinner
next Thursday. SGA senators hope to make Trustees aware of currently controversial issues and of general student feeling about these
issues such as self-scheduled exams, international programs, course enrollment, faculty evaluation, and the athletic budget.

“The SGA is in contact with the Trustees all year long and we can tell them what we think, but
it has a little bit more impact, and rightly so, if at least once a year the Trustees can get
some feel for the opinion of the student body at large,” explained SGA Vice-President John Jackson. According to Jackson, the
survey last year made a sizable impression on the Trustees. He expects a similar impact this year. The survey results
will also be distributed to the Educational Policy Committee and administrators.

The questionnaire survey was drawn up by the SGA Senate and distributed to 175 students randomly selected by computer as
a representative sample. Jackson said the multiple-choice questionnaire was generally a good one, although he admitted there were some questions
which did not give enough possible choices or which were poorly worded.

News at a Glance

SGA elections to be held spring term

Elections for Student Government Association President and Vice-President will be held March 27 and elections for SGA Class Senators will
be held April 3. Students interested in running for SGA President or Vice-President must sign up in Dean of Students
Will Terry’s Office between March 13 and 20. Campaigns for these offices will begin on March 20. Those planning to
run for Class Senator must sign up in Terry’s office between March 20 and 27, and campaigns will begin March
27.will be elected from each of this year’s junior, sophomore, and freshman classes.

CAROLE LOPTSON

Sixteen finalists chosen for Stuart Scholarship

Out of the sixty-four semi-finalists in the Edward Crosland Stuart Scholarship competition who converged on Davidson last weekend, sixteen finalists
were chosen to return for final selection in March. Finalists’ names will be released this coming Monday.

ESTHER BRUCE

Clarifications

In preparing last week’s Davidsonian for press, Peggy Noel’s letter to the editor about registration problems was unintelligibly disarranged. The
following is a complete copy of the original letter:

To the Editor:

During the past three years I have heard a steadily increasing number of complaints from frustrated, disappointed students over enrollment
problems, registration, and drop-add procedures. The opportunity to present these criticisms and alternative procedures to open ears was offered to
the student body last Thursday. A committee was set up to take issue with the rumored dissatisfactions; if they take
their cue from the number of students present (14, and only 3 SGA members when the entire senate was supposed
to attend) they may well concede that there are not any problems, that everyone is happy with the way things
are, and if students complain they do not mean it seriously.

In the words of Dr. Klein, committee chairman, “we want to solve the problem, but we have to know what
the problem is.” “We are not bound to the current registration procedures, if there is a better way we can
change,” said Dr. Burts. The committee wants to help us and you know as well as I do that something
has to be done. Do we want to raise the ceilings on oversubscribed courses and sacrifice the educational advantages of
small class size? Is there cause to exert pressure on the administration to reallocate the budget so that more professors
can be hired? Are students who are dissatisfied with their schedules able to work their problems out during the drop-add
period? Do we want afternoon classes, night classes, or classes during the 10:00 hour? Is it fair for students who
don’t need their good numbers to use them to obtain courses for a friend with a bad number? These are
only a few of the questions that need to be addressed. Either you need to channel your complaints in the
right direction or stop complaining.

Peggy Noel ’79

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term,
by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper's office is on the third
floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone: 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription price: $6.00 per
year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

PARK’S REXALL DRUGS
@ complete prescription service
@ cosmetics
@ contact lens supplies
@ magazines
@ Russell Stover candies
@ toiletries
@ sewing notions
and if we don’t have it we’ll be happy to order for you

Open 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekly
9 a.m. to 11 a.m. Sundays
phone: 892-0208

NUCLEAR OFFICER. THE FASTEST WAY UP IN THE NUCLEAR NAVY.

The Navy operates more than half the reactors in America. So our training is the most comprehensive. Start by earning
your commission as a Navy officer. Then we give you a year of advanced nuclear training (with a $3,000 bonus
when you finish). During your career, you'll get practical, hands-on experience with our nuclear-powered fleet. If that sounds like the
kind of responsibility you're looking for, speak to your Navy recruiter or send your résumé to: Lt. Steve Burnette, P.O.
Box 18095, Charlotte 28205 or call him collect at 1-371-6254. Or call toll free 1-800-622-7568 and ask for Officer Programs.

IT’S NOT JUST A JOB, IT'S AN ADVENTURE.
