The women’s cross country team, paced once again by Susan Davidson, placed third in a 10-team field in a 25-mile relay this past Saturday in Greenville, S.C. Each school or club entered five runners in the five by five mile relay; the team with the lowest total time was the meet winner.

Davidson was represented by an A and B squad. The A team, led by a fine 32:01 effort by Susan Davidson, placed third in the overall meet behind the U.S.C. Running Club and the Greenville Track Club. Carie Nunn also ran well for the Cats. No team results were available for the B-team.

Although the season is basically completed for the team, Susan Davidson will compete in the regional meet to be held in Murray, Kentucky, Saturday. —VAN BECK

Field Hockey

The Lady Wildcats of the field hockey team, led by Carol Heppner and Cathy Inabnet, each of whom scored two goals, demolished Converse last Thursday 5-0. Belle Erdman added the fifth goal for the Cats.

The team followed suit Saturday with a shut-out of ECU. Inabnet scored two goals, leaving one each for Lisa Johnson and Erdman.

With these two closing wins, the Cats achieved a 7-6 season record as the team heads to the state tournament this week. Davidson is seeded fifth out of six teams, but spirit and optimism remain high. Despite an unimpressive regular season, the Wildcats feel they have played well and are by no means out of the picture for the state title.

The Deep South tournament will be held this coming weekend, but a win at state will make the team ineligible for this competition.

—ANNE HOCKETT

Women’s Soccer

Davidson's first women’s intercollegiate soccer game in history was a 4-1 trouncing of Pfeiffer last weekend. Sandy Fawcett opened the pre-season scoring action, followed quickly by Joanna Flemming, making the score 2-0.

Pfeiffer then scored its only goal just before halftime, but in the second half, Fawcett found the Pfeiffer net two more times to secure the win. The victory was the result of good team play and exceptional effort from Pam Hawkins and Marsha Coates.

The Davidson women’s soccer team is the product of much interest expressed by women in soccer and the efforts of their coach, Doug Schuessler. He said 35 women came to the organizational meeting wishing to participate in the spring soccer season, which will consist of six to eight intercollegiate games.

—DANNY ARMISTEAD

Club Football

Davidson's club football team, hindered by a lack of depth, lost to Lenoir-Rhyne Sunday afternoon 32-0. Only 15 players managed to make the trip, meaning that most players had to play both offense and defense. The lack of players has been a problem all season.

Club president Alex Driscoll praised the quality of individual play, however, including Joby Merten’s job at quarterback. Merten earlier led the squad to a 22-6 rout of Western Carolina on October 14, the team’s lone win in a 1-4 season thus far.

After taking next Sunday off, the team closes the 1979 season with a home clash against Appalachian State on Nov. 11. State, which fielded a fine team last year, may lack that powerhouse quality in 1979, Driscoll notes.

The 2:00 game, promising exciting viewing for all interested fans, will be played on the rear practice field near the cross-country course posts. —BECK BRADBERY

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1926"

984 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

Gallery

305 N. Main St.
(704) 892-

CUSTOM FRAMING

SUPPLIES:
Art — Office — School

What Do You Want From College?

Job Opportunity? Add It To Your Schedule.

College is a time of high promise and even greater expectations. You eagerly look forward to the day when you will have completed your education and are ready to get on with a career in your particular field.

However, many will not be ready.

In these highly competitive times, young people quite often find that a college education is simply not enough. An important ingredient is missing.

Employers know what it is.

They look for people trained in the human relationships of management and in the exercise of responsibility. Another name for this is leadership. Today, many companies are finding this preferred quality among men and women who are Army ROTC graduates.

The reason is basic.

ROTC classes are unique. They offer instruction and a practical, working knowledge of leadership. What you learn in Army ROTC training is directly applicable to a civilian career: the principles of personnel management, a ready acceptance of responsibility, the desire to achieve, and personal confidence.

There is a difference in the college graduate who has had the benefit of Army ROTC. That difference makes you worth more to prospective employers.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:

CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170