January 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

By DEAN EKLUND
Staff Writer

Davidson’s women’s basketball team travels to Wingate Tuesday in hopes of avenging an earlier dramatic one-point loss. During the past
week, the Cattes lost to Pembroke on Saturday and to Winthrop on Monday, 71-43. These losses dropped the Cattes’ record
to 2-9. However, Davidson is 2-2 in Division III.

Player Anna Hutchinson commented, “We lack the talent which the scholarship teams have. They have the height and the experience.”
P.J. Whitlock at 5’9” is the tallest Catte player. Sarah Womack said, “Our team as a whole has not played
together as well as we'd like. We have a lack of experience and some players have not played much in
high school. We have only three returnees from last year, so this is basically our first year playing together.” Hutchinson
replied, “But we are improving. We’re learning to work together as a team which comes from experience. The outlook is
good. Next year we'll only lose one starter. We have some good, tall prospective students, and our schedule will be
more competitive.”

The Davidson women are playing out of their division regularly because last year they signed two-year contracts with the Division
I and II schools. Therefore, after this year Davidson will be free to compose a fairer schedule. When asked whether
the morale of the team was high, Hutchinson replied, “Definitely. The team gets along real well. We’re very compatible.” Womack
noted that, “Last year there was much more tension and competitiveness for positions than this year.” The women are very
appreciative of Coach Roberts’ and Coach Mayes’ help. Hutchinson said, “Both the coaches have been very patient and understanding. They’ve
been there to encourage us.”

Hutchinson cautioned against lightly regarding the team. “We’re the kind of team that could pull off a few surprises like
the men's victory over Wake Forest, especially when it gets late in the season and we get used to each
other.”

Davidson Wildcats squeeze by Wake in a 75-72 thriller

By BRYAN KELLEHER and DAVID NEISLER
Staff Writers

In what proved to be Davidson’s first victory over an Atlantic Coast Conference team in five years, the Wildcats whipped
Wake Forest 75-72 last Monday night. The victory snapped an 11-game losing streak and made John Gerdy Night a great
success. The fans, players, and coaches relished the winning spirit and celebrated well into the night. The toilet paper in
the trees was evidence that Davidson had won a big one.

Gerdy was honored in pre-game ceremonies for being Davidson’s all-time high scorer. At first, however, it seemed to be anything
but Gerdy’s night as he hit only three of nine shots from the field in the first half. The Cats,
however, were able to stay close behind a hot-shooting Todd Haynes and an intense team effort on defense. Guy Morgan
sank two free throws with one second remaining to put the Demon Deacons ahead 34-30 at the intermission.

The second half showed why Gerdy was worthy of an appreciation night. He scored 27 points, including a 12-minute span
in which he accounted for 25 of Davidson's 27 points. The Cats surged ahead with Gerdy’s sharp-shooting and held a
50-40 lead with 10:20 to go. Wake Forest, however, came back with nine unanswered points and battled the Wildcats down
to the wire. Gerdy’s last basket came with 4:15 remaining to give the Cats a 66-61 edge. From that point
on, Davidson relied on clutch free throw shooting. Ernie Reigel, Rich Perkey, Brian Rowan, and Eric Sorensen connected on seven
of eight foul shots in the closing minutes.

Swimmers suffer year’s first loss to Old Dominion

By ROGER HODGE
Staff Correspondent

The next meet of the year for the Davidson swim team is in Charleston this Friday against the College of
Charleston.The team swims at home (UNCC pool) on February 2 versus William and Mary, and then against VMI on February
3. These are the only remaining home meets for this year. Timers are needed for both of these meets; anyone
interested should contact Coach Miller (Ext. 345). The swimmers lost to Old Dominion last Friday by a score of 62-51.
The team had a match scheduled for last Saturday, but Madison did not show up because of the weather. Miller
explained that Davidson will try to gain a forfeit because Madison should have been able to come. There has not
been any official decision concerning the situation as of yet. If the Madison match is counted as a forfeit, then
Davidson will have a record of five wins and one loss. The success can be attributed to the attitude of
John Haskell.

In all sports, winning is something which is emphasized almost to a fanatical extent. Much time, effort, and devotion is
put into various sports at both the college and professional level to attain success; and success means winning. The top-level
personnel (coaches, administrators, etc.) in most sports do, however, keep a fairly rational perspective on the matter. They see sports
as a game where everyone should strive to be his best, and (in team-oriented sports) strive for victory.

But in football, there is a unique single-mindedness. The top-level personnel in major college and pro football have a perspective
all of their own. There is a kind of obsession that is necessary in order to compete in football, an
obsession that one does not see in other sports. Football coaches are unique in trying to rationalize their obsession in
terms of social values. Vince Lombardi was the first proponent of football's social worth in our era. Everyone has heard
his “Winning isn’t everything, it’s the only thing” motto. But to Lombardi, football was more than that. Football meant manliness
and the work ethic all rolled into one. His incessant driving of men 20-35 years of age was to him
an important symbol in society in two ways. First, it exemplified the unassailable American value of discipline. Second, it pointed
out the need of human nature to follow, to have a dominant, authoritative figure in order to succeed and progress.

Tom Landry of the Computer Cowboys is another who explains his work in terms of important social values. Football, he
says, develops maturity and character and promotes the ideals that make America strong. George Allen is also in this school.
Discipline and winning are Allen’s life, and, in fact, he has done just about anything to win. To Allen, football
comes ahead of everything, including family and religion. But pro football is big business, and the coaches live and die
on their ability to win. Unfortunately, in major college football, things aren’t a whole lot different. The coaches there also
see football as one of the rare vestiges of true-blue American values. They see themselves as playing a crucial role
in the development of discipline in America’s youth. Ohio State’s Woody Hayes is probably the colleges’ most vocal and irrational
advocate of football's worth. He truly believes football to be a metaphor for life. He once said, “I see my
job as a part of American civilization and as a damn important part. I see football as being just so.”

This self-importance that football people feel is hard to understand. Runners, etc., are dedicated and disciplined too, but you don’t
hear them claiming that they represent all that is good in America. Football is the most completely communal effort of
any sport, and one must be obsessed and give up something of oneself in order to be better in it.
And for those of us who don’t participate in football, it’s a little bit hard to understand how the sacrifice
is worth the benefit.
