Fearless or Foolish
Bill Peeples

For some unknown reason, Davidson students react to fear in a rather nonchalant way. For instance, when they hear an alarm that would cause the average person to change his pants, folks at Davidson register little or no reaction.

Two examples, one recent, one ancient, show just how crazy these students can be. When Will Terry was a student at Davidson, there was a movie theatre on Main Street where Bub Cashion now has his Gulf station. The gas station is here now because the movie house burned to the ground. Will says that when the theatre caught fire, Davidson students refused to leave, at least until the screen fell in flames to the floor. Several students offered to help the lady at the concession stand get her candy out of the place. She refused. In the end, her wares were a melted chocolate mess.

On the evening of Friday, February 23, the last film of winter term was shown in Love Auditorium. Two minutes before the second showing was to begin, the fire alarm in Chambers sounded. Surprisingly, there is no alarm in Love, so the students inside had no idea what was happening outside. Once "Kelley's Heroes" began, there would have been no chance at all of hearing the alarm. The clanging of the bell would have mixed rather well with the artillery fire coming from Donald Sutherland’s Sherman tank on the wide screen.

The nut in charge of the movie sauntered onto the stage just before the movie was to start. He told the audience of the commotion outside the auditorium. The students were informed that Chambers might be about to burn for the second time in this century. His announcement was calm, but joking. Some folks thought the guy on the stage was kidding. A few took him half seriously. Most called for the show to begin. Even the fellow in the projection booth was becoming impatient. The film was delayed just long enough to give everyone a receipt for the admission charge, which entitled them to a refund at the Union desk if the fire were for real.

They were also given the opportunity to leave with an immediate refund. Two people left. Eighty-six remained. Finally, the deafening alarm stopped, and the projector began to roll. It turned out that some juvenile townie, who obviously was sick in the head, pulled one of the alarms on the first floor. Chambers did not burn to the ground. It didn’t even smolder. The event, however small, is a statement about the degree of horse sense found in a sampling of the student body. Either Davidson students have a little room to rent, or they are so accustomed to pranks that one more practical joke makes little difference.

P.S. One other potential disaster faces Davidson. At 1:00 each afternoon, a siren sounds from behind the laundry. Perhaps this alarm is triggered by some old coot who has been doing it every day for fifty years, and paid handsomely for it, too, out of the athletic budget.

Bill Peeples is Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

Dear Class of '79
Sue McAvoy

About 3½ years ago I was in the position to offer sage counsel to a group of 25 freshman women (along with various and sundry other freshmen). And now that all of them are fixing to graduate, I figured that it would be only fair to share some more words of wisdom now that I’m a "woman of the world."

To start off with, I know you're already aware of this part, but I'll say it anyway. Take advantage of spring term by sharing the time with your closest friends (as opposed to worrying about the “next year” crisis). When I was a freshman, a senior friend gave me that advice—telling me to grab every opportunity that came my way—because he was about to graduate saying “I wish I had...” about lots of things. You need to make sure you leave Davidson having done all that you ever wanted to do there. So just lay back and enjoy your last few weeks ‘cause, as you know, it'll never happen again.

About the career crisis, for the majority of people in your position, nobody really knows what they want to do. You can spend 10 hours or 10 minutes each day thinking about all of it, but it'll be hard to come up with anything.Until you get out into the cold, cruel world and experience for yourself what kinds of things you like to do, what working environments you enjoy, how much responsibility you're willing to accept... So don’t start worrying about it now. There is, however, one important decision to make: choosing a home. You need to decide on a place where you'll be happy, a place that has what you enjoy, whether it be cultural events, close friends, mountains or beach, sports teams, an academic environment—whatever. The reason I say this is that your job situation may cause you a good bit of consternation before you eventually discover the right field for you. And with that kind of turmoil, you need to be happy with the remainder of your life. Your friends will be a great source of moral support (at least mine are) because all of us seem to be searching, career-wise. I learn as much from their experiences as I do from my own. The key is patience—only a few are fortunate enough to find the “right” job on their first attempt. At any rate, you might as well be happy with your life outside of work if you are unsure of the satisfaction you will get from work itself.

Another point I must bring up is that of the "graduate school cop-out.” Lots of my classmates pulled this one, and I'm sure lots of yours are doing the same. No flies on graduate school itself, but when people go just because they can’t think of anything else to do—well, that disappoints me. I know it’s a difficult transition to go from the idyllic Davidson world to the cold cruel world, but I don’t believe that some people actually lack the courage to attempt it. The “grad school cop-out” doesn't even do anything positive for anyone in that respect—it just postpones the decision two or three years. Is that kind of procrastination worth $10,000 in tuition fees?

Well, what I'm actually leading up to is positive (yes, I'm still the eternal optimist)—being out in the cold cruel world may have its traumatic moments, but I must say it’s one of the most exciting experiences I've ever had. Finding an apartment, budgeting for car payments, utility bills and charge cards, doing your own laundry, taking weekend trips to visit Davidson friends, discovering the nooks and crannies of your new city/town, designing your own exercise program (no, they don’t play flickerball out here!)... it’s a tremendous challenge. The great things are the satisfaction of knowing that you can “make it on your own" and the incredible amount of education (non-academic, that is) that you're exposed to. There’s a lot of self-analysis that will go on, and it’s interesting to evaluate your life and thoughts periodically—they do change!

So just go for it these last 10 weeks—take advantage of every minute of it. And when graduation does come, go ahead and be nostalgic and sentimental—but get excited about what lies ahead. For just as your Davidson experience will never happen again, this challenging and responsibility-free time of your life will pass quickly too. So go for it. I'll see y'all at graduation.

Sue McAvoy is a 1977 Davidson graduate currently living in Atlanta.

The Watchman
Andy Miller

In the last two issues of The Davidsonian I have been cast as some sort of leader of a “can Cartmill” crusade. I certainly do feel that the entire athletic program needs to be re-evaluated on an objective basis. The publication of unsubstantiated personal attacks on Mr. Cartmill, however, is a far cry from objective re-evaluation. The article of March 30 was, I feel, largely the result of irresponsible reporting in expressing my personal opinion. Although the three direct quotations were accurate, I feel they were misrepresented, that the facts were misunderstood, and that my name was linked with positions I have never maintained.

A second example of inaccuracy is The Davidsonian editorial of March 28. Contrary to the implications of this article, the administration of the athletic program was never mentioned in my platform, nor was it an active issue in my campaign for SGA president. Such irresponsible journalism can benefit no one. These two articles have hurt Mr. Cartmill personally and have brought embarrassment to myself. In the future, I hope The Davidsonian will be more considerate, or at least more accurate, in dealing with individuals on this campus—I certainly will.

The Davidsonian stands behind its story and its editorial.