BALLET ARTS WORKSHOP
108 South Main Street
Davidson, NC

Beginners through Master Level
Male and Female

For Further Information and Registration Call 892-5709
Christina Williams
Director and Dance Master
29 years of experience

Classes in Session
September through May
Exercise Program 2 nights a week

What's Happened to RECORD PRICES
Save up to $3.00! Major label LP’s! Top artists!
Davidson Student Store
COME IN FOR BEST SELECTION
GET YOUR FAVORITES AT BIG DISCOUNTS

Features Editor

“‘What's available?’ is the main question that students ask and it’s one that really bothers me. The whole world is available!” said Ken Wood, Director of Experiential Programs. “However, the student must first determine his own needs.”

Davidson stresses academics, and this creates an atmosphere that focuses on classrooms, books, and studying. In this atmosphere Wood says the student's “personal development begins to suffer, even at a good liberal arts college like Davidson” because of his lack of experience in the working world.

“The experiential office is here to support the initiative of the students,” Wood feels, and “the student is in control of his own personal learning process. A student should come to our office to actualize his desires for experience.”

“The Centering—Venturing approach best explains the theory behind the experiential office; a student must take the responsibility of personal growth on himself.” The Centering—Venturing process is a cyclical one. The first step involves the student getting in touch with himself and examining his life very closely. The second step is the venture: working in one's area of interest. After venturing a person needs to evaluate his experience and decide on his next venture. Gearing one's own needs to those of the world is fundamental.

“In this individualized approach there are no easy steps. It is a very creative process, a creative muddling through life and work.”

All types of programs are available. Some of the common semi-individualized ones include:
1) Philadelphia Urban Program—Students work in their area of interest. The cost is the same as a term at Davidson, however, room and board are included.
2) National Institute of Internships and Externships—Students get to work in various fields of interest during breaks, for a term, six months, or longer and develop certain skills. These are nonpaying.

“A job is a means for self-fulfillment. The best careers are built on one’s sense of vitality and enthusiasm which one can get through appropriate job experiences and from being in touch with one’s self,” said Wood. “Experiential programs are not difficult to set up, it’s just that students often don’t seek educational experiences outside the classroom.”

Editor's Note: Rick Johnston is a senior who spent last fall working for Senator Lowell Weicker (R-Connecticut) in Washington.

By RICK JOHNSTON
Special to The Davidsonian

The shock of moving into the real world for a Davidson student begins at 7:30 A.M. when instead of throwing on a t-shirt and blue jeans, I reach for my best three-piece suit, which for the first time in my life is hanging in the middle of my closet. I then put on my best leather shoes, which are next to my dusty tennis shoes and aging...Topsiders. I grab my keys, lock the door to my apartment, and walk to the bus stop where the 45-minute commute to the office begins. Like everybody else, I grab a newspaper and proceed to take the bus, which will take me to a subway, which will take me to another subway that will leave me three blocks from where I work. While on the subway, I look up from the newspaper and gaze at a sea of newspapers held in the air by many young, ambitious, and similarly dressed people. I think, “But am I not special? After all, I attend a prestigious liberal arts college and have a respectable G.P.A., even while playing a varsity sport.” I think for a moment and realize that no one knows or cares much about my past.

There are many powerful people with a modest educational background. One's past can make a difference in the real world. For example, how does a bank president know what it’s like to be a hall counselor? An insurance salesman knows a member of Phi Beta Kappa has brains, but can he or she sell insurance? If you were an officer of a fraternity, club, or eating house, what does that mean to a business executive? Does it necessarily mean you did a good job, or even worked at all? What is critical in the real world is appearance, personality, determination, the ability to communicate (orally and verbally), and solve problems. The ability to sell yourself and your ideas to someone else may be most important of all if you are working with other people.

Connections also play a very crucial role. I don't mean connections in the derogatory sense, such as being vice president of John Doe Manufacturing solely because your name is John Doe, Jr. A connection can be anyone who knows you possess some or all the qualities I listed earlier and is willing to help you out. It can range from an English teacher writing a letter of recommendation for someone to a local newspaper to the President hiring someone he knows as Secretary of State. My connection was a United States Senator. This was obviously instrumental in getting a job in his office, but it was even more important when it came to the type of work I did.

Instead of sorting mail, I was consulted by lobbyists, wrote a bill and its floor speech, and even set foot on the Senate floor. My five months in Washington were probably the best educational experience I have ever had. My work may have been a little unusual for a twenty-year-old Davidson student, but there is no reason why anyone else could not find similar opportunities with a little desire for the unusual, some hard work, and some idea of what you like to do. If you have little or no connections with anybody, talk to people.

These are some of the reasons why I feel every Davidson student should have some educational work experience before he or she graduates:
1. It gives you exposure to the real world, which many students don't get enough of.
2. It makes your education at Davidson more meaningful.
3. It gives you a better idea of what you want to do after graduation.
4. It can give you connections that may be beneficial in your career.