THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South’s Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 16
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, February 9, 1979

Faculty postpones vote on 2 examination proposals till March
Brown announces open meeting

By MARK BARRETT
Asst. News Editor

An open meeting of the college community to discuss self-scheduled examinations has been set for Wednesday at 6:30 pm in Chambers Gallery. Student Government Association President Bruce Brown announced the meeting, to be sponsored by the SGA. Brown said the meeting’s format has yet to be worked out, but that it is designed to “increase communication on the matter between faculty and students.” Brown stressed the importance of student participation in the meeting, saying, “Discussion has raised the question that students might not have been as active in supporting the honor code as they should have been.”

“It is up to the student to prove that the honor system can work.” He feels that such proof would be very instrumental in retaining self-scheduled examinations at Davidson. Brown said he strongly opposes any action to permit scheduled exams. He said he feels that although self-scheduled exams are a feature of the honor system and not an integral part, “the honor system would survive without self-scheduled exams, but it would be substantially weaker.” “Self-scheduled exams are the boldest expression of the honor system.” He said he doubted that either optional or mandatory scheduling of exams would cut down on cheating.

Four of the most outspoken proponents and opponents of the present self-scheduled exam system. (clockwise) McKelway, Shi, Brown, and Terry.

Hundreds of students

By Mark Barrett
Asst. News Editor
and Julie Gibert
Staff Writer

Rumors that self-scheduled exams were about to be abolished brought an estimated 300 students to an open-end meeting in the Union Tuesday morning. The rumors were apparently started by two faculty proposals concerning self-scheduled exams. One of the proposals, a recommendation by the Educational Policy Committee, called for the faculty to “reaffirm its approval of self-scheduled examinations.” The other proposal, in the form of a petition signed by eleven faculty members, would have formally given professors the option of scheduling their own examinations.

In its meeting that afternoon, the faculty voted overwhelmingly to table both proposals until its next meeting on March 13. At its meeting Tuesday morning, History Professor David Shi read to the audience the faculty petition to establish a dual system of exams. Under this system, professors would have the recognized option of either scheduling or not scheduling their final exams. Those who chose to do so would schedule their exams according to a schedule published by the Registrar’s office. The petition cited three reasons for the establishment of a dual system: the system “puts an unusual strain on the honor system,” many instructors have already begun scheduling their exams, and the

Housing innovations to involve triples for upperclassmen next fall

By DONALD CALDWELL

Although none of next year’s freshmen will be rooming in triples, housing for Davidson students will remain very tight in the next few years. Scottie Nichols, College Director of Housing, admitted, “I think last year we adopted freshmen triples with misgivings. Sue Ross, Will Terry, and I were hesitant about it, but it was necessary to keep from turning students away.” But upperclassmen won't be quite so lucky. Several rooms on the fourth floor of Belk dorm as well as parts of several college-owned houses on Main Street will be modified to accommodate three upperclassmen where previously two had lived. Selection of one of these triples in April's lottery is purely voluntary, though the Student Housing Office is reducingRoom rates for them to provide an incentive for interested upperclassmen. One far-reaching change next year is being planned: a slightly smaller estimate of students in the college budget. Dean of Students Will Terry stated, "In the past, we have been budgeting for 1300 students, for which we needed to begin the year at 1320, based on an expected decrease in student population through the year. This year, we will be budgeting on a basis of 1290 students, meaning we need to be housing 1310 in September. The fact that we have to allow for the slight decrease in student population explains a lot of the overcrowding during early fall. So it’s not possible to solve the housing shortage just by cutting the number of students admitted. And even the smallest decrease in income would mean cutting back on some services."

While the lower target figure may ease the crunch in the short term, no new dorms or major purchases are presently planned. "There is a crying need for dorm space. I think prospects for a major new dorm are slim in view of interest rates and the possibility of a recession next year. We are looking into dorm space for about 50 students if we can find adequate financing. President Spencer is presently trying to have government regulations on loans for college dormitory construction revised to give smaller colleges like Davidson equal treatment in getting federal loans. Right now, the Housing and Urban Development department’s regulations favor large universities." College Business Manager Robert Currie added, "We have applied and been turned down for the loan program three times. Until we can get such a loan or locate those interested in making gifts to support the project, we can’t do anything."

Attend public forums system constitutes "a needless intrusion upon teaching methods and a violation of professors' rights to conduct examinations as they see fit." Two other open-ends were held, one at Kappa Alpha Tuesday night and one at Fannie and Mable Wednesday night. Each drew at least 100 students to discuss the self-scheduled exam system. Many students at all three meetings held that any change allowing more scheduling of final exams would be very detrimental to the honor system. Others complained that the petition indicated an unjustified lack of trust in students on the part of some faculty members. Students questioned the necessity of tightening controls, saying that cheating was not as widespread as the petitioners claimed.

Sex-blind policy proposed again
By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

For the second time in six months, a proposal has been initiated to end sexual quotas in admissions policy at Davidson.

"RESOLVED: That the present policy of enrolling approximately 250 male and 110 female students in each entering class be replaced by an equal access policy which does not impose a set ratio of male to female students, and is in all other respects in line with the present admissions policy."

The above resolution is part of the proposal for an equal access admissions policy at Davidson introduced Feb. 6 by the College’s chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW). The proposal is currently under review by the Advisory Committee on Admissions. NOW member Nancy Warren said, "NOW feels that the admissions goal of Davidson, which is to admit the best-qualified applicants based on applications, is violated by the present sex-based quota system. We (NOW) feel that an equal access policy would better achieve this goal," Warren explained.

NOW blames the present quota system, set two and a half years ago by the Trustees, for not allowing academically well-qualified women to be considered for admission to Davidson. The proposal cites that "tentative profile statistics for the entering class of 1980 indicate that the average SAT scores for women admitted under the present quota system are significantly lower than those for men."