THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Citing sources

More changes were made in The Davidsonian this week than in the last five years. And since change is at
best slightly unsettling, at worst terribly traumatic, and, like everything else, only seems good when people like it, we ask
you to give us a chance to explain ourselves.

No doubt the most obvious change, the change you are most likely to have noticed, is in the appearance of
the paper. The nameplate is different, wider, and lighter; the headlines are smaller and often darker. There are some features
in the paper that are new, others that have been in the paper before but are reappearing, still others that
have been dropped or altered. But these changes are largely superficial. It is the writing of the newspaper that matters
and no matter how it is dressed up graphically, no matter how the articles are arranged, if the basic writing
is not good, the paper is not good.

We hope that the real change that has taken place on The Davidsonian recently, the organizational change, will bear fruit
in better writing. We hope that even with this first issue the articles have already noticeably improved. The staff is
almost one-third larger than ever before. The duties and responsibilities of each person have become fewer but more definite. All
the deadlines on the paper have been staggered so that there will be more time to edit stories and proofread
them.

Because Davidson does not offer a course in journalism, the only source we often have to go by in making
changes on The Davidsonian are the commercial papers that come into the library, and since many of the ideas now
being used in the paper are taken directly from these and other papers, we feel they should be credited. The
content of The Davidsonian has been reorganized to conform more to The Christian Science Monitor, The New York Times, and
The Vanderbilt Hustler; the new design has been taken, in part, from The St. Petersburg Times, The New York Times,
and The Chronicle of Higher Education. At least some of the ideas used in putting together the new editorial pages
were taken from The New Yorker Magazine, The Albany Herald, and The New York Times. The idea for the rotating
ombudsman’s space, or “The Watchman” column, as it is being called, originated, at least for us, with The Washington Post’s
“Deskbook on Style.” The continuation style used on page 11 was taken from The Atlanta Constitution; the new section heads
are based on those used in The Christian Science Monitor. Also, Davidson Update Editor Buck Lawrimore and Mecklenburg Gazette Editor
Moreland Hogan have been helpful in giving technical advice. We hope you like the changes.

About the retiring editor

Getting criticized is what an editor normally does for a living, but when former Davidsonian Editor Phil Duncan snatched the
first draft of Dr. Zimmermann’s proposed Code of Faculty Evaluation from a faculty mailbox last spring, he got more than
criticism. He had to live through a nightmare of public scorn for more than a month, and even now there
are those who say he should have been punished more severely than he was. He and his staff learned a
hard lesson from the experience: a newspaper must be blameless in its own actions to effectively criticize public officials and
the decisions they make. But learning the lesson was not enough. The Davidsonian had to rebuild itself this fall. There
are few benefits to be had from setting up clay heroes, of course, and Duncan, like everyone else on the
staff, was besieged.ns olde PA we believe ibe rm oe Cant to 8 dood sepa. to. ae more time to
a campus organization than Duncan did to The Davidsonian this fall. While slow to use the resources of the paper
to defend himself, he never hesitated to defend a staff member whom he felt was being unjustly criticized.

Gia Partain

The Campus Forum

Problems with WDAV

To the Editor:

It has been over a month since the "new" WDAV has resumed operations. The main reason that the administration took
over the operation and programming of the station was to make it sound more professional and to provide a "high
quality fine-arts station." Well, it seems time that this more "professional" sound and "quality" programming was examined.

While we were listening to WDAV Saturday, January 13, we noticed several things about the broadcast quality. First, the broadcast
of the Metropolitan Opera was on only one channel of the stereo broadcast. Evidently, the D.J. wasn’t aware of the
problem or didn’t know how to correct it. Second, the same announcer did not balance the volume of his announcements
with the music. Again, he evidently didn’t listen to what he was doing.

After the Met ended, the D.J. announced the next piece, Beethoven’s "Archduke" trio, but he neglected to give the names
of the performers other than the cellist. This was unfair to the pianist and the violinist who certainly deserved just
as much credit.

Fourth, while the trio was playing, the announcer somehow managed to skip the record. This same Saturday, from 7:30 to
10:00 pm, the D.J. played in order "Pictures at an Exhibition," "Alexander Nevsky," and the "1812 Overture." Individually, each of
these pieces is a masterpiece; played in sequence, they form a musical cliché—"Top 40 Russian Romantic music." If this was
a special program, he should have announced it as such.

If the intention of the administration in taking over the operation of WDAV was to improve the quality of the
broadcasts and thus improve the image of Davidson among Charlotte listeners, the sort of performance we heard Saturday will do
little or nothing to accomplish this end. While this sort of program might be acceptable from an amateur operation, it
certainly does not live up to paid professional standards. Furthermore, since our tuition money is helping to pay for the
station, we feel the money is being poorly used—if we have to pay the costs of subsidizing a professional radio
station, we have a right to expect a quality product. In the interests of quality programming and fiscal responsibility, we
feel the administration should re-examine some of their recent decisions. We hope the station manager can remedy at least some
of these failings. We certainly hope so.

James Gibbert '79
Carole Loptson '81
Edward Trumbull '81

Registration blues

To the Editor:

As the time of registration for the courses of next term is approaching, I would like to suggest a possible
improvement in the registration procedure. I propose that a pre-registration period be established during which students could indicate their course
preferences. The results would be tabulated. Then, the departments could decide which courses to teach. After that would come the
regular registration procedure. No system could possibly ensure that all students receive every course they want and need, but a
system of pre-selection by students could take a long stride in that direction. As such, it deserves serious consideration.

Walter Davidson Pharr '81

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200
words) and clarity. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C.
