Sports

Biedenbach signs 4 recruits despite Sports Illustrated article

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Coach Eddie Biedenbach, the basketball coaching staff, and Wildcat basketball fans will not forget the Sports Illustrated article that blasted Davidson recruiting policies for a long time. After all the controversy has passed over, however, the story might not have done as much harm to Davidson basketball as it first seemed.

“Initially we had to answer and explain it so much that it was ridiculous,” Coach Biedenbach said. “But now it has a more positive factor,” he continued, “in that the gist is forgotten, the wrong accusations are forgotten, but the Davidson basketball name sticks in people’s minds.”

The story did affect the 1979 basketball recruiting year in that the coaching staff had to “work hard and spend more money” to disclaim the story. “But it did not hurt recruiting at all,” he said. Davidson has announced the signing of four recruits for next year’s team, and Coach Biedenbach feels that they will make “great contributions in academics, attitude, and basketball.” He said, “The four players that we signed will help immediately to improve the basketball picture at Davidson.”

John Carroll of DeMatha High School in Hyattsville, Md., was Davidson’s first signee for 1979. Carroll is a 6-2, 180-pounder who averaged 17 points, 5 assists, and 4 steals per game last winter. He shot 58 percent from the floor and 86 percent from the foul line. Coach Biedenbach said, “He plays defense, he’s team-oriented, can shoot and score, and can do the playmaking.”

Cliff Tribus from N. Caldwell, N.J., will be coming to Davidson from West Essex High School where he averaged 25 points and 13 rebounds per game. He set a single-season school record of 616 points this last season. Tribus is a 6-9 forward.

Biedenbach likes the “flexibility” of 6-5, 190-pound Rich Wilson of McLean High School in Virginia. Wilson averaged 19.1 points per game and also averaged 11.8 rebounds and 5.6 assists.

The staff went to Hudson, Wis., to recruit all-state Casey Ramm. Ramm, the valedictorian of his graduating class, averaged 25.2 points and 4 assists per game. He is a 6-3 guard.

Intramural Bowling League formed this winter

Bowling season ends this weekend; Fighting Sheep still in first place

By BRUCE LIPSITZ
Staff Correspondent

This past winter term, a group of students formed the Intramural Bowling League with Bruce Lipsitz as president. This league has been independently run with no IMAC support. League matches have been held each Friday afternoon at 8:15 at Moor Lanes in Mooresville since the last week of winter term.

The league consists of ten teams. These teams represent all walks of Davidson life: Harry’s Fighting Sheep (ATO), KA, Rumbles and the Chainmail Gang (Sig Ep), Surrogate Mothers (FIJI), SAE, J.D. Testers (Sig Ep), Gutter Skunks (FIJI pledges), Misfits (ind.), Hoopes & Co. (ind.), and We Know We’re Great (old freshman hall).

The season will conclude this weekend. Harry’s Fighting Sheep is in first place with a somewhat comfortable lead. Although six 200-plus games have been bowled so far, averages range from approximately 175 down to 100. Most of the approximately 55 bowlers average between 110 and 125.

Next year, the Union Games Committee will sponsor three seven-week seasons—one each term. Trophies will be awarded to the championship team each season. Chances are now very good that bowlers will be able to count the League towards the P.E. requirement.

Current bowling standings are posted at the Union information desk, the Wildcat Sports News bulletin board on the Library’s main floor, and on the door of Sentelle 1. For more information, contact Bruce Lipsitz at Sentelle 1 (-6139) or Fess Crockett at Belk 218 (-6176).

Cat’s Bob Lapple may find future in pros

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Davidson has had a number of good athletes in the past years, but there have been few who were recognized nationally as truly great. Dick Snyder, Mike Maloy, and John Gerdy in basketball, Jimmy Poole, Mike Mikolayunas in football, and George Weicker in baseball are a few such great performers. Surely, in the future, Bob Lapple will be remembered as one of the all-time great baseball players at Davidson College.

Lapple, a 6-foot, 195-pound junior, was voted All-Southern Conference catcher both his freshman and sophomore years and stands a good chance of being voted All-Conference again this year. After his sophomore year, he was named to the NCAA Division III baseball team. In his college career, Lapple has been very consistent at the plate, batting a strong .310 over three years.

Such credentials should assure Lapple of a phone call from a pro team on June 7. That’s the day the big league draft begins and since scouts have been watching him so eagerly for three years, his chances of being drafted seem excellent.

“My goal is to play pro ball,” Lapple says, and his opportunity may arise soon since, as a junior, he becomes eligible for the pro draft. (No pro team may draft a college player prior to his junior year.) If drafted, Lapple hopes to play pro ball this summer, then return to Davidson for fall and winter terms. “Since the pros start spring practice...Just about the same time our spring term begins, I can stay in school with the team here before leaving for spring workouts.” Lapple then plans to return the following fall or winter to finish his requirements for graduation. By being drafted, Lapple will join three other Wildcats, George Weicker, Tim Barr, and Stan Brown, all of whom are playing pro ball now. These few pro players hardly make Davidson a nationally respected baseball school. Why then did a player of Lapple’s caliber choose to come to Davidson?

“I came to play both football and baseball, and, as it worked out, things went best in baseball. I’ve never regretted coming to Davidson because I think it has a lot to offer. The education is great and the opportunity to have close friends is much better than at a large university,” Lapple said. After his freshman year, Lapple was offered at several schools including William and Mary and Temple, but he decided to stay at Davidson.

Lapple credits Davidson’s coach, Palmer Muench, with much of his personal success. “Coach Muench really helped me with my hitting. He’s a great coach who cares about his players both as athletes and as people.” Coach Muench says about Lapple, “He is the most well-rounded catcher I’ve ever coached. His strong arm, quick bat, and, most importantly, his motivation should make it possible for him to be successful in the big league.”

As Bob Lapple finishes his time at Davidson, he has given Davidson a great contribution of his own: the dedication of his time, talents, and will. He will be missed by coaches, fellow players, and friends. The Davidson community must believe that Lapple has a bright future in baseball.

Catcall
By John Haskell

Another uneventful, or at least unsuccessful, year of Davidson sports has come to a close. As usual, the losses far outweighed the wins in the major sports. Many of the minor sports had winning years, though, and things are certainly looking good in that respect. It is true, however, that there is some well-founded optimism in the camps of our two big-time sports. Eddie Biedenbach’s squad is looking forward to an extended return of Rich DiBenedetto, the continued improvement of this year’s freshmen, as well as some good recruits. Of course, this wasn’t a particularly successful season just past, but if the good players stick around (which in view of recent history isn’t something upon which we can rely), it seems the basketball program may be on the upswing.

The situation in football doesn’t look all too bad, either. The grid-Cats are coming off a 5-5 season with some very impressive performances under their belt. The club shows considerable potential, and this year’s freshman class is expected to contribute quite a bit to next year’s lineup. Any experienced Davidson sports follower will assure you that all this is no guarantee of success, but it does seem fair to say that at least the potential for an upswing is there.

But getting back to the minor sports (which, as I mentioned before, are providing us with considerable success), it seems that their situation is very precarious. It is with their plight that I am concerned. It has continually been the policy to keep the emphasis on tennis, baseball, soccer, track, swimming, and the women’s sports at a minimum. Many of these sports have had recent success with little material support coming from our athletic policymakers. The only exception is soccer, which is now benefitting from increased emphasis. The point is that these are all potentially successful and vibrant programs, and could be upgraded tremendously at relatively little cost. The way it stands now, the coaches of these sports haven’t the opportunity (for financial reasons) to do much recruiting at all and for all intents and purposes must accept random athletes coming out of the admissions process. There is no way that these coaches—and let it not be mistaken that we have some very good people coaching the minor sports—have any control over their programs. Their lack of finances forces them to be at the mercy of chance when it comes to the continuing success and stability of their programs. It is, in fact, the case that some of these minor sports are actually being de-emphasized when at so relatively little cost they could be improved considerably.

The situation for the minor sports at Davidson is so absurd that the Athletic Department turns down (as a matter of policy) donations that are offered on the condition that they be used only for a particular minor sport. This ridiculous policy has cost golf and baseball considerable money. Meanwhile, incredible sums are spent in the two sports which are the most difficult for a small school to compete in. The trustees think we can make a name for ourselves if we succeed. As I stated before, things may be on the upswing, but I still think that “if” looms mighty large. The fact that we could, with little reasonable doubt, maintain success in our minor sports if they were emphasized more is important. We might even make a name for ourselves. Although things may be looking up in our big-time athletics, I still think it might be beneficial if the trustees did some re-evaluating of the sports program here at Davidson, leaving their cloud of unrealistic nostalgia behind.