Singing, and we will know that spring has arrived. With its arrival, spring brings renewed action on the diamond, on
the oval, and on the fairway as the Davidson Varsity baseball, track, and golf teams begin their 1979 spring seasons.
All three teams should be primed for action since they have practiced and played since the fall. The baseball team
started practice in the third week of September and has practiced consistently since then. The track team has participated in
a three-team indoor meet this winter and has many runners who ran on the cross-country team in the fall. The
golf team also participated in several tournaments in the fall.

The Wildcat baseball team looks strong for this season, having lost only three seniors. The infield has eight upperclassmen: Sid
Osborne at first base, Blaine Sanders and Andy Hosay at second, Jobi Melton at shortstop, and Cam Zurbruegg, John Haskell,
and Jeff Ray at third base. The Cats add several talented freshmen infielders in Marc Webster, Allen Griffin, Terry Greiner,
and Diggs Bishop. At catcher, the Cats have all-Southern Conference player Bob Lapple, a junior, who will be "springing" into
action with sophomores Yates Sealander and freshman Chris Norwood. Outfielders for the Cats are Tim McDowell in left, John Porter
in center, and Jim Richards in right. Freshman Earl Ransom will also see some outfield action.

Pitching remains the big question for the Cats this year since the graduation of Tim Purcell and the transfer of
Bill Duke to Clemson has left the starting rotation somewhat depleted. However, the Cats do have some experience on the
mound since they are led by four senior pitchers: starters Ron Cannon and Ken Norwood, and relievers Mike Lins and
John Madden. Also starting for the Cats on the mound will be Dave Tornetta and John Young. Sophomore Rod Hannah
and freshman Rusty Colecchia will also hurl for the Cats. Tri-captain Tim Goodell will be an important pinch hitter.

The Wildcat track team looks strong this year since many of the runners from last year’s team (which tallied an
8-1 record in dual meets) are returning. Leading the Cats in distance races is senior Doug Horn who is accompanied
by cross-country stars Bart Landess, Terry Morrow, and the talented freshman John Hoots. Dick Jones and Lance Sisco will run
hurdles and the multi-talented Sisco also competes in the triple jump, pole vault, and decathlon. In the sprints, the Cats
are led by senior Carl Riflers.

Edge the Citadel; S.C. championships next

By DEAN ECKLUND
Staff Writer

In basketball, Davidson has labored for many years since its last 20 victory season, but this year the Davidson rifle
team has quietly shattered that 20 victory mark. Last Saturday at Davidson, the rifle team clipped the Citadel, 1317-1310, to
raise its record to 26-6. Robbie Kirkendol led Davidson by posting the best score of the match—a 268 out of
a possible 300. Close behind Kirkendol for Davidson were John Parham with a 267, Katherine Whitney with 266, Craig Rice
with a 260, and John Hartman with a 256.Tom Niblock (255), Pat Stewart, and Louis Williams also shot for Davidson.
The rifle team’s success can be attributed to the fact that we've been practicing a lot and working very hard.
Dr. Pe has been working with us and has helped us a lot. The rifle team participates in the Southern
Conference tournament Saturday. With some of the best rifle teams in the nation at Southern Conference schools such as VMI,
ASU, the Citadel, and East Tennessee State, Davidson’s rifle team will be severely tested.

Wrestling team falls to W&L.
By DAVID PIPER
Staff Writer

Last Friday, the Davidson wrestling team lost its last home match of the season to Washington and Lee by a
score of 36-22. As has been the case all season, some strong individual performances partially offset the loss. Kevin Spangler,
Scott Smith, captain Pat Dulany, and Svend Pedersen all won their matches. Steve Sellers took a commanding lead in his
126-pound match, but, in a bizarre turn of events, pinned himself. The squad travels to Hampden-Sydney tomorrow (Friday) for a
dual meet and then to another location on Saturday for a tri-meet. The Southern Conference Championship is slated for the
weekend in Chattanooga.

McPhail and junior Terrazzo Wallace were major point winners for the Cats last year until McPhail suffered a serious knee
injury in a hurdling accident. After bouncing back from surgery, McPhail should help the Cats in the sprints and relays.
In the weights, David Taylor has been healing an injury and will miss the first few meets, but he hopes
to come back strong for the end of the season to help the Cats in the discus. Joining Taylor at
the weights are freshmen Willie Lanier, Ray Sinclair, and Ken Fleming.

The golf team is led by seniors Sollie Foy, Parks Neisler, and Joe Davis. Junior Mark Hess and sophomores Bill
Baird and L.D. Simmons will also lead the Cats. During Spring break, the team will travel to Florida to play
in the Seminole Classic in Tallahassee. Then they will travel to Fripp Island, S.C. to play in the Fripp Island
Invitational. During spring term, the team plans to play in four tournaments: N.C. Collegiate, Elon Invitational, Jacksonville Classic, and the
Southern Conference Tourney.

Spring offers a pleasant setting to enjoy one’s leisure time outdoors, and the Cat Spring athletic schedule should offer plenty
of exciting outdoor action. Students, staff, faculty, and friends of the college are all encouraged to support the Wildcat baseball,
track, and golf teams as they seek successful seasons this year.

Sid Osborne slugs another one in batting practice while John Porter watches. [Gregg Strader]

And foosball!! FREE BEER!!! For the next three Tuesdays, you, yes, you can get FREE DRAFT at THE CORNER!! From
9 pm until 1 am, free draft with $1 cover. Come and get it while you can. The Corner also
offers darts, pinball, pool. 1/2 mile north on 115. Phone 892-6159. Open: 12 noon - 1 am Monday - Saturday,
4 pm - 1 am Sunday. Don’t miss the fun, come to THE CORNER.
