THE DAVIDSONIAN
The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 25
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, May 11, 1979

Thieves strike local emporium
By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

Glass Emporium owner Gary Lindabury may start using guard tarantulas as a security measure after the recent robbery at his
North Main Street establishment. Lindabury said early Saturday morning burglars smashed the Emporium’s street-front display window, probably with a baseball
bat or lead pipe, and removed six custom stained-glass windows. He said thieves never entered the shop, but only reached
through the gaping hole in the front window. Lindabury valued the loss at about $2,000. “All the pieces were one
of a kind—all signed by the artists,” he said. “There would be no problem identifying them. They stick out like
a sore thumb,” he added. Lindabury explained the pieces were all commissioned work; many were just finished this week. “They
weren’t in- (See Theft, page 11) early Saturday morning. The Glass Emporium on Main Street was broken into and robbed
(Brad Kerr).

Standard Oil executive Swearingen to give keynote; Board of Visitors meeting features energy discussion
By JIM GARRETT
News Editor

John E. Swearingen, Chairman of the Board of Standard Oil Company (Indiana) and of American Petroleum Institute, will deliver the
Keynote Speech to approximately eighty members of the Board of Visitors at a dinner Friday evening in Chambers Gallery. Swearingen’s
speech highlights the Board of Visitors’ “Energy Weekend” that includes Friday dinner, Saturday discussions, and lunch. Board of Visitors Secretary
Matthew Covington urged “as many students as care to participate” to attend Saturday morning’s energy discussions. Academic Affairs Vice President
Price Zimmermann will introduce the discussions in Chambers Gallery at 10:30 am. The discussions will begin at 11:00 am. Economics
Professor Robert Avinger is the faculty leader for a discussion on the “Economics of Energy” in Chambers 329. Physics Professor
Locke White will lead a discussion entitled “Science of Energy” in Chambers 310. Physics Professor Allen Wolf is the faculty
leader for a discussion of “Energy and Government” and Physics Professor Robert Manning will lead a discussion entitled “What can
Colleges Do?” “Saturday morning’s discussions are an excellent opportunity for students to meet business leaders and to discuss pertinent problems,”
Covington said. “It is a unique opportunity. Such interaction fulfills the ideal of liberal arts,” he added. During the General
Session meeting of the Visitors Saturday, John Belk, President of Belk Stores and former mayor of Charlotte, and Freeman Jones,
Vice President of Cox Broadcasting Company in Charlotte, will be formally installed as the new Chairman and Vice Chairman, respectively,
of the Board of Visitors. In addition, a formal presentation of the E.H. Little Library’s 250,000th volume will be held
Friday evening. The 250,000th volume is an eighteenth-century bible with elaborate fore-edge painting. According to Covington, the Board of Visitors
is a 162-member group with responsibility to serve the college as ambassadors.

Durden wins Davidsonian election; promises major changes next year
By JOHN SIMAN
Staff Writer

Junior Merideth Durden won the Davidsonian editorship Tuesday over Marshall Waddell by a vote of 312 to 259, according to
SGA tallies. She will replace acting Co-Editors Ann Garner and Dennis McLawhorn in September and will serve through December, when
regular elections will be held. Durden said she will eliminate the Davidsonian’s motto “The South’s Foremost College Weekly,” but will
reemphasize the idea behind it. “The Davidsonian can be the South’s foremost college weekly,” she said, “but we need not
state that.” Other visual changes will include the use of a higher grade of paper to improve photography quality, Durden
said. However, she added she will not initiate many visual changes and will generally retain present typeface and layout. On
the other hand, Durden described major changes in journalistic approach. “I want more investigative reporting rather than incidental reporting,” she
said. Durden repeatedly emphasized the idea of more in-depth coverage of news, saying, “I would like to revive something like
a Focus.” She said such news analyses will complement regular news. “Of course give (major) news top priority, but when
there isn’t any top priority news, you don’t blow up other news. Write about something interesting... something that should be
thought about and that has been investigated,” she explained. Durden said she wants to see more page-three magazine articles. She
commended this year’s Life Abroad onthe JYA Program, Davidson Social Life Before Co-education, and this week’s “An Old Man’s View
of Davidson.” Durden’s approach to sports will be to “have the athletes involved write.” She said she already has a
commitment from Varsity football player David Donaldson. Such use of student athletes, according to Durden, will allow readers “to get
facts and get a feeling from sports reporting.” A former Features Editor, Durden said that section could use “a whole
different sort of approach.” She feels that features is now too much of “a listing of what’s happening” and would
improve with articles that were more analytical and in-depth. Durden used the coverage of the Convocation awards as an example
of the type of features article that could be improved. A description of how and why the awards were made
ought to accompany the mere listing of awards and winners, she said. While campaigning for the editorship, Durden emphasized her
interest in improving the staff. To increase staff size she plans to recruit people who are likely to write well—English
(See Durden, page 11)

‘Gypsy professors’ discuss pros and cons of their one-year contracts

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Senior Features Editor

One year teachers have been dubbed “the gypsy professors” and accused of teaching with one hand and writing resumes with
the other. Usually, they are the young professors who search for their first jobs in an overcrowded market and are
forced to take one-year nonrenewable contracts. As a rule, Davidson gives renewable two-year contracts rather than single-year ones. “One-year contracts
are used only in special circumstances,” explained Price Zimmerman, Vice President of Academic Affairs. Davidson has four teachers on one-year
contracts: Benjamin Garrett in Chemistry, Lani Burnett in Psychology, Wellnitz in Biology, and Bohdan Hlibtschuk in Spanish. Their opinions of
one-year contracts vary greatly.

“I think I'd go to work in a factory before I'd take another one-year teaching position,” stated William Wellnitz, currently
with the Davidson Biology Department. “It is so unstable because you know you have to leave.” “They are a dead
end,” Wellnitz bluntly stated. The one-year contract was an impediment to such things as establishing roots in the community,” commented
Garrett. “We wondered about buying a house if we were only going to be here a year. My wife really
had to think about job hunting if it was just for a year.” Although Garrett claims his year of teaching
has been “the most fun I’ve ever had,” he realizes that “teaching is a buyer’s market.” “When I finished graduate
school I never expected to have a chance to teach at the sort of institution I wanted to teach at,”
Garrett explained, “so a one-year appointment here offered me the opportunity to see if I liked teaching and if teaching
liked me.”

Wellnitz, on the other hand, points to several negative aspects of the one-year experience. “One year is not long enough
to develop any kind of an academic program,” he stated. Wellnitz also sees them as “a cheap way for the
college to get labor. They just keep shuffling people in and out of the same place. So they avoid giving
raises, etc. This leads to less than effective teaching.” Burnett, however, points out that one-year contracts may be the best
situation for inexperienced teachers. “It’s a lot less trouble for both ends.” She points out that teachers and colleges have
a chance to see how effectively the recent graduate functions as a teacher.

Hlibtschuk recognizes that one-year contracts are “a good tool both economically and politically” because the college and the professor get
to check each other out. But Hlibtschuk is critical of their use because “I don't feel that one year is
enough time to acclimate oneself to the college and the workload. It is not enough time to develop one’s full
potential.” Hlibtschuk is getting out of the academic profession after this year. “To go on accepting one-year contracts is professional
suicide,” he stated. He cites declining enrollments in colleges and ever-increasing numbers of PhDs as part of the ever-growing problem.
All four of Davidson’s single-year professors said they realized that there was going to be a job crunch while they
were in (See Professors, page 11)

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1978-79 school year. The next issue will appear the second week
of fall term.
