‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

Placement Problems

Freshmen are more or less settled in and it is time to concentrate on getting the seniors out. Traditionally, about 70 percent of Davidson graduates go right on to graduate school. Does this number reflect a love of academics or is it simply an indication that many students just don’t know what they want to do? More importantly, would a vigorous placement program increase their chances of finding a satisfying job and thereby decrease the number of students who trip blithely (but uncertainly) off to graduate school?

Granted, there are some Davidson students who know what they want to do after college. And a large percentage of people here have their minds set on legal or medical careers that require advanced degrees before hitting the job market. But there are many students who have trouble making a major, much less choosing a career path. It is not that these students are lazy; on the contrary, they may feel that they have so many interests and abilities that it is a shame to specify and narrow down. This depth seems consistent with the liberal arts philosophy. Students should have four years to expand and explore. These same liberal arts students require a liberal placement program.

The reality of today’s job market situation means that a liberal arts college must have an aggressive placement program; one that offers graduates more options than graduate schools and a few large corporations. Davidson has no placement office per se; we have the Office of Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning. The concept is one that fits in well with the liberal arts philosophy; students are encouraged to do lots of “personal homework” and soul searching and then to take their identified skills and interests and fashion an ideal career plan. Last year 90 students “creatively muddled” through the Venturing Workshops and more than a hundred fashioned internships or externships.

The Campus Forum

Parents’ Association

To the Editor:

I know I speak for at least several other students as well when I say that I find the recent Parents Association Newsletter utterly offensive. The two-page letter begins: “The 1979-80 academic year is well under way at Davidson and our sons and daughters are settling down to do the things that make their college all that it is.” Deducting pleas for money and the usual “politesse,” two-thirds or more of the letter is devoted to football—“the big news at Davidson this year.” Mom and Dad are told about Davidson’s “vanquished opponents” and the Wildcat’s only loss to a “powerful Bucknell.” (Only a “powerful” Bucknell could do that.)

The letter goes on to recount how many amazing yards per carry are made as part of collegiate athletics. This means that only 8.39% of the total budget is spent on activities participated in by more than 25% of the student body. Misallocation of Funds? Perhaps. Another interesting figure is the fact that the total dollar amount spent on athletics dropped over $65,000 from 1978 to 1979. In a time of inflation well in excess of 10%, I think this is quite an accomplishment. Can any other department claim to have spent over 8% less in 1979 than in 1978? Excessive expenditures? Perhaps.

Davidson strives to attract a diverse student body and in so doing the college is bound to bring in some people who desire more than an academic education. Successes and failures in the classroom are vitally important in the educational process, as too are the impacts of total personal development. Most significantly, an estimated 750 students set up personal counseling sessions with the Director of Life/Work Planning.

Harold Anthony Lloyd ’81Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

is over half the student body, and well, since our team runs af’ the Editor: penis aa sr aches certainly this number reflects the concern and “wing-T offense.” Once again the Athletic budget has come under fire from the College community. Being in a basic problem of Life/Work Planning is getting students to go to the office and start searching before Spring Term senior year. Ideally, students would go to Centuring-Venturing and set up some experiential learning experience during their early years at Davidson. But, as the numbers show, this has not been the case. Students need to explore earlier. Davidson needs two offices; one of Experiential Learning that encourages students to explore both themselves and the working world and another office of placement for seniors who have a vague idea of what they want to do, but just don’t know where to start looking. The two offices should not have separate philosophies or facilities. But two distinct staffs are needed to handle the work involved. This weekend, for example, the Parent’s Council will initiate a pilot project that encourages participation by parents in the Experiential Learning/Life Work Planning program. Parents will be given a chance to sponsor a student intern or extern in their line of work.

This sort of utilization of resources should be applied to alumni too. It is absurd to expect the current couple of Experiential Learning staff to handle this sort of program in addition to their present activities. They now have only two full-time staff members. Only when the college helps seniors get out can we hope to have a school, and a society, that operates from within. Placement must be given higher priority.

As was cited in the 12 October, 1979 Davidsonian, the Athletic Department budget constituted 8.39% of the total college budget in 1979, down from previous years. There are roughly 1300 students enrolled at Davidson, and approximately 350 participate in intercollegiate athletic teams. I fear the student body would become very homogeneous. There is nothing wrong with an emphasis on academics, but we, personally, feel that intercollegiate athletics serve to enrich the Davidson liberal arts atmosphere.

Steve Risley '81
Ed Imbrogno '81