2—The Davidsonian—April 13, 1979

Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by...
CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115
“Good Builders Since 1925”
M. A. Wicker
President & Treasurer
Ben L. Millsaps
Exec. Vice President & Secretary

Housing director anticipates career change
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

After 15 years as Director of Student Housing, Scotty Nicholls will be resigning at the end of this fiscal year. Nicholls pointed out, “I’m not retiring, just resigning from this job. I’ve been planning for some time that I would resign after this year and I tendered my formal resignation in the fall. I’ve been doing this for 15 years and I think it’s time to turn it over to someone else.” Nicholls noted, however, that they still haven’t found a replacement.

As for her future, Nicholls said, “I’m hoping I'll find another job somewhere but I’m not sure what I want to go into. I would love to continue to work for the college if there was some job available that I qualified for.”

(continued from page 1)

After Erwin voluntarily left the auditorium, Professors John Kello and Sam Maloney both read the letters they were composing and planning to send to Erwin and the Media Board. Kello said last week’s Supplement contained “the ugliest, most vicious character assassinations along with sharp wit.” Maloney called it a “misuse of trust” that should “not be repeated in this student generation.” He said whoever wrote the descriptions of some members of the Biology and English departments in particular revealed a “distressing lack of compassionate sensitivity.”

“What recourse do these people have to unsigned articles?” Maloney asked. “What should be done to students who steal the reputations and good names of members of the community?” he added.

Philosophy professor Robert Maydole also addressed the issue of unsigned descriptions. He said Erwin exercised poor judgment in accepting, and then printing, articles whose writer was not known. But he added that Erwin “should not bear the brunt of the responsibility.”

Davidsonian Focus Editor Don Caldwell said “twenty or more (people) helped write for the Supplement.”

The Davidsonian is published weekly except during the summer months, holidays, and the first and tenth week of every term, by the students of Davidson College, on the Thursday preceding the issue date. The newspaper’s office is on the third floor of the College Union. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036; telephone 892-2000, Ext. 148. Subscription rate: $6.00 per year. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Nicholls added that she was not going to leave Davidson, saying “This is my home.” The Nicholls moved here in 1963 but Scotty feels that it’s time for a change. “So much has changed and yet in some ways nothing has changed. In working with a constantly changing population, with the arrival of new students every year, there’s bound to be excitement every year and it keeps you on your toes.

“I have loved the job, thoroughly enjoyed it, but I feel as though I’ve done it all and I would rather move on to something else. I don't want to reach the point where I’m weary of it that I'm no longer interested in the people. It is time to bring in a new person.”make our best strides forward and progress faster when there is someone new. “It is time for a change,” Nicholls concluded.

SCOTTY NICHOLS

this issue.” He explained that the Supplement began with a positive goal — it was intended to mock the SGA’s course evaluation guide that was compiled several years ago to help incoming freshmen choose their courses. Caldwell added there was never any malicious intent; the maliciousness that resulted he attributed to “a total failure of organization.” Maloney retorted, “It’s not an organizational problem, it’s a moral problem.” But then English professor Charles Lloyd rebounded, “It’s not a moral one, it’s a joke that backfired. All we can do is walk away from it.”

“It takes a long, long time to make a good joke. If I make even one before I die, I'll be happy,” Lloyd said.

One question that frequently arose at the meeting was the amount of action that should be taken against those who participated in the Supplement. “Raking up the past does no good,” Lloyd said. “I don’t think it would be useful to dig them (the participants) up,” Caldwell recommended.

Davidsonian Executive Editor Bill Peeples said some contributions to the Supplement were submitted anonymously, while some staff members acknowledged at the meeting they were lapse in not knowing the exact contents of what was to be printed. “If the editor does not know what's going in the paper, he is...” Kello said. A student pointed out that because of the very nature of a spoof the editor should be aware of all its contents.

Physics professor Robert Manning said he fears the gulf this issue might create between students and faculty. “What’s worth teaching at Davidson?” (“It’s certainly not the Trustees,” he kidded.) He said it is the closeness and integrity of the community — the relationship between students and faculty here. “We can’t think of it in terms of ‘them and us,’ but a community,” Manning added.

SGA President John Jackson stressed the issue in no way was representative of the thoughts of the student body. “Students are concerned (over this misrepresentation) — their turnout here today indicates that,” he said.

Davidsonian Business Manager Martin Hunter cleared the air over the confusion surrounding the typewritten letter that appeared at the beginning of the Supplement. He explained he saw the unfinished letter in a typewriter in the Davidsonian office and “couldn’t resist” finishing it. “But lo and behold it got printed,” he said. “I don’t know how it got Harry’s (Harry Greyard) signature on it,” Hunter added.

Davidsonian Senior Opinions Editor George Murdaugh concluded the discussion session by saying, “He (Erwin) may have failed in responsibility, but he does care a lot about the faculty.”

—Erwin— (continued from page 1)

future is concerned, Garner explained, “We must work to improve faculty and student relations and we must keep a closer watch over what is printed.”

McLawhorn said, “I hope faculty members will not have a negative attitude toward us. Ann and I were not involved in the lampoon. Neither of us was, and we hope the faculty will not be antagonistic to us.”

On the future of The Davidsonian, McLawhorn commented, “The Davidsonian is in fairly good shape as far as staff training is concerned. Our first objectives are to restore the paper’s credibility and to restore a working relationship.”