12—The Davidsonian—January 26, 1979

State Senator Arley Harris isn’t going to vote for ERA

By CHARLES ERWIN
Editor

RALEIGH, N.C.—Arley Harris is a politician’s politician, and that’s not to use the word in the post-Watergate sense.

The 65-year-old state senator and funeral director from Cleveland County said he’s never garnered less than 80 percent of the vote when it’s gotten down to counting ballots in North Carolina’s rural King’s Mountain district.

In his most recent political battle, Harris estimated he took about 85 percent of the vote. “If I ever get less than 75 percent my days as a public servant are over,” he boasted recently.

How’s he do it?

Well, for one thing, he said he listens to the voters in his district and takes what they have to tell him dead seriously.

That’s where ERA comes in.

Arley Harris has either sponsored, aided and abetted, or voted for just about every measure aimed at halting sex discrimination that has been introduced on the senate floor in this state for years.

“Since I’ve been here we’ve done everything in the world to change laws that were against women,” he explained. Harris estimated that in the last two years alone “probably 100” such laws have been successfully revised.

Arley Harris has liked women for 65 years. He respects them and wants to help them.

But he’s a stiff opponent of the Equal Rights Amendment and says he’ll do his best to see that it doesn’t get through the Senate during this session.

Why?

“Because 75 percent of the people in Gaston, Cleveland, Rutherford, and (the other counties in the King’s Mountain district) are against it. If I lived in Charlotte it’d be different, maybe,” he said.

“I don’t think the people particularly understand ERA. I don’t think the ones that are for it understand it. I don’t think the ones that are against it understand it. I’m not even sure I understand it,” he said.

“I’ve got no hang-up about bathrooms,” Harris explained. “Even the way things are now, you can get privacy... just go in and lock the door.

“I don’t have a hang-up about homosexuals and the chance that they could get married. As long as they keep it to themselves, they don’t bother me.”

“The reason I’m against it is because I’m a combat veteran of World War II, one of the ‘bastards of Bastion’ and I’d hate to think of my great-granddaughter in a combat zone.

“They say that won’t happen. But what’s to keep a young man who doesn’t want to serve from bringing the case before the Supreme Court?”

Harris doesn’t give the ERA much of a chance in the Senate this year. He said some of the people who voted for it have either died or been defeated. Some of the people who replaced them are opposed to it.

And for a politician’s politician it’s just as well.

“The day I announced my candidacy for the Senate the last time, I announced in the Shelby-Davis Store that I would vote against ERA and I led the Democratic ticket in the primary,” gleamed Harris.

The Buttery and Beanery
Unique and tasty sandwiches, savory steaks, salads, and much more.
Try a different and delicious approach to eating today.
Open daily 6 a.m. - 7 p.m. (except Tuesdays)
Sundays 10 a.m. - 7:30 p.m.
Phone 892-0263

Up and Coming On Campus

Thursday, Jan 25
7:00 Student Opening, “Ten Little Indians,” Drama Workshop
8:30 Outing Club film on Rock Climbing, 900 Room

Friday, Jan. 26
7&10 “Ten Little Indians” Drama Workshop

Saturday, Jan 27
9:00 ETC 50’s Sock Hop
10:00 Joel Shirk, 900 Room

Monday, Jan 29
8:15 Albee Directs Albee, “Zoo Story” and “American Dream” Love Auditorium

Tuesday, Jan. 30
7:00 Worship Service DCPC
8:15 Wind Ensemble Concert, Love Auditorium

Wednesday, Jan. 31
12:30 Open Luncheon, 900 Room
4:00 Senior Seminar on Job Strategies, Morrison Room

Thursday, Feb. 1
9:30&11 Cy Timmons, 900 Room

Saturday, Feb 3
9:00 Lloyd Hinson Orchestra, Gallery

Midwinters

Multi-talented Atlanta performer Cy Timmons will kick off Midwinters weekend Thursday night in the 900 Room.

It’s almost time for the second big weekend of the year: Midwinters! During next weekend, there are several Midwinters events lined up for your entertainment.

The weekend starts on Thursday with a performance by Cy Timmons in the 900 Room.

Timmons is from Atlanta, where he is part owner of the Cafe Erehwon and a regular performer at the Tree on Peachtree. Several Atlantans have told me that he is quite well known in the city for his guitar/vocal style, his hilarious Barry White imitation, and his unusual ability to do vocal imitations of flute, sax, and trombone.

According to David Huie, he may be “the new Josh White, Jr.”

A concert is slated for Friday night, but the artist hasn’t been announced yet. Because of scheduling difficulties, the Concert Committee members, despite frantic work, said they haven’t been able to finalize a contract.

On Saturday, the main event will be a formal dance in the Gallery, featuring the Lloyd Hinson Orchestra. Rumor has it that the orchestra is quite good, with a contemporary repertoire. Here’s your chance to dress to impress!

Of course there will also be the usual parties on the court—they’ll be listed next week.

Sports

Basketball
Saturday, Jan. 27, Furman, Home, 7:30
Wednesday, Jan 31, Appalachian State, Home, 7:30
Saturday, Feb. 3, Western Carolina, Away.

Women’s Basketball
Friday, Jan. 26, Davidson Community, Home, 7:00
Tuesday, Jan 30, Wingate, Away.
Thursday, Feb. 1, Bennett, Home, 7:00

Swimming
Friday, Jan 26, College of Charleston, Away.
Saturday, Jan. 27, Citadel, Away.
Tuesday, Jan 30, Johnson C. Smith, Away.
Friday, Feb. 2, Wm. and Mary, Away.
Saturday, Feb. 3, VMI at UNCC.

Wrestling
Saturday, Jan. 27, Washington and Lee Invitational, Away.
Friday, Feb. 2, Furman, Home, 7:30.
Saturday, Jan. 27, NC State, VMI, Richmond, Away.
Saturday, Feb. 3, Western Carolina Conference, Away.