Cats show promise on soccer field
By TED JONES
Staff Writer

“There it is," Coach Kremser calmly said as C.K. Nichols arced a beautiful corner kick in front of Alabama-Birmingham's goal.
Freshman Tom Schember proceeded to nod a perfect header into the net for what amounted to the game's only goal
in Davidson's 1-0 victory on Monday.

“That’s important," Kremser said calmly. Coach Kremser hasn’t had much chance to be calm his first two seasons. He’s had
to worry if he had enough competent players to play competitive soccer. Now he has a tough time deciding which
competent players to put on the field. He hasn't had to rant and rave and scream. He's been calm, and
it makes a difference. Suddenly, Davidson has three wins and no losses.

Success hasn’t come without hard work—the team arrived for preseason practice along with the football team, paying for their food
out of their own pocket. Three practices a day quickly pared off pounds and built up endurance, despite Kremser's repeating
how easy this year's preseason has been. But the players don’t feel things have been “easy” with two-mile runs, suicides,
half-field one-on-one, or breakaway drills. The team has worked hard to get in good physical shape.

The start of preseason found one senior able to go full-speed. Injuries and illness have been major foes for the
team. Two of Davidson's key defensive players—Captain and All-Southern Conference Kevin Robbins and sweeper Dan Robinson—have been grounded with injuries.
Yet these problems have given the younger players an opportunity to prove themselves, and they have.

Davidson defeated Catawba in its season opener Thursday 4-0. Bill Waher, a freshman, scored first with a beautiful turn and
shot just under the crossbar. A Catawba fullback graciously passed the ball past his goalie for the second goal. In
the second half, C.K. Nichols scored on a penalty kick after Hall Barnett, another freshman, got cut down in the
penalty box. Finally, Todd Lambert, yet another freshman, rocketed a direct kick which catapulted into the goal off the back
support.

With such a young team on the field, the lack of experience has been evident in the first two games.
The play has occasionally been sloppy and forced. But more often than not, good passes were made, runs were successful,
communication was good, and support was there. With Davidson's schedule, including Appalachian State, North Carolina, Duke, and N.C. State, these
things must be done all the time.

The first game found one senior and one junior in the starting lineup. Senior Captain Doug Schuessler had his first
full game shutout at goal against Alabama-Birmingham. Dedication is a key factor. So is being calm. With 18 more games
(11 at home), it’s a long road ahead. But according to a Davidson soccer player, "Rays of respect."

Marshall courteously forfeited Saturday’s game because of registration problems with foreign players. But to the Davidson player, a win is
a win. The seniors have had the pleasure of playing in only eight victories in the past three seasons.Builders Since
1925
384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30
MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

Fine Arts Building

Another outstanding job by BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

"The ability can be seen on the horizon."

Fitness program offered by basketball staff
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

The basketball staff of Davidson is offering a conditioning program through the physical education department at 10 a.m. each weekday
through October 10. The program began this Monday. The physical fitness and conditioning series is offered as PED 047 and
is conducted in the gym. Officials stress this is open to all students for physical fitness purposes only; basketball will
not be stressed.

M. A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

September 14, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

Hall Barnett outpaces defender in soccer team's convincing 4-0 victory over Catawba. (Brad Kerr)

Cross country offers "surprises"
By BUCK BRADBERRY
Staff Writer

The Davidson cross-country team, under coach Norman Koller, lost its opening dual meet to ACC powerhouse Duke Saturday in Durham.
The meet, an annual affair considered by both teams as a friendly tune-up for more important competition, involved some pleasant
surprises for the coach.

The team's top finisher, placing seventh overall, was junior co-captain Bart Landess. Davidson’s next four finishers exemplify Koller’s high hopes
for this year’s team, which he has termed “the best ever at Davidson.” The second finisher was Jeff Morrow, absent
from last year’s team because of work. The third and fifth squad places were taken by Danny Armistead and John
Rees, respectively, both showing improved performances since last year; the fourth spot was grabbed by promising freshman Jack Smith.

Koller’s optimism is easily understood when added to these five are John Hoots, Davidson's top placer in last year’s conference
meet, returning letterman Vasli Carperos, Terry Morrow, George Strobel, and Greg Burnard, still hampered by a recent virus. Also competing
for top spots this season are Howard Browne, Tom Clarke, Robert Frierson, John Robertson, and freshmen Joe Sloop and Garry
Sullivan.

Although Davidson fields the only cross-country team in the Southern Conference devoid of scholarship athletes, Koller anticipates a winning season
due to excellent depth, high morale, and a rigid training program dating back to August 27, when 12 runners, including
six lettermen, attended preseason training camp, averaging fifteen miles of tough running each day. The team has continued training up
to and through the Duke meet, readying themselves for the Stone Mountain Invitational in Atlanta this Saturday. The team will
be in a dual meet against Georgia State at the Invitational, which boasts over 800 runners from many schools.

“It will be a big disappointment to me if we lose,” says Koller, “since we defeated Georgia State twice last
year.” He also expects to equal all of last year’s five wins in only three weeks. If the team accomplishes
that feat, then a winning season will be nearly clinched.

WRITERS WANTED
Mecklenburg Gazette wants writers for free-lance assignments. Payment on column-inch basis. Good opportunity to get into print. Tom Williams, Editor,
892-8809
