: DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914

Crime and Consequences

Several surprising sentiments have arisen concerning the recent crime wave in Davidson. Many people bemoan the fact that students now
have to lock their doors, walk in groups at night, and actually lock up their bicycles. But these precautions are
positive, and not just because they will lower the crime rate. Davidson has had a rather unrealistic idea about crime
for quite a while. First of all, it is not true that there was no crime during all the years
that doors stayed unlocked and coeds walked around alone at night. There was some crime, and more importantly, even then
we were taking a risk by being reckless. Now we are being realistic.

Also, it appears that most of the thieving is being done by outsiders. A rise in this type of crime,
then, should not make students suspicious of hallmates or afraid of fellow students. Davidson, in isolation, is not completely free
of crime, but outsiders are free to come in and that is what is causing the current problems. In our
former euphoria, we were acting less than responsibly. Good bicycles need good locks, people walking alone should always be cautious,
and rooms containing any sort of valuables are rooms that are attractive to thieves. We must be more aware and
more responsible.

This crime wave has also pointed up another problem that deserves our attention—rumors. The stories that flew around campus last
week were incredible: a man was in the 900 Room, that man was Martin Borman (Hitler’s right-hand man), evil men
are everywhere. Davidson is such a small, close-knit community that rumors fly fast; but rumors here cut deep for the
same reason. Our familiarity also allows us to verify or discredit rumors easily. A case in point: Several far-flung stories
were circulating around the eating houses earlier this week. They spread rapidly, and, as rumors are prone to do, grew
more bizarre with each repetition. It is not surprising that an academic community would pick up on such titillating stories;
but it is surprising that none of the budding scholars thought to check out their sources. Finally, a female student
phoned the Dean of Student’s office and asked about the alleged incident; that story was dead the minute she hung
up the phone. This checking up on facts is so simple and so vital. The facts need to be spread
so proper precautions can be taken, but proper precautions must be taken in getting the facts. Ask before you speak.

Finally, the encroachment of crime forces us to realize that the “real” world is moving into our rather isolated one.
The new shopping center, the coming condominiums, and other structures will change the composition of the community and the college.
Ours will be a richer and more diverse environment, but with the advantages of the bigger city come the bigger
city problems. To deal with our expanding surroundings we need to emphasize two more R’s—responsibility and respect. We must take
better care of our belongings and more care with our conversations.

—Merideth C. Durden

I HOPE ZEY VILL ACCEPT my MEEL CARD

The Campus Forum

Finance, Personnel, and Development has decided not to hold an open meeting to receive requests from the faculty, staff, and
student body concerning the life of Brian.

James W. Altizer ’81

To the Editor:

Ears ho! Christians and Agnostics alike! For I have seen that wondrous spectacle that doth enrage and delight the multitudes
(and for a mere $3.50). I am of course referring to Monty Python’s “Life of Brian.” And I find British
humor to be much more intellectual than American humor. The intellectuality (not humorous in and of itself) derives its humor
from the incongruity. “Holy Grail’s” running theme was a stupid king in a struggle against pragmatic and very intelligent peasants.
It is a subtle humor that is not imitated in the U.S. Ours is a humor of the punch line.
Little or no thought is required for its appreciation. Personally, I prefer an Eric Idle to a Bob Hope any
day.

So what then is the point of this movie? Was it made to blaspheme the Lord? I think not. Jesus,
and for that matter Joseph and Mary too, were pictured no less than divine. The protest arises from the viewer’s
interpretation ofthe events pictured, a good example of which is Brian’s crucifixion at the end of the movie. I myself
am not a devoutly religious person, although I do believe in the Bible. This scene, however, is very awkward and
is the most controversial part of the movie. Brian has a pained look on his face when the cross is
raised. His friends have deserted him, and onlookers taunt him. One does indeed catch his feelings of despair. If one
has had any Christian training at all, there is an unavoidable tendency to subconsciously place the visual stimulus in its
proper, learned context. One cannot help but see Jesus on the Cross, if only for an instant. This is the
source of the awkwardness of this scene. The scene itself is funny, or at least tries to be. But deep
down inside you don’t think it’s right to laugh. You do anyway. The General Cinema Corporation was wrong in canceling
the movie. I would expect that especially here at Davidson, one’s right to one’s own opinion is nothing less than
sacred itself. When my right to judge for myself what I should and should not see is taken away, I
must react in defiance. I respect Protestors’ rights to protest. They must respect my rights.

Last week’s article entitled ‘Faculty Compensation Increases in Dollars but Decreases against Inflation’ was a very interesting one on several
counts. Although I am in no position to evaluate whether or not the faculty deserves a pay raise, there were
several comments which aroused my concern. A remark made by Professor David Kaylor is the one which particularly interested me
as I will be joining the teaching ranks within a couple of weeks, following my graduation this Thanksgiving. Kaylor seems
to feel that an “unappreciated faculty” will not be able to separate the pay issue from their teaching job. “These
kinds of feelings inevitably affect the performance of people in their jobs.” Can you imagine the effect on the quality
of education in the United States if such an attitude pervaded the teaching ranks? If the faculty does deserve a
pay raise, then I urge them to strive for better compensation. However, until a decision is reached on this issue,
ill feelings between the faculty and administration cannot serve to condone a below-par effort in the classroom. Once a teacher
enters the classroom, it is his duty to give the students the benefit of all he has to offer and
therefore cannot let his quality of teaching decline because of issues raised outside the classroom. Although all are not in
agreement with the present pay scale, there are many fine professors at Davidson who would not let this matter affect
the quality of their teaching. If it does, the quality of education at Davidson will indeed suffer. Hopefully, the feelings
of Professor Kaylor reflect his own views and not those of the rest of the faculty. The desired solution would
be for the administration and faculty to look at this issue with an open mind, so that the caliber of
education that Davidson offers will retain its standard of excellence.

Mike Sheridan ’80

Budget

To the Editor:

The Advisory Council on the Davidson College budget for the next fiscal year. We believe a more effective procedure would
be for interested persons to communicate in writing directly with the Council. We ask that you submit any group or
individual budget requests, or any questions whatsoever to the three student representatives on the Council: George Strobel, David Smith, or
Mike Munger. Feel free to communicate to us your opinions concerning budget priorities. We will give all requests careful consideration
and make your positions known to the Board of Trustees. Please submit all requests by Wednesday, November 14 at 5
p.m., so we will have time to act.

Mike Munger ’80
George Strobel ’80
David Smith ’80

Safety

To the Editor:

Why do the Davidson College Security Police feel it necessary to warn freshmen women and Rusk women about a suspected
rapist reportedly seen around campus and not Emanon women, PAX women, ATO women, F&M women, ETC women, and independent women?
Also, it wouldn’t be a bad idea to warn all students, male and female, so that everyone is alerted to
the possibility of danger.

Concerned non-Rusk women
