| Earl MacCormac, as everyone better knows, but then, how can we know that we know... oh, well, we think he is the head of the philosophy department. At least, he thinks he is, and that's all that’s important anyway, right?

Earl really does have something to prove. Philosophy majors don't get into med school. (Just ask John Carlson.) Other than that, the main purpose of his classes is to enable him to find enough handball partners to last him through the year. Earl “the Pearl” is, to borrow a concept from that MacCormacesque pomposity William F. Buckley, “God and Yale at Davidson.” But it has to be Davidson, since electrical engineers can’t make it at northern schools, and his matchbox car, mayor wife, utter arrogance, and Goodwill suits would never make it at Oxford or Cambridge, or even East Carolina.

Maydole

What must be considered first about Robert Maydole is his unique combination of persuasions. Prof. Maydole capitalizes upon the rigor of logic and the befuddlement of existentialism to produce a remarkable blend which characterizes his classroom style and punditry. (See especially his classic, “Existential Crisis and How to Find the Door,” Body, Vol. 7, no. 2. Maydole’s suggestion to “look in the corner” has been considered by many to be the most original contribution to the field in recent history. Others have referred to it as a “masterpiece of analytical reasoning.”)

In the classroom, however, Maydole’s provocative comments and unusual teaching style have often polarized his students into two camps of opinions about him. The former insist that he is incomprehensible, and indeed, does not himself understand what he has just said. These are the Wittgenstinians who offer the evidence of his frequent mental cramps and the fact that he has frequently been seen wandering Chambers’ halls muttering “whereof we cannot speak...” in support of their views. Others insist that Maydole, more than any other member of the department, possesses a brilliance and intuitive strength, which qualifies him as a first-rate philosopher and major intellect. Skeptics conclude, however, that Robert Maydole is merely indulging his whim to intuit percepts without concepts and charge that he has nothing substantive to say.

In all events, taking a course with Robert Maydole has become a temporary impossibility since his rapid classroom departure on Oct. 1st when the students in his symbolic logic class rose against him chanting “Wally, Wally, Wally, Wally, Wally, Wally...”. According to eyewitness reports, Maydole was so shaken by this event that he leaped from a second-story window, discovering to his dismay that he had misjudged this world’s possibilities and the net wasn’t there. Until he is located, Maydole’s classes have been taken over by Earl MacCormac (see Earl the Pearl). Reports have placed Doctor Maydole in Rome, seeking conceptual clarity at the Vatican.

Stell

Lance Stell prides himself on his unusual philosophical viewpoint, which is that of sadism. This view apparently stems from Stell’s favorite axiom (which by the way is absolutely true, as are all of Stell’s statements), “Everything is shit.” After taking one of his courses, you will certainly agree that this statement is at least partially true.

The area in which this idea is most readily observed is grading. Stell seems to view himself as conducting a one-man war against grade inflation. Stell is one of the few Davidson professors who frankly admit, “I enjoy failing people.”

Stell is one Davidson professor who is truly different, or at least hopes that we will think so. This fact is best illustrated by that most central of all personality traits, clothing. Partly through Stell’s earnest desire to be different, and partly through his...

Young

Put a petition under J.J.’s nose and hear him exclaim “I'll sign, I'll sign!”

Cartmill

Physical Education

Has a two-line entry in Who's Who in American Locker Rooms.

Physics

Whit

No relation to the Marquis de Sade.