_ THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914 _

Give Them More

By the time a professor has been at Davidson long enough to be up for tenure, he has invariably been
able to make enough friends to be sure there'll be quite a stir if he doesn't get tenure. Because of
this, and the general problems that arise in evaluating people, almost everyone who gets a job teaching here winds up
with a life-long contract. The only realistic way to build an excellent faculty is to make sure that the people
who are originally offered teaching jobs at Davidson are the best in their fields. The only way to ensure this
is to offer them more money than other schools. Offering them less money would eventually destroy Davidson. A suggestion for
the Trustees: give the professors their requested 10 percent pay raise.

Letters: Political Insensitivity

To the Editor:

I have not written to the Davidson in the seven years I have been back at Davidson, but two different
items in this past week's paper really have caused me concern. The first was the article by the four professors
criticizing Athletics at Davidson. I have a great deal of respect for these men in their areas of expertise, but
react with absolute amazement at their naivete and ignorance in athletic matters. I could answer several of their charges succinctly:
1) The offending football players have been dealt with individually as should be the case (surely these professors are not
condemning the mass for the actions of a few). 2) The new famous Sports Illustrated article alleged no NCAA infractions
and was recognized to be totally inane by all knowledgeable people. 3) The result of the computer and professors on
sabbatical this Spring term. (Will these four professors admit that if each professor would teach three hours a day instead
of two, that everyone could get every course he wanted? I really don’t advocate this, but it sure would help.)
How can you de-emphasize athletics any more at Davidson? Only basketball has grant-in-aids. The rest of us (minor sports) take
what we can get, and do the best we can. How can you de-emphasize that?

But the item that bothered me most was the casual reference in the editorial column mentioning that, “Both (SGA candidates
for president) said that they want to see Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill fired.” There was no further explanation of their
reasons, but again I must ask, “Where do they get their information to call for such a move?” There have
been instances where I have not agreed with Mr. Cartmill, notably in the area of budgets. But I know he
is working with an inadequate budget for intercollegiate programs himself. This one thing must be realized: the man is an
ethical, moral, sincere man who has the best interests of Davidson College and its students at heart. A great many
things he is blamed for can be directly attributed to lack of funds for facilities or coaches. And this is
an area he has no direct control over. In all my dealings with him, whether they be in the areas
of facilities, physical education, or tennis team, his one priority has been consistent: the best interests of Davidson College and
its students.

The Campus Forum Tradition Reborn

To the Editor:

About two years ago I wrote a letter to both the Update and The Davidsonian questioning whether the totalDemise of
Davidson was as eminent as the happenings (at that time) so suggested. At that time the football and basketball programs
were about as low as they could get, but my real concern was in the area of the academic shortcomings,
based on the college’s performance in the state "College Bowl" competition. At that time Davidson had finished either last or
next to last in competition with East Carolina, UNC, and N.C. State. My questions concerning the academic capabilities and standards
may have been somewhat premature, for as Mr. Lloyd so ably pointed out, the competition was not only based on
depth and breadth of knowledge, but also on quickness of response. My only question to this would be based on
whether or not he was saying that Davidson students were not quick thinkers.

As fate would have it, in the two years since I wrote that letter I have moved around quite a
bit, but a few months ago returned to North Carolina to live and work. In the past few months I
have been able to observe a rebirth of surface, bringing on a ray of hope and expectation for the future.
In regard to the academic standards, I can honestly say that it looks as though things are on the upside
also. In the Charlotte Observer, I see where the Davidson College Bowl team has had outstanding success at the recent
regional competition in Knoxville, Tennessee, placing first and bettering competitors from 10 other colleges and universities, including UNC, N.C. State,
and East Carolina, and winning a trip to Miami for the National Finals.

While I admit that athletics and College Bowl activities are but a small part of what Davidson College has to
offer its students, success or failure in these types of activities are what the majority of the public hear and
see, and are the things that come to mind when they think of Davidson College. While those of us who
have ever attended Davidson recognize the quality of the teachings and research, the everyday newspaper reader does not and cannot
relate to or appreciate the percentages of medical or law school acceptances of Davidson students, nor can they know of
all the public service activities both students and faculty perform day in and day out in the Davidson community, the
Charlotte area, and even beyond.

It is important to maintain outwardly what we as involved members know—that Davidson is an institution of pride, and it
is one that does not succeed in bringing you to your knees. I hope that you continue to uphold the
traditions which we all want to see carried on.

Edward L. Womack, B.S. '75

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200
words) and clarity. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office.

Editor: Ba Peeptes
Executive Editor: Martin Hunter
Business Manager: Ralph Lasley
Managing Editor: Dennis McLawhorn
Senior News Editor: Meredith Durden
Senior Features Editor: Barry Sachtjen
Senior Sports Editor: George Murdaugh
Senior Opinion Editor: Rick Jenkins
News Editor: Jim Garrett
News Editor: Ann Garner
Features Editor: Bert Mobley
Sports Editor: Sheri Gravett
Opinion Editor: Margaret Jackson
News Graphics Editor: Margaret Hunter
Features Graphics Editor: Diane Odor
Sports Graphics Editor: Ann Sheatter
Opinion Graphics Editor: Lam Morton
Advertising Manager: Karsan Long
Circulation Manager: Dunya Boylston
Production Manager: Ann Garner
Research Director: David Cadenhead
Art Editor:
