THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Never a dull moment

There is never a dull moment around here, and this school year has been an eventful one. Davidson has enjoyed its share of controversies ranging from the transition within WDAV to the question of self-scheduled exams to the famed Sports Illustrated story on basketball recruiting. The situations surrounding each event have been extremely varied. Yet each has come down to the same bottom line: the question of honor and its role in the everyday dealings of the college community. The result has been an increased awareness and growing emphasis within the college community of the importance of the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility.

The Honor Code first came into the limelight with the faculty proposal to do away with self-scheduled exams. It was then we all realized there was a problem—in practice or just in expressed concern. But since that time, a campaign within each facet of the college has been waged to make us all conscious of the vital nature of the Honor Code at Davidson. It has been successful. We have all pulled in the slack. And there have been several consequences. One outgrowth centers on the reaffirmation of mutual concern between faculty and students. Another deals with trying to clarify grey areas in such procedures as taking reviews and exams (see page 2). Altogether, it reflects a lessening of the ominous “student apathy” to campus affairs that has been noted so often in the past.

We are not perfect. But in comparing ourselves to colleges and universities across the nation, the strength of Davidson’s Honor Code looks good. A recent report by the Carnegie Council on Policy Studies in Higher Education (The Chronicle of Higher Education, 23 April) found signs of “ethical decay” in a nation-wide study of colleges and universities. The Council cited several examples: “Cheating by students on academic assignments, misuse by students of public/financial aid, theft and destruction of valuable university property (most specifically, library books and journals), inflation of grades by faculty members, and competitive awarding of academic credits and degrees by some institutions for insufficient and inadequate academic work.”

Basically, the council’s concern stems from the growing scarcity of students in the 1980s and 1990s. They fear this might “lead some students to take even greater advantage of the situation and to make some colleges even more reluctant to insist on ethical conduct by students and even more likely to engage in improper conduct themselves.” If we accept this report as the national trend, it should be clear that Davidson is stubbornly holding its ground. And evidently, the sense of honor instilled by Davidson’s academic atmosphere is responsible. Cheating does go on. But a strong honor court deals with the offenses. (Note News at a Glance for this year’s statistics.) As also reported this week, Davidson students receiving financial aid have a very low default record on loans. And although problems concerning book loss continue to plague the library staff and college community, Dr. Park reports a relatively low rate of book loss in the advertisement he included on page eight.

Of course, our records are not totally unblemished. Yet in evaluating our overall actions and reactions to the offenses and threats to the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility throughout the year, the awareness we have developed has only sharpened our sense of responsibility and honor.

—Ann Garner (See ya NEXT YEAR)

The Campus Forum

Perspective

To the Editor:

This letter is in anticipation of the yearly plethora of post-Old South letters. The majority of these declarations are against Old South and all its trappings, and this one is in agreement with such pronouncements. However, it is my hope that I can temper these arguments somewhat by benefit of my perspective.

I am a brother of Sigma chapter, Kappa Alpha Order, Davidson College. I work, eat, and recreate with the guys in the KA House and in preface to any of my views I must state emphatically that when Old South uniforms are donned the wearer's soul does not go through any kind of metamorphosis. Old South is a big party with a gimmick. No more, no less. The complaint from many brothers is that they don’t mean any harm by the Old South function and nothing could be more true. But the fact remains that there are disquieting reactions to the presence of Confederate uniforms and rebel yells. These feelings must be respected by the KA’s here. When we promenade around Patterson Court, the campus, or at some plantation off-campus, we represent Davidson College.Though intentions may be good, there are certain aspects which can’t help but be drawn from this presentation of the Old South. What are these aspects? Namely, one—slavery. Brothers argue, “We don’t give a darn about slavery; that’s not part of the weekend or of our beliefs.” But until you’ve been black for 20 years, how can you understand?! Ask a Jew to forget the Holocaust—it’s no exaggeration. Memories of the black struggle in the Civil War bring to mind the same struggle blacks experienced in the 1960s as well as the struggle they still face today. That fight for rights, respect, and dignity must be acknowledged. Maybe we can’t understand the exact feelings a black student may have upon seeing another student in a plantation owner's outfit, but we can appreciate the fact that it does create a disquieting within him. Tradition is an overworked excuse for the perpetuation of many devices in our school and in our society. Tradition is not reason enough to perpetuate an event that drags out the painful memories of one hundred years ago and of yesterday; it is not reason enough to perpetuate Old South.

Richard Terry ‘81

Curiosity

To the Editor:

Ann Garner and Dennis McLawhorn took over The Davidsonian when the paper was in a jam. Few know the difficulties they had to face. Now, five weeks later, their editorship is spent. And I would just like to say that I believe they have done a good job.

Charles Erwin

Gratitude

To The Editor:

As we prepare to leave Davidson for the summer, for a job or graduate school, we would like to reflect for a moment on the “nature” of Davidson students. In talking with many of our peers, we have discovered a lack of intellectual curiosity as well as a lack of moral and social questioning. Many of us accept much too readily the values and beliefs of our parents, our peers, and our professors. When was the last time you questioned your parent’s beliefs? When did you last question your friend's values or your professor’s lecture? Asking is part of learning! There are so many intelligent and affluent students here, why, when there is the ability and the means, don’t we challenge questionable, “traditional” beliefs and try to change those things which are unjust? Few students, for example, turned out to protest Dr. Spencer’s decision to take WDAYV away from the students (although we sympathized with those that did protest the decision). The president might have been more reluctant had we, the students, shown more interest. And why do many students continually refuse to show any sort of interest in events outside their academic and social lives? Our library is filled with newspapers from all parts of the world, yet few students are willing to discuss national and international affairs. What happens in the “real world” affects us all, even in Davidson. It is our responsibility as intelligent citizens to be actively aware of the world around us, otherwise it will pass us by. Life does not begin and end with reviews, papers, and dates. There is more to what one learns than is in a book or professor's lecture. How will one ever know that there is more unless he or she asks? What we are calling for is not rebellion or radicalism, rather intellectual, social, and moral curiosity which seeks to discern the truth.

Linda Brooks Talbott '79
Carolyn L. Watt '80

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200 words) and clarity.

Ann Garner
Dennis McLawhorn
Co-editors

Gus Peeples, Executive Editor
Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
George Murdaugh, Senior Opinion Editor
Meredith Durden, Senior Features Editor
Barry Sachyjen, Senior Sports Editor
Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Jim Garrett, News Editor
Shen Gravett, Opinion Editor
Jean Soracco, Features Editor
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor
Margaret Jackson, Opinion Graphics Editor
Mike Britt, News Graphics Editor
Diane Odom, Sports Graphics Editor
Donya Boytston, Production Manager
Larry Morton, Advertising Manager
Karen Long, Circulation Manager
Marshall F. Packard, Production Associate
Gregg Swader, Photography Director
Gary Partin, Art Editor
Mark Hess, Asst. Executive Editor
Mark Barrett, Asst. News Editor
Jane Asst. Features Editor
Rob Asst. Sports Editor
Howard Browne, Asst. News Graphics Editor
Karen Sandin, Asst. Opinion Graphics Editor
Marion Robertson, Asst. Features Graphics Editor
Anita Doss, Asst. Production Manager
Beverly Smith, Asst. Production Manager
Bruce Lipsitt, Asst. Circulation Manager
Phil Howerton, Asst. Photography Director
Bill Purcell, Asst. Photography Director