6—The Davidsonian—May 4, 1979

Davidson honors All-Star John Gerdy

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Last week was a momentous one for John Gerdy. The senior basketball standout was honored by Davidson College for his
outstanding athletic achievements. He also left to join a U.S. All-Star basketball team that will tour Europe during May.

At Davidson’s annual basketball awards dinner Tuesday night, Gerdy became the second Davidson athlete to have his jersey retired. His
No. 33 joins No. 44 of Fred Hetzel, Davidson basketball star of the 1960s and the school’s second leading scorer
behind Gerdy. Gerdy was also named the team’s most valuable player for the third consecutive year.

During Friday’s convocation service, Gerdy was honored as the recipient of the Tommy Peters Memorial Award. This award is given
each year to the top athlete “who best exemplifies the Davidson spirit in intercollegiate competition.”

Gerdy was not present to receive the award, however, because he had left Thursday for Cincinnati to practice with other
members of the United States Intercontinental Cup team. The team, sponsored by the Amateur Basketball Association of the United States
and coached by Cincinnati’s Ed Badger, will play a series of games in France, Russia, Czechoslovakia, Israel, and Yugoslavia from
May 5-19.

BB&B predict the future!

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

Warning: Some people may find this column offensive, vulgar, and even slanderous. However, it was not written for those people.
You know who you are, and you do not have our permission to read this article.

We thought it would be fun this week to look at where this year’s senior class will be in fifteen
years. Don’t worry if you were left out—it can only mean that we like you, or that you will be
doing something respectable.

Bill Barnett—convicted of white collar political crime.
Sollie Foy—took on I-40 and lost.
Chris Loeb—last seen dragging David Vaughn up the corporate ladder.
Erwin Carter—toking black at NCNB.
Russ Folger—took an incomplete in the army.
Rob Perz—arrested and convicted of bestiality.
George Bright—Assistant Dean of Students at Davidson.
Sam Crawford—Weatherman for WBT Evening News.
Tim Goodell—choking his geef in the Senate.
David Barnard—watching Timmy.
David Vaughn—Al McGuire's announcing partner.
Andrew “Lard” McDonald—found in a church steeple with a high-powered sniper's rifle and scope.
Parks “Sex” Neisler—Jack Nicklaus’ caddy’s friend.
Melody Wilder—working at the Krystal.
Johnny “Wad” Madden—side show attraction.
Kevin Doherty—first tenured student at Davidson.
Margie Robertson—unemployed.
Amenda Hall—a rich New York socialite.
Pat Dulany—a championship wrestler on channel five.
Phil Duncan—convicted of mail order fraud.
Lyan Langley—selling cigarettes in a topless bar.
Jamie Watt—joined the Salvation Army after an incident at Glade Valley.
John Gerdy—bartender at Buck's Tavern.
Rick Bateman—owner of a blue
Percy Badhens—sheriff in a rural Alabama county.
Steve Sellars—Percy's deputy.
Carter Tedd—Assistant basketball coach at Dobyns-Bennett.
Pat Hickert—lost.
Tom Ruby—Assistant football coach under Ed Farrell.
Hans Watford—Leader of the Fourth Reich.
Glen Darbyshire—history professor at Davidson.
Clifton Flynn—NBA Commissioner.
Carl McPhail—Barnett’s attorney.
Sam Currin—heir apparent to a Lookout Mt. fortune.
Stedman Lyles—millionaire, owner of a shrimp boat fleet off the coast of Colombia.
Everybody else—who cares?

In the IMAC news this week, the Fourskins downed the Slacksters 9-8 in a game that was played about five
feet off the ground. Graeme Thomson finally came out of his five-year—that’s right, five-year—slump and got a hit. Airborn Bongdexter
gave up 74 earned runs in the top of the fourth inning, and later when he was asked what happened,
he replied, “I know we have only played two innings so far, I’m positive I’ve only pitched twice.” Wrong again.

In the tourney look for anyone but the favorites to win. To save time, H.D. took all the softball teams
with winning records and put them in one bracket and all the other teams and put them in another bracket.
Look for an interesting tournament to say the least.

We had a letter this week from Canon Carr, and we thought if we printed it everyone would understand just
what Dear Speakers of Truth:

I would like to use your column as a means of expressing my reasons for leaving Davidson College in the
recent past. It seems that much is misunderstood on this subject, and I would like to clarify my reasons. I
had a severe case of stage fright and knew that if I had to speak the next day that I
would have barfed on all the people in the front row. Please accept my apologies for leaving.

—Reverend Burgess Carr
Dear Rev.:

International basketball star John Gerdy drives to the basket during one of his last games in Johnston Gym. (Gregg Strader)

Live Band on Weekends

Disco 115

Pool Tournament on Mondays
$25.00 prize

Foosball on Tuesdays

Happy Hour: 4-7 p.m.
draft beer - 20 cents

Located on Highway 115
3 miles south of Cornelius

hours: 11 a.m. - 1 a.m., 6 days a week
