Slater’s Secret Recipes Revealed
Mike Mason

“I’m so hungry, I could eat a horse.” And if you go to Richards, you probably will. Or some other
equally convenient mammal—anyone seen Butch lately? In fact, speculation as to the dubious origin of much of Slater’s repertoire of
culinary delights is a major topic of conversation at any table. So, in a valiant attempt to restore abdominal order,
here are some brilliant pieces of deductive logic produced in past weeks concerning the ancestry and background of those controversial
entrees and suspect desserts. Logic is about all we have left, since, of course, taste has proved to be no
help at all in determining the nature of the substances consumed.

The entrees themselves pose an enormous question. Isn’t it amazing what they can do with plastics nowadays? Who would’ve thought
that the same stuff that makes Saran Wrap could wind up as a semi-edible main dish? (Anyone who’s eaten it,
that’s who.) The big tip-off here was the meatloaf, which has proved to be among the most flexible and pliant
substances on earth. What other matter do you know of that, in a single playful repast, may be turned into
a merry-go-round, an AM/FM digital clock radio, and a passable reproduction of Emily Bronte’s original manuscript of Wuthering Heights, with
just an artistic twist of the fork? Mealtimes can be fun.

Another epicurean fantasy long shrouded in intrigue is the exact nature and source of the brownies. They were long believed
to be ceramic, since their texture is not noticeably different from that of the plates on which they rest. More
perceptive observation, however, has revealed their true source. Just think, where else have you noticed that same bony texture? That’s
right, the icing on top of the cake. Now, consider the fact that the icing grows thicker every day—why, all
that needs to be done is to chisel off the first eight sedimentary layers of icing at the appropriate time,
and there you have them—brownies galore. And who would have thought our little ol’ food service capable of such ingenuity?
(Anybody who’s eaten them, that’s who.)

The salad dressing cleverly disguised as “Thousand Island,” however, is still posing analytic problems to the best minds of the
freshman class. A convincing case, though, has been made by those who purport that it is a spinach pizza-flavored combination
of common campus substances, some of which may be found growing in sidewalk cracks outside Chambers. Who would've thought our
food service would perform such synthetic miracles? (Anybody who’s eaten it, that’s who.)

Blame It On The Ratio
Bob Gould

As an institution of higher learning and intellectual stimulation, Davidson College ranks right up there with Harvard and Stanford. As
an institution of social intercourse and gala parties, however, Davidson falls somewhere in between Attica State Prison and Pope Paul’s
Jesuit Monastery. Davidson has a problem; there just aren’t enough women on campus. That is just fine and dandy if
you intend to be a pre-celibacy major. But what about the rest of us?

Davidson’s problem, the paucity of female students, influences all Davidson students. The effects of this problem are obvious enough. Davidson
males must fiercely compete for the “best looking coeds.” Such competition does not promote male friendships. Davidson females, on the
other hand, often find themselves surrounded by seven gaping football players at parties. This makes the women feel uncomfortable. Many
coeds, especially freshmen, have devised a way of coping with this problem; they hang around in packs of eight.

Freshmen women, especially the “foxes,” are put on display at Davidson. The demand for these neophytes, unfortunately, outstrips their supply.
Upperclassmen are anxious to cull this new crop and naturally give the “freshwomen” a lot of attention. As a result,
sophomore girls are ignored and feel jealous of the girls in Richardson. The problem is further compounded by freshman boys
who must compete with upperclassmen for these same girls in Richardson. Upperclassmen, however, feel that they should have first pick
of any girls. No one is happy.

At best, the two-to-one male/female ratio means that two-thirds of the guys will not get dates. The net result is
social frustration and sexual anxiety among Davidson students.

How can the Davidson community alleviate this problem? Ideally, the percentage of incoming freshman girls should be increased every year.
Liquidation of some members of the Davidson male population could create a more balanced population. Some Polynesian tribes of the
Munay Islands recognized the importance of maintaining the...Delicate balance of nature and their community. Mother Nature’s one man-to-one woman ratio
was of the utmost importance. If this ratio was not perfect, these trips would sacrifice the members of whichever sex
was over-abundant until the one-to-one correlation was re-achieved. By supporting a two-to-one male/female ratio, Davidson has thrown Mother Nature a
curve ball. Unlike the Polynesians, however, to exterminate male students at Davidson would be an immoral and impractical solution. Importing
females from nearby schools for Davidson parties may solve some immediate problems, like getting guys dates, but only prolongs the
real problem. When the “Queenies” or Converse girls leave campus every Saturday night, Davidson College still has a two-to-one ratio.
Besides, Davidson coeds do not like to compete with these girls and feel hostile towards them.

The best solution to our problem, the dearth of Davidson coeds, is really quite simple. The Director of Admissions should
admit more freshmen females each year, and at the same time, should phase out freshman males. As it stands now,
many female applicants are not accepted, even though they are more qualified. In a few years, the percentage of women
would be significantly higher. Everyone would be happy. It is up to the Davidson College Board of Trustees and President
Spencer to take some affirmative action on our problem. A chain is only as strong as its weakest link; a
college is only as strong as its weakest constituent. Let's upgrade Davidson’s social atmosphere.

As it stands now, Davidson is like a confine. They have long been a source of concern to certain members
of the community. Although both students and faculty have addressed by the administration and trustees. Answers, when offered, tend to
be vague and unhelpful; the budget statement published last year by the Update is a recent example. The advent of
a new football season makes this “dialogue” again relevant, not because football poses a threat to Davidson, but because the
program as it is now structured seems to be unsuited to this college. One is justified in questioning whether the
scale of Davidson’s involvement in football can be defended in light of other financial needs which are vital to educational
quality. The following questions are offered in the interest of continuing the dialogue and in the hope that, to the
extent that they are valid concerns, they will lead to a critical review of current priorities.

1. How can Davidson justify spending some $40,000 for football recruiting (Update, April 1979), a sum greater than the $24,500
(quoted by White's predecessor at Southwestern last January) which Southwestern at Memphis spends on its entire football program?
2. Why has the student-faculty ratio at Davidson been allowed to rise to 14:1? Could the $234,000 deficit incurred by
the football program (Update, April 1979) not be put to better use rescuing the ratio?
3. Is it not true that the heavy recruiting practiced by the football team might tend to bring some students
to this heavily academic college for totally non-academic reasons? Is the admissions department required to spend any of its budget
on football recruiting? Why is discrimination practiced in the awarding of financial aid to football players?
4. The salaries of Davidson faculty members have failed to keep pace with inflation (Davidsonian, March 23, 1979). Is the
same true of the athletic budget?
5. Can the existence of an expensive intercollegiate athletic program at a small liberal arts college be justified? Specifically, must
Davidson compete in Division 1-AA, which is composed predominantly of schools with enrollments of over 14,000? Must we schedule opponents
whose distances from campus generate large travel expenses and field a team so large that it represents one-twelfth of the
student body?
6. What justification is there for special privileges allowed the football team, such as unlimited food at Slater and subsidization
of Pop Films?
7. Is it not true that serious recurring course registration problems could be partially alleviated by a growth in the
faculty? And could this growth not be accomplished in part by a reduction in the football deficit?

Football is not in itself an evil, and this column in no way intends to advocate the eradication of the
sport from Davidson. I write, rather, from the position that the college’s expenditures on football far outweigh that which can
rationally be accepted. We are a school dedicated above all to academic excellence. I hope to stimulate...
