Decision processes, together with the day-to-day duties of the Dean and the careful planning necessary for the Code, Zimmermann required
nearly a year and a half to complete the Code. And its final form was not only his work but
also that of the faculty. It is unfortunate that tenure candidates received codified guidelines for tenure policy only two months
before their final evaluation. Anyone who questions the decisions in their individual cases is granted the opportunity to discuss their
dismissal with the Dean of the Faculty, according to President Spencer. The evaluation process is still far from complete. The
role of students in making tenure decisions is still unclear. President Spencer would like to see a faculty tenure committee
established, composed of fully tenured professors who would play an important role in the process. Although professors cannot and should
not have the final say in tenure determinations, their grounds for complaint are greatly weakened by refusing to take a
more forceful, active role, especially those with full tenure. These and other factors must be resolved. However, a process that
shapes the whole character and worth of Davidson’s future must of necessity be a slow and careful one. Unlike this
editorial, it cannot be done overnight.

Koller Continued from page 1

The old system was “anti-consumer” because it required action by those not wishing to participate. Dean of Students Will Terry
pointed out that Davidson was collecting money for a private agency since the funds were sent to state headquarters of
PIRG in Durham. Spencer said he had received complaints about the funding procedure from both parents and students. “There was
an undercurrent of dissatisfaction last year with the way PIRG was being funded,” said SGA President John Jackson. Spencer emphasized
that the future of PIRG funding is up to the students themselves. The deciding factor will be the referendum regarding
PIRG this fall. “If the student body wants (the old funding system), it will be reinstated,” said Spencer. “It is
their choice.”

Davidson PIRG chairman Susan Marynowski said she was upset both by the action itself and the way it was carried
out. “The first time I found out about the change was when I opened my bill,” she said. “They have
never sent any notification to me or our staff members.” Comptroller Robert Davidson said the local chapter of PIRG had
been informed last spring that there might be a change in the billing procedure. “I told them that this is
all up in the air and (the fee) may not be on the bill,” he said, adding, “We will continue
to include PIRG literature in the mailing to students which contains the bill for the year, and we'll give PIRG
any money received to Davidson PIRG. But we feel we have no obligation to the state organization.”

The financing system was “never intended to be a forever thing,” said Spencer. However, he did voice his support for
the goals of the organization, which was established in 1972 to promote justice, social equality, and the wise use of
natural resources. “PIRG came out of an era of activism and constituted an effort to work within the democratic process
to bring about change in an ordered way,” he said. Marynowski noted that last spring, both the Student Senate and
the Council on Campus and Religious Life recommended to Spencer that the PIRG fee be retained on the bill, at
least until another campus-wide referendum later this fall. The steady income provided by the old financing system—about 80 percent of
Davidson students paid the fee last year—is necessary to maintain the professional staff which coordinates PIRG’s major activities of research,
lobbying, litigation, and public awareness campaigns. Marynowski fears that without the old financing system, Davidson PIRG will likely lose the
services of this professional staff.

Despite the drastic cut in finances, Davidson PIRG continues to plan for the coming year. Projects for 1979-80 include research
on battered women and child abuse, an updated off-campus housing guide, a guide to employment opportunities, a forum on draft
registration, and anti-nuclear activities.

Continued from page 1

If proposed, it would fund and coordinate student volunteer programs in the Davidson community. Kello said its purposes are to
examine students’ leadership potential, to provide experience in volunteerism, and to relate careers to the ideas of motivation and service.
According to Spencer, the college is now in the process of applying for funding for the program. He added that
approval of the application is very uncertain. According to Kello, the DVP would differ from N.C. Fellows in several respects.
The program would employ a full-time director who would be able to give more personal attention to the students. More
students would participate, and more options would be available than under the current program. Each student would be asked to
write a proposal which will outline his aspirations with the program. Emphasis is to fall on volunteerism and service. Sophomores
are to be the program's main participants. The program will include a leadership-oriented workshop and will work closely with the
Placement Office. Individual students will be assigned off-campus mentors who share the same occupational interests.

The N.C. Fellows Program began at Davidson in 1967 with

Continued from page 1

Over seventy percent of the faculty is tenured, according to Spencer. Retzer asserted that when he arrived at DavidsonIn 1973,
the primary requirements for tenure were the completion of the candidate’s doctorate and the support of the candidate by his
department. Only in exceptional circumstances was tenure not granted, he said. The new code outlines three basic criteria for evaluating
professors: (1) Excellence in teaching, (2) professional attainments, and (3) intellectual and moral values. Furthermore, in the fall of 1977,
Spencer warned the faculty that at Davidson, as elsewhere, tenure decisions would be more carefully considered. According to Retzer, the
last time an eligible professor was denied tenure was in 1973. However, Spencer explained many professors have been refused contract
renewals in recent years, thereby eliminating them as candidates for tenure. Thus, according to Spencer, contract termination can be equated
with denial of tenure as “the same thing at an earlier point.”

Both Koller and Retzer protested that the Administration neither evaluated their performances as junior professors nor explained their standing as
tenure candidates until the final decisions were made. Regarding his professional performance, Koller stated that in six years, “No one
asked me anything.” According to Koller, Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann has begun a system of periodic evaluations
of nontenured faculty since coming to Davidson in 1977. However, since Koller and Retzer had taught at Davidson for several
years before Zimmermann's arrival, they were not included in any evaluation before they were considered for tenure. Retzer complained, “Now
they review people...when their contracts come up (for renewal). They didn’t do that for us.” Because they received no critical
feedback from the Administration, both Koller and Retzer fully expected to receive tenure.

In a letter to Spencer, Koller quoted an American Association of University Professors (AAUP) recommendation that the decision to award
tenure “...must come after a continuous evaluation process, during which the probationary candidate is regularly informed and counseled about his
performance and his prospects.” Spencer acknowledged that, “We have had no system of periodic evaluations” for the group considered for
tenure in 1979. He explained that though periodic evaluations are “desirable” in examining untenured professors, they “have not been considered
essential.” However, Spencer pointed out that in one sense untenured professors were certainly evaluated since they were carefully considered at
times of contract renewals. Koller and Retzer maintained that such contract renewals were evidence that they would receive tenure. Spencer,
though, emphasized, “A contract renewal is not a tenure decision.” Zimmermann pointed out that an assistant professor who consistently progresses
might still fail to receive tenure after his sixth year at Davidson.

Zimmermann explained that to remain on the faculty long enough to be considered for tenure, a professor must be very
competent. However, Zimmermann added, since the College is building the best faculty possible—not merely a good faculty—a candidate for tenure
might often be “good but not good enough.” Zimmermann emphasized that there are usually no particular negative reasons why a
professor is refused tenure. Instead, as Zimmermann wrote in an open letter, “A positive tenure decision... must be based on
a pattern of overall strength in each of the three general areas designated by the criteria for evaluation and on
the conviction that the candidate is the best person to fill the position which the college could hope to find.”

Attempting to prove such “overall strength,” Koller wrote a long letter to Spencer in August. In it, he detailed his
successes and activities at Davidson and requested a reconsideration of the tenure decision. Spencer declined to change his decision. Zimmermann
has written all three professors and offered them a chance to discuss their performances at Davidson. Zimmermann states specifically that:
“These conferences will not be discussions of or justifications of the tenure decision itself, but rather personal, informal conferences between
the two of us, intended, in accordance with the spirit of the Code (of Faculty Evaluation Procedures), to assist you
in appraising your performance here.”

Koller said that he was confused by Zimmermann’s note, for “It is unclear what the purpose of such a conference
might be if they are not related to the tenure decisions.” He stated that such conferences might have been “essential”
before the tenure decision. However, Koller added, “At this point it seems to serve little purpose except to further revive
the hurt associated with the decision and to further the mystery of why the decisions were made.”

Both Koller and Retzer have received considerable support from students and faculty since the announcement of the tenure decisions. According
to alumnus Michael Kennedy '79, on May 15, 1979, 483 students signed a petition opposing the decision to deny Koller
tenure. Approximately 300 signed a similar petition in support of Retzer, according to alumnus Thomas Engle '79. In addition, numerous
students have written to the Board of Trustees, Spencer, and Zimmermann expressing their dissatisfaction with the tenure decisions. According to
Koller and Retzer, many faculty members have also shown their support.
