John Gerdy anticipates his first dunk in recent memory, against the Good or bad, By BERT MOBLEY ating victory over highly ranked games, a win like that Sports Editor ed North Carolina last weekend ay N.C. State, Notre Dame, as an example. tion tremendously. - Duke, Wake Forest, Furman, With the difficulty of the S.C. Cartmill said that Davidson Indiana. These basketball teams then, why do the Cats will continue to get the prestigious teams would be formidable opposition for anyone in the with national powerhouses? optimism that the Biedenbach country. They are consistently Cartmill stated that the athletic Era will return Davidson to the among the finest basketball department wants to renew the basketball heights of ten years teams in the nation. Why are Duke contract and the Notre ago under Lefty Dreisell. There these teams on Davidson’s Dame contract, also, when it is no doubt that the Cats’ new schedule? runs out in a few years. The coach is well-respected around According to Athletic Director schedule for the 1980-81 season the nation and promises to be a Thomas Cartmill, basketball will be made this June and great influence in years to come. schedules are Southern Conference schools usually have to “get the big ones Biedenbach “has to have time composed from four Sports early,” according to Cartmill. to get the class of players that to six years in advance. Cartmill explained that get- he needs.” He needs time to The Davidson ting the prestigious schools on recruit and build the program. teams that Davidson faces this the schedule is important even A schedule of nationally prominent season were set up years ago when Head Coach Eddie Biedenbach was coach at a school (N.C. State) that kept beating the ’Cats. There is nothing that this year’s staff can do but play the games and hope for the best. Next year is the same way. Davidson will still play some of the elite teams of the country. Is this good or bad? This question is difficult to analyze and answer. Does the factor of prestige override the fact that Davidson loses (and loses, etc.)? What is more important -- playing big-name schools and getting the publicity, as bad as it is, or playing teams of lesser talent and winning? Cartmill is quick to point out that part of the reason for Davidson’s difficult schedule depends directly on the quality of basketball in the Southern Conference. The team used to play ten S.C. games each season, but NCAA rules now require that the conference teams play round-robin tournaments. In Cartmill’s words, “The Southern Conference is no longer a weak sister: it’s tough basketball.” This season has held that point up very well. Davidson has lost all but one of its conference games. The Southern Conference teams have fared well against other teams though they are usually the victors against the Cats. The receipts at the gate are a major reason. The big games draw well and are important economically. Cartmill explained the Davidson dilemma by saying, “the ‘bigs’ bring in money, but we cannot depend on this at the expense of the stability of the basketball program.” The Atlantic Coast Conference has been one of the premier conferences in basketball for years, and any game against an A.C.C. team presents a tremendous challenge. In fact, the victory of weeks ago over Wake was the first over an A.C.C. team in five years. The fact that they are local schools, however, is the reason that they are on the schedule now and will continue to be. Economics enters into this situation immensely. The nearness of these schools brings in a lot of their fans and their money. Television games are also profitable ways to spend a Saturday afternoon. Whenever Davidson plays a national power, there is a chance that the game will be televised. While the College receives a big check for these appearances, the team usually takes a drubbing that, to say the least, looks bad on the tube. Nevertheless, it can easily be argued that the risk is well worth a big win like Davidson had over South Carolina last year. Even though prominent teams is a plus. Of course, on the negative side of the issue, losing is not a strongselling point. For the optimist, however, a strong schedule may well be a blessing. All Davidson supporters look forward to the day when the Cats will be a powerhouse themselves and get THEIR picture on the cover of Sports Illustrated.

Cat ski team takes third
By DEAN MARSHALL
Davidsonian Correspondent

The Davidson ski team placed third in stiff competition at Beech Mountain last Friday. While lagging behind Lees McCrae and Appalachian State, they finished in front of Clemson and the University of Tennessee. Johan Kinck placed third, Baxter Pharr finished eleventh, and Tom Weitz was seventeenth in the competition. Mark Stooper rounded out the field for Davidson. Another team member, Dean Marshall, asked that anyone interested in skiing for Davidson at the next meet on February 16 should contact either him or Kinck.

Davidson loses most of its TV team.
"Catcall" by John Haskell

By JOHN HASKELL

Evel Knievel hops on his motorcycle and flies over thirteen cars, and you wonder if he’s not a little crazy. Some maniac tightrope-walks across Yankee Stadium, perhaps just moments away from splattering himself on the infield, and you wonder if he’s not a little crazy. Then, in our safe little corner of the world, we see those poor souls on the Davidson cross country team plod on, mile after mile, and you wonder if they too aren’t a little bit off the deep end. Day after day these apparently masochistic runners travel insane distances, driving themselves incessantly, for what seems very little reason. These people on the competitive level obviously take their sport seriously. It seems almost too seriously. Running must certainly be a great deal more than a fad or a craze to them, as it is to countless thousands across the country.

Among sports, cross country certainly has a great many unique characteristics. The training is especially tough, and this training appears sort of removed from the competitive side of the sport. It doesn’t seem like the race is worth the workout. Everything seems so pointless. To be fair, I guess that one might say that running is an abstract sport. The motivation behind it just isn’t obvious. But we can’t leave it at that. I confronted a few of our eminent cross country men and asked them to justify themselves. The questions—what drives you to practice day after day, what special satisfaction (if any) is there in running, how important is the competition, and is there anything special about it—were asked of sophomores John Davis, Jeff Hamilton, and Bart Landess. Being self-righteous, as is the nature of long-distance runners, they defended themselves vigorously.

This was not a philosophical or metaphysical treatise on the mystical experience of running. Rather they all had pretty down-to-earth reasons for their ongoing participation in their sport. They like participating in sports, and they value staying active and being in shape. Running is really just like any sport, in that it is a means to have "fun and health," says John Davis. To excel and improve in racing is reason enough to keep at it. Apparently, participating in competitive running is just as valuable and interesting as other sports are to other people.

There are unique aspects of running that they especially appreciate. Jeff Hamilton likes the idea that the competition isn’t "masked by team play." He values the individual effort and the intensity he can generate. Bart Landess feels that running is important to him because it allows him to really extend "the limits of (his) performance." He appreciates the influence his mind can exercise over his body. The competition "provides tangible goals," according to Davis. The fellowship and the joy of doing well make up, at least partially, for the drudgery. The competition is important. The races give them confidence, and even a noncompetitive marathon can really be a lot of fun for them.

What it comes down to is that they’ve convinced themselves that running competitively is like any other serious sport. One does it to improve, do well, and have fun. They get excited about fresh air and autumn leaves, good competition, and fellowship. All of it makes the drudgery, granted that it may be a bit excessive, worthwhile.