THE DAVIDSONIAN
“Magna vis veritatis”
Volume LXIX, Number 1
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
September 14, 1979

College faces labor charges
By JOLIN BOSWELL
Staff Correspondent

The National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) has filed a formal complaint against the College stating that its officials tried to “discourage concerted activity among its employees.” The complaint also alleges that the College discriminated against three employees of the Physical Plant in regard to the terms of their employment. The case will be heard before a Labor Board administrative law judge on February 4, 1980, in Charlotte.

The filing of the complaint on August 7 is a major step in what has been a long procedure dealing with the grievances of the three employees—Bill Rolland, Ruben McIntosh, and David Alexander. The employees complained that after they circulated a January petition protesting College time clock and paycheck procedures, the College took unfair disciplinary actions against them. The employees were put on probation and (See NLRB, Page 3)

Valling in a new class of freshmen. For more on orientation, see page 7. (Brad Kerr)

Expected funding problems doom NC Fellows program
By KEVIN WHEELOCK
Staff Correspondent

This academic year will be the last for Davidson's North Carolina Fellows chapter, barring a “miracle,” said Associate Director Mrs. D. Grier Martin. In fact, College officials are already working on a replacement program. N.C. Fellows is a state-wide university-level program that aims to develop “leadership potential.” Davidson's 30 current Fellows, selected in their freshman year, participate in a variety of activities—luncheons with local leaders, summer internship experiences, and career counseling with the directors and outside organizations.

According to Dr. Kello, Director of the program, the continuation of the Fellows program has been in question for several years. The sponsor of the program, the Richardson Foundation, has been granting funds on an annual basis for the past two years. Kello said that in recent years the foundation has not been able to procure enough money from businesses and other sources to run the program. As a result, Martin said, there is only enough money to get the program through this year.

Martin is quick to add that she and Kello both feel a strong personal commitment to continue contact with current Fellows even after this year. In anticipation of losing the Fellows program, College President Samuel Spencer and Placement Director Ken Wood have been developing a replacement program. According to Kello, the program, tentatively called the Davidson Volunteer Program (DVP), would follow a format similar to that of N.C. Fellows. The specifics of the DVP are largely undecided. As now pro- (See NC Fellows, Page 1)

Koller and Retzer protest
Spencer denies reevaluation of tenure decision of last May
By JOHN SIMAN
Asst. News Editor

Sociology Professor Norman Koller and Political Science Professor Joseph Retzer have denounced both the tenure decisions of last May and the manner in which the decisions were reached. The two professors and English Professor Georgianna Ziegler were the first professors to be refused tenure under the new Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures. The faculty adopted the Code in March.

Retzer stated that by evaluating him under the new Code, the Administration “changed the rules in the middle of the game.” The professors denied tenure arrived at Davidson in 1973. The faculty adopted the Code two months before the Administration announced the tenure decisions. “There's nothing one can do in the eleventh hour (about new criteria),” Koller said. However, College President Samuel Spencer maintained, “The Code is not a set of new criteria. It is a codification of past criteria.” (There was no actual written evaluation procedure until the passage of the present code.)

Spencer also said that since 1973 getting tenure has become “more difficult all over the country, including Davidson.” Spencer concurred with Trustee Dickson Phillips' statement that “...it is likely that small first-rate colleges face no graver risk to their long-term excellence than becoming ‘over-tenured’ with faculty members who (though good and maybe better than good) are not as good as the best that the college can rightly aspire to attract.”and (See Koller, Page 11)

Billing change hurts NC-PIRG

By ELIZABETH KISS
Staff Correspondent

The Davidson chapter of NC-PIRG has lost 95 percent of its funding as a result of a recent change in college billing procedures. President Samuel Spencer's decision to omit the $4 fee supporting PIRG from student bills caused PIRG's funding to drop to $200, down $3800 from last year. In the past, the $4 fee was included in the comprehensive fee for the school year. Those not wishing to contribute to PIRG were instructed to subtract $4 from their payment. Now students must add $4 to support PIRG.

According to Spencer, unless students agree to reinstate the previous system of funding in a referendum this fall, Davidson PIRG will have to rely solely on individual contributions. The reason for the change, Spencer explained, was that the (See PIRG, Page 11)

Tenure decisions cause junior professors to worry about job security

By TIM DWIGHT
Staff Writer

Davidson's untenured professors are upset. They are worried because jobs in the academic world are scarce and they feel that tenure is no longer assured here. And as shown by the recent tenure decisions, junior professors sometimes have a tough time finding out where they stand. This may change now that the new Faculty Code of Evaluation is in effect, yet professors still have their fears.

The common practice at Davidson in the past has been to give tenure to almost everyone eligible. The procedure was: come to Davidson and walk into a tenured teaching post. Now Davidson is changing. The faculty is filling with tenured professors, the Administration is tightening up its tenure standards, and jobs outside Davidson are hard to find.

Davidson has always emphasized teaching over publishing and prided itself on good student-teacher relationships. But with competition keener outside where publishing is more important and with junior professors realizing that tenure is not automatic, the professors are beginning to feel “The pressure is on to publish more,” as one untenured professor put it. “The pressure is on to get it done and the pressure is on to get it done quickly.”

But recent interviews with many untenured professors indicate that they have not changed their publishing habits. Most feel they already publish enough. The professors did express concern over uncertainty about the tenure standards. All agreed that there needs to be more communication between the Administration and the faculty long before tenure decisions are made. As one professor said, “They should use more systematic procedures in evaluation. They should, at each stage of the process, make the candidate aware of where he stands. Evaluation is supposed to be a cooperative process to improve teachers.”

Another professor stated, “They should give us comments as critical as possible and as comprehensive as possible on all the points in the Code.” Untenured faculty members said that a professor should be told “in writing” and “fully” why he did not get tenure.

None of the untenured professors objected to the use of the faculty Code of Evaluation. “It is excellent as an ideal code” and “On paper, it’s fine,” were two comments expressed. One professor did criticize its vagueness. He said, “I generally like it, but it is such an open document that it can be taken many different ways.”

The main complaint with the Code was that it lacked an arm for faculty input. Said one junior professor, “I absolutely agree that we should have a faculty Evaluation Committee. Most of the untenured faculty wanted it. I think Zimmermann and Spencer wanted it.” A committee does not exist because last year’s vote to form one did not receive a two-thirds majority.

Another source of tension is “a vague suspicion that the administration has some tenure quota,” although most untenured professors did not believe a quota was used. All agreed that a quota would be stupid. “A rigid tenure ceiling would be a mistake,” commented one untenured professor. “Before the Administration would use any tenure ceiling they should think very carefully about its effect on the morale of the junior professors. Also, if the main motive for it were to be saving money, then it is wrong.”