| 4—The Davidsonian—May 4, 1979

cic scenes? John Tucker siglive from lack of circulation.
(Brad Kerr)

‘Real People’ features Ugly Club

By BILL PEEPLES
Executive Editor

The NBC television network has come up with an unbelievable new prime-time show that combines the better aspects of “Laugh-In,” “Saturday Night Live,” “The Tonight Show,” and “Candid Camera.”

The new show, “Real People,” may prove to be the sort of thing Fred Silverman's NBC needs to pull the company out of last place in the ratings.

The second broadcast of “Real People” aired last Wednesday evening and was hysterical. The cast interviewed a Southern California woman who declares she is from outer space and goes planet-hopping to save distressed civilizations.

Another guest told of a close encounter of the third kind. He lives by a lake in Wisconsin and paddles around in a banana-shaped boat, which he claims resembles the shape of the universe.

One day when he was in his boat, a black angel from another planet appeared to him, or so he said. He was purportedly given 144,000 one-inch humans, whom he was to shelter during the coming collision of Earth with Haley’s Comet.

The little people were going to begin a new human civilization on Earth. Unfortunately, he said the microscopic people disappeared while he slept.

It is much easier to get on the tube by appearing on the “Gong Show.”

“Real People” also featured a visit to the Chipendale, a very unusual disco. Chipendale is more like a strip joint, except the dancers are all male, appear before an all-female audience, and do not take it all off.

Just as “Hee-haw” salutes rural American towns, “Real People” recognized the unattractive men in the world. A southern town named Henderson solicits male membership in the local “Ugly Club,” which was started by the Henderson Fire Department.

All the members claimed to be the ugliest man in town and took great pride in their respective features. One character said the club does not allow women members because “that could be all kinds of trouble.”

When “Real People” gave a tribute to unknown American inventors, the most interesting subject was a young man who wore a strange gadget on his back when he jogged.

The device was a gasoline-powered machine that had arms attached to his thighs. While he jogs, the device pushes his legs forward, increasing both his endurance and speed. One time the machine jammed and caused a groin injury.

“Real People” can be seen on WRET, channel 36 in Charlotte, at eight o’clock pm Wednesday.

Notes on Students

Phi Eta Sigma

The Davidson Chapter of Phi Eta Sigma, the freshman Honor Society, initiated 29 members last week. Phi Eta Sigma is comprised of all those freshmen who have a 3.83 average for the fall term and sophomores who have attained that average for the entire freshman year. The new initiates include: Deborah Irene Bland ’81, Robert Ford Campany ’81, James Whitney Cheek ’82, Michael Edward Cooper '82, Stuart B. Dorsett '82, Richard L. Gergoudis '82, Victor H. Hawk ’82, Jerome Collett Hay ’82, Brent C. Hilleary '82, John Bristow Hoffmann '82, Margaret Berrena Holt ’82, William David Hoover, Jr. ’82, Joanna Ruth Hunt ’82, Donna Jean Iles ‘82, Carol Susan Impara ’82, Michael David Kehs '82, Ralph A. Lasley ’82, Clarence W. Legerton ’82, Harold Anthony Lloyd ’81, Joanne MacConnachie ’82, Curtis Reid Markham ’82, Brian W. Nash ’82, Albert Dwayne Nester '82, John Carol Siman '82, Scott Gordon Smith '82, John Given Spangler ‘82, Rhett Jeffrey Thompson '81, Craig Justice White ’82, Sarah Payne Campbell '82.

The new officers for the 1979-1980 school year are: Judy Inge, president, Carol Loftin, vice president, Mike Pearson, treasurer, and Sylvia Gordon, secretary.

Convocation Awards

At the annual Spring Awards Convocation last Friday, the college community recognized a number of students with both departmental and general honors. The Sandy Black Memorial Award for the outstanding junior pre-medical student went to Michael Garfinkel. Susan Bane received the David Howard Chemistry Award. The Richard Ross Music Award was awarded to Tony Martin, while another music award, the Presser Scholarship, went to Robin Dinda.

For excellence in economics, the A.K. Phifer Scholarship was awarded to Carol Loftin and Steven T. Smith. Fai Wong received the W.G. McGavock Mathematics Award. Andrew Williams won the Jefferson Davis Award for excellence in the study of Constitutional Law. The Bremer German Language Award, instituted this year, was awarded to Lloyd Moss.

For outstanding participation in intercollegiate athletics, the Thomas D. Sparrow Award was given to Pat Dulany. Kirk Cameron received the Rebecca Stinson Award for dedication to women’s athletics.

For aptitude in military service, the John Baker Woods III Memorial Award and the George C. Marshall ROTC Award were given to David Mohan and Harrison Marshall, Jr., respectively. The Daniel Blain Woods Award was awarded to senior pre-meds David Isenhower and Susan Davidson.

John Gerdy was awarded the Tommy Peters Award for typifying “the Davidson spirit in athletic competition.” Alumni freshmen awarded for the highest GPA during the freshman year were sophomores Blain Sanders, Walter Pharr, and David Watts. The George L. Gladstone Award went to Dick Diebert for “high potential for leadership.”

The Richards Award for participation in campus activities was given to John Tucker.

The Loving Remembrances for Mother’s Day

Custom Framing
Art, Office,
School Supplies

Saturday, May 5

Come see our exhibit of prints and originals

Local talents featured for Town Day