By PATSY DANIELS

He storms through the halls of Chambers, his felt-tipped pen unsheathed and slashing through misspelled words on posters. In College Bowl tournaments, he intimidates opposing teams by greeting them in classical Latin, and not only does he know the answers to the toss-ups, on occasion he’s been known to correct the questions. When The Charlotte Observer has any doubts as to the definition of an obscure word, Charles Lloyd is consulted. Stuart Dim, managing editor of The Observer, considers him a two-legged Oxford English Dictionary. Said Mrs. Billy Graham after sitting in on one of Lloyd’s Shakespeare classes last spring, “He’s the C.S. Lewis of Davidson.” Says Mr. Lloyd, “GERRAE.” I reply, “Sir?” Says Mr. Lloyd, “UNSINN.” (Oh well).

I've been attempting to figure him out ever since I saw him as I was wandering across the campus on my first day here in 1976. I didn’t know who he was or where I was or why he was. But I thought he might be a professor because he had grey hair and was wearing a three-piece flannel suit (it was ninety-five degrees; I've heard he wears it while mowing the grass). I ran after him as he strolled in front of the union, a pack of exotic dogs at his heels, a Phi Beta Kappa key glittering in the sun and a pipe in his mouth like a trumpet at Jericho. I stopped him and said, “Excuse me, Dr....” He retorted, “I’m no doctor. If you're ill, the infirmary is across the street.” His dogs began barking in Swahili while I apologized, “Yes, sorry...sir, but could you tell me where Belk dormitory is? I'm new here.” He smiled and tilted his face upward as if he knew a metaphysical secret. He said, “Like youthful steer unyok'd, they take their courses/East, west, north, south; or, like a school broke up,/Each hurries toward his home and sporting place.” I nodded and wondered if transferring to Davidson had been such a good idea after all.

Mr. Lloyd was born in Alabama. He began his college studies at U.N.C.-Chapel Hill at the age of fifteen. He reads in thirteen languages and once when he was introducing Brown Patterson to a group of students he joked, “This man knows everything. And I know the rest.” He can get away with saying that because he really doesn’t believe it, even if everyone else does. Before coming to Davidson twenty-two years ago, he held an assortment of unusual jobs: selling Compton's Encyclopedias (I suppose the O.E.D. was a bit cumbersome to lug door-to-door), working for Army Intelligence (they say he would crack the German code, correct grammatical errors and then send the messages back across the Atlantic), and working with the State Department in Intelligence after World War II. For a while, he sold air conditioners. His wife, Maude, said that Mr. Lloyd decided to teach when he realized that selling encyclopedias wasn’t lucrative (this may be due to the fact that when he'd introduce his product he'd refer to it as enkyklios paideia).

As an English major, I know what it’s like to read eight hours in a day (I do this once a year, the Friday before comprehensives). I was curious as to how much Mr. Lloyd reads each day. I asked his wife. She sighed, “Why, I don't know... he reads continuously — at breakfast he reads the back of the cereal box or picks a scrap bit of paper or a wrapper off the floor and reads that. He reads anything that has words on it.” I know this must be true and I wish it were not. I mean, how would you feel if you were sitting in the front row of his Shakespeare class and he asked,“Patsy, have you read The White Devil? No? The New Machiavelli? No? The Hermit and the Wild Women and Other Stories? No? Well, how about The Milk Train Doesn't Stop Here Anymore? Gee, I wish I'd read as little as you have. I'd have so much to look forward to.”

This year Mr. Lloyd planted a garden for the first time. Apparently, he devoted much careful thought and planning to this endeavor because I remember him spending last spring clearing the jungle from his yard. It was so overgrown that when he cut back the elephant grass, he found a picnic table that had been missing for three years. I asked his wife, “What did Mr. Lloyd plant in his garden?” She replied, “Radishes.” “And what else?” I asked. She frowned, “That’s it. And he doesn’t even eat radishes. I had to sneak outside while he was at work and plant carrots, lima beans, peas, and lettuce.”

It’s a fact that Mr. Lloyd does not like to be interviewed. But gentleman and scholar that he is, he granted me one regardless. I walked into his office one morning with my notebook and he said, “Gode morwe, Patsy. Sit down.” Then he dug into his coat pocket and withdrew an Almond Joy. “Would you like half?” I clicked open my pen. “No thank you, sir.” He unwrapped it anyway and ungummed a squashed bit of chocolate from the cardboard. It seemed a bit stale (the chocolate was turning white) so he tossed it in the trash and gave me the rest of the candy bar. He said, “O, throw away the worser part of it, / And live the purer with the other half.”

I asked Mr. Lloyd if he had a favorite writer. “No,” he replied, “I like too many to have just one. However, C.S. Lewis and Shakespeare are at the top of the list. I also respect P.G. Wodehouse and Woody Allen.” He paused to light his pipe and then continued his answer from behind a cloud of smoke. “But there is one book I find myself returning to more than any.” I leaned forward. “Yes sir? Which?” “Treasure Island,” he said. “You know, Patsy, I don't like being interviewed.” I nodded. “Yes sir, I know. Do you have any favorite painters?” He stood. “I like Breughel. Now I must go. I have to photocopy one of my notorious vocabulary quizzes.”

Mr. Lloyd paused at the door and ran a finger down the list of words. He smiled. “Do you know what denture means?” I felt a surge of confidence. “Yes sir. A false tooth.” He frowned and his face looked so ominous with the smoke swirling up around it that I felt like Moses on Mt. Ararat. “NO, it does not. Denture is the aphetic form of indenture. Originally a deed on parchment was cut asunder in a serrated line, so that when the halves were eventually rejoined, the edges would exactly tally, thus verifying that they were parts of the one and same original document. They that comen in Kynges name putt her seals to that other part of the indentures.”

Before Mr. Lloyd disappeared down the hallway, I touched his sleeve and bade him to let me ask him one final question. I thought about the world beyond Davidson. Was there one, would I be part of it after graduation, how could I become wise so I might presently have a future?

“Oh, tell me, Mr. Lloyd, what should I do next?” He scratched his head and raised two fingers in a philosophical gesture. “Repent what's past; avoid what is to come; / And do not spread the compost on the weeds.”