January 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—3

Wandering on a Foreign Strand

Davidson's Junior Year Abroad program offers enough opportunities to make Lake Norman look like a mud puddle

By MARK BARRETT
Asst. News Editor

Junior Year Abroad: Ten months separated from old friends, family, perhaps the English language, American culture, and Davidson. Heaven or
Hell?

“I didn’t want to come back,” said Rob Park, a veteran of a year at the University of Buckingham in
England.

“It was one of the most worthwhile experiences of my life,” said Barbie Roberts, who studied in the Davidson program
at Marburg last year. Celeste Holder, who went to Montpellier, added, “Being gone for so long is great, although coming
back is a real adjustment.” Park even half-joked, “I think they should ship the whole Davidson junior class abroad.”

Davidson presently offers a junior year abroad program at each of the following universities: Buckingham (England), Reading (England), East Anglia
(England), Montpellier (France), and Marburg (Germany). Each program lasts for approximately ten months. They offer participating students a chance to
live and study for a full academic year as a regular student in a European university. The objective of the
programs is to integrate students as much as possible into the culture of the area in which they are studying,
while still providing ample opportunity for travel across the rest of Europe.

The College estimates each student will spend, excluding travel and minor expenses, about $6,000 in the Marburg and Montpellier programs,
$3,385 of which must be paid to Davidson itself. Estimated cost at East Anglia and Reading is given as $4,100,
of which $750 is payable to Davidson, and a year at Buckingham costs about $4,700.

To a man, all of the ex-JYA seniors The Davidsonian was able to contact had no regrets about their decision
to go abroad. No one denied that there are problems involved in the JYA experience, but all still felt that
JYA was extremely worthwhile. However, the reasons for their endorsements varied widely.

Roberts said, “It’s a very satisfying experience to move into a completely new situation with a foreign language and make
it on your own.” John Cunningham, who also went to Buckingham, said, “I now have a much better understanding of
Europeans and their viewpoints. I had never realized how the United States looks from outside. I would recommend it every
day of the week.” Ex-Montpellier student David Hull concurred, saying, “It was a good experience to meet people that didn’t
have the viewpoint that the United States is the best country in the world. JYA made me think much more
about the world outside.”

Linda Talbot, who studied in Reading last year, thought it was good for her to be in an atmosphere where
“the emphasis is not on making good grades in order to get into graduate school, but is more on learning
for its own sake.” Pre-medicine major Chris Friesinger, who went to Marburg, was pleased with his experience partly because, “It
gave me a chance to think about medicine.”

One benefit most of the former JYA students did agree on was perhaps best expressed by Denise Smith (Reading): “You
pick up a sense of self, as apart from Davidson, as apart fromthe United States, and as apart from family.
You gain a sense of being able to take care of yourself.” Some of this sense of self-reliance and apartness
from Davidson seems to stay with most ex-JYA students after they return. Only three of the 23 students who went
on Davidson-sponsored junior year abroad programs live on campus this year, a situation perhaps encouraged by the preponderance of off-campus
housing the students lived in last year. Most of the students seemed more confident than the average Davidson student and
even those whose post-graduate plans were very indefinite did not seem to be worried about their chances of success and
happiness after.

Other similarities among the former JYA students that The Davidsonian was able to contact were also apparent. Only two are
planning to begin graduate school next year. About half are considering entering graduate school at one time or another, but
most of these intend to “breathe” for a year or two before returning to academic work. All seemed to empathize
with Holder’s statement, “I’m sick of all the pre-professionalism here at Davidson.” Most students did not consider the readjustment to
Davidson difficult, but they almost all agreed their criticism of the school has heightened since their return. Many felt this
is hindering their enjoyment of their last year here, but others did not. Cunningham said, “It’s good to be back,
but I am still looking forward to getting out and working.” “As much as you have changed and as much
as you have seen, Davidson is Davidson. Davidson doesn’t change. You learn to like it for what it is, because,
otherwise, if you dwell on what it isn’t, it isn’t,” Holder noted. Roberts agreed, saying, “I think that what you
miss (by being away from Davidson for a year) can be made up the first three weeks you are back.”
Smith said, “I had no problem at first, but it...” Engle added, “I think the senior year is often a
less happy year.” Park professed a new perspective on Davidson, saying, “When you have been to Britain where the whole
society seems to be collapsing, you can’t really get excited about the Thursday night social being canceled.” Nancy Clifton, who
studied in Montpellier last year, said, however, “I have had no dissatisfaction with Davidson before or after.” She also pointed
out, “If you are disappointed by your senior year after returning from JYA, there’s a good chance you would have
been critical even had you not gone abroad.”

Most of the senior JYA students called for the college to give more attention to international studies. They felt that
the International Education program is understaffed and underfunded at Davidson. Cunningham’s comment was typical: “The programs here are good, but
there should be a lot more.” Park added, “It would be good to have a comprehensive file of programs sponsored
by other schools that are open to Davidson students.” The former JYA students also felt that the faculty doesn’t do
enough to support the International Education program and became particularly disturbed when talking to professors who they felt discourage study
abroad. Engle said, “Many problems (see JYA, page 11)”
