Art 3 sets Seer’ Ragcerss Herb Jackson, better known as “that asshole who wears the sunglasses inside Chambers,” has an elusive goal of “fooling all of the people all of the time.” He now heads the Davidson Art Department, refuting once and for all that silly notion that pre-meds who make it into med school wind up pumping gas for the rest of their lives.

When the job market started getting tight a few years ago, Herb saw that biology and ROTC weren't going to shake any bucks loose from the money tree. What he did see, however, was a burgeoning market for 60’s relics among guilt-ridden college administrations trying to change their corporate image. So, with the analytic mind he inherited from his father the doctor, Herb invested: he got a permanent, learned a few Zen clichés, wore a purple cape, named his kid Air Leif Fire and Water Jackson, and took up marijuana.

Herb’s finances testify to the fact that he managed to find the one field no one knows anything about--including himself--modern art. Only his persistent refusal to answer questions or to teach has hidden this fact from President Charles Spencer (who, in Frank Zappa’s words, wouldn't know art if it bit him in the ass anyway). However, to the experienced eye, Herb’s tremendous performance has failed to obscure three basic facts: that he can’t paint, he can’t teach, and that he has all the sex appeal of a tree stump.

Larry Ligo may not know any more about Basic Studio than Herb Jackson, but boy can he run a slide projector.

Professor Warren is the best of all possible reasons to bring Professor Emeritus Doug Houchens out of retirement.editor), and now people from the Graphics Department. His editorials have not represented the feelings of any of the Davidsonian staff. If he feels that his is a position of public trust, and if he thinks he has a mandate from the student body, then he is wrong. The only reason he was elected is because he was running against a SPE who knew nothing at all about journalism.

You have managed to alienate a large part of the student body, Charles Ervin. The best thing you could do for us is to resign immediately and go back to the professors you have allowed to be appointed.

Sister Verna, the Biology Department’s answer to Debra Jo Fondren, is interested in a single subject: sex. Sex in ring-necked doves. Sex in zebra finches. Sex in frogs. Sex in gorillas. Sex in Dana. Sex in Chambers. Like all good professors, her teaching is very much influenced by her interests. Her lectures are sensuous; her tests obscene. When it comes to grading...

Tom Daggy, the only man on the faculty who’s gotten so old that he seems to vegetate, has been senile for more than eight years. It first showed up in rather harmless ways. One day he gave the scientific name for common ragwort. Then he forgot the correct answers to his test questions (the now-famous “Dr. Daggy never changes the questions on his tests, just the answers” is much more than just another joke). Then he forgot where he lives and where he works.

One day Sam Spencer and Grover Meetze found him drifting absent-mindedly through a host of golden daffodils, singing the following in a nasal high-pitched voice: “How various are thy insects, O God; and how various the flowers they feed upon.” Behind him trailed a love-sick cow.

Sam and Grover took him home and put him to bed. Soon he was up and about again but terribly confused. They taught him to sleep in the botany lab with his right eye peering into a microscope so that everyone would think he still knows something. They taught him to sleepily write on the blackboard so he won’t forget how to live a useful Christian life again.

Harry R. Greyard
Chairman, Media Board