December 7, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

‘Cats take 2-0 record to weekend tourney

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Davidson College has a young basketball team in a young season. But the young season is 2-0 and the young
team is “eliminating mistakes and putting their feet on the ground,” according to Wildcat coach Eddie Biedenbach.

Davidson opened last Saturday in Johnston Gym with a lackluster 88-78 win over lowly-regarded Wofford. Monday night, however, saw an
exciting come-from-behind win over Southern Conference opponent Virginia Military at ‘The Pit” in Lexington, one of the most hostile arenas
in the league.

The young team has little chance to grow before opening in the First Union Tournament against one of last season's
top four, Pennsylvania. Penn, with Tom Leifson of Sports Illustrated fame, may not be as tough as expected because they
lost four of their starters due to graduation. Moreover, the Quakers opened this season with an 88-58 loss at Wake
Forest. “I scouted that game,” Biedenbach said, “and Wake is awfully good, but Penn’s pretty good, too. They weren’t beaten
as badly as the score indicates.”

Davidson plays Friday at 7 p.m. The Cats hope to meet the winner of the UNC-Charlotte vs. Oklahoma State game
Saturday at 9 p.m. in the championship game. The bout begins at 7 p.m.

Other action next week includes Western Carolina Monday night in Charlotte and Eckerd on campus next Wednesday night.

The Cats are indeed a young team this year with three seniors, one of whom starts, one junior, six sophomores,
and four freshmen. One of the most pleasant aspects of this two-game-old season is the play of the freshmen. Coach
Biedenbach started John Carroll in both of the games and went to his bench often for Rich Wilson and Cliff
Tribus. So far, the results have been, to say the least, desirable. Carroll has added 14 points to the Cats’
effort while Tribus has scored 20, 18 of those coming against VMI. Wilson has scored one basket so far—one at
the buzzer to pull Davidson within two at halftime against VMI. The fourth freshman, Casey Ranam, left campus unexpectedly last
Saturday but has returned to school and to the lineup.

Another pleasing aspect of this season has been the play of sophomore Rich DiBenedetto who sat out last season after
a fine freshman year. He opened the season with 40 points against Wofford and saved Davidson from what some would
call “a most embarrassing defeat.” He added 11 at VMI. “Wofford's man-to-man against DiBenedetto under the post didn't work and
we were getting the ball to him and scoring,” Biedenbach explained. “VMI had him double-teamed, and he couldn't do very
much. He’s got to learn to move.”

A third positive aspect of the season so far is the play of the “regulars.” James Hall is averaging 16
points and 10 rebounds per game, Todd Haynes has a 13-point average with 8.5 rebounds. Ernie Reigel is adding 6.5
points per game. The depth of the bench has also been instrumental in the first two wins.

Even with the two victories, Coach Biedenbach said, “We've only played well for about seven minutes. VMI took advantage of
the mistakes we made against Wofford. I'm disappointed we got in the position we did where we had to come
back. We finally delivered some clutch shots and played good defense and pulled it out.” Davidson was down by eight
with seven minutes to go.

Biedenbach points out, however, that the mistakes may have turned out for the best. “What we were telling them to
do differently against Wofford, they found out for themselves at VMI.” Learning is a vital ingredient for this team, and
the young players themselves recognize this. “We've got to learn to play together,” Carroll said, “and learn each other's moves.
I've learned a lot of basketball since I've been here.” Tribus added, “We've just got to learn and keep getting
better. Hopefully, we can keep on improving.” “I don't really think of myself as a freshman,” Wilson said. “I enjoy
playing, and I'm contributing. That’s about all I can ask.”

All-Star honors cap hockey season

By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team carried their 7-6 record to the Division II State Tournament at Winthrop College in early
November with high expectations after their regular season and came away with some high individual honors.

The Wildcatters' first opponent was Catawba College who had previously defeated the Davidson team 3-2 in overtime. The Catters emerged
victorious 3-0. Advancing to the semi-finals after resting a mere one and a half hours, the team put up a
valiant fight against the number two seed, Pfeiffer College but eventually bowed to the fresh Pfeiffer squad 1-0. This loss
eliminated Davidson from the State Tournament; the team, however, went on to play in the Deep South Tournament.also held at
Winthrop. The purpose of the Deep South Tournament is to select three teams of All-Star players (Continued from page 2).
Dean of Students Will Terry said the editor(s) of Quips and Cranks will be appointed by the Media Board. Sanford
said she filed for Wildcat Handbook editor because "I'd been thinking about it and it bothered me that no one
signed up." She said the format of the handbook, which even a little crazier. I want the handbook to be
interesting so that the freshmen will look at it. Sanford mentioned that she had had some experience with high school
publications and foresaw no problems with the Handbook editorship. She said she had spoken to several people about being on
the staff and added, "I'll be talking to Andy and Taine. We have the same ideas, but perhaps Pidgeon and
Robert can contribute." She said they had the interest and enthusiasm necessary for the job. Roberts, who is Publications to
represent the area in a regional hockey tournament. The Cats compiled a respectable record defeating Sewanee 2-1, tying South Carolina
Club 2-2, and ending the season with another victory over Catawba. This strong finish was complemented by the fact that
eight members of the team were chosen to represent the Deep South in the regional tournament at Goucher College in
Maryland. First team honors went to Cindy Curtis and Carol Heppner while Mary Gray Gilchrist, Barb Ashley, and Cathy Inabnet
were chosen for the second team. Selected to the third team were Lisa Ballantyne, Sally Craig, and Bunnie Horine. Susie
Roberts rounded out Davidson's representation by being chosen as the first team coach for the Deep South. Furthermore, Cindy Curtis
was selected as goalie to represent the Southeast section in the National tournament held in Edison, New Jersey over the
Thanksgiving holidays.

Freshman John Carroll has won a starting spot. (Brad Kerr)

Women’s b-ball opens with victory
By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

The Davidson Women’s basketball team opened their season on an auspicious note Tuesday night when they soundly drubbed Converse College
65-28, in Johnston Gym. Evidently buoyed by the prospect of seeing the end to some lean years in the women's
basketball program, Coach Suzie Roberts said, "I’m very optimistic about the season. I've never been as excited with the potential
as this year." She stopped short of predicting a final record, saying only that she expects "a winning season." She
has good reason for optimism. The Lady Cats managed to "defensively control the entire game," and back this currently enrolled
in Professor Abbott's Advanced Writing class, said, "I'm going to learn. I think by the time I take over the
editorship (in the spring), I'll have good judgment." Pidgeon added that they would be helped by German Professor Julius Winkler,
permanent faculty editor of The Miscellany, though Roberts stated, "I don't quite know what our status is in regard to
him."

In previous years, The Miscellany has had a national emphasis, advertising for better publicize missions in The Writer (a major
writing periodical) and publishing short stories and poetry from all areas of the country. Meanwhile, Davidson input has been slight.
Roberts believes that since The Miscellany is funded by the Activities Tax Council, students should be better represented within its
pages. While continuing to solicit and accept manuscripts from outside Davidson, he and Pidgeon want more students to contribute. "There
is enough good student writing to compete," he said. "The problem is people just don’t contribute." Pidgeon added that they
would try to set deadlines and perhaps initiate a campus competition to generate interest in contributing.

faces, and a good showing will help their chances with steady offense despite the absence of returning regulars Kirby Owen
and Anna Hutchinson. Sarah Womack pitched in 32 points, Mitzi Short had 10, and Mike Frankhouser dominated the boards. The
starting lineup had Carol Heppner and Mitzi Short at guards, Mike Frankhouser at center, and Sarah and Jean Womack at
forwards. However, Coach Roberts said this lineup was "definitely subject to change because Kirby Owen and Anna Hutchinson could be
starting" in later games. This brings out the team’s strong point—depth. Roberts stated, "We are about ten deep. Nobody's really
too weak to start. The potential's there, all they need is confidence." She added that the first games of the
season—the first five in Johnston Gym—will hopefully afford a chance to give everyone some playing time and get the team
settled before the hardest part of the season in January.

January's schedule will include perennial Division III contender Bennett College (Davidson's women compete at Division III, in which member schools
don't offer scholarships) and last year's North Carolina Division III champions N. C. Wesleyan. Wesleyan, according to Suzie Roberts, will
be the toughest competition.
