THE DAVIDSONIAN — Magna Vis Veritatis

December 14, 1979

Davidson, N.C.

Volume LXIX, Number 11.

Faculty approves 15 percent anti-inflation pay increase in 1980-81 College budget

By GLENN KELLUM
Staff Correspondent

Faculty compensation and high fuel costs will be major problems in formulating the proposed 1980-81 College budget, according to Comptroller
Robert Davidson. A committee of top-level administrators will present the proposed budget to the Trustees in February for their final
approval.

The Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) approved a request Wednesday for a 15% average increase
in faculty compensation. According to a report by the chapter’s Compensation Committee, “This figure will do no more than make
up for the shortfall in 1979-80, in a year in which inflation should run to at least 10%.”

Religion Professor David Kaylor, also chairman of the Davidson AAUP chapter, said the request was a very modest one. Kaylor
noted that despite a 7% average raise last year, faculty compensation declined about 5%. About 50% of the faculty are
members of the AAUP.

When asked about the AAUP report, Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said, “There can’t be any announcement of
increase without Trustee approval.” Zimmermann would not venture further comments.

Holding and McCall take Union elections

By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

By a margin of only three votes, Julie Holding defeated Kevin Wheelock in last Tuesday’s campus-wide Union Presidency election. Holding,
a junior, polled 287 votes to Wheelock’s 284. Ben McCall, also a junior, defeated David McClean in the race for
the Union Social Committee Chairmanship. Sophomore Carol Impara ran unopposed for the Union Co-Curricular Committee chairmanship.

McCall has served on the Union’s dance and concert committees, as well as helped organize several special events. He said
his goal as Social Committee chairman is to increase the number of activities the Union sponsors and plan those activities
more carefully. “I hope to receive the cooperation of Patterson Court in the scheduling of events,” McCall said. “In the
past, certain weekends were filled with many activities while the next week- (See Elections, page 2)

Coeds went caroling this week, as did many other campus and community groups. (Michael Kehs)

Cambodia fund drive is just short of $10,000 goal

By PETER JONES
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Cambodia fund drive is rolling right along, according to Dean of Students Will Terry. Terry said approximately $7500 had
been raised toward the $10,000 goal as of Wednesday night. The money will go towards feeding the starving people of
Cambodia, where more than two and one half million have already died in the past six months.

Terry, who was optimistic that the goal would be reached, noted that some of the money has yet to be
counted. Proceeds from the drama workshop presentations Ah, Eurydice and The Creation of the World and Other Business and a
900 Room benefit are not included in the $7500 figure. Terry said most of the donations so far have come
from student and Patterson Court donations, but noted that many faculty members have yet to be approached.

The 1987 Program works toward a goal that is forever inflated

By JOHN SIMAN
Assistant News Editor

The $35 million contribution goal of the 11-year Davidson 1987 Program is an obsolete figure, according to Vice President for
Development Duane Dittman. “We're going to have to raise far more than $35 million to do what we planned to
do,” Dittman said. The 1987 Program was begun in 1976 to help finance current operations, endowments, and construction up to
Davidson's hundred and fiftieth anniversary. So far...The program is "somewhere near on schedule," Dittman said. An average of almost $3.2
million must be raised annually to reach the $35 million mark. Giving between fiscal 1977 and 1978 (inclusive) averaged over
$2.54 million, according to figures released by the Development Office. The contribution goal was estimated in 1975. Since then, inflation
has made cost projections unrealistic. "Everything costs more than anyone anticipated in 1976," Dittman said. Nevertheless, $35 million will remain
as the program’s nominal—though not actual—goal. "The way inflation is running now, we'd have to change our goal every year,"
Dittman said. Dittman declined to cite a more realistic goal. "We can’t foresee the rate of inflation for the next
eight years," he explained. Fundraising is "not an exact science," he later added.

The 1987 program is designed to strengthen Davidson financially in three areas: general, annual aid to the college (a $10
million nominal goal); creation of endowments for professorships, scholarships, and library support (a $9 million nominal goal); and construction and
renovation of campus buildings (a $6 million nominal goal). "This is by far the broadest program Davidson has ever had,"
Dittman said.

Dittman said the 1987 program has recently been criticized for placing too much importance on one area over another. He
attributed the criticism to the publicity the Commons and proposed new dormitories have received lately. The 1987 program includes seven
building projects, according to data released by the Development Office. A new Fine Arts building, the College Commons, renovation of
Martin Science Building (completed), a math wing addition for Martin, a sports complex, new dormitories, and a new shop and
warehouse were proposed in 1979.

Dittman pointed out that despite the publicity given to building projects, Davidson has received "at least three" endowed professorships since
the start of the 1987 program. Also, the College has recently received a $500,000 challenge grant from the National Endowment
for the Humanities. Dittman emphasized the importance of gifts to the College. "Gifts account for 10 percent of our annual
budget," he said. "Also, each student benefits from over $2,000 per year in gifts."

Dittman declined to speculate about the chances of Trustee approval of a faculty pay increase. According to the minutes of
the Trustee Executive Committee meeting of October 5, College President Samuel Spencer "strongly urged the Trustees to concentrate their efforts
as a Board and as individuals."

Cartmill Fires Soccer Coach Karl Kremser
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Kremser has apparently been fired. Although official word of the decision is not due until Saturday, Kremser said Athletic Director
Thomas Cartmill told him Tuesday his contract will not be renewed. Cartmill declined to confirm or deny Kremser’s story. He
said, "Nothing is official until the Dean of the College (referring to Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman) makes it
official." Zimmerman refused to comment on the decision, saying his office does not discuss personnel matters.

Kremser declined to speculate as to why he was fired. He said he wanted to remain silent until he has
a chance to appeal the decision. "I like the school; I like the people," he said. "I don’t want to
leave."

Kremser, who has been coaching soccer at Davidson since the program’s revival three years ago, was named Southern Conference Coach
of the Year this past season. The soccer team had an 8-13 win-loss record this fall, yet three years ago
the team finished 0-16 and 5-10-1 last year.

Most soccer team members The Davidsonian contacted were very upset by the decision. "After we've come so far in the
last two years," team member C.K. Nichols said, "now they’re just going to let the program go."
