May 11, 1979—The Davidsonian—5

RIESE Awards
Bill Peeples

There are many unsung student heroes and leaders who, for lack of recognition, hold an annual spring picnic to pat each other on the back. They run the College Union and all its functions. The food was great at this year’s Tuesday evening gathering, though it was provided by master chef Ron Scott. Corn-on-the-cob, pork and beans, incredible slaw, delectable hush puppies, and barbecued chicken and ribs were a just and welcomed reward for a bunch of hard workers.

Everybody either currently or previously involved in Union activities came—desk workers, 900 Room technicians, secretaries, janitors, Union Board officers and committee chairmen, even Shaw Smith and William Brown. Though a major campus leader recently told the Union board that he was unaware of several Union functions, including the Dorm Social committee and contract negotiations for the “Texas Chainsaw Massacre,” each of the seventy guests knew everything no one ever wanted to know about the Union.

Once all the picnickers had successfully gorged themselves, compliments of ARA Slater’s better side, Assistant Director of the Union William Brown was the master of ceremonies for a most unexpected awards presentation. These ‘awards’ were quite devious and dubious, and since William is taking a vacation at Aspen all next year, he felt quite secure in presenting them. William gave everybody at the outing an award, and though for many of them “‘you had to be there,’’ some are worth repeating.

1) The Socialite Award: several Davidson women received this treasure, but as Bad Bernard and Bonehead will readily admit, Amanda Hall was the standout.
2) The Minor Sinclair Hustler Award: Whit Boone wins hands down because, as Brown proclaimed, he is the king of the game room billiards.
3) The Night Owl Award: we all know that after Rusty Vester locks up at night, this night manager meticulously counts drinking straws in the Snack Bar.
4) The Clark Kent Award: John Monroe, Martin Kerr, and Richard Terry are the proud winners.
5) The Silver Tongue Award: David Huie is a co-winner for talking a Charlotte limousine service into chauffeuring a Davidson couple to dinner for two in Charlotte. Sid Barrett shares the honors for convincing several departmental chairmen to donate their funds to the Fine Films series.
6) The Best Legs Award: there were six finalists for this high honor, granted to the squad that litters the campus with posters, including Sue Woody, Benita Franklin, Claire Abernathy, Jeff Williams, Amanda Hall, and Randy Harwell.

Other awards were Best Hanger Arounder, Most Creative Publicity, Best Bust, Most Likely to Succeed, Serene Bell, Most Likely to be Stood Up, Most Popular Films Chairman, Rookie of the Year, Chairman 4-Ever, Dancing Fool, Purple Heart, Red Cross, 20th Century Gutenberg, and Most Likely to Change Their Names. The respective winners were: Susan Bane; Mark Duckett; Al Rak, Winnie the Pooh; Jim Robertson, Julia Pidgeon, and Jamie Ashmore; Lorna Amaturo; Al Rak; Ann Reed and Bill Peeples; Scott Smith; John Trout; Bill Barnett; Laurie Campbell and Julie Bone; Mark Carpenter; David Webb, John Morrison, and Amanda Hall; and Bad Bernard and Bonehead.

Bill Peeples is the Executive Editor of The Davidsonian. (Gia Partain)

What Is A Lampoon?
John W. Gresham

The recently published “A Guide To Courses At Davidson,” and the resulting furor prompts this defense of Mr. Erwin’s work. I've read the Guide and found the sections range from delightful to sophomoric with an edge to the sophomoric. My final opinion was that Mr. Erwin and his cohorts had, with some struggle, carried off their undertaking. However, the quality of the work, a recognized type of satire known as lampoon, has not been the issue. From the remarks of President Spencer to the letters to The Davidsonian, the response has centered upon the crude, tasteless, and offensive nature of the Guide. An attack on a lampoon based on these grounds reveals that the critic does not approve of or understand the literary form. Lampoon is defined as a sharp, often virulent satire directed against an individual or institution, which ridicules severely the character or behavior of a person or institution. A lampoon is often political or personal in nature and characterized by the malice or virulence of its attack. Consider the historical context which has given rise to these definitions.The ancient Greek satirist Archilochus composed invective iambic that supposedly led its targets, Lycambus and his daughter, to hang themselves. The legendary Irish satirist, Aithirne the Importunate, traveled from one Irish kingdom to another demanding tribute from those who feared his satire. When he arrived at the kingdom of Leinster he demanded—on threat of satire—to sleep with the queen. The king, having as much solicitude for his honor as Dr. Spencer, et al., apparently have for that of the Davidson faculty, capitulated to this demand, noting that “I gave her to thee for honor’s sake.” Also, note what has been said of the works of the modern satirist, Roy Campbell. His attack on the artistic world of London, entitled “The Georgiad” is “cruel, offensive, and given enough distance, very funny.” (The source for this information on satire is The Power Of Satire by Robert C. Elliot. It is available in the Davidson library.)

I would suggest that while the work of Erwin and crew is occasionally cruel and offensive, it is also, given enough distance, funny. This may be faint praise for the neophyte satirist, but it at least recognizes the legitimacy of the effort. Moreover, I would suggest that given the manner in which Mr. Erwin has been reprimanded and stripped of his editorial post, Davidson has silently adopted a policy that allows for the study but not the practice of satire. This is an intolerable standard for an educational institution that prides itself on its standing in the academic community.

Given that a lampoon is crude and offensive, is there any reason to aim such a piece at the Davidson faculty? I believe that there is, for I perceive that Davidson’s faculty, like most institutions, is more interested in preserving and extending its influence and reputation than in changing its ways. And I believe that some of its ways need changing. Because of the similarity in background of most of the faculty, i.e. good mind, good degree, good breeding, good faith, etc., there is a certain smugness among those who have joined this elite. This smugness is coupled with what I perceive as a hesitancy to question the capabilities of one’s associates. Upon appointment, the faculty member learns to live with his colleagues’ foibles and to keep in mind that he who gets along with his colleagues will in all probability remain at his post until predestination calls.

I think that any Davidson graduate of the past twenty years can attest to the fact that at times this tradition has led to rather lackluster instruction. Additionally, I think that in recent years a certain hypocrisy has wormed its way into the institution. A faculty member can now espouse the traditional values of the Southern Protestant while maintaining the right, as the old limerick goes, “to do which and with what and to whom.” He must only remember to exercise this right quietly and to be seen at an established church on Sunday. I recognize that there are a goodly number of faculty members who both excel in their work and live according to their staid beliefs. These criticisms are made only to point out that the Davidson faculty collectively is an appropriate target for a lampoon. This literary form is made all the more appropriate by the fact that the faculty as well as the students and the administration at Davidson tend to take themselves too seriously. Such a tendency is best attacked by a lampoon which by its nature rankles, irritates, and gets under the skin. The roar which accompanied the Guide’s publication suggests to me that it has at least pricked its target.

The result of satire is to arouse both the target’s anger at the satirist and its uneasiness at the seeds of truth contained in the satire. The appropriate Latin phrase is sometimes stated as “inde ira et lacrimae.” Charles Erwin has felt the anger of the institution attacked. Let’s hope that the accompanying uneasiness (or even guilt if the term is still meaningful) will flower into a bit of change. In any event, Mr. Erwin, the retribution you have been subjected to is actually rather mild when you consider that earlier satirists have been banished, beaten, and upon occasion executed. Your work shows flair and guts and I commend you for your effort.

John Gresham, ‘67, is an attorney in Charlotte.