2—The Davidsonian—November 30, 1979

The College Directory, which has been delayed for several reasons, is scheduled to arrive next week for distribution, according to
Communications Director Martha Roberts.

Roberts is responsible for the directory, which includes the name, address, and phone numbers of all students, faculty, and staff.
Roberts admitted that the publication is behind schedule, but she said, “It is not really substantially later than usual.”

The Directory has usually appeared sometime during the fall term.

According to Roberts, there are three major reasons why the directory has been delayed. “First, the process of getting the
phone numbers is complex and very time-consuming,” she said. A list must be posted for some time in the Union
to gather the names of all students using each phone.

Second, the process was hampered when the list was torn from the wall and lost. After this incident, the entire
procedure had to be repeated.

The final factor causing the delay involves the printing company. Roberts said the printers are slower than usual this year.
She attributed their slowness to a business slowdown and layoffs at the company.

Roberts offered several suggestions to allow earlier publication of the directory. She said that a compulsory meeting could be held
in which the needed data could be collected. If that could not be arranged, she suggested, “Perhaps some service organization
would volunteer to help collect the information.”

Roberts said, “Accumulating the material is the biggest cause of the slowdown. If we had a faster way to collect
the data, the directory would be out much earlier.”

Union Director Shaw Smith said he was very glad to hear that the Directory will come out soon.

Requests for students’ telephone numbers keep the Union telephone lines constantly tied up, thereby “falsely making it look as if
we aren’t doing our jobs,” Smith said.

Grades are out.

(Brad Kerr)

SGA announces campus elections for December 11

By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

Campus-wide elections for twelve offices, as well as nine positions on the Honor Council, will be held Tuesday, December 11th.

The offices to be filled will be Union President, Union Social Committee Chairman, Union Co-Curricular Committee Chairman, and YM/YWCA President,
Vice President, Secretary, and Treasurer. The Freshman Advisers and the editors for The Davidsonian, Miscellany, Quips and Cranks, and Wildcat
Handbook will be elected also. Three students from each of the rising sophomore, junior, and senior classes will also be
elected to the Honor Council.

Candidates must sign up in the Dean of Students’ office before 4 p.m. Tuesday, December 4th. Campaigning will be allowed
between the end of the sign-up period and election day. Anyone with questions concerning the election should contact SGA President
John Jackson.

SGA preparing course evaluation and pre-professional handbook for first-term freshmen

By KEVIN WHEELOCK
Staff Writer

The SGA Course Evaluation Committee is preparing to publish academic advice for incoming freshmen, according to Committee President Diane Odom.

By conducting a survey of what courses are normally taken by first-term freshmen and what the workload of such courses
is, the committee hopes to compile information helpful to future students, Odom said. The committee will also publish a comprehensive
guide for pre-medicine, pre-law, and pre-ministerial students. Both the course survey and the guide will be mailed to rising freshmen
in the same envelope as the fall term sign-up sheet.

The committee has designed a form for the course survey which will be completed by department chairmen. The form does
not evaluate either professors or courses. Rather, it describes course workload, specifying the number of reviews, the length of papers,
and the amount of studying to be expected in a given course, Odom said.

Faculty response has been very favorable, Odom said. She expects the committee to complete the survey by Christmas break.

The guide for pre-professional students will inform freshmen about opportunities in and requirements for entry into various professions, Odom said.
The pre-professional pamphlets (See SGA, page 11)

Avinger to quit teaching at return

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

Economics Professor Robert Avinger has announced he will not resume full-time teaching at Davidson after his sabbatical this year.

Avinger, who is presently conducting research at the London School of Economics, will become a partner in a Charlotte investment
consulting firm upon his return to the United States.

Avinger will continue to live in Davidson and said he might “teach a course or two if the opportunity arises.”
The firm, Investment Management, Inc., manages pension funds and several other types of portfolios. Avinger said he has been on
the firm’s Board of Directors for approximately five years. He will become one of four partners when he begins work
next fall.

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE DAVIDSONIAN may be obtained by writing: Rates: 1 year $6, 2 years $11

THE VILLAGE STORE
