‘Notes on Students’

Autumn Sonata: good, New Faces

As always, new faces appear on campus each quarter. Some are here for only a quarter, and others are here
to stay. The visiting Rusk Scholars are Thurstan Bannister, Michael Creamer, Emma Crichton-Miller, Belinda Folliott-Vaughan, Justin Jenk, Claire Seddon, and
Robert C. Stamp. Three junior transfers are Peter Hairston from Stanford University, Lucy Kinne from the University of Vermont, and
Winnifred Smith from the University of Georgia. Don Matthews from Appalachian State University and Sally Neal from Emory University are
both sophomore transfers.

Philadelphia Urban Semester

Nona Cleghorn, Mariellen Sawada, and Amy Edmunds are participating in the Philadelphia Urban Semester this quarter.

Guys and Dolls

The cast for Guys and Dolls, the spring drama production, has been selected and has been rehearsing since the quarter
began. Students in the cast include Wyatt Alston, Carolyn Barnett, James Baskin, Alex Bass, Tom Bessellieu, Janet Ward Black, Esther
Bruce, Lyman Collins, Peter Collins, Chris Conrad, Glen Darbyshire, Cindy Faulkenberry, Mimi Fleming, Phoebe Forio, Benita Franklin, and Peter Hairston.
Other students involved are Jack Hall, Betsy Holton, Chuck Luecker, Clay Macaulay, Penny Mandell, Gail Maynard, Eddie Pollock, Joan Redding,
John Richards, Joel Shirk, Lana Sims, Beverly Smith, Chris Swofford, Mark C. Tomas, Tommy Thompson, Jamie Watt, and Karen Weir.
Student performances will be Thursday, April 26, and Wednesday, May 2. Other performances will be April 27, 28, and May
3, 4, 5.

The orchestra will include:
Percussion: Glenn Simpson, Lex Alexander, Doug Crosby, and Linc Ely;
Woodwinds: Part I Sandra Ording, Alice Musick, Charles Askins; Part II David Banks; Part III Ralph Mosca; Part IV Karen
Szindlin, Bill Coward; Part V Steve Lewis;
Violins: Margaret Karis, Lucy Long, Tandy Gilliland;
Trumpets: Randy Hutten, John Lawry, Andy Williams;
Cello: Susan Davidson;
Bass: Martha Sanford;
Trombone: Stuart Baskin;
Horn: Lisa Harbottle.

By SID BARRETT
Staff Writer

Autumn Sonata is now playing at the Park Terrace Theater. Show times are 3, 4:40, 6:20, 8, and 9:40. Putting
together two Bergmans and two Ullmans seems like a combination that can’t miss. And deliver it does, in what is
possibly director Ingmar Bergman’s best film in years. Autumn Sonata is at once a complex and compelling work, both intellectual
and emotional in its power and beauty. The subject matter is drawn from Bergman’s strongest suit, the intricate relationship between
love, hate, and guilt, between freedom and dependency.

The story line is deceptively simple. Eva (Ullman), the wife of a pastoral minister (Bjork), has invited her mother to
visit, as they have not seen each other for seven years. The mother, Charlotte (Ingrid Bergman), is a well-known and
busy concert pianist. Their initial meeting is a rush of happy, childlike emotions; yet these emotions betray an undercurrent of
wariness and fear that warn of approaching confrontation. The action of the film takes place in one day and night,
almost entirely within the confines of Eva’s house. Beginning with the casual conversations about recent events in the lives of
the two women, the tension and hostility start to reveal themselves. As successive layers of protective half-lies and defenses fall
away under Eva’s...

President's Assistant Expands Organizing Ability

By TAINE ALLISON
Asst. Features Editor

Of all the offices in Chambers building, there is one that is reserved for a Davidson graduate. Each year, the
Assistant to the President is chosen from applicants in the senior class. The job is a mixture of important responsibilities
and minor duties, says Cindy McDowell, the current President’s assistant. She feels that being conscientious and well-organized is the key
to doing the job well. (If you are interested in applying, you must talk with her by April 2nd.)

The major tasks of the Assistant to the President involve the Stuart Scholarship Program and Spring Convocation. For Trustee meetings,
the Assistant is in charge of making up the weekend schedule, writing out agendas for each meeting, and even planning
the menus. Stuart Scholarship candidates are indebted to the President’s Assistant for arranging transportation, menus, and activities during their stay
at Davidson. Spring Convocation programming and planning are left entirely to the President’s Assistant. Weeks of preparation go into engaging
speakers and coordinating meetings and processes for Convocation.

The President’s Assistant serves as an important link between the students, the administration, and Dr. Spencer. The President’s Assistant is
a good representative for the students, having just graduated himself. Students can voice complaints and suggestions to the Assistant who
has access to the President even when he is tied up with meetings and appointments. In serving on some administrative
committees, the Assistant can offer the students’ perspective on particular problems. Communication between the President and students is encouraged by
open-ends with the student body and meetings with each freshman hall during the fall term, organized by Dr. Spencer’s assistant.

Clearly, the Assistant’s job is a big help to the administration; it is also a valuable internship for the student.
Rick Love, the Assistant to the President three years ago, is still working in college administration. Others have used the
position as a year of practical training before beginning graduate school. Like many others, Cindy McDowell plans to go to
law school after her term as the President’s Assistant. The first woman to hold the position, Ms. McDowell feels she
has been accepted without the slightest hesitation from either the administration or the Trustees. Her job has been a rewarding
one. Not only has she sharpened her organizational skills, but as Assistant...to the President, Ms. McDowell has gained a broader
perspective of Davidson. She works on an informal basis with the editor of The Davidsonian and with the SGA to
clarify controversial issues as they arise. One example is her WDAV "Rumor Sheet" written fall-term to make the facts of
the situation available to the student body. Ms. McDowell’s participation in the administration has shown her the hard work involved
in maintaining a college. She feels that her experience has strengthened her support of Davidson.

As the true nature of their conflict becomes apparent, it is a conflict that began with Eva’s birth, and one
that cannot be avoided now. Eva begins to accuse and assault her mother, slowly releasing her fury at the years
of neglect and suffocation. Charlotte, herself insecure and unable to face the responsibility of love, gropes desperately for a way
out. But she cannot escape the responsibility for the past, symbolized in the wretched, spastic disease that is taking the
life of her youngest daughter Helena, whom Eva and her husband care for. In the end, it is Eva who
learns to live with the hate and the love she harbors for her mother, and it is Charlotte who learns
to ask forgiveness.

The film is almost a non-stop verbal confrontation between Eva and Charlotte. Cinematographer Sven Nykvist, who worked with Bergman on
The Seventh Seal and Persona, spent untold effort and care to follow every shade and nuance of the script’s emotion
and doubt. One of the scenes most eloquent in showing us the complex relationship of mother and daughter relies very
little on dialogue. It begins with Eva at the piano, performing a hesitant Chopin prelude for her mother. Charlotte then
takes the keyboard and, lecturing to her daughter as if she were a schoolgirl, plays the same piece with an
unmistakable depth and authority.

One wishes, though, that Bergman would find novel means of carrying us into these violent inner conflicts. The intense claustrophobia
aroused by many scenes, particularly those involving the crippled and dying Helena, prompt the audience to look for release rather
than the inner reality. And his usual means of endowing his characters with guilt—the abortions, affairs, marriages without life—are beginning
to take on a formula, set-piece effect. Liv Ullman and Ingrid Bergman, in their stunning performances of nerve-wracking emotion, are
to be credited with most of the new twists in director Bergman’s continuing exploration of the psyche.

This is a film that demands to be taken on its own terms; moviegoers expecting to be entertained will instead
find themselves drawn into the vortex of a life-or-death struggle between the closest of enemies, a terse and unrelenting combat
that leaves the audience as exhausted as the actresses. For Eva and Charlotte, there is no escape from the consequences
of the past; Bergman refuses to let us off any easier.

Time executive to speak
By MATTHEW COVINGTON
Special to the Davidsonian

Statistics do a poor job of describing the 1979 Woodrow Wilson Lecturer, Joan D. Manley. She is a humble woman
who feels that she has done nothing innovative in her field, considers herself a good manager only because the large
business she runs operates at a "reasonable" profit and employs "reasonably happy" people, and she often contemplates a comfortable retirement.
But for Manley, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Time-Life Books Inc., statistics are unavoidable. She is
the most highly paid woman in American business. Her total compensation for 1976 was $203,000. Her company earns almost half
of Time Inc.'s total profits each year, or about 50 million. At 46, she is the youngest of Fortune Magazine’s
selections for the top 10 women in business. In fact, she is the youngest female chief executive among the nation’s
1300 largest companies.

Manley, who is responsible for all book publishing activities for Time Inc., began her publishing career as a secretary. While
a senior at the University of California at Berkeley she took stenography, which she now refers to as a “smart
move.” She developed her secretarial skills because she wanted to be as fully prepared for a profession as possible. She
advises women today to do the same, although being prepared today may mean an advanced degree instead of shorthand. After
becoming Assistant to the Publisher at Penguin, she joined Time Inc. in 1960. In July 1970 she was appointed Publisher
of Time-Life Books, in July 1971 she was elected as Time Inc.'s first female Vice President, and in October 1975,
she became Time’s first female Group Vice President. In January 1978 Mrs. Manley was elected to Time Inc.’s Board of
Directors.

Manley will be on the Davidson College campus from Monday afternoon, April 2 through Friday morning, April 6. Highlights of
her visit will be several open discussions to be held in the Union and a public discussion Tuesday night on
the “Role of Conglomerates in Media.” She will also take part in the Spring Series of discussions; Men and Women:
Changing Roles. As part of this series she will speak at a Wednesday open luncheon in the 900 Room on
“The Role of Women Executives.” Wednesday evening Mrs. Manley will join a panel of women from various careers in the
900 Room for a discussion of “Integration of Family and Career.” Thursday afternoon, Mrs. Manley will hold a joint conversation
with syndicated columnist Ellen Goodman.
