Best Food East of Tulsa
—pizza Mon-Wed 11-2:30 5-8:00
—hoagies Thurs-Sat 11-2:30
—homemade Quiche 5-12
—American & Import beer
—Inglencok Wines
Happy Hour & A Half Every Thursday & Friday Night 8:30-10:00
892-8686

(Continued from Page 1)

Without giving the entire plot away, let me say briefly that Sophie's Choice is a story about a Polish Catholic
survivor of Auschwitz, Sophie Zawistowka; her extremely intelligent but mentally erratic Jewish lover, Nathan Landau (who cannot forgive her for
surviving the death camp in which so many Jews perished); and the narrator, Stingo, a struggling young Southern writer who
creates the third point of an unbalanced triangle by falling lustfully in love with Sophie. Stingo meets the unfortunate couple
in a Brooklyn boarding house in the summer of 1947 when he takes a room beneath that of Sophie and
Nathan and is kept awake by the amorous creaking of their bedsprings. As the summer wears on, the relationships and
interplay between the three intensify, and Sophie feels more and more the need to unburden the story of her past
and her fears about Nathan to some supposedly objective outsider. It is Stingo to whom she turns, spilling out her
horror story in broken English. The story Stingo tells (written somewhat later than 1947 but never specified) is of his
growth and journey to partial understanding of the terrible, baffling evil of the Holocaust — and his return to what
can never be quite a normal world again. The book is basically a novel of advanced adolescence, painful for adolescents,
since both Nathan and Sophie as well as Stingo are seeking, as Andre Malraux writes in one of the epigraphs
to the book, "that essential region of the soul, where absolute evil confronts brotherhood." The character of Stingo, the struggling
writer, was modeled after the young William Styron. And the basic idea for Sophie's Choice came from a real incident.
Styron told James Atlas of The New York Times Book Review (May 27, 1979) that "It [the story] was suggested
by a mere germ of experience, really. I had been living in a boarding house in Brooklyn one summer just
after the war and such a girl lived on the floor above me; she was beautiful but ravaged. I never
got to know her very well, since I left only a few weeks after her arrival, but I was moved
by her plight. Then, about five years ago, I awoke one morning with a remembrance of the girl; a vivid
dream haunted my mind. The novel I

(Continued from Page 1)

tive professors has also acted to depress salaries, Spencer said, yet he added, "We should not take advantage of the
fact that the market is so unfavorable for academic people." Spencer offered no solutions to the problem, saying that future
salary levels depend mostly on the economy. He did predict that "Something will certainly be done at the February Trustees’
meeting, but I don’t know what." Spencer said he does not feel the decline in thefaculty’s real income has affected
Davidson's quality of education. He said he does possibly foresee a decline in educational quality by losing good new professors
to universities. On the whole, however, Spencer feels Davidson’s educational quality will stay close to its present level. “Faculty morale
is low across the country,” Spencer said. Yet he feels Davidson’s goal should be to “stay even with the best
colleges in the country.”

Religion Professor David Kaylor said that although salary levels have not yet hurt Davidson's academic quality, “If this downward trend
continues over the long run it will have a very detrimental effect on the educational program.” Kaylor said he has
already detected a decline in faculty morale due to the decline in real faculty income. Kaylor explained that “The faculty
is much less convinced that the College is really doing as much as it can for the faculty. The faculty
feels unappreciated.” “These kinds of feelings inevitably affect the performance of everyone in their roles,” he continued.

Alexander McKelway noted that salaries are not going too well, and he suddenly sensed that he had been given a
mandate to abandon his intended career. Salaries are not going too well, and I suddenly sensed that I had been
given a mandate to abandon my intended career.

“Her story” is currently in the top five books on the New York Times bestseller list. It is a Book-of-the-Month
Club selection and has been optioned by a group of filmmakers. Styron attended Davidson College for a year before the
outbreak of World War II; after the war, he completed his studies at Duke University. On Tuesday and Wednesday, October
30 and 31, he will return to Davidson to meet with professors and students and to give a reading from
some of his works in Love Auditorium. There will be a sign-up dinner at 6 pm Tuesday evening, coffee and
conversation at 10 am Wednesday morning in the Morrison Room, and a reception in the Morrison Room following the public
reading Wednesday evening.

Kaylor spoke of “half a dozen or so” faculty members who are already looking for careers outside education. Kaylor noted
that the College may have difficulties attracting new professors away from large universities. He said, “Relative to other colleges we
are not doing so badly, but we are at an increasing (compensation) disadvantage in relation to other universities.”

Professors said many factors contributed to the present level of compensation. French Professor Hallam Walker said poor budget priorities have
contributed to the problem. He said, “We could do with less building and more attention to faculty salaries.” He also
questioned the wisdom of present College athletic expenditures, as did Kaylor, McKelway, and Classics Professor Mark Davies. Kaylor said he
feels the College concentrates too much of its fundraising efforts toward funding physical facilities. “The development staff is only a
certain size and if it puts time and energy into fundraising for buildings, other things will be hurt.”

Spencer said the College is trying to raise funds in both the educational and physical plant areas. He said that
efforts may have concentrated toward building recently because, “Construction costs are going up so rapidly that it is best to
build as quickly as we can.”
