THE DAVIDSONIAN Magna Vis Veritatis Volume LXIX, Number 4 Davidson College, December 7, 1979

Two Davidson students, one alumnus arrested at Barnwell protest

By JOHN BOSWELL
Staff Writer

Two Davidson students and a recent graduate were arrested Monday for trespassing at a nuclear power installation in Barnwell County,
South Carolina. The students were taking part in a series of anti-nuclear demonstrations last weekend. Barnwell County is the site
of three nuclear power installations: Allied-General Nuclear Services (AGNS) reprocessing plant, Chem-Nuclear Systems low-level radioactive waste burial ground, and the
federal government’s Savannah River plant.

Junior Geoff Little, freshman Brian McMaster, and Brian Jacobs '79 were all arrested at the AGNS plant site. More than
150 other protestors were arrested on Monday at all three sites. Little and Jacobs spent two nights in the Barnwell
jail before being released early Wednesday morning. McMaster was taken to the Walterboro jail, approximately fifty miles away. He was
released about noon Wednesday. About sixty of those arrested were still in jail Wednesday. Six other Davidson students protested at
Barnwell but were not arrested.

Most protestors who were arrested, including Little, Jacobs, and McMaster, elected to stay in jail rather than pay bail because
of a disagreement with the South Carolina Attorney General's office. Those arrested expected bond to be minimal as the result
of a supposed agreement between protest group lawyers and law enforcement officials. “They supposedly had a deal with the courts
that it would be $10,” said sophomore Susan Marynowski, one of the protestors.

Speaking over the phone from Barnwell, Little said the lawyers had not really arranged an agreement, but that a $10
or $15 bond had been expected. The protestors had planned to stay in jail if the bond exceeded $15, Little
said. The bond was $25. A spokesman for the Attorney General’s office in Columbia, South Carolina, said there was no
agreement with the protestors' lawyers because no such agreement could legally be made. “Setting bond is the prerogative of the
magistrate,” said the spokesman. He said the Attorney General’s office would not have objected to a $10 bond; however, they
would not have objected to a $100 bond either. Fifteen dollars was the bond set for those arrested in a
similar protest last year in Barnwell. According to the Attorney General’s office, $25 is the average bail for trespassing.

Sponsored by the Southeastern Natural Guard, the weekend of protests included an alternative energy fair on Saturday, a protest march
Sunday along Highway 64 to the three nuclear installations, and mass civil disobedience Monday at the three sites. The demonstrations
were carefully planned out and arranged, according to Marynowski. “Affinity groups” led the protests. Such groups had been trained in
how to run non-violent protests and in how to act when arrested.

Other groups (See Barnwell, page 2)

Tenure topic awaits Trustees

By PETER JONES
Staff Correspondent

The tenure decisions of last May will be a major topic of discussion when the Board of Trustees meets Thursday
and Friday, according to Senior Cathy Ansheles. Sociology Professor Norm Koller, Political Science Professor Joseph Retzer, and English Professor Georgianna
Ziegler were all denied tenure last spring by the Trustees. The decisions made on the Administration’s recommendation met with displeasure
among students and faculty.

Thursday morning, Ansheles, Senior Tommy Thompson and Junior Eric Christensen along with a group of professors will meet with several
trustees to discuss the tenure decisions. The professors are Religion Professor David Kaylor, Philosophy Professor Earl MacCormac, and Philosophy Professor
Robert Maydole. The group has been allotted a half-hour for the meeting. According to Maydole, the professors were requested to
accompany the students because the students lacked official channels to meet with the Trustees. Also, Maydole (See Trustees, page 2)

Cartmill plans new athletic complex

By TIM WHALEN
Staff Correspondent

Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill is now drawing up tentative plans for a new athletic complex to relieve overcrowding in current
facilities.beat “The Sex Ratio Problem.” To see how other students react to the ratio, see page 6.

Decision faces one more vote

Student Conduct Council votes in new honor pledge

By MEBANE ATWOOD
Staff Correspondent

The Student Conduct Council (SCC) voted unanimously last Tuesday to require students to write out a new form of the
honor pledge on all major classwork, according to Dean of Students Will Terry. (Exam envelopes already include a copy of
the pledge). The new honor pledge reads: “I pledge that I have neither given nor received help on this (review,
paper, etc.), nor have I observed any violation on the part of others.”

According to Terry, the SCC will vote again on the proposal in October so the members will have two weeks
to re-examine their decision.

The Proposal

Since the vote was unanimous, the chance of the proposal being rejected is very slim, Terry said. Terry made the
proposal at the SCC meeting Tuesday. Originally, the proposal was developed and recommended to Terry on September 16 during the
Judicial Retreat, a meeting of faculty and students involved with Honor Code policy. The proposal was made with the intention
of reinforcing students’ awareness of the honor pledge, Terry said.

SCC Student Representative Ann Eglin said of the proposal, “It’s a really positive step in the effort to preserve the
spirit of honor that already exists at the College.”

Johnston Gym and the football parking lots. The complex would include a new intramural gym, more parking spaces, and more
outdoor athletic fields. Cartmill said he will present his plans this weekend to the Trustees. Development Director Duane Dittman said
he does not expect final approval of the plans before May, if at all.

According to Cartmill, the gym would probably stand where the football practice field is now, and the parking lots would
be added near the football stadium. Cartmill said the new complex is needed largely because the number of students has
increased while facilities have not been expanded. The new athletic fields are planned merely to replace those over which the
new gym would be built. Cartmill feels the new facilities will make the College more attractive to prospective students interested
in recreational athletics.

Dittman said the cost of the complex could not be estimated because it is still in the very early stages
of planning, but he guesses a price of several million dollars. He added that all money for the project will
come from alumni and friends of the College. Cartmill said that there are “no plans to take anything out of
the operational budget.”

The idea of such a complex was approved in 1976 by the Trustees as part of the Davidson 1987 program.
Cartmill said his proposal describes what would ideally be included in the complex. He said he expects the Trustees to
scale down these plans in light of financial considerations. The new gym would ideally contain three basketball courts, six racquetball
courts, two squash courts, six indoor tennis courts, an indoor track, and NCAA regulation swimming and diving pools and might
have a sliding roof, Cartmill said.

An architect should be selected within three months, Dittman said. No administrators contacted would estimate when construction might begin.

Erwin starts independent magazine

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

One-time editor of The Davidsonian Charles Erwin is now making plans to publish a magazine of “short stories, poetry, and
satire.” The magazine, called The Albatross, will appear monthly beginning October 16, according to Managing Editor Ted Jones. Erwin will
be Editor-in-chief and Publisher.

Jones said The Albatross was designed as a “creative writing outlet” for its four-member staff, and the student body as
a whole. “We didn’t plan The Albatross as an attempt to compete with Hobart’s Park. This is just something we
wanted to do,” Jones said.

Erwin was Davidsonian editor from January to April of this year, when he was forced to resign as a result
of his role in the untimely supplement to the
