THE DAVIDSONIAN | Volume LXIX, Number 9

Sophomore Jeff Williams revels in his purchase of new books and lollipops for winter term. (Michael Kehs)

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. November 30, 1979

Reasons for refusal vary widely
Faculty rejects student evaluation form
By ELIZABETH KISS
Assistant News Editor

The faculty voted November 6 not to use the standardized ICES forms for student evaluation of professors. The forms, developed by the University of Illinois, had been selected for college-wide use by the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann.

PAC Chairman Anthony Abbott said that the vote reflected a wide variety of objections to the forms. Some professors disapproved of the three “global” questions, which ask students to rate the course content, the instructor, and the course in general, as too subjective and irrelevant. Others felt that any standardized form is inappropriate at Davidson. There was also concern that a mandatory evaluation system would encourage “conformity” in teaching methods.

Religion professor Alexander McKelway said a crucial issue for the faculty was how the forms would be handled. “We need to know how the instructor and the administration can best interpret the evaluations,” he said.

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures states that students must have a voice in faculty evaluation. “The faculty has committed itself to student input into the evaluation process,” Zimmermann said. Now, they have turned down “the best formal system” he and the members of PAC could find. According to Zimmermann, the faculty still wants student evaluation, but wishes to find a better method. “I am waiting for suggestions. Those who were critical of ICES should feel an obligation to come up with an alternative,” he said.

Psychology Professor John Kello said one possible solution would be to appoint a subcommittee of PAC which would include faculty members who objected to the ICES forms. This committee would be re- (See Evaluation, page 11)

College plans to adjust Commons dining hall design
By JOHN SINGLETON
Staff Correspondent

The Building Committee has allocated $20,000 to redesign the conveyor belt in the main dining area of the proposed Commons, in response to several complaints by faculty and students. Under the present plan, the dining area would be divided in two by a conveyor belt carrying trays back to the kitchen.

Union President Jim Robertson said he objected to the plan because the permanent division of the room would make it unsuitable for large social functions such as dances and banquets. Such large social activities are one of the purposes of the Commons dining area, which was designed to be easily convertible from a number of small seating areas to one large room by the removal of wooden partitions.

The conveyor belt would also be only 15 feet from the stairs leading into the dining area. This, according to Robertson, would make it impossible to use the room for a single purpose. The belt would obstruct the path of a person entering the area. A stage or table set up in front of the stairs would increase the problem, blocking all passage between the two sides of the room.

College President Samuel Spencer and Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze met with the architect to discuss alternative designs for the conveyor belt. Meetze said that they are “looking at a couple of possibilities.” The proposed revisions would (See Commons, page 11)

Retzer resigns as of January first; New professor will continue classes
By KENT DYER
Staff Writer

Political Science Professor Joseph Retzer is resigning from teaching at Davidson, effective January first. Dennis (Jody) Encarnation, a PhD candidate in Public Policy at Duke, will assume Retzer’s responsibilities for the rest of the school year, beginning the fourth week of winter term. Retzer plans to teach his courses during the three weeks before Christmas, but will leave Davidson to start work at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in Washington, D.C., soon after the holiday. Retzerwas denied tenure last spring and was given the usual one-year ‘grace period’ at Davidson in which to seek another job. Political Science Department Chairman Harris Proctor said he began seriously considering applicants for the job after Retzer filed his resignation early in November. Retzer subsequently met with Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann and agreed to teach winter term until a suitable replacement could be found. Encarnation, who is presently teaching Urban Politics at UNC-Greensboro, was hired after an interview with Zimmermann and Proctor early last week. When asked about Zimmermann’s decision to install Encarnation in January, Proctor said, “we were happy to help him (Retzer) get settled into EPA as soon after Christmas as possible.”

Retzer did not feel that his resignation in mid-term would create a discontinuity in his courses. Rather, he thought that the addition of Encarnation would add diversity. Retzer said, “Mr. Encarnation’s special knowledge in the area of Public Policy will complement my specialization in Political Psychology. It will give students a better overall exposure to the subject than if I had taught the course alone.” Proctor added that the transition to a new professor would be easier to manage because of the three-week Christmas break. At EPA, Retzer will join Philosophy Professor John Young, who has been on sabbatical in Washington since May, and will be involved in long-range policy analysis. Encarnation will be under contract to teach for winter and spring terms, and may be considered for a permanent position in the Political Science Department next fall.

National Review publishes Davidson student opinion; article’s author denounces own handiwork

By JOHN SIMAN
Assistant News Editor

Fifty-two percent of Davidson students surveyed call themselves conservative, according to the November 23 National Review's cover story. Charles Kesler, the story's author, said the methods used in the poll “...would make a professional pollster grimace.” The poll was conducted by National Review, a conservative, New York-based magazine, in conjunction with Educational Reviewer, Inc., Kesler said. It was taken at twelve colleges and universities from around the country.

Kesler described Davidson in the article as “a small, private, Presbyterian men’s college in rural North Carolina.” He attributed this error to poor information supplied by Educational Reviewer. Kesler emphasized that he was at the mercy of Educational Reviewer’s data. He said the poll itself was “not very scientific” and criticized many of the questions as “poorly worded.” “My role actually was to translate the figures into English,” Kesler said. “I was working as a summer intern (with National Review),” Kesler, a graduate student at Harvard, said. As “low man on the totem pole,” he continued, “it was my job to write it up.” Kesler added that he did so unwillingly.

The poll measures student feelings on a variety of political, social, and religious topics. In the article, Kesler compared the poll's results to those of National Review student polls made in 1961-63 and 1969-70. The poll was actually conducted in 1977; however, the article's title is “The Movement of Student Opinion: 1965, 1969, 1979.” It was suggested to Kesler that the conflict of dates is misleading. “Right,” Kesler responded.

Kesler did maintain, however, that 1977 data is somewhat relevant when presented as 1979 opinion. “Some of the students polled in 1977 are probably still at Davidson,” he said. Davidson was the only one of the twelve schools in the survey that boasted a majority of conservative students. Davidson also polled the highest percentage of Republican students (forty-three percent) and the lowest percentage of religiously non-affiliated students (eight percent).

The other schools in the survey were South Carolina, Williams, Yale, Marquette, Boston University, Indiana University, Howard, Reed, Brandeis, and Stanford. One of the National Review’s editors was unavailable to comment on the poll and said the editor was “out sick for the week.” He recommended that Kesler be contacted as a source of information.