Apathy undermines nationwide SGA’s (CPS) — “You mean there’s a student senate here?” That’s how a Burlington County College student
answered a survey measuring the effectiveness of the student government at the small eastern school. The sentiments, however, are common
to surprisingly large numbers of students who are showing record amounts of apathy towards their student government.

The symptoms are national. Voter turnouts for student government elections are steadily dropping. Surveys find most students are totally uninformed
about student government workings. The senators themselves are frequently lackadaisical about their responsibilities. Student leaders running on ‘absurdist’ platforms are
proliferating. To wit:

- Although the average student turnout for student elections has been charted at 20 percent, voting at most schools is
actually much lower. At the University of Missouri-Kansas City, voter turnout dropped from nine percent in 1977 to 5.6 percent
last year. Last fall, the University of North Carolina-Greensboro experienced an all-time low in voter turnout — five percent. A
Fort Hays State College recall election attracted less than four percent of the students.
- 65 percent of Florida Institute of Technology students didn’t know who their college representative was. Less than 10 percent
of the students at New Mexico State University knew.
- Two senators were axed last winter at Towson State College in Maryland for not showing up for meetings. At
Appalachian State University, one senator was impeached for the same reason.
- The University of Georgia student government president won office last spring by posing as the “unknown comedian,” and wearing
a paper bag over his head. The student government heads at the University of Wisconsin-Madison led the Pail and Shovel
party this past year through a series of self-admitted foolish expenditures. Last month, a University of Missouri-Columbia candidate won almost
half of the student vote with his “birthday party” platform, and by campaigning in clown suits and straitjackets.

But most importantly, more schools are finding student government so worthless they are abandoning it. Since last spring, at least
seven schools have considered abolishing their student governments. At two schools, the effort was successful. At the others, the votes
were very close.

Reasons for the disenchantment with student government vary from school to school, but observers point to some common factors, including
the lack of “bread and butter” issues dealt with by student governments, the political maneuvering frequently seen in the groups,
and the encroachment of administrative control over sections deemed crucial by students.

The University of North Carolina-Wilmington student government is currently opposing efforts by administration to strip the student legislature of its
allocation power. UNC’s student government, which has had problems meeting quorum in the past semester, currently controls $110,000 in student
fees. The administration favors re-dividing the funding responsibilities between the program board, media and publications board, and the student legislature.
Administration control of student allocations was also an issue at the University of Georgia this year. The newly-elected SGA president,
Harold Muhlerin, was elected on an abolition platform. Out-going president Billy Key told the Red and Black that SGA had
“lost its main purpose” when UG administrators re-assigned the task of club allocations. The schools and colleges now allocate money
to associated clubs, while funding for the larger groups—such as the school’s union—is decided by an administration-appointed committee. “Allocations and
student money were the only real things the Senate had to do,” complained former vice-president Debbie Barnes.

(continued from page 1)

All intercollegiate sports. The most astonishing feature of the 1977-78 athletic budget, however, is the 66 percent drop in basketball
game revenues since the 1968-69 season. The basketball program then used $303,892, but because game income amounted to $291,463, the
net expense was only $12,429. The expenditures for basketball in 1977-78 totaled $386,027, but because game income was considerably reduced—to
$76,137—the College had to pick up $309,890 of the total $386,027 basketball budget. The football program last year gained $127,354
of its $361,996 budget from Wildcat Club contributions and game income. Spencer commented, “The potential (gate receipts) is greater for
basketball than football; therefore, the net cost could be smaller—but now it’s larger.”

“I don’t think football will ever pay for itself. Basketball could pay for itself and all the minor sports,” said
Cartmill. Cartmill explained that Davidson’s level of competition “creates a difficult situation for us to compete in.” “Our problem is
that we are competing with schools who give grant-in-aids across the board, whereas we only give them in basketball,” he
added. “This scheduling and level of competition is not my decision, but that of the Trustees,” he noted. Recruiting costs
in basketball (included in a category along with pre-season and film expenses) increased from $23,414 in 1968-69 to $70,711 in
1977-78.

(continued from page 1)

Davidson is to compete for quality professors with universities like Duke, Chapel Hill, and Vanderbilt.” Manning noted.Here is the cleaned
OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ted that these universities are drawing quality professors from Davidson with higher salary offers. Classics Professor Mark Davies said, “budget
priorities need to be reordered to protect the financial future of younger faculty members.” He noted that professors are “rightly
expected to make a wider service to the community as a whole and this lessens marketability in the long run.”
Spencer urged faculty members “not to construe this meeting one way or another.”

(continued from page 1)

“The basketball picture has changed rapidly in the last six or seven years. Before, money wasn’t such a problem. There
were very few scholarship programs. But now there are recruiting wars. Perhaps certain institutions are lowering their academic standards to
allow in athletes.”

“Davidson’s athletic budget falls into an intermediate category among colleges and universities. But should the basketball program become successful again
it could help pay for minor sports.”

Whether or not the article is accurate in its claims, it has given ammunition to those who would like to
see Davidson modify its athletic program. Classics professor Mark Davies, a known critic of Davidson’s Athletic Program, pointed out that
“we may need basketball to participate in North Carolina society, considering the basketball mania here.”

“But it is a depressing thought when you consider the high costs involved for added recruiting, coaches’ salaries, etc.,” he
said. “Large expenditures on major sports are a case of misplaced priorities. We are requiring physical education but we refuse
to fund it properly and enthusiastically,” he said.

One major point of contention is the question of athletic funding and the relationship between success in competition and alumni
giving. Outgoing Dean of the Center for Special Studies Robert L. Avenger, Jr. is presently assembling a cost-benefit case study
on that relationship at Davidson.

“It turns out that those who favor existing intercollegiate athletic programs use the argument that they're important in generating financial
support from the alumni. Those who don’t like it say just the opposite: alumni giving is adverse to athletic programs.
We hope to gather some empirical evidence from several years into a report. To me, a lot of the arguments
tossed about have been done so with very little understanding of facts. This is a serious issue warranting thoughtful discussion,
and it is crucial to coming up with a good policy for Davidson.”

Administration officials seem confident that the figures released in the Update this month will diffuse some criticisms of the athletic
program. “There is nothing hidden in our budget. There is nothing unstated,” Cartmill said. “The misconception is that because figures
haven't been released in the past, there is some hanky-panky going on. I also think you will find that other
sports’ expenditures are comparable.”

March 30, 1979—The Davidsonian

Curious photo: workman digs his own grave?

Jackson (continued from page 1)

However, a lot of the money that supports the school comes from alumni who were here when it was all
male. The best thing we can do is wait. But it might take five or ten years. One of Richard
Terry’s major duties as Vice President will be to head the recently restructured Residence Hall Council. Terry noted that Jackson
restructured the Council so as to include more student members. He hopes that “in the wake of the Honor Code
furor, perhaps this will add a little bite to the Code of Responsibility.” In other words, if a student sees
a violation he will feel more at ease going to talk to another student.

Jackson hopes to meet another goal of his campaign by always being at a designated spot during Coffee and Cokes.
“Eventually it will evolve that people will always expect us at that spot. And if people want to have any
input, here’s one way that would be a painless way of doing it,” he conjectured.

Finally, Jackson and Terry commented on the fact that Terry was unopposed. Terry believed, “It was a vote of some
confidence that nobody else decided to run but there is a problem which we hope can be solved by better
communications.” Jackson concluded, “I don’t think we could have gotten anybody more capable. However, the people who are concerned about
apathy can show their feelings by running for one of the various committees. The sign-ups for the Senate, Campus and
Religious Life Committee, etc. are on right now.”

Both Jackson and Terry are members of Kappa Alpha fraternity, attended the same high school in Decatur, Georgia, and played
soccer together for three years. In addition, they live only a few minutes away from each other in Decatur. Terry
commented, “Because we live close to each other we will be in touch over the summer about plans for next
year.”

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
