“I didn’t think of going into singing”

By MERIDETH DURDEN
Senior Features Editor

A visual impression of Richard Gill corresponds to his life a decade ago. The bespectacled Gill was a respected Economics
professor at Harvard, his alma mater. But when Gill starts to talk in his sonorous bass voice, he resounds with
his current career. He is an internationally acclaimed opera singer. Last week he finished starring in “The Flying Dutchman” in
Charlotte. This week he is a visiting economist at Davidson. But he didn’t always lead this double life.

A decade ago he and his family were firmly established in Cambridge. His Principles of Economics course was the largest
course offered. His short stories were published in the New Yorker. In addition, he was house master of the largest
house at Harvard. In short, he was a success.

Gill began taking voice lessons. As a boy, he sang duets with his music teacher mother and he had sung
some in college. But he really had not used his bass voice for 15 years.

Gill began taking music lessons “mainly due to a feeling of dissatisfaction that I had let my voice, which was
fairly nice in college, deteriorate so completely. Really, I was unable to finish a song.” Obviously, there was some sort
of longing for music in my life and it was a deeper thing than I had thought.”

“I was a typical academic. I had a bad back and after a lecture I sort of had to ease
myself down into a chair.” Now his physical activity centers around an “incompetent but vigorous” sports life.

Gill's life has changed completely. He went from the secure tenured life at Harvard to the volatile opera world. Betty,
his wife, turned down a job as principal of a Boston school to accompany her husband. She is a musician
also and often accompanies her husband on the piano.

Gill contends that when he and his wife first changed lifestyles “We were protected by layers and layers of innocence.”
But “Now that we've made the switch, I can’t imagine not having made it.”

“I feel that I’m fortunate in being able to do it. I’ve since discovered that there are a great many
people who have somewhat similar desires but forcibly narrow their vistas because of the demands of their professional life.”

“I feel very lucky. Who would have thought, starting voice training so late, that there was any possibility of a
substantial professional career. It's unheard of in singing because it is so athletic and if you don’t do the athletics
at an early stage, forget it.

“My voice is actually physically improving now. There’s no question about it—in size, color and so forth. So I really
will have a career as long as I want to sing.

“My guess is that if the body lasts, the voice will last.”

In retrospect, Gill is glad he made the jump. “If I had to extrapolate my old life and said ‘Well,
you've spent 27 years in Cambridge and you had about 23 more to go’ and that I would spend those
years doing that, that seems to me to be inconceivable. Although at the time it seemed perfectly appropriate and natural.

“I recommend, for those willing to take the risk, to try a totally different kind of life. Perhaps the interesting
thing about my case is that this was an extreme switch. It is much more common to switch the other
way—to switch from an athletic thing to an academic thing. The fact that it is possible, I think, has relevance
for other people who might close out such possibilities because it seems so ridiculous.”

“When I started studying I just enjoyed singing the way I now enjoy tennis. I was happy just to go
on singing in public and finally, in effect, dared me to do it. I wanted to prove to him that
I wouldn't be scared. Of course, I was petrified.

“Most pupils of voice teachers don’t go on to become professional singers. I was accepted into the New York City
Opera, one of the most respected operas in the world, in 1970. At that time I didn’t think of going
into singing,” Gill explained. “I thought of it as a hobby and I really just wanted to see how good
I was. I would audition wherever anyone would listen to me.”

His acceptance into the New York City Opera literally changed his life. Although he did not accept the offer right
away, he was impressed by the fact that the New York City Opera Company wanted him as a singer.
