Brian Whitmire prepares for the snap on yet another play during spring practice. Whitmire is extremely optimistic about next season. [Gregg Strader]

March 30, 1979—The Davidsonian—9

Davidson's 65 football players work hard this spring to prepare for “national championship” next season

By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

“I know we can do it!” There was more than just a tone of hope in Brian Whitmire’s voice as he said this. Some confidence leaked out with the words, too. He was not making a simple statement; he was backing up the 1979 Wildcats’ goal. Whitmire commented, “The team has set the national championship as our goal.” Boy! What a goal!

The opening game in September is six months away, however, and the goal is somewhere off in the future. Springtime means worktime for the 65 or so football players on Coach Ed Farrell’s Davidson squad. The team has to work, experiment, and scrimmage to prepare for the time when Davidson may well indeed be going for that far-fetched goal.

Championship is distant goal for Cats as team loses to East Tennessee State

By MIKE LINS
Staff Writer

Davidson has never won a Southern Conference title in baseball. Despite 42 years of competing (Davidson joined the Conference in 1937), the Cats have finished only twice in second place, the most recent being in the 1974 season. Coach Palmer Muench set this year’s goal for the Cats to win that elusive Southern Conference title. However, this week the Cats dropped two games in a doubleheader to Conference newcomer East Tennessee State. These losses move the Cats to an 0-4 Conference record (3-8 overall) and may jeopardize all hopes of achieving the goal of winning the title.

In the first game of the doubleheader, the Cats played a hard-fought game, losing what proved to be a pitching duel by a narrow 4-2 score. Senior pitcher Ron Cannon hurled another excellent game for the Cats, allowing only one earned run. Three crucial errors in the field blunted the Cats’ defensive efforts. The Cats did not have a good day at the plate, since they only got five hits in the first game off of East Tennessee pitcher Mike Priesmeyer, who touts a 3-0 record.

In the second game, the Cats lost their composure as East Tennessee jumped ahead 3-0 in the top of the first inning. Though the Cats loaded the bases in the bottom of the first, they failed to score any runs. East Tennessee then added three more runs in the second inning, one in the fourth, and four in the fifth. The problem for the Cats seemed to be a combination of inconsistent pitching and error-ridden fielding. Freshman pitcher Diggs Bishop started the game but was relieved early in the game by Jon Young, followed by John Madden and then Rusty Colechia. The East Tennessee hitters pounded the Cat hurlers with sixteen hits and three home runs.

Though the Cats were down by eleven runs, they tried to fight back as senior Tim Goodell hit a home run over the left field fence. Later in the game, junior catcher Bob Lapple smashed a two-run homer over left-center, moving the score to 11-3. Despite a rally of hits by the Cats in the late innings, they could only score once more. They lost 11-4.

Four losses in Conference play make the likelihood of winning the title this season very slim. If the Cats can break out of the slump that they’ve been in during the past four games, they may still have a strong season. The next Southern Conference games are in a doubleheader against rival Appalachian State. The Mountaineers have posted a 5-9 record this season and should offer strong competition for the Cats.

According to Farrell, the quarterback question for next fall is unsettled. Al Rhyne will be a senior next season, and Whitmire will be battling for the job as a sophomore. Farrell said, “We feel that we can’t go wrong either way. Brian has a year of experience and Al is very good under game pressure.” Rhyne had the starting job a little during his freshman year, about half of his sophomore season, and almost all of last year. Whitmire came on as a freshman and had a good deal of game experience during 1978. A two-quarterback system is a definite possibility for next year. The coaching staff has not made any decision and probably won't. Time will determine the quarterback status next season.

Whitmire feels that the team should have an established leader and settle on one QB, but Rhyne takes a more moderate approach. He said, “Brian can probably do some things better, and I can probably do some things better. With two quarterbacks, if one has a bad day, the coaches can try the other.” Both feel that the quarterback situation should be decided on the basis of what is best for the team. Whitmire and Rhyne are both capable of the starting position, but depth is not a problem. Sophomore Jeff Burns and Freshman Rick Gaines are good possibilities.

There are a few other individual bright spots onNext fall’s roster: Gifford Piercy will be a junior next fall, and Farrell calls him one of the “exceptional individuals.” The fullback position with Billy Johnson and Ray Sinclair is very stable. Farrell said, “We can win with either one. That’s good.” Sinclair is the highly rated freshman (this year) from Jacksonville. Farrell said, “Sinclair has tremendous physical potential. He is beginning to understand the concepts of the offense and is turning out to be the kind of football player we recruited.” Farrell is pleased with his work and recruiting this year. The staff is still in the recruiting process, but Farrell said that Davidson has already signed some quality players. One of the reasons for the good feeling is not the importance of next year’s freshmen, but the lack of importance. Farrell said, “Up until last year, freshmen were prevalent in the program. Now we don’t have to worry.” Farrell explained that in the past, freshmen came on campus and were expected to add a great deal to the immediate problems of the team. Next season Farrell feels that the upperclassmen will be able to carry the load at every position.

While the prospects may look bright for the upcoming year, the players and coaches now have their attention focused on spring practice that has been going on since break. Spring practice may not be the most enjoyable activity for the football players, but Farrell is quick to point out the many advantages. He said, “We get to have a good look at the young players and slot them into the right positions. A second advantage is the ability to make experiments and adjustments that we don’t have time for in the fall.” The 3:30-5:30 practices on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday afternoons concentrate on the basic fundamentals such as blocking, tackling, etc. The coaches have time to evaluate different players and plays. The facts that are learned this spring will be instrumental for the 1979 Wildcat season. Farrell said, “We can make decisions midway through spring practice, but during the season—no.” If the right decisions are made during spring practice, and if the players come through to their full advantages next fall, it may indeed be a pleasant, exciting, and maybe unbelievable year for the Davidson Wildcats in 1979.

Catcall by John Haskell

In the last few weeks, I’ve made a few sarcastic remarks about our school’s tennis team. It’s probably about time I gave them what’s due to them—a little credit. The thing is that tennis shouldn’t be considered so minor a sport. The matches are actually exciting, and the competition is certainly challenging. Davidson competes in the first division of the Southern Conference and does reasonably well against high-powered competition at schools like UNC, N.C. State, and Auburn. All of these schools give scholarships. The fact is the level of competition compares favorably with any other sport here. Also, it is safe to say that the program, under the direction of the indomitable Jeff Frank, is one of the school’s most successful. But, unfortunately, week after week during the school year we hear all about John Gerdy, Page Walley, and Pat Hickert and not nearly enough about first and second singles players Jay Gepfert and Harry Griffith.

In tennis, the personalities stand out very perceptibly. Tennis is a one-on-one sport, and naturally, there is a great deal of pressure on the individuals. The players make their own line calls, which causes numerous disputes. Some show their emotions very openly. The sport can get very frustrating for the loser. In the cases of Gepfert and Griffith, the two Wildcat stars, there is a great deal of contrast in personality. Jay Gepfert, a sophomore from Connecticut, is a power player with a strong serve that goes a long way in making up for his obvious deficiencies in the area of quickness. Last year, Gepfert was a member of Davidson’s number one doubles team that won the Southern Conference. Perhaps Gepfert is noted for his obnoxious antics on the court more than his abilities as a player. It is probably true that for tennis players, due to the fact that they play a one-on-one sport where the psychological edge is so crucial, obnoxiousness in competition is almost second nature. Jay’s extra-curricular actions range from making faces at his opponents to openly laughing at them when they make a poor shot to uttering off-color remarks at them that are plain for all to hear.

It is interesting to note that Coach Frank has recently advised Gepfert, for the sake of decency, to tone down his antics. He is now only allowed to exclaim “Yes!” upon making a good shot, which he now does coupled with a nod of the head when he wins. Quite on the contrary is the behavior and personality of junior Harry Griffith of Virginia. Harry is also a hard-hitting player who has the speed to cover the court, although he certainly isn’t too fast. Griffith is a bit more sedate than Gepfert, usually exemplifying commendable tennis etiquette. In a recent match, Griffith kept his cool against a very high-caliber Auburn opponent.