s— The Davidsonian— May 4, 1979

Debate team’s success is affirmative

By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

“I've been real pleased this year,” said senior Maria Patterson about Davidson's Debate Team. “Both the experienced and inexperienced have done real well and are looking good for next year.”

Maria has been an assistant of sorts to Mrs. Cornell, Assistant Professor of Speech.

There is a debate class that meets one term with the grade based on a year's work. The material covered in the class depends on the individual’s knowledge of debate.

“The students learn debate theory, the different types of cases and what type of attacks to make on the cases, and then they have time for lots of practical application in researching and debating," said Maria.

The Debate Team is an extracurricular activity for students who don't need to take the class and after other students have completed the class.

The Debate Team this year consists of Wyatt Alston, Bryan Duke, Bobby Ervin, David Green, Jimmy Prappas, Maria Patterson, Molly Rice, Lindsay Robertson, Tommy Thompson, Robert Waller, and Nancy Warren.

This year the team attended six tournaments where they met against other schools. There have also been mini tournaments at Davidson and at Wake Forest. Practice scrimmages are also held in the class.

“Each year the team gives an on-campus debate,” said Maria. “This year’s debate concerned sex-blind admissions.”

The team hopes to hold more on-campus debates on both serious and humorous topics. Maria feels “it would be good to eliminate campus issues.”

There are two types of debates that can be held at the tournaments, on-topic and off-topic. The on-topic is the topic chosen from a list of topics sent out by the National Forensics League to every school with a recognized debate program.

Each school has one vote. The selected topic is then researched by every debate team and debated on throughout the year.

Variety does exist, however, because the team can change cases within the topic or expand on one case. “By the end of the year, all the members of the team should have a very broad knowledge of the subject,” said Maria.

The off-topic debate is not as popular. Chosen by the directors of a tournament, the topic is announced three weeks prior to the tournament. The debate teams have only those three weeks to prepare their cases.

At the tournaments about thirty schools participate. There are usually eight preliminary rounds, then quarters, semi-finals, and at last the finals.

The two-person teams debate both the affirmative and negative sides of the case.

“If a team clears the semi-finals, they have usually had eleven debates over a three-day period,” stated Maria. “It is very tiring and tension building.”

Besides debating there are also individual events which involve public speaking. Some members of the debate team participate in both debate and public speaking.

The three students who do only public speaking are Clay Macaulay, Andy Miller, and Mark Newman.

KING OF PIZZA

Take part in Davidson tradition. Join the crowd that enjoys the delicious pizza at Mooresville’s King of Pizza. The food maintains an excellent reputation for being fresh, warm, and of excellent quality. Davidson students enjoy the relaxed atmosphere or take-out order service. Lunch on a pizza from King of Pizza and see how much you enjoy it.

King of Pizza, Inc.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, N. C.
Phone 663-3030

The Back Page

On Campus

Friday, May 4
8 & 10:30 Pop Film: Winnie the Pooh Love Aud.
8:15 Guys & Dolls Hodson Hall
9:30 & 11:00 Windfall 900 Room

Saturday, May 5
1:00 Baseball: Mercer of Macon Away
Beach & Boogie Concert—Sponsored by Busch Crockett Pk., Charlotte
8:15 Guys & Dolls Hodson Hall
9:30 & 11:00 Windfall 900 Room

Sunday, May 6
3:30 Wind Ensemble Concert Front of Chambers
8:15 Organ Recital—Roger Farabee DCPC
8:00 Davidson Christian Fellowship 900 Room

Monday, May 7
8:15 Student Recital Hodson Hall

Tuesday, May 8
10:00 Open Meeting With Dr. Spencer Morrison Room
12:30 CROP meal 900 Room
7:00 Worship Service DCPC
8:15 Senior Recital—Harry Pickens, piano; Susan Davidson, cello Hodson Hall

Wednesday, May 9
12:30 Open Luncheon with T. G. Reddy 900 Room
8:15 Senior Piano Recital—Margaret Darby Hodson Hall
7:30 Performing Arts Guild Ensemble 900 Room

Thursday, May 10
10:00 Coffee and Cokes Gallery
7:30 Student recitals—John Lawry, trumpet and Stu Baskin, trombone 900 Room
8:00 Phi Beta Kappa Oration—with Dr. Kenneth M. Greene, Executive Secretary of the United Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, “Attaining the Important Ends of Society” Gallery
10:00 Disco 900 Room

Student Bill Edwards can now be identified by his nose and forehead.
(Brad Kerr)

Davidson Centennial

Saturday, May 5
9:00 a.m. Set up time on the Village Green for all exhibitors.
11:00 a.m. All exhibits must be ready.
11:30 a.m. Parade participants assemble at the Fine Arts parking lot and check in.
12:00 noon Parade will begin down Main Street, to the Village Green.
12:45 p.m. Centennial ceremony at the Village Green.
1:30 p.m. Awards for the Parade entries.
2:00 p.m. Davidson Elementary School Chorus concert.
2:30 p.m. Lions Club Auction begins
3:00 p.m. Folk Music—Dr. Dawes Grabeal
3:30 p.m. Davidson Freewheelers
4:00 p.m. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Youth Council Steel Drum Symphonett

AFTERNOON: Exhibits, craft demonstrations, and games at the Green.
7:30 p.m. Square dances on the Village Green.

Sunday, May 6
2:00 p.m. Rain-date beginning for parade.
3:30 p.m. Davidson College Wind Ensemble concert, Chambers building on campus.
4:30 p.m. Community Worship service at the Village Green.