By JEAN SORACCO Features Editor

“You must approach the concert mentally comparing the music of the two artists,” said James G. Swisher, pianist and Assistant Professor of Music at Davidson College, about his upcoming concert. The concert music, since the nature of his music is that of direct transmutation of his own personal experiences to his music. Chopin’s music needs the personal atmosphere.”

The twenty-four preludes were written over an eight-year period from 1831 to 1839. Most of them Chopin wrote during 1838 while recuperating on the Island of Majorca off the coast of Spain with George Sand, one of the most famous woman romance novelists at that time. “The atmosphere of the old abandoned monastery that they were living in turned out to be terrible and made Chopin only more feverish and ill. The preludes are therefore very intense pieces.”

In the first half of the concert, Mr. Swisher will perform Frederic Chopin’s 24 Preludes, Opus 28, and in the second half, George Crumb’s Makrokosmos, Volume II, Twelve Fantasy Pieces after the Zodiac for Amplified Piano. Chopin’s preludes are very intimate musical pieces. “They are meant to be played for small audiences,” said Swisher, “because Chopin was always ill-at-ease at large public performances. He was best communicated at this level of salon atmosphere.”

Although written at different times and reflecting different emotions, the preludes are meant to be performed together. Swisher stated, “They are organized both musically and emotionally to fit together. There is a feeling of being driven from the beginning to the last and of a tremendous outburst of grief and despair.” The preludes are very brief pieces offering only “brief glimpses of his inner state of mind.”

Contrasting to the Romantic Chopin is the American contemporary composer, George Crumb. Born in 1929, he is still living and is one of today’s most important composers. Crumb’s Makrokosmos, Volume II is very new music since it was completed in 1973. Each of the twelve pieces is based on a different zodiac sign. Crumb has written three volumes of Makrokosmos, each based on the twelve zodiac signs and yet each very different. “Crumb lends a great deal of resonance to the ideas behind the zodiac seen in terms of both musical and emotional expression.”

Students enjoy crackerjacks and rhino

By GINNY EVANS Staff Writer

On what occasion would crackerjacks be served for refreshments? Davidson lovers of tradition have continued this idea, for each year at Davidson’s annual student art opening, the art enthusiast has the opportunity to munch on crackerjacks while viewing a variety of student art pieces. This year’s art opening was the afternoon of May 2 in Chambers Gallery and the exhibit continues until the end of the school year. A variety of paintings, prints, drawings, and sculptures selected from 1978-79 art classes were displayed.

Three awards were presented and chosen by Charlotte artist Kitty Couch. Couch, a member of the Charlotte Council on Arts and Sciences, is a former professor at UNCC. She now works independently and is recognized as a great promoter of the arts in the Charlotte area. These well-chosen pieces are only three among many talented works of student art in the exhibit.

When entering, the visitor, upon glancing at the first painting on the left, is forced to hasten his step and to take the full course around the room, back to the starting point. This painting by Dan Wilkinson, of a gray running track streaked in lines of red and white, suggests the swiftness and smoothness of a runner. The clear and distinct running lanes extend diagonally across the canvas, contrasting with an old, paint-chipped stadium in the background.

A painting by Gary Hazlett, awarded second prize, awakens one’s imagination with the images and colors. It stands out with its bright oranges, turquoises, reds, browns, and blacks. But at a closer look, the many details can be better appreciated. A humorous white-horned animal sits at a table eating with a man. In the distance, men break through doors and cabinets. The bizarre action throughout the painting builds one’s curiosity and leaves one quite perplexed.

On the back wall, amidst obscure and earth-toned paintings, there is an appealing, geometric sea painting by Mott Blair. Horizontality takes control as distinct shades of blue gradually darken as they move from the bottom of the painting upward. A deep gray meets the darkest blue and the shades of gray become lighter as they reach the top of the painting.the painting. A multi-shaded, coral sailboat floats among the striped shades of blues and grays. Surrounded by other abstract, multi-colored paintings, a headless, pink and green fingered figure plays a stringed instrument. Remnants of oddly shaped, and multi-colored instruments weave themselves about the painting. The rusts, greens, browns, and golds give the painting a soft quality and the sharp and abrupt angles suggest characteristics of Picasso. Smaller watercolors and prints line the right wall. In the center, facing the balcony, numerous earth-toned and landscape paintings greet one’s eyes. The third award, given to Paul Schulz, projects a variety of feelings. The distorted bending and curling leaves suggest movement in the air. Their rich autumn colors of yellow, orange, mauve, rust, and brown fill the painting with the memories of late autumn days. On the balcony, between vicious eyes of a jungle cat and sad, circus clown eyes, stands one of the most unique items in the art show. It is “the rhino,” as it has come to be known around campus. Its wagging, humorous, inventive, and enjoyable 7-foot piece of sculpture can be accounted to the creativity and skills of Davidson senior art major, John Evans. “The rhino” has been around Davidson for more than two years. John began it his junior year. After buying one hundred pounds of steel, he began the head which he said was the most difficult part. He set up his equipment two miles off campus. The only guidelines he used were a xeroxed copy of a rhinoceros from a book. John found two barrels behind the maintenance building at Davidson which he used for the torso. He cut open one of the barrels and welded pieces of the other black one to obtain the designated size. It took a month to complete the torso and after finishing the legs, he welded them to the body, closed up the behind, and, at the end, welded on the head. He finished the rhino behind Julia Johnson House this year. In the welding process, it is necessary to have welding rods, which are melted down, to connect the pieces of steel. John used coat hangers and his rhino consists of 125 of them! The smooth texture and silver coloring adds to the aesthetic appeal of the rhino by making an attractive contrast with the rough and rustic surface of the rhino’s body. John experimented with the welding technique in high school and took evening courses two years ago at CPCC. The rhino is his first welding project. The idea of creating a rhinoceros occurred to John because he had left an unfinished marble sculptured rhinoceros in high school. He felt the need to finish it. The finished rhino has been a superb crowd pleaser. The student show itself has been a crowd pleaser. From James Swisher at the piano. “Ancient and new mythology,” said Swisher. Crumb gives the distinct sense of the inner meanings of the stars and the connection between man and the heavens although “man’s intellects are not controlled by what is above.” “Musically speaking, Crumb has synthesized many of the main currents of the 20th-century music such as new harmonies, new instruments, new uses for old instruments, new forms or total denial of form, and extraordinary new sounds, and has developed a personal style that is very distinctive,” said Swisher. In performing the twelve pieces, Crumb often calls on the pianist to play inside the piano on the strings by plucking or muting them. At other times the pianist will place objects inside the piano such as paper to produce “a very colorful, yet subtle percussion effect that is often found in Oriental music.” Other strange effects involve the pianist singing, whispering, shouting, or whistling into the piano. The strings pick up the overtones of the sound and begin to vibrate. “Amplifying it (the entire musical work) adds to the mystical aura of the whole piece. There is the sense of the performer and piano as one,” feels Swisher. Whereas Chopin has such personal music, Crumb wants an extension of the performer to give the music a large-scale focus, a larger-than-life quality so that “it (the music) permeates the universe.” Another contrast between the two composers is that Crumb’s music sounds very optimistic while Chopin’s is more pessimistic and disillusioned. Mr. Swisher’s performance will be held in Hodson Hall of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center. Try a different and delicious approach to eating today. The Buttery and Beanery On Highway 115, north of Davidson, phone: 892-8686 “Even Todd Bailey likes the food WE serve.”