Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

By KENT DYER
Staff Writer

With senior year upon him, the Davidson “cutthroat pre-med” faces an interesting dilemma: he anxiously peers into his post office
box each day hoping to find a heavy, rather than light, envelope from medical school admissions. But at the same
time, he is plagued by the thought of having to leave the ole alma mater. He is further reminded of
his plight every time Dr. Fredericksen, the Pre-medical advisor, proudly advertises Davidson’s 83% rate of acceptance into medical school, and
cringes at the thought that he may be one of the unlucky 17%.

What could be more empyreal than enjoying the bliss of having your own medical school at Davidson? The advantages would
be numerous: The pre-med acceptance rate would surely increase since most of the seats would be reserved for Davidson graduates,
Fredericksen would be all smiles, and cutthroat competition might even decrease a tiny bit.

Well, the thirty years between 1887 and 1907 were ones of great ecstasy for all our cutthroats. For during that
period, we enjoyed the monopoly of possessing the first chartered medical school in the state, the North Carolina Medical College.

The college stood two doors down from the Infirmary and across from the Chapel, until it was removed in 1970
as part of a city beautification project. About all that can be said about the old Douglas House that held
the medical school from 1901 to 1907, is that it was a perfect example of Victorian architecture.

The idea of the college originated with Dr. Paul Barringer who came to Davidson as college physician in 1886.

The pre-med at that time was expected to receive his undergraduate training under the private tutorage of an experienced physician.
Dr. Barringer sought to provide a more structured medical education, and began to tutor at the college in his time
off from work. Soon his courses in anatomy, physiology, histology, and biology had become so popular that his home became
known as the medical school.

In 1887 Dr. Barringer left Davidson to teach at the University of Virginia and was succeeded by Dr. John P.
Munroe as college physician. Dr. Munroe bought the preparatory school and came to be known as the father of the
N.C. Medical College. Under his direction, three professors were employed to help with the tutorial work, the school’s course of
studies was extended to three years, and soon the school became the first medical college to be chartered in the
state.

In 1883 the college was incorporated. That year it enrolled 44 students and graduated its first class. The building across
from the Chapel was built to house the college in 1901. Complete with an amphitheater for the students and a
“stiff house” out back for cadavers, the house was well equipped.

In 1907 the entire school was moved to Charlotte where it continued for six years before being incorporated into the
Medical College of Virginia at Richmond.

Many stories were told among the black population about this house where human bodies were dissected. Thus when a cadaver’s
remains were discovered inside one of the columns of Old Chambers, medical students took all the credit.

The first x-ray to be photographed in the United States was the result of another prank by medical students. Dr.
Smith, of the physics department, had, in January of 1896, acquired a Crook's tube similar to the one used by
Dr. Roentgen in his experiments on X-ray emission. After hearing their professor lecture on this new invention, three students, motivated
by their innate thirst for knowledge, decided to try the gadget out for themselves. Breaking into the lab one night,
they successfully photographed a metal glass case hidden inside a cardboard box. This discovery was kept under wraps for days
for fear that the three would be punished. But once the secret leaked out and Davidson realized the significance of
this experiment, the charge of breaking and entering was dropped and the boys were congratulated for their brilliant efforts to
further Davidson's reputation.

All in all, the North Carolina Medical School, in its 30 years of operation, graduated 340 physicians. Although the original
building in Davidson no longer stands, the Charlotte branch, located at the corner of Sixth and Church Streets, is presently
known as Churchill apartments. Dr. Beaty’s book, due to become available in early November, will have an excellent account of
the medical school and many other historic buildings of Davidson College.

(Earl Lawrimore)

---
