Dominica: microcosm of third-world countries

Dominican women carry 30-pound boxes of bananas to ships at 7½ cents a box.

By NANCY MCNAIR
Staff Writer

Shortly after hurricane David cut its swath through the Antilles last summer, Anthropology professor Robert Myers received a plaintive letter
from friends in Dominica requesting aid. Myers promptly organized a collection of clothing through the ‘‘Y.’’ Unlike most relief efforts,
no middleman such as the Red Cross came into the picture. Myers’ friends asked for help not as missionaries or
Peace Corps workers but as native Dominicans. He had come to know them while doing field work there in 1972-73.

“Spending at least a year somewhere studying another culture is considered a part of the rite of passage to becoming
an anthropologist,” said Myers. Supported by a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health, Myers studied Dominican culture for
fifteen months. After a hefty doctoral dissertation at UNC-Chapel Hill, he still has data to write up for the journals
in addition to much experience to pass on to his students.

The National Geographic Society Map on Myers’ door neatly bathes a clean arc of candy-colored islands in Caribbean blues. Among
the exotic names such as Antigua, Guadeloupe, and Barbados, Myers points out a pink one called Dominica (not to be
confused with the Dominican Republic). The site of his doctoral field work, he describes it in relation to points nearer
home: an island smaller than Mecklenburg County with about one-fourth the population of Charlotte.

Myers further characterizes Dominica as the ‘‘antithesis’’ of the standard Caribbean tourist's paradise. The rugged interior defied transformation into sugar
plantations, thus leaving the vegetation much as Columbus found it in 1493. The lack of a deep, natural harbor discouraged
cruise tourism, and the rough, pebbly littoral never made the rum advertisements. The few tourists came to hike in the
mountains. Small hotels achieve an average occupancy rate of only 15 percent.

But Myers’ chief interest lay not in the tourists who do not come, but in the natives who do not
stay. With Dominica’s emigration rate at 20 percent between 1955 and 1975, the second highest in the region, he describes
it as ‘‘a human laboratory for testing out one’s ideas about emigration.” For the Dominican government, self-governing since the West
Indies Act of 1967, the emigration relieved some of the burden of overpopulation: ‘‘Until recently, they’ve had to put fewer
desks in the schools,” added Myers, describing the emigration as a ‘‘safety valve.” But with other countries cracking down on
immigration since 1975, the Dominicans have nowhere to go.

Because Dominican emigrants bring news of the world through letters and money sent back to relatives, they often provide the
only news of the outside world. Myers recalls an illustrative incident that occurred to him while traveling among the islands:
“We met some people who had flown in from Paris three days earlier and asked them if we could read
their International Herald Tribune. Even though it was three days old, it was far and away the latest news.”news available.”
For those who leave Dominica then return with skills, the possibilities are few. “Educated people are put in secondary or
tertiary roles under supervisors with little or no training,” said Myers. “Overtrained, frustrated, they are not given the power to
do anything.” Myers identifies the highly politicized atmosphere as a part of the problem: “Besides cricket and soccer, the only
arena for displays of self-importance is politics.” Of his own experience with the Dominican government, he added: “I had no
help from the bureaucracy. They were too busy to see me. They didn’t care to talk to an American graduate
student doing research.”

Despite its relative obscurity with regard to world affairs and its banana-based economy, Myers perceives a need to study places
like Dominica. “It’s like a microcosm of all of the third-world countries.” Though he laughs at the notion that to
be worth one’s salt one must “live with the real primitives,” Myers feels that his experiences outstrip those of the
stereotypes: “I am fully convinced that it is harder to go and live in a third-world country with inadequate resources
than to go and live in the Amazon, for example, with a group like the Yanomamo.”

Even with the high emigration rate, Myers experienced difficulty in finding a house for his family to live in during
the studies. Because of the rugged terrain, transportation was often by a circuitous rather than a direct route. And on
an island where goods must be imported and the average per capita income is the equivalent of approximately only 350
U.S. dollars, Myers found resources and amenities scant. From the health problems prevalent on the island, Myers developed a keen
interest in medical anthropology. “Even though malaria, yellow fever, and yaws have been eradicated, we still encountered TB—lots of tuberculosis—typhoid,
and hepatitis.” He recalls that “anytime we wanted to eat greens, we had to soak them in an antiseptic such
as the British equivalent to Listerine.” Among his photographs of colorful, abundant markets, he interjects the memory of much malnutrition,
children with the bloated bellies of kwashiorkor. “You would go to the market, and people would try to get you
to take their babies back to the U.S. with you,” he added. “This can’t help but have a significant impact
on you.”

“We felt that we ought to be there as Peace Corps workers or at least in some helpful capacity,” he
added. Of outside intervention, however, he observes that it is often “...too little, too late—imposed, and not responsive to local
needs.” For example, he cites the U.S. Agency for International Development’s regular shipments of flour and powdered milk to Dominica.
“They shipped this stuff for a decade with conditions. They expected the island to develop its own, to learn to
do for itself. Suddenly the American aid stopped,” Myers said, “leaving the Dominicans all the worse off for it.”

“Their only hope is to curb the birth rate,” he said, adding that as Dominica is chiefly Roman Catholic, this
will be difficult. Though Myers concedes that most of the g
