“THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Freedom and Convenience Beleaguered

History Professor David Shi did more last week to strengthen Davidson’s honor code than any other single individual has done
in years. Because of him, students who not too long ago would have professed a strong reluctance to even turn
in a cheater are now not only actively watching for signs of possible cheating, but are even discussing ways to
administratively crack down on whatever cheating may actually be going on. In any other circumstance, the person who brought about
such a drastic change in attitude might reasonably expect to become a hero. But instead, Shi, who seems to be
the unproclaimed leader of a movement to alter Davidson's popular eight-year-old figures on campus.

The root of Shi’s problem is apparently distrust. In discussing self-scheduled exams with students early last week, Shi made what,
in light of his announced goals, can only be looked upon as a costly mistake. The backlash against this mistake
was so strong that it brought about the above-mentioned change in attitude and caused Shi’s motives to be openly questioned.
What Shi did (and he is certainly not the only professor to have done this, only the most outspoken) was
to defend his support of the move to allow professors the option of scheduling their exams, by speculating on the
amount of cheating going on under the present system. He said repeatedly that he believes students are cheating more on
their self-scheduled exams than they would on scheduled ones.

What Shi did not realize at the time, and has perhaps not yet realized, is that if he is right
about self-scheduling being too great an opportunity for would-be cheaters, then much more should be done than he himself proposes.
Self-scheduled exams should be done away with. No professor should be able to give them. If he is wrong, then
much less should be done. Self-scheduled exams clearly offer too many opportunities for honest students “to perform at their best
in a highly competitive situation,” as College President Samuel Spencer has said, to allow professors the option of not giving
them.

If the question is indeed this serious, what then is the basis of Shi’s assertion that more cheating is going
on? Speculation. Shi has repeatedly admitted that he has no way to be sure that more cheating is going on,
he is merely speculating on the basis of his subjective personal experience and the experience of a few others. Obviously,
fundamental policy decisions cannot be based upon speculation. The faculty cannot at its March 13 meeting allow all professors the
option of giving scheduled exams on the basis of the speculation of a few. The faculty cannot afford to sink
that irrational, that irresponsible.

Guileful cheaters will continue to cheat whatever the faculty decides. The so-called “borderline cases” Shi and his supporters are so
fond of discussing will be tempted to cheat regardless of the exam system in use. And the great majority of
Davidson students, the honest students, won't cheat no matter what happens. In making its decision, the faculty should largely discount
the Shi position. Instead, it should weigh heavily the issue of freedom and convenience. That issue, simply stated, is this:
which is more important, a professor's freedom to give whatever kind of exam he pleases, or a student's freedom to
take his exams in the manner he finds most conducive to his best performance?

Does the faculty have the right to limit the methods used by its individual members? We believe it does. If
it was a matter of the administration trying to impose its will upon the faculty, it might be different. Then
it would be an issue of academic freedom. As it is, however, clearly the faculty as a group of peers
has the right to impose its will upon a minority of its membership. Obviously, the faculty also has the right
to limit student freedom, but in this particular case we implore it not to. Because the faculty exists not so
much to grade students as to teach them, it should give them every opportunity to learn.

The most positive thing that can be said about the self-scheduled system, that student grades often improve dramatically on self-scheduled
exams, has been misinterpreted and twisted into one of the most negative. The arena of widespread cheating. It is not.

The Campus Forum

Artistic Freedom

To theEditor:

The honor code being in the sticky situation that it is and all, I’m kind of reluctant to bring this
out in the open, but there’s been some vandalism I feel obligated to bring to light. Maybe I’m a little
cocky, but I spent an awful lot of time working hard on a Humanities project entitled “The Roman Phallic Idiom:
Contemporary Manifestations and Response.” Sure, the exhibit had its ups and downs since it was erected; yet on the whole,
I feel it was well received by our mature and broad-minded college community. I do, however, apologize to those who
found the objet d'art in bad taste and hard to swallow, although I’m inclined to conclude that the irresponsible disrespect
which occurred on the morning of February 9 has no place on this campus. The vandals who caused this senseless
destruction know who they are—we got the shaft and I hope this letter rubs a tender nerve or two. There’s
something decidedly amiss when one’s freedom of artistic expression is violated at an institution of higher learning. I guess the
project was just conceived a little ahead of its time.

L. Simon Barnes '82

---

But also as a source of great pride to both students and alumni. This tree made us the best and
of this we were rightly proud. Yet, now the cry goes out that the tree should be felled, for one
of its limbs is possibly diseased; one limb out of its hundreds of healthy branches. The cry is out to
destroy the very thing which renders Davidson formidable, and we must calm ourselves and not act in haste. We are
a community of scholars and we must remember that scholars who act in unjustified haste hardly bear the respect implicit
in the title. Does the sage fell a majestic tree to eliminate its one diseased limb? Clearly not. He climbs
the tree and seeks out this limb in order to remove it before it infects the rest of the tree.
It has also been suggested that one could try to effect a cure by certain “relieving” methods, such as abolishing
self-scheduled exams. But to do so would be to merely girdle the tree—a move which would only mutilate our venerable
tree, perhaps even kill it, for such an action would be an unwarranted insult to a student body of high
integrity. Thus, I say climb the tree and hack off the diseased limb—don’t fell or mutilate the tree. To fell
a tree, but we must remember that the stakes are if we destroy the Honor Code, we shall have wrenched...

---

Birthday Blooper

To the Editor:

Last week’s swimming article stated that Coach Pat Miller had her 36th birthday on the day of the Citadel meet.
This kind of an embarrassment should not be tolerated! Pat’s 35th birthday will be celebrated on the 11th of this
month. Stand corrected!

Davidson Swimming Team and Davidson Women’s Tennis Team

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the editor on any subject from students, administrators, the faculty, alumni, and townspeople. Mail letters
to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office in the College Union. Letters
received by Sunday afternoon will ordinarily be printed in the following week’s issue.

Charles Erwin, Editor
Pam Camera, Executive Editor
Martin Hunter, Business Manager
Diane Quam, Managing Editor
Dennis McLawhorn, Senior News Editor
B.A. Peeples, Senior Features Editor
Garry Sachtjen, Senior Sports Editor
George H. McCaughan, Senior Opinion Editor
Rick Jenkins, News Editor
Carole Lopiston, News Editor
Suzanne Newberry, Features Editor
Bert Mobley, Sports Editor
Sheri Gravett, Opinion Editor
Margaret Black, News Editor
Margaret Hunter, Features Graphics Editor
Ralph Lastey, Sports Graphics Editor
Ann Sneadler, Opinion Graphics Editor
Lucy Philips, Advertising Manager
Amanda Hall, Production Manager
Ann Garner, Research Director
David Cadenhead, Art Editor
Gregg Strader, Photography Director
David Eisenhower, Proofreading Director
Mark Reas, Asst. Executive Editor
Mark Barren, Asst. News Editor
Jean Soracco, Asst. Features Editor
Howard Browne, Asst. Sports Editor
Lynn McClain, Asst. Features Graphics Editor
Tandy Gieland, Asst. Sports Graphics Editor
Karen Sancin, Asst. Opinion Graphics Editor
Packy Watson, Asst. Circulation Manager
Nick Auer, Production Manager
John Cawley, Asst. Research Director
Phil O., Asst. Production Manager
Bill Purcell, Asst. Director
Gin Pastain, Asst. Art Editor
Allen W., Asst. News Editor
