THE DAVIDSONIAN > The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
Friday, February 16, 1979

Hundreds of people listen as Psychology Professor John Kello explains his position on self-scheduled exams at Wednesday's forum. Darbyshire, Kello,
and Young (L-R) were all applauded for their statements. (Gregg Strader)

Freshmen select eating houses Tuesday night
By JIM GARRETT
Staff Writer

Tuesday night 327 freshmen self-selected, using a new computerized system, into the ten Patterson Court fraternities and eating houses “with
a minimum of difficulty,” according to Dean of Students Will Terry. The computerized system format, designed by Mark Thomas ‘81,
was characterized by Patterson Court Council President Bryam Ratliff as “much better, much faster, and more fair” than the old
lottery system. Ratliff, coordinator of the self-selection process, said further that the computerized system was “completely arbitrary” and commented that
“it removed all the pressure and criticism associated with the other system.” Ratliffe stressed that the process “went smoothly” and
said that he was “very pleased” with the new system.

Ratliff added regretfully that many freshmen construed the computerized system as “an invitation to shotgun” and chose to list only
one eating establishment. “The resulting problem is that the waiting lists at Rusk and F&M are too large to be
absorbed by the houses.” Ratliff added that those freshmen who chose to list only one fraternity or eating house did
not take full advantage of the system. (See HOUSES, page 11)

With this issue The Davidsonian ceases publication until Friday, March 23, 1979. Good luck on your exams and have a
nice Spring Break.

By SUZANNE NEWBERRY
Features Editor

Davidson's College Bowl team gained a spot in the National College Bowl Championships as a result of a dramatic 355-335
victory over UNC-Chapel Hill in the final round of last Friday's regional championships, held in Knoxville, Tennessee. The team is
composed of captain Tom Ruby, James Gibert, Tim Newcomb, and Ed Trumbull. It is coached by English Professor Charlie Lloyd.

The win came when Davidson answered a toss-up question to tie up the final game with a minute left to
go. The team then went ahead by the final margin of twenty points when it correctly answered its bonus question.
A toss-up question, which could have led to a UNC-CH victory, was answered incorrectly by Davidson just before time ran
out. Judges ruled that UNC-CH should have a chance to answer the question even though time had elapsed, but UNC-CH
also answered incorrectly.

Davidson had played UNC-CH, who are last year’s regional champs, twice before in the double elimination tournament. Davidson won the
first game by a score of 406-205, which put UNC-CH in the losers’ bracket. The second match, which was between
the winners’ bracket winner (Davidson) and the losers’ bracket winner (UNC-CH) was won by UNC-CH 355-320. It was marked by
a tremendous Davidson comeback, in which Davidson racked up 245 second half points. The loss left each team with one
loss each, and thus necessitated the aforementioned final game between the two teams.

Davidson is now slated to attend the National College Bowl Championships, tentatively planned for Miami Beach sometime in April. The
team will represent Region Five, which includes Kentucky, Tennessee, and the two Carolinas, by virtue of their tournament victory. All
expenses will be paid by the College Bowl Corporation.

SGA releases exam resolution
Hundreds of people attend campus forum on self-scheduling
By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

Near the end of an hour-and-a-half campus-wide forum on the future of Davidson'sControversial self-scheduled exam system, Student Government Association Vice-President
John Jackson unfolded a plan "directed at strengthening the honor system" and reducing the possibility of cheating in self-scheduled exams.
The plan, in the form of a unanimous SGA Senate resolution, calls for a continuance of self-scheduled exams but with
certain procedural modifications. Jackson told the more than 350 students, faculty, and administrators present that, "We (the SGA) feel the
resolution could solve many problems perceived by both faculty and students without insulting the integrity of either and without weakening
the honor code."

The procedural changes the Senate resolution recommends are that students be honor bound not to take books outside of first
floor Chambers, not to leave Chambers until the completion of their exam, and that specific rooms be designated for students
taking only open-book exams. Students would also be required to indicate on the exam envelope the room and the exam
period in which they took their exam, according to the resolution. It also stipulates the formation of an Ad Hoc
Senate Committee "to investigate all possible changes in the self-scheduled exam system, and report their findings to the Conduct Council
and the faculty." The Conduct Council, a student-faculty committee, will vote on the (see Forum, page 11).

Self-scheduled examinations seem to be working well at other schools

By MARK BARRETT
Asst. News Editor

"Loss of self-scheduled examinations would be a severe blow to the honor system." Bruce Brown? Dean Terry? An angry student?
No, the above statement was made by Gregg Kannerstein, Dean of the College of Haverford College, a prestigious small private
liberal arts school just outside of Philadelphia.

Kannerstein was speaking in reference to the final examination method at Haverford, one that is very much like Davidson's. Haverford
is one of a number of American colleges whose final examination procedures are very similar, if not identical, to Davidson's
present system.

According to Kannerstein, Haverford requires that all final examinations be self-scheduled unless they require the use of slides, dictations, etc.
Students pick up their exams at a designated place, at any of the three daily times during the examination period.
Exams must be taken in one of two pre-determined buildings, and must be returned within three hours. Because Haverford operates
under an honor code, examinations are not proctored. Students are honor bound not to cheat and to report any cheating
they see. Violations are handled by a student committee, which has final authority in both determination of guilt and assessment
of penalties. Kannerstein said, "The system is very effective for us. The amount of cheating is quite small."

Randolph Macon Women’s College, in Lynchburg, Va., is another school which mandates that final examinations be student-scheduled unless special materials
are required. As described by Registrar Laura Bliss, finals are conducted at Randolph Macon, a small all-female school, almost exactly
as they are at Davidson and Haverford. Students decide when to take their unproctored exams, and pledge that they will
not cheat, discuss exams until all are taken, or fail to report those they know to be doing so. Bliss
praised the effectiveness of the system, saying, "We have only three or four honor violations every year. Even though some
unreported cheating probably goes on, I suspect that it is a very small amount."

Self-scheduled exams are also the norm at Mary Baldwin College, according to its Registrar Alfred Booth. "Although professors do have
the option of scheduling their examinations, less than five percent of exams for any given term are scheduled." Booth emphasized
the lack of cheating in the honor-controlled system, saying (see SCHOOLS, page 11).
