THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Tabled With Incitement"

The subcommittee charged with reviewing Davidson's self-scheduled exam system released its report last Friday. The future of the healthy 8-year-old system seemed assured. The report was simple and clear-cut, reaffirming the present system. However, eleven faculty members signed a counter-proposal explicitly challenging the subcommittee’s most basic findings, sparking a fiery reaction from students.

If anything in the ensuing discussion could have been misunderstood, it has been misunderstood. If anything could have been misconstrued, it has been misconstrued. If anything could have been distorted, it has been distorted.

Because of a few cynical and outspoken professors, many students have been led to believe the faculty is seriously considering abandoning self-scheduled exams because of suspected cheating. Because of a few student blunders, many professors have decided students are short-sighted and incapable of helping to make good long-term decisions for the benefit of the college, decisions which might not necessarily immediately benefit the students themselves. At least one faculty member has become very defensive about student comments and complains of being “besieged.”

Knowing this, it was wise for the faculty to table both the subcommittee recommendations and the minority motion until their March 13 meeting. Given this much time, any professor who’s sincerely interested in finding out how students feel about self-scheduled exams will have ample opportunity to do so, and any student who’s sincerely interested in telling professors how he feels will have that chance. Obviously, the decision the faculty makes in March will be much sounder because of this.

Cheating

It is curious to hear professors adamantly state that self-scheduled exams are not tied to the honor code, and then, almost in the same breath, state that they refuse to give self-scheduled exams because they believe students will cheat. Many of the professors who say they are unhappy with the present examination system often respond, when asked to cite the reasons for their displeasure, with answers tied more closely to the honor code than to self-scheduled exams.

The fact is, for many students and professors now at Davidson, the honor code has become so intertwined with self-scheduled exams that to chop one down would surely scar the other. This attitude isn’t due to student ignorance, but to statements made by the faculty itself. Rarely does the subject of the honor code come up without someone immediately mentioning self-scheduled exams. And when self-scheduled exams come up in general conversation, there is little to discuss but the honor code.

To argue that the honor code cannot be equated with self-scheduled exams simply because the honor code in theory is unrelated, or because the honor code of the past is unrelated, or because the honor codes found at other colleges and universities are unrelated, is to deny present reality at Davidson, where the honor code in practice has all but fused with the self-scheduled exam system. The faculty will do more to undermine the honor code by passing the minority “dual system” motion than it might at first imagine.

The Campus Forum

Not so Different

To the Editor:

It is fashionable among many Davidson students to talk about Davidson and the real world as if they were two very separate entities. Of course, it is true that academic institutions have a somewhat different air about them than other institutions. But why some students get pernicious delight from drawing this distinction and giving Davidson the bad end of the comparison is not clear to me at all.

Many times the complaint is heard that the daily routine at Davidson gets dull after a while, which I think all routines do eventually. I have two comments to make about dull routines: first, be thankful that you are dissatisfied, that your mind wants fresh impulses, that you are still alive; second, get those fresh impulses and take advantage of your dissatisfaction, for it seems to me that people tend to be most creative and productive when they are disturbed in some way. A corollary to the problem of routines...is that of an inadequate social life. The Davidson social scene is somewhat less than perfect. But how many people who work for a living are totally satisfied with their social life? I submit that it is a very small number. Moreover, I think it is each person’s responsibility to try to improve his or her own social life. But I would urge folks to keep in mind that it is not so important to be where the excitement is, as to be excited. Try enthusiasm—it can be contagious. But what about dullness and dissatisfaction later in life? Practically everyone feels the need to escape or be released from the tedium of everyday existence. This release can be accomplished by various means such as entertainment, sex, alcohol, travel, or daydreaming. None of these means of escape, however, furnish any stimulus of a profound and lasting nature. Nothing refreshes the mind so much as tackling a problem quite different from the ones that have been occupying one’s attention. In short, the process of learning and understanding is something that is basically refreshing and enjoyable. But in order to enrich oneself through learning, a great deal of effort and discipline is often required. A person with a liberal arts education, such as Davidson tries to provide, is in a uniquely advantageous position to have the necessary skills and inclination to release himself from his day-to-day routine in an ultimately satisfying way. Thus Davidson can help a person to expand his or her own world, whether that person chooses to consider it to be real or not.

Larry Morton '79

Opportunity Missed

To the Editor:

During the past three years I have heard a steadily increasing number of complaints from frustrated, disappointed students over enrollment problems, registration, and drop-add procedures. In the words of Dr. Klein, committee chairman, “we want to solve the problem, but we have to know what the problem is.” “We are not bound to the current registration procedures, if there is a better way we can change,” said Dr. Burts. The committee wants to help, and you know as well as I do that something has to be done.

Do we want to raise the ceilings on oversubscribed courses and sacrifice the educational advantages of small class size? Is there cause to exert pressure on the administration to re-allocate the budget so that more professors can be hired? Are students who are dissatisfied with their schedules able to work their problems out during the drop-add period? Do we want afternoon classes, night classes, or classes during the 10:00 hour? Is it fair for students who don’t need their good numbers to use them to obtain courses for a friend with a bad number? These are only a few of the questions that need to be addressed. Either you need to channel your complaints in the right direction or stop complaining.

Peggy Noel '79

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Letters may be edited for space (over 200 words) and clarity.

Editor: Pam Cameron
Executive Editor: Martin Hunter
Business Manager: Deane Odom
Managing Editor: Dennis McLawhorn
Senior News Editor: Bo Peeples
Senior Features Editor: Barry Sachtjen
Senior Sports Editor: George McGaugh
Senior Opinion Editor: Rick Jenkins
News Editor: Carole Lopiston
News Editor: Suzanne Newberry
Features Editor: Bert Mobley
Sports Editor: Sheri Gravett
Opinion Editor: Margaret Jackson
News Graphics Editor: Margaret Hunter
Features Graphics Editor: Ralph Lasley
Sports Graphics Editor: Ann Sneetier
Opinion Graphics Editor: Lucy Philips
Advertising Manager: Karen Long
Circulation Manager: Amanda Hall
Production Manager: Ann Garner
Research Director: David Cadenhead
Art Editor: James Gelly
Art Editor: Gregg Strader
Photography Director: Mark Hess
Asst. Executive Editor: Mark Barrett
Asst. News Editor: Jean Soracco
Asst. Features Editor: Rob Gilson
Asst. Sports Editor: Howard Browne
Asst. News Graphics Editor: Lynn McClintock
Asst. Features Graphics Editor: Tandy Giltend
Asst. Sports Graphics Editor: Karen Sancilin
Asst. Opinion Graphics Editor: Picky Watson
Asst. Circulation Manager: Donya Boylston
Asst. Production Manager: Aida Doss
Asst. Production Manager: Don Caldwell
Asst. Research Director: Phil Howerton
Asst. Photography Director: B. Pinced
Asst. Photography Director: Gia Rartain
Asst. Art Editor: Marshall Waddell
Production Associate: Richard Neil
Production Associate: Marshall Waddell