THE DAVIDSONIAD
The South's Foremost College Weekly
Volume LXVIII, Number 14
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Departments alter major requirements
By JIM GARRETT and JOANNA HUNT
Staff Writers

As part of what Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann said he sees as a slow, but significant, change in Davidson’s curriculum, the English and Math Departments altered their requirements for majors.

Last Wednesday, the English Department announced an alternative plan for meeting major requirements. This plan calls for the replacement of English 399 and English 499 with a newly-designed course, English 495. This alternative course was approved by the Department on Tuesday, January 16, according to Chairman Richard Cole, and was presented to English majors by different members of the Department the next morning in a meeting. The course has been approved by the whole faculty and will be offered each fall term beginning next year.

The Math Department’s change will, according to Department Chairman R. Bruce Jackson, “make accessible broader and more useful applications of mathematics to students at the post-calculus level.”

Currently, English majors take 399 and 499, courses which are essentially independent studies designed to prepare students for comprehensive examinations. The department believes students will be prepared better for the comprehensive exams if they are given more guidance in their studies. English 495 is designed to provide this needed guidance. Cole feels that the new system will eliminate some of the dissatisfaction with the independent studies in 399 and 499, and will definitely give the students more guidance.

Associate Professor of English Anthony Abbott, who (see Major, page 11)

Basketball team grabs two big wins; reverses month-long losing streak
By BRYON KELLEHER and DAVID NEISLER
Staff Writers

Davidson’s Wildcats made it two in a row last night in Johnston Gym with a powerful 87-72 victory over the Southern Conference leading Citadel Bulldogs. The win over Wake Forest on Monday night and the win last night give the Cats a 6-11 record for the season and end a frustrating 11-game losing streak. The Bulldogs were 11-2 coming into last night’s game.

A packed house at Johnston Gym saw the Cats jump to an 8-0 lead in the opening minutes. Davidson controlled the game’s tempo from that point on. Freshman center Jamie Hall commented, “I think our fast start was a carryover from the Wake Forest win. That game gave us a lot of momentum.” The Cats shot a torrid 66 percent from the field in the first half, led by John Gerdy’s 12 points. Brian Rowan also chipped in 9 points. On defense, Davidson was able to control the boards with Hall grabbing eight rebounds. By halftime, Davidson led 47-33.

In the second half, the Cats continued to outshoot the Bulldogs. Todd Haynes explained, “They opened up with a man-to-man defense but we were too tough inside. When they went to a zone, John killed them.” Even though the Citadel shot well from the field, Gerdy hit five key baskets to keep the Bulldogs at a safe distance. Then with four minutes to go, Jamie Hall put the game out of reach with three straight baskets, including two vicious slam dunks. Davidson coasted the rest of the way for their first Southern Conference victory of the season.

In addition to Gerdy’s 22 points, Haynes had 18, while Hall scored 20. The Citadel was led by Rick Swing and Tom Slawson, who each scored 14. The Citadel cause was also aided by Cartwright with 13, Nesbit with 10, and French and Holland each hitting 6. Davidson's Ernie Reigel hit 7, Perkey had 6, and Hickert had 3.

The turnovers in the game favored the Cats to their 9. Despite the turnover advantage, the Bulldogs could never come closer than 6 points at any time during the game. Point guard Ernie Reigel explained Davidson’s recent surge, “John, Jamie and Todd, who are the real nucleus of our team, have been playing extremely well. The team is fitting in well behind them. We are now playing our own game instead of the other team’s.”

The Cats meet Southern Conference power Furman in Char-Lotte on Saturday. Bier comet mi 1979 PREP ARR BRE I OST RRE Freshman Jamie Hall fates Benet a Keolbt va. The Citadel. (Gress Strader)

Rev. Raynal named new minister to campus church

By RICK JENKINS
News Editor

For as long as Dean of Students Will Terry can remember, the minister of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church has been a Davidson graduate. The newly selected pastor is no exception. The congregation voted January 7 to install the Reverend Charles Raynal, III, ’65; he will arrive in February.

Although his degree from Davidson somewhat influenced his nomination, it was not a prerequisite, said Minister to Students Rush Otey. “The (Pulpit Nominating) Committee looked at many people, most of whom were ‘not Davidson' grads,” added Otey. Raynal will extend this tradition when his new responsibilities begin officially February 25. “His experience with campus settings, his administrative abilities, and his social and communal concerns are (qualities) that the church needs,” explained Otey.

Raynal has worked with socially deprived children before, and Otey said he hopes he will continue this work in Davidson. Raynal’s selection is the culmination of a long and thorough search conducted by the Pulpit Nominating Committee. Committee Chairman Dr. Locke White said the position is one requiring an effective combination of preaching and ministerial duties. The Committee sought someone who could fulfill both orders, but with neither one taking precedence over the other. Minister to Students Rush Otey said he is impressed with the new pastor, citing youth and ability among his noted attributes.

“Dr. Raynal (see Minister, page 11)

Despite frequent student complaints, WDAV director says he’s pleased

By ANN GARNER
Research Editor

In November 1978 the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees reinforced radio station WDAV’s commitment to classical programming. Since that time, the various upheavals have subsided and the station runs fairly smoothly. Public enthusiasm for the switch is apparently strong. “Most of the people that call are very enthusiastic,” said Robert Payne, chief announcer. Don Lovell, Director of WDAV added, “From December 1 the contributions we've received from memberships and gifts has run well over $1000.” The public has been very supportive of the change in WDAV.

Presently, the station is staffed with student disc jockeys, the majority of whom gained their experience working under the old station. Student staffer Tim Owens commented, “Before a DJ got to choose his own music which was personal. I’m glad the station’s more organized but we could use some of the old personality.” Yet Michael Kehs disagreed, “The fact that I don’t pick the music out of the stacks doesn’t bother me. The biggest need now is for expertise.”

Payne views his return to WDAV in two ways. “I felt that by coming back we could keep DAV open to students who wanted to become involved in broadcasting. Also, I came back because I personally wanted to keep a hand in radio.” In addition, Payne finds that student opinions have been encouraged by the directors. “Once we came back, we were given responsibility and our counsel was valued and taken into account, especially in the hiring of a new director,” said Payne. He continued, “We’ve regained our credibility. Our suggestions are taken more easily than before because we've demonstrated that we can work under their guidelines.”

As of now, the station managers have hesitated to evolve any specific programming format until the arrival of Edison S. McIntyre. One of his responsibilities, according to Lovell, will entail the establishment of a training program for interested students and present student staff members. “I still presume it will be student staffed,” said Lovell. Communications Director Martha Roberts added that any solicitation of student staff workers will depend on McIntyre. As specified in the Statement of Organization for WDAV, students are eligible “for paid positions.” And for many participants, this is an added feature to their participation with WDAV. Lowe echoed the feelings of many staff members, “the money I get from DAV is important, too.” At this time, students receive the work-study pay of $2.50 an hour. Yet Payne noted that the administration is presently trying to get around an HEW regulation for the College in order to pay the WDAV staff.

(see WDAV, page 11)