Nancy Macconnachie, majoring in Educational Psychology and Sociology, and Doug Horn, a Sociology major, have enjoyed their experience as Freshmen
Advisors. (Phil Howerton)

Freshman athlete Macconnachie applies personal experience to college

By JEAN SORACCO
Asst. Features Editor

“I think it cost us two cases of beer before we finished writing the people hunt clues. The only way
to get help was to hand anyone we saw a beer and then give them a pencil,” said Doug Horn
about some of his and Nancy Macconnachie’s incidents as freshman advisors.

Nancy is from Anderson, South Carolina. Having been studying through the Center for Special Studies, Nancy will be graduating with
a major in Educational Psychology and Sociology. She said she hopes to continue on to graduate school and study clinical
psychology.

“I feel that there is a big scale change coming in education. The system has basically remained the same for
200 years. One of the big questions is what is the best method of teaching? Everyone is trying new and
different ways and I want to be a part of the change.”

They didn’t seriously think about running until shortly before the campus-wide election.

Students and townspeople form Davidson Energy Group

By Davidsonian Correspondent

“After months of relative confusion, the Davidson Energy Group is finally coming together into a coordinated and functional organization. As
a joint effort by students and townspeople to deal with the entire spectrum of problems related to energy, it represents
a unique constituency of people throughout the Davidson community,” said Future Energy Sources chairman, Geof Little.

The present-day Davidson Energy Group evolved from two smaller groups which had been working with energy problems since last Spring.
One group was the student research group organized by Roger Brown ('78) which participated in the Barnwell protest last May.
The second was a group of townspeople which formed over the summer and participated in the public hearings in August
concerning Duke Power's application for a license to operate the McGuire Nuclear Station, according to Little.

In October the two groups, realizing their similar interest and the need for a coordinated effort by students and townspeople,
formed the present Davidson Energy Group to deal with all aspects of the energy problem. Two subgroups were then formed,
the Nuclear Action Group and a Future Energy Sources Group.

The Nuclear Action Group, headed by Litith Otey, represents that segment of the overall Group which is primarily concerned with
problems related to nuclear power. The group, having studied nuclear power for the last nine months, is strongly opposed to
the expansion of the commercial nuclear power industry, explained Little. This opposition is based on various factors, he said, some
of the most notable being, “the lack of a proven and safe means of disposing of radioactive nuclear wastes which
can remain dangerously radioactive for tens of thousands of years, the potentially disastrous results of a major accident at a
nuclear power plant, the potentially dangerous results of an accident involving transport of radioactive material, the potential for increased proliferation
of nuclear weapons with the expansion of commercial nuclear industries around the world, and government underwriting of the nuclear industry.”

The Future Energy Sources group represents those members of the D.E.G. who are primarily concerned with conservation and alternate energy
systems, according to Little. The group has contacts with the N.C. Conservation Council, the N.C. Solar Energy Association, and the
newly formed N.C. Coalition for Renewable Energy Resources, and, Little said, the group hopes to draw on all these organizations
for information and other technical resources.

Some of the aims of this group are to promote implementation of solar and other appropriate technologies, to help the
college develop a comprehensive conservation and energy policy, to provide a research file on conservation and energy alternatives for use
by people within the Davidson community, and to develop demonstration projects to promote the use of solar energy.

“Ideologically, the Davidson Energy Group supports efforts for a moratorium on the expansion of the nuclear power industry,” Little stated.
Yet the group realizes the need to present a viable, economically feasible alternative to nuclear power. Therefore its aim is
also to distribute information and resources which will promote conservation and the use of such decentralized energy systems as solar
hot water heaters and wood-burning stoves. The aim is to achieve a maximum of energy efficiency and self-sufficiency in every
home or building in the community,” Little added.

Within two weeks, Little said, the various research files, bibliographies, and lists of contacts in related organizations should be set
up in the college library. Members of the group are working with the library to obtain books, periodicals, and government
documents related to energy. Other members are working on the aforementioned comprehensive conservation and energy plan for the college.

Members of the Nuclear Action Group are circulating a petition in town and on campus in opposition to a proposal
to transport radioactive waste through Charlotte, from South Carolina to the McGuire plant, seven miles from Davidson. Little said the
Duke Power Company is applying for a license to transport and store some 300 truck-loads of spent fuel beginning in
March.

The Group is also working with NC-PIRG.As an intervening party in the NRC licensing hearings to be held in Charlotte,
"It is with such projects as these that the Davidson Energy Group is attempting to bring about a new concern
for and a new direction to the entire community’s energy future. As a forward-looking group in its earliest stages, the
group is seeking support from all parts of the Davidson community,” said Little.

January 26, 1979—The Davidsonian—1

Every Tuesday and Thursday, Nancy goes to Morganton, N.C. She works on a research project there from 9 am to
3 pm and then spends four hours working and being with deaf children, for which she has learned sign language.
“It is really rewarding to help these children who find it hard to believe that there are people who come
to help and visit because they want to come,” Nancy said. She also enjoys racquetball, volleyball, basketball, swimming, and reading
(when there is time).

Doug, a native of Virginia, is majoring in Sociology. He plans “to go out, join the real world, and start
making money.” He has been captain of both the Cross Country and Track teams for the past three years. Doug
is also a member of the KA fraternity, the Review Board, and plays IMAC basketball.

The decision to run for the freshman advisorship started as a joke between Nancy and Doug. Both had applied to
be fall counselors. Because neither one thought that they would be chosen, Doug said to Nancy, “It’s a shame because
they'll be missing the two best hall counselors;” both were chosen. During the beginning of their junior year, they joked
about running for the freshman advisor positions since they were “the best candidates for the job.”

“We both enjoyed being hall counselors and wanted to give some input,” said Nancy. “We've tried to get out information
to the freshmen about the many programs that Davidson offers, the Center for Special Studies, and the foreign studies programs
that Davidson and other schools offer. One thing we were against was the triple rooms.”

“We've tried to stress very heavily the Honor System so that it will be the foremost thought of the students
throughout their years at Davidson,” Doug added. They said they have also tried to encourage students to take part in
campus activities.

“Being a freshman advisor,” said Nancy, “has taught me a lot about organization, thinking ahead, and the workings of Davidson.”
Doug said, “I’ve met lots of people and had to be more organized. It’s been rewarding and frustrating because there
is a fine line between success and failure in many of the activities that we have planned.”

Looking back over the year, they said they have enjoyed working and getting to know the hall counselors, and they
were pleased with orientation. “Of course,” said Nancy, “some improvements are needed. We hope to start a notebook filled with
helpful hints to pass on to next year’s advisors, Anne Eglin and John Willingham.”

Poet Turner wins second place in Writers’ Contest

Steve Turner, ’79, has won second place in the Annual Charlotte Writers’ Club Contest. The contest is a poetry competition.
Turner, an English major, was cited for his poem entitled “Rail Song.”

Wind Ensemble to perform Tuesday

By LINDA HOOPES - Features Editor

If you’re a music lover, or just looking for a good time, take an hour Tuesday night and treat yourself
to the Davidson Wind Ensemble Concert. According to Music Professor William Lawing, the 8:15 concert should only last a little
over an hour, including the intermission, so it is the perfect length for a study break.

The concert will open with Rossini’s “March for the Sultan Abdul Medjid,” which is a rather long name for a
short march tune. This will be followed by William Schuman’s “New England Triptych,” which Lawing termed “the meat of the
concert.” After this collection of three colonial folk tunes, there will be a short intermission.

The second half begins with Mozart’s “Divertimento for Two Oboes, Two Horns, and Two Bassoons.” The featured instrumentalists will be
Joanna Hunt, Joan Redding, Lisa Harbottle, George Stroebel, Charles Askins, and Ed Trumbull. Toward the end of the program, Dean
of Students Will Terry guest stars in P.D.Q. Bach’s “Grand Serenade for an Awful Lot of Winds and Percussion.” This
somewhat pompous, totally frivolous piece is highlighted by a passage called the “crasho grosso” which... well, you'll have to hear
it yourself.

The best pieces from Tuesday’s concert will be combined with the best of the fall concert to make up the
program for the Ensemble’s tour over Spring break. They will head to Florida, hitting Disneyworld, Clearwater, New Port Richey, and
a few other sunny spots. Lawing said he is optimistic about the tour, saying that “playing the same concert five
nights in a row really pulls the band together... about halfway through, the jitters of the first few nights have
gone... Tuesday night’s performance is the last for the Winter term.”

Spring term brings a Jazz Ensemble concert on the 19th and 21st of April, a production of Guys and Dolls
using about half of the Wind Ensemble on April 26, 27, and 28th and May 3, 4, and 5, and,
weather permitting, an outdoor Wind Ensemble Concert on May 6th.
