*6—The Davidsonian—April 6, 1979*

IF IT WASN'T FOR A TEST TOMORROW, I'D BE SAILING RIGHT NOW

THE PARTYING TONIGHT WILL BE RICH AND GORGEOUS! BABE, I'LL BE SET FOR LIFE ON THE GROUND, HERE.

MANY MEN SMOKE, BUT FU NANCY.

BB and B return with info on everything

By BAD BERNARD AND BONEHEAD

Shalom! Salaam! Bad Bernard and Bonehead return from Cairo to proclaim to all Americans that the blossoming of the flower of international peace will culminate in the springtime of brotherly love between our friends Egypt and Israel.

There are several important matters that need to be decided in the immediate future. These center around the fact that Arab countries are protesting the use of underarm stick deodorant by Anwar Sadat. P.L.O. Leader Yasser Arafat felt that this was a symbolic gesture by Egypt against the Arab countries. “He doesn’t smell like an Arab,” cried Yasser. “We look at this as a threat to the Arab League."

In order to simplify the negotiations, BB and B have appointed Skip Brown to the post of Diplomat of Foreign Peace. Skip has vowed to open his heart to every man, woman, and child and to kick the natural hell out of those who become dissident.

On our return flight from Cairo, we stopped off at Paradise Island (just across the bridge from Nassau) and Bernie was able to mingle with the Shah of Iran while Bonehead played the one-armed bandit at a local casino. The Shah has been holding a secret summit with Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps to determine the cause of their respective losses in the current year. Bernie explained to them, “It was meant to be.”

On the local political level, there was a leak to Bonehead that newly elected SGA President John Jackson planned to use his victory merely as a steppingstone to the papacy. Jackson feels that it is time to put an American white boy in the Vatican and he cannot rationalize waiting for an extended length of time to take the position.

“Besides,” said the future Pope John John I, “I have been to Rome (Ga.) and I think being pope is a damn important part of my law school application.” Amen.

So much for politics. Now let's mention something worthwhile. There are several matters that we (as respectable journalists) feel that we must bring to your attention.

First, look above our article. Did they put one of those stupid cartoons up there? We don't mean to be disrespectful, but—

Second, two weeks ago we wrote an article that was better than it appeared, but parts were edited by our wonderful staff. The only explanation for this would be that they could not understand what we wrote. This is preposterous!

We write to make understand of. Big dog firetruck excrescent gastrectomy. Arm yourself and take the methodology of empirical.

We are proud to announce that the First Annual Bad Bernard and Bonehead Lake Norman International Billfish Tournament Invitational United is scheduled for April 6-8. Contestants are allowed to use only #6 Heddon Mighty Hooks and small chunks of Slater meatloaf.

Prizes will be awarded for longest male billfish, most outstanding female billfish, and billfish with the closest resemblance to Dr. Cora Nelson. First prize will be a weekend with Miss Billfish—soon to be selected from the limited number of attractive girls in the freshman class.

This week's softball games included a major upset. The Cavanaugh Kids fractured Bone 13-3 in a game that was called due to the ten-run rule. Jeff Harris had two home runs for the Kids, a team that lost to the Conqueror Worms 28-17 earlier in the week. Gifford Piercy jumped over second base but was tagged as he landed at third.

Return of Slak Slak cut the limbs off Sequoia 10-1. KA played with Several Furry Little Animals and scored over them 16-2. Su Madre pushed back the Hittites 14-4.

Roots remained undefeated by downing the Cleveland Browns 19-7, PDT BC’s won over GRKSPL 17-15 and ARA cooked Tuts Up 19-16.

Our favorite team, the Sprouts, demolished the Black Sheep 6-5 under the heavy tobacco chewing of Steve Shelby and Dave Profitt.

Now for the Top Ten:

1. Return of Slak
2. Four Skins
3. McFleet and Stuff
4. Su Madre
5. KA
6. Charlie's Angels
7. Longest Yard
8. Roots
9. 69's
10. PIKA

Be cool and crazy! Later.

---

Friday, April 6
8:00 & 10:30
Love Auditorium
$1.50 or season pass

The Jean Shoppe

“Your Levi Store”

Easy Lay-Aways

The real thing. Just like our men's straight leg jeans, except for the fit. And do they fit perfectly! Not tight or binding because they’re made for a woman, not a man, in comfortable 100% cotton denim. With five pockets, even a watch pocket for your bus fare.

And legs so super straight they’re perfect for boots or any other kicking around you’d like to do.

Quality never goes out of style.

663-5515
206 N. Main-Mooresville
(Across from Belk’s)

Clip this Ad and receive 10% off purchase (Offer valid until April 14, 1979)

Elizabeth Dean, Sara Todd, and members of the women's track team at the relays, which are to be held Saturday. [Greg Strader]