Craig Pyles highsteps at the line...
By DAVE DONALDSON Staff Writer

Southwestern at Memphis became Davidson's second victim in this young 1979 season. The Wildcats cruised to a sloppy 42-6 win
in a game marred by turnovers and penalties. This Saturday, Lafayette, also undefeated, comes to Davidson. Although each game is
viewed as important, the Leopards pose the first serious threat to Davidson's unblemished record. Lafayette's defense runs from a basic
5-2 alignment with several variations and stunts. The offense employs an I-backfield, balancing their attack by running and passing equally
well. Kickoff time is 1:30 at Richardson Field.

Davidson's offense played last Saturday much as they had against Catawba—starting slowly before getting on track. Although total offensive yardage
was 556 yards, there were six Davidson fumbles (four of which were recovered by Southwestern) and one interception. Such a
high number of turnovers would prove disastrous against a tough opponent. But, as Coach Ed Farrell commented after the game,
“I think if you can play that poorly and win 42-6, you must be pretty good.”

Davidson's initial possession was halted by a fumble. However, Phil Gilbert intercepted to get the ball back. Two plays later,
Craig Pyles broke through the line on a center play and outran the Southwestern secondary for a 79-yard score. Davidson's
rushing attack took over in the second quarter as Alvin Atkinson and Ray Sinclair scored on short runs. The teams
retired for halftime with the score 21-6.

Gifford Piercy gathered in a 65-yard scoring strike from Brian Whitmire to open the second half scoring. The defense, stopping
Southwestern’s offense cold after their first-quarter score, then scored as Barry Cannon ran 40 yards with an interception. Reserves played
much of the fourth quarter. The second offense added the last touchdown as Leonard Walker punched the ball in from
the one-yard line. The rushing attack was led by Craig Pyles (119 yards), Alvin Atkinson (129 yards), and Ray Sinclair
(88 yards). Brian Whitmire completed six of twelve passes for 174 yards as Gifford Piercy picked off four aerials for
a total of 150 yards.

(Kenny Connor) and heads for a 79-yard TD.

More garbage from IMAC turkeys Bonehead and Brick Brothers
By BONEHEAD and the BRICK BROTHERS

Bonehead and the Brick Brothers, after a night of grain punch and barking at moving motorboats on Main Street, have
come to the stark realization that the Frosh class is sitting on its collective cane. Therefore, as a B and
BB public service activity, we have a few suggestions for the freshmints to help liven up their first term at
Davidson. Some of these pranks are in the history books but can be just as delightful if repeated in proper
fashion. We do not endorse any of these activities but merely print them for your reading pleasure in hopes that
they may be carried out. Freshmints, arm yourselves and take to the hills! Here are our suggestions:

1) Fill your laundry bag with concrete blocks.
2) Tie Butch to the back of your car and see how fast you can drag him to Charlotte.
3) Win a flickerball game (i.e., don't play any of the twerps on your hall).
4) Steal Sterling Martin's golf cart and hang it from the goalpost on Richardson Field.
5) Tie Ed Farrell to Sterling Martin's golf cart.
6) "Circle up” and form your own southern-oriented fraternity.
7) When asked at a Humes discussion, tell Abernathy to cram it. He will appreciate your spunk.
8) Burn the E house at 6 p.m. on Thursday.
9) Start water fights. Don't pay Will's fine and you may break Belk’s 1978 accrued fine record of $9,012.13.
10) Buy your books, get a check; take a test, get a check; take a dump, get a check. Check
it out!!!

And now for the B and BB pre-season ratings:

1) SAE: The offending champions led by peripatetic 5-year letterman Jim Richards look formidable again. Imbecilic back Joby Merton may
contribute as well if he can find his supporter. Andy I-MacDonald should spearhead a tough but preppy defense. Should go
10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.
2) KA #1: With the signing of several free agents and rookies, this team will be able to fill the
vacancies left by graduating seniors. H. Stockton is a peripatetic tailback with the speed of a J. Stroud on uppers.
The offense is as...complex as the synthesis of ribosomal RNA, but by the end of the season, an organism may
form that could be a threat to society. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

3) HURTIN 4 CERTIN: The chaotic H.4.C. squad is back after an unchallenged 3rd place finish in '78. Peripatetic libertarian
Minor Sinclair is back from a 3-month call of nature to spearhead the club. Former virgin Mark Carpenter is back,
as are token ethnics Vince Parker and Heywhore Silveira, who were reinstated after remonstrative calls from HEW and the Immigration
Board. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

4) OLD MEN: The "Menopause Kids" will try hard to make the championship so they can get up for the
last time. The peripatetic enforcer "Disco Dave" Shi is back, and erstwhile MacFleet star J. Stroud was given a token
desk job so he could play. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

5) WILD ONES: This team is composed of peripatetic members of the Hole and one loner from a frat with
the purple door. Griffith can throw pines better than anyone in the league, and his hang time should allow S.
Smith to come from the backfield to score in the end zone. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

6) CARIBOU LIPS: Fresh from the tundra, this grossly overrated team draws its ranking from its peripatetic name. Nuff said,
"Kelvin sucks." Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

7) BORN TO RUN: These Bruce Springsteen groupies are of questionable merit but have peripatetic leanings. Their hopes are better
than last year because they were terrible then and could not be worse unless they have declined. Should go 10-0
and to the Rose Bowl.

8) RECKLESS ABANDON: Peripatetic Bear Keith should be mentioned. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

9) WARKS: This peripatetic remnant of the non-KA War Kiwis and a few guys that Risely knows should have a
better than average chance of playing .500 ball. Jim Kuster, Mike McGrady, and Haynus will spread pie on the field.
Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

10) NEW ORLEANS SAINTS: This peripatetic bunch of yay boys had trouble losing to Atlanta but should find the going
easier. Should go 10-0 and to the Rose Bowl.

We only had time to get the scores from Monday's games, and here they are for your peripatetic benefit: Warks
25, The Meet 7, SPE 52, SOS 0. KA 43, Public Enemy Number One 0. Wild Ones 54, Longitudinal Forces
6. PIKA 31, Running Sores 6. East Men 44, YA Runners capture 15.

In the women’s league: Jim's team beat George's team, Joe's team beat Sam's team, Bill's team beat Bill's team. See
page 13 for more about the women’s teams.

That's all for now. Do minimum sex. Do Smarties. Eat Hi-Liters. Buy a Chrysler. BOA stay out of our refrigerator.

Later: Stone Mt. Race: meet Wingate & UNCC next week

By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

The Davidson cross-country team, paced by senior George Strobel, overwhelmed Georgia State Saturday to gain its initial triumph of the
season. The dual meet, which is annually run in connection with the Stone Mountain Invitational Road Race, was completely one-sided
as the Cats romped by the score of 19-44 (fifteen is the lowest possible winning score in cross-country).

Strobel, who ran 25:5 over the five-mile course to slice 50 seconds from his previous best at Stone Mountain, led
the top seven finishers, all of whom covered the course in under 27 minutes. Such depth is unprecedented in Wildcat
cross-country history and led Coach Norman Koller to characterize this year's squad as "easily the strongest ever at Davidson College."

The depth of the team can be seen more clearly when one notices the difference between the top and bottom
finishers. Bart Landess, the team's second finisher, and Jeff Morrow in seventh—a scant 42 seconds. The rush to the finish
line behind Landess was led by freshman Jack Smith, who was shadowed by John Hoots and Danny Armistead. The Morrow
connection, Terry and Jeff, rounded out the top seven. Among this group, there is but one senior, the hardworking Strobel.

Other encouraging performances were those of Robert Frierson and Greg Burnard. Frierson, a junior running cross-country for the first time
simply as track preparation, finished strongly in 27:34, and Burnard, who turned in some surprisingly fast times during—
