(continued from page 1) seemed to believe. Furthermore, students contended that the scheduling of exams would not reduce the incidence
of cheating. In sum, student opinion was almost unanimously opposed to any move to increase the possibility of scheduled exams.
The petition arose Friday in response to the release of the (continued from page 1) the 1978-1979 freshman class show
that while 70 percent of the men applicants in the top tenth of their high school class were admitted, only
58 percent of the top decile of women applicants were admitted. The proposal further points out that since a trend
is developing toward more women applicants, yet while Davidson continues to maintain a fixed quota, a greater number of female
applicants will be refused simply because they are women. Already since 1976 the proportion of female to male applicants to
Davidson has risen 10 percent. The recommendation also states that with an admissions policy more favorable to women, the number
of female applicants will increase because they will foresee greater chances for acceptance. This could help assuage the crunch in
the declining number of college students that has already begun to hit many small private liberal arts colleges. “I think
it is a very sound proposal that reflects good research,” said Dean of Admissions Edmunds White, who also serves on
the Advisory Committee reviewing the proposal. One reservation he has, however, is that equal access could exceed a reasonable limit
and not just change the quota.

NOW - Exams

Of those signing the petition, some, like Shi, stated as an important reason for their action their deep concern about
the pressure placed on the honor code by self-scheduled exams. McKelway, while stressing that “our students do amazingly well” in
the self-scheduled exam system, felt “that this particular system puts unusual and unwarranted pressures on the students who may find
themselves under intense pressures.” Other professors who signed the petition gave differing reasons for their move. These professors felt that
students could not perform fairly and effectively if they had the option of scheduling their exams. French objected to the
need for making out self-scheduled exams a week before the end of the term. “When you are teaching with discussion,
perception, and understanding,” he said, “sometimes the last week can be the most significant.” McKelway agreed with this evaluation. Davies
stated that he “objects strenuously to the procedure of making up exams.”

Another procedural objection to self-scheduling was the fact that during the exam period no professor is present to clarify obscure
questions or to correct errors on the exam. French points out that “unless a faculty member will sit in his
office during all exams, there will be no means of clarification.” Professors also pointed out that the current restriction on
talking about exams, as a result of the use of self-scheduled exams, may deprive students of an important educational experience—that
of going over the exam and sharing views about the questions with other students.

If the Advisory Committee on Admissions favorably reviews the NOW proposal, it will be passed to College President Sam Spencer
who can recommend it to the Trustees for final approval. The Advisory Committee has asked NOW to submit more of
the research they have done on equal access admissions, such as faculty opinion and the effects the policy has had
on other colleges employing it. Lisa Shingler, Chairperson of Davidson’s NOW subcommittee, said, “We’re guardedly optimistic, encouraged by the fact
that they’re (the Advisory Committee on Admissions) continuing to look at the proposal.” Last September, senior Martha Sanford submitted a
proposal to end sexual quotas in admissions policy at Davidson. She approached the Constitutional Review Committee on September 28 with
a petition bearing 340 student signatures in support of her proposal. The CRC, however, did not act on Sanford’s proposal
because it was not perceived as a Constitutional matter. But Sanford said, “I believe we were successful in that we
made students think about the issue.” At that time, she expressed the hope that the National Organization for Women could
continue to pursue the matter.

Several professors who signed the petition support the use of self-scheduled exams and plan to continue using them in their
classes. These professors, who include Patterson, Stell, Myers, and Randy Nelson, said they supported the petition because it would give
an alternative. Although none of the professors who did not sign the petition questioned the sincerity of those who did,
several expressed a feeling that the...Present system will work with “I like the system in principle,” says Political Science Professor
Louis Ortmayer. “I have some gripes in practice, but those are purely administrative.” Ortmayer mentioned the short amount of time
allotted to grade exams as a problem.

Chemistry professor Horace Bryan, who chaired the EPC subcommittee to study self-scheduling, feels that some administrative problems would arise from
the adoption of a dual system of examinations. He felt that problems would be caused by the necessity of making
up two different exams for two different sections of a course, and the possible necessity of extending the exam period
so that students would not have three scheduled exams too close together. Bryan also bets that problems could arise in
a system where some students were taking exams they could discuss and others were not.

Almost all of the professors interviewed said they see very little evidence of cheating in their own classes, and add
they still have confidence in students’ integrity. All stress that students would be wrong to assume there has been a
lack of faith in the honor system on the part of the faculty.

Academic Vice-President Price Zimmermann stressed the role of students in preserving the self-scheduled exam system. He feels that if the
system is to be preserved, students must work at it. Zimmermann looks for “some official declaration by students of their
determination to ensure that the honor system works well enough to cover self-scheduled exams. The faculty might be impressed,” he
says, “by an action of the SGA, or a resolution of the (continued from page 6).”

The lessons learned in offices and hospitals and the entire idea of working for a living are concepts that we
miss in our education at Davidson. These experiences won’t appear on any transcript, but they definitely affect our careers. “I
haven't cracked a book yet, but I’ve often spent nights brainstorming for new ideas for Tuesday's show,” says one student
who works for the station, as evidenced by this workman. (continued from page 2)

The symptoms are tiredness, non-specific muscle aches, and occasional joint pain. Fever is very common and may at times reach
the 102 to 103 range. The rash appears as small red spots on the face and chest initially, and then
spreads to the rest of the body while the first spots tend to blend together. (continued from page 7)

“There are not but four students at Davidson who are not eighteen,” Smith commented, so there is no problem there.
Positive proof of age is required to keep out “unwelcome” guests and minors that may cause the beer and wine
license to be suspended. “I see the 900 Room as an example to the rest of the campus. We serve
beer now. If you are doing the serving, you can tell someone he’s had enough, but you cannot tell him
that he has had too much of his own beer and cannot have any more,” C. Shaw explained. (continued from
page 7)

The Jukes are at their best when seen live, preferably in a small auditorium, or better still, in a bar.
They perform their songs with a devotion and an intensity that is impossible to capture on an album. This problem
is heard in the song “Talk to Me”: In concert, the song is a showpiece; on the album, it loses
its intensity when the ending simply fades out in a fashion that does little justice to the concert version. In
concert, Southside Johnny gets down on his knees and sings with a passion that is unquestionably one of the highlights
of the concert. The album version of the song does not really capture this emotion. For the Jukes to be
a successful recording group, they would have to record songs which would sell commercially, but hopefully do justice to their
live act. Once the Jukes combine these two elements, they will reach the popularity they certainly deserve. “Hearts of Stone”
is definitely a step in the right direction for Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes. It is worth listening to
if one is a fan of rock and roll in the truest sense of the word.
