Faculty Retaliation  
Mike Mason  

On November 6, the Faculty of Davidson College, in a brilliant tactical move, voted out the proposed student evaluation forms on grounds uncompromisingly diverse and in language more ambiguous than the guttural utterances of Union Snack Bar personnel. While some of the faculty did suggest alternate methods of student evaluation, such as allotting certain portions of the bathroom walls strictly for student grievances, all were unable to reach agreement as to the most effective means. 

But now, after careful consideration of the professors’ rather undefined demands, a new student evaluation form has been contrived of questions which should prove acceptable to the Faculty, for instance:

1) Was the professor’s complexion relatively free of unsightly blemishes?  
2) Were the bathrooms nearby reasonably clean?  
3) Approximately how many facial expressions did the professor employ effectively during the class period?  
4) Does the professor have any characteristics which made his class interesting (i.e., spitting provocatively, raising his eyebrows, repeating “umm...um...um...ummmmmm...,” talking into various orifices in the classroom, etc.)? Please include a diagram.  
5) Was there course “content”?  
6) Write an essay entitled “Why My Professor Reminds Me of Jesus Christ,” drawing at least eight parallels. (20 min.)

And just to introduce the element of flexibility so many professors desire, there are questions with interchangeable parts, such as:

7) Did your (hamster, professor, raincoat, mother, Edsel) ever (rot, talk, wheeze, genuflect) continually in the (attic, morning, bathroom, K-Mart)?

So there we have it—a flexible, relevant questionnaire. Of course, some may object that it says nothing about the students’ perception of education. Falsehood! It’s apparently the Evaluation that matters, buckos, and not something as worn as improvement of the quality of our education.

Mike Mason writes a fairly regular column for The Davidsonian.

Davidson students are no longer interested in anything but themselves. Apparently, there remain only a few who are willing to give of their time for their school. The student elections next week are an example of the apathy which has traditionally been a part of the Davidson College student body. Most of the offices to be voted on are uncontested. The office of Quips and Cranks editor has gotten no interest at all from the student body.

Although the student elections next week are a perfect example of student apathy, we must realize that this apathy has far graver implications. More likely than not, this apathy is prevalent in more areas than just student elections. This is frightening. Before we realize what is happening, Davidson will become known as an institution without convictions, an institution that just sits back and watches the world go by. Somehow, I can sense the “ivory tower” specter lurking in the closet. We can’t afford to be so lazy.

Many of us say that we're at Davidson to get a good, solid education. Many students say they plan to go to graduate school and hope to succeed. To succeed later you must excel now, and excellence involves more than just academics. You and I both know you don’t...study all the time: Why can’t we help ourselves by helping our school? Davidson College must thrive. The only way we can keep Davidson from falling into the proverbial rut is to get a sense about ourselves and strive for the very best.

You say you’ve got ambition? How can anyone claim to be ambitious that doesn’t try to get involved? Our formal education doesn’t end with daily class assignments. We must assert ourselves. One way to do this would have been to open the door, walk across campus, and sign up for the election. I don’t understand it. You may be selfish and only want to do what will help yourself. Well, don’t think for a minute that a student office would not be a feather in your cap. I can see you now, huddled in your nice, cozy little dorm room with this article in your hand. You’re saying, “big Glenn Kellam is a junior.”

Those Long Somber Lines
Bob Gould

Ever go to a funeral procession? It’s a long line of somber-faced people who move at a painfully slow pace. Ever go through drop-add? It’s a long line of somber-faced Davidson people who move at a painfully slow pace. For many of us who had to stand for two solid hours in line last Tuesday, drop-add was not a pleasant way to spend a sunny afternoon. It was even more disheartening to get into Dr. Burt's office and find that the last space in your course had just been grabbed by the Freshman in front of you.

Some students avoided the procedure by simply waiting until the line had dissipated and others had finished their business. These students are taking Ancient Barbaric Linguistics and Medieval Asian Poetry this term. Dr. Richard Burts, Registrar, was rather surprised at the line that extended out the south doors of Chambers last Tuesday. “My anticipation was that we had most of our add-drops out of the way by the break.” In fact, some 400 students took advantage of the first add-drop session on the Friday before exams. The problem was that many students who only wished to drop a course would not have to waste their time in line. The problem is that students are reluctant to drop a course unless they are sure they can pick up the one they want. A freshman wondered why add-drop couldn’t be done in the same way as it is for all incoming neophytes during orientation. Here we run into the problem of space.

Couldn’t we assign numbers over successive add-drop periods? In this way, students wouldn’t have to wait in line unless their number was about to be called. The student could go into the Registrar's office, do his business, and leave. If he still was not satisfied, he could go back after everyone else had completed their choices. Students who had the worst luck (as determined by computer sheet) could be on first choices for add-drop. Much of the adaptation could be avoided if the process was better organized.

The Davidsonian.