es oe but we eat it anyway and decided to keep it. The kit has really worked well and B&BB
has now expanded its span of omniscience beyond the realm of the mundane 1979-80 IMAC season to a point in
time ten years later. Luckily for you, we decided to impart our wisdom and give all a look at Davidson
in the year 1989. First, we see former football coach Ed (Yahweh) Farrell, after being fired, has worked his way
up the executive ladder at Charlotte Memorial Hospital from orderly to respiratory therapist in order to aid all the “breathers”
in the area. Said “breathers” include the likes of Bob Lapple, Sid Osborn, John Porter, Bill Duke, Elliot Hipp, and
John Thompson. Deeper into the ball we can see Dr. Richard T. DiBenedetto nestled in the Leland Park office as
director of the library. Dr. D’s first act has been to require streaking in the library at least four times
a week. In addition, the living legend from Jersey has taken over as the mentor of the college bowl team,
after besting erstwhile Coach Charlie Lloyd in a battle of wits. Over in the corner of the ball we can
make out Captain J. Edgar Hughes who has ascended to the head of the C.I.A. He has gained world renown
for pursuing dogs all over the globe, a talent he first developed at Davidson. He has been replaced as head
of security by the ubiquitous plenipotentiary Rob Monteeth, who has solved the dog problem by keeping them in a constant
state of (Brad Kerr).

Wrestlers beat Catawba, face Campbell
By DAVID DONALDSON
Staff Writer

Coach Bob Estock is optimistic about his wrestling team. “I really feel strongly about our eleven wrestlers,” he said, and
added, “we’re still green (there are five freshmen on the team) but they’ve all worked hard and I feel we’ll
be successful.” Led by co-captains Rob King and Mike Garfinkel, the Davidson grapplers opened their season with the Catawba Invitational
Wrestling Tournament on November 30 and December 1. King received second in the heavyweight class because he had to forfeit
the final to take the LSATs. Pat McKinsey won second in the 126 lb. class; Garfinkel placed third at 158,
and Scott Smith took fourth at 184. Davidson's next match was a dual match at Catawba on December 5, which
the ’Cats won, 26-20. James Young (118 lbs.) and McKinsey (126 lbs.) won by forfeiture, and Smith (134 lbs.), Van
Wagner (158 lbs.), Garfinkel (167 lbs.), and King (heavyweight) all decisioned their opponents. On December 8, a three-way match between
the Wildcats, Elon, and the Citadel. Inexperience showed as the Cats lost 36-23 to Elon and 50-3 to The Citadel.
Against Elon, McKinsey won by decision while Smith and Tim Brotherton pinned their men. Garfinkel, winning by decision, scored the
only points against the Citadel. The Wildcats were weakened by the absence of King, who was taking the GREs. Coach
Estock and his team look forward to their next match against Campbell College on January 15 at Davidson. He commented,
“If we stay healthy and improve on our techniques and conditioning, we could have a successful season.”

Coach urges sportsmanship
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

Wildcat basketball coach Eddie Biedenbach urges Wildcat fans to show their support for the team this year, but to do
so without waving arms, shirts, and towels at the end line during the opposition's free throw. During the last few
games at the Charlotte Coliseum, Cat fans have taken use of this distraction to cause missed free throws. “It’s just
not in the spirit of the game to wave the hands and shirts,” Biedenbach said.to win the McCalister Sportsmanship Award
this year, but that really has nothing to do with it. It’s just not in the spirit of the game.”
Bie Jenbach added, “I like and appreciate the students and their support at our games. I need it, the team
needs it, we all need it. Sure, I want everybody to yell and scream, but distractions of this sort aren't
good. I truly appreciated the sentiments of the crowd Friday night against Penn, and this criticism is not directed to
some very deserving abuse during free throws. We're trying.”

Copeland House Gallery
CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES
Art Accessories make wonderful Christmas presents!
North Main St., Davidson 892-3005

inebriation. So long, Butch. On the other side of the ball appears Joby Merten—balding now—who has become president of Davidson
College, replacing the revered Sam Spencer, who has gone off in retirement to that paradise in Western Massachusetts. The foresighted
“Uncle Joby” Merten has instituted a number of new programs, all designed to pattern Davidson after the Cincinnati Reds. The
school, it seems, is now building a 65,000-seat baseball stadium and now offers majors in bunting, losing, and astroturf. Any
retired Red is offered a position on the faculty, and George Foster will head all language departments. Fighting and breast
development are heartily encouraged. By the way, Joby’s spot on the college bowl team has been taken away by the
peripatetic plenipotentiary, Rob Monteeth.

Under the ball, B&BB have spotted Theodore F. (Flint) Gray, a social pervert who was randomly selected by the Ouija
board to be an outlet for B&BB’s hostilities. He graduated from Davidson in 1986, married a Labrador retriever, and has
seven really cute puppies. He smells like Kingsport, Tennessee, and pants for the Christmas kiss of his grandmother (if she’s
still alive), who inevitably slips him the tongue. Rumor has it his mom’s a man who’s wanted in five states.
Presently he heads the SPE alumni association along with Hooper Alexander the tenth. Rob Monteeth refused to replace him.

As for B&BB, it seems we remain the omniscient, plenipotentiaries we always have been. B&BB continue to abuse any unfortunate
souls who fall in our path. And now, on to basketball. There has been an upheaval in the top ten
this week. The once esteemed Corpus Cavernosum lost ignominiously and with the utmost disgrace to the Guns of Navarone. The
game was refereed well. Beaver, Marvin, and Ports dealt for the Gunners. Gary MacD. had 36 for the losers. Cool
Breeze and Hurtin 4 Certin both drubbed pitiful freshman teams. James McLain got 31 rebounds and Kevin Hanna got nine
steals for the Breeze. Hurtin 4 Certin led by Minor Sinclair with 26 and Sandy Donald with 29. Vince Parker
blocked a shot. The Bricklayers edged out a weak team. The rest of the Top Ten was extremely idle. A
bunch of FIJIs did well in B league play. So did some other teams. The Kicked Balls did well in
a very well refereed game. The Penal Strikers have a good name, but a bad team. We’ve done the Top
Ten in the wrong order to help hone the analytical skills which have as yet remained untouched due to poor
teaching by Humes professors. Later.

7. Stork
3. Hurtin 4 Certin
6. Guns of Navarone
8. We Know We're Pathetic
1. Fido & the Rear Entries
10. True Grits
9. OSFD
2. Cool Breeze
5. Brick Layers
4. Old Men

START. HAPPY HOUR
Thursday 3-5, 8:30 - 10:30
Friday 8:30 - 11:00
MOLSON ALE .60/bottle
DRAFT PITCHER $1.40
SCHLITZ AND MILLER LITE
DELIVERY SERVICE SUNDAY - WEDNESDAY
