By AIDA DOSS Staff Writer

For seniors Roger Farabee, John Jackson, Jimmy Prappas, and Carol Robinson, the waiting and hoping has just begun. The four were selected last week to represent Davidson in national competition for the prestigious Thomas J. Watson Fellowships.

The fellowships, which carry a stipend of $8,000, are designed to allow college graduates “of unusual promise” to travel abroad for a year studying a project of their own choosing. Although the scope of possible projects is almost limitless, they must be “realistic, imaginative, and personally significant.” This year’s four nominees, narrowed from a group of seventeen by the Graduate Fellowships Committee, described their proposals this week.

Farabee, a Music major, hopes to become an apprentice to organ maker and restorer Jacques Steinkens in Zeist, Holland, who does “more restoration of quality than anyone else in the world.” He will study the design and construction of antique pipes with Steinkens and then tour Germany, France, Italy, and Spain, viewing other antique organs and comparing their design with that of organs in Holland and the United States. Farabee explained that there are many different types of organs, each built to be used for a particular type of music. But in the United States, Farabee said, “We try and play it all on one organ. Instead, we need to understand the organ that the music was written for and the limitations of the particular instrument.” He hopes to construct an organ that will play a fairly wide range of music while still maintaining quality craftsmanship.

Prappas wants to study the effects of the 1974 Cyprus coup which left 200,000 refugees on that island displaced. Prior to the coup, Cyprus had been a “united republic; now it is a federated state with two governments—one Turkish and one Greek. In addition to interviewing government and military officials about how an equitable settlement may be reached, Prappas plans to spend time in both representative Greek and Turkish Cypriot villages, to see “how they compare on a human scale and how whatever settlement is reached may affect them.” Prappas, an American Studies major in the Center for Special Studies, speaks Greek and plans to learn Turkish so that he will be able to talk to knowledgeable people in London, Brussels (NATO headquarters), Athens, and Ankara, Turkey. He said that the Cypriot situation is a “current topic” and pointed out that since the downfall of Iran, Cyprus has taken on increasing significance as a strategic military base. Also, both Greece and Turkey have a vested interest in the outcome because both are members of NATO.

A third proposal comes from Robinson, who plans to study therapeutic and rehabilitative programs for children with neurological problems at the Max Planck Institute in Munich. She believes “there is a vast amount about such problems which is unknown and many areas where little work has been done.” Robinson is interested in a concept that she said is not given much attention in the United States today—that the complex processes of the mind may be based more in biological structure than in psychology. If such a hypothesis should prove true, it would help greatly in the treatment of diseases such as autism and hyperkinesis which are frequently thought to be psychologically based, Robinson said. The Planck Institute is one of the leading centers for psychiatric research.Research in the world. In addition to spending time there, Robinson, who is currently studying neurophysiology in the Center for Special Studies, hopes to visit other research centers in England, Switzerland, France, and Italy. She eventually hopes to use her biological research to help children with specific problems. Jackson, a psychology major, hopes to visit England, Ireland, and Norway to examine their legal aid systems for the poor. Jackson described the different governmental programs offered. “In England, private individuals and firms are paid by the government to provide free legal counsel. In Ireland, the government hires lawyers who work full-time with legal aid services and have no private practice. And Norway uses a combination of both systems.” Jackson hopes to divide his time equally between the three countries, studying the different options open to governments, and then determining which plan or combination of plans would work best in the United States. He plans to go into legal aid and public defense work in this country, and said, “the insights gained from this year would be invaluable to me.”

The next step on the path to winning the Watson Fellowships is an interview with representatives of the Watson Foundation. The four nominees from Davidson will compete with 172 others from 47 private colleges. Chairman of the Graduate Fellowships Committee and Dean of Students Will Terry commented on this year's nominees, saying, “We're very pleased and believe their projects and personalities will make them strong competitors nationally.” All four have said they are “happy” and “excited” about their chances. In the words of Prappas, “I feel good, but it's crazy to think you're going to win.”

Sign up in Dean of Students' office

ODK gives seniors chance to practice interviews

By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

For many students, the thought of an interview is terrifying. The Omicron Delta Kappa Circle of Davidson, which recognizes leaders in various sectors of campus life, has planned an interviewing program as a free service to students. One reason for planning the project is to make ODK a more active group on campus. The most important reason though, said Andy Miller, President of Davidson’s ODK Circle, is to give students who aren't involved in the pre-med and pre-law programs experience in an interview situation.

ODK is setting up the mechanics of the interviews. Each person who signs up will have two interviews during the three weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. Each interviewing committee will have a faculty member, a student who is a member of ODK, and a townsperson or staff person of the college. The interviews will last twenty minutes with a ten-minute evaluation at the end. Present at each interview will be a qualified evaluator such as Ken Wood and N.C. Fellows who are trained in observing and giving feedback. An evaluation sheet will be given to the student. Hopefully, the tips the student receives in his first interview will improve the student's performance in the second interview.

Only seniors will be able to participate in this trial program. If it is successful, the ODK will repeat the program in the spring for juniors and sophomores. Interested students should sign up before the end of the fall term. The only prerequisite is that each student fill out a resume listing his experiences and giving the committees ideas on the type of interview to set up so that it will be a practical one. Resumes will be due the Tuesday after Thanksgiving. Interviews will be held two nights a week at the Honors Center, and each student will be notified of his times. Miller hopes for a lot of interest in the program so that the program can become a practical service for all students.