Ski bums, prepare your gear for the season.
By JOHAN KINCK
Staff Correspondent

Ski season is finally within sight. The weather is definitely fall, and there has been some snow in the mountains.
This is the time to start bringing out your equipment. Your gear should be inspected long before the season so
that necessary repairs and adjustments can be made. How much you need to do all depends on how you left
your skis last spring and how they have been stored.

When you now pull out your eight-months neglected equipment, there are several things that should be done before you head
for the slopes. The bottom of your skis is a petroleum-based product that will oxidize slowly if they are not
covered with wax. If your skis have not been waxed since the last trip, they will need flat filing and
burning. Also, a coat of wax will not only help you ski faster, but it also protects the ski and
reduces wear.

Unless you feel terrific about your binding, there is no reason to even think about skiing. Your bindings are, health-wise,
the single most important part of your equipment. They cannot be checked often enough. By checking, I mean seeing if
they work. The single variable most related to bindings opening at a safe load is, according to Dr. Larry Young,
whether the mechanism has been opened recently. Tommy Corcoran, an ex-Olympic skier, when asked, said to have your bindings checked
and set by a professional at least once a year and then pop them open once in a while to
make sure they work right.

There is not much to say about boots except to keep them dry and don’t walk too much in them.
This will wear down the sole and result in a poor fit against the binding. There are soles on the
market this year that can be strapped on your boots to walk on, but I do not know how well
they work.

I'd also like to say something about poles. Not many people know how to wear them or use them for
that matter. Poles with straps should be worn the way cross-country skiers wear them. Your hand should be put up
through the loop and then grip around the handles and the top part of the strap. This grip gives excellent
control and flexibility. Poles should always have the points down, even if you are in control, somebody else might not
be.

These things should not be forgotten as we happily head for the crowded slopes because they will enable you to
completely enjoy yourself.

North Carolina Slopes

Appalachian Ski Mountain is located between Boone and Blowing Rock. The runs are short, the drop is 336 feet, but
it is a good place for beginners and intermediate skiers. Beech Mountain in Banner Elk has good slopes for all
levels of skiing. The drop is 809 feet. It has a tendency to be crowded on weekends. Cataloochee at Waynesville
west of Asheville has slopes that are fair. With more snowing equipment, it would be a good place. The drop
is 740 feet.Devils on 105 South of Boone has good slopes, especially for intermediate skiers, and a drop of 607
feet. The weekend crowd is much smaller than on Beech or Sugar. Sugar Mountain on 184 before Banner Elk has
nice, long runs. It’s a good place for beginners and intermediate skiers with a 1200-foot drop. There are, however, long
lift lines on weekends. Wolf Laurel, near Mars Hill, is 25 miles north of Asheville. The beginner runs are short,
but otherwise, it’s a good hill. It is inexpensive and not crowded. The drop is 700 feet.

WDAV's professional staff, Ed McIntyre, Gina Scruggs, and McCune, prepare for the Top 40 Countdown and fundraising (Michee! Kehs).

Recycling efforts continue
By JEAN SORACCO
Features Editor

Not enough people are aware of the recycling programs on campus or of some of the reasons for recycling. Boxes
on the halls and/or in the Y shed behind Little. Magazines, newspapers, and other paper are all recyclable. Glass can
be deposited by color behind Jackson Cleaners. During the week, Beech Mountain is probably the best bet for all-round skiers.
For a weekend, I would choose Seven Devils or Wolf Laurel depending on snow conditions.

Each person throws away an average of 5 lbs. of recyclable material each day per year. 50 billion cans, 27
billion bottles, and 30 million tons of paper are thrown away every day. Yet one ton of recycled paper saves
17 trees. The glass should be clean and the neck rings removed. Aluminum cans can be deposited in bins behind
Jackson Cleaners. Before depositing, however, please rinse and flatten the cans. It takes tin 100 years to decompose, aluminum 400
years, and glass has been found still intact that is 4000 years old. Yet each of these materials can be
recycled instead of just putting it in the trash can. Five billion dollars are spent each year to collect trash.
On campus, there are places to take one’s recyclable materials. Paper can be put in either the boxes on the
halls or in the Y shed behind Little. The money collected from the paper goes to the Y Service Corps
to pay for building and winterizing projects for low-income families.

What Do You Want From College?

You’re career-oriented. You're interested in management. You’re an individual seeking experience in problem analysis, requiring decision-making results. You want management
training and leadership experience. Experience that will be an asset in a management career.

The KA’s and 4th Richardson are working with the town in crushing cans.

If you’re this individual, you can get all of this and more experience through the ARMY ROTC.

For More Information Contact:

Gill Holland's Autograph party in honor of “Pocahontas and the Drunken” 10 am Wed Dec 5th at G.
