Checking up on the Coalition
Bill Peeples

In the September 28 issue of The Davidsonian, Elliott Hipp stated, on behalf of the Coalition for Better Education, that
“one is justified in questioning whether the scale of Davidson’s involvement in football can be defended in light of other
financial needs which are vital to educational quality.” As acknowledged by Coach Ed Farrell and numerous members of the football
team, the goals of the Coalition are no great misfortune to the football program as a whole. However, the group’s
inaccuracies and false accusations, as evidenced by last week’s article, are disturbing. These inaccuracies in reporting must be corrected.

Mr. Hipp’s claim that recruiting expenses for the football program mounted to $40,000 last year is not true. Recruiting expenditures
were $25,000, or $15,000 less than claimed (Update, April 1979). The Coalition quotes Southwestern University’s ex-athletic director as placing the
school’s entire football budget at $24,500. How could such a small budget be possible when Southwestern spent over $6,000 on
its trip for the September 15 game against Davidson? A partial explanation is that Southwestern’s coaching staff is paid not
by the athletic program, but by the admissions office of the Memphis school.

In answer to one of Mr. Hipp’s questions, the admissions department at Davidson spends nothing on football recruiting. Instead, the
football staff often interviews and recruits prospective students who have no interest in playing football at Davidson. The Coalition claims
that football recruits are brought to Davidson for non-academic reasons. No matter what the reasons for coming to Davidson, each
football prospect must meet the stringent criteria established by the admissions office, same as a non-athlete.

A notable insinuation made here by the Coalition is that football players’ contribution to Davidson is on Richardson Field. Evidence
to refute this assumption would fill volumes. For example, one recent Wildcat captain is currently in law school, another in
medical school. A key starter for the Davidson offense has already been accepted for next year’s med school class. The
list could go on and on.

How does a small liberal arts college justify competing in football against Division I-AA schools much larger than Davidson, the
group wants to know? With a 3-1 opening record and top ten status, the Wildcat grid-iron can not only compete
but excel.

The Coalition opposes fielding a large team that generates large travel expenses for away games. Note that only two-thirds of
the team attends road games. Also, team size has been reduced according to Division I-AA regulations, so fewer players than
ever are allowed to travel.

Discrimination is practiced in the awarding of financial aid to football players, the group charges. However, football scholarships, all based
on financial need, come from the Wildcat Club. The Wildcat Club receives these funds from alumni and other contributors who
earmark their gifts for athletic assistance, primarily football scholarships. Therefore, these funds cannot be rerouted to the academic sector. Also,
the Wildcat Club scholarships remove a monetary burden from the regular program for financial aid provided by the admissions office,
since those who qualify for Wildcat Club scholarships would otherwise be available to non-athletes.

The Coalition charges that football players are accorded special privileges, among them unlimited food from the college dining service. This
statement implies year-round service, while in reality these meals are for pre-season practice only, long before dining houses begin serving.
Another alleged privilege is the subsidization of the Pop Films program. Each Friday night before a home game, the football
team gathers for a movie in Perkins Auditorium. The purpose of this group showing is twofold: steer team members away
from Friday night revelries that would affect their play the next day; assemble as a team to boost morale. Understandably,
mandatory attendance is a sufferance for many team members, not a special privilege.

From the economic standpoint, there is no subsidization of Pop Films. Until recently, the football team viewed outdated “B” movies
with a maximum budget of $250 per film. By sharing the cost of fall showings, the Pop Films program and
the football program are able to present films of both higher quality and reduced price to both groups. This practice
is not a subsidy and is beneficial to both the team and the student body at large.

The Coalition for Better Education raises many worthwhile questions about budget priorities, but why does it single out football as
its whipping boy while there are other potential inconsistencies in the college’s spending? The Coalition’s ends may be noble and
necessary, but its means are questionable when unethical half-truths serve as its momentum. In short, this group should clean up
its act.

Last week's lithograph was by senior Art major Penny Keels.

Keep PIRG at Davidson
Susan Marynowski

PIRG was founded in 1969, based on the ideals of Ralph Nader; it is present in 25 states today. The
Davidson chapter was founded in...1973 and is one of the oldest chapters in North Carolina. To view problems and seek
solutions on a broad level is one important function of PIRG's state-wide structure. A campus chapter cannot exist without being
a part of the state-wide organization; six campuses working together have a much greater impact than six separate campuses. Students
active in PIRG address problems that affect the whole state, and to this end, employ four full-time staff members to
coordinate activities between campuses, to attend meetings and hearings that students are unable to attend, and to coordinate NC PIRG
with Student Action.

Rick Johnson: “If a student doesn’t go to advanced ROTC, the basic course I think may well be of advantage
to him,” said Spencer, “first of all in giving him some first-hand knowledge about the military in a world where
military power is a reality.” “As far as it (ROTC) being compulsory for the first two years,” he continued, “if
this is necessary to preserve that option (to take advanced ROTC), then I think it’s worth the price.”

Just ten years ago these quotes appeared on the front page of The Davidsonian on April 4, 1969. The headline
read, “President Defends Compulsory ROTC.” But about one month later, because of continued student protest, the faculty and trustees voted
to drop the two years of ROTC training as a requirement for graduation. Many alumni returning to Davidson this weekend
were students at that time, and are proud that because of their hard work to change the policy, students are
no longer required to take ROTC.

In the late sixties, Davidson College had mandatory chapel attendance, a curfew on weekends, and area exams in addition to
area courses. Thanks to students who felt these rules were unjust, they are no longer a burden to us today.
Changes such as coeducation, self-scheduled exams, and liberal dormitory regulations did not just evolve. These improvements are part of the
College because students fought to have them incorporated into college policy.

I think our predecessors might be disappointed in our peers of the past few years. We lost an outstanding Political
Science professor (Dr. William Linden) because he was Jewish. He obviously didn't have a “Christian commitment” that the administration required
of all professors. Last year the campus radio station was taken away from the students while most of us sat
back and watched. The administration said they could make more money if the station was out of student control. Should
we permit the administration to take away student-run organizations without protest?

This year one of Davidson's finest professors is denied tenure, and no reason is being given. We sit in Dr.
Koller’s classes every day and become well acquainted with him and his teaching ability, yet those who decided against his
tenure hardly know him at all. We have lost Dr. Linden and our radio station, and we will lose Dr.
Koller if nothing is done to help him. The students of Davidson College are its most important asset. Since our
tuition money pays the salaries of the administration and faculty, and we are the ones most affected by their decisions,
we deserve an active role in the decision-making process.

Rick Johnson is a senior who was JYA last year.

The staff is hired by the State Board of Directors which is composed of student representatives from each of the
member campuses. The staff's experience and expertise aid students in presenting press releases, preparing testimony for hearings, drafting legislation, lobbying,
and editing and finalizing publications. The staff provides continuity in PIRG over breaks, between school years, and when active students
graduate, ensuring that projects do not suffer or become abandoned when exams or vacations come along.

To be a part of this state-wide structure, each chapter must contribute to the unavoidable costs involved. To accomplish this,
students at member schools choose to pay a nominal fee of four dollars per year, with the understanding that those
not wishing to pay can opt out. If a majority of students agree to this system, the rights of the
opposing minority are protected. Students find that this system is often more democratic than funding for organizations through mandatory student
activity fees. The money from each of the campuses is then pooled at the state level where it is under
the control of the State Board of Directors. The money goes toward support of the local chapters, staff salaries, office
expenses, and costs of publications, all controlled and voted upon by the students on the Board of Directors.

The state-wide structure and staff are the most valuable aspects of NC PIRG. These strong points allow PIRG to be
successful where other student groups fail. PIRG works toward the education of the public and constructive social change, attempting to
address underlying conditions at the root of many of society's ills. In PIRG’s ongoing research and advocacy work, there is
not time for complacency.

Do you want to be a part of NCPIRG?
