ynias — October 26, 1979

THE BRICK BROTHERS

Hi folks! So you thought flickerball at Davidson was important. Well, it is. But after sitting through Louis Ortmayer’s (known as the epitome of sartorial splendor among upper echelon circles) sometimes stimulating, sometimes provocative, sometimes relevant, but usually not, lectures, the B&BB contingent felt inspired to report on World IMAC.

World IMAC, for those of you who are uninformed, involves the ranking of worldly powers on the basis of past performance, military-athletic prowess, and basic “blow your face off” power. In case of war, these rankings could affect your life, so pay attention.

#1—UNITED STATES: An excellent road team which actually prefers not playing at home. In fact, they haven't played a home game since the intrasquad scrimmage of the 1860s. The US is very tough in the air but did struggle to gain defeat with honor against upset-minded North Vietnam. Still, the US must be ranked #1 in any poll. Teddy for tailback in 1980! (even though his brother had a losing record.)

#2—RUSSIA: This bunch of comrades have shown marked improvement in the last century. In both of the World All-Star bowls (WASB I & II), Russia has shown an effective rubber band defense combined with authoritarian coaching. However, the Soviets’ greatest asset is their ability to “put it in the freeze.” A tactic developed by Coach V.I. Dean Smithovich Lenin in the '20s. Neither Napoleon nor the Germans could score on them at home.

#3—CHINA: This club has awesome depth and can build railroads with the best of them. These guys, under the leadership of Vince Lom-tung, held closed practice sessions for nearly 30 years and are now ready for recognition. Still, a penalty for too many men on the field thwarted them in the recent Vietnam game.

#4—GERMANY: This club was victimized by poor coaching in WASB II but have come back strong by dividing their squad and concentrating on the platoon system. However, they still suffer from weak offensive and defensive coordination.

#5—JAPAN: This team has rallied from recent defeats to build a formidable squad. However, their cramped playing facilities make them especially vulnerable to the long bomb. As you recall, they were burned by this weakness in WASB II. Nonetheless, the offense is sound and scores at will by flooding one side with transistors and cameras while springing a Toyota around the other.

Teams to watch:

ISRAEL & EGYPT: Because they practice and scrimmage so frequently, these two clubs have become the KA’s of World IMAC. Watch both closely—they could be involved in a very med in the future.

GREAT BRITAIN: This team had a superior air defense in WASB II but has been fading because of front office problems. Also, a female coach could prove debilitating and quite possibly peripatetic.

INDIA: With great depth, they're a potential factor, but a poor training table slows many of her younger players.

DARKHORSE: Zimbabwe.

World IMAC tidbits:
- Cuba carries on despite a threatened suspension by the US for being a Russian farm club.
- Taiwan recently lost its franchise but has protested to the commissioner’s office.
- Uganda’s home field is nearly unplayable, attributed to cannibalism.
- SF cide maintains its enthusiasm but has been ostracized for lack of knowledge.
- Iceland’s tough but its players have to go both ways.

Having put IMAC in its proper perspective, let’s look at this week’s games. This week marked the end of the regular season and divisional championships were on the line.

In the best division, Hurtin’ 4 Gertin’ beat the KA’s 32-25. It was a tight battle all the way, decided only by a Parker TD reception with time remaining. Dave Welchman sparkled on defense, while Mike “Franchise” Shaeffer dealt for the brothers of Lee.

In another big game, the overrated E-baggers nipped the Wild Ones 32-25. J.R.’s razzle-dazzle was the difference and Joby only lined up wrong eight times. Patrick “The Hammer” Jenevein stuck out as he struck three guys, decapitating two.

Finally, in the UNICEF division, Born to Run outlasted the Old Codgers 29-26. Corty Cooper led the victors, but there may be a team rebellion on the horizon. If they do...Stick together, they'll get drilled in the playoffs. In other top 10 action, Diggs and Chip want to be mentioned for the hips. Mike and Jim want their girl’s team mentioned, too. We also thought our two freshmen ranked teams deserved some names mentioned. So Mark, Mike, Phil, John, Pete, and Allen, this ephemeral recognition has been granted to you. Good riddance. Now you can transfer.

Top Ten:
1. SAE (9-0)
2. Hurtin’ 4 Certin’ (8-0)
3. Wild Ones (8-1)
4. KA #1 (7-1)
5. Born to Easy Schedule (35-0)
6. Old Men (7-1)
7. Caribou Lips (6-2)
8. East Men (6-2)
9. Longitudinal Forces (7-2)
10. Warks (5-3)

Don’t forget; any gals wishing to join the B&BB* Bang Club, drop a line to Box 6, Davidson, NC. Please join. Please. Later.

Even though the Lake Campus may not be in the best of shape, many Davidson people like Kevin Taylor make full use of it. (Brad Kerr)

Lake Campus survives despite chronic money problems
By BERT MOBLEY
Sports Editor

“It’s essentially as it was in 1963 when it was built,” said Sterling Martin about Davidson’s Lake Campus. “It’s often a frustration for those of us in charge of it: We can see its potential but not reach it,” he said, “because of financial reasons.” Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill concurred by saying, “An appreciable amount of funds have not been spent on the facility, but still it’s a vital part of recreational activity at Davidson.”

Regardless of the “patchwork maintenance” done at the lake, the physical education department is doing what it can to assure standard upkeep. One of the major undertakings before this term was the renovation of the sailboat fleet. According to Martin, the sailboats were new a couple of years ago, but the company has since gone out of business and replacing parts is a problem. Six of Davidson's scorpions needed new rudder assemblies, but parts were difficult to obtain, and the athletic department had to change brands to do the necessary repair work. Now six of Davidson’s seven boats have been re-ruddered and are being used for the sailing classes. Funding for this work came from an insurance adjustment, according to Martin.

“The major problem,” Martin said, “is the fact we have no good storage space. We need a large shed-type building to keep the boats in when they’re not being used, but that is a low priority item. To build sheds along with some dock reconstruction would take about three years at a cost of $26 to $27 thousand,” Martin estimated.

The Lake Campus has other problems, too, besides just keeping equipment from the ravages of time and nature. People don’t treat the campus so well, either. A number of boats, etc. have been damaged by careless students, and the money for repair work is often not available; therefore, caring students are denied the opportunity to use the lake to its full advantage. Another obstacle to the Lake Campus is theft. Over the summer numerous canoes were stolen from the campus. Other smaller items continually disappear from the site, and the cost of replacements adds up.

According to the budget released last week, only $12,298 were spent on the entire physical education program last year, which includes the Lake Campus. This is not enough funding to “protect the investment,” according to Martin. Some organizations, like the Ski Club, are working with as much independent funding as possible to add to the “investment.” The Ski Club recently installed a portable course and is now capable of hosting ski events.

The Lake Campus is an asset to the College, but we're not capitalizing on the area or what it can offer. We may lose it if we don’t go ahead and do something about it. But we're working as hard as we can to add to it and protect the investment. Student interest is a vital aspect of the Lake Campus, though, to assure the administration the investment is worthwhile,” he said.

ACTIVISTS WANTED
Committed to social change? Socially minded individual concerned about social and economic justice is needed. Work for grassroots citizens’ organizations, canvassing, petitioning, and fundraising. Paid position. Call for appointment: CAROLINA ACTION 332-2541.