THE DAVIDSONIAN
“Magna vis veritatis”
Volume LXIX, Number 2
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Student radio draws Spencer's qualified support
By JOHN BOSWELL
Staff Correspondent

Three students are trying to generate support for a proposed campus radio station that would be run totally by students. Seniors Janet Coleman, David Sappenfield, and Candy Hawks met Wednesday with college President Samuel Spencer to discuss the possibility of a campus station.

After the meeting, Coleman said the President was agreeable to the idea if enough students were interested in a campus station. “He gives us his blessing,” she said. Coleman also said Spencer wanted a recommendation from Dean of Students Will Terry stating that there is adequate student support for a station before money is allocated.

Coleman said she would put out an announcement asking for students interested in helping the station to sign up in support of it. She hopes as many as fifty people will eventually work for the station.

In an Open-End meeting Tuesday morning, Spencer said that the Trustees of the College have never been opposed to a campus station. “If deemed advisable,” he said, “the administration is authorized to set up a college station.” Spencer also said the station would be a student activity, staffed and operated by students alone.

Spencer believes the station could be started for a relatively small cost. “The last surveyors said it will only cost several thousand dollars,” he said. At present, it is not known from where funds for such a station would come.

Coleman said the station would be on a carrier current, and thus could be received via electrical outlets on campus only. With such a small station, she said, a station license or operators’ licenses from the Federal Communications Commission would not be necessary.

Spencer noted that the new station may have problems finding room to operate. But Coleman says she believes there is a room in the basement of Belk dormitory that could be used as a studio. This has not been confirmed with anyone, she said.

Coleman, Sappenfield, and Hawks want to make the station a “true student activity,” Coleman said. She said they wanted a station run completely by students. She also said that WDAV, the radio station presently licensed to the College Trustees, does not provide the freedom she would like at a campus station. Working at WDAV is “more of a job than a fun thing to do,” she said.

Coleman also said that she and Sappenfield were not trying to necessarily be in charge of the campus station proposal. She said they felt it was something they wanted to start. “We're just doing it to get it done,” she said. She also said they will probably wait until the station is organized to decide on the content of programming.

Dean Terry proposes minimum Honor Code violation sentence
By KEVIN WHEELOCK
Staff Correspondent

All future Honor Code violators will receive a minimum one-year suspension from school if a proposal by Dean of Students Will Terry passes. Terry made the proposal last Sunday at the Judicial Retreat, which included Honor Council members, Review Board members, the student defense advisor, and the student solicitor.

Violators’ suspensions would begin immediately after conviction and would have to be served over consecutive terms, Terry said. Freshmen would be exempt from the new policy. The Student Conduct Council (SCC) must approve the proposal in order for it to go into effect. A decision is expected within a week.

Terry gave two reasons for submitting his proposal. First, he wants to eliminate any...tight budget, Aida Doss is enthusiastic about the continuation of Hobart’s Park. capriciousness in determining punishments for Honor Code violators. Second, he wants to establish a uniform, minimum sanction for all violators: Presently, sanctions range from censure to indefinite suspensions, depending on the circumstances of the individual case. Terry admitted that there is a chance his proposal might make students reluctant to report (See Terry, page 2) Cat than the Wildcats. Tracy and Amy Biedenbach seem more fascinated with the Lady Review Board prepares explanation of action

By MARK BARRETT
News Editor

The Review Board is now drafting a public letter explaining its postponement of a prominent student athlete’s suspension from school for an Honor Code violation, according to chemistry professor Merlyn Schuh, Chairman of the Review Board. Schuh said the letter should be released sometime next week. It comes after a one-hour and twenty-five minute meeting Wednesday between the Board and the Executive Committee of the Faculty to discuss the Board's decision. On approval, the Board had changed the athlete’s suspension from fall term, his athletic season, to winter term. The athlete pleaded guilty to an Honor Code violation last spring, and Dean of Students (See Review Board, page 2)

Hobart’s Park feels pinch and support in 2nd year

By ELIZABETH KISS
Staff Correspondent

Hobart’s Park, fledgling student magazine, now entering its second year, is starting off this fall with a goal: to become a firmly established publication. The goal, said Editor-in-Chief Aida Doss, is attainable. But there are roadblocks. One such roadblock is funding. Hobart’s Park requested $5,000 from the Activities Tax Council this year, and received only $2,200. “Which means,” said Doss, “that we'll be operating on an extremely tight budget.” It may also mean that only two issues will be published this year, instead of three as originally planned. Submissions are already being accepted for the first issue, scheduled for distribution to students at the beginning of the winter term. The deadline for submissions is November 1.

Last year, Hobart’s Park appeared only once. “It was rough getting started,” explained Doss. “There were organizational problems, and the printing was not up to par.” Student response, however, was enthusiastic, and the quality of submissions excellent, said Doss. Now, with a new printer and a more experienced staff, Doss is optimistic about the magazine's prospects. Hobart’s Park was created to provide an opportunity for students to publish all types of creative work. It prints poetry and short fiction, political and scientific essays, travel notes, artwork and photography. In addition to Doss, the staff consists of section editors who have final authority in their areas of specialization. Editors are Nancy McNair, poetry and fiction; Whit Yelverton, photography; Gia Partain, art; Andy Miller and Ann Tutweiler, essays; and production manager, Marshall Waddell. Doss would like all these areas well represented in the magazine. “Some satire would be great,” she added.

Doss feels that Hobart’s Park’s mission is to provide an outlet for student writing. She noted that in the past, The Davidson Miscellany, the campus’ only other literary magazine, has rarely printed students’ work. “We're hoping for a lot of support, a lot of submissions,” said Doss. “This magazine is what the students make of it.” This could be a big literary year for Davidson, according to Doss. William Styron, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of Sophie's Choice and a one-time Davidson student, will be visiting in October. The annual Vereen Bell creative writing contest will be held in the spring, with the winning entries appearing in Hobart’s Park.