ve ‘screen return as a new form of art

remotely entertaining. After all, film historians said for years, the American studio system used to push movies through assembly lines
the way Detroit cranks out cars, with no innovation, no room for individual creative input.

But the historians have changed their views (with the rise of television, even Hollywood didn’t look so bad), and the
Visualite theatre in Charlotte is right with them, offering a major retrospective of American films from the 30s to the
50s.

True, these films were mass-produced, but that never stopped directors like Hitchcock, Wilder, or Capra from adding some new twists.
Just pick up The Charlotte Observer’s movie section and try to find a new movie with the rapid-fire wit of
The Big Sleep with Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall, or the fiery rebelliousness of James Dean in Rebel Without a
Cause.

The Hooray for Hollywood series runs at the Visualite through the end of April. Virtually every film is a must;
but, knowing the Davidson student’s busy schedule, most of us will only be able to make one or two. Here
are some hints:

North by Northwest and Notorious on March 29-31, are two of Hitchcock’s best, full of spies, Nazis, intrigue and, incidentally,
Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman, and James Mason. Hitchcock's films are a marvel of precision, without a wasted minute in the
bunch.

James Cagney stars in Public Enemy (April 1-4) as a two-bit gangster fighting his way to the top. Anyone who
thinks John Travolta has class never saw Cagney smash that grapefruit into Mae Clark’s face.

Frankenstein and Dracula, both made in 1931, are on April 5-7. Boris Karloff and Bela Lugosi brought a touch of
depth to horror movies that disappeared years ago in favor of shock and gore. The creativity and atmosphere of these
films have stood up for almost fifty years without a dent.

April 8-11 brings a special Western double-feature of Stagecoach and The Treasure of the Sierra Madre. The former is considered
to be the greatest western of all, practically worshipped by European filmmakers. The latter features the inimitable Bogey in one
of his greatest and most uncharacteristic roles, as the sleazy Fred C. Dobbs. Guaranteed to entertain.

April 19-21 brings All About Eve, with Bette Davis, Anne Baxter, and Marilyn Monroe, and Sunset Boulevard, with Gloria Swanson,
William Holden, Erich von Stroheim, and Buster Keaton. Both films are heavily psychological and contain some spectacular performances.

James Dean made only three films, and two of them are on April 26-28. Rebel Without a Cause is the
famous monument to the struggle of the adolescent in an increasingly ambiguous role, and East of Eden was based on
the Steinbeck novel about romance and jealousy in a small town.

Acting just wasn’t the same after Dean and Brando.

Other titles can be found by calling the Visualite at 332-3471. They just don’t make ‘em like this anymore.

---

Hard boiled and soft headed

By ANN GARNER
Features Editor

These are sober times. Davidson students are consumed by worry. They are more serious. Doesn’t anyone ever wonder what happened
to the era of the crazy college kid?

In late November 1972, Davidson freshman Gerald Plotz ate 51 hard-boiled eggs in two hours to crack Paul Newman’s film
record of 50 eggs in Cool Hand Luke.

“A group of us were sitting around the room one night talking about the movie,” said Plotz. “Being a fool
by occupation, I said that it wouldn’t be too hard to beat that. A football player challenged me.”

“Once I was challenged, I had to go through with it,” continued Plotz. “I don't usually do that sort of
thing.”

Yet before his egg-eating feat, Plotz consumed 50 meatballs at one sitting when Rusk House had an all-you-can-eat plan as
part of the College dining service. “I had some wonderful times there,” said Plotz.

Before a large audience in the College Union, Plotz downed 15 eggs in 11 minutes taking time to salt and
pepper each one. After then, he began to slow down to a more “normal” pace. “Things got rough when I
hit 30," said Plotz.

With time running out, Plotz “crammed in two eggs whole.”

Though he received credit for eating them, Plotz described them as having “shot back up like cannonballs.” Afterwards, he played
a little soccer and polished off a pint of chocolate ice cream before bed. “The yolks coat your esophagus so
you have to eat something else afterwards to take the uncomfortable feeling away,” he explained.

Plotz didn’t stay around Davidson long after his exhibition of gastronomic fortitude. He transferred to the University of Honolulu. He
now teaches 7th and 8th grade Language Arts and Speech.

“I'm still a great fancier of buffets,” confessed Plotz. “I do my best to drive up the food cost. There
you can get all you want for six to seven dollars.”

---

Visit THE VILLAGE STORE for Fine Gifts, Stationery, and Springbok Jigsaw Puzzles.

“We’ll help you discover Belk”

211 N. MAIN STREET, MOORESVILLE, N.C., 664-2593

---

Usually $150-$155, save over 60%! Men’s vested suits

Woven texturized polyester expertly tailored with center vent, flap pockets. Gentlemen's flare trousers with belt loops. Handsome collection of Spring
solids, subtle plaids.

Usually $15, you save $6.12! ‘Arrow’ shirts for men

Our own spring ties; sale $3.88
