Rhee CPD CHERNSRT Torey aay ee a Bun Walters and Eugene Heath in a scene from Teeth, 1200 wdorra. (Brad Kerr)

International connections in center
By BOB GOULD
Staff Writer

Ever have a case of Potomac Fever? It is a rare political disease peculiar to Washington bureaucrats and diplomats. It is particularly common among U.S. Foreign Service men who have spent years away from their homeland. Talk to Richard Naas sometime; he’ll tell you all about Potomac Fever.

Mr. Naas has served abroad in the Foreign Service for 24 distinguished years. He is the Diplomat-In-Residence here at Davidson for the 1979-80 academic year. So what is a man like Charles Naas, who has traveled the world over (Pakistan, Calcutta, India, Turkey, Iran) doing in a small town like Davidson, N.C.? Apparently, he is curing his Potomac Fever.

“I am renewing my connection with America...too often diplomats lose contact with their homeland and forget just what makes it tick.” Mr. Naas is catching up on a lot of reading in hopes of rediscovering America. Charles Naas is one of nine Diplomats-In-Residence on this year's U.S. campuses who offer their expertise and experience to college students. You can thank Vice President Zimmerman for getting him here.

Mr. Naas is giving lectures in Dr. Thomas’ history course this term and will be teaching his own seminar in Foreign Policy winter term. Besides working and studying at Davidson, he will also be lecturing to other local schools and special interest groups.

Mr. Naas was most recently Deputy Chief of Mission and Charge d’Affaires at the American Embassy in Tehran, Iran. He was present when Iranian revolutionary gunmen seized the American Embassy last February. Mr. Naas remembers the intense drama. “Fortunately they (the gunmen) never intended to kill us.”

So go and meet this man; take advantage of this opportunity to talk with him. His office is on the second floor in the Center for Special Studies. Tell Charles Naas what is on your mind and help him cool down his Potomac Fever.

Iran, 4

Ross
(Continued from page 6)

His African involvements have in turn generated a strong interest in France; he is currently arranging to have a course on the economics of France offered soon, feeling that this would contribute to our already strong interdisciplinary program with France.

Dailey
(Continued from page 6)

and interests are travel, music, cooking, and gardening. When asked of his opinions of Davidson he commented that, in addition to enjoying the small town atmosphere, “I like the sense of community that the college seems to have. The friendly.”

Diplomat Charles Naas enjoys talking about his adventures.

Andorra opens
By JIM NORTHRUP
Staff Writer

Andorra, a drama by Max Frisch, will open Thursday night for the students of Davidson College. A premiere for this section of the country, the play has been a standard in European theatres since the early 1960s. It has not fared as well in the United States, and up until now has remained somewhat obscure except to students of German literature. This will be the first major production of the season for the Davidson College Theatre Department.

An intense drama, Andorra is concerned with bigotry and national chauvinism. It is a bit heavier and deeper than recent Theatre Department productions. It promises to be one of the most thoughtful productions ever presented on the Davidson stage. Perhaps it will also have a more serious effect on the audience, though its purpose is not to preach. It is a modern play which takes place in a fictional country called Andorra and deals with a young man’s search for his identity, as well as his relationship to the people around him.

Directed by Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., Chairman of the Theatre Department, and designed by Joseph T. Gardner, Assistant Professor in Theatre, the play promises to be a powerful one. “With the upsurge of blatant intolerance in our country, the openness with which certain organized groups promote their prejudices, the current campaign against people who follow lifestyles different from the majority’s and specifically the recent vandalism of a synagogue in Charlotte, we felt it was time to do this play,” Barber said.a recent interview. “Although the play is specifically about anti-semitism, I believe it is about all intolerance—blacks, Jews, gays, what-have-you. This is an ‘it-could-happen-here’ play. It is a hard-hitting drama, a needler of conscience, and a pitiless seeker after the truth.”

The Theatre Department has been working since mid-September and has involved the local community. The play will be performed on Thursday at 7:30 pm and Friday and Saturday at 8:00 pm in Hodson Hall this week and next. Tickets are on sale at the Cunningham box office for $1.50.

1979 national championship sparks interest in intramural College Bowl

By TIM NEWCOMB
Staff Correspondent

On June 6, Davidson’s College Bowl team defeated Harvard University 405-110 to win the 1979 national championship. This victory climaxed a long road for the team. The reward was a trip to England to face a British championship team, resulting in a narrow loss to Sidney Sussex College and a great experience for all of us.

The 1979-80 College Bowl season began at Davidson on an intramural level on October 1. From this intramural tournament, an intercollegiate team will be chosen, and will set out to defend Davidson’s national championship. College Bowl is a quiz game jointly sponsored by the Reader’s Digest and by the Association of College Unions International. Its content is not strictly intellectual, nor is it a question of knowing meaningless trivia—the key to the game is the ability to instantly recall specific facts. That ability was shared by Tom Ruby and James Gilbert, both ‘79, and Ed Trumbull and Tim Newcomb, ‘81.

College Bowl at Davidson has been very fortunate to have strong support from the College Union. Last year William Brown and this year Lyman Collins have been responsible for its relatively smooth operation. A College Bowl committee has been created on the Union Board, in order to receive funds through normal channels, and to give the program some continuity from year to year. This year the College Bowl committee received an initial budget of $500.00 to use for the year’s operations. Most of this money will go to the purchase of official questions from College Bowl, Inc. These questions cost $20.00 per game packet and become very expensive in a large-scale tournament. Other programs which College Bowl has produced this year have been a presentation at Homecoming Weekend, and exhibition matches at Parents’ Weekend.

Davidson’s present intramural tournament began October 1 and is still in its early stages. There are four leagues of six teams each, with each team playing all the other teams in its league once. The winner of each league will then enter a playoff tournament to determine the intramural champion. After Christmas, tryouts for the varsity team will begin. After our varsity team is picked, we hope to host an intercollegiate tournament larger than last year’s four-team tilt. Despite the loss of three members of its championship team, Davidson will be among the favorites in the regional competition once again.

Despite the fact that College Bowl is considered relatively big-time at Davidson, in the intramurals there is still a place for a lot of pure enjoyment without high pressure.

The Davidson Miscellany collects material from all over

By NANCY MCNAIR
Staff Writer

Amazing. People all over the country pour it out in sentence and phrase, write it down, lick the envelopes, and send it to The Davidson Miscellany, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. From as far away as Carmel, California and Worcester, Vermont they come for perusal, accompanied by self-addressed, stamped envelopes in case of rejection. As editors, J.S. Winkler, Sue Dehoney, and Merideth Durden savored them, sandwiched the most virtuous between two slices of paper the color of last April's sky. And why not a late blast in the midst of this Indian summer to end Indian summers?

With Robert W. Hill they empathized, buckling into the jet to overhear two traveling salesmen musing on the immutability of plastic bags. They donned Wellies to limn the outdoors with Marion Hodges’ “Some Words of a Conservationist.” They relished the “rosaries of knotted nerves,” “the soothing organization of air,” “You’re a very slender creamy lady.”

Among the chosen, they included the poems of four local writers. Two of them, Gary Hart and Tim McDowell, left impressions of “spending the...