14—The Davidsonian—March 23, 1979

War breaks out in the world of IMAC BBall

By BAD BERNARD and BONEHEAD

The ground was covered with lumps of bloody flesh. The roar of tanks could be heard in the distant background.
The groans of agony were deafened by the periodic bombings of the savage warplanes in the darkened, smoke-covered sky.

What is the cause of this suffering? Is this the Russians invading Czechoslovakia? No! Hitler invading Poland? No! Mussolini attacking
Ethiopia? No! This bloody scene is the culmination of the long, grueling struggle of the Davidson People’s Party, alias Cool
Breeze, against the bourgeoisie.

Party spokesman Billy Earl Johnson said, “The Revolution was inevitable. Once the suffering masses (me, Mickey, Brian, James, and Kevin)
joined hands there was no way for the elite capitalist pigs to stay in power.”

The Revolution began when Cool Breeze jumped up on the side of the head of Bye. Hanna said, “There was
no way that we were gonna keep runnin’ the machines and let the other dudes rake in the money.” Bye
fell from within. It was later discovered that several key players were card-bearing Communists.

In the other bracket, the SAE’s were sabotaged as several of their starting players were assassinated or placed in prison
camps and forced to miss the game with the Tuts. (Bad Bernard wrote this ridiculous statement. It should be noted
by Bonehead that Hill Stockton, standout floor general for the frosh, was missing in action several days before the battle.)
Nevertheless, many feel that those alligator-toting bastards got what they deserved.

After the coup d'état had taken place, a new group of elites came to power before the Tut monarchy had
a chance to blossom. This was the fascist government, Old Men.

The stage was now set for confrontation. Would we have a repressive government run by elites or a fair and
just government run by the people? Cool Breeze gave a quick response to this question. Outnumbered almost two to one,
the brothers of the People’s Party, Cool Breeze, opened up a can of Whipass and overthrew the tyrants. The dialectic
had now run its course, just as Karl Marx predicted in my history notebook.

In the minor leagues: The Big Daddy’s Conosco Family ruled with an iron hand. On its way to victory, it
bumped out several weaker enemies whose names could not be released to the press for reasons not in our control.

In the women’s league, the eventual winner emerged and captured the tourney.

We also need to report that several records have been broken during the first two weeks of the term in
which the sub-solar point of the sun hits the equator causing the vernal equinox.

David Vaugn, senior Phi Delt, smashed the existing Outdoor Sports Event Obnoxious Comment Record when he hurled fifteen expletives at
the Guilford team.

Rob Cordell set a new Outdoor Beer Consumption record as he tallied 152 beverages in six days, enabling him to
become a member of the Century Club, the tree club, and pee club.

Mike Sheridan, senior football captain, ran the Twelve Beer Medley in an unprecedented one hour and 46 minutes. He was
not seen after that for two days.

Kelvin Anderson, freshman son of trustee H. Perrin Anderson, set a record of running the campus obstacle course in two
and a half days. The course consisted of climbing five trees, eating a small bush, raping two dogs, and drinking
a 6-pack from at least a dozen varieties of beers. Kelvin was found dead in his smoke-filled room early Monday
morning and was buried in Dean Terry’s Office Tuesday. Friends and relatives should send cards and flowers to the Mt.
Mourne 200.

SUMMER RESEARCH GRANT

$1000 for eight weeks' study and research this summer on Small Towns and Metropolitan Expansion. Proposals invited. Interested students should
contact Dr. Avinger, Carolina Inn.

The Buttery and Beanery

Just minutes north of Davidson, we serve a wide variety of foods: unique and tasty sandwiches, savory steaks, salads, and
much more. Everything is prepared quickly and served fresh.

Try a different and delicious approach to eating today.
Open: Monday-Friday, weekends
Phone: 892-8686
