Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A science field trip with the “eh?” hand-holding. We struggled to fight off the greasers who truly not only whistle
and jeer in the streets. It is an awkward queue. The French mind says, “if there’s room for smoke, there’s
room for me.” The average Davidson student is not used to elbows in the ribs, armpits, or face. Unfortunately, we
get it all. There is no Slater line, no “you first,” no unwritten laws of consideration. Either you make sure
you physically have the edge on the guy behind you, or else he’ll end up eight people in front of
you.

Smoking is more of a habit than the daily walk to the P.O. The French love to smoke. Coffee and
a smoke, dogs and smoke, old men, benches, and smoke, twelve-year-olds and smoke. Sometimes even just smoke. It always seems
like it’s puff away, every five seconds, on a stub of burning weed. Back home it’s the young and healthy.
There seems to be a lack of medical awareness about the cancerous effects of cigarettes. The “Mr. Coffee” machines connoisseur
slowly fills his daily fix. How does one find a dealer? You have great variety among the many assorted student-populated
cafes all around town. The only catch is the seventy-five cent to a buck twenty-five price tag per cup, and
at that cost, you need a lift to get you through the day. The event is not so much in
drinking the coffee, but in sitting outside on the sidewalk patios and observing the curiosities walking by. The guys watch
girls, to see what’s around town, the girls watch each other to check out the fashions, and the couples watch
stars twinkle and dance off their lover's lips. Yes, je t'aime is the equivalent of a 900 Room.

The over-consumption of coffee does not, however, mean an active and energetic day for the French. Far from the American
ten-minute meal at McDonald’s is the French meal at noon. For two hours the entire society screeches to a dead
halt to observe the ritual of eating, course after course. Every detail you’ve ever heard about French cuisine from rich
food to bizarre a la anything, exists. Although usually the elaborate meals are found only in expensive restaurants, the easiest
delicacies to be found are the abundant onion soup, quiche, and omelettes. However deft or misguided one finds oneself in
the kitchen, he can do wonders with the fresh fruit and vegetables which are stockpiled at every corner market. On
the other hand, if you find that the burned sauerkraut didn’t turn out as you'd hoped, there’s no reason to
worry. Just serve wine instead. It becomes very clear in the first week in France that at a little less
than a dollar a bottle, wine can be used as a substitute for any meal or occasion whatsoever.

Montpellier is located seven miles from the Mediterranean, but is surrounded by billions and billions of friendly little grapes. Those
guys work all year drinking in the local rain and soaking up the beautiful sun, just so that when the
Davidson group arrives each year there’s always an abundance of sweet alcoholic wine to...greet us. How’s that for not needing
an introduction? Contrary to the fact that mid-week wine soirees are more frequent here, the workload has been quite sufficient.
The whole month of September was spent in four-hour-a-day grammar classes, which tied with four hours a night of studying,
tend to be a bit much. The two-week break in October was truly a festival even for those who didn’t
get to the Oktoberfest, yet the direction and intent of our education has a different focus. Okay, so it’s not
a Humes lecture or “God, another Eco review.” Yet, in the routine of every day, we are struggling to learn
the “foreign” language, to comprehend the French mind, and to adapt to the strange French ways. Rarely does a day
go by without learning a new word or finding a new “experience” (how we hate that word). Even building up
the courage to ask directions at a bus stop or to break the ice at dinner to meet a Frenchie
can be the most difficult and learning time of all. Entwined in all this worldliness exists the warmth of the
small and personal experiences. The post office presents a difficult challenge to the rookie in France. Not only is it
obligatory to stand through three lines to be told to return to the first (the old circle game!), but one
must also discover the different “rules” which vary depending on each line and day of the week, as well as
have six forms in triplicate filled out to the letter. All for two stamps and an aerogram! Then there are
the times when after trying to communicate in French, you revert back to a Carolina drawl and just point. English
comes in real handy for obnoxious drivers or the infamous elbow people at lunch. All it takes is a curt
“Get the outta my face, buddy!” and they’ll stop acting like frat men in line for beer.

The streets offer a genuine flair of all those European “An-tho-ny” spaghetti commercials with small alleyways, bakeries full of sweets,
flower ladies at each corner, and the gray skyless shape of cement-walled WWII buildings. If you crave carbohydrates morning, noon,
and night, then this is the place—bread is taken and consumed in mega-quantities at every meal. A “baguette” a day
keeps the munchies away.

Davidson College-In-France members are as follows:
Susan Beesley
Mary Booth
Brad Kerr
Kathy Boylston
Don Caldwell
Dan Curtis
Julia Eichelberger
Sam Giese
Sissy Hammond
Lisa Kaiser
Charity Kimmel
Betsy Kreid
Karen Leamer
Leisa Lifer
Dean Marshall
Becky Niebling
Agnes Norfleet
Carlen Pierce
Jeff Prescott
Follin Smith
Mark Thomas
Ed Trumbull
Beth Vian
Greg Zeph

Professor George Poe and his wife Sylviane are our director-coordinators in Montpellier, France. George and Sylviane are our one connection
with the sane world. We couldn’t have had nicer, more helpful, effective people for the roles of teacher/guidance, mom/dad, but
mostly as friends.

Copeland House Gallery
CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES
Art Accessories make wonderful Christmas presents!

Great Looking but Comfortable OUTERWEAR
Come see our selections of warmth-providing:
TRENCH COATS
CAR COATS
TOP COATS
WEATHER COATS
OVERCOATS
JACKETS
PARKAS
DOWN VESTS
LEATHER COATS
DOWN JACKETS
SWEATERS
BULKY SWEATERS
