-10—The Davidsonian— March 30, 1979

The Crying Princess

"Oh nooo, a knight will defend my honor in mortal combat," she cries.

Comprehension (self-titled)

1. Why will no one fight for the crying princess?

2. Why is she so ugly?

Pledge

"I think I must draft a sonnet," she says in desperation.

IMAC’s Tor
By JOHN “THE COUNT” MONTEFUSCO

Bad Bernard and Bonehead asked me to sub for them while they attend the signing of the Middle East agreement. A conflicting rumor has it that they were actually tricked into chugging beers that were laced with bong water. In any case, they’re not here and I am.

The biggest sports story on campus is the presence of Davidson’s version of Ron LeFlore—Dave Pottenger. He was bailed out of prison just in time for the Four Skins opener. Dave is yet another example that a wayward youth, if given a second chance, can become a famous mediocre softball player. However, if Dave fails to improve his .143 average, other cons may have this opportunity denied them.

During the break, spring training began for the softball season as arch enemies KA and MacFleet held their respective camps in Ft. Lauderdale, along with the FIJI’s and SAE’s, while the SPE’s held their tryouts at Daytona. Despite the teams, the club to watch this year is the San Francisco Giants. Look for me to pitch Game 3 of the World Series at Candlestick Park in October.

IMAC Czar John Ratliff has retired to write his memoirs, and has substituted the puppet ruler Mike Doran in his place. Even if you can’t see Rat’s lips move when H.D. appears to talk, don’t be fooled. H.D.’s resemblance to Charley McCarthy is no fluke. Rat still calls the shots, so call him, not H.D., if you have any complaints.

Rat’s and H.D.’s first move of the spring was to lump the best teams into one division, so they can all get experience for the playoffs. This means that MacFleet and the Four Skins will probably avoid the choke factor this time. Because of the divisional alignment, the following top ten list is more representative than the final records will be. Any of the top five or six could win it, so quit your crying if you are underrated.

(1) RETURN OF SLACK—although Vaughn is grossly overrated, this is a tough team and retains the name, if not all the players, from last year’s.

(2) The FOUR SKINS are ranked here so they'll get cocky and because Stokes wants them here. H.D. says he’s a great pitcher. Their only weaknesses are Graeme Thompson and the inability to touch home plate in the clutch.

(3) MACFLEET & STUFF will live or die with their defense and pitching as they make their last attempt to win a championship. This team is full of class athletes, and they’re my personal choice, if only they learn how to swallow in the late innings of playoff games.

(4) SU MADRE, with its King Kong batting order of Sheridan, Boslet, Faircloth, and others has the power to go all the way. They also acquired Locke White on waivers from MacFleet. The question marks are fielding in general and Craig “Iron Glove” Pyles in particular.

(5) KA is probably underrated at 5th, but it is hard to pick them higher after they graduated so many Hall of Famers. Howard, Toye, and Rosenberg look good, but the pitching is weak. They are trouble, even in a rebuilding year.

(6) BONE is trying to buy the pennant in Yankee fashion. Piercy and Dillard played out their options with the DC baseball team and signed big contracts. The scouting report is that Sluff has no arc and Hiner Hantrick has no talent.

(7) CHARLIE’S ANGELS include McDonald, Hock, Grimsley, and Cordell. Scott Phillips had contract problems and jumped teams, so this club is a question mark, even though they say he was no good anyway.

(8) KING WALLOW AND THE SWINGING BOAS is a stupid name. Ferraro says that their stars are Kelly, Berberick, and Ferraro. They beat MacFleet in preseason, but the Yankees are 2-11, so who cares?

(9) PHI DELTA THETA B.C’s features “too slow” Cox and nine-year veteran Frank Fields. They are hurting because most Delt talent is on other rosters.

(10) PIKA #1, led by Mike “he can’t hit, but I can’t catch” Munger, will be the 10th seed in the tournament and the first eliminated. Holding tryouts is of questionable value when there is no talent to draw from.

The Longest Yard may crack the top ten because of such noted varsity athletes as Pat Dulany, Scott Phillips, Bob McCarthy, and Bob Sweet. Other teams with at least a prayer are Sequoia, Alpha Ro Alpha, Tut’s Up, and the Hole. Teams with no prayer include Several Furry Little Animals (several zeros and Ted Jones) and the Cleveland Browns, who requested to be put in B league if there is one. The Old Men have a team, too, although I shouldn’t have mentioned them.

Just minutes north of Davidson,

The Buttery and Beanery

Offers some delicious food served quickly and fresh.

Open: Monday - Friday weekends

Phone: 892-8686

THE COPELAND

Custom Framing

THE VILLAGE STORE

A WORLD OF GIFTS

- Men's Leather, Jewelry, Accessories
- Alva Museum Replica Jewelry
- Hallmark Candles, Tapers
- Soaps, Scents, Fragrances
- Stuffed Animals, Puppets, Puzzles
- Games for all ages
- Kitchen Gadgets, China, Crystal
- Mobiles, Chimes
- Mats, Trays, Table Decorations

CARDS, STATIONERY, PARTY GOODS

- Greeting Cards by Hallmark, Pawprints, Caspari, Recycled Paper, Blue Mtn. Arts, Harvey Hutter
- Fine Writing Instruments and Papers
- All the Trimmings for Parties and Playtime

UNDER THE SKYLIGHT

- Plants, Pots, Baskets
- Planters, Stands, Hangers
- Vases and Accessories to compliment your decorating ideas

HOUSE GALLERY

GLASSWARE SALE

Surplus chemical glassware prices start at 25¢
Wednesday, April 4
9:30 - 5:30