2—The Davidsonian—November 2, 1979

Basketball block seating at Coliseum still inconvenient

By SCOTT EBLIN
Staff Correspondent

Davidson students will not be able to secure block seating for basketball games at the Charlotte Coliseum, according to a memo issued by Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill.

Under this year’s ticket policy, a student may pick up one complimentary ticket at the athletic ticket office by presenting his ID. Also, a student can pick up his ticket at the Coliseum on the night of the game if he has not done so in advance. Students will not be able to pick up other students’ tickets, even if they have the others’ IDs.

Cartmill gave two reasons for not allowing students to pick up tickets for a group. First, the accounting system used by Coliseum management makes block seating inconvenient. Second, Cartmill said a fraternity or eating house’s taking a block of the best seats is “discriminatory to the individual or independent who is left out in left field in the less desirable seats."

SGA President John Jackson said he agreed with Cartmill but added, “Hopefully, a fair and reasonable procedure for reserving group tickets can be worked out between the Athletic Office and the SGA.”

The basketball team will play ten games at the Coliseum this season. Complimentary tickets will be available for students for all these games except the First Union Invitational Tournament, to be played December 7 and 8, and the Davidson-UNCC game, to be played in February. The Charlotte Jaycees are sponsoring the tournament and are selling tickets to Davidson students at a discount rate of two dollars. Cartmill anticipates that both the tournament and the UNCC game might sell out and encourages students to get their tickets early.

Housing situation remains ‘tremendously tight’

By NANCY WARREN
Staff Correspondent

Although Director of Housing Bill Bolding expects everyone to have a room winter term, the housing situation is “tremendously tight.” Bolding says that placing the 25 students returning from the fall term Beaufort Program will not be a problem since 21 of the 25 reserved rooms last year. However, the students who temporarily reside in thirteen of these rooms must relocate winter term. These displaced students can either go off campus or fill some of the 28 spaces left by students departing for the stay on campus must then move again spring term.

The present housing problem, according to Bolding, results not from the size of the freshman class but from the unusually large number of upperclassmen choosing to stay on campus. Only 96 seniors went off campus this year compared to the 175 the Housing Office “banks on” every year. As a result, 52 juniors and 28 sophomores “were forced off campus.”

-Architecture- (continued from page 1)

apartments. The major stumbling block with the Randolph plan is financing, according to Terry. The failure of the College to receive HUD building loans in 1972 and 1979 forced the College to raise money for dorms from the private sector. The Trustees had disapproved of this method of raising funds for dorms. Their policy was that a dormitory must pay for itself through student fees, Terry said.

Terry said that the choice of Little had been “expedient” and due to his experience with the Randolph plans he feels that “the committee cannot design a building.” Meetze said that Little is a fine architecture firm and that the campus’ classically-oriented architecture may be unexciting but it is “well matched.”

Bolding sees this back-to-campus movement as part of a national trend, which, with Davidson's declining attrition rate, increases the competition for dorm space. If the student population does not increase, two new dorms, scheduled for completion in September 1981 and providing 112-114 additional spaces, will alleviate the present housing problems, Bolding said. Until then, Bolding hopes to revamp the present lottery system, which puts sophomores at a disadvantage. He will meet soon with the Council on Campus and Religious Life to discuss alternative systems. Bolding will propose an open lottery or a lottery excluding seniors who will then choose from the remaining rooms. He wants to protect the interests of the sophomores who “especially need the community and security” found in a dorm situation.

Bolding said he plans to “advertise heavily” for off-campus living. This will ensure that theLounges in Cannon, Sentelle, Little, and Watts are empty by next year, Bolding said.

——Evaluation——— (continued from page 1)

The ICES form has two parts. First, students respond to three "global" questions asked about the professor and the course. Second, they answer 23 questions selected by the professor being evaluated. The professor selects his questions from a master list of 623 questions, and the results reflect reaction to specific areas of his course.

Kello said that the size of the master list allows professors to find questions that are suitable for analyzing particular styles and courses. McKelway, however, feels that many of the questions are restatements of others and added that any such questionnaires are "limited" in what they can help professors discover.

Kello added that he would be "truly surprised" if students did not respond objectively in the ICES forms. McKelway said use of the ICES forms might have negative effects on the faculty. Since both students and faculty will consider the ICES results as an "important aspect" of evaluation, professors—especially those concerned about raises, promotions, and tenure—will attempt to maximize their ratings. "It is well for faculty to want to please students, but if pleasing students becomes more important than it should in (professors') professional judgments,...then the quality of education will have to suffer," McKelway said.

Kello emphasized that the purpose of the ICES forms is to allow professors to modify course content in response to critical evaluation. He doubted that professors would pander to students to get high ICES ratings. "There is a difference between viable response (to student criticism) and pandering to students," Kello said.

McKelway criticized the global questions as "caricatures" and the forms' "meaningless" approach to evaluation. (The three global questions are: rate the course content; rate the instruction; and rate the course in general.) McKelway said student responses might often reflect how pleased students were about certain courses rather than what they learned. "Good teaching and levels of student pleasure are supposed to be ineluctably joined—but that ain't true," McKelway said.

Kello said that he felt Davidson students were "sophisticated" and "responsible" enough to state the difference between easy, enjoyable courses and challenging ones.

In a September interview, PAC Chairman Anthony Abbott noted that "Generally the reaction [of the faculty to the forms] was positive," though he conceded that "some people just don’t like forms." The forms "have not been adopted permanently," Abbott said, but will be reevaluated by the PAC after six terms of use.

——Self-Selection—— (continued from page 1)

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze. (Dave Fleming)

A freshman who hasn't shown any interest at all in a house or fraternity will be higher on the waiting list than someone who has shown a lot of interest simply by the luck of the draw. The new rules may allow the house to let the interested freshmen in by challenging the uninterested freshman’s selection.

Eglin added that the challenge must be based on how much interest the freshman has shown, not on the house members’ personal opinions of the person. The guidelines are based on suggestions made by fraternities and eating houses. "It is amazing how much the proposals from eating houses differed from those of fraternities," Eglin said. "Everything we decided was a compromise."

Committee member Jeff Harris said he opposed having two sets of rules, stressing that they are merely approximations. "My main concern is that future freshman advisors will take these approximations literally, but I think there are enough safeguards to prevent this," Harris said.

Committee member Al Rhyne countered by noting the desires of the fraternities. "They felt like freshmen ought to meet officers to discuss the concept of national fraternities so that the unity within a fraternity will not be diminished," he said. They wanted interested freshmen to attend more social functions because "fraternities are more socially oriented" than eating houses, Rhyne said.

Any violation of these procedures should be reported to the Dean of Students or a member of the Self-Selection Regulatory Committee. Despite the efforts of the committee, council member Jim Robertson predicted that at least one hundred freshmen will be denied membership in Patterson Court houses because of limited openings and the unusually large freshman class.

SUBSCRIPTIONS TO THE DAVIDSONIAN may be obtained by writing:
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N.C. 28036
Rates: 1 year $6
2 years $11