THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

“Citizen of the World?”

Hodding Carter's speech Monday night was another example of the misguided obsession with power and national pride that colors much of American foreign policy and which seems to be ingrained in much of the American consciousness. Mr. Carter spoke almost exclusively about America’s dominant position in the world and how Jimmy Carter's administration has maintained it. He seemed to view the world solely as a stage for the conflict between America and Russia. When he did mention the existence of non-aligned nations, he mentioned them only in relation to America’s struggle with Russia. And most disturbing, he spoke of the Carter administration’s efforts toward “managing the conflict” as if no one had any desire to end it at all.

It is hard to rationally question that the Soviet Union is our adversary in many fields and must be treated as such. Yet diplomacy could and should be much more than merely choosing sides for two opposing teams of allies. The United States should not heighten the conflict by attempting to sway other countries to its side merely for its own selfish interests. We must shed our national chauvinism and work to allow nations to maintain their neutrality.

This all-encompassing power struggle has also caused us to lose sight of our ideals. Witness our support of the unpopular dictators Park Chung Hee of Korea, the Shah of Iran, Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam, and Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua. In all of these cases, our concern was with power, not democracy.

Mr. Carter’s exposition of the dichotomy between America and Russia completely ignored an equally important division in the world—that between the rich and the poor. The developed nations aggrandize a large majority of the world’s natural resources although they contain a decided minority of its population. The United States alone accounts for approximately one-third of yearly world consumption of natural resources, yet contains only about 8% of the world’s population. Meanwhile, roughly one-fourth of the world goes hungry. We wallow in luxury; they wallow in deprivation.

Mr. Carter rambled on and on about America’s efforts to spread democracy and human rights but he forgot to mention the idea of spreading our wealth also. It means very little for the United States to stand up for the civil liberties of someone dying of starvation. The right to vote is of no use to a dead man. If we are really concerned about our fellow man, we will try to feed him and teach him to feed himself, not merely attempt to remake his government in our own image. America has a great political heritage from which to offer help to developing nations, but it also has a great storehouse of wealth which it could share.

This dichotomy between the rich and the poor reflects badly on America’s image of itself as a nation with conscience and alienates underdeveloped nations which Mr. Carter seemed to regard as so important in the struggle for power and prestige. We would not maintain that the Carter administration is totally unconcerned for the world’s poor and starving. Yet when one of its top spokesmen fails to mention the problem whatsoever in a speech ostensibly about the major issues in American foreign policy, it is cause for very serious concern. We must treat the world’s poor as human beings, not pawns.

UT Should Respect Death

We strongly deplore the University of Tennessee’s decision to remove the dead animal art from its art building. (See “Several furry little animals dead,” page 8). Tennessee’s Art Department Chairman Donald Kurka justified the decision to eradicate the exhibits by saying, “I assume it was someone’s idea of art. It’s not mine, though.” Such intolerance cannot be tolerated. The removal constitutes a violation of artistic and academic freedom as well as the sanctity of a corpse. Leave the dead alone.

—Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Ensembles

To the Editor:

As a member of the Davidson community who enjoys the College musical events, may I congratulate all members of the wind and brass ensembles and their director on a superb and exciting concert Tuesday evening. It has been gratifying to watch the growth of these ensembles and their development in performance under the direction of Dr. Lawing.

Marjorie M. McCutchanUltimately quite meaningful. The beautiful scenery, intriguing people, and tasty tropical fruit only make life more enjoyable. All of us have made life-long friends we shall regret to leave. If you are interested in the work, you should see the tallest man in the Union basement—unless Jamie Hall is working in the Student Store. P.S. You can escape the dreary Davidson winter, and perhaps the Draft.

Retired College Librarian Glen Darbyshire ‘79

Thanks From Kenya
Bill McGavock

To the Editor:

Jambo! The recent death of Bill McGavock has prompted me to write to thank the students and staff of our alma mater and the Y-Service Corps for the $880 we received recently. Although news of a declining dollar and soaring gold prices occasionally passes our way, Kenyans still covet George Washington for more than his honesty. The humble student on a tight budget knows how the volunteer in a struggling self-help school feels as he begs, borrows, and borrows without returning the required books. Fortunately, a set of books for a secondary school student costs only around $15, which now in the States might procure two composition books, a Bic fine point, and your choice from Pepperidge Farm’s “Distinctive Cookie Line.”

We shall divide the money among the seven Davidson volunteers teaching in Kenya’s Western Province. The schools vary considerably in their stage of development, but no one will have much trouble finding a worthy project to complete. The “Davidson Connection” in Kenya is unusual in its strength and consistency. Few colleges in America can claim equal percentages of students engaging in development work, and the personal ties between the college and specific Kenyan schools which grow year by year distinguish Davidson's connection from various government programs. Our work is largely self-directed.

To the Editor:

The recent death of Bill McGavock has prompted me to reflect upon my relationship with this extraordinary man and his contribution to the North Carolina Fellows Program. When “Dr. Mac” suffered a stroke ten years ago, he was the Director of NCFP, a duty he had performed for approximately three years. In addition, he carried a full teaching load, served as Chairman of the Math Department, served on various faculty committees, and was, for many years, one of the most influential and respected members of the faculty at a time when it played the predominant role in governing the academic and student affairs of the College.

His involvement with the NCFP is an interesting reflection of his life and greatness as a man. The NCFP was founded in 1966 by the Richardson Foundation for the purpose of developing the leadership potential of selected college students. The primary means of fulfilling this mandate were envisioned to be (1) summer internships, (2) the personal influence of the Director and other Program Advisors, and (3) the interaction of the students in the program. When the first Director left after one year and resigned, his resignation left the program in a precarious position: its value was still unproven, and it was increasingly clear that a strong, active Director would be necessary to give the program a fair test.

Given Bill McGavock’s recognized leadership at Davidson College, it is not surprising that Greer Martin, the President of the College, recommended Bill as the next Director. Prior to accepting the position, Bill McGavock interviewed each of the students in the program at that time. I am convinced that his decision to become the Director was the result of the students’ enthusiasm and need, coupled with the opportunity for him to serve in another creative way. For the next three years—until his stroke—Dr. McGavock served without equal as Director.

(See McGavock, page 11)

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Sheri Gravett, Executive Editor
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor
Van Beck, Sports Editor
Jeff Herrin, Backpage Editor