Reynolds Lecturer won Nobel for Aborigine medical research

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Staff Writer

Dr. Daniel Gajdusek, winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize for Medicine, will visit Davidson April 28-29 as the 1980 Reynolds
Lecturer. Although most

Gajdusek’s work is among the most unusual medical research in recent years. His prize-winning project began in 1953 when he
visited New Guinea, the home of the most primitive Aboriginal tribes in the world. These tribes inhabited the valleys in
the central highlands of the island and, at the time of Gajdusek’s visit, lived in virtual Stone Age conditions. In
one tribe, a mysterious disease was decimating the population with noticeable regularity. A public health official, Dr. Vincent Zigas, had
reported the disease to local authorities but did not receive much attention. When Gajdusek heard about the disease, he was
intrigued and decided to stay in New Guinea, hoping to study it.

The disease is called kuru in the tribal language, which means “trembling,” the first noticeable symptom. As Zigas had noticed,
it was a fatal brain disorder predominant among women and children. It seemed to follow family patterns but otherwise occurred
without apparent cause or cure. With little more than this to go on, Gajdusek moved in with the natives, sharing
their culture and lifestyle for 10 months.

He made extensive journeys into the surrounding highlands, mapping the geographical distribution of kuru, and buying bodies of victims from
tribal members with axes and tobacco. After extensive research, his results were inconclusive, but interest had been drawn to his
work, and similarities between kuru and certain animal diseases were found. The common factor was the long period of time
that passed between infection and noticeable symptoms of the disease: anywhere from five to twenty years.

Gajdusek continued his work, transplanting brain tissue from human victims into chimpanzees, with the same lethal results. By comparing kuru
with similar diseases, Gajdusek was able to prove a current theory that human degenerative diseases could be caused by “slow-acting
viruses” which might not become active for years. In the case of kuru, the viruses were transmitted from the brain
cells of the victims to their surviving families, who ate the brains in a funerary ritual.

The implications of kuru research are important, for they provide new information on the nature of multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s Disease,
Huntington’s Disease, and other related diseases that can strike people after years of perfect health.

Richard Marsh, Department of Veterinary Sciences, University of Wisconsin, praised Gajdusek and his Nobel Prize saying, “Waiting for long incubation
periods and experiments that never seem to end will be a little more tolerable now, thanks to the honor bestowed
on a unique individual.”

Gajdusek’s knowledge in areas other than medicine played an integral part in his work on kuru. His lectures, “The Philosophy
of Medical Research in Isolated, Pre-literate Societies,” on Monday and “The Discovery of Slow Viruses and Its Implications for Medical
Research” on Tuesday should reflect his wide-ranging interests.

Both lectures will be given in the 900 Room at 7:30 p.m. each evening. Informal conversation with Gajdusek will be
held at 10:00 a.m. each day in Chambers Gallery.

Carolyne enchanted both students and police alike.

Berkeley group gives Reagan its sarcastic support

(CPS)—A presidential candidate, Ronald Reagan, who has fared poorly in student-dominated precincts during the primaries, has unwittingly rallied some dubious
support on the University of California-Berkeley campus.

Calling itself the “Reagan for Shah Committee,” a group of allegedly pro-Reagan activists has announced its plans to protest the
“ugly emergence of neo-anti-war hysteria on America’s campuses.”

Zodiac News Service reports that committee members claim “thousands of clean, decent, obedient Americans” support them. The committee plans university
rallies to protest the “disturbing specter of draft resistance hanging over our universities and colleges.”

Organized support for the committee’s efforts is said to come from such groups as the “John Wayne Peace Institute,” “Mutants
for a Radioactive Environment,” “Berkeley Students for War,” “The National Grenade Owners Association,” among others.

Add experience

The world can be big and bad for some. For others, it looks much easier. Survival means different things to
different people. Is it luck or preparation?

Preparation seems to be the key. Consider the leadership training and management skills you can develop in Army ROTC. The
margin of difference that can put you ahead in the big, bad world of tough job competition.

You may be a sophomore. Or have just two years remaining in school. It’s not too late to add Army
ROTC. And add experience to your degree. Contact us to learn what it takes to lead.
