Charlotte Symphony

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, directed by Leo Driehuys, will end its 1979-80 season this Wednesday, April 9, with a concert
that includes violinist Eugene Fodor.

Fodor, who will join the Orchestra for two pieces, is one of the world’s outstanding violinists. Winner of the 1972
International Paganini Violin Competition and Moscow's Tschaikovsky International Competition, Fodor has won acclaim in the music capitals of the world.

The concert will begin at 8:15. Tickets are available at $9-$5.50, $4.50 for students (call 332-6136 for more information).

The Back Page

Spring Frolics

Spring is definitely in the air, and plans for the annual spring frolics are being made. The weekend of April
18-19 promises to be a full weekend, with a steady barrage of visiting musicians. That Friday evening (April 18) female
vocalist Carolyn Mas will perform on the baseball field, along with the group Budge. Then on Saturday evening (April 19),
a dance will be held in the Gym with Bill Deal and the Rondales, followed up by the well-known Tavares.

In addition to these four, the Triangles will be performing in the 900 Room on both Friday and Saturday nights.

In the 900 Room

This weekend the 900 Room will be graced by some of Davidson’s more talented students. Several students, including John Hartman,
Betsy Holton, David Lyons, and Kirsten McDonald will be performing Friday and Saturday nights.

T.J. Reddy

Local poet T.J. Reddy will be on campus Tuesday, April 8th for a discussion of poetry with Maxine Kumin. A
member of the Performing Art Guild Ensemble, the Charlotte Three, and former director of the Afro-American Culture Center, Reddy will
also be autographing his latest book, "Poems in One Part Harmony." According to the author, this work is a collection
of "poems dealing with social issues, political issues, and educational issues from a creative perspective."

The discussion with Ms. Kumin will be at 10:00 a.m., in the Morrison Room. Reddy is here as part of
Prison Awareness Week.

Events on Campus

Friday, April 4
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film (R)

Sunday, April 6
11:00 a.m. Easter Mass 900 Room
7:30 p.m. “Celebrate Life”—Easter Musical

Monday, April 7
7:30 Maxine Kumin: Presentation of Vereen Bell Prize ceremony 900 Room
8:15 Senior Organ Recital: Roger Farabee DCPC

Emmy Knobloch is the number one women's tennis player. (Trey Thies)

Wednesday, April 9
8:00 Fine Film: Ziggy Stardust

Thursday, April 10
2:00 Women’s Tennis: Guilford Home
3:00 Baseball: Juniata Home

Captain Robert Elliot, Prison Superintendent, will speak

Saturday, April 5
All Day—Men’s and Women’s Track: Wilborns Relays Home
3:00 Baseball: Juniata Home
Sailing: Clemson Invitational Regatta, or Duke Points Regatta Away

Monday, April 7
2:00 Women’s Tennis: High Point Away
3:00 Baseball: N.C. State Away

Tuesday, April 8
2:00 Men’s Tennis: J.C. Smith Home
2:00 Women’s Tennis: Furman Away

Wednesday, April 9
3:00 Men’s Tennis: UNCC Home

Thursday, April 10
2:00 Women’s Tennis: Peace Away

In Charlotte

With the vast amounts of nothing taking place on campus this weekend, it might be time to check out the
Charlotte scene. That city is not exactly Hotlanta, but there are a few bars where things do happen. A few
of the better ones are:

Slug’s Oval Office—This is supposedly a classy place. It has been described as having a quiet atmosphere with mellow music.

Lanny’s—This is the place for those who like to go as they are: blue jeans and all.

Whispers—Possibly the wildest singles bar in Charlotte. Go with an open mind and anything can happen. (4321 Park Rd.)

Mortimer's Lounge—They say this one has the best music and the talent is always top-notch. (Registry Inn, 321 Woodlawn Rd.)

Steak & Ale—For those who want to avoid the disco-type environment entirely. A facsimile of an Old English Pub, this
bar has a friendlier atmosphere than most. (4750 Albemarle Rd.)

Diamond Jim's—One of Charlotte’s more elaborate bars, Diamond Jim's caters to the wilder type. A game room provides diversion for
the uninterested while beer drinking is the norm. (East Fourth St. and Independence Blvd.)
