went wane bleer .8T WACHE ew

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Not Enough Dough

We are rather surprised that the Trustees don’t seem to have anything to do at their meeting this weekend. According
to President Spencer's office, the Trustees will be undergoing several educational activities to fill a hole in their schedule created
by the postponement of discussion of Davidson's athletic policies. But Davidson athletics have probably caused the most controversy of any
issue this year, and with good reason. Davidson's football and basketball programs cost the College money it should be putting
into education.

The Trustees will not discuss athletics supposedly because the report of the Visiting Athletic Committee has not arrived yet. Apparently,
the Trustees feel any consideration of changes in athletic policy would be unwise without the advice of the three athletic
administrators who make up the committee. The Trustees may or may not be right, since the committee’s report probably will
be of some value. But the Trustees should not lose sight of the fact that the Visiting Athletic Committee is
only qualified to comment on how the Athletic Department should be run internally, not on how athletics fit into Davidson’s
purpose as an institution.

We hope the Trustees will use their extra time to carefully weigh the benefits of Davidson’s football and basketball programs
against the financial harms they do our educational program. As we stated last week, a $249,000 (1979 fiscal year) expenditure
on football is simply unjustifiable in these hard economic times—the faculty is still underpaid, minor sports are still underfunded, and
tuition is rising at an alarming rate. The same is probably true of the $210,000 Davidson spent on basketball last
year, although perhaps Coach Eddie Biedenbach and his charges might deserve one more chance to prove themselves. Both programs are
suspect, football doubly so because it will never make money. Basketball has in the past, and conceivably could again.

We hope that when the Trustees do consider Davidson’s athletic policy, they will question its basic assumption that big-time sports
are good for Davidson, and not merely find an excuse for things to go on as they are. The longer
the status quo in athletics continues, the more endangered the quality of a Davidson education will be.

— Mark Barrett

Problems, Problems

Athletics isn’t the only problem the Trustees must deal with soon. Here are a few other issues that should be
foremost on the Trustees' minds this weekend.

Admissions: The College’s decision to recruit students mostly from the South is hard to understand. If the College truly wants
a heterogeneous student body, it should recruit students from all areas of the country. College should be a place where
students’ views are challenged, not where one meets students from the same area with usually similar beliefs.

Enrollment: The Administration keeps repeating that there are no immediate plans to up enrollment. Yet enrollment has presently crept up
to 1,362, and may be even higher next year. And the new student complex is being designed to accommodate 1,400
students. The College should hold the line on enrollment and build accordingly.

Finances: Davidson's next Development Director will have a tough job. Only 27% of Davidson’s alumni donate money to the school,
a very low figure in comparison with other schools’ records. The 1987 campaign, our last major fundraising program, is barely
adjusted for inflation since 1972. Our finances appear to be in general disarray, and someone must realize that it is
past time to look for a new direction.

If the Trustees discuss little this weekend, it won’t be for lack of topics.

Mark Barrett

“Quite frankly, Mr. Gilbert, your total lack of regard for human life has deemed you unqualified as our new manager
of customer relations.”

The Campus Forum

Four Years

To the Editor:

What do we get from four years at Davidson? A diploma for sure, or perhaps a ticket to a job
or graduate school. But didn’t most of us originally come to Davidson to enrich our learning? We arrive at Davidson
ignorant only to become fascinated with the world of liberal arts. By the time we are seniors, we should be
crazed with the wonders of the liberal arts world. But look what happens. We see the neophyte freshmen discussing Plato’s
Republic, existentialism, or Charlemagne’s Empire in the confines of their dorms. Seniors on the other hand talk of training programs
of Charlotte banks, recent medical discoveries, or pending corporate lawsuits. What has Davidson done to us? What has happened in
four years? What have we learned? Here is my list of what I’ve learned:

1. If you want to getTo know a Davidson coed, talk to her in the library. If you try to
meet her at a band party, she will ignore you, assuming that you are trying to pick her up.
2. The SAE dance floor can hold no more than three couples.
3. It is useless to go to the post office every day unless you take the Wall Street Journal or
subscribe to many magazines.
4. Always take a date to a PiKA party.
5. Slater food isn’t as bad as everyone says it is—it’s worse.
6. Don’t ask too many questions in class. Certain questions can irritate professors, such as: If God does not exist,
what happens to religion professors with tenure? What would have happened if Napoleon had the MX missile? Aren’t social sciences
just a complicated form of common sense?
7. Success in the course lottery is crucial to academic success at Davidson.
8. To obtain dark socks free of charge simply send your white socks to the laundry along with a colored
shirt.
9. If it weren’t for FIJIs and football players, this college would have a 0% attrition rate.
10. GPA means “Grade Preoccupation Assessment.”
11. The only difference between KAs and Boy Scouts is that the KAs blow all their money on one campout.
12. A second-rate professor will tell you that your ideas are foolish. A first-rate professor will show you that your
ideas are foolish.
13. I have learned not to criticize the SPEs—that would be cruel. I would feel less ashamed if I challenged
George Wallace to a tennis match.
14. Life for a Davidson female is not paradise among a sea of good-looking Davidson gentlemen.
15. It costs more to insure the Phi Delt house than it costs Evel Knievel to insure his motorcycles.
16. I have learned that despite my feelings now, in twenty years I will be glad I came here.

Rick Johnston ‘80

What You Make It

To the Editor:

I have been on this campus for four terms. On May 25, God willing, I will get my diploma slapped
into my hand. (If you want to know how it’s done, ask Dr. Burts or me sometime.) But before that
day, I want to give you folks a piece of my mind about this place. I promise not to bore
you with the typical milktoast of a senior letter about “Taking this course...” or “Stop and talk to the people...”
I don’t want to advise anyone.

There is an essence to this place that no one can quite put his finger on. Call it the great
student body, the lovely campus, the faculty, the social life (or lack of it), the dorms, or the infamous library,
it is there. Everyone is part of it, and oddly enough, I don’t think it will evaporate from our person
when we leave. What I’m saying is that the spirit here is what makes this such a dynamic place to
be: so decide how you want to enjoy it, you personally, and then go on and do it. You cannot
go wrong!

No one can tell you what to do in Davidson: If you want to live in the library, go ahead.
(Just don’t take in any food or drink.) If you decide you want to be part of every party here,
then more power to you. (Someone has to go to them!) If you want to look like you did everything
on campus, then go for it. Davidson is trying to show you what you can achieve and we're all smart
enough to do what we set our minds to. The motivation and skills you develop here are something you can’t
lose, no matter what you choose to do.

Every senior looks back at his “Davidson experience” this time of year and decides what made it fun, interesting, good,
bad, dull, or thrilling. Then they write a plethora of long, sappy letters telling you, as an underclassman, what to
do. Or they go around with long faces, preaching. My point is this: Decide what you want from Davidson, and
set about getting it. You’re surrounded by people and faculty who will help you. You'll have a great four years
whether or not you listen to us. So don’t.

Lucy Kinne ‘80

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson
College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
