Nader's moods ranged from argumentative to puckish in a 900 Room breakfast with students Tuesday. Ralph Nader urges active interest
and involvement in society from health and safety regulations to nuclear power. By the end of the hour and a
half program, the people remaining in Love Auditorium were not disappointed.

By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

He mounted the stage slowly with the look of concern on his face that has been his trademark throughout his
public career, the look of a busy man who carries a large part of the weight of the world on
his shoulders. Tuesday morning, those who came to see this man whose name has become a household word were not
disappointed. In front of the news cameras and the large audience, Ralph Nader did appear.

Nader centered his remarks on what college students can do in society, how they can be educated consumers, and how
they can foster good consumerism. According to Nader, informed and organized consumers can resist price gouging, unethical corporate practices, and
harmful business policies. The ultimate aim of business should be to benefit the consumer, he asserted, but only by overcoming
the wasteful and inefficient practices of business can this end be realized.

Obviously addressing the college students in the audience, Nader called for college research aimed at protecting the consumer. "Most students,"
Nader said, "respond to college work with fear and boredom," but significant research could alter this. He emphasized that this
research should be spurred by a sense of injustice. Too many people, he stated, have rationalized immoral practices in business
and society. College students, Nader said, should not.

Nader then turned to the broader subject of consumerism and said that the principle of consumerism should rest on an
ancient Roman proverb: "Whatever touches all should be decided by all." Unfortunately, he said, consumers will be controlled by business
if they allow it. The purpose of government is to open up the process and allow for more consumer input.
Student research could facilitate this, he added, citing his own law school research in automobile design safety, which eventually led
to federal safety requirements. Citizens must assert an "it's my body" attitude and demand proper service or be prepared to
accept their position as abused consumers, Nader said.

Nader spoke out in defense of NC-PIRG. Nader noted that PIRG research is both "intellectually demanding" and effective, citing the
organization's role in the passing of North Carolina's generic drug law, which will save North Carolina consumers $6 million this
year. Nader indirectly criticized the decision made by College President Samuel Spencer last summer and confirmed by a student referendum
this fall to discontinue funding PIRG through the "negative check-off system."

Harris & Wilson Plan Management Seminar for Serious Students
Staff Writer

Davidson students Jeff Harris and Bill Wilson, in conjunction with the pre-management committee, have organized a management seminar for anyone
interested in business careers. The seminar will feature small group discussions, leadership simulations, and business exercises focusing on the topic
of "Managing for Productivity in the 1980s."

Wilson and Harris are enthusiastic about this year's seminar. Harris points to "the wealth of personal experience" which the managers
will be sharing with the students; Wilson feels the benefit lies in the fact that "the students will be able
to personally and informally interact with some of Charlotte's most progressive and successful business leaders." Registration deadline is April 11.
Anyone with questions concerning the seminar should contact either Jeff Harris (-6094) or Bill Wilson (-4121). Interested persons can register
at Suzie Summers' office. There is a $3.00 fee to be paid upon registration.System, the $4 fee to support PIRG
was included in the comprehensive student fee. Those who did not wish to pay deducted $4. Nader called this negative
check-off system “the much more democratic approach” and asked students to reconsider their support. After concluding his plug for Davidson's
chapter of NC-PIRG, Nader directed his comments to North Carolina’s national congressmen and their records on consumer legislation. He classified
them as “abysmal,” partly due to a lack of grassroots pressure. According to Nader, Ninth District Congressman Jim Martin voted
in the interests of consumers only 8% of the time in 1979 and backed the oil industry interests on all
nine of the major energy bills he voted on last year. In addition, Nader attacked North Carolina Senators Helms and
Morgan, as well as Martin, for failing to make it better for all.

Nader fielded questions, and students were well aware that they had seen the nation’s premier consumer advocate doing what he
does best—presenting his case to the American people.

Next year’s resident advisors will have greater duties, smaller fees
By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

Beginning next year, two resident advisors will replace each house manager in Little, Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle dormitories. The changeover
will spread to other dorms in subsequent years. The responsibilities of the resident advisors will be wider than those of
the house managers. The resident advisors will be responsible for checking students in and out at the beginning and end
of each year. They will also be available for reference and for organizing certain as-of-yet unspecified activities for the dorms.
In addition, they will also sit on the Resident Hall Council which concerns itself with dorm matters. The resident advisors
will undergo a more extensive training program than the house managers have had, and will be given half of room
fees plus the set fee given to both resident advisors and house managers.

Bolding supported the change, stating, “We are providing for the needs of the people in dorms. It is also more
consistent with the programs at other colleges.” Next year’s resident advisors are: In Little, David Rhodes and John Boswell; in
Watts, Bill Dascombe and John Chung; in Cannon, Julie Weber and Annie Guerard; and in Sentelle, Keith Hearle and Bruce
Wallace. House managers for the other three dorms have also been appointed—Rick Gergoudis in Duke, Frank Clark and John Teague
in Belk, and Barbara Boyce in Richardson.

Town Community Center begins bartering program for services
By JEFF DEMPSEY
Staff Correspondent

The Davidson Community Center has recently begun a service program in which community members help each other by exchanging services.
This Bartering Program involves the establishment of a file box at the Community Center where anyone desiring to participate may
fill out a card indicating what services he has to offer and what services he would like in return. The
services can be any odd job or skill ranging from painting to bookkeeping to teaching piano to offering a ride.
They may be a one-afternoon job or a task spread out over several weeks. The details are to be worked
out between individuals after initial contact is made through this program.

For students who wish to put a card on file, a sign-up sheet has been placed at the Union desk
along with a list of suggestions for services that can be traded. All entries on this sheet will be put
on cards and placed in the file box at the Community Center. Groups such as freshman halls, eating houses, and
“small groups,” as well as individuals, can place a card on file since many jobs are too large for one
person. The program is under the guidance of Veronica Abrams at the Community Center, and student involvement is coordinated through
similar programs.
