ave. Ste Sal THE DAVIDSONIAN Volume LXX, Number 1 Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. September 19, 1980

Committee supports present major sports policies

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Davidson need make no changes in its basketball and football programs but must increase support of women’s athletics, according to
the report of an independent athletic evaluation committee. The committee spent two years evaluating Davidson’s athletic department. Its members were
University of The Trustee Athletic Committee and the Athletic Advisory Council will examine the report, according to College President Samuel
Spencer. Spencer said these committees will probably issue statements at the February meeting of the Board of Trustees.

The committee’s central recommendation called for a public statement from the Board of Trustees outlining Davidson’s philosophy of athletics. The
committee felt that present policy is too concerned with Davidson’s institutional visibility at the expense of the welfare of the
athletes themselves. A Southern Conference basketball championship was “possible and probable,” according to the report. The basketball team should therefore
continue playing in Division I-A as a member of the Southern Conference. National top ten status, however, is not a
realistic goal, the report added. The committee judged the football team to be “competitive” in Division I-AA and called the
alternatives to I-AA (Trey Thies) major record companies.

The report contained no major criticisms of the basketball or football budgets. The women’s athletic program, however, was described as
“underfinanced and understaffed” and “in serious violation of Title IX,” a federal mandate for proportionate spending on men’s and women’s
athletics. The committee recommended that the College formulate a detailed plan for conformance with Title IX. Davidson awards 18 basketball
scholarships to men and none to women, according to the report. The report stated that a proportionate number of scholarships
“must be available to women.”

Other major recommendations in the report were:
—The Wildcat Club should raise funds to replace the $85,000 lost in last year’s athletic budget cut. This cut put
the present athletic program beyond the college's financial capabilities.
—The College should establish clear and reasonable deadlines for notification of job termination. This would counteract the feeling among coaches
that they are in constant jeopardy of losing their jobs.

Bingham new A.D.

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Eugene Bingham, the College’s new athletic director, is a self-made man. He has mined coal in West Virginia and served
as a top-level insurance executive. He has lived the American Dream and brings that sort of philosophy to Davidson.

Commons construction continues. See story page 2.

Carrier current station almost ready

By ANN MITCHELL
Staff Correspondent

WDSR (Davidson Student Radio), a new student-run radio station, will begin broadcasting on the Davidson campus in several weeks. WDSR
will play all types of music except classical. “We feel like WDAV has the classical cornered on the Davidson campus,”
sophomore John Odell said. Odell is spokesman for an ad hoc committee that is getting the station off the ground.
Tentative hours of broadcasting are 10 a.m. to midnight six days a week and 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. Saturdays,
according to Odell. Hours will depend on the availability of help. WDSR, broadcasting at 580 AM, will be a carrier
current station, one that transmits into the College’s electrical system. Students in all dorms will be able to tune in
simply by plugging their radios into wall outlets. Students will also be able to listen to WDSR over portable radios
from as far away as Chambers. Station headquarters are in an old ROTC radio room in the basement of Belk
Dormitory. WDAV is offering technical assistance to WDSR by providing several disc jockeys and lending it some records. Also, Odell
said he plans to add to WDSR’s current collection by joining the mailing lists of major record companies. Odell said
that $6,000 has already been spent on equipment, and the Activities Tax Council has budgeted $1200 to WDSR this year.
If funding is increased next year, WDSR plans to expand its record library and improve the sound quality.Davidson athletics: "While
we want to win, our true goal is to strive to win. Winning isn’t everything. Striving to win is everything."
Bingham officially replaced outgoing Athletic Director Thom Cartmill on September 1, though he actually started work a week earlier. Cartmill
is now the golf coach and professor of physical education. Bingham described his authority and expertise as limited to personnel
and financial matters and emphasized that he did not want to interfere with coaches by being a "Monday morning quarterback."
He explained, "My business is business; it’s not coaching."

Money, Bingham said, is the basic component of a successful athletics program. He therefore considers "organized fund-raising efforts" to be
the key means for the Athletic Department to accomplish its goals. However, explaining that his fundraising plans were "still in
the formative stages" with "basic work still to be done," he declined to describe them in any detail. Bingham did
say his fundraising efforts would depend on "interested alumni" who might, for example, donate money specifically to sports they felt
were worthy of support.

Bingham has read up on recent controversies concerning College athletic policy and sees a need to improve opportunities for women
athletes and athletes in non-revenue sports. However, he sees his fundamental role as implementing the policies determined by the Trustees.
". . . The Board of Trustees sets policy," he said, "I don’t. The students don’t. The administration doesn’t. The
faculty doesn’t. [The U.S. Senate] has advise and consent powers. . . We have advise powers only." Seeing the Trustees
as the ultimate authority, Bingham discounts criticism of the Athletic Department by students and faculty as out of place. He
drew this analogy: "I have no opinion whatsoever about the Chemistry Department or the Philosophy Department. . . and will
not voice any either." He emphasized, "I don't want to create any more divisiveness."

What Bingham does want to do is "serve the students. That's the bottom line." He spoke of two other general
goals he had in mind for his department. "Be concerned," he said. "The concept of Christian love is concern. I
want coaches to have a loving attitude." "Be educated." Bingham said students needed a dose of the real world to
complete their educations. He paraphrased Trustee Larry Dagenhart and said, "There's lots and lots of..."

New Post Office may spur town plans
By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

Davidson will have a new post office within the next two and a half years, according to College Business Manager
Bob Currie. The new building is necessary due to Davidson's growing population, according to postal officials. Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac
said the new facility may be built behind the Main Street stores, a move she thinks would spur the town’s
plans to upgrade the downtown area.

The United States Postal Service leases the post office building from the College. The original lease was signed in 1957
for a ten-year period with two additional five-year options. The lease and the two options expired in 1978. Planning to
build a larger post office, the Postal Service then asked for a lease "on a short-term basis," Currie said. This
lease ran for two years with three one-year options. The first of the options is now in effect.

The College is considering moving the Student Store to the present post office when the government finishes its own building,
Currie said. However, Student Store Manager Peter Nichols said he is "not in favor of the idea." Any new business
in the building will have to be compatible with both College and town needs, MacCormac said. The town’s revitalization plan
for the downtown area is in its early stages, with the new post office playing a big part, MacCormac said.
However, the Davidson Town Council is "on hold" until the Postal Service decides where to build the new post office.
If the new post office is built behind the Main Street stores...
