—— Davidsonian — January 25, 1980

Department stages “dream play”

By ESTHER BRUCE

"I wanted to do a play which would put all the emphasis on the actor and the word." Judy Kelly, guest director from the University of Dallas, has found just such a play in Dylan Thomas’ Under Milk Wood, to be performed here January 24th and 25th. The play lends Kelly the opportunity she was seeking to “see what actors would do with nothing.”

The play is somewhat experimental in structure and staging. Each actor plays three or four parts in scenes which are constantly shifting and blending into one another. No props or sound effects other than what the actors themselves create are used.

The play dramatizes the dream of a blind, old sailor, Captain Cat. Kelly manipulates the actors through a void in a fashion which compounds and underscores the dream aspect. One scene melts into another with as much speed and as little logic as any real dream. The script itself prompts the changes. Kelly observed, “Like dreams, it has that strange juxtaposition of reality versus fantasy.” She went on to explain that a scene set in the past may be placed next to one set in the present which in turn is followed by one which is total fantasy.

Under Milk Wood also provides an opportunity for a relatively large number of people to work with an outsider, another director with a different approach. Both Kelly and the Davidson Theater professors took the cast size into account when selecting the play. Thomas’ play was especially good, as it evens out the exposure and does not focus on one star. In this production about 15 people play some 55 parts.

This visit is not Kelly’s first to Davidson. She accompanied her husband, Pat Kelly, in 1977 when he directed Euripides’ Alcestis. The Kellys are able to spend time at Davidson because of the scheduling differences between the University of Dallas and Davidson.

Kelly received an assistantship to the theater department of Marquette, which she claims was her best training ground. The University of Dallas turned to her at this point. Kelly explained, “Dallas had always wanted a theater department. They invited me to come back and found the theater department there.”

The Kellys met theater professor Rupert Barber when they three attended a colloquium on Directing in Modern Theater in 1963. They kept in close touch over the years, always hoping to work out a swap of directors such as this one. Unfortunately, scheduling difficulties arose in getting one of Davidson’s Theater professors to Dallas in return.

Student’s emergency

There are good sides to new shopping centers... (Trey Thies)

Join Us!

Interested in working for The Davidsonian? Positions are open in all areas of the newspaper—we need writers, photographers, typists, proofreaders, business and administrative assistants, etc. No previous newspaper experience is required to work with The Davidsonian. If you want to get involved and are willing to devote some time to the newspaper (you determine how much), come by the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the College Union during the ten o’clock hour Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday.

Volunteer services benefit campus

By CATHERINE McMILLAN

What would YOU do if someone on your hall suddenly fainted in your room?One freshman student had the right idea when she called for Davidson’s student-run emergency rescue service. Within minutes, two student Emergency Medical Technicians were on hand. The College has eight certified EMTs in its volunteer emergency rescue service. To become certified, they took 150 hours of advanced first-aid training. “The prez,” started several years ago by Bob Roigits ’79, has been an effective service to both the college and Dick Deibert, the head of the service, urges everyone to use it. “Our service is not confined to emergencies. It’s on campus—that's exactly why we have volunteered our services.”

EMTs are prepared to handle real emergencies, but they are also willing to give advice about simple injuries, escort students to the infirmary, or even suggest whether a trip to the infirmary is necessary. The infirmary nurse is the first person contacted in an emergency. She takes down the location and the nature of the problem, and then pages the two EMTs on duty. One EMT gets necessary equipment while the other goes immediately to the scene of the accident. Deibert said the biggest problem has been caller impatience. The nurse needs certain information before she can dispatch the EMTs so that they will be prepared to handle the call. It saves time in the long run to answer questions patiently. EMTs take an average of two minutes to arrive after they have been paged.

The EMTs are pleased with the response of Davidson students to the service this year. They average 4 calls every two or three days. “We’ve treated everything from severe lacerations to diabetic reactions to sprained ankles,” said Deibert. So far this year, the EMTs have treated a cheerleader who fell on her head, a head-on flickerball collision, fingers slammed in a door, burns, and auto accidents. “In fact,” Deibert said with a chuckle, “last night we got called out to treat an intoxicated guy who fell down the stairs.” Jeanne Plowden, one of two girls on the squad, says, “I’ve only been sent out into the community once. That was for an elderly person who fell out of bed.”

Is it a big demand on the EMTs' time? Plowden frowns thoughtfully, and then says, “Not too much. Sometimes having to be on campus helps because it forces me to study. If we really have to leave, we can usually work out a switch with someone who's going to be here anyway.” The EMTs feel that theirs is an important service. They stress the fact that it is low-key and that callers should not be intimidated. “When you call, you won’t get half a dozen police cars and ambulances,” said Deibert. Plowden thinks the closeness is important. “A lot of times a student will get hurt and not want to call an ambulance in Cornelius, but he will call an EMT.”

Two EMTs will be graduating this year. Deibert is looking for new volunteers.

Compare our prices
Special Offer!
Calvin Kleins - Reg $30 to $40 now $24.95
Lees 14.88
Levis 14.88
Mavericks 12.99
Fri & Sat only
ONLY
Year end Clearance
JEANS UNLIMITED
Located 2 Miles South Of Mooresville, Hwy. 115, Adjoining Hair Styles Unlimited

BARBER STYLING
featuring:
Precision Hair Cuts
Razor Cuts
Perms
Coloring
Blow-Drying
Beard Design
892-1933
Owner & Stylist: Gary Bailey
Main St., Cornelius (across from Western Auto).