March 21, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

Lance Sisco and Phil Gilbert lunge for the finish line. (Trey Thies)

Track has stars, no depth

By VAN BECK
Sports Editor

Quality individual performers but little team depth characterize the 1980 version of Wildcat track. Coach Karl Kremser’s team has athletes who should challenge Davidson school records, but depth in each of the eighteen events is critical for Davidson teams. Kremser noted that “even big schools find it difficult to field three strong entries in each of the eighteen disciplines of a track and field meet.” Such a dilemma has forced nearly all schools away from dual meets toward larger relay competitions, simply because relay meets, which involve a number of competing schools, allow individuals to specialize in one’s strongest events as opposed to “doubling up” in order to score team points. Davidson is no exception.

Kremser has dropped two dual competitions normally run in the spring and instead has scheduled the Appalachian State Classic and the Carolina SC Championships this year. This is a blow to Sisco, who is on the injured list. Ken Fleming and Ray Sinclair must come through. Fleming is stronger in the shot put. Dave Nichols should score in the hammer. The javelin will be one of Davidson's stronger events this season with good performances expected from Svend Pedersen, Mike Heinig, and Paul Mainella. In the jumps, Sisco and Gilbert should be the top Cat entrants in the high jump and long jump respectively.

Tuesday afternoon in a home meet, Davidson nipped High Point College and wasted Wingate College for two victories in a tri-meet. The scores stood.

B&BB prove they can dish it out like Ann Landers

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

A close friend of ours by the name of Ann Landers informed us of the unfortunate problem of her receiving excess mail at her office. She asked if she could forward some of her mail to us at B and BB Inc. We told her we were happy to handle some of her troubled writers and that we were eminently qualified to do so, being that we all are working hard at getting our B.A. in Abnormal Psychology under the tutelage of Tom Cartmill, Richard Burts, and Bartholomew Brockway.

Coincidentally, a few of the myriad of letters Madame Landers sent us are applicable to today’s scene at Davidson College. May we be permitted to share some of these demented letters with you?... Thank you.

Dear Abigail van Brick Bros.,

I am a thick junior at Davidson College with an infinitesimally small GPA. But small talk aside, I was wondering how you sign up for President of SGA. I got some really super ideas—you wanna hear ‘em? You better, or I’ll kick your butt. Here are some of them.

1) Put a weight room in the library.
2) Incarcerate a new major sport.
3) Beer in the water fountains.
4) Another thing I’ve been thinking, sort of like, in Cincinnati we kind of do this and like the intramural fields with the girls with Chambers and you know the Post Office—and maybe like with us being more aggressive with more minor like we could lower the tuition as a result (all very sic).
5) Substantiate professors' salaries by letting ‘em do the grounds around here. I’ve always liked picking up loose trash; and I think they could make money and everybody would be really happy and would want to party.

Joby Marten
(See B&BB, page 11)

Add experience to your degree.

The world can be big and bad for some. For others, it looks much easier. Survival means different things to different people. Is it luck or preparation?

Preparation seems to be the key. Consider the leadership training and management skills you can develop in Army ROTC. The edge. That makes the difference that can put you ahead in the big, bad world of tough job competition.

You may be a sophomore. Or have just two years left. It’s not too late to add Army ROTC. And add management experience to your degree.

For more information contact:
CPT Neil Touchet
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170

Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.

Terrazzo Wallace and Phil Gilbert lead the Cat sprint nursing a tender hamstring. In a few weeks, Dick Jones mediates and 110 meter high hurdles. Jones, a junior, ran well in indoor meets and is in the best shape of his Davidson career, according to Coach Kremser. Decathlete Lance Sisco returns and will compete in the SC Championships this year.