4 January 18, 1980 — The Davidsonian — 9

Cats lose seventh of last eight games

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

The Davidson Wildcats took another step backwards Wednesday night with a 77-72 loss to the Citadel in Charleston. The Cats had a four-point lead right before the half and then upped their margin to 12 points shortly into the second period. But the Bulldogs' Randy Nesbitt sank three consecutive long-range field goals to set the Citadel on the road to their victory. Missed Davidson free throws and intentional fouls in the last minute accounted for the five-point loss.

Davidson has only two wins in the conference now, with only Appalachian State below them in the standings. The Cats are 5-9 on the season thus far with upcoming conference games against UT-Chattanooga Saturday night and Marshall Monday night, both in Johnston Gym.

With the loss, the Cats are 1-7 in the last eight games, but head coach Eddie Biedenbach feels the team is playing better and with more intensity since the holiday break. "We don’t play with consistency," he said. "We have periods of intensity, and then we have periods where we break down." He complimented the offensive play by saying, "We can score on anybody. A couple of guys will have good nights, but we need consistent play from the others to supplement them."

Defense for the Cats is another story, however. "We’re getting better," Biedenbach said, "but we’re a long way from being good."

Davidson opened up against Furman last Saturday night in Greenville with a charge and had the Paladins down 20-10 with about nine minutes gone in the first half, but timely Furman substitutions and strategy changes proved to be too much for the Cats; Furman outscored the Cats 84-68 and remained unbeaten in the Southern Conference.

Earlier last week, V.M.I. took advantage of some crucial Davidson mistakes such as missed free throws and turnovers to snatch a conference game away in overtime 70-69. V.M.I. had previously been a Davidson victim 74-73 in Lexington.

Biedenbach felt before the Christmas holidays that he would know where his team stood after the second V.M.I. game. He was hoping the Cats would find themselves in a position to challenge for the Southern Conference crown. But the holiday games didn’t go the way he’d hoped. Davidson dropped conference games to Furman, 91-81, and Marshall, 115-97, as well as two non-conference losses to Baylor and North Carolina State.

The game with the Wolfpack provided the most excitement of the year thus far. Davidson lost the New Year’s Eve contest 66-63 after a tremendous battle in the Coliseum. DiBenedetto led the Cats that night with 20 points. The only break in the losing spell over the break came with a 72-66 win over East Tennessee State. "We beat a good team," Biedenbach said, "and played a real good game."

Despite the losses, Biedenbach felt this game was turning the team around for the season after the "almost" effort against N.C. State. But the V.M.I. game was pivotal. The goal before Christmas remains the same, however. TheCats have eight more conference games, and Biedenbach feels there’s still a chance to get in the upper ranks of the Southern Conference. “It’s going to be tough to get into good position for the playoffs, though,” he admitted. Two crucial games this week will determine the reality of the goal. The Cats will have the advantage of a Johnston Gym crowd in Saturday night’s game with U.T.—Chattanooga and next Monday’s against Marshall. Both games have 7:30 tip-offs. It will be the first meeting of the season with Chattanooga. Marshall, however, has already proven to be difficult in a 115-97 win on their home court. “Teams have been shooting great percentages against us,” Biedenbach said. “This points up how we need to get better, but it also shows that teams are mentally preparing for Davidson. That’s a good reflection on us. They no longer think of Davidson as a sure win.”

KING OF PIZZA GOT THE MID-JANUARY BLAHS? COME UP TO VISIT THE KING FOR A SPEEDY RECOVERY. KING OF PIZZA, INC. 2411 South Broad St - Phone 664-3080

Jamie Hall blocks a shot at the Coliseum. (Dave Love)

By CRAIG WHITE
Asst. Sports Editor

There’s a growing mood of optimism on the Davidson Wildcat swim team and deservedly so. “At this time, we’re definitely an improved team from last year. For this early in the season, our times are better, our morale is good, and our confidence is unquestionable,” said sophomore swimmer Mark Hammond. Confidence should be unquestionable, for the Davidson swimmers annihilated Augusta 83-30 and Emory 94-14 in a double dual meet Friday at UNCC. “The victory over Augusta was especially pleasing for a number of reasons. One reason was the fact that Augusta now has full scholarships for seven swimmers while Davidson does not,” continued Hammond. Other reasons for optimism were the first-place performances of Mike Schremmer in the 500 and 1000 yd. freestyle, by Craig Finger in the 100 yd. free and the 200 yd. individual medley, and by Mark Tommerdahl in the 200 yd. fly.

How could the swim team possibly improve on its resounding victory over Augusta and Emory? The next day, the team drove to Greenville, S.C. to challenge the Furman Paladins. Hammond admits that “swimming at Furman could have been a letdown, but we were still motivated after Friday.” Davidson’s Schremmer again won the 500 and 1000 yd. freestyle, while Warren Beck captured the 200 freestyle and 200 backstroke; Rick Williams placed first in the 200 back and Tommerdahl continued his streak of 200 fly victories.

Perhaps the most important challenge of the early season will come two weekends from now when Davidson swims Appalachian, the Citadel, Georgia Tech, and Wake Forest at Charlotte. This weekend the team is on the road to swim against Washington and Lee and VMI. “To do well in those,” says Hammond, “Davidson needs the continued support of its improving swimmers. We were all surprised at the vast improvement of Felix Gerdes, Johnny Edwards, Steve Lewis, and Tony Smith. We'll need them during the next two weeks.”