_‘¥<October 31, 1980% The Davidsonian_

**At 2 a.m., things “are just starting to pick up” at Ham and Eggs**

By JEFF HERRIN
Features Editor

“I didn’t know anyone would be here!” peeped a distraught voice from the back seat as we pulled into the Ham and Eggs parking lot. I, too, was a bit surprised to find the small Cornelius restaurant so crowded at such a late hour, even though I had been warned beforehand. Nonetheless, I was determined to have some legendary Ham and Eggs food, and my editor had me quite excited about chronicling “the Ham and Eggs experience,” so I went about convincing my companions to go in with me.

John Krotchko was ready and willing, but Cindy Faulkenberry, owner of the peeping distraught voice, required no little persuasion. Perhaps because she wore only a bathrobe, perhaps not. In any case, we managed to drag her in. We pressed through the crowd to the only available table. (I don’t think anyone even noticed Cindy—I assured her that it was because her red bathrobe so resembled an evening gown). A smiling waitress appeared immediately, gave us each a menu, and went off to get us some coffee.

She returned a few moments later and began to chat. Cindy’s bathrobe caught her attention (at last!), and she assumed immediately that Cindy was being initiated. No, said Cindy, “I just expected this place to be, uh, empty.” The waitress assured Cindy that her attire was not so unusual: “Why just last week, there were four people in here wearing nothing but pajamas.” Maybe they were escapees from the SPE pajama party.

As she bustled off to get our food ready, I began to take in my surroundings—this was my first visit to “Waffle World,” as some affectionately call it. I immediately noticed the wide variety of people coming and going—more coming than going. A group of students were carrying on quietly at one of the other tables. A trio of truck drivers in blue overalls stood in one corner in sharp contrast to a group of men and women in three-piece suits and evening gowns. The grill behind the counter sizzled steadily, competing with a jukebox which blared “Cupid, I’ve loved you for a long time.”

The waitress returned with our orange juice, homemade biscuits, country ham, grits, and eggs. I mentioned how busy the joint seemed and she lit into what was apparently one of her favorite topics. “Oh, this is nothing. You just wait around ’til about two or three. Why, that’s when we start doing the real business. Things are just starting to pick up.” Why? “This is Saturday night, and people want to eat. This is it—all the way to Virginia.” (She also told why Ham and Eggs accepts student checks only with alpha numbers—“That way, the whole school gets on your ass.”)

Business was picking up. A large group of young people came in (staggered, actually) and leaned against the wall opposite our table, waiting for a place to sit. John asked one if they were Davidson students.

“What? Everyone knows Davidson students never get drunk. Especially underage freshmen,” one of them answered. Of course not. When pressed further, one of their party admitted that they had been at the freshman Halloween Party. “And boy, did they have a lot of beer! After that there was nothing to do but come out here.” And it wasn’t even Halloween.

John, Cindy, and I turned our conversation to the question at hand—Why were all these people here, at this time of night? John, poor thing, insisted I take the standard reporter approach and aggressively accost someone. I agreed to try it and went over to a Willie Nelson-looking character. He impressed me as having just left an “Urban Cowboy” party, with dingo boots, head-to-toe denim, and an alligator skin hat.

“Evening,” I said.
“Evening,” he conceded, peering out from underthe brim of his hat. “Excuse me, but I’m doing a sorta report on why people come to Ham and Eggs. I wondered if I might talk to you for a minute.” “I reckon ya already are,” he replied. After a moment, I regained my composure and asked him why he was there. His response? “I was hungry.” So much for John and his methodical approach. I was ready to try the conversational approach, so I looked about for a likely candidate. I spotted one of the well-dressed men who had come in earlier with the ladies in evening gowns. He was standing alone at the moment, so I walked over, my worst mistake of the evening.

“Evening, sir,” say I. “Good evening. How are you?” he asks. I respond appropriately, commenting on the weather and other trivialities. He tells me that he has been at a Legionnaires dance over in Huntersville with these other folks, and is just stopping by to get something to eat. No, he doesn’t stop by here often—is the food any good? I recommend it, realizing that this was going to be of little use: he never knew the place was here before tonight. It appeared I would have to talk to someone else, but first I had to break off the conversation with this guy, who was getting uncomfortably friendly. I tried to excuse myself, and was promptly propositioned with a “don’t you want to play around?” Sorry, but no. You meet ALL TYPES, it is said, and so be it. I looked for John and Cindy, who had started toward the cash register (I think Cindy was now drawing more attention—the robe stood out so), and we made our escape.

Film Review
By NICK GRAHAM
Staff Writer

This week the Fine Film Committee continues its excellent season of features by leading directors, showing one of the undisputed milestones in the development of Western cinema. Fritz Lang’s Metropolis (Germany, 1923), made before the director went to Hollywood, was one of the first major features to make an intelligent use of special effects in the sci-fi genre, and is an indispensable precursor of 2001, the Star Wars series, and Close Encounters. Set in a not-too-distant future, the film is a massive, resonant political fable of the need for individualism in a dehumanized and oppressive industrial society. In the topmost levels of the city, a leisured few control the labor and production of the mass of mankind, who are condemned to unremitting labor below among exhausting, demanding machines. When the curious son of one of the oppressors descends to this hell and discovers the inhuman reality of the proles’ working lives, the seeds of revolution are sown. To the tune of a perfectly judged modern electronic soundtrack, the struggle for control of the city is carried on among spectacular sets featuring (for the period) sophisticated effects.

As the ruling class attempts to manipulate the rebels by the judicious use of science in the form of Rotwang, a particularly manic version of the mad-scientist character, and by sex in the form of his chief creation, an attractive robot much given to erotic gyrations, Lang’s imagery becomes increasingly profound. The sequences of the Seven Deadly Sins in the Cathedral and the vision of Moloch are effortlessly awesome in their effect, and the film is worth seeing for this footage alone. Metropolis is a consistently riveting and thought-provoking piece of cinema: I cannot urge you too strongly to make a date to see this important and justly-celebrated film.

Metropolis will be shown in Love Wednesday, November 5 at 8:00 p.m.

SGA Phone-A-Thon will be held the first two weeks of winter term December 2-4, 7-11 from 6 pm - 9:30 pm. We will need an abundant number of volunteers! If interested, contact your SGA senator. Check the ad next week.