6—The Davidsonian—October 31, 1980

Features

Retired Polish ambassador here for term

By JAMES BARRAT
Staff Writer

Many people talk about the Russians with fear and suspicion. But not Dr. W.W. Kulski, who is a visiting professor
here this term. He fears the Russians about as much as we fear the Baltimore Orioles. This familiarity is a
result of his career as an international diplomat. He has dealt with NATO and the Warsaw Pact countries, which has
taken him to both sides of the Iron Curtain.

A native of Poland, Kulski received his doctorate from the Paris School of Law in 1928 and remained in Paris
as a Polish diplomat until the German occupation of the city in 1940. In 1948, Kulski was appointed Minister of
Poland and negotiated the British-Polish Alliance, the document that served as the basis of Great Britain’s declaration of war against
Germany. But despite his work as Minister of Poland, Kulski found he was “just a civilian” when the Communist Party
gained control of Poland. He then decided to begin a second career in the United States, because if he had
returned to Poland and the Soviet regime he would have been “short-shaved, you know, when they cut your head off.”

Fortunately for those taking his seminar on Soviet foreign policy this term, Kulski did not return to Poland but retained
his head and came to this country in 1946. He began lecturing to universities and foreign relations councils, which led
to a professorship at the University of Alabama. Since then, Dr. Kulski has taught at Syracuse University, Tulane University, and
Duke University. He spent ten years at Duke as a James P. Duke Distinguished Professor of Political Science. Now in
retirement, Kulski occasionally leaves his Durham residence to conduct seminars as a visiting professor.

Biographical history aside, I asked Dr. Kulski about the Presidential election. “Governor Reagan is not a member of the Communist
party,” he assured me. Kulski agrees with Reagan in opposing the United States grain embargo on the Soviet Union. As
a political response to the Soviet involvement in Afghanistan, Dr. Kulski feels that this action was ineffective, as Reagan maintains,
because “the Russians will obtain grain from Canada, Argentina, and France... They will not suffer hunger because of the grain
embargo.” In fact, Kulski believes “there is danger for the American farmer if the Russians get used to other sources
of grain supply. The farmers will lose a large part of their former market in the Soviet Union.”

On the subject of the nuclear arms race, Dr. Kulski feels that it is a “matter of common sense to
ratify Salt II,” as Carter upholds, because an active arms race would only cause the Soviet populace to tighten their
belts as they already are accustomed to doing for military expenditures. An active arms race would force American taxpayers to
make some probably unaffordable sacrifices as well.

In light of the Soviet movement into economic interest areas, such as sub-Saharan Africa and the Persian Gulf, I asked
Kulski if a military conflict with the United States was likely.

By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Writer

Nee Ningy is music. Nee Ningy is color, life and tradition. Nee Ningy rocks you and presents a cross-section of
folk music’s heritage. Best of all, it is an intimate experience that brings smiles to the faces of young and
old.

The color of the group’s show in the 900 Room last weekend is what hits you at first. A large
banner behind the group throws bright blue, orange, pink and purple shades at the audience. Pictures and ornaments adorn the
stage. The performers, dressed in leather vests and jackets, bright T-shirts, and glitter, begin a performance that...He said in the
foreseeable future a direct U.S.-Soviet confrontation is unlikely. The Russians would probably support a smaller power in a conflict with
the U.S. rather than instigate a direct assault against U.S. forces. With the inevitable stockpiling of nuclear arms on both
sides, such a direct conflict could prove mutually fatal. But fortunately, the Soviets, like the U.S., “would rather jaw-jaw than
war-war,” Kulski said.

Kulski said he and his wife are enjoying their stay in Davidson’s VIP house. He appreciates Davidson as it is
a peaceful change from the busy streets of Durham. Davidson, he believes, is conducive to the intellectual pursuits that we
American students excel at. After his stay at Davidson, Kulski has no immediate plans to continue teaching and will return
to retirement until another offer to conduct a seminar interests him.

The words: “Nee Ningy.” The Nee Ningy band came into being when three friends celebrated Mardi Gras by playing music
in the streets of New Orleans. Ted Porter on mandolin, Rachel Turner on fiddle, and Chris Turner on harmonica took
their dog, Georgia, with them on a march through the town. Georgia has been the group’s sideshow. The group has
since added Robbie Phillips on the tub bass and Mance Grady on goatskin drums.

“We started on the street and that determined our style; we played beyond the microphones,” says Ted. The audience is
a vital part of the Nee Ningy experience. The group is known for marching single file through the audience while
playing an Irish tune, or Chris Turner will hop out in the middle of a song and take a stirring
harmonica break amidst the ecstatic crowd. People dance and clap their hands. There is a high energy flow between the
band and the audience. But the sound of the group is what lures people in the first place. Nee Ningy
plays traditional music. English and Irish fiddle tunes, drinking songs and ballads, Chicago blues, and medieval compositions make up the
group's repertoire.

“We can play any tradition we like within our framework — we make the tradition sound,” says Ted. Rachel Turner
defines “ningy”: “It’s a real ‘trebley’ sound, with the fiddle, mandolin, and harp (harmonica).” Other instruments, such as the bagpipes,
a “banjo-mandolin,” and an assortment of wooden horns and flutes add to this “ningy” sound. Ted adds that the tub
bass is crucial to the band’s versatility. Besides providing a unifying thread to their English and Irish tunes, it allows
the band to carry off the heavy sound of electric blues without electronics. “The tub is a primitive instrument, and
it rocks,” says Ted.

The band finds strength in its unique sound. Ted admits that there are few groups around like the Nee Ningy
band. Its very lively performances and “ningy” sound have given the group its high renown. In the midst of all
this, it is the strength and variety of each member’s musical background that frees the group to explore different genres
of folk music. Chris Turner, for instance, is a former European harmonica champion. From London, he brings a number of
English ballads, and his experience in Europe has brought the group a wealth of folk music from Germany, Switzerland, and
Italy. Chris’ competition in Europe has sharpened his sizzling harmonica solos. He presents his own compositions alone on stage. Some
of these compositions are cuts from his solo album, “Harmonics.” He and his wife, Rachel, have also traveled in Africa
exploring the music of that continent’s cultures. Rachel, also a unique musician, (See Nee Ningy, page 8)
