Lack of Student Voice Produces Stingy Alumni

Rick Jenkins: As an alum of Davidson, it is not hard to see that our percentage of alumni giving is not what it should be. At Amherst, 53% of those alumni who were solicited donated; at Washington and Lee, the percentage for 1978-79 was 36%; and at Williams—a school with which Davidson is incessantly compared—alumni giving with athletics reached 62% last year. Davidson's level of alumni giving—31% with Wildcat Club donations, 28% without them—can hardly stand alongside these other schools. Why isn’t alumni giving at Davidson higher? This is a difficult question to address since many of the factors influencing it are qualitative. Davidson’s giving program, however, is afflicted by some easily discernible problems, which I shall mention, but there is one rather serious impediment which many administrators probably do not see—the schism that exists at Davidson between the Trustees and administration on one side and the faculty and students on the other.

The alumni giving program, as it is organized now, is a relatively recent innovation at Davidson. The system of class chairpersons and agents conducting a large-scale mail campaign to solicit members of their class has been employed for the last 25 years or so, whereas the schools mentioned previously have a longer tradition of calling upon their alumni in this way. Some of these schools, according to Living Endowment Director Lee Willingham, also impress upon each incoming class the importance of alumni giving so that a definite “competitiveness” is fostered between each class. Davidson, Willingham said, does not believe in this approach. The only other significant difference in procedure between our program and these others is the extent to which telethons are used. Some of these institutions conduct more telethons—which have proven benefits on alumni giving—than Davidson; the College has not run a telethon since 1978, though one is being organized now for early December.

Certainly, the attitude with which a graduate leaves his school will influence his decision to give. Does Davidson graduate more people with affected attitudes about the school than other institutions? This, of course, is unanswerable, but some recent events on campus, most notably the Linden affair of five years ago, the WDAV takeover two years ago, and several recent faculty tenure votes, have had more negative than positive effects on the student body—and others as well. It is impossible, however, to ascertain if these factors affect alumni giving. Certainly, every school has problems unique to it that will naturally alienate some people. So far, such events as these have not caused alumni giving to drop, as it has hovered around the 23% level for the past several years now, though they may have played a role in preventing any potential increase.

Lee Willingham has a personal theory, one which I think is an accurate assessment of part of the problem: a lot of people are under the impression that Davidson is very well off financially. Although our endowment is sizable at $22 million, it by no means qualifies us as well off. Again, in relation to these schools with which we are so often compared, our endowment suffers. In fact, it can be said that Davidson’s endowment is low for its needs and its place as an academic institution of the highest standing. That this attitude is fairly prevalent is illustrated in the Church’s support of the school; N.C. Synod support last year amounted to $75,000 because they said our need was not as great as some other Synod institutions when it clearly was.

Even with the concentrated drive of the Living Endowment program over the last ten years, alumni giving at Davidson has not risen; this would lead one to believe that there must be forces capable of dulling even the increased efforts. I have mentioned some of the conventional reasons given for why alumni giving is not higher, and they are all probably related to the problem. But I think there must be a more deep-seated reason that people have failed to look for, and this I believe is the apparent divergence between Trustees/administration on one side and faculty/students on the other. In other words, I think the Trustees and administration of Davidson College as one body and faculty and students as another body are so...Polarized that it leads some students to graduate vowing never to give money to this school. It’s difficult to support this statement—there are no figures to cite—but it seems apparent to my eye that this situation exists. That the Trustees and administration are too insular seems to be a prevalent attitude on this campus. However, the problem is also aggravated by the fact that few students bother to approach the administration about policy decisions. There is too much of an abyss between these two bodies who both have a role in the life of the College; if there was more integration between them I think a greater number of students would leave Davidson with a better attitude about the College, or at least with the satisfaction that an attempt is being made to bridge a gap. I don’t know how this can be achieved; perhaps a student trustee is a starting point. But as the situation currently exists, alumni are being asked to give money to a school that allowed them only a minimal voice in shaping its policy while they were students. 

- Rick Jenkins is Opinions Editor for The Davidsonian.

Griffith explained that Allen (Continued from page 1). The Trustees, on the basis of admissions, would not have made a substantially stronger class,” he said. “I can envision a time when the Trustees will feel the need to bring this up for discussion again,” he said. Allen said students accepted on an equal access basis were “better qualified as a whole” than the men at the top of the waiting list. Overall, however, Griffith thinks the ratio is fair. “I can say in good conscience to women applicants that they are equal citizens here.” Allen and Hester feel the use of a ratio is inherently unfair. “We’re really concerned with the ethical implications,” Hester said. Allen said they would oppose any ratio—even fifty-fifty; equal access is the only acceptable policy. “If you’re consciously discriminating against anyone, you're going against a basic Christian ethic,” Allen said.

Griffith said there are national trends that may affect admissions policy. For example, more high school women and fewer men are applying to college, and the pool of potential college students nationwide is shrinking. However, Griffith said demographic trends may be key factors in setting the ratio. Allen, however, thinks trends of more women applying to college in general and to Davidson specifically show that a change in the ratio is “inevitable.”

According to figures compiled by the Admissions Office, 641 women applied to Davidson in 1980, compared to 614 in 1979, 528 in 1978, and 611 in 1977. Griffith said he ensured the “absolute confidentiality” of applicants’ files. He gave them cards that listed applicants’ class ranks, SAT scores, and file ratings only. He insisted they black out applicants’ names on the cards. “They were under their honor,” Griffith said. Allen and Hester said several students affiliated with NOW helped compile figures: Drew Davies, Aurie Hall, Julie Holding, Sally Neal, Diana Pierce, Kim Scott, and Anne Stanback.

Kincaid said he feels the defeat of North Carolina Democrats like Senator Robert Morgan and Representative Richardson Preyer is a direct reflection of the Carter-Reagan race. Kincaid predicts that Reagan will serve one term, after which a strong Democrat such as Ted Kennedy or Walter Mondale will be elected. Martin was not available for comment. Both men agreed during the campaign that the economy and federal defense were the primary issues in their campaign platforms. Martin attributes his victory to public support of his views on the economy and defense, according to the Charlotte Observer. Of the 998 people voting at the Davidson Town Hall, 603 cast votes for Carter and 296 for Reagan.