SETS

The Davidsonian—April 25, 1980

Spring football training is over but weight lifting goes on.
—Stephen Enniss

Because there’s a two-year Army ROTC program, in case you missed taking ROTC in your first two years of college, you'll have to work to catch up during the summer before your junior year. But in two years you'll earn about $2,900, more than half of which is tax-free. Then you'll earn an officer’s commission at the same time you earn a college degree. But mail the coupon now. Because by the time you’re a junior, it’ll be too late.

ARMY ROTC
Box 368 Davidson, NC 28036

Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.

Ms. 
Mr. 
Address 
City 
County 
State 
Zip 
Phone 
College Attending 
Graduation Date 

The Army ROTC Two-Year Program

An ex post facto on the career of Davidson’s Sara Womack seems appropriate. Womack, who was named twice to the NCAIAW All-State Team, ended her four-year stint with 18 Wildcat records. Not only is the Richmond, Va. senior Davidson’s career scoring leader with 1250 points, or 16.7 points a game, but she also is the career leader in categories as diverse as rebounds (601) and field goal attempts, not to mention career fouls. (She did play some defense too.)

Womack twice scored more than 30 points in a contest and during her junior year had ten 20-point efforts. Her senior year she tossed in 19.1 points per outing. Womack’s jersey was retired this past season and she was also named to the final 24 in All-American consideration.

Considering the bevy of records she owns, Sara Womack’s name should remain in the Davidson record books for quite some time.
—VAN BECK

Individuals shine at Furman

Davidson trackmen ventured to Greenville, S.C. this past weekend for the Furman Invitational and registered several strong performances. With the Southern Conference meet upcoming, the Furman meet was employed by Coach Karl Kremser’s charges as a tune-up to gauge conditioning.

Middle distance man John Hoots left little doubt as to his conditioning heading into the Conference meet. Hoots, a prodigious interval trainer, turned in a school record 1500 meter run with a 3:58.9 clocking. He cut six seconds off his personal best in dipping under the four-minute mark for the first time. Coach Kremser feels that Hoots has the potential to get under 3:55 this weekend; a time which could earn him a place at the Conference Championships.

The weightmen should also be noted. Dave Nichols reaped a second place in the hammer, Ken Fleming uncorked a sixth place effort in the discus, and Paul Mainella finished likewise in the javelin. With strong performances this weekend, each could gain a place in the top six in the Southern Conference.

Hurdlers Lance Sisco and Dick Jones also placed despite subpar performances. Jones tied for fourth in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles while Sisco finished sixth in the high hurdles. Jones would seem the Cats’ best bet for a high place in the Conference meet this weekend.

In the team competition, Davidson placed ninth; South Carolina came out on top in the meet, which included several respected track schools.
—VAN BECK

Bball signs coach, 2 players

This time of year, Coach Eddie Biedenbach’s staff is on the move in search of young talent to bolster next year’s squad. Biedenbach’s staff is minus one aide, however. Graduate assistant Rick Barnes has moved on to become first assistant at George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia. Barnes, who helped at Davidson for two years after graduating from Lenoir-Rhyne where he played, will assist head coach Joe Harrington at George Mason.

Biedenbach has signed two players thus far with several more expected as the national signing date nears. Within the past week, the Sports Information Office announced the inking of 6-4 wingman Kenny Wilson of Hope Mills, N.C., and 6-3 John Gullickson of Orland Park, Illinois. Wilson, an All-State player, led his team to a berth in the state finals (4A) in North Carolina. Gullickson, a second guard, also earned All-State honors, averaging 22 points this season.
—VAN BECK