| 8—The Davidsonian— February 8, 1980

Sports Scripts

Wrestling

Last Saturday, Davidson’s wrestlers split a three-way meet, defeating Hampden-Sydney (40-21) while losing to Lynchburg (15-33). Heavyweight Rob King paced the Cats with pins over both opponents; Tim Brotherton (167 lbs.) and James Young (118 lbs.) also won their matches.

Davidson’s season record now stands at 2-4 with the other victory coming at the expense of Catawba. Co-captains King and Mike Garfinkel (158 lbs.) lead the team with 11-1 and 10-6 records, respectively.

The next competition for the Wildcats comes this Saturday as they travel to Greenville, S.C. to face the Furman Paladins.

—DAVID DONALDSON

Rifle Team

It was a disappointing weekend for Davidson riflery as the Cat marksmen dropped a match to Appalachian State, 1270-1249. John Parham once again paced the team with a fine 266 total while Pat Stuart was second for Davidson with 264, his best tally of the season. Robbie Kirkendol, John Hartman, and George Webster rounded out the top five.

The match was the first ever on Appalachian State’s new range but Davidson wasn’t up to the occasion. The team will, however, get another shot this Saturday when they travel to Lexington for a tough one which includes host VMI and Virginia.

—VAN BECK

Track

Several Davidson track athletes will compete in an indoor meet this weekend in Lynchburg, Virginia. The meet, hosted by Lynchburg College, will also include Washington & Lee and The Citadel.

Davidson entrants include: Lance Sisco in the hurdles and jumping events, Dick Jones in the hurdles and 600-yard dash, John Hoots and Robert Frierson in the middle distances, Terrazo Wallace in the sprints, and Bart Landess in the two mile. Hoots, in particular, has been working hard and should be well prepared.

Little emphasis is placed upon the indoor season by most Cat trackmen and this weekend's meet should prove valuable with regard to experience; Davidson doesn’t have access to an indoor track to prepare for winter competitions and therefore must use competition to prepare for the Southern Conference Indoor championships.

—VAN BECK

Swim Team

There was little to cheer about last Friday at William and Mary where the Cat swim team was downed 63-45. Coach Pat Miller summed up the disappointment prevalent on the team: “We just swam poorly and certainly not as well as we could have. Our potential was equal to William and Mary's, but we just didn’t come through.” There were a few bright spots, however—Mark Tommerdahl won the 1000 yd. free, Mike Schremmer took the 500 yd. free, and Frank Bright captured the 1 meter diving event.

Davidson swimmers are looking forward to two meets this weekend at UNCC—Friday at 4:00 pm against Georgia State and Saturday at 11:00 am against College of Charleston.

—CRAIG WHITE

Another outstanding job by

BARGER CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

“Good Builders Since 1925”

M.A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30

Ben L. Millsaps
Exec. Vice President & Secretary

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

Thursday 6:00 - until
Pizza by the slice .65

Friday 6:00 - until
Saturday 6:00 - until

Arriving This Week—
Wide Screen TV

Last week’s win-a-keg still has not been claimed and is waiting to be drunk by the party with 25 coupons.

A new contest begins every Monday.