Newtie Johnston shares a few secrets of Davidson's pre-coed days
By JAMES BARRAT
Staff Correspondent

Sandwiched between M&M’s and the Duke Power office, straight across from Concord Road, stands a house that stores a lifetime
of photographed history and personal memories of the town of Davidson’s past. Its owner, however, keeps with her more memories
than could any building. She is Mrs. Newtie Diel Johnston, older than she'd like to say and, as she told
me, “Independent!”

“We were like one big family,” she says of Davidson students of ages past, who would come to the Johnston
home and generally raise the roof as Newtie and her parents banged out tunes on the piano and guitar. “They
were awfully wild when I was a young girl.” And there was dancing, too. “You could get put out of
church for that!” But her parents didn’t mind, so the living room became a dance hall for the Davidson gents
and their dates. “Otherwise, they’d have to go to Charlotte.”

Women were a rarity around the campus in those pre-coeducation days, and, as she says, our Davidson predecessors were quick
to show their appreciation if one happened to wander around. “You'd think the town was on fire if a girl
set foot on the campus!” She also recalls that in order to correspond with a town girl by mail, the
interested Davidson man had to first get permission from the College president.

To describe Mrs. Johnston as a “town girl” would be inaccurate. She was educated at the Statesville Female College and
worked as a nurse for a time before marrying Harris A. Johnston and moving to Ohio, where he was an
engineer for the American Bridge Company. “The ‘A’ stands for Alfonso, but he was too embarrassed to tell anyone,” she
confides.

This house was built by Newtie Johnston's father in 1908. The two returned to Davidson in 1956 to live in
the house where she grew up, the one on Main Street that her father, B.C. Diel, built. In addition to
this house, Mr. Diel built many other homes around Davidson as well as the buildings that are now M&M’s and
the dress shop beside it. He owned much property in Davidson, in particular the buildings from the Peregrine House to
M&M’s.

“Wild as bucks!” says Mrs. Johnston of the Davidson men of yesteryear. One of their pranks, she remembers, was the
time some Davidson “bucks” put old Doc Harding’s horse-cart on the dome of Chambers in the wee hours of the
morning, leaving his horse in his classroom. She related that a darker, but more practical, nocturnal practice among the students
enrolled in Davidson’s now-extinct medical school was that of snatching bodies for dissection. “As soon as they heard...

“Ol’ Bogie” keeps his relevance as well as his charm
By ROBERT BOWIE
Staff Writer

1941. The U.S. lurches into war. The memory of unemployment lines still stings. The people look for an unsentimental hero
for an unsentimental time. Unmoved by women, unintimidated by guns and claiming to only be interested in money, he strides
across the screen. The name is Bogart, Humphrey Bogart.

John Huston’s The Maltese Falcon rushes in a new era of detective stories. Lovers coldly betray each other in this
film at the sight of a dollar. Sam Spade’s partner gets gunned down one windy night. Spade’s response? He wants
to go back to bed. Spade’s grin shines with cynicism, acknowledging the evil that surrounds him in the fallen world
of modern San Francisco.

The Maltese Falcon tells of a giant, amoral treasure hunt in which each character reveals his gutless egotism. Spade appears
to be the most amoral of all until the end. At that point, Huston shows the hollowness of material values
and the strength of moral ones. The Maltese Falcon becomes a parable for our day, one that entertains more than
it preaches.

The war burns on. The literate read Hemingway. The illiterate watch Bogart. That face, carved in stone, mouths lines in...

(Continued from page 2)
“Even if we were able to double that first figure, it would be far inferior to the second,” he added.
“It’s also important to note that there weren’t enough students in the past going directly into the job market to
justify a large number of interviewers. Before this year only 35 people came to us looking for work. This year
over 100 have already come in. Now that the numbers are there, we can bring in more recruiters.”

Terry noted that “When I asked an Atlanta banker several months ago about sending interviewers he said he thought Casablanca
that would be clichés on the lips...of any other actor. Camus somewhere in France starts to write L’Etranger, a novel
with a hero as indifferent to the outside as Bogart. Mad scientists somewhere are designing the atomic bomb. In the
mushroom cloud at Hiroshima, the old, simplistic humanism of the 19th century will die at the sight of 100,000 ghastly
bodies. In Bogart’s eyes, that universe was already dead. Howard Hawks’ The Big Sleep continues where The Maltese Falcon left
off. Why worry that one of the murders goes unsolved? Bogart maintains his stoicism as he stalks a killer in
a wealthy and respected household. Money corrupts America in The Big Sleep, putting mother against child and friend against friend.
Bogart solves the crime in cold blood and yet somehow manages to see that justice is done. A line from
Thomas Pynchon summarizes the Bogart attitude towards life: “Be cool, but care.” In a universe which we did not make
and can do little to change, what other attitude should we hold? The Big Sleep and The Maltese Falcon still
speak as truly as the day they were first released. The Big Sleep and The Maltese Falcon will be playing
at the Visualite Theatre on Oct. 5-7.

Davidson people went to grad school. We obviously have to get out the word that things have changed.” A major
problem in scheduling recruiters is the breadth of student interests. “Out of the 100 forms returned to us from seniors
this year, only 20 were interested in business and finance,” Wood said. “It’s hard to ask recruiters to come to
speak to only one or two students in a fairly restricted field. It’s not so hard for those with business
interest but when people are interested in such different things, it’s difficult to take a mass approach.” Growing student interest
in corporate job placement has already caused changes within the Center. “We are committed to doubling the number of recruiters
here this year,” Wood said. “We also are introducing a Mentor program, where students will be given the opportunity to
establish alumni contacts in a given field to obtain advice and support. Getting hooked into this Good Buddy system is
important, since 85% of all jobs are not advertised.” Wood also mentioned a number of panels and seminars to help
the student cope with the working world after graduation.

...that a body had died, they’d go there that night and dig it up,” she told me. Surprised in the
act, two Davidson seniors had been forced to abandon one such corpse near the gravesite. When they returned to school,
the two recruited a third student to retrieve it. He went on horseback and sat the corpse in front of
him like a passenger. The unlucky med student was caught by dawn as he rode into Davidson, but saved himself
by repeatedly yelling “Sit up!” and “Don’t pretend, you’re drunk!” to the corpse, convincing the awakening town that he was
escorting an inebriated pal back home.

When Mrs. Johnston returned to Davidson in 1956 it was “like coming home to a different town.” The students she
had once known were gone, but they still come back to see her sometimes. She used to know every professor
at Davidson, but now there are only a few that she’s met. A larger student body and the beginning of
coed enrollment has wrought changes. “The boys are younger than then, more interested in the College than in the town.
I just don’t know them anymore,” she says. The big, old house is a lot quieter than when music echoed
through it and there was dancing in the living room. “I’ve never lived in Davidson since I came back,” she
told me, “you know what I mean.” But despite the passage of time, there is still a yet inexhausted supply
of life and vitality behind Mrs. Johnston’s clear, bright eyes. She paints beautifully, though she’s never had a lesson, and
her artwork, mostly landscapes, hangs in her sitting room and around various portraits of her family. She’s alone now—her husband
and two daughters are dead—but she doesn’t lack for company from around the town, as she always has a ready
wit and is the most knowledgeable keeper of the town’s past. So if you have a minute sometime, and want
to trade it for a few years of Davidson’s past, stop in where the two magnolias arch over the sidewalk,
just before M&Ms. I’m sure you’ll benefit from this singularly enjoyable historian.

The Hair Cottage
Creative hair cutting for men and women
styling - blow cuts - perms - reconditioning
exclusive pro-care products
owner/stylist: Jane Schenck
1757 E. Rocky River Road
892-5107
by appointment only
