The 1980 college bowl team is Bob Evans, John Boggess, Tim Newcomb, and Julie Gibert. (Trey Thies)

January 18, 1980—The Deviled is Lloyd choses 80 College Bowl 3 now soliciting practice 7 tior

By TOM ROTH
Staff Writer

“They use questions the way a Cadillac uses gas.” Who are they? The 1980 Davidson College Bowl team: John Boggess, Julie Gibert, Bob Evans, team captain Tim Newcomb, and alternate Jim Crane. Newcomb, a junior English major from Asheville, North Carolina, is the only returning member of last year’s team. He has improved since last year and will give a formidable performance again. Junior Evans is a freshman hall counselor.

Placement office exposes Charlotte medical scene to students

By KENT DYER
Staff Writer

Is there a particular job you would like to look into over Spring Vacation? Ken Wood, in the Experiential Programs Office, helped Susan Casper and me locate a three-day externship at the Miller Orthopedic Clinic in Charlotte over Christmas Break. It was a great way for us to learn a little about the practice of group medicine in a short period of time. Ken usually tries to place students with Davidson alumni in the student’s specific field of interest. I grew up in a small town where the General Practitioner treated everything from runny noses to kidney disorders, and I wanted to see what it would be like to subspecialize in a particular aspect of medicine. With this idea in mind, Ken decided to contact Dr. Angus McBryde, an Orthopedic Surgeon and Davidson Trustee, in Charlotte. Within a week after our conversation with Ken, Susan and I received word from McBryde that he looked forward to seeing us over Christmas.

Charlotte proved to be an excellent place to study, both because of its close proximity to Davidson, and its large size affords access to the latest medical technology. McBryde expected a lot out of us, a lot more than I had originally expected myself. We began rounds at 7:30 each morning and clung to his heels until 5:00 in the evening. In the mornings McBryde arranged for us to scrub with him in the Operating Room of Memorial Hospital. After surgery we were whisked away in his blue van to Presbyterian Hospital where we followed him on patient rounds until lunch. In the afternoon we donned lab coats and sat in on office examinations.

The main thing that impressed us was the fast pace at which the group of nine subspecialists at the Miller Clinic was able to operate. At least three physicians were on call at the Clinic during the day, and it was not unusual for each of them to see forty patients in one afternoon. Each member of the group specialized in treating one particular aspect of Orthopedics. Dr. McBryde dealt primarily with athletic injuries and total hip replacement, while another doctor attended to hand problems. An extern is assured of little rest when there are that many doctors working together under one roof. Whenever Susan and I stepped out for a few minutes to catch our breath we would be accosted and dragged off to see another set of X-rays. Our medical education was made complete by an X-ray technician named Sam Williams who took it upon himself to tutor us on the “unusual” cases he had seen in his seventeen years at Miller Clinic. When we had seen our fill of backaches Sam would suddenly appear from the file room with a smile on his face, and we knew that we were in for a special treat. It’s amazing how a gory picture of a broken hip prosthesis inside a man’s pelvis can brightenyour day. The secret to the success of our particular externship was working with people like Dr. McBryde who really enjoyed teaching. Dr. McBryde was flattered that we had asked to accompany him, and he made a special effort to make our schedule exciting. It's a shame more students don’t take advantage of the unique opportunity we have of working with friends of Davidson. There are alumni in most any career field who would be delighted to take a student under their wings for a few days. If you have a particular career goal interest, see Ken Wood. Even if you don’t have a specific idea in mind, he has a file cabinet full of past externships and job opportunities that may give some inspiration.

THE HAIR COTTAGE
Creative hair cutting for men and women
Styling - blow cuts - perms
(exclusive pro-care products)
January special
1757 Rocky River Road
892-5107 by appointment only
Reconditioning 25% off any hair service with student I.D.

Union committee chairmanships open
Interviews for students interested in Union Committee chairmanships will begin Monday, January 21. Sign-up sheets are at the Union desk. The fifteen committees are: fine films, speakers, cultural events, minorities, gallery, college bowl, arts and crafts, poetry, dorm social, dance, outing, intimate performances, games, concert, and pop films. All have chairmanships open. Each chairman works with members of the committee to plan and produce specific programs. They also coordinate these programs with those of other Union committees and campus groups. Union President Julie Holding commented that “a variety of people” are needed to plan events and help improve current campus programming.

Gibert is a junior history major from Lynchburg, Virginia. Says Professor Charles Lloyd, the team coach, “I am especially glad to have her on the team.” Senior Boggess from Bedford, Virginia adds the viewpoint of a political science major to the team. Alternate Jim Crane is a pre-med major from Old Hickory, Tennessee. There are no trivia buffs on this team, says Lloyd. The members are united by a common love for learning. Last week 24 players from the 33 intramural college bowl teams were asked to try out for this team. Detailed statistics on such things as number of answers right, number of attempts, and speed at answering were kept. The final decisions were made Thursday with help from these statistics. Lloyd was aided in his deliberations by German Professor Hansford Epes, Physics Professor Robert Manning, English Professor Randy Nelson, and former team member James Gibert (brother of Julie Gibert).

The team’s first match will be at the Southern regional tournament February 14-16 at UNCC. The Southern Region includes schools from Virginia, North and South Carolina, Kentucky, and Tennessee. Lyman Collins, Union College Bowl Coordinator, says that the College Union plans to organize rides to this tournament. Lloyd said that there was a possibility that the college would hold an invitational tournament the weekend before the regionals but these plans are still vague. Lloyd expects the UNC-CH team to be our toughest competition in this region: it has a berth at the Nationals already due to a victory in a radio tournament sponsored by CBS. Strong student and faculty support of this program is evident. Over 130 students were involved in the intramural competition and the faculty question writing, coaching, and announcing has added to the strong program. He is very grateful and needs more good writing practice questions for the team. Lloyd commented, “They’re rallying round and sharing questions. They use them the way locomotives use coal.” Contact Collins, Epes, Manning, Nelson, or Lloyd.

SMITH’S FLOWER SHOP
302 Smith Circle