by a tragic fire. Funds were raised quickly by the community to put him back in business. The town cared. New housing was sponsored for lower-income families, with citizens working with the local bank, a local endowment fund, the College, and the Federal government to construct over 60 homes. In so doing, the biggest part of the housing blight in the town was eliminated. Those on the steering committee and those being assisted were friends before this project began; they remain friends today. A need for daycare services resulted in a genuine outpouring of love, money, volunteer carpenters and brick masons, etc. We now have one of the finest daycare facilities and services anywhere. And we all remember the gentle little lady, who was born in this town, walking slowly down Concord Road from her family’s Victorian home, carrying a bag of clothes and food. She would cross Main Street, go down Bradey’s Alley, and end in the heart of the black community. There she would minister to the needs of a family who had sick members or who was down on its luck. Everyone knew what she was doing. There was no fanfare about it. She just did it. These acts of kindness, of knowing your fellow citizen and his strengths and needs, are more numerous than anyone other than the Almighty will ever know. Certainly, this quality is not unique to Davidson. It exists in other places. But the fact is that it does exist in Davidson. This community is a place where it is possible to know most of the people who share the proud title of “resident of Davidson.” And to paraphrase the late Senator L.Q.C. Lamar, “to know your neighbor is to love your neighbor.” You cannot ignore or disregard the joys and needs of your neighbors if you know your neighbors. I was raised in Central Florida, a beautiful part of this country. Yet, with the Disney World explosion and NASA importing literally thousands of newcomers very quickly, “developments” sprang up everywhere. Plans for “Rocket City,” a city of tomorrow, to be built between Orlando and Cocoa Beach, were announced; the land was cleared, streets were paved without proper drainage, model homes were constructed, and the “re-entry” into the world of reality came as fast as bankruptcy was declared. Other developments were financially more successful. But they became enclaves unto themselves, not part of the existing community. A respect for those traditional concerns of neighbors and neighborhoods was not forthcoming. They were identified only as “such-and-such development.” These same people voted, of course, in the national elections. Most importantly, they voted in the local elections. And with the absence of any assimilation into the community proper, division came. Those who had worked long and hard for the good of the community over the years were turned out of office. The “new folks” were now in charge. The land which SYNCO plans to develop is ideal for residential development. It is beautiful land. Yet, it should be remembered that the town of Davidson has fewer than 800 registered voters. This high-density project will bring in 900 families, or potentially 2,000-3,000 new voters. When the entire area is taken into the town limits, the voting strength of those who have worked to make this town desirable so that SYNCO would want to develop the land could be powerless. This does not have to happen to Davidson. Growth is going to come to Davidson, and that is probably good. But it must be slow and orderly growth. Each year we welcome new citizens to this town. The spirit of concern for your neighbor can be fostered and can flourish. Adequate time between building phases gives time for residents of the town to make their way out to the “new folks,” to get them involved in town projects, civic clubs, church circles, Scout troops, etc. It allows for the ever-expanding circle of friends, of neighbors, to become a reality. Edmund Burke several hundred years ago worded the problem, the opportunity, correctly: “To be attached to the subdivision, to love the little platoon we belong to in society, is the first principle (the germ, as it were) of public affection. It is the first link by which we proceed to a love of our country, and of mankind.” What kind of town will you come back to in the year 2000 A.D.? It can be the same, only better. As Jamie Wyeth so eloquently said: “Working within the framework of a strong tradition can produce many achievements that create their own tradition.” It is a tradition I

DAV drive nets $35,955

WDAV's recent fundraising drive met and surpassed its $35,000 goal, receiving $35,955 in pledges from 1,103 donors, according to station Community Relations Director Henry Doss. “We're particularly excited at the number of new donors—over 450,” Doss said. Station Director Ed McIntyre pointed out that students and community members put in more than 500 volunteer man-hours during the drive.

Drill called a success

The town of Davidson’s participation in the December 6 nuclear evacuation drill was successful “as far as it went,” according to Civil PreparednessDirector Robert Manning said town rescue personnel performed as expected in the drill, which simulated evacuation procedures following an accident at McGuire Nuclear Power Plant. Over two hundred people participated in the drill, according to the North Meck Newspaper. No figures are available on participation by Davidson citizens. No one raised substantive problems with the drill at a follow-up meeting, Manning said. “I don’t foresee any major changes in the town’s plan,” he added. Once the public schools decide on their evacuation procedures, the town will write a final version of its plan. All residents will receive information including maps, instructions, and telephone numbers. A few towns activated their warning sirens before official notification from the county on Saturday, Manning said. However, Davidson was not among them.

Arrest a 20th century ghost town emerged. (Continued from page 1) trust these outsiders,’’ ity operations. said. “The Honor System is good Security has found and returned Lewis’ wallet. Hughes cherish; I hope it can be sustained.

Kelley & Iles win Wildcat Handbook job
By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Juniors Barbara Kelley and Donna Iles will be Wildcat Handbook editors next year. Kelley and Iles defeated Steve Carter and Patti Long in Tuesday’s election by a vote of 436 to 319. Kelley and Iles said their top priority is to meet their deadlines. Iles said they expect pages to be ready for printing by the end of the school year. The Handbook should be completed and sent to freshmen by midsummer. The current pages describing the Y Student Service Corps and Davidson Christian Fellowship (DCF) will be condensed, and information concerning other clubs and student activities will be added, according to Iles. Included in each activity description will be the name of a student for interested freshmen to contact. The new editors plan to use either “glamorous photos” or pictures of College administrators to represent freshmen who do not send in their photographs. A page of basic information about Davidson will include gym, laundry, and infirmary hours, as well as out-of-the-way places to study, Kelley said. The restaurant guide will list price ranges and check acceptance policies. Kelley emphasized that they would have a “great” cover but added they had not come to any firm decision about it. Iles said students interested in writing essays about Slater food service, academics, or other relevant topics should call them. Iles, a biology major from Lakeland, Florida, is a hall counselor on third Richardson. Kelley is from Hartsville, South Carolina, and is an English major.

Wall & Holt will advise freshmen
By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Writer

Margaret Holt and Jeff Wall defeated opponents John Teague and Barbara Boyce in the race for freshman advisors Tuesday. Holt and Wall collected 523 votes, compared to 245 for Teague and Boyce. As freshman advisors, Holt and Wall will be responsible for organizing the selection and training of next year’s hall counselors. Throughout the year they will meet with and advise the hall counselors and act as intermediaries between the hall counselors and the Dean of Students’ Office. Holt and Wall said they plan to meet all of next year’s freshmen and to get feedback from them by visiting their halls throughout the year. Wall is a hall counselor on Belk First Center East and is a KA. Holt is a hall counselor on second Richardson and eats at Rusk.

(Continued from page 1) ities, Epes said. “I think it’s commonly understood that the faculty has a responsibility in this area.” One argument in favor of a committee, Epes said, is that “if the faculty’s goal is educational quality they should help determine their own make-up.” Epes added, “a slightly independent faculty committee (is seen as) a further guarantor of due process in tenure decisions.” Asked if the controversial denial of tenure in Spring 1979 to Sociology Professor Norm Koller, Political Science Professor Joseph Retzer, and English Professor Georgianna Ziegler was likely to have an effect on the faculty’s decision, Epes said there was no specific mention of the decision at the meeting. “It’s probably in the back of people’s minds,” he added. Concerns raised about the committee at Tuesday’s meeting included questions about “how much voice it would have,” Epes said. Some professors are afraid the committee would disrupt Davidson's sense of community by asking faculty members to pass judgment on one another. Committee members would also have access to confidential materials about tenure candidates. Another concern, Epes said, is that faculty members who had gained an understanding of the Administration’s priorities in contract renewal decisions would have to face a new set of priorities when the faculty committee evaluated them. The College must also clarify the role of the candidate’s department in evaluation for tenure, Epes added. The Administration “tends to favor” increased faculty participation in tenure decisions, according to Epes. “There is faculty participation now, but this would be a matter of putting it into a structure.”