THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
January 18, 1980

Focus
President Spencer discusses goals and priorities for the 80's
By ELIZABETH KISS - News Editor

Faculty salaries, in an era of inflation, constitute the “most serious problem” facing Davidson, said College President Samuel Spencer in
interviews this week. Spencer cited funding and enrollment as other major challenges for the 1980s.

Spencer acknowledged that the next ten years will be a critical period for American higher education. It is considered likely
that inflation and the energy crisis will lead to escalating costs, while the number of college-age students will decrease. The
Chronicle of Higher Education projects a drop of 21% in the 18-year-old population of North Carolina over the decade. Other
states are expected to have even greater drops, as high as 42% in New York. Already, Spencer said, sinking morale
resulting from such gloomy forecasts is a “major problem in American colleges.”

Spencer said he is “deeply concerned” about Davidson’s inability to keep faculty and staff salaries ahead of the cost of
living. “Inflation is outrunning our ability to pay,” he explained, admitting that Davidson has “lost ground against public institutions” in
its salary levels. However, he pointed out, Davidson is in the top 5% in faculty compensation among colleges of comparable
size, according to a report by the American Association of University Professors.

Spencer offered no specific proposals on how to deal with salaries, saying, “If there were a way to keep faculty
and staff compensation ahead of the cost of living easily and significantly, other colleges would have also found it.” “I
plan to come out with some sort of statement on faculty and staff in the near future,” Spencer said. Operating
funds such as those for salaries are one (See Spencer, page 11)

Coach Kremser’s appeal of his firing rejected
By ROY FULLER - Staff Writer

The decision to fire soccer and track coach Karl Kremser is final, according to Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill. Kremser had
appealed the firing in December. Cartmill said that after review of Kremser’s appeal “the original decision of denying renewal was
upheld.”

Kremser was unwilling to comment, saying that it “might jeopardize the situation.” He felt that “some things are still in
the works.” Cartmill refused to give reasons why Kremser was not renewed, saying that administrative policy requires him to refrain
from discussing personnel decisions. The criteria for renewal of an athletic instructor, Cartmill explained, are “expertise in the assigned area,
dedication to the job, and participation in the department as a professional individual.” When a decision is appealed, there is
a consultation between the individual department and the administration, followed by the administration’s formal statement.

According to Cartmill, no replacement for Kremser has been found but “the process is underway at this moment.” Reaction from
athletes to (Kenny Connor)

SGA committee releases athletes’ GPAs; distributes questionnaire

Richards and Bailey futures to be polled on Tuesday
By GLENN KELLUM - Staff Writer

A straw vote to be conducted Tuesday by the Council on Campus and Religious Life will play an important role
in determining the future of two Patterson Court houses, currently Richards and Bailey houses. The houses should be available for
occupancy in September 1981, provided that the Commons has been completed. The straw vote will enable the Council to measure
student opinion, said Union Board President Jim Robertson. The Council, which will submit its suggestions for future use of the
houses to Dean of Students Will Terry, did not want to make any suggestions “in a vacuum,” hence the straw
vote, said Terry.This straw vote comes at a time when the problem of overcrowding is very evident, said Dean Terry.
"There are just not enough spaces on the Court for this year’s freshman class. With this vote, the freshmen will
be able to create additional alternatives which aren’t presently available," Terry added.

The straw vote will appear in the form of a questionnaire. Each student will circle one of five choices for
each of the two houses: 1) coed eating house, 2) sorority, 3) all women’s eating house, 4) fraternity, 5) all
men’s eating house.

Renard Yoder was the first member of the audience to join the Chuck Davis Dance group on stage last Monday
night. (See CCRL, page 11)

Kremser’s firing has been mixed. Fifteen members of the soccer team wrote that Kremser had "done a truly remarkable job."
(Davidsonian, 12/14/79) They pointed out that Kremser improved the team’s record from 0-16 to 8-13 in three years and was
selected Southern Conference Coach of the Year in 1979. This high regard of Kremser is not shared by many soccer
players, according to Kevin Robbins, three-year captain of the team. "Kremser lacks professionalism and discipline," Robbins said. Robbins disputed the
statement from soccer players that Kremser encouraged a "self-respecting team," saying, "He (See Kremser, page 11)

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

The current athletic program places too much emphasis on major sports. [Circle one] Agree 1 2 3 4 5 Disagree

from Davidson Student Senate Athletic Questionnaire

The SGA has finished a study on Davidson athletics and is distributing a questionnaire to gauge student opinion on the
subject. The Athletic Committee released figures comparing Davidson's athletic budget to similar colleges and a list showing composite GPA’s for
various athletic teams. (See chart.) Committee Chairman Jim Haynes said these statistics should help inform students who complete the questionnaire.

The budget survey, compiled by Committee member Richard Terry, showed that Davidson spends more on basketball than seven similar colleges
and more on football than all but Colgate. The schools in the survey were Haverford, University of the South, Carleton,
Williams, Colgate, St. Lawrence, and Wesleyan.

Registrar Richard Burts worked with the Committee in figuring composite team GPA’s, according to Haynes. Basketball players (with a 2.47
composite GPA) and football players (2.55) scored lowest in the study. The Women’s Cross Country Team (3.35) and Women’s Track
team (3.19) boasted the highest GPA’s.

SGA senators are giving the study and questionnaire to two hundred students randomly selected by computer, Haynes said. Results will
be compiled Monday. Noting that faculty and trustee opinions on the athletics program are already well-publicized, Haynes said the Committee
"wanted information on what students thought." The SGA will give results of the questionnaire to the faculty, trustees, and The
Davidsonian.

The Committee formulated the questionnaire after discussion with Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill, Head Football Coach Ed Farrell, Athletic Advisory Committee
Chairman David Shi, and several students and faculty members, Haynes said. The 25 questions touch on athletic spending, the impact
of athletics on Davidson social and academic life, recruitment of athletes, and alumni support of athletics.

Haynes said the Committee was unable to print information about the Admissions Office’s handling of athletes’ applications or the number
of athletes convicted for Honor Code violations. "We had grand aspirations to get all sorts of information," Haynes said. Since
some admissions files examined by the Committee were incomplete, they decided their information was too sketchy to warrant publication of
their findings. (See SGA, page 11)
