THE DAVIDSONIAN  
Vagna Vis Veritatis  
Volume LXIX, Number 22  
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.  
April 18, 1980  

80-81 tax funds distributed  
Council limits Hobart’s Park to 2 issues, spares Miscellany from demise  
By JIM CROWE  
Staff Writer  

Student literary magazines Hobart’s Park and Miscellany had trouble getting Activities Tax Council (ATC) funding for next year. After several budget meetings last week, the ATC granted Hobart’s Park only $2700 of a requested $3700. However, the Miscellany got $4745 of $4845 requested. The ATC allocated a total of $58,500 among 12 student organizations. Money for the funding comes from the $45 activities fee that all students pay annually. In addition to the Miscellany and Hobart's Park, the ATC approved funding for the following student activities: Artist Series—$7000, Black Student Coalition—$2200, Club Sports—$2743, Davidson Christian Fellowship—$400, Davidsonian—$12,900, Resident Advisers—$375, carrier current radio station—$1907, SGA—$4700, Quips and Cranks—$17,630, and Wildcat Handbook—$1200.  

Hobart’s Park Editor Aida Doss originally wanted $4000, enough to print 1500 copies for each of three terms. After the ATC told her it would fund only 800 copies per issue, Doss said the cost would still be $3700 for three terms. Londrey said Hobart's Park was finally given only $2700 because “We felt doubt that there was sufficient manpower and interest to get out three issues. We based our appropriations on two issues.”  

“I am confident that there are enough talented writers on campus to support three issues,” Doss said. There are now seven students on the Hobart’s Park staff, most of whom are seniors, including Doss. “Hobart's Park really needs to prove itself before it moves on to a larger budget,” Media (See Tax Council, page 7)  

(Trey Thies)  
The Cornelius shopping center was heavily gutted by fire last week.  
(Stephen Enniss)  

Objections arise over women’s house  
By DEBBIE BLAND  
Staff Correspondent  
and ELIZABETH KISS  
News Editor  

Two student members of the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) questioned the establishment of a women’s honor center at Monday’s CCRL meeting. The center will be in the house next door to the President’s, where Biology Professor David Kimmel now lives. Eight to ten women will live there next year, and the center will accommodate seminars and receptions, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding.  

CCRL members Doug Shanks and Jack Hall objected to Bolding’s failure to consult anyone before establishing the center. “It seemed to be a decision the CCRL could have made,” Shanks said. “I don’t know why the women merited a special study house,” Shanks continued, pointing out that more men than women are forced off campus. “It seems to be reverse discrimination.” He admitted that his failure to get perimeter housing affected his reaction.  

Bolding said the center was created “to give some flexibility to women” in their housing choices. Women chose only from Cannon, Little, and Basement Carnegie on campus and had only four single rooms available to them, compared to 32 for men. Many houses in town, he added, are available only to men. Since the center is located next to the President’s home, it would be a bad place for perimeter housing, which tends to get run down, Bolding said. “This is a good house, and we would like to have it increase in value,” he said. (See Women, page 7)  

2 coed houses planned  
By WALTER LEE  
Staff Writer  

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) decided Monday to set up two coed eating houses to replace Richards and Bailey. Future freshmen will eat at the new Commons beginning September of 1981. The decision involved only one ofthe two houses. Earlier this year the CCRL decided that at least one of them would be a coed eating house. Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, who presided over Monday’s CCRL meeting, said, “The council’s decision was influenced by two straw polls.” The most recent, conducted on April 1, showed strong student preference for the second house to be coed as opposed to a new fraternity, all girls’ house, or sorority. Three hundred seventy students favored a coed house, 127 favored a new fraternity, and 2 each favored an all girls’ house or sorority. Although there was strong (See CCRL, page 7)

Student athletes voice opinions on sports priority controversy

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

First of two parts

Davidson athletics has recently been the primary campus issue, debated by administrators, professors, visiting committee members, and students. Most intimately concerned with the issues are the athletes themselves. Whether they play basketball or run track, the athletes recognize that this year’s $85,000 budget cut is not a permanent solution. Changes will have to be made; where they will come must depend on a reevaluation of overall athletic policy.

All of the athletes felt athletics is an essential part of a Davidson education. Field hockey and track team member Barb Ashley pointed out that the College’s Statement of Purpose includes physical education and competitive athletics as part of a liberal arts education. However, many athletes questioned priorities within athletics. The issue most often raised was the gap between support for major and minor sports. The money spent on one out-of-state football game, football player Al Rhyne pointed out, could cover the swim team budget for an entire season. Track member John Hoots said the emphasis on major sports demonstrates that priorities are “mixed up between big business athletics and athletics for students.” “Big business” sports involve fewer athletes, and therefore, some felt, should not take precedence over minor sports. “If the college philosophy is to build mind, body, and soul,” Ashley said, “it should concentrate on the needs of the majority.”

Basketball goals debated

Basketball is the decisive major sport because, under Southern Conference regulations, it forces all men’s minor sports to play in Division I. The athletes generally supported the basketball program, but few felt there was much chance of the team’s gaining top national recognition. Basketball player Rich Perkey said while the team “can compete on a national level, competing does not equal winning.” Perkey added, “there’s a big difference in college basketball, between when Davidson was winning and now.” Another team member, Rich Wilson, said he did not think top ten status was “feasible” except for large-school “basketball factories.” However, he added, “we can compete successfully. It is too soon to make changes in basketball. It’s going to come around.” Perkey also emphasized the importance of coaching continuity in building the basketball program. Baseball player John Marshall said, however, “I don’t see basketball and football succeeding the way people think they will.”

Football Changes Needed

Football evoked more mixed reactions. Most of the athletes felt there was little chance for a consistently successful football program. Instead of a drop to Division III, however, some proposed less drastic cuts in the present program. One distinct advantage of football, Rhyne said, was its role as a “unifying element” for the student body. Hoots agreed, saying, “Football keeps people here on the weekends, preventing Davidson from becoming a five-day college.” A special asset, Ashley and Hoots pointed out, was the role of football in drawing black students to Davidson. “It would be tragic to lose that,” Hoots said. (See Focus on Athletics, page 7)