- 8—The Davidsonian—December 12, 1980

(Continued from page 3)

Handbook. “Guys and girls are involved in different activities and they have a different outlook.” Iles and Kelley cited “new ideas, enthusiasm, dedication, and different backgrounds” as their major strengths as candidates. Iles was editor of her high school’s literary magazine for two years. Kelley was co-editor of her high school yearbook and worked on her high school newspaper. She has also helped with newspaper layout in the College alumni office.

Iles is a hall counselor and Kelley has contact with freshmen through her work at ARA Slater and with the Big Sister program. They said they are running together because they have worked well together in the past on Y Student Service Corps and hall projects. Kelley added that since she is not a hall counselor, she could put a maximum amount of time into the Handbook.

Carter and Long said they would improve on last year’s Handbook by including directions to favorite student destinations, a map of Charlotte, tips on such things as where to get your hair cut and where to eat, as well as information on College activities. Iles and Kelley said they would condense the articles on College activities and include information on restaurants, good places to study, and people to see in various situations. They plan to seek additional ideas from this year’s students. Most importantly, Iles and Kelley said, “our goal is to have everything completed by summer break.” Carter and Long also emphasized completing the Handbook early.

Warren Beck paces swimmers to win over J.C. Smith
By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The Davidson swimming team began the 1980-81 season on a positive stroke Monday as they soundly defeated J.C. Smith, 82-29. Davidson swimmers captured all first places in the meet. Junior Warren Beck showed well with firsts in the 100-yard freestyle, 50-yard freestyle, and 400-yard medley relay. Junior Keith Riddle captured firsts in the 200-yard breaststroke and the 1000-yard freestyle. Sophomore Frank Bright won first in one-meter diving. Others winning individual firsts were Mike Schremmer, Rick Williams, Mark Hammond, and John Edwards. Davidson won both the 400-yard medley and the 400-yard freestyle medley.

Coach Pat Miller said of the team, coming off of an 8-6 finish last year, began conditioning and stroke work during the fall in preparation for the season. Miller said, “Our strokes look a lot better now than they did last year at this time. Our starts and turns also are a lot more polished.” Returning All-Southern Conference swimmers Mike Schremmer, Craig Finger, and Warren Beck, all juniors, and All-Southern Conference diver Kenya (Continued from page 1)

From December 1978 to December 1979, had to take over the bankrupt school, recruit first-year students, organize the construction of a dormitory, buy books, hire teachers, arrange for national exams—and teach science and agricultural biology. Is it effective? Davidson volunteers are not saving the world, obviously. But a recent letter from Andy Miller ’80, headmaster of Shikokho School, testifies to what can be done. “I’m getting deeper and deeper into my work and the community,” he wrote. “It is so wonderful to see your efforts make such a tangible difference in people’s lives and possibilities. I’m breaking ground for our own classroom building next week, just trusting we'll find money to complete it. Also ordering books and furniture as we anticipate going from 70 students to 150-200 next year.”

The volunteers do make changes; even more, they are changed themselves. “I don’t think I heard anybody who came back from Kenya who didn’t say that it was, bar none, the peak experience of their lives,” Wood said. “The experience is very rewarding,” Glen Darbyshire ’79 wrote from Kenya. “The unstructuredNature of Davidson’s ‘program’ is challenging in that each of us must explore, adjust, then choose the vision he desires to achieve in the time he has.” The experience “exorcised some useless idealism,” Keller said, but also taught that “a few people can change a lot.” In a position of responsibility, the volunteer learns to “find strength in himself, to find his own talents, failings, shortcomings.” Working in Kenya taught him that one can “sustain a service activity in which there is little acknowledgement,” Darbyshire said, “and that it takes no ideological basis to serve—you do it for its own sake.” Darbyshire’s year in Kenya also demonstrated how little it takes to be happy, he added, citing the essentials as “health, nourishment, and a channel for creativity.” “You’re not changing the culture,” he added, but in a densely populated, poor region, “you give a few students hope.”

And of course, it is not all service. There is the joy of exploring a new culture, of living in a changing and beautiful land, of going to big game parks, climbing 14,000-foot Mt. Elgon, and swimming in the Indian Ocean. Over and over, the volunteers spoke with love of the strange, rich juxtapositions which abound in Kenya. “It’s not primitive National Geographic country,” Darbyshire said. “You see mud huts with Olivia Newton-John blaring from the radios inside.” While people wash clothes in the river and preserve some tribal superstitions, they also collect photographs, discuss politics and books, and dream of moving to the capital city. The local secondary schools are very poorly equipped, but their curricula is only about one year behind ours at the same grade level, Darbyshire said. There are the matatus—small pickup trucks which literally go anywhere and always too fast—and ugali, cornmeal paste, the staple food—and students who gather their animals into their hut for the night before beginning to read their physics.

Miller wrote enthusiastically this fall, “So far, I am a Headmaster/Farmer/Contractor/Teacher and am afraid to find out what comes next!” (See Kenya, page 9)

Frank Bright brings back proven strength to the team. Miller said that swimmers in the freshman class bring greatly needed depth and versatility to the squad. Freshman team members are Bill Vline, Roy Martin, and John Lyday. The junior class is by far the strongest class of swimmers, with eight team members. Beside Schremmer, Finger, and Beck, the third-year class includes Rick Williams, Keith Riddle, Tony Smith, Craig Allen, and Mark Hammond. Miller explained that the large number of junior swimmers is due to changing recruiting procedures. “Four years ago the swim team had a recruiting budget of $665, so we were able to do some recruiting. Now, our recruiting budget has been cut to $91.33, and there is really no serious recruiting.” Miller said that even brochure mailings are no longer financially feasible. Other team members are seniors Don Matthews, Ralph Mosca, and Ed Imbrogno, and sophomores John Edwards and Bill Michel. The team will face stiff competition in the conference this year, including the strong Appalachian, Citadel, and Furman teams which have increased their scholarship spending this year. Miller said that the Davidson team could finish anywhere from second to fifth in the conference. During the Christmas break, the team will travel to Florida for workouts. The next meet is Friday, January 16, against the College of Charleston and S.C. State in Charleston. The Cats face the Citadel in Charleston the following day.

Pizza Hut
Western Steer
Farrell's
La Strada Ristorante Italiano
The Meeting Place Kitchen
THE FLOWER CART
THE VILLAGE STORE
110 MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N.C.
KING OF PIZZA, INC.
241 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina
Phone 663-3030

We Appreciate Your Support of the SGA Phonathon

Krispy Kreme
The Village Cove
FAMOUS SINCE 1977