THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 25
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
May 9, 1980

Athletic evaluation report delay keeps topic off Trustees’ agenda

By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees will not formally consider College athletic policy at their meeting May 8 and 9, according to
Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman. Athletics was to have been the primary topic of the meeting. It has
been omitted because the Athletic Evaluation Committee, who visited in April, have not completed their report, Assistant to the President
John Cunningham and Zimmerman said. The report was due May 1. It had not been published “if possible,” Cunningham said.
Because of the delay, the Trustees will probably wait until their October meeting before considering changes in athletics, Cunningham said.

According to Cunningham, College President Samuel Spencer said there is “nothing major” on issue for the Trustees to consider, but
that he may add items to the agenda at the last minute. Items that are on the Trustee’s agenda include
reports by the Education Committee, the Finance Committee, the Religion Policy and Program Committee, and the Student Life and Health
Committee.

The Education Committee will consider tenure appointments for Biology Professor Verna Case and Drama Professor Joseph Gardner. They will also
discuss faculty promotions and sabbatical applications. The Finance Committee will hear reports from the College’s three investment counselors as well
as one by Wachovia Trust Company on the College’s endowments. Business Manager Robert Currie said the Committee will also review
the status of property the College is selling in Raleigh and Greensboro.

Regular year-end reports will be made by Dean of Students Will Terry and Minister of Students Rush Otey to the
Religious Policy and Program Committee and the Student Life and Health Committee. Terry said nothing “important” is contained in these
reports.

When asked what will happen to the report of the AEC when it arrives, Cunningham said that it would be
given to the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics and the Trustees’ Athletic Committee. Afterwards, Spencer would like to have the
report reviewed as of May 7.

$5 PIRG bill checkoff approved

By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

This summer’s tuition bill will include a five-dollar charge for PIRG in the form of a positive check-off. The sentence,
“If you wish to contribute to PIRG, add $5.00,” will be included on students’ summer bills, according to College President
Samuel Spencer. PIRG chapter chairman Susan Marynowski said, “We’re pleased that (Spencer) has approved the positive check-off.”

A letter about PIRG was included in last fall’s billing information telling parents they should add the contribution to PIRG
if they desired to do so, Spencer said. Essentially, this was a positive check-off system. However, no information about PIRG
was actually written on the bill itself, Marynowski said. Also, a pamphlet about PIRG was included in last fall’s bill
which was written by the PIRG chapter. This pamphlet told parents they should deduct the PIRG charge from the bill.
Those who composed the pamphlet were still under the impression that the PIRG billing was still governed by a negative
check-off system, Marynowski said.

Compared to nearly $4000 raised in past years, only $200 was acquired this year. This means that fifty people sifted
through the conflicting information in the bill, which Marynowski said was confusing. Last year, PIRG was taken off the bill.
The billing procedure had been in the form of a negative check-off: Those not wishing to contribute to PIRG were
instructed to subtract $4 from their payment. The reason for the change, Spencer said, was that the old negative check-off
system was “anti-consumer” because it required action to opt-out.

(See PIRG, page 7)

Unchained bicycles are easy targets.

Town Police Chief Mills believes stolen students’ bikes taken out of town

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Davidson Police Chief R.H. Mills said several “different groups” of people are stealing Davidson students’ and townspeople’s bicycles and taking
them to other towns.cities—where ‘it’s pretty hard to trace them.” “We're assured (many stolen bicycles) have been taken out of
town,” Mills said. But the police have had little success so far in tracking either the bicycles or the thieves.
Sophomore Keith Hearle, whose bicycle was stolen last week, said he heard that a “ring... operates in this area who
steal bicycles, take them to Concord, spray paint them, and redistribute them.” However, Campus Security Director J.G. Hughes said that
students’ bicycles have not been taken to Concord—although many stolen bicycles have been found there. Mills confirmed Hughes’s findings. “Concord
had more (stolen) bicycles than anywhere else,” he said. But “we’ve gone over and checked” and no students’ bicycles were
found. Mills said “a month or so ago” Davidson police got a report of people taking bicycles from around town
and loading them onto a camper. Mills apprehended the camper before it reached Mooresville and arrested the suspects. “The judge
couldn’t find them guilty because the students (whose bicycles were stolen) wouldn’t show up (at the trial),” Mills said. “We
continuously keep an eye on people we've caught in the past,” Mills said. However, since thefts have continued even after
a few arrests, Mills is sure that “different people” steal each time. Mills said he did not know the exact
number of bicycle thefts this year, but that there were “lots from both students and townspeople.” Hughes said very few
thefts have been reported to him this year. However, he believes many students neglect to do so. Dean of Students
Will Terry said, “In the event there is even a rumor of this, students ought to be more careful about
keeping their bicycles locked.” Two recovered bicycles are now locked in the Davidson jail, Mills said. He is waiting for
the owners to pick them up.

Class of ‘84 male-female ratio nearly 2:1
By SCOTT EBLIN
Staff Writer

Selected from the largest number of applicants in Davidson history, the class of 1984 will be composed of 250 men
and 130 women, according to Admissions Director John Griffith. The students were chosen from a total of 1556—1020 men and
535 women. The reason for the approximate 2:1 ratio is “more tradition than anything else,” according to Griffith. “Davidson is
exemplary of a school that doesn’t quite know what it’s going to be with regards to the composition of the
student body.” Since the number of female applicants is growing while male applicants are down, Griffith foresees a possible change
in the ratio that would correspond with the number of available students. Griffith said he is pleased with the “very
high overall quality” of next year's freshmen. Academically, their overall record is slightly higher than those of classes in the
recent past. Approximately 68% of the group comes from Florida, Georgia, Virginia, and North Carolina. “There is no policy to
emphasize recruiting in the Northeast. The College is very comfortable with the present geographical distribution,” Griffith said. Explaining that every
school’s strength lies in its “high yield area,” Griffith said that “the strength of Davidson is in the South. We're
the leading liberal arts college in the South, not the leading liberal arts college in New Jersey.” Though the Admissions
Department is seeking to make the student body “as heterogeneous as possible,” Griffith said, “geography is not the only factor.
While it would be too homogeneous if all Davidson students came from the South, it would change the character of
the school to have a disproportionate amount from the Northeast.” “We made our first trip to New England last fall,”
Griffith said. “When we go to the Northeast we are simply interested in getting the very best students possible.”

Publication Ceases

With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication for the academic year 1979-80. Publication will resume in the second week of
classes in the fall.
