§—The Davidsonian—January 18, 1980

Womack tops 1,000 career points as team aims for winning season

By BILL WILSON
Staff Writer

Sarah Womack, Davidson's outstanding woman basketball player, has been practicing her outside shot since she was an eighth-grader in Stone
Mountain, Ga. Friday night against N.C. Wesleyan, one of her characteristic soft, arching jumpers in the first half put her
name in Davidson’s record books as the first female to score 1,000 career points. Although the Lady Wildcats lost 61-56,
Womack led all scorers in the game with 19 points, upping her career total to 1,011.

Reaching the 1,000 point plateau “really is a big honor,” she acknowledges, although she insists that “the whole team was
responsible for it.” Womack’s own talent and perseverance are most liable for her success, however.

Womack’s exposure to athletics began as a youngster in Georgia. “I’ve always loved sports, and my family has always played
sports. I played basketball with my brother and dad from the time I was little,” she says.

Womack played forward for Clarkson High School in Stone Mountain, and her penchant for scoring brought visits from several college
coaches during her senior year. She says she chose Davidson for reasons other than athletics, however.

“I didn’t come to college solely to play basketball,” she says. “If I’d gone to Mercer (a college in Georgia
which recruited her; it boasts a strong women’s basketball program), I’d have concentrated on basketball.”

Womack arrived at Davidson the same year Susan Roberts took over as head basketball coach and has started for Roberts
ever since. The Lady Wildcats’ 9-10 record her freshman year has been their best ever, and Womack has yet to
play on a winning team. She has played consistently well throughout her career, however, and often has provided much-needed scoring
punch.

This year Womack, a forward, is averaging just over 21 points per game and is headed toward her best season
ever. The young team she leads might be, too. For once, Womack is not Davidson’s tallest player on the floor—freshman
center Mike Frankhouser and Sarah’s sister Jean, also a freshman, add needed height to the lineup. Mitzi Short, another freshman,
also starts at guard along with experienced junior Kirby Owen. Carol Hepner, a usual starter, is out with a knee
injury.

“We’ve got some good talent on the team this year,” Womack says. “It takes a while to get used to
each other. I feel there’s been a definite improvement from the beginning of the year.”

The Lady Wildcats have been edged out in close games this season by conference leaders Bennett and N.C. Wesleyan. They
play Wesleyan later this month, and “we can beat them,” Womack says. With her shooting, they just might.

Lady Wildcats beat Warren Wilson

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

During the past week, the Lady Wildcats had 3 close games and they finally came out with a victory at
Warren Wilson by a margin of 2 points, 55-53. The other 2 games were disappointing losses to Bennett and N.C.
Wesleyan.

After coming back early from Christmas break and having three days of hard practice, the Cattes were confident that they
could defeat the Belles of Bennett, the top team in the conference. With the game five minutes old and Davidson
holding Bennett scoreless with a tenacious man-to-man defense, it appeared as if the Cattes were on their way to victory.
However, by halftime, Bennett had made some adjustments and had gone ahead by five, 28-23.

Davidson outscored Bennett by four in the second half even though they shot 31% from the field and 50% from
the line as compared to 40% from the field and 66.7% from the line for the Belles. With 13 seconds
left and the score 48-47, Davidson had one last chance as they had possession of the ball but they weren’t
able to convert.

Sarah Womack led the team with 15 points and 8 rebounds, while Kirby Owen and Jeanne Womack added 12 and
10 points, respectively. Next Tuesday, January 22, the Wildcattes travel to Greensboro to meet the Belles again, in a crucial
conference game.

The second game of the week was against North Carolina Wesleyan, the team that won the Division III state title
last year but was 1-6 on the season when they came to Davidson on Friday night.

At halftime, the Bishops were up by 10 on the strength of 55% shooting from the field as compared to
26% for the Wildcattes. At the beginning of the second half, N.C. Wesleyan increased their lead to as much as
13 points but the Cattes battled back and the margin seesawed between three and five points in favor of the
Bishops.

In the Wesleyan game, Sarah Womack had 19 points which pushed her career total at Davidson past 1,000 points. Mike
Frankhouser had 15 points and Mitzi Short added 11.

Davidson’s third game in seven days resulted in a victory for the Cattes as they held on against the Owls
of Warren Wilson. Davidson had a 12-point lead at halftime which swelled to as much as 24 during the second
half but due to circumstances beyond their control, they had to fight hard to preserve the victory. Sarah Womack had
18 points which gives her 1,029 for her career and Mike Frankhouser crashed the boards and grabbed 22 rebounds.

Davidson's next home game is Thursday, January 23 at 7:30 p.m. against St. Andrews, a very strong team in the
conference, so the Cattes need your support.

Sara Womack scores her 1000th career point for Davidson.
