Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 18
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
March 21, 1980

Terry Candidates differ in qualifications, views
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

What sort of experience should the SGA President have? Candidates Robert Bowie, Richard Terry, and Dave Waddill, all juniors, approach
the question from distinct perspectives. Bowie answered that "three years at Davidson" give him the experience. "I think anyone who
can speak the English language can (do the job)." Terry emphasized his wide-ranging involvement in campus affairs. Currently SGA Vice
President, Terry was a senator as a sophomore and has served on the Council on Campus and Religious Life and
the Student Conduct Council. He has also worked with Union Director Shaw Smith and Housing Director Bill Bolding. Terry said
that his "working relationship" with many professors and administrators would be "vital to getting the job done." Waddill, a senator
for one year, stressed his ability to get students involved in College affairs. He cited the Trustee Contact Committee he
organized fall term as an example. About fifty students are "writing the Trustees on an individual basis," he said. "Now
for once (the Trustees) are getting good student input," despite the Trustees' general lack of close contact with the College,
he added.

Cartmill resigns as A.D.
By JIM CROWE
Staff Writer

Thomas Cartmill has recently resigned as Davidson College Athletic Director to assume other duties in the athletic department. The resignation
is effective August 31. The position of Athletic Director will be discontinued. In the fall Cartmill will begin serving as
Director of Physical Education and Recreational Sports, a newly formed position. Another new post, the Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, will
be established. College President Samuel Spencer said the College will begin searching for someone to fill this position soon. Cartmill
said his resignation was the result of "a gradual decision over the past year." He stated that factors involved in
the decision were "an accumulation of things: program changes, new directions, constant pressures. The budget cut didn’t help any." Cartmill
has been Davidson's Athletic Director since 1974. He is a tenured professor of physical education. His new job, Cartmill said,
reflects "a desire to get back to working more closely with young people in the area of physical education." Specifically,
he said his new duties will "center on improvement of general student activities." Although the specific responsibilities for his new
position have not been established, Cartmill said he will work with "student facilities, physical education, and intramurals." He said he
has already begun planning the new sports complex and equestrian facilities. Spencer said Cartmill’s salary will come from the faculty
compensation account, not the athletic budget, since he will become a faculty member. (See Cartmill, page 11)

Carter disputes doomsayers
By KENT DYER
Staff Writer

State Department spokesman Hodding Carter captivated a jam-packed Love Auditorium for nearly an hour and a half Monday night with
a mixture of wit, wisdom, and platitudes. Carter’s appearance frequently seemed a pitch for President Carter’s reelection campaign. His prepared
speech, which lasted about forty-five minutes, was consciously aimed at highlighting the areas of foreign affairs where the Carter Administration
has made notable gains. Among the areas mentioned were: (See Carter, page 2)

Bowie (Trey Thies)is an English major from Anderson, South Carolina. He eats independently. Terry is a history major from Clarkston,
Georgia, and a KA. Waddill, from Winston-Salem, is also a history major and is a member of SAE. Both Terry
and Waddill are hall counselors. Among the key issues the candidates have discussed are athletic policy, admissions policy, and college
money problems (See SGA Elections, Page 11).

Minor sports hit hard
Sports budget cut $85,000
By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

The Board of Trustees voted at their February meeting to cut the College athletic budget by $85,000, primarily in the
area of minor sports. Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill said the $85,000 cut will be made “by way of operational and
personnel cuts.” An advisory committee to the Trustees noted earlier this year that the athletic budget “had no fat,” Cartmill
said. However, this advisory committee was responsible for suggesting where cuts should be made. Any cuts which are to be
made will be done purely as an attempt to offset inflationary costs, not as a means to delinquent departments, Cartmill
said. “But with a cut this large, the effect will be felt across the board,” he added. An itemized report
of where specific cuts are to be made has not been released. “We can only moan generally,” Tennis Coach Jeff
Frank said. Operational cuts will make coaching difficult, according to Frank. He said there is no room for a cut
in money used for tennis equipment. “We don’t have the money now to buy the equipment,” Frank said. The tennis
team could perhaps cut their travel expenses, which would result in their playing fewer matches. Cartmill said there may be
cuts like this in other departments—savings in “officials, transportation, food, and housing.” Personnel cuts may entail coaches doubling their responsibilities.
Several coaches are leaving next year, and the administration might assign those jobs to the remaining staff (See Athletics, page
11).

Evaluation finally passes
By JOHNSON VAIL
Staff Correspondent

The faculty voted Tuesday to adopt the ICES forms for student evaluation of faculty. The forms will be handled according
to the guidelines of the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC). They will be used for the first time this Spring term.
The PAC proposal contained three major changes from the original method of administering the ICES forms which the faculty rejected
this Fall. First, both the Vice President for Academic Affairs and the professor will receive results to all questions on
the form. Originally, the Vice President would only have seen the responses to the three “global questions” in which the
student rated the course, course content, and instructor. Results of 23 more detailed questions chosen by each professor from a
list of over 400 questions would only have been given to the professor. Second, students will be required to sign
their names on a signature sheet identifying the number of their form. The signature sheets will be sealed and will
only be opened if a professor’s status is to be affected by a student’s evaluation. Then, the student will be
held responsible for his judgment. Third, the ICES forms will not be the only source of student opinion used in
the evaluation of faculty. Majors and graduates, for example, may be asked for their evaluations. In 1977, the faculty adopted
the Code of Faculty Evaluation.
