Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN Magna Vis Veritatis Volume LXX, Number 11 Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Over 300 worked on Phonathon

By ELIZABETH KISS News Editor

Three hundred sixteen Davidson students participated in the SGA Telephonathon, which ended last Thursday. They raised $61,078 in alumni contributions. The gifts came from 1070 alumni, 304 of whom were giving for the first time.

“I’m deeply grateful to the leaders of the Phonathon and to all the students who participated,” Living Endowment Director Lee Willingham said. In addition to raising money, he added, the event had “a real positive impact on the alumni.”

Money from the Telephonathon will go toward meeting the $100,000 Dana Foundation challenge grant. This grant has two requirements. To receive the first $70,000 of the grant, the College must raise $438,000 in its Living Endowment drive, which ends December 31. This is $70,000 more than the College raised last year.

“The good news as of today,” Willingham said, “is that contributions are running 23% ahead of the same date last year.” The College will receive the remaining $30,000 if new donors give $10,000 or more and if at least 28% of all living alumni contribute. Last year alumni participation was 23%.

“I feel strongly that we’ll make it,” Willingham said, “and the Phonathon will be the margin of difference that will get us there.” The Telephonathon raised $8,248 from new donors, almost enough to meet the required total of $10,000. Willingham said these new donors were a major factor in the increase in alumni participation, which is 21% to date. (See Phonathon, page 4)

Members of the SGA said Trustees were flabbergasted at the Phonathon’s success.

Sophomore John Carroll got a step ahead of a Texas A&M defender (Mike Kehs) in last Saturday’s 67-63 loss.

December 19, 1980

Faculty tenure committee topic of discussion again

By ELIZABETH KISS News Editor

The faculty may form a committee to evaluate colleagues who are under consideration for tenure. Fifteen professors attended an open meeting called by the Professional Affairs Committee (PAC) Tuesday to discuss the possibility of establishing a faculty advisory committee on tenure and promotions. PAC Chairman and German Professor Hansford Epes said the PAC called the meeting to help them decide if they should propose such a committee in January. The proposal would need approval of two-thirds of the faculty to pass. Epes said he does not know yet whether the PAC will decide to make a proposal. A similar PAC proposal fell short of approval by eight votes in January 1979. At the time, the major opposition to the proposal was...

Police arrest thief seen in Chambers

By JOHN SIMAN News Editor

Junior Randy McManus helped College security officers apprehend a suspected thief Friday morning. McManus reported seeing the man reach into the pockets of coats hanging in Chambers just before 10 a.m. Friday. Using McManus’ description, Security Chief J.G. Hughes was able to find the man by 10:15. Security officers had been looking for the man since Thursday, for they suspected him of taking English Professor Cynthia Lewis’ wallet from her office. The suspect, a prisoner on work release from Camp Green in Salisbury, has been sent “back to the big house where he’ll pull the rest of the sentence,” Hughes said. He had (David McCurry) been working on a crew employed by Southeastern Waterproofing Company, which is doing maintenance work on Chambers. McManus had been reading in the hall of third floor Chambers before seeing the suspect reaching into coat pockets. “He looked like he’d been caught red-handed,” McManus said. “I was initially mad,” McManus said. “I asked him what he’d been doing.” When the man did not respond, McManus followed him down the stairs and watched him leave Chambers. Then he told Personnel Director Robert Stevenson about the incident. Stevenson...

---got McManus in touch with Hughes, and McManus gave a detailed description of the man. Within minutes, Hughes found the man working with a crew on the roof of Chambers. Hughes said that since the suspect is being sent back to prison, it would not be worth the trouble to prosecute him. “The highest privilege in the prison system is work release,” Hughes said, “and he blew it.” Hughes said the man is now serving a sentence for breaking and entering, larceny, and possession of marijuana. He has also served time for auto theft in New York. Security Officer Wayne King said companies working for the College are supposed to notify security if they employ any convicts on work release, but Southeastern Weatherproofing failed to do so. “That won’t happen again,” Hughes said. McManus has received a note of appreciation from Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, who supervises security. (See Arrest, page 7)

The proposal came from senior faculty members. Former History Professor Brown Patterson predicted then that the issue would “come up again in one or two years.” Faculty committees on tenure are “common practice” at American colleges and universities. (See Tenure, page 7)

Kiss & Siman capture editorship
By MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER
Staff Correspondent

Elizabeth Kiss and John Siman defeated Jean Soracco and Bill Purcell, 454 votes to 351, in Tuesday’s election for The Davidsonian editorship. Kiss and Siman will take office immediately after Christmas break. Both have worked on the newspaper staff since their freshman year, and most recently served as co-editors of the news section. They ran primarily on their experience but emphasized that they do plan to change The Davidsonian. They plan to expand features coverage with stories on student activities such as College Bowl, debate team, and ROTC. They also plan to expand sports coverage to include more women’s and minor sports. In the opinions section, Kiss and Siman would like to have more and shorter opinions columns, and to use satire occasionally. Also, they would like to periodically print student art and creative writing in a separate four-page section. During spring term, Siman will go on Davidson’s Classics Abroad program. When he re- (See Editors, page 5)

Rhodes nominees defeated at state level
By ANNE GOODWIN
Staff Writer

Four Davidson seniors were state candidates for Rhodes scholarships this year. Rob Campany, John Davis, Blaine Sanders, and David Waddill were interviewed by state selection committees this week. None advanced to the district level. The Rhodes scholarship, which provides for two or three years of study at Oxford University, is awarded to 32 American college seniors who demonstrate high academic performance, leadership, and interest in athletics. Nineteen Davidson alumni have been Rhodes scholars. Rob Campany, a philosophy major from Abingdon, Virginia, said he had wanted to apply for a Rhodes Scholarship for a long time. The English system of weekly discussion meetings with a tutor attracted him more than the “soak it up, feed it back” method he finds in some Davidson classes. Campany wanted to study moral and social and political philosophy at Oxford. He planned to examine the nature of political authority, the relationship between church and state—“the myth of the secular state” in his words—and the concept of the social welfare state. Campany is not certain about a career choice, but he said he leans towards teaching religion or ethics on the college level. He has also applied for the Luce and Fulbright scholarships. John Davis, also a philosophy major, is from Charlottesville, Virginia. He had “always thought about” applying for a Rhodes scholarship. Though he has enjoyed his liberal arts studies, he would now like to do more in-depth work. (See Rhodes, page 6)

Publication ceases
With this issue, The Davidsonian ceases publication until January 16, 1981.