Nocturnal Admissions
Mike Mason

One of the most prominent nightmares in my repertoire of bizarre and unhealthy dreams is a recent addition, brought on
by recent circumstances, but it has already caused me more grief than most of my other ephemeral terrors combined. It
has successfully plagued me for five consecutive nights, caused me to yell twice, and under its influence, I once attempted
osmosis with a quilted bedspread. It goes like this:

I am alone in my dorm room and am getting up to take a shower after a night of deep
slumber. Suddenly the door bursts open, and an eager, clean lad hurls himself through the door at me screaming, “Please,
tell me about Davidson! I know you know, and I'll never leave until I hear everything. Please, I’m from New
Jersey and there’s no other hope!” I quickly evade his grappling paws and escape into the hall, only to discover
that it is filled with an immense herd of prospective students. They see me, and led on by some tennis
recruit from Korea, they corner me by the window and drill me with questions, but there are too many, and
I can’t answer fast enough. Suddenly, one pushes his way through the crowd, and clutching my shirt, says, “Please, sir,
if I but touch the hem of your button-down, I too may understand self-selection.” This is too much, and as
I cry, “Find out for yourselves!” I push my way through the crowd into the bathroom, and once inside I
lock the doors and prop chairs against the handles. I breathe easier now, and am just beginning to relax when
I notice the lid of the commode being quietly lifted, and from within a horrible torso slowly rises. Beneath a
mop of dripping hair, its bloodshot eyes focus on me and gleam, and its arm rises nearer and nearer towards
me, as a terrible voice intones, “What...is...Honor System?” I crumple in a heap...

At about this point, I wake up in a cold sweat (hard to do with the heat in our room),
and discover that I am sleeping in a dresser drawer. After the last occurrence of this mental miscarriage, I decided
to seek a cure; and I sallied forth to the admissions office in order to discover exactly what it is
about prospective students that throws such turmoil into my otherwise catatonic somnolence. After engaging in the correct rituals (i.e., going
up to the desk and asking), I was finally allowed to see the great Admissions Ragu, who informed me that
my dreams were but premonitions of the future. Timorously, I asked the Ragu to be more specific, whereupon he enlightened
me with several perceptions. For instance, he revealed that the kid from New Jersey represented Davidson's growing efforts to draw
from the Northeast and to expand its reputation there. “Ohhhh,” I intelligently replied, for I was much impressed. “But what
of the crowd and the empty bathroom?” These, it turns out, are pictures of what has been (people flocking to
Davidson) and what will be (not so many flocking to Davidson) as the number of possible students dramatically decreases. “But
Ragu,” I cried, “what will become of Davidson’s much ballyhooed academic standards if it is forced to increase its recruitment
activity?”

(See Nightmares; page 11)

Mike Mason is a freshman.

The Faculty Is Getting Poorer
Robert Manning

There is no easy or graceful way to get into this article. It deals with money; specifically, the salaries that
Davidson pays to those of us who teach here. Those salaries are the primary topic of conversation at many faculty
gatherings these days, and to see why, consider a few of the findings of this year’s salary study, conducted by
the local chapter of the American Association of University Professors:

— Over the last decade, Davidson faculty salaries have declined about 10% in real (non-inflated) dollars;
— The average salary at Davidson, in 1979-80, is about $800 less than the average family income in Mecklenburg County
was in 1978;
— The typical Assistant Professor at Davidson was paid less well than a typical drafter or electronics technician in Mecklenburg
County, and only $166 better than the average auto mechanic during the same period.

If you find these statistics shocking or depressing, you're not alone. Most of us feel the same way. Moreover, evidence
is mounting that only action by the faculty as a whole, as opposed to individual appeal, can reverse the trend
of the last decade. Whatdo these statistics mean for individual families at Davidson? First, it should be observed that not
all faculty members feel the same economic pinch for the same reason. Senior professors, for example, are given retirement pay
based on their average salaries over the final years of their careers. For them, the promise of continued inflation demands
that these salaries be as high as possible, in order to avoid marked decreases in living standards in the future.
Faculty members whose children are in college are given tuition subsidies of up to 70% of Davidson's tuition per child
annually and were at Davidson when housing loans at annual interest rates of 4.5% were available. Yet, with Davidson’s annual
fee headed towards $6000, and with other similar institutions following suit, salaries are still stretched thin. But no group is
more catastrophically affected by Davidson’s salary squeeze than the Instructors and Assistant Professors, those who, for the most part, came
to Davidson in the seventies. These younger professors have no children of college age. Rather, most are struggling to raise
families in an era when home mortgages generally run to 12% or more (the College will subsidize these up to
2%), when taxes and Social Security eat up to one-third of their gross salaries, and when, as a result, most
of them find saving impossible. For such people, there seems little financial appeal in remaining in college teaching.

It is only fair to note that low faculty salaries are a national reality. A recent study in the New
Republic (December 1, 1979, p. 21) shows that salaries for college professors dropped 7.1% in real dollars during the period
1967-78, while those for blue-collar workers rose as much as 35% (for steelworkers) during the same period. But we ought
to observe as well that salaries at Davidson dropped 13% during the same period and have fallen 7% more since
then. The sad fact is that Davidson salaries (or, more precisely, compensation figures, which include annuities, housing grants, and the
like) have fallen significantly, relative to those colleges and universities with which we compete most heavily for students and faculty.
This should not be surprising, since it simply means that the small liberal arts college has been everywhere losing ground
to the university. We are all sinking together, which should give no one very much comfort. There remains as well
the suspicion that, when preparing our athletic budget (especially that portion spent in rocketing us towards Top Twenty Basketball), no
comparisons to Amherst and Williams are ever made. One strongly suspects that UCLA and Ohio State form the basis for
comparison here.

What can be done? Here the feeling of futility among concerned faculty members is overwhelming. Annual appeals to the Board
of Trustees for salary increases that merely cover the expected rise in the cost of living have annually gone unanswered.
The fraction of the college’s general expenditures given over to faculty compensation hit an all-time low in 1974-75, when it
reached 36.5%. Since that time, the values have gone from 36.5 to 35.6 to 34.9 to 33.7 and, this year,
to 32.6. Reversal of this trend is an obvious first step. Beyond that should surely be a re-examination of an
athletic policy that has allowed literally millions of dollars to be spent on a basketball program whose net record, for
the decade just ended, is 126-140. And, make no mistake, the changes need to come in a hurry. Faculty morale
is as low as I can remember it in twelve years; the number of established faculty members who have opportunities
to leave and who are likely to take advantage of those opportunities has never been higher; younger colleagues are openly
considering abandoning teaching for other careers. And why not? Given the kind of salary picture outlined in this article, why
would anyone concerned with earning even a moderate living consider a career in college teaching?

The Davidson administration does not feel that the use of these figures is fair and representative, since the comparison is
with larger universities, rather than with colleges of our own size and intellectual pretensions. It will instead offer a comparison
to Those Colleges With Which We Like To Compare Ourselves, colleges like Amherst, Swarthmore, Dickinson, Franklin & Marshall, and of
course, Williams. Such comparisons show us in a favorable light, which should not be surprising, since it simply means that
the small liberal arts college has been everywhere losing ground to the university. We are all sinking together, which should
give no one very much comfort.

Robert Manning is a Professor of Physics at Davidson.
