6—The Davidsonian—May 2, 1980

Features
New French restaurant features variety, guest chefs

By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

Next week, a new restaurant will be opening in the Davidson community. La Toque Blanche will occupy the building vacated
by The Coffee Cup on Depot Street. The proprietors hope to invite guest chefs who will cook their specialties in
the restaurant. Each chef for the night will wear “the chef's hat,” thus the restaurant’s name, La Toque Blanche.

Student art exhibit awards presented

By JOSEPHINE STUTTER
Staff Correspondent

This year’s annual student art exhibition is on display in Chambers Gallery and runs until Thursday, May 15th. It represents
a broad and diverse selection of student artistic interests during the '79-80 academic year.

Two factors limited the choices of Art Professors Herb Jackson and Russ Warren: namely, the amount of available space, which
restricted the number of large canvases that could be shown in the exhibition, and the timing of the exhibition to
coincide with Convocation which reduced the representation of advanced painting classes.

Juror Professor Emeritus Douglas Houchens gave the first award to Jeff Burns whose striking abstract acrylic work of contrasting vivid
colors and darker blank areas provokes either an enthusiastic or a non-committal response. This vigorous painting contrasts with the subtle
pastel coloring and three-dimensional effect of Lisa Jenkins’ impasto composition which gained her the second award. A personal favorite was
the work of the third prize winner Gifford Piercy whose evocative etchings had both a sensitivity and technical accomplishment which
was distinctive in an exhibition notable for individual expression rather than general proficiency.

Among the few watercolors, Andrea Lamorte’s abstract painting of pastel swirls was generally popular as was Sandy Fossett’s etching of
sunset on water and Paul Schultz’ scrupulously exact lithographs. Brett Logan was one of the artists who received an honorable
mention; his eye-catching abstract work contrasted with his more representational picture of swamp water trees painted in luminous primary colors.

Herb Jackson placed the emphasis of the exhibition on democratic rather than highly competitive criteria. Its purpose is “to celebrate
the activity of Davidson students in painting classes.” He stressed the fact that the exhibition consists of a judicious selection
of the work not of art majors but of the first efforts of other students at serious painting.

Owner and operator Bettie Casey, with the help of her husband Hugh, hopes to offer a variety of dining alternatives.
In addition to noon and evening meals, there will be coffee or tea with doughnuts and pastries during the ten
o’clock hour. The restaurant will offer international cuisine. At noon, a light meal will be served consisting of soup and
salad. The evening meal will be more elaborate with individual dishes representing various nationalities. But all meals will be served
in the French fashion: a number of courses, each with small portions of food.

There will be a fixed price menu which will be posted in a box outside the restaurant and will vary
daily. Some nights simple three-course meals will be served to appeal to student customers; other nights the cuisine will be
more elaborate. Hugh Casey will bake pastries and authentic French bread to accompany the meals.

There is a small bar which will offer aperitifs and other drinks. And, an unusual treat for this area, wine
will be included in the price of the meal. Customers may be offered a different wine with each course.

The restaurant is small so that only two dozen people will be served each night. The decor is simple but
pleasant. Bettie Casey suggested that the atmosphere will be relaxed, “the dinner should last well into the evening. People can
sit around and talk much as they do in restaurants in France.” She has been “delving into French cooking for
the past twenty years,” and has studied it in France and taught a course in Charlotte.

The restaurant will operate on a reservation-only basis. Customers may call 892-1412 for reservations.

DAVIDSON INFERNO LIGHT-UP AT 7:30 ON MAY 14 LOVE AUDITORIUM

Betty Carey in her toque blanche.

(Trey Thies)

Add experience to your degree.

Army ROTC.

The world can be big and bad for some. For others it looks much easier. Survival means different things to
different people. Is it luck or preparation?

Preparation seems to be the key. Consider the leadership training and management skills you can develop in Army ROTC. The
edge. That margin of difference that can put you ahead in the big, bad world of tough job competition.

You may be a sophomore. Or have just two years remaining in school. It’s not too late to add Army
ROTC. And add experience to your degree. Contact

Ph. 692-2000 Ext 170

Learn what it takes to lead.
