Two dorms and Commons will be ready in September

By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

The two new dorms and the Dining Commons will open as scheduled in September 1981. The buildings may be complete by this summer. One dorm will probably be all-male and the other co-ed, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. The Commons will replace Richards and Bailey houses as the main dining facility on campus. Richards will be relocated between Rusk and PAX and Bailey between ETC and Fannie and Mabel’s.

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze said Richards and Bailey will not be moved until the Commons is finished. The new dorms are designed to provide housing variety, with carpeted halls and modern furnishings, Bolding said. Dean of Students Will Terry and Bolding have already chosen the color scheme for the dorms. Bolding said he will order mattresses and furnishings in the next week or two.

Once the new dorms are complete, Center Duke may be reserved for women only, Bolding said. This would compensate for the lack of single rooms available on campus to women. There are now only four such rooms. Under this arrangement, two students instead of three would live in the two-room suites in Center Duke.

SGA (Continued from page 1)

to requests for their support. The Peregrine House is providing supper for the 30 callers each night, and prizes are being offered by several Charlotte businesses. Calling takes place from 6 to 9:30 p.m. in the Gallery of Chambers. A running tally of contributions is being kept outside the Gallery. Students interested in helping should contact Genevra Kelly, McNair Helm, or the night chairpersons posted in the dorms.

Elections upcoming

Sign-ups begin this week for the campus-wide elections to be held Tuesday, December 16. The positions available are: Union Board (President, Co-curricular Vice Chairman, Social Chairman), Y Student Service Corps (President, Vice-President, Davidsonian editor, Secretary, Treasurer), Cranks editor, Miscellany editor, Wildcat Handbook editor, and Quips and Cranks editor. Students should sign up in the Dean of Students office by next Tuesday.

WDAV raising funds

WDAV is now in the midst of its second annual fundraising drive, with a goal of $35,000. The seven-day drive ends Sunday. As of 4:30 Wednesday, the station had collected $9,175 from 343 contributors, station Community Relations Director Henry Doss said. WDAV’s operating budget is $112,000 for fiscal year 80-81, of which $50,000 is given by the college, Doss said. The remainder of WDAV’s $62,000 share should come from regular membership renewals, Doss said. The station plans to concentrate later this year on increasing corporate support.

WDAV has also recently received an FCC license for a new transmitter tower. The new tower, which Doss said will be operational “within a few months,” will be 48 feet higher than the old one and 6 miles closer to Charlotte, giving WDAV a much clearer signal in the city. In addition, it will increase the station’s signal strength from 18,500 to 20,000 watts.

Debaters win

Davidson debaters won six trophies and the Sweepstakes prize for best overall showing at the Appalachian Mountain Forensics Tournament last month. Twenty-eight colleges and universities participated in the tournament. Junior Bobby Ervin and sophomore Marvin Overby won first place in the traditional debate category. Overby won top speaker of the tournament while Ervin tied for second. In a new category, cross-examination debate, sophomores Sherburne Laughlin and Tracy Thompson posted a 5-1 record, losing only in the semi-finals. Thompson won second speaker in the division. Freshmen Mary Fant and Jim Morgan achieved a 4-2 record in the traditional category.

Visit the Christian Library located in the Choir Loft of Lingle Chapel (DCPC)

By STEPHANIE MOFFETT
Staff Correspondent

The College has nearly finished construction of horse stables at the Lake Campus. The stable, built this fall at a cost of $35,000, already houses 12 horses and can accommodate up to 14. The College will use the stable for its riding program, which teaches students on weekends. The program offers lessons in dressage, fox hunting, and English style riding for riders of different levels of skill. Williams organized an intercollegiate riding team in October that competes against ten colleges, including Duke, South Carolina, and Virginia Tech.serves both students and the public. Director of Physical Education Sterling Martin said for the most part volunteers—both students and local people—run the riding program. Junior Ann Williams, one of several instructors, said students teach riding lessons on weekdays. Kathleen Emmert, a College employee who works and lives at the lake campus, initiated the riding program when she donated a substantial amount of money and offered the use of her land to the College. Because of this, the College moved the program to the Lake Campus. Martin said the College will soon put up $6,000 worth of fences around three pastures so the horses will continue to have a place to graze. He explained that the field now in use is almost over-grazed. Martin hopes to find a donor to help finance the developing program. For example, he said a tractor is needed to fertilize the pastures. Eventually, however, he expects the program will support itself with the income from riding lessons. The riding program is only part of a larger plan for Lake Campus development. "To develop the potential of the Lake Campus would be a real asset to the College," he said. Martin hopes that the College will be able to construct a covered picnic area in the near future. Later, the College might build a large lodge which could accommodate up to 50 people and be used for conferences, summer programs, and retreats. (David McCurry)

Charlotte developer gets Town’s OK
By CATHEY BOST
Staff Writer

The Davidson Town Board has given Synco, Inc., a Charlotte-based developer, a Special Use permit to begin construction of a housing development. The permit granted at the Board's November 10 meeting allows Synco to build 20 houses on a lakefront tract of land off of Griffith Street, the road leading to I-77. The Board granted the permit with ten conditions. According to Mayor Nancy MacCormac, these include requirements for Synco to specify the date of completion of the project, to abide by all town subdivision ordinances, to prohibit the construction of private docks, and to incorporate any limitations on boat horsepower established by the town into the Homeowner Association’s regulations. Synco may only build 20 houses because that is the maximum the sewer line at Griffith Street can now handle, MacCormac added. Synco had no objections to the Board’s ruling, MacCormac said, but did request legal clarification of the requirement to specify dates of completion. Town Attorney Richard Kline will report on the condition at the Board meeting next Tuesday. Synco Project Officer John Yelverton was not available for comment. Last month he told The Davidsonian Synco would begin construction "as soon as possible" after the issuance of a permit.

North Carolina Water Skiing School owner Russ Debuc, whose school is located across the lake from the development site, submitted a proposal to the Board to limit horsepower of boats only on the development side of the lake. This would allow the school to continue to operate its high-powered water-ski boats on its side of the lake. MacCormac said there has been no discussion of Debuc’s proposal. Debuc refused to comment on the Board's decision. There still remain a few unresolved questions about the development, MacCormac said. The first is the question of public versus private streets. Next Tuesday’s meeting will include a public hearing on revising the town’s subdivision ordinances to allow for the waiver of some construction requirements in the case of roads within a subdivision. If the ordinances are revised, MacCormac said, Synco may build narrower, curbless roads, as it had originally planned. The second is the question of whether the town has jurisdiction over use of the lake. While the town, as a partner to the development’s Homeowner Association, may regulate the land use requirements established by the association, legislation and enforcement of water use restrictions is not delegated to any official body, MacCormac explained. Establishing such jurisdiction will involve "clarification at the state legislative level," MacCormac said, and could take a year. "It is an interesting legal question, with no direct, easy answers," she said, which will "require additional legal and political activity."