Norman Koller

After seven years I am leaving Davidson, but I would like to leave some parting thoughts. I am going to miss many of my colleagues very much. I will always feel fortunate to have known many people here, including faculty, staff, and students, as well as many in Davidson not associated with the college. Although I had other options at the time, I was attracted to Davidson by its claim to “emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to ensure the opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers.” Davidson seemed to offer a real alternative, for both professors and students, to the large, impersonal schools which seem to emphasize everything but excellence in the classroom.

I don’t believe I could have made a greater commitment in time and energy than I have here. I regularly put in 60 or 70 hour weeks teaching one of the highest loads at the college, developing new courses, teaching above the normal course load, sponsoring internships and independent studies, and, during the past three years, coaching the cross country team. As the time for a tenure decision drew near, I felt I had every reason to expect a positive decision. President Spencer had said, on a number of occasions, that there would be no “tenure quota” here. In addition, he indicated that every effort would be made not to keep faculty for six years if there were indications that they might not be given tenure, as this would unnecessarily injure their careers. Such statements seemed to reflect a genuine concern for the younger, untenured faculty.

Even though I never received an evaluation, either formally or informally, from the administration prior to tenure, I felt confident in light of feedback from colleagues, student course evaluations, and above-average salary increases. I also felt, in spite of the fact that there were three different academic deans and a lack of continuity in expectations during this time, that an administration with the least amount of concern would surely have indicated in some way if I needed to strengthen a weakness or put more emphasis in some area.

Coaching men’s cross country and organizing the first women’s cross country team proved exhausting, and I returned to my office nearly every night in order that teaching and other activities not suffer. When I was asked by the athletic department, with President Spencer’s permission, to become involved in coaching, I considered this the kind of extraordinary commitment only possible at a school like Davidson. Although I enjoyed this work, it was certainly not the kind of activity I would have gotten involved in if I thought there were any chance of being released by the college. Because no effort was made to bring in a permanent coach, I sought a meeting with President Spencer prior to my second year of coaching (and well over a year before the tenure decisions). I was certainly not interested in jeopardizing my teaching career in the face of an ever-tightening job market based on “publish or perish.” President Spencer seemed to understand my position and the time involved in running the program. I left his office assured that I had his endorsement and blessing to continue offering a “highly valued service.”

During the year or so prior to the tenure decision, there were indications that tenure would be more difficult to obtain and that the college would be shifting its policies to retain the flexibility of a larger number of untenured faculty positions. This, of course, reflects a national trend and is seen by many as a necessary response to hard economic times and an oversupply of Ph.D.’s. Large, prestigious universities expect that many, perhaps most, will not be tenured. Scholarship takes a heavy precedence over teaching in light of demanding criteria and intense competition. Periodic evaluation and review is crucial for the young faculty member to manage his time and to compete.

I can point to nothing in the tenure decisions which reflects an understanding of or concern for the faculty member. If evaluations are desirable, why were they not given? They have since been instituted under Dean Zimmerman, but this is of little help for those who served under the past unclear administrative procedures. I personally feel grossly deceived, bled dry, and humiliated. College policies are not unrelated to the high turnover in faculty.

“Not too FIFTEEN BUCKS DO NOT HAVE, I HATE TO BE A MISER. BUT YOU DON’T HAVE TO TOW MY CAR: THE KEYS ARE ON THE VISOR.”Effectively, in the six years absence of any indication that I should have allotted my time differently, and with, in fact, considerable encouragement in my efforts, I saw no reason for concern. I had sacrificed looking attractive on the job market by being overly committed to teaching and college and community activities. This, I believed, was what made Davidson special. I found it impossible to even imagine that the rules would be changed at the end of the game and that I would be sacrificed for essentially economic reasons. I was wrong. Nothing in my life prepared me for the shock of the tenure decision. My experiences here have been totally colored by the nightmare of this past year and the administration’s evasive efforts to defend their position. Spencer’s explanation that “though periodic evaluations are desirable in examining untenured faculty, they have not been considered essential,” is a defense, not an explanation, and of little comfort for those who were given no evaluations.

“Large” is President Spencer's response to the number of professors leaving Davidson at the end of this year. “A significant turnover can be an advantage,” he adds. Indeed, in what way? Some of Davidson’s finest teachers are leaving and others, who are going on leave, have indicated privately that they will probably not return. They can, however, be replaced by less expensive one and two-year “replacements” whose primary orientation is to moving on. The college budget will be the primary beneficiary at the expense of the educational program. The college professes one thing but delivers another. I have come to expect that official college statements are sometimes “colored” to assure good public relations. I recoil, however, from anything that does not reflect the truth and I think it is a shame that administrative decisions necessitate a coverup.

Spencer told the student senate that all those considered could have been given tenure if they had met the lofty ideals of the code of evaluation. A trustee, on the other hand, indicated in a private conversation that it was the trustees’ expectation that was not consulted in any way. Nor was I given an opportunity to discuss the matter with any member of the administration prior to the decision. President Spencer's depiction of an “agonizing weighing of all evidence” seems empty rhetoric as I was left holding much “evidence” which was never submitted because no one told me it was necessary. In a conference last fall which Dean Zimmermann hinted at, but did not elaborate on, other “weaknesses” which I think only reflect the extent the administration is out of touch with my activities and what is going on in my own department. In sum, I feel the tenure decision in my case was one of convenience for an administration faced with maintaining more untenured teaching positions.

The faculty is understandably cautious about their standing in the institution which affords them a livelihood. Among the several regrets I have had about Davidson is the reluctance, which I have shared, of the faculty to have the moral courage to act. We make lofty claims about honoring the heroes of the past but show little heroism ourselves. As Ralph Nader, in his recent talk here, characterized much institutional behavior, “we get along by going along.” The authority structure provides a powerful opponent and we have much to lose.

A second major regret is what I have seen Davidson unnecessarily do to many students. Some of the most lasting lessons learned here are not taught in the classroom. The student is often in a unique position to contrast what he experiences on a day-to-day basis with the image which attracted him here in the first place. Hypocrisy and double standards are not easily hidden. The tenure decisions were merely another event which bewildered and angered many students. New, straightforward leadership, combined with an unwavering sense of fairness and real caring, is needed to replace the fatalistic cynicism which is all too common. I came to love Davidson for what it might be: I’m deeply disturbed by what it too often is. I hope the future brings better days.

Seven years ago a professor leaving Davidson wrote: “There is a general atmosphere in recent times that makes me think the soul of this place could be had for 30 pieces of silver” (The Davidsonian, May 18, 1973). The price, who, and Zeigler, was denied tenure in May, 1979...