April 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Humanity Comes First
Steve Austin

Are we citizens or human beings? Last week’s Davidsonian articles by Messrs. Reilly and Newman would suggest the former. According
to them, the state has some sort of supramoral claim on us. When the Liberty Bell is rung, we temporarily
forget about our values as we reach for our guns. Obviously, as citizens, we do have the duty to fight.
“Citizen” by its very definition requires the support of society. As is apparent through history, that support means the willingness
to bear arms when the society is threatened. No one is going to deny that the very survival of any
state will depend at some point on its military forces. Simply speaking, the United States will not stand for long
if we cut out the Department of Defense. This is the “practicality” that supporters of the draft point to with
assurance: “We don’t want to fight, but we must.”

In reality, this practical approach is only a sell-out of one’s basic humanity. Men are not, in any final sense,
“citizens.” Whether one follows in the Judeo-Christian tradition or holds a secular humanism of some sort, man is first and
foremost a self-determining individual. According to scriptural revelation, he is in the image of God. According to Descartes, he is
at bottom a “thinking being.” Kant calls men “ends in themselves.” This can mean only one thing: a man is
human only when he acts according to what he can genuinely perceive as the truth. Unconsciously serving the needs of
the community is the duty of the citizen—not the man.

Ideally, then, a state should never encourage its citizens to bear arms. Rather it should clearly present both sides of
the issues and require that each individual make up his own mind. The decision to fight is an extremely difficult
and momentous one to make. When society makes the decision, the citizens involved have lost a lot of their basic
humanity.

Skeptics will scoff at the idea of asking individuals whether they want to fight or not. If the United States
becomes involved in combat, they argue, it may well be that no one will agree to fight—let us hope so.
In any case, whether society falls should not be a self-perpetuating decision made by the society itself. The point is
that the only ones who should fight are those who see a reason for doing so. Let me quickly add
that this is not to suggest the relative morality of war. It is to say that armed conflict must not
become separated from the more significant search for truth. The pacifist versus soldier debate has too often assumed a simplistic
either-or nature. The morality of war is not easy to determine; the person who says differently is not fully considering
the issue. For my own sake, the immorality of all inter-societal conflict is convincing.

Best Caption Wins A Free Subscription To The Davidsonian

Commons Bolsters Athletics
Mike Mason

The proposition that athletics will always be an important part of the Davidson environment has stood on shaky ground in
the past weeks, primarily because of the awesomely nebulous Budget Cut. Last week, however, Davidson Freshmen received the chance to
use their bodies in places other than Richardson; as a part of the extremely well-funded Freshman Physical Fitness Program, the
immense area in front of Richards and Bailey houses has been converted into the Slater Memorial Obstacle Course (so named
after the man who gave the word “runs” a whole new dimension). On it, the average freshman may engage in
a variety of body-building activities, such as making the body run towards the building, making the body run away from
the building, and making the body run into the building. A popular activity thus far has been “Bulldozer Evasion.” While
performing this feat, the freshman skitters about the obstacle course in front of the raised bulldozer.» Razor teeth and steel
treads of a derelict bulldozer, avoiding various pits and mounds, all the while attempting to force an entry into Richards
House despite the line. (It should be noted that many freshman athletes, upon barely making it into the house, have
beheld the salad bar from the front door and elected to return outside and face the bulldozer instead of remaining.
Such is the power of our French dressing.)

One amazing aspect of the new obstacle course is that it never remains the same. Men and machines work daily
for the express purpose of altering the course for freshman amusement. Thus, one of the favorite freshman athletic events is
“Guess Where the Surprise Pit Will Appear.” An eager daredevil charges off the edge of the dirt cliff on the
Belk side going towards Slater, and he hopes to encounter dirt six feet below. This does not always prove the
case; one superlative athlete charged madly at the precipice without looking and wound up in the bottom of a newly
dug trench, where he probably still remains despite efforts to rescue him for his car keys.

Someone has even kindly placed telescopes on the course so that spectators can watch athletes charging up and down cliffs,
plunging impetuously into mounds of dirt, and generally just improving themselves. Today the maintenance crews also installed clever trip wires,
which will probably be hooked to mines next week, thus both providing freshmen with athletic entertainment and solving the population
problem of the freshman class at the same time.

And now we (the committee) have the first monthly Aureal Obstacle Course Awards to announce.

For the Stupidest Attempt of the Month:
Paul Griffith, for attempting to push-start a bulldozer—from the front.

For the Most Subtle Comment of the Month:
Ellen Churchill, who was overheard remarking, “What the hell is this?”

For Most Dedicated Service to the Obstacle Course:
Lisa Robinson, who has chosen the course as the only place she will not sunbathe in the next month so
as not to “mess up the nice mud.”

Rumors circulate, however, that the Administration is considering turning the new course into the Freshman Commons, to which we say
“poppycock.” It would make little sense to go to the trouble and expense to which the school has gone, to
make a simple building out of it. Besides, considering the state of the athletic budget, we need this outlet desperately.

This brings us to another point, however. Despite continuing proclamations to the contrary from the administration, it is becoming increasingly
apparent that the $85,000 athletic budget cut is indeed going to harm our athletics program, especially considering the rearrangement of
coaching positions into “umbrella” positions—that is, positions which must coach more than one sport. A moderate amount of this has
always been the case, but the expansion of this practice could seriously compromise the adequacy of athletics coaching. And the
most frustrating aspect of this is that the exact extent of the budget cut won't be announced until the summer—too
late for student input, at any rate.

And yet we have plans to raise over $3.6 million for construction in the next few years. So you see,
frolicking among the construction sites for exercise may not be as ridiculous as it sounds. Consider: the next time you
take riding lessons, it may be on top of a bulldozer.

Mike Mason writes a highly irregular column for The Davidsonian.

It is inconceivable how anyone could, conscientiously and thoughtfully, justify war, especially with modern weapons. At the same time, Hitler's
aggression in the light of New Testament justice is a hard thing to overcome. I must agree with Mr. Reilly
that we should be “men of principles.” However, let us also make sure that those principles are ones that we
as individuals—not as society—have purposefully adopted. In short, let us be human beings.

Steve Austin is a religion major.
