(Continued from page 1) basis by paying board bills the same way they pay tuition.” The intent of this is consistent with that of the PCC penalty system. The system is designed to make students aware that when they join a house they are committing themselves for one year. Members now pay board bills every term, but this period is used for purposes of convenience only. Paying board fees for a year at a time would be financially burdensome to many students, and budgeting and planning for a year ahead would make the already difficult job of treasurers even harder. However, students must realize that a house’s continued economic stability depends on a long-term, carefully considered commitment by each student, and the PCC statement of intent and fine is a means of ensuring this commitment is both recognized and fulfilled. We, the members of the PCC—as house members and students ourselves—are not blind to the disadvantages of the penalty system. We realize it reduces flexibility and inter-house mobility. However, we feel that every Davidson student must take responsibility for the future of the system if it is to survive. The PCC has implemented the penalty system to encourage this type of commitment, and we feel it can work with the support and cooperation of students. The article was unanimously approved at the October 29, 1980 meeting of the PCC by the following members: Elizabeth Alexander, David Barkley, Fess Crockett, Keith Hearle, Bryan Kelleher, Sally Neal, Peter Neefus, Tim Newcomb, Jim Northrup, Mitch Shirley, Betsey Thomas, Liz Upchurch, Ruth Ann Westervelt, and Bill Wilson.

Forum (Continued from page 1) after the election. In addition, Wells noted that in the four years Carter has been in office, there has been a real increase in military spending, reversing an eight-year trend of decreasing defense budgets under two Republican administrations. Sude argued that the operation of America’s foreign policy has declined from the days of John Foster Dulles, whom he called “a man of action,” to Cyrus Vance, who “overtalks.” Sude accused Carter of having a vacillating foreign policy in a world which views vacillation as a weakness. Sude called the SALT II treaty outdated and said that Reagan, if elected, would work for a new treaty from scratch. Fryberger pointed out that Anderson, as a former foreign service officer, is experienced in the international field. One of Anderson’s basic beliefs is that “power abroad is a function of power at home,” according to Fryberger. Fryberger insisted that the U.S. must not be dependent on other nations for either energy or security. He pointed out that a full seven years after the Arab oil embargo, the United States is still being “held hostage” to Middle Eastern oil. Fryberger said that, if elected, Anderson will take steps to reduce and eventually eliminate this dependence. He also said that Anderson strongly supports the SALT process and will push for ratification of both the SALT II and SALT III accords. Finally, Fryberger reaffirmed Anderson’s commitment to support freedom fighters around the world. The major issue in foreign affairs, according to Stell, is the use of force. Stell said the Libertarian Party rejects the view that the United States should project a powerful military presence abroad and use this power to achieve its ends. Vietnam, just a few years behind us, should not be forgotten. But none of the candidates besides Clark, Stell pointed out, have addressed the issue of the Vietnam War, except for Reagan once referring to it as a “noble cause.” America should learn its lesson from Vietnam, Stell said. The Libertarians have learned the lesson and stand for a defense posture which provides security for the United States without regard to the security of other countries.

Wells began her comments about domestic policy by observing that there have been many changes since Reagan last held public office in 1974. The complexity of our economy, Wells said, makes it impossible for the government to simply eliminate inflation. The Carter administration was committed, however, to an economic policy which would not hurt the poor, but would decrease the federal budget and set voluntary wage and price standards. In addition, Wells said, Carter is committed to coal, energy conservation, the use of renewable energy resources, civil service employment, the Humphrey/Hawkins full employment measures, and welfare reform. Wells quoted Republican vice-presidential candidate George Bush in referring to Reagan’s plan for a thirty percent tax cut as “true economic voodoo.” The Republican candidate, she added, advocated an energy policy supportive of the energy industry. Wells also criticized Reagan’s plan to eliminate the minimum wage. Reagan is “intellectually the best choice” in domestic issues, Sude said. Reagan backs a capitalistic system of public control rather than a socialistic one of state control. Sude said that capitalism maximizes invention and development, whereas socialism optimizes only distribution. In response to Wells’ accusations, Sude said oil companies are not inherently bad and that their profits are only two percent a year. Reagan stands for reforming social programs, not eliminating them, according to Sude. In addition, Sude claimed thatHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

States can operate well with their own money and that there is no reason for that money to be routed through Washington and then sent back to the states. Finally, Sude noted that under Carter administration policies, exports account for only six percent of our Gross National Product, although seventeen percent is normal for an industrial nation. Reagan, he said, will raise this percentage by encouraging industrial exports, especially by small and medium-sized corporations.

Fryberger said Anderson would reduce inflation by limiting the amount of money printed and by keeping American capital at home. This could best be started, he said, by decreasing American dependence on imported oil with a heavy tax on gasoline. Anderson, Fryberger said, would put American capital back to work, thus decreasing unemployment. Anderson stands for "a rebuilding of America" which would involve retooling of factories, aid to inner cities and trust funds for financially troubled cities, more mortgage subsidies, more public transportation (especially railroads), and a major restructuring of public education. Finally, Fryberger outlined Anderson’s plans for revisions of the tax code to help America’s farmers.

Both Republicans and Democrats increase inflation because both encourage deficit spending, Stell said. Libertarians, on the other hand, call for tax cuts, not just limits on tax increases. Stell then outlined Clark’s economic policy. Clark would increase the zero tax bracket to $7500 and call for a fifty percent cut in all other tax brackets. In addition, he said, Libertarians would repeal federal gift taxes and the windfall profits tax. According to Stell, this would result in a 180 billion dollar tax cut in the first year. To offset this, there would be a 201 billion dollar cut in federal spending. Stell said that 50 billion of this would come from the defense department budget.

Artist (Continued from page 6)

Successful efforts. A new freedom of technique is obtained in his patching them back together. His range of color has been further polluted with more experimental mixing of hues, resulting in richer, calmer colors. A simplification is evident with the triangles becoming larger and fewer in number. The arrangement is often symmetrical with a mirroring of triangles along a broken axis. The triangle edges and transitions are no longer razor sharp vacuums of white, as before, but are filled with layers of irregular strokes of bright thick paint. Those powerful lines along with the textural surface colors energize the canvas and save these later works from the weakness and faults present in Postma’s earlier works.

(Continued from page 1)

The Athletics Department will face reduced funding, Davidson said. In fact, work is now in progress to determine how much each sport received from last year’s budget. In 1978-79, the last year for which figures are available, 30% of the athletics budget ($212,000) went to football; 27% ($193,000) to basketball; 28% ($199,000) to other sports; and 15% ($103,000) to physical education, according to figures released last year by College President Samuel Spencer. The athletics budget does not include athletics scholarships or game expenses, Davidson said. These two items cost $389,000 in 1978-79, but were partially offset by $291,000 in game income and contributions from the Wildcat Club.

Physical Plant

The College spent $1.2 million to operate and maintain the physical plant in 1979-80, Davidson said. This expense includes the upkeep of the College grounds and the academic buildings, the payment of utilities, and the cost of campus security. Davidson said $1.2 million has been budgeted for the physical plant for this year, but expects the College will exceed that figure. He explained that emergency expenses -- repair of broken power lines, for example -- necessitate spending beyond what the College budgets for the physical plant. There is a contingency fund to cover anticipated emergency outlays, Davidson said.

Auxiliary Enterprises

The College spent $2.2 million -- about 20 percent of its operating budget -- on auxiliary enterprises in 1979-80, according to Davidson. The auxiliary enterprises are generally break-even operations for the College. They are funded and used almost exclusively by students and include the dormitories, the student store, the laundry, the Patterson Court eating houses, Carnegie Guest House, and a few smaller operations.

General Institutional Expenses

General institutional expenses include "almost everything imaginable," Davidson said, and cost the College $1.1 million in 1979-80, 10% of the operating budget. The Development Department, the President’s office, and Communications Department account for half of these expenses. The rest goes for staff benefits and general expenses, which include legal fees, maintenance agreements on office machines, computer service, Convocation and Commencement, professional association dues, and several other items.

Other Expenditures

The rest of the budget -- $2.3 million or 21% in 1978-79 -- funds the following, according to Davidson:
— $297,000 or 3% for administrative costs, which includes the President’s Office, the Business Office, the Comptroller's office, and the Personnel Office;
— $639,000 or 6% for student services, which include the Admissions Office, College Union activities not funded by the student activity fee, the infirmary, the Registrar’s Office, the Dean of Students’ Office, Counseling services, the minister to students, and the Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning Office;
— $521,000 or 4.8% for the library;
— $657,000 or 6.0% for financial aid awarded by the College; and
— $200,000 or 2% contributed towards the building of new dormitories.

---

Angel (Continued from page 6)

Helen, Kevin Esposito as Luke, Pat Donely as Eugene, Charles Lovett as Hugh, Ed Gaynor as Will, Laurie Campbell as Laura, Martha Farrar as Mrs. Pert, Kimberly Weiss as Mrs. Clatt, David Dusseault as Jake Clatt, Suzann Smith as Miss Brown, Laura Singleton as Mrs. Snowden, Roy Fuller as Mr. Farrel, Nelson Simon as Dr. Maquire, and Cindy Faulkenberry as Mme. Elizabeth.