2—The Davideonian—October 31, 1980

(Continued from page 1)

courses, you think the student, working with an advisor, doesn’t have the maturity to make intelligent choices,” English Professor Gil
Holland said. Both students and faculty questioned the committee's reasoning in establishing requirements as specific as taking economics, western civilization,
and a religion course within the Christian tradition. Political Science Department Chairman Harris Proctor said his department had agreed “unanimously”
that the proposed social sciences requirement was too specific. “You could make as strong a case for political science as
for economics,” Proctor said, “students should be able to choose for themselves.” EPC member and Psychology Department Chairman John Kelton
responded to similar objections from students by saying that economics consists of a “fairly unique set of information” and should
be treated separately. Mathematics Department Chairman Bruce Jackson said he is “fairly strongly opposed to a competency type of mathematics
requirement.” Jackson said he will speak with the EPC about it.

Students were particularly vocal in their objections over the addition of a fourth term to the foreign language requirement. Junior
Rusty King pointed out the case of the student who has no interest in learning a foreign language. “Why can’t
we tailor each person's education to his own needs?” King asked. Others called for improvements in the present three-term course
sequence, which sophomore Ridgely Medlin termed “not a very good course. It would be superficial and boring.” Members of the
foreign language departments argued that the fourth term is necessary even if the first three are changed. More time is
needed for “assimilation and repetition,” according to French Professor Singerman. Spanish Department Chairperson Lois Kemp said, “Language cannot be absorbed
too fast—it’s got to be used as it is absorbed.” Kemp recommended that the College invite an outside team to
examine and make recommendations about Davidson's entire language program. She also suggested that more innovative ways to teach language be
considered, such as intensive summer institutes or courses giving two credits in one term.

The EPC proposal specified that all courses which satisfy distribution requirements be “basic courses”—courses which provide a broad overview of
the methods and topics of the discipline. Some professors supported this provision because of its practical effects. Narrowing the range
of courses that satisfy the area requirement may make course registration easier, according to History Professor David Shi. Registrar Richard
Burts agreed that the provision would make planning for registration easier. If there are only a few courses in a
department which can be used to satisfy the distribution requirement, Burts explained, it would be more stimulating for a student
to examine an area in depth. “We're trying to help students learn to think for themselves,” Holland said, “and your
best thinking happens in the upper-level courses, not in survey courses.” “Freedom is the whole idea behind education,” he added,
“A core can be a dangerous concept, like relying on anthologies—you’re at the mercy of the editor.”

By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Correspondent

This term, the Davidson French Department is offering a revised French 20 course, which emphasizes oral rather than grammar skills.
French Professor Alan Singerman developed the new program. Singerman is at Davidson on a one-year visiting professorship from the University
of Maine. French Professor Charles Dockery also teaches a section of the revised French 20 course. Singerman said he feels
students did not do enough oral practice.

Laundry (Continued from page 1)

was well worth the money in terms of the time and effort it saved them. If the laundry offered a
choice of full, partial, or no service, 51 percent of the students said they would use the full service offered
now, while 47 percent would choose a partial service. Only two percent said they would choose to use no service
at all. Of the men, 71 percent indicated they would choose the full service and 29 percent partial service, while
25 percent of the women chose the full service, 70 percent the partial service, and 4 percent no service. Daniel
said the committee at its second meeting discussed...the possibility of offering students a “mini-plan” of partial service. If such a
service were offered, Daniel said, the fee for other students might be increased to make up for the reduction in
income caused by the switch. For example, every student’s laundry fee might increase by five dollars. The ad hoc committee
wants to survey the student body to determine exactly which services students want and to know their reactions to a
possible fee increase. The solution to the laundry problem remains “very much in the formative stages,” Daniel said.

Classwork used to emphasize readings in French literature, work in the language lab, and grammar exercises. Under the new approach,
French 20 classes concentrate on practical conversation work. For example, students discuss filmstrips and cassettes in class. Quizzes are given
frequently so that students will have feedback about how well they are doing in the course. Also, several compositions are
required. Half the class meets every other day so that students have more time to concentrate on their outside study
and can meet in smaller in-class groups. Initially, students were frightened at the prospect of so much independent oral study,
according to Singerman, but they have learned to accept their responsibility. Pacing is not a problem for each student decides
on his own how much time he needs to spend outside of class. The French department is planning to modify
its French course next term, also reducing the emphasis on grammar and stressing oral work instead, Singerman said.

Student Directory out soon
By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Correspondent

The student directory will be out sometime next week, according to Communications Director John Slater. The directory is published annually
by the Communications Department and provided free of charge to all students. It lists the names, room numbers, phone numbers,
home addresses, and parents' names of all Davidson students, plus addresses and phone numbers of the faculty and staff. At
the beginning of the term, the FIJIs printed a directory listing the names and room numbers plus most of the
phone numbers of on-campus students. The FIJI directory, which cost $1, did not include information on off-campus students, faculty, and
staff or students participating in the Junior Year Abroad program. The school directory, on the other hand, includes this information
and is more complete and accurate, Slater said. As a result, it takes longer to publish. Because this is his
first year at Davidson, Slater said that he was not aware of the intricacies involved in gathering and updating the
necessary information. He said that next year he hopes to have the directory out sooner. The FIJIs are planning to
publish their directory again next year. FIJI member Jim Troutman said that it provides a good service for the students
until the school directory comes out later in the term.

No Development interviews

There is “nothing to report” concerning the selection of a new Vice President for Development, according to College President Samuel
Spencer. The Vice President for Development directs all college fundraising activities. The position has been vacant since July 1, when
former Vice President Duane Dittman resigned.

WDSR to go on air Friday

WDSR, Davidson's student-run carrier current radio station, will go on the air this Friday. Station spokesman John Odell said the
posters put up around campus this week announcing that the station was on the air were a week early. WDSR,
at 580 on the AM dial, will broadcast from 7 a.m. to 12 midnight Monday through Friday, 10 a.m. to
10 p.m. on Saturdays, and 10 a.m. to 12 midnight on Sundays, Odell said. The station’s programming will be “mixed,”
featuring all types of music except classical, according to Odell. Disc jockeys will do air shifts of one to two
hours. “We're always looking for new disc jockeys,” he added.

Film & Processing? Kodak & Polaroid
Contact Lenses? Hard and Soft

SADLER SQUARE
DAVIDSON, N.C. 892-7211

“MEL BROOKS’ MASTERPIECE” Hollis Alpert SATURDAY REVIEW
“YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN” GENE WILDER, PETER BOYLE, MARTY FELDMAN, CLORIS LEACHMAN, KENNETH MARS, MADELINE KAHN
MICHAEL GRUSKOFF, MEL BROOKS, GENE WILDER, MEL BROOKS, MARY W. SHELLEY, JOHN MORRIS
Rated PG

Friday night 8 & 10:30
$1.50 or Season Pass
Parents Free
