The English View
Lulu Kempster

Don’t deny that the unenlightened American has certain preconceived ideas about Englishmen. An austere crank, oozing in tradition in pinstripe suit and bowler hat, browsing through the “Court Page” of “The Times” as he gently sips his hot brew of “Earl Grey Tea” ordered from “Jackson’s of Piccadilly” or “Fortnum and Mason.” Savouring the last delicate crumbs of the jam-laden scones sent from Harrods by dear Lady Rumpers, he turns methodically to the sports page to read the cricket scores but finds only an article on Princess Anne’s prowess at the Badminton Horse Trials.

Or, perhaps you envisage a sixteen-year-old pimply punk rocker, bedecked with safety pins, razor blades, and graffiti-spattered leather jacket toasting his dead hero, Johnny Rotten, with his seventh pint of warm flat beer in a smoky local pub in Clapham, vibrating with the deafening music of “The Clash.”

I will not deny that before I came to Davidson I too had preconceived ideas about American people and have found out since then how wrong I was. Sitting uneasily in the aeroplane from Gatwick to Atlanta last summer, I wondered whether all Americans would be like those one encounters while doing the tour of the Louvre or passes on a hot, sunny street in Mykonos. He, flushed red in garish plaid shirt dripping with impressive Japanese cameras, can be heard with ease from a great distance as he puffs on a fat cigar and wipes the condensation from his dark glasses which relieve the bloodshot eyes, a result of trying out one too many local “concoctions” the previous evening. She, with handsome purple rinse protected by beaded hairnet and voluminous “Kiss me Quick” T-shirt, is comforted by a Coke and donut in the museum cafeteria, her feet throbbing mercilessly in her sensible diamante-studded high-heeled stiletto shoes. She wonders if Sally remembered to take little “Jimbo” to the poodle parlour. Little Billy yearns for a jumbo-sized hamburger smeared with “catsup” and a piece of Mama’s cheesecake. Bored by the Mona Lisa, he wishes he were playing baseball. Dragged along behind his father, he grizzles unceasingly while blowing balloons with his bubble gum.

How exaggerated you must think these notions are, and yet some notions about English people are equally ridiculous though they bear some element of truth. One of the greatest pleasures in life is observing other people. While you are laughing at their foibles, remember that they find yours equally amusing.

Lulu Kempster is an exchange student from the U.K.

January 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

(Vonnie Hendrickson)

Sennett Don't Have To Be Expensive
Rick Johnston

In the last several years, more expensive improvements have been realized at Davidson: namely the construction of the E.H. Little Library, and the renovation of the Martin Science Building. Some expensive improvements (such as the Commons) have been approved for the future, while other expensive improvements (new professorships, a new gym) are under consideration. Have we been ignoring less expensive improvements? Is it possible to make improvements that don’t cost millions of dollars? Below I offer some suggestions that put no constraints on our already tight budget.

The period in which students are permitted to drop a course without penalty should be lengthened. It might only take a week to determine if you like a professor, but it might take longer to determine if a professor likes you. Many courses begin their first few weeks by covering rather simple concepts. It may be two or three weeks before you realize that the material is over your head. Some universities permit a student to drop a course until exam week. In addition, we need to establish a considerable period of time where a student is permitted to go from pass/fail status to regular grading status in a course.

Night exams have been discussed in the past, but the idea deserves more serious consideration. Many students work better at night, and it is unfair to penalize them under our existing morning/afternoon exam schedule. We need to give night exams a trial run by scheduling an exam period between 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. on the first day of exams. The SGA could then poll the students to find out if they were successful.

I cannot understand why there is any opposition to having students on the Board of Trustees. Students not only have more of...a stake in Davidson College than the Trustees, they are probably better informed about most issues concerning this institution. I would like to see four students on the Board of Trustees—elected in their junior year by the student body to serve a two-year term. Two students would be elected each year and would have to be approved by the administration before assuming their position.

More business-oriented courses should be added to the curriculum. As shown in last Sunday’s Charlotte Observer, students across the country demonstrate an increasing desire to study the business world. At Davidson, professors must continually exclude interested students from practical business courses such as accounting, statistics, and public finance. Since the economics department is currently looking for a replacement for Dr. Avinger, perhaps they should seek out a person specializing in business-related fields.

Discussion groups are needed to supplement many of the courses in our curriculum. One Ivy League university bases its entire course structure upon this concept. The Humanities Program has done a commendable job in this area, centered upon lecture, followed up by group discussion (though I think the groups are too large). These discussion groups could be led by a professor or a student with experience in the field.

If there are extra seats available for a course, we should encourage qualified members of the community, especially senior citizens, to participate with students in attending classes. People outside the student community can add a great deal of insight to our learning experience. Their experiences in life and diverse points of view may prove to be invaluable to our understanding.

Finally, I would like to propose a student teaching day, held once a term, where seniors could teach lower-level courses in their major or other areas where they are qualified. Not only would this break up the monotony of the daily class schedule, but also students would appreciate the faculty more if they put themselves in their professor's place for a day. A student teaching day would enrich our learning: one of the best ways to learn something is to teach it to someone else.

Improvements which don’t cost the college any money are just as important as the multi-million dollar improvements under consideration. I hope that many of our ideas, big or small, cheap or costly, can be realized in the near future to make Davidson an even better place for all of us.

— H. Johnston is a staff columnist.

SGA Wants Opinion
Jim Haynes

For the past few years, the Davidson athletic program has been a frequent topic of discussion on the Davidson campus. Vocal faculty members and policy-making Trustees make their respective opinions very clear. Some students revealed their stance earlier this year through an active poster campaign which highlighted deficiencies in our athletic policy. Unfortunately, indignant protestations by concerned faculty and individual students against unyielding (in this case) Trustees have not facilitated a constructive exchange of ideas. Rather, these actions have resulted in heightened tension on campus and have created a tendency among competing factions to fortify their positions while disregarding other points of view. Some faculty members think they are being ignored; many in the athletic department feel as if they are in a state of siege. Pressure is coming from all sides: the Trustees want winning teams, the faculty wants an academic atmosphere and higher pay (at the expense of athletics if need be), and the students want... WHAT?

No one really knows what the students as a whole want. This lack is what prompted the SGA Senate to conduct a student opinion poll. The Senate is concerned about the absence of productive communication on the Davidson Athletics issue and hopes to promote a better atmosphere for debate. The Senate feels that an accurate assessment of student opinion is crucial for that debate. Through the recent questionnaire, the Senate hopes to gauge student opinion in five areas potentially affected by athletic policy: athletic budget priorities, social life, academic standards (including Honor Code), school image, and alumni support. The Athletic committee sought to create an objective questionnaire, but the fact that a questionnaire was created at all reveals a bias toward possible change. The questions reflected major topics of discussion among students.

The Senate hopes that this questionnaire will be helpful in future consideration of athletics at Davidson.

— Senior Jim Haynes is SGA Athletic Committee Chairman.