\ painting by Herb Jackson,

(Trey Thies)

Glenn Kellum
is a great guy!

We really like Glenn here at the

Davidsonian. He’s an intelligent,

reasonable, and hard-working guy who likes
to wear shirts. He’s also our assistant

news editor.

But people like Glenn can’t do it alone.

We need more people like him on the

Davidsonian staff.

Slide show in Morrison Room

March 21, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Cypriot freshman speaks on crisis

By TOM ROTH
Staff Writer
Fresh from Limassol, Cyprus, and a two-year stint in the Greek Cypriot Army, Melis Nicolaides entered Davidson this fall as a freshman. He had been accepted for the academic year '77-’78, but was drafted three months before he was to enter Davidson. This coming Monday, March 24, he will give a talk and slide show on Cyprus and the Turkish invasion in the Morrison Room at 7:00 p.m.

As a prelude to his talk, Nicolaides gave his views on a number of questions of special concern to Americans: the draft, both in Cyprus and here; American foreign policy; and Davidson College.

Concerning the draft: “I would expect the youth here to attempt to influence foreign policy. The U.S. must stop supporting regimes which oppress their people and those that use American weapons in wars of aggression. In Cyprus, the Turks used U.S. weapons in such a war and the U.S. did little lasting punishment to Turkey.”

In actuality, the U.S. did embargo arms shipments to the Turks after their invasion of Cyprus. In retaliation, according to Nicolaides, the Turks “blackmailed” the U.S. by closing airbases used to watch the Russians.

“The majority of the Greek Cypriots believe that the only country that can give a solution to the Cyprus problem is the U.S. But since 1974 when the Turkish invasion took place, the Americans have not done anything. When I asked him (Hodding Carter) several questions, he agreed that the Greek-Cypriots are right but a solution is not so easy because of the complexity of the problem.”

“As the Americans reacted to the Soviet invasion in Afghanistan, so they should have reacted to the Turkish invasion in Cyprus where the Turks used American weapons.

Nicolaides is a Greek-Cypriot, a member of the 80 percent majority of Greeks there. From age nine he attended the prestigious Athens College, in Athens, Greece. He decided to attend college in the U.S. ‘because of the advantages of the American educational system.” He chose Davidson because as a senior his counselor was a North Carolinian. He was accepted here two years ago but was forced to delay entry due to his twenty-six month military service. During this period he kept in touch with Davidson through correspondence with Assistant Admissions Director, Tony Boon.

He has been impressed by Davidson, especially by the people and the Honor System. “The people here are so friendly that I feel as if I am at home. If I talk a lot about Cyprus it is not because I am propagandizing; it is because I wish to let people know and understand what is happening there. The Americans must make themselves more aware of what is happening in the world.”

Nicolaides was critical of our support of the Shah’s regime in Iran. “There are better ways to fight Communism than to support unpopular and aggressive governments when such oppressive ones fall.” Concerning Russian-American relations: “The U.S. and Russia must settle their differences by peaceful means. There are so many problems in this world that only these two can solve. War is profitable only to the military industries if at all.”

With current exhibit

Jackson wants the Gallery to be a “meditational environment”

By ELIZABETH WILSON
Staff Writer

For those who demand absolute clarity of expression in their art, Herb Jackson’s current exhibit in the Gallery will constitute a formidable challenge. Many observers have found the abstract, megalithic quality of the works enigmatic; a number have invoked psychoanalysis; and occasionally someone bemoans the absence of “those pretty clouds.”

Jackson sees the exhibit as an attempt to create a “meditational environment,”—one which will evoke a “spiritual response.” He would admonish those for whom abstract art is “a puzzle where you go searching for various items,” using the “Veronica’s Veil” series as an example.

“Veronica was a saint whose veil supposedly preserved the image of Christ’s face,” explained Jackson. “But if you were to go looking for Christ’s face in the paintings, you would be accepting a very simplistic way of viewing the series.”

For Jackson, the subject of a work is “only the beginning. The complexity of an artist’s work grows out of years and years of experience—part of which is just being alive... My art is related to everything that I am.”

Jackson’s work has been featured in exhibits across the U.S. and also in a number of international shows, such as the XV International Sao Paulo Bienal in which he was one of only five Americans chosen to represent the U.S. Upcoming exhibits include two in North Carolina, one in Boston, and possibilities in Atlanta and Chicago.

If you're interested in working with Glenn—especially in the areas of features, opinions, or production—join the Davidsonian staff.

Contact Mark Barrett at the Davidsonian Office, Third Floor Union, Mondays and Tuesdays 4:00-5:00 pm, phone 892-2000 ext. 148. Or call Mark at mealtimes at ATO, phone 892-4252. Or talk to Glenn.

Glenn Kellum:
Working for you and
The Davidsonian

Melis Nicolaides seems strangely pleased to bury himself in the library. (Bill Giduz)