“C’mon sun! I have an eight o'clock class!” The sun didn’t answer. It was Monday, 7:20 a.m., and nothing was happening. Even though the sky was brightening with the new morning, clouds from a retreating rainstorm sat stubbornly on the eastern horizon, threatening to postpone the sunrise that we had taken special pains to see. We were sitting atop a water tower, on a prematurely cold autumn morning, waiting for the magic moment to occur. 

Water tower climbing is something of an underground tradition at Davidson, not always convenient and certainly not sanctioned by the College or the community. Thus, it wasn’t easy convincing veteran climber Laura (all names have been changed—the rest is factual) to take my friend Dave and me up the tower that morning. My efforts to accomplish this and to understand the reasons why others do it had begun about a week before. I had managed to secure an exclusive interview with Bill, another veteran climber.

Bill has always been an avid climber of just about anything. In his hometown of Butner, N.C., he told me, “There are seven state and federal institutions for the socially unfit,” including a maximum security prison and a mental institution. Although he wouldn’t say this had anything to do with his early affinity for heights, he admitted, “I’ve always had a fear of low places.”

Bill’s climbing career began on the 76-foot chimney that rises near his house. He continued to climb at Davidson. Once, he recalls, he appeared in the 3rd-floor room of a perfect stranger in Richardson dorm by lowering himself from the fourth floor into the window. “He thought I was drunk!” he laughed. A genius with locked doors, Bill became a master of campus rooftops. He recalled with wry smiles the various exploits in which he has taken part over the years: the time the SAE lion “changed color” and appeared beside the Chamber maids; hanging an effigy of the Ayatollah from the Little Library roof; watching the sunrise from the roof of Johnston Gym to commemorate the first day of spring term; “campaigning” for 1980 SGA candidate Paul Q. Lazzaro (i.e., did you see the sign between the Union and Chambers?).

I asked about water towers. “We used to go up for sunsets,” he recalled, adding that he had never had an interest in graffiti. But one day the police were waiting for him and his cohorts at the bottom of the tower. Bill decided not to finish that story.

There is a town ordinance against climbing towers. Police apprehension is not the only risk involved. Some towers, he told me, are protected by barbed wire fences, and it’s always easy to be seen and reported if one’s timing is off. Bill ascended one tower which rose directly above a police station. At another, the ladder was too high to be reached without a rope. Then there is the sheer height itself, and the ever-present danger of falling.

Why does he climb at all? “Because it’s there!” he answered with a sly chuckle. Clichés aside, he says that there’s something very satisfying about escaping from the frustrations of the college campus for a while. “If you ever get p.o.'d about something, just go up there,” he said. “It takes care of it.” He would have taken me on an expedition, but something came up and students seek peace and dramatic sunrises on local...watertowers (David McCurry) he had to leave town (probably missed his chimney). Still searching for a "Sherpa," I was referred to Laura. Not only did she agree to an interview, but, through persistent coercion, agreed to lead Dave and me up the graveyard water tower. Laura’s experience is not as vast as Bill’s, but she knows the art well. "I like high places," she began, describing how she enjoyed finding pigeons on one tower; or watching trains go by underneath, making the tower tremble; or staying late to watch the lights in Charlotte go out. She enjoys the fun, even the danger, involved. "It gives you something to talk about," she said, but warned against making a habit of climbing, saying, "It can get old."

For Laura, there’s one other reason for climbing water towers. "When I go up there," she explained, "I want to have a reasonably good time..." Laura is probably the only Davidson student ever to take a date to the top of a water tower. "It’s sort of like a Davidson Lover’s Leap..." she mused with a smile; then laughing: "If you don’t like your lover you can just throw him off!"

Despite her misgivings, she was ready with her blanket at 6:45 a.m. last Monday morning when Dave and I came to get her. She led us to the graveyard where we walked stealthily through the tombstones to the fence surrounding the tower, careful not to attract attention. A rooster crowed, piercing the cold, early morning darkness like the alarm clock had done an hour before. Laura mounted the fence and approached the ladder. Dave and I followed. The rungs were ice cold. It was getting lighter. The tower hadn’t looked too formidable from a distance, but once we were on it, it seemed unacceptably tall. Each rung took us higher above Davidson, until all we could see protruding above the trees was part of Belk, the DCPC steeple, and the dimly lit, brooding dome of Chambers.

We reached the railed walkway that circled the tank, took a breath, and looked out. A jogger passed by below on Main Street. There was Lake Norman. There was Charlotte twinkling on the southern horizon. And there was the ground—way, way down there.

"What star is that?" asked Dave.
"That’s Venus," Laura answered.

We looked down at the tombstones. Laura grinned: "That’s the best part. If you fall off you already have a plot!" What nimble wit. And there we were, waiting for the sun to emerge from those stubborn clouds, hoping it would before we had to leave for class.

"What's really neat," added Laura, "is once you're up here you realize you're even higher than the birds fly." But she was getting impatient about the sun. At last it happened: a sliver of bloody orange sun peeked out between two strata of clouds. Every tree top was tinged with orange as far as the eye could see. It felt a little warmer. The jogger passed below again, in the opposite direction. The rooster was joined in song by a few birds. Time to get to class. We watched the sun fully emerge, then made the perilous descent.

Water towers. Now I know why people climb them. What a way to begin the week. The people and events in this story are true. The names have been changed to protect the guilty.