2—The sage ela 11, 1980 wane BALE ' Staff Writer

Connell om Campos and Religious Life (CCRL) has not yet tabulated the results of last week’s student poll about the
Houses. The CCRL has already decided that one of them will be a coed eating house beginning in fall 1981,
the proposed completion date for the Commons.

CCRL Chairman Jim Robertson said the CCRL has no reason to count ballots early since the results will not be
released until the Council discusses the poll in its meeting Monday. “We don’t want the students to feel like the
Council is bound to the results of the straw vote. It is not a referendum,” he said. However, Robertson said
the overwhelming support for a coed house in the previous poll had considerable influence on the CCRL’s decision.

Robertson said the CCRL will probably decide on the social arrangement for the second eating house during their Monday meeting.
However, since the earliest the new houses will open is fall 1981, Robertson feels the CCRL decision is not of
pressing interest. Robertson said the poll was conducted this early to guarantee that any opponents to the CCRL decision would
have time to voice their concerns.

Ballots for the straw vote ran out before the polling ended last Wednesday. However, Robertson feels that since the CCRL
printed 1000 ballots, they got an adequate sampling of student opinion. He added that anyone who did not get a
chance to vote could be heard by the CCRL. Robertson declined to say how the CCRL might actually accommodate such
students.

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Young Democrats President Ed Lindsey said Anderson’s honest manner is appealing to students. Another reason for his popularity is
the general feeling of dissatisfaction among voters for both parties’ frontrunning candidates, Lindsey said. Lindsey said the Young Democrats have
been active distributing absentee ballots to North Carolina residents. Lindsey added that most of the group’s efforts to date have
been in state elections recently needed little outside.

Young Republicans President Will Dunbar said he was surprised by the amount of support for Anderson. He said that Anderson
is not as liberal as the traditionally popular candidates on college campuses, such as Kennedy. Dunbar feels that Anderson should
not run as an independent since his split the Republican party. The Young Republicans have been working locally for the
Jim Martin reelection campaign.

Of the 1000 ballots printed, the CCRL distributed 400 to freshmen through their fresh- ballots were used during the futures
of Richards and Bailey: A bulldozer finishes work on Patterson Court.

(Continued from page 1)

Last week, Doss slipped in water in Carnegie’s hall and tore her knee cartilage. The hall had been flooded by
a stopped-up shower drain. Since the residents had repeatedly complained about the flooding and the College took no action, Doss
said she will sue if the College does not cover the costs she incurred from her knee injury. Bolding said
he had heard only one complaint about flooding, which he did not think was out of the ordinary.

The residents’ complaints also include poor ventilation in the kitchen, no ventilation in the bathroom, abuses of the kitchen by
non-residents, and the noise made at late hours by some of the guests upstairs. According to Bolding, a work request
had been entered with the Physical Plant to install a

Economics Professor Randy Kincaid is running for Martin’s Congressional seat. Dunbar said that aside fromHere is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

the Club’s backing George Bush, they have not been involved in this year’s Presidential race. He expects the Young Republicans
to become active next fall when the race is more clearly defined. Eric Christensen of the Young Libertarians said the
poll points up the “Anderson chic” pervading college campuses. He also said that the third party talk generated by Anderson
has aided the Libertarian party by drawing attention to the third party concept. The Young Libertarians have been campaigning for
candidates’ positions.

Carnegie second house still up in the air SGA election Wednesday. Robertson doubted that some freshmen accidentally voted twice. A
Davidsonian sampling of a few freshmen seemed to confirm Robertson’s opinion. (Stephen Enniss)

Bolding dismissed the residents’ complaints about noise, maintaining that as is the usual case in student housing, those who complain
about neighbors disturbing them probably disturb their neighbors just as much. Doss said she hopes her threat of a lawsuit
will spur the Housing Office to give the problems in Basement Carnegie more serious consideration.

ECONOMICS DEPARTMENT

Real North Carolina barbeque, beer & all the fixin’s. Welcome: all active and prospective majors. Y'ALL COME

Wednesday, April 16, 5 till dusk, Hobart’s Park. $2.50 per person. Deadline for ticket purchase: noon Monday. For tickets: Greg
Smart, Will Dunber, Karen Wei, David Wals, David Thodes, Kevin Wheelock, Margaret Holt, Jonathan Keith, Peter Hairston, Mike Busch, Patrick
Pope, Elliot Stotler, Stewart Dorset, Dr. Ratiff & Union Ticket Desk.

News At A Glance

Writing Awards

Winners of the Vereen Bell Creative Writing Contest were Jim Robertson, first prize; Sue Dehoney, second prize; Jeff Morrow and
Minor Sinclair, third prize; and Cathie Chester and Consik McLean, honorable mention. This year’s contest was judged by Maxine Kumin,
1973 Pulitzer prizewinner for poetry. The Windley Hall freshman creative writing contest winners were Knox Proctor, first prize and Elizabeth
Wilson and Elizabeth Kiss, second prize. Entries were judged by members of the English department.

Cheerleaders

Barbara Biedenbach has announced the cheerleaders for the upcoming academic year. They are: Carolyn Barnett, Patty Bates, Lisa Hasty, Renee
Hedgepeth, Patti Long, Lisa Olson (Head Cheerleader), Susan Minorities Committee

College President Samuel Spencer has appointed an 11-member Committee on Minorities to monitor Davidson’s progress in increasing the number of
blacks and other minority members on campus, and to recommend necessary changes. Spencer told committee members that the record in
recruiting black faculty and staff members has been “unimpressive” and that, despite determined efforts by the admissions office and athletic
recruiters, 15 years after the college opened its doors to minority students the percentage of black students is still low.
“We cannot be satisfied with this showing,” Spencer said. “We cannot be satisfied with anything less than a representative group
of black students, faculty and staff. The life of our campus must reflect our commitment to the principle of equal
rights and equal treatment for all persons.”

Chairman of the new committee is Psychology Professor John Kelton. Other members include Admissions Director John Griffith, Head Football Coach
Ed Farrell, Personnel Director Robert J. Stephenson, Dean of Students Will Terry, French Professor Charles Dockery, and Biology Professor Cindy
Grant. Student members are Alvin Atkinson, Ann Parker, Anita Hutchings, and John Eley.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
