And there are bad sides.

(Trey Thies)

Shopping center corrupts Davidson life

By MARK DUCKETT
Staff Correspondent

Soon our peaceful existence will be changed. The moral foundations of our characters will be undermined. The fine fabric of
our lives will be rent asunder. A new shopping center is opening in Davidson.

What may appear to some to be the best thing in Davidson since the new head shop is in reality
a treacherous force which will rob us of our innocence and dignity. We have courted a demon, a viper, to
come into our midst. She will subtly seduce us further and further down the winding path to our destruction until
we reach the point of no return.

Then we will no longer be able to return to the lives we once led. We will have been corrupted
by a two-bit streetwalker.

Garish neon lights screaming DISCOUNT will catch our eye—then our bodies will follow. Into the pit we'll go by droves
like lemmings into the sea. Soon we will have forsaken all the ideals of small-town life to worship at the
altar of capitalism.

Our once peaceful routine will be transformed into an endless series of outings to the K-Mart, Burger-Doodle, and Jeans store.
Our children will drop out of school to loiter aimlessly on the sidewalks of our new mistress begging for quarters
to feed the gluttonous pinball machines. We’ll waste gallons upon gallons of gas burning up the highways in our futile
attempts to buy a bargain at the new discount store. Yes, Davidson has fallen prey to modern-day commercialism. First a
small shopping center, then a motel, bowling alley, laundromat, cinema, roller rink... the list is endless. Davidson, once the bastion
of an almost forgotten way of life, is on its way to becoming just like every other town in America.
What will happen to the downtown area? Will it become just another inner-city slum as people gravitate to the suburbs?
Will the crime rate soar? Will women and children be crushed by reckless drivers trying to get to the stores
before they close?

How can we sit idly by and watch the Davidson-Cornelius metroplex area become just another Mooresville? It is indeed a
grave tragedy that in the name of progress we willingly sacrifice our individuality.

The Virtual Image

Look at the people

By A. T. MELLER
Staff Writer

Over Christmas break I took the train several times to nearby Chicago. In the South, most people are used to
cities that are growing. Chicago is a city that has grown.

I'd made the trip so many times before. I'd sat and stared like all the others, mute and blind. It
was a special blindness, not human or physical, an upper-middle-class suburban sightlessness that could have seen, but would rather not
right now, thank you. Perhaps I had grown immune from overexposure? No. I never really cared in the first place.

Ghettos, garbage, the urban ugliness all totaled into one giant nothing. It didn’t exist. Reflections in the window successfully obscured
the outer reality, recreating in light the impenetrable mental wall. Throughout the incessant train-clack stop-and-go, my eyes remained vacant like
the lots which called to deaf ears as I passed above it all.

The commuter train is really quite a clever arrangement. When you're three stories up, everything is removed and unreal. The
scenery passes like the image on a forgotten screen, the TV left on during dinner. I’d taken the train many
times, and it had rarely failed to bore me. Then, after all those hundred dry runs, I took my first
trip.

I slid my two-dimes-and-a-quarter under the grate to the radio-blared cashier, who pushed the appropriate button. After passing through the
uninterested turnstile, I bounded up the stairs to the platform to wait. The train pulled itself in. I got on.
I sought anonymity in the usual place, the window, as I always did, as everyone always did, but instead of
looking, I saw.

The empty dooryards, tin-filled and glass-strewn, opened up to me and the broken bottles were cutting my bare feet. The
burned-out hulks stood like forgotten question marks, punctuating no question in particular, merely asking. The sunlight shone as it had
to, and reflected off the roofs and splintered windshields of the junkyard cars and the rows and rows of shiny
bumpers.

Blank windows, hollow eyes with their crooked yellowed shades parenthesized by tattered cloth, peered back at me, dried and tearless.
And other windows, windows broken like the hearts that are stomped to death or left to rot on the cracked
and treeless pavement, stared silent and accusing.

The forgotten main streets of faded neon and tattered second-hand-coat-suffering, laid out in precise and ironic squares, led nowhere. Distance
and speed tried to obscure the reality. I felt drawn out, compelled to examine and see, but out there I
could only be the ugly tourist with fifty cents for a picture of the friendly natives.

The towering brick monuments marched by, the urban renewal zoos with barred balconies so that the animals wouldn’t escape. They
couldn’t fall, or jump. People live there. The people who silently got on or off at every stop along the
way live somewhere out there. The cracked and shadeless lamps or dying plants perched in the listless windows are owned
by friends and fathers and families.

I don’t plan to ride the train much anymore. It’s too depressing. People live there.

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY

384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30

MOORESVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA 28115

“Good Builders Since 1922”

M.A. Wicker
President & Treasurer

Ben L. Millsaps
Exec. Vice President & Secretary

SAVE
1/4 to 1/2

Winter Apparel
for Guys and Gals
