Caffeine: Davidson’s foremost social drug and all-nighter upper
By JEFF BERRIN | Features Editor

Freshmen do it a lot. Professors do it even more. Coeds do it, seniors do it, even editors do it.
It is done at all hours—morning, noon, and night—and in all places. What is it everyone is doing? They’re doing
caffeine, in all imaginable forms. Face it—caffeine has become the most universally used drug on campus.

Take, for example, Whit Wampler, a typical student in all respects. She told me today of her need to stay
up all night just to finish an assignment for tomorrow. “I started early this morning,” she said, “with a cup
of coffee at breakfast. Then about four (this afternoon) I really started filling up, getting ready for tonight. It should
keep me going for a while.”

Few people at Davidson get by without at least some occasional intakes of caffeine, and most who use it know
very little about the effects it can have. Dr. Williams of the Davidson infirmary explained that caffeine inhibits the breakdown
of adrenalin, so that it (the adrenalin) stays in your system much longer. This rather simple process is what keeps
you jumping at three and four in the morning.

Williams said a number of the patients he sees, especially during exams, are suffering from caffeine abuse. A sure sign
of such a case is shaking and rapid metabolism. Dr. Williams also said that a surprisingly large number of people
who see psychiatrists are “cured” after being told to get off of coffee. In his words, excessive use of caffeine
can “lead to subtle expressions of tension, notably depression and anxiety.”

And just how much caffeine is too much? A cup of coffee has about 150mg of caffeine, a No-Doz tablet,
100mg. Dr. Williams stated that, although it varies much between individuals, “above 500mg a day” will lead to adverse effects.
That is about three cups of coffee (one cup of espresso).

‘Best foreign film’ at Visulite, Cuckoo’s Nest in Love
By NICK GRAHAM | Staff Writer

In 1959 a hitherto unknown German writer published his first novel, The Tin Drum, promptly attracting literary prizes (while one
of the books was only a half-finished manuscript) and legal actions (40—all of which failed); while selling copies by the
million. Although Gunter Grass’ epic of Oskar the percussive midget has waited twenty years to be translated to the wide
screen, Volker Schlondorff's film of The Tin Drum, which begins a two-week run at the Visulite Cinema in Charlotte on
Friday, is mercifully free of the usual gamut of inaccuracy, simplification of character, and rearrangement of plot which frequently mars
the cinematic treatment of literary masterpieces. So free, indeed, that this film thoroughly deserved the award of both the 1979
Grand Prix at Cannes and the 1980 Academy Award for Best Foreign Film.

Set in Germany from the 1920s till 1945, the film views the rise of Nazism and the Second World War
through the eyes of Oskar Matzerath, son of a Danzig grocer, fish-cook, and half-hearted Nazi. On his third birthday, our
hero is presented with a tin drum and resolves to promptly stop growing, remaining perpetually three feet tall and three
years old. After Oskar carefully fakes an accident to account for this pediatric eccentricity, the drum becomes his means of
communication as he records in his acutely perceptive mind the hypocrisy and corruption of the adult world.

His mother’s adulterous relationship with her Polish cousin (a candidate for Oskar’s paternity), the growing influence of the Nazis, and
the persecution of the Jews are all drummed out by Oskar as his high-pitched voice mercilessly exposes the frailty and
stupidity of his adult compatriots: “There once was a gullible people who believed in Santa Claus; But in reality, Santa
Claus turned out to be the Gas-Man,” he intones as Hitler visits the good people of Danzig.Oskar’s voice can smash
glass. Oskar’s isolation from society takes on a more destructive, and ultimately a more sinister aspect—at first Nazi rallies are
disrupted by the diminutive tympanist, but then he is caught up in the invasion of Poland. He gets with child
his father’s second wife; joining with a troupe of circus dwarves, he dons a Nazi uniform and entertains the soldiers
of the Reich. Finally, during the liberation of Danzig, he betrays Matzerath, his presumed father, to the Russians. Much of
the credit for the successful transposition of an enormous, sprawling novel into two hours of effective, hard-hitting cinema must go
to Schlondorff’s screenplay. Yet the film itself ends in the confusion of almost one-third of its run. In positing the
history of Oskar in the post-war German economic miracle, Schlondorff ably eases, yet avoids many of the issues and themes
which give Grass’ novel its unique emotional appeal and moral fascination. The contemporary growing inability to reconcile his sense of
guilt with his opulence and fame as a highly-paid theatrical artiste—that is, those aspects of the book which touched such
a deeply painful nerve in the German mind in 1959—are excised, and the film ends as Oskar, departing for the
dubious liberty of Western Europe, at last begins to grow up. What we are left with is a powerful film,
which, while it falls short of the complexity and epic sweep of the novel, should not be missed by anyone
who professes an interest in either modern cinema or modern literature. The Tin Drum deserves the awards it received.

On Friday, the Love the Pop Films Committee are showing another film, also adapted from a novel, which thoroughly deserved
the five Oscars it won in 1976 and quite possibly a few that it failed to collect too. One Flew
Over the Cuckoo’s Nest, from Ken Kesey’s novel of the same name, by now needs little recommendation from any reviewer.
Set in the claustrophobic, surgical atmosphere of a mental hospital, this is a parabolic tale of the fate non-conformists are
likely to suffer at the hands of any society, be it never so benevolent. Jack Nicholson is featured at his
very (See Cuckoo, page 7).

How much caffeine does Davidson consume? At the ominous “Coffee and Cokes” every week, 5 cases (80 liters) of Coke,
Sprite, and Tab are consumed, along with over half a case of coffee. The snack bar serves up half a
case of coffee each week, while Richards and Bailey use about a case between them. And this varies between eating
houses: ATO uses a little over a jar a week, while PAX is going on about two cases a term.
Said Lee McCormick, Board Manager at PAX, “And now that it is cold (outside), they’re standing in line to get
the stuff.”

Professors use it as well. English Professor Ann McMillan admitted right off that she was “a caffeine addict.” She elaborated:
“I learned to drink coffee in college. It was just sort of the thing, even though it tastes like God-knows...
a petroleum byproduct.” She likes good coffee, but will drink any kind, “because of the effect; because I’m an addict.”
Gill Holland, English professor, isn’t worried. Said he: “I wish that there would be a greater injection in my eight
o’clock class.” When it was suggested to him that the school promoted caffeine use through the weekly Coffee and Cokes,
he said, “They’re not promoting it! What do you want them to serve? Hot Chocolate and cokes?”

But coffee and coke are not the only sources of caffeine: students use Wakos, No-Doz, Vivarin (sold in the student
store), Caffedrine, and other pills in large quantities to pull all-nighters. So next time you start filling up—be it with
coffee, coke, or caffeine tablets—remember that there is a limit. If you don’t want to end up depressed, anxious, nervous,
ill, or just plain drugged out—do less caffeine.

You can help acquire the money for this man to hire quality teachers or you can turn the page.

SGA Phone-a-thon
The first two weeks of Winter Term
Dec 2-4, 7-11, from 6 pm-9:30 pm
Volunteers contact your SGA Senator
