Rusk Scholars like friendliness, criticize conformity in Davidson

By AIDA DOSS
Features Editor

Culture shock. That’s what you’d expect the Rusk Scholars to say they experienced upon coming to Davidson from London, England. But as Chris Darvill, one of this year's “Ruskies,” remarked, “The culture shock was that there wasn’t a culture.”

Darvill elaborated by saying that there was not a graspable sense of history here, as compared to that in England. There, he said, “you have St. Paul’s, Westminster, all around you—it’s unavoidable. In New York all we saw were skyscrapers.”

The Rusk Scholars program, named after Dean Rusk, brings six students from the St. Paul’s School in London to Davidson each spring term. While here, they take one course and audit one, thus giving them time to get to know the country and the people.

All seven of the Ruskies agreed that the people, particularly in the South and here at Davidson, were a pleasant surprise. Jackie Davis was amazed at the “openness when you meet people here. I can meet someone, sit down, have a drink, and in ten minutes be talking about things it would take English people ten years to get around to.”

And both Darvill and Charles Mathias were surprised by the approachability of the professors; in England, apparently, there is more of a “god-to-worm” feeling in the classroom rather than the relative equality we enjoy in relationships with professors. “Teachers are much kinder here,” Darvill said.

The biggest difference the English students noticed between the American and British cultures was the educational system—both the way it works and the students’ attitudes towards it. The British system is most demanding between the ages of fifteen and eighteen, when the students choose three subjects in which to do concentrated study. Mathias said that during this time there is “a great deal of pressure.” Then, when it is time to go to college and specialize in just one subject, it is almost possible to “sit down and go to sleep for a year.”

Exams are administered only about once every two years, and students are allowed much more freedom to do independent work in their area of specialty. The disadvantage of this system, according to the students, is that they are forced to specialize early in their education, and thus changing a major, though not impossible, is fairly difficult.

The other major difference the students noted was the attitude expressed toward learning—on both the professors’ part and the students’. Jo Stutter was surprised that in courses here, there are frequently only one or two textbooks assigned. In the English system, there would be more eclecticism, with the students using different books in the library to look up the material themselves, rather than passively receiving the information from one source.

And the students here, Teresa Clay noted, “have not much intellectual curiosity.” Stutter added that there was “no sense of an intellectual elite,” and Catherine Allen laughed that “there aren't even any intellectual ‘pseuds!’” Darvill noted that we are “taught to learn, rather than find out,” that we “learn facts, rather than the reasons behind the facts.”

The Rusk scholars pointed out a few other minor differences. Stutter found it “incredible that juniors and seniors are in the same classes with freshmen and sophomores,” and Mathias was surprised at the early eight o'clock class hour. “We're very civilized in England,” he said. “We start at nine.”

Davis was surprised at how many students here went on to graduate school. In England, only about 1 percent of all college students go on to postgraduate study. “None of us could understand,” she said. “Most people here won’t finish their education till age 26. That's pushing it.”

As to life in Davidson outside the classroom, the Ruskies were mixed in their reactions. It's easy to get to know people, they say, but difficult to find things to do with them. As Davis said, “When you've done the 900 Room and done the Peregrine House, you've done Davidson.”

But Mathias disagreed, saying there is “always something to do”—and he has indeed been very busy playing soccer and traveling to away games to places such as UNC-G and Belmont Abbey. However, the students said they did feel a general sense of isolation here, and the lack of transportation made it difficult to get around as much as they would have liked.

They were also distressed by the homogeneity and conformity they found at Davidson. For example, Clay said that several times people had said to her, “Oh, you must be one of the English students. You dress so differently.” Stutter added that many of the students seemed to take a great deal of time with their appearance and yet came out looking very similar.

And finally, the Rusk scholars said they sensed a certain lack of spontaneity in the students here. Our relaxation periods seem too carefully planned out, and, Darvill noted, we are “reserved about saying ‘to hell with it.’” They all said that they’ve thoroughly enjoyed their ten weeks here but they’d “go mad if we had to spend four years here.”