By AIDA DOSS
April 4, 1960—The Davidsonian—7

I have put aside with the foundry for Pulitzer prize winner Maxine Kumin to judge Vereen Bell awards.

Features Editor

For five days next week, April 7-11, Davidson College is in for a rare treat. Maxine Kumin, poet, novelist, and winner of the 1973 Pulitzer Prize for poetry, will be the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Writer. (Last year’s Woodrow Wilson Fellow was Joan Manley of Time-Life books.) During her week at Davidson, Kumin will work with students' poetry and prose in informal workshops. Due to the length of her stay, it will be possible for Kumin to critique a piece of writing, see the revision, and then offer additional suggestions. Students wishing to submit their work for Kumin’s comments should see English Professor Tony Abbott to schedule an appropriate time.

While here, she will also present the Vereen Bell and R. Windley Hall awards for creative writing Monday, April 7, at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room. A student once said of Kumin’s poetry criticism: “When you bring your poem to class it’s like laying your baby on an altar for a priest’s approval. Some professors kill it—and you. But she doesn’t. No matter how bad it eventually turns out to be, she never says it’s bad. She always says things like, ‘I like that phrase in the third line,’ and ‘How well you describe the kitchen door.’ When she’s done, you get your baby back and you can take her suggestions and make it better.”

Kumin has written six books of poetry, the most recent being The Retrieval System, published in 1978. The title poem explores the strange ability some animals have of bringing back memories of “lost” people:

the weathered goat who runs free in pasture and stable
with his flecked, agate eyes and his minus-sign pupils
blats in the tiny voice of my former piano teacher.
My elderly aunts, wearing the heads of willful intelligent ponies,
stand at the fence begging apples.
The sister who died at three has my cat's faint chin,
my cat's inscrutable squint, and cried catlike in pain.

Later in the poem, she states the process clearly: “... Fact: it is people who fade, it is animals that retrieve them.” In essence, Kumin is saying that animals, because they are animals and yet come so close to being human, uniquely recall to mind the human memories we've misplaced.

In another poem, “The Knot,” Kumin muses:

Lately I am changing houses like sneakers and socks.
Time zones wrinkle off me casually.

Shi receives NEH grant to research ‘the simple life’

Monday, April 7
10:00 am Anne Sexton's poems Morrison Room
7:30 pm Reading & presentation of Vereen Bell Awards 900 Room

Tuesday, April 8
10:00 am Conversation with T.J. Reddy Morrison Room
6:00 pm Sign-up Dinner with Students Morrison Room
7:30 pm Discussion Morrison Room

Wednesday, April 9
10:00 am Children’s Literature Morrison Room
7:30 pm Reading of prose 900 Room

Thursday, April 10
10:00 am Coffee Gallery
10:30 am Discussion Morrison Room

Friday, April 11
10:00 am Discussion Conversation Pit

By MELISSA McKEITHEN
Staff Writer

History Professor David Shi has received a $2500 summer research grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Shi will be traveling to Swarthmore, Harvard, and Yale this summer in order to carry out research for a book entitled The Simple Life: Voluntary Simplicity in American Thought, to be published by the Oxford University Press in 1982. He will research manuscript collections to examine a select group of American intellectuals from colonial to present.times who have espoused a life of "voluntary simplicity." These individuals placed a high value on personal freedom and control of their own time in order to reduce the time spent in satisfying these needs. This intellectual history will be related to contemporary concerns such as the ecological and economic crises of the 1980s. Shi said he will demonstrate that "throughout history we have had spokesmen of the austere life"—including Jefferson, Thoreau, Emerson, William James, and Scott Nearing—and that their ideas may be helpful as we are forced to adopt this "austere life" in the near future.

Shi’s initial interest in this project came with the announcement of President Carter’s first energy program in 1977. He said Carter’s frequently quoted phrase "the moral equivalent of war" is actually derived from an essay by William James, a 19th-century American philosopher. Shi’s special interest in the field of history is American intellectual history, and he has written two papers on interests related to the austere life which will soon be published in the South Atlantic Quarterly and the Journal of American Culture.

The chances of Shi receiving the NEH grant were one in seven. All colleges and universities were eligible to nominate two applicants for a grant from the NEH summer stipend fund. Shi received his B.A. from Furman University and his Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. He has a book planned for publication in January 1981 by the Yale University Press entitled From Dadaist to Muckraker: Matthew Josephson and the Literary Left.

Kumin's poems draw on personal experience and visions of the natural world. In them one senses the soft, deft touch of a sensitive mind, yet it is frequently tempered by an unexpected image or phrase of realistic humor. She was once introduced as someone who "writes with a special humaneness—she latches on to ordinary things, recreates the warmth of genuine experience" (Reg Gibbons). Sometimes, one subject is treated in a variety of ways in different poems. Thus, there is the Hermit cycle ("The Hermit Wakes to Bird Sounds," "The Hermit Prays," etc.), the series of poems dealing with her horse, Amanda ("Amanda Dreams She Has Died and Gone to the Elysian Fields," "Amanda Is Shod," etc.), and the group of poems dealing with Henry, a fictitious elderly bachelor ("Hello, Hello," "The Henry Manley Blues," etc.).

Kumin attended Radcliffe, where she received her degree. In the magazine Country Journal she writes: "Every day the sap gets hauled uphill from twenty taps to metal trash barrels set in the snow at a point where the land thinks better of it and levels off for a boughten variety. Ours is even paler, purer, and has a buttery taste to it. We are full of grimy complacence. But what a lot of work! By rights maple syrup ought to cost $500 a gallon. Anything less is a swindle."

Besides poetry, Kumin has also written four novels as well as a number of children’s books. She has been a frequent visiting lecturer on English and creative writing at several colleges and has served as a staff member of the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference six times. In 1973, she received the Pulitzer Prize for her book Up Country.