Expected drop in enrollment the solution

Second of two parts

(Last week’s installment outlined problems with student housing overcrowding at several colleges.)

The reason is that “university administrators have been unwilling to create more open housing for the students, since they know
it won’t pay off in a few years,” says Dan Hellenbeck, housing director at the University of Georgia. “If they
were to construct more dorms, it would be financial suicide because the anticipated enrollment drop-off is scheduled for any year
now. Once that happens, the school may have problems filling the spaces, and thus lose money,” he explains.

“We were always bumping into each other,” recalls Steve Eckels, a sophomore at Oklahoma who lived in a double with
two other roommates last year. “It didn’t do much for my studying. I just felt that I had no privacy.”

The housing crunch has become a problem of such magnitude that studies have already been completed analyzing the effects on
students who lived in temporary units, or were crowded into small spaces. Not only have the initial findings produced evidence
of irritation and bickering, but some students have not done as well academically as they might have under more normal
circumstances.

Ed Spencer, a housing official at the University of Delaware, recently concluded an examination of students who lived in triples
or in temporary housing such as lounges or study carrels. “There seemed to be no significant difference between the grade
point averages of those in temporary units and the students in regular situations. However, the averages of the ones in
converted spaces go up by a greater percent over the years after they leave that situation, suggesting that they would
have done better if they had been in normal rooms,” Spencer says.

He adds that those living in triples or other temporary spaces wind up going home more frequently on weekends, don’t
get along with their roommates, and become very irritated with the university. According to that hypothesis, when three people are
stuffed into a crowded situation, an alliance of two roommates against the other occurs. Research suggests the phenomenon laps over
to other social settings.

Yet most housing officials (See Housing, page 11)

Fred Chappell declaims his poems in Hobart Park. (David McCurry)

Film Review

Allen's Memories another's

By ROBERT BOWIE
Staff Writer

The future of American movies lies in the past. Woody Allen’s Stardust Memories glitters on the screen in black and
white. A few short weeks ago Brian DePalma’s Dressed To Kill sparkled with allusions to Psycho. Winnie and Phil glowed
as a remake of Jules and Jim. In all three cases, I find some of America’s leading directors striving to
emulate the films of yesterday.

Stardust Memories, more so than the others, raises the question of lack of originality. Memories robs almost every scene, steals
almost every theme and counterfeits almost every technique from Fellini’s 8 1/2. This homage bordering on plagiarism particularly disturbs me
coming from Woody Allen, a director who carved out his own personal vision in Annie Hall and Manhattan. By drawing
on the experiences of his own life and dumping the worn-out parodies of his early work, Allen built up the
greatest comic talent since Groucho Marx. Annie Hall and Manhattan possessed a narrative coherence and logic not to be found
in the loosely connected sketches of Bananas and Take The Money And Run. Allen did something few American artists ever
accomplish—he matured rather than burned out.

From this point of view, Stardust Memories represents a giant step backwards. As does 8 1/2, Stardust Memories tells of
the emotional crisis of a famous film director unable to find significance in the work he does or love from
the women he chases. Like Fellini, Allen sticks in many sequences that are pure fantasy. I’m sure Allen wants to
bring the technical innovations of European cinema to the United States. Instead, he creates the sort of madcap order found
in his early films. Stardust Memories as a result does not come together as well as his two masterpieces.

All is not lost, though. Allen continues to display the greater control of photography he found inManhattan and Interiors. The
acting manages to be superb, although the absence of Diane Keaton causes the viewer to focus too much attention on
Allen himself as the only center of interest. The angry, grotesque portraits of the inhabitants of New Jersey put a
sting into the laughter that reminds us of the pessimistic view of life Allen maintains he holds. The one-liners, as
one might expect, never lose the unique Allen touch, although at times they seem contrived and not as funny as
in Annie Hall or Manhattan. All in all, I would place Stardust Memories on the same level as Interiors; both
are too derivative to win unalloyed praise and yet both contain enough skill to suggest we can expect new and
better things from Allen in the future.

N.C. poets Chappell & Sullivan set up shop in Hobart Park
By ROB CAMPANY
Staff Correspondent

Standing amid a crowd of students and faculty in Hobart Park, Fred Chappell takes another swig of beer and reads
aloud his poem, "Delayed by Mongol Forces at National Airport":

Shod hooves scrape sparks on the runway.
707s motionless as hospitals look up hungry at the sky.
The chieftain (beard and broadsword, goat leather, necklace of boar teeth) bawls drunken orders in Baggage Claim.
Troopers loll, picking filed teeth.
In the Golden Eagle lounge they grin and fight, easy with their alien money.
Blonde wigs of stewardesses dangle from lances.
©1979 Fred Chappell Awakening to Music, Briarpatch Press

The audience snickers in delight as Chappell swigs beer again and grins at a big black dog that has come
to hear the poetry. He wears black trousers, a light blue shirt rolled up at the sleeves, and a dark
blue necktie loosely tied. He smokes lots of cigarettes.

Chappell’s voice as he reads his work sounds somewhat bashful, sheepish. Not so when Chuck Sullivan, the other visiting poet,
reads his. He reads out his "Uses of Enchantment: A Note on Emancipation" aggressively, with an air of challenge.

These readings were part of a visit by two increasingly well-known North Carolina poets to Davidson on Thursday, sponsored by
the Union Poetry Committee. Chappell and Sullivan together conducted a workshop at which students and faculty read their own poems
and received helpful comments from the visitors. Then the poets walked down to Hobart Park to refresh themselves from a
keg of beer and to read aloud from their own work.

Sullivan, a graduate of Belmont Abbey, is a Catholic, and is currently poet-in-residence at Alamance Tech in Burlington. His most
recent volume of poetry, A Catechism of Hearts (Charlotte: Red Clay Books, 1980, $3.95), is described by Chappell as "the
poetry of the divided heart, forced to catechize itself by the perceived chasm between divine order and daily triviality." Many
of his poems are rather shocking, hence effective. One depicts God as a kind of cosmic pool shark. Another is
entitled "God on a Bad Day." During the workshop Sullivan said, "It’s healthy to get mad at God. He needs
it." Later he said, "Nothing is irreverent except stupidity."

Chappell has written several novels, books of short stories and of poetry, including Awakening to Music, published by Davidson’s own
Briarpatch Press (1979, $3.50). He graduated from Duke University and is now a professor of English at UNC-G. He considers
teaching his work; writing, his vocation.

Both poets of course showed a fine sense of humor during their short visit to Davidson. After the poetry reading
at Hobart Park there was a good deal of book-buying and signing by the authors. Sullivan quipped that selling his
books was what really gave him pleasure as a writer; he wished for one of those change dispensers that ice
cream truck drivers wear at the waist. When I asked Chappell to sign a copy of his poems for my
mother—intending to present her with it as a gift—he wrote: "To Linda—Rob’s mother—You failed—Fred Chappell," and had a good laugh.

Seniors interested in an MBA

Qualified seniors, in any undergraduate major, seeking leadership roles in business management, are encouraged to investigate the opportunities available to
them at Vanderbilt University. Write: Office of Admission, Room 601, Owen Graduate School of Management, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37203.
