Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

2—The Davidsonian—January 25, 1980

SGA budget report ‘shows no real conclusions’

By JOHN STIPP
Staff Correspondent

The SGA Budget Committee has released a survey comparing Davidson’s budget to the budgets of several similar colleges. According to Committee Chairman Richard Terry, “The budget survey results show no real conclusions about Davidson’s budget in comparison to the colleges surveyed.”

Terry said that Davidson “appears to be about average among the colleges surveyed in budgetary matters, particularly in faculty salaries and compensation.”

The budget committee prepared the report because Terry felt there was a need for the college community to have the means for an appraisal of Davidson’s budget. The figures were about average, Terry noted.

Whereas the average compensation at Princeton was 25% above that at Davidson in 1965, it was only 19% ahead in 1979. On the other hand, Davidson lost ground to Williams, which was 5% ahead in 1969 and 10% ahead in 1979.

The third area of study, Alumni and General Giving, puts Davidson in a lower rank compared to other schools. “Davidson ranks tenth of 15 with a per student endowment of $15,798, while Amherst reported the highest per student endowment of $49,241.”

The September 1979 edition of the American Association of University Professors bulletin was the chief source of the committee’s survey results.

Richard Terry (Mike Kehs)

By PETE JONES
Staff Writer

The proposed student carrier current radio station is scheduled to begin operation during Spring term, according to Senior Janet Coleman.

Students will be able to receive station broadcasts via any radios plugged into outlets in College dormitories. Carrier current radio is on the AM dial, and its quality is similar to that of AM broadcasts.

Coleman, who leads students organizing the new station, said Davidson needs carrier current radio because “WDAV is not a real student activity.” The carrier current station will be run entirely by students.

A programming schedule has not yet been announced. College President Spencer has approved an initial budget for the station of $6000 to cover the cost of equipment, Coleman said. All equipment necessary to begin operation has been ordered. Also, equipment from the old WDAV carrier current station will be used.

The Activities Tax Council has not yet decided how much to allocate to the new station for its annual budget, Coleman said.

An organizational meeting will be held Thursday, Jan. 24 at 7 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.

Hopefully, the survey will provoke some thought about Davidson’s priorities and policies. The report is composed of several sections. The first section addresses the lack of general information available. The survey will be available in the College Union, Chambers, and the Post Office, and, if possible, will help unify the student body at Davidson.

SGA Athletic Survey Results

Too Much | Too Little
1 2 3 4 5
1. For Intercollegiate Football, Davidson College spends:
29 36 24 6 3 2
2. For Intercollegiate Basketball, Davidson spends:
27 31 26 7 6 3
3. For other intercollegiate sports, Davidson spends:
4 21 42 8
4. For Physical Education (including intramurals), Davidson spends:
31 8 7 9
5. For Women’s sports, Davidson spends:
23 9 4

Intercollegiate athletics is a necessary positive aspect of a liberal arts college.

The current athletic program benefits students whose primary interest is not athletics.

Davidson’s intercollegiate athletics program is desirable for a well-rounded education.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.