10—The Davidsonian—October 17, 1980

Cathy Inabnet takes a shot at a Doughboy. (David McCurry)

Alta-Dena Yogurt from California
Plain, Blueberry, Lemon, Strawberry & Peach
80°
128 S. Main St
Davidson
892-7521

Bricks and Doughboys return after ‘hiatus
By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

Greetings, IMAC followers, it’s great to be back. Last week there was no IMAC column in this publication. We’re very sorry. Oh, it’s not that we didn’t write one. We did. Our editor simply refused to print it. Why? We were told it was because the article was in poor taste and did not reflect kindly upon Ronald Reagan. That's a pity. He’s such a good guy—didn’t you root for the National Guard at Kent State? We were for the Vietnam War all the way. Still think it had its redeeming features. Anyway, they didn’t print the article last week. Some of it usually is. Hell, they print a lot of the really nasty stuff, but one never really knows what they’ll edit or what they'll leave in. They're pretty consistent. Now we can see why they cut the part we wrote last year about Richie D.’s physical attributes (it had to do with pole vaulting) and this year’s analysis of the nicknames involved in the Southern Cal-South Carolina game (look up those nicknames—it’s pretty funny). That stuff was rather explicit, but if you had taken three or four sentences out of last week’s article, you could have printed it in The Christian Science Monitor.

We probably wouldn’t have taken the time to lodge our protest, but a lot of people were upset about the absence of the IMAC column last week. Some had tears in their eyes, especially Sam. He thought that article about I.M. Oblivious was hilarious. It reminded him of a college president he used to know (I think the guy was president of Williams). A lot of other people were upset, too, including Bob B., Ports, Eva S., Vince, Touchdown, X, Gay Bear, Minor, and about everybody else that we like. Joby had forgotten about it. It’s not that those people didn’t enjoy

___Forum___
(Continued from page 4)

availability. More than a dozen members of ATO talked with the Trustees after the meal on a serious level for an hour, after which they excused themselves because of other commitments. John, on the other hand, left immediately after finishing his meal without talking to the Trustees. It is unfortunate that such a trivial incident has attracted so much attention. Certainly, there are issues on this campus much more deserving of our concern. ATO would like to thank the Trustees, Dr. Ivan Hoy and Mr. and Mrs. Graeme Keith, for taking the time to discuss some of these issues with us.

John Shaw '82

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION PRESENTS
THE ENTERTAINERS
For a semi-formal dance
Homecoming Weekend
Saturday, October 18
Johnston Gym
9 pm - 1 am
Tickets $3.00 in advance at Union Ticket office
$5.00 at door
Friday is the last day before they go upthe rest of the paper; most everyone we talked to liked the Rely picture on the front page, and a couple of the Trustees who were once sort of shaky in their support of coeducation think it's just super now. The only thing that was missing besides the IMAC column was another thought-provoking picture of that new police vehicle. Maybe it’ll be back next week.

Now, we figured that some people might not care whether or not there was an IMAC article, so we had a poll taken in order to get a feel for the article’s support and importance. This poll was done by the United States Underwriters for Research Propagation (U.S.U.-R.P.) and cost us just under $2000. Here are the questions and results:

1. Which article in The Davidsonian do you read first?
   - Brick Bros. & Doughboys: 84%
   - Calendar of Events: 8%
   - Just look at the centerfold: 5%
   - Can't read: 3%

2. If there were no IMAC column, would you read The Davidsonian?
   - Yes: 54%
   - No: 81%
   - Don't read it anyway: 13%
   - Rather use it for my cat: 1%

3. What institution at Davidson has had the greatest influence on your life?
   - The IMAC column: 65%
   - Cora Nelson: 8%
   - Coffee and cokes: 4%
   - Self-selection: 26%
   - Hattie’s Night: 21%

4. Who are your four favorite Americans?
   - The Four Tops: 34%
   - Bo Derek and Raquel Welch: 2%
   - Joby’s intellectual inferiors: 2%

We suppose that convinced any of you who were still harboring doubts. Sometimes we're really frustrated, but we keep on going—for you, our loyal throng. The people have spoken, and we are they.

In flickerball this week, there were a host of games, and attendance shot up over the 50,000 mark. In the key game of the week, the Rastros bested the Old Men, 33-19, as John Cain starred on defense and Eddie Haskell vented his wrath on John Kelton. Hurtin' 4 Certain, the KA’s, and At Your Cervix massacred an assortment of inept freshmen and upperclassmen while the SAE’s took over the #1 spot by successfully measuring Chip Christian’s weight without the aid of a beef scale.

TOP TEN
1. SAE
2. Hurtin’ for Certain
3. KA
4. At Your Cervix
5. Rastros
6. Old Men
7. Flaming Chucks
8. Half Mast
9. Western Bass
10. Rutgers

Others receiving votes—Bear’s Girls, Reagan, Carter, Anderson.

We’re really sorry about the Yanks, Porter. Later:

WBNAHTRWN

Physics, chemistry, Juniors/Seniors: Earn over $750 per month while finishing school! Get a head start on an exciting, challenging position after graduation. While you finish school, we will pay you over $750 per month to study and maintain good grades. We have the best graduate-level nuclear training program in the world, and math, technical engineering students can qualify. You must be a U.S. citizen, less than 27 years old, have a 2.8 GPA or better, and be willing to travel worldwide. Send college transcript and letter of interest to:

Lt. Russ Jowers
Navy Nuclear Programs Manager
1001 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, N.C. 27609
or call 1-800-662-7668.