Sibi’: cosets ilibiii ask ‘te @ Bald of eit 'to's tournament held ‘at Washington and Lee last Saturday.

The tournament did have its bright spots however. Rob King easily won the heavyweight division by pinning all of his opponents; Mike Garfinkle took second place in the 158-pound class, and James Young finished fourth at 118 pounds.

King commented, “People don’t realize the time and hard work that wrestlers put into their sport. The hard work is finally starting to pay off for us.”

Davidson’s next match is a tri-meet this Saturday in Johnston starting at 11:00.

Rifle Team

Davidson’s Rifle Team nipped The Citadel by one point, 2082-2081, to capture a four-way match this past weekend. Furman and the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga finished third and fourth respectively.

John Parham once again led the Cat marksmen and his 536 total was enough to win the individual competition. Robbie Kirkendol, Pat Stuart, and freshman Doug Austin rounded out Davidson’s first team. Two members of the second four, John Hartman and George Hatfield, also shot well. The team’s victory runs the season's record to 13-6.

Next Saturday finds the rifle team in Boone for a match with always tough Appalachian State. —VAN BECK

Sports Calendar
Friday, February 1
4:00 Swimming: William & Mary Away
6:00 Women’s Basketball: Meredith College Raleigh
6:15 Wrestling: Hampden-Sydney Home
Saturday, February 2
11:00 Wrestling: Lynchburg Home
2:00 Swimming: Old Dominion Away
Rifle: Appalachian Away
7:30 Women’s Basketball: N.C. Wesleyan Rocky Mount
8:00 Basketball: Notre Dame Away
Monday, February 4
7:30 Basketball: University of Tenn., Chattanooga Away
Tuesday, February 5
7:30 Women’s Basketball: UNC-Greensboro Away
Wednesday, February 6
7:30 Basketball: Citadel

MIDWINTERS
Happy Hour

$1.40 PITCHER

Thursday 6:00 - Until
Friday 3:00 - until
Saturday 6:00 - until

Coming Soon -
Wide Screen TV

This week’s winner of the weekly win-a-keg contest is 2nd & 3rd floor Belk.

A new contest begins every Monday.

Add Experience

Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won’t be unusual to make changes as you go, and it’s entirely possible that your final career does not even exist today.

Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited to a desk and typewriter.

But when your first job is an Army 2LT, you’ll have real management experience. You'll be in charge. On a specific job assignment, you could have 30 to 40 people working for you. And you could be responsible for millions of dollars in resources.

Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of “take charge” experience civilian employers seek. It’s a margin of difference in the increasingly competitive job market. Prepare to rise to the top in your field. Make your first job 3 or 4 years as an Army Officer.

If you have two years remaining in school, you can begin ROTC this summer.

You'll be compensated financially; stimulated physically and mentally. To add experience to your degree, contact:

CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170