10—The Davidsonian—January 18, 1980

Brick brothers too innocent to answer Bonehead's crude questions

ful IMAC are back and ready to keep you on top of the peripatetic (ed. note, Don’t you guys ever
get tired of this word?) world of Davidson intramurals. In case you were wondering, B&BB spent the break in the
beautiful mountains of northern Afghanistan where we were pleasantly surprised by a multitude of unexpected visitors. The scenery was wonderful,
and our comrades were outgoing to a fault. Anyway, let’s get back to IMAC.

B&BB realize that a lot of

titillate the old gray matter. Read the question and then print the word plenipotentiary beside the best answer. Do not
take over 2 hours on this test and pledge your work. Figure out your own score. Answers are not provided.

1. Davidson is
a. a bird sanctuary.
b. a bicycle community.
c. a football mecca.
d. Chalmer’s last name.

2. To be eligible to play IMAC you must
a. have a 3.9 GPA or better.
b. be orally fixated.
c. be bigger than Sterling
d. have an anal retentive nature.
e. be able to distinguish Gulden’s from other brands of mustard.

3. In order to understand the self-selection process it is necessary to know
a. all of the above.
b. both a & d.
c. b if and only if d.

4. WDAV is
a. the most-listened-to station in John Davis’ room.
b. an acronym for Women at Davidson Are Virgins.
c. the opiate of the asses.
d. an equal opportunity employer.

5. Which of these best describes Joby’s jump-shot?
a. Skylab
b. a knuckleball
c. Heisenberg’s Uncertainty Principle
d. a rectangularly shaped shale-like material used in building houses

6. Which of these is the reason for Davidson’s cruelly unique social system?
a. girl’s preparatory schools
b. beach music
c. SPE’s
d. the lack of chemical stimulants necessary for aphrodisiacs

7. To be eligible for Sam Spencer’s seminar you must
a. be a relative of TCPZ.
b. promise not to drop it.
c. contribute $200,000 to the 1987 Program.
d. eat escargot off the bottom of a swimming pool.

8. Which of these is an Honor Code violation?
a. studying for a Minter test
b. sexual violation of Ken Norton’s barber pole
c. failure to admit the detonation of TNT in the Davidsoniana Room

9. The capital of Montana is
a. Santo Domingo.
b. the letter M.
c. Kansas.

10. George Meany
a. is dead.
b. has Bo Rein’s sense of direction.
c. is doing DNA research in Paris.
d. has decided to quit smoking for health reasons.

11. To be a Davidson Hall Counselor you must
a. be a brown nose.
b. wash Will Terry’s feet with your tongue (i.e., give him a toe job).
c. enjoy answering asinine questions.
d. not care if a SPE pledge lives on your hall.
e. get 33 miles to the gallon (your mileage may vary).

12. The Brick Brothers are
a. John Connally and Ronald
b. Harry Griffith and Bo Derek
c. Bo Rein and George Meany.
d. Rusty Colechia and his dog.

One more thing—a total outrage is going on right now at Davidson and B&BB feel it is our duty as
responsible journalists to do something about it. We're talking about the conduct of Yates Sealander at the women’s basketball games
this year.

It started innocently with mild abuse and playful throwing of ice but now it has gone too far. Women’s basketball
crowds are hypnotized by his shrieks which are reminiscent of those of the Fuhrer. He terrorizes opposing players, and oddsmakers
agree he gives the home team a ten-point advantage. Visiting teams now refer to Johnston Gym as Sealander Valley. Small
children in and around Davidson follow him in droves, chanting only, “Chainsaw, Chainsaw.” Something has to be done. As Sterling
Martin put it best, “this is bad.”

By the way, Mary Liefsen (sister of Tom) and her team come to Davidson next Tuesday for a big non-conference
tilt. Women’s Basketball Coach Palmer Muench says he’s hoping for a really hostile crowd and that any abuse will be
“justifiable.” Even from you, Yatesy. Bear. Tar Baby. Later.

Now for the Top Ten—
1. Fido and the Rear Entries
2. Cool Breeze
3. Hurtin’ 4 Certain
4. Guns of Navarone
5. Bricklayers
6. We Know We're Peripatetic
7. Corpus Cavernosum
8. Old Men
9. True Grits

Wrestlers to face Citadel after loss

By VAN BECK
Sports Editor
The Davidson Wrestling team, in its first competition since the holidays, was defeated by Campbell in a close 27-21 contest
Tuesday night. The Cats were still in contention with two weight classes remaining, despite having forfeited matches at 126 and
142 lbs. Decision victories were gained by Scott Smith in the 136 lbs. class, Mike Garfinkel at 158 and heavyweight
Rob King, while freshman Tim Brotherton pinned his opponent at 167. The balance of Davidson’s points came on a Campbell
forfeit in the 177 lbs. class.

Coach Bob Estock was pleased with the team’s performance considering “that Campbell is a pretty good wrestling school and we
gave away two weight classes.” He cited Brotherton’s victory on a second period pin as a good effort.

This weekend finds the Cat wrestlers in Charleston for a tournament at the Citadel. Upcoming home matches include Hampden-Sydney and
Lynchburg on February 1 and 2.

THE NEW MANAGEMENT OF

THE PEREGRINE HOUSE

now offers

DELIVERY SERVICE 7 DAYS A WEEK

WEEKLY WIN-A-KEG CONTEST FIRST PERSON OR GROUP TO BRING IN 25 OF THIS WEEK’S COUPONS WINS THE WEEKLY FREE KEG
OF BEER, TO BE CONSUMED ON THE PREMISES.

7:30-11:30
$5.00 minimum
$1.00 delivery charge

JOIN THE PEREGRINE HOUSE BEFORE AND IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE DAVIDSON BASKETBALL GAME THIS SATURDAY AND MONDAY WHEN BEER WILL BE
ONLY .25 A CUP. COME EARLY 6:00-7:00 AND START CELEBRATING BEFORE THE GAME.
