(Brad Kerr)

Winter term numbs and depresses students

By AIDA DOSS
Features Editor

Ask any senior. In fact, ask any Davidson student. Even if you've got two independent studies and a seminar (as I do this year), Winter Term is the pits. Minds turn to yogurt or take a vacation in Palm Springs, bodies congeal on the sidewalk and succumb to alien invasion, and the spirit in general takes a beating that not even the Eternal Flame could endure.

What is it that makes this stretch of time so achingly and overwhelmingly depressing? I have my answer; I’m a senior. Here I sit, biding my time until my release into the “real world,” while June is surprisingly far away, the distance being measured by the length of a thesis and several term papers. For those who aren't seniors, the distance must seem further and even more unconquerable.

And then there is the winter weather—that chemist’s nightmare concoction of wind, rain, and slush topped off by gray skies and just-above-freezing temperatures that chills the heart and numbs the bone (or vice versa). The weather is probably the easiest thing to pin the blame on. Dr. Barbara Ballard, one of Davidson's two full-time professional psychologists, told me that in the winter people tend to be “cooped up more, in closer proximity to one another, and there seems to be less opportunity for play.” She stressed the importance of “play,” which she defined as “respite from routine.” It could be as simple as taking a walk around the perimeter of the campus or as strenuous as a Frisbee or football match. But the body needs exercise to keep the blood circulating which in turn keeps the brain functioning (a taxing but inviolable requirement for remaining long at Davidson). “Relaxation can be hard work,” Ballard said, “but it is worth the effort. A person can’t work well twelve hours a day.”

Also adding to the winter blues is the unfortunate timing of the whole term. Because of the three-week Christmas break, what we have in effect is a thirteen-week term during the ugliest part of the year. The fact that the days are shorter now doesn’t seem to help much, either. Did you realize that when you finish reading this article you will still have over half a Winter Term to go? If that’s not disheartening....

And finally, for whatever reason, there seems to be a greater strain put on personal relationships during this eon of days. Break-ups are more frequent (though no less painful for that fact), family tensions loom larger, friendships are tested by the pressures of deadlines and reviews. Perhaps the nerves steal some rawness from the winter winds or perhaps a reaction to the holiday spirit inevitably sets in, but people are noticeably more cynical, more impatient, more unreasonable.

The desire to escape this combination of melodramatic muck and harsh reality leads to some potentially harmful practices. The use of drugs and alcohol is a common method of temporary escape which may become more permanent and more difficult to deal with as the term wears on. “There are quite a number of people who have significant problems with alcohol,” Ballard said. “I get concerned about the drinking. It’s a shame to me when people’s lives get that stressful.”

Ballard also commented that she was surprised by the number of “executive disorders” such as ulcers, colitis, and problems with tranquilizers or stress which were turning up in students.

Certainly not all of a student's physical or emotional problems are due to the vagaries of Winter Term, nor does everyone suffer equally. Also, Ballard said, it is not abnormal for moods to swing “from hill to valley.” However, she added that an extreme longevity or intensity of depression is a warning sign not to be ignored. When normal functions—eating, sleeping, studying—are impaired, the situation becomes serious. If you suspect that you're in the grip of some winter plague, do go and talk to someone about it. Listeners can help immensely in the working out or airing of a problem.

As long as there is a Winter Term at Davidson, there will probably be Winter Term blues. If they hit you (as they’ve occasionally hit me, even out of season) don’t panic and don’t fall asleep. Even a thirteen-week term won’t last forever, and once it’s over there'll be all those sunny days out at the lake to congratulate yourself on having made it and to worry about next winter.

(John Highsmith)