[IE DAVIDSONIAN | Founded 1914

Mountain Boy!

I really don’t feel like writing a straight editorial this week, and perhaps you don’t feel like reading one either. Instead, I'd like to give you an inside look at the people who work for The Davidsonian (two at least) and how they go about “getting the story.”

One of the prime realities of working for The Davidsonian is frustration. People have reviews; what you thought would make a great story turns out to be based on exaggerated rumor; your typesetter passes out giving blood; and people complain, and complain, and complain.

Last week was probably the most frustrating of all. Things went so badly we were forced to print only 8 pages instead of our usual 12. And even then we got complaints.

I get a phone call the night after the paper comes out Thursday afternoon. “Hello, is this Mark Barrett?”
“Yes.”
“Well, f— you.” Thanks.

Someone wakes up my roommate, Editor John Siman, to tell him the same thing more eloquently. Chastised by such cogent and well-reasoned criticism, John and I started roaming the campus Thursday looking for ways to improve the paper. We met pseudo-vegetarian Laura Perry in the Union, and when she said she wanted to eat steak, we knew we were on to something big.

The three of us raced to The Davidsonian Action News Team Mobile Unit (my car), determined to make it to the Jack’s in Concord before we were scooped by the Update. Although going into a four-wheel drift getting onto Concord Road slowed us down a little, I had the Mobile Unit up to 80 before leaving the city limits. We passed our first car in front of Will’s house. Already picking up the newspaperman’s attention to detail and obsession with fairness but perhaps not aware of the urgency of the situation, Laura soon noted, “Mark, don’t pass cars on the double yellow line. You’re scaring the hell out of me.” Drawing from my years of experience in the business, I replied, “It’s pretty safe when you’re going 80. Everyone else is just standing still.”

After passing about five cars illegally and going by a car stopped at a stoplight on the right-hand side, I was forced to slow down slightly by Concord traffic. But I had picked up speed again pretty well by the time we passed a patrolman parked by the side of the road. The blue lights started flashing, and I noted, “This is a bad thing.”

The patrolman glanced at my driver’s license, then asked, “Do you have any idea how fast you were going?”
“No.”
“Let’s go sit in the patrol car.”

While John and Laura, sure that I had lost my license, were debating which of them would get use of my car, I quakingly told the patrolman that I was surely going too fast, and that speeding was “a pretty stupid thing to do.” He had caught me doing 55 in a 35 mph zone. After looking at my license again he replied, “Are you really from Cherokee County?” (Cherokee County, my home, is tucked far away in the mountains of North Carolina.)
“Yeah, why?”
“I used to serve on the police force there. Haven’t ever met anybody from Cherokee down here. Do you know...”

We talked about home for two or three minutes, then the patrolman said he would only write the ticket as 50 in a 35 so that I wouldn’t lose my license. I shook his hand and apologized again, but then we started back on home. I had mowed his landlord’s grass and one of his cousins was a friend of mine. He interrupted me. “I just can’t give a ticket to a mountain boy,” he said. “By the way, where were you headed?”
“Jack’s.”
“Well, you missed the turn, go back two blocks and take a left.”

—Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

General Davidson

To the Editor:

I am sure that there are others, but the only monument to General Davidson that I know is at Hicks Crossroads, at the intersection of Beaty’s Ford Road and Brown’s Mill Road just south of North Carolina Highway #73. Last...fall I had to climb the fence to find out what it was. It seems that it would take just a little care and a few flowers to make this an attractive memorial to the general for whom your college is named. Is there no student organization that’s interested? 

M.A. Serrell
Charlotte

MD Bike-a-thon & Bluegrass Band

To the Editor:

Have you seen comedian Jerry Lewis on campus this week? His message to Davidson is no laughing matter. Lewis leads a national fund-raising drive to find a cure for a wide range of crippling diseases under the general category of Muscular Dystrophy. MD is primarily a hereditary disease that causes degeneration of the skeletal muscles and sometimes those of the heart, eventually resulting in an inability to walk. Breathing difficulty often accompanies MD, and heart failure and infection usually bring death by the age of 30. MD’s symptoms first appear in late childhood, but often are not evident until the late teens and early twenties. There are essentially no effective cures. One of the disease’s most painful effects is the loss of a young family member or friend.

Davidson’s SAE’s will sponsor a Pride Ride for MD on Saturday, April 26 at 2:00. Starting from the Main Street parking lot, the ten-mile course will terminate at the Lake Campus for plenty of sunshine and a late afternoon cookout. After the last leg of the course back to Davidson, it will be time for some foot-stompin’ bluegrass music at Rusk house. The band will feature Elizabeth and Frank Bright’s talented father, Fletcher, and friends.

If you need a bike (or have one to loan), a sponsor sheet, or more details, call Steve Carter at 892-6423.

Steve Carter ‘82

ATO Madness

To the Editor:

Last night ATO initiated its Project to Exploit Little-Known Contemporary Cultures (dubbed PELKCC by the opposition). Each member of ATO participated by trying to mold their minds to think and therefore begin to act like an undisclosed neighboring culture. With a few days of preparedness training after suppertimes behind them, ATO members donned khaki pants, relatively expensive pastel-colored sports shirts, add-a-beads, and make-up.

More revealing than any scenario is the following passage from the soon-to-be-published book by the ATO members called An Index to Little-Known Contemporary Cultures:

Add-a-beads. 46-50. Unorthodox stringings. 78-92. Top-siders. 46, 50. Marxist interpretation. 1-14. The essential breed of cattle. 16-19. Cheaper imitations. 101-78. Queens College Visitors. 95. fold-out. 95-95. make-up. 101-78. [see also veils. 20.]

More revealing than any dry index is the following hastily sketched scenario, written by our Writer There. Well, two streakers caused. Spills were prohibited. The unusually ATO habit. napkins. bonfire as big as. Make-up first-time. Unrecognizable women going in groups of seven. Well...Wait...What’s this? Hold on folks. I’ve just been handed the official findings of the study group. They follow this uncut.

Findings: Eating fast, repressing burps, carrying big red cups, wearing restrictive neckwear and clothes that bind. All this adds up. To one who reacted, “I can’t how people could live like this full-time.” Another observer noted, “With running in the nude as the only release, it’s no wonder. Well...the music...the horseshoes...the whole tribe... Yes About a 2.

Paul Lazarro ‘80

Letters

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $10.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Although people are in and out of the office practically all day, the editor maintains regular office hours of 3 to 4 Monday and Tuesday afternoons. Call or drop by to complain, suggest a story or picture idea, buy an advertisement, berate, arm wrestle, or perhaps even praise.

Mark Barrett