THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 24
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
May 2, 1980

Cartmill’s role defined clearly at last
By MARK ELMORE
Staff Correspondent

Over a month since Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill resigned, his new duties have finally been outlined. As tenured Physical Education Professor, Cartmill will be concerned with developmental projects—something he wanted to do when he became Athletic Director in 1974. Physical Education Director Sterling Martin said that since Cartmill will concentrate his efforts on development, “a real improvement can be brought to the recreation (See Cartmill, page 11).

The Davidson lacrosse team whips the University of South Carolina, 21-4. (Trey Thies)

Physical Education Committee ignored by all parties
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole is frustrated with the Physical Education Advisory Council. “Stop pretending it exists and abolish it, or have it start doing its job,” Maydole said. “PE is important in students’ lives... We ought to be working on (problems in that department).” The Council has met twice this year. Both meetings were called only after Maydole started “making noises.”

“The main function (of the Council) is to advise on policy,” Academic Vice President and Council Chairman Price Zimmermann said. “If there’s no policy matter coming up, there’s no use wasting time (at meetings).” Maydole thinks the committee should have had a say in the redefining of the duties of Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill and Physical Education Director Sterling Martin. (Cartmill resigned as athletic director in March and was named physical education professor.) The faculty by-laws specify that the Council is supposed to advise on personnel, Maydole said. Zimmermann, however, said he did not interpret the by-laws to include individual personnel matters. Furthermore, he said in this case “there has been no real change”—hence nothing for the committee to discuss. “Mr. Cartmill was already professor of physical education (as well as athletics director),” Zimmerman said. “Mr. Martin has always reported to Mr. Cartmill... and he will go on doing so.”

Maydole wants the Council to be involved in the planning of the proposed sports complex. Also, the Council should help resolve issues such as the

Focus
Trustees make decisions, not administer
By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

The ownership, management, and control of Davidson College are vested in the Trustees of the College. — Trustee by-laws

The Davidson Board of Trustees will be on campus May 7 and 8 for their Spring meeting. These 42 men and women form one of the most influential groups of the College. The Trustees serve a “policy-making role,” College President Samuel Spencer said. Spencer quoted Notre Dame’s President Theodore Hesburgh as saying, “The Trustees do not administer the institution, but their most important task is to see that it is well administered.” The Trustees don’t make day-to-day decisions, Assistant to the President John Cunningham said. However, in cases where major decisions have to be made, the Trustees have “ultimate power,” he added.

Spencer pointed out that the power of Davidson’s Trustees is comparable to that of trustees at private institutions across the country. According to the Danforth Commission on Church Colleges and Universities, “the most effective working boards are composed of capable men and women from a variety of backgrounds: Ministers, lawyers, doctors, businessmen, educators, farmers, bankers, and many others.” At Davidson, 22 Trustees are elected from the various presbyteries across North Carolina; 2 are electedfrom the two Florida presbyteries; 10, who must be alumni, are in relation to the physical education program to intercollegiate athletics, Maydole said, especially at a time when “we are reshifting our priorities in athletics.” Zimmermann said the Council has not examined proposals for the sports complex because there are none yet. “The (Council) will be invited to join... in a review of the facilities plan at such time as we have one,” he said. The majority of Council members want to remain tacit until the visiting evaluation (See Maydole, page 11).

Thefts mar Spring Frolics
By BOE YOUNG
Staff Writer

“A new rash” of larceny throughout town has plagued the off-campus fraternities and ATO, according to Davidson police Chief R.H. Mills. Both the FIJIs and the Sig Eps were victims of stereo thefts during Spring Frolics weekend. Also, during Frolics, John Turnburke and Jeff Coleman, roommates at ATO, had $95 stolen from them. However, Public Safety Director Jackie Hughes said that he knew nothing of the ATO incident and that thefts at on-campus eating houses have been “awfully low this year.”

A thief entered the FIJI House Friday night, April 18, probably through an open window, Mills said. The doors were locked at the time, according to FIJI President Paul Costel. Eight hundred dollars worth of stereo equipment was stolen. (See Thefts, page 11).

chosen by the Trustees, and 8, who also must be alumni, are elected by the alumni. “Each Trustee brings his own talent,” Cunningham said. The group is fairly congenial. “They won't put someone on the committee that won’t get along,” Cunningham said. Each Trustee serves a four-year term. Three consecutive terms may be served; however, one year must elapse after the third term before a trustee is eligible again. Some Trustees have more time and are more visible, Cunningham said. Those Trustees living in North Carolina have a better opportunity for involvement. Dean Rusk, for example, is very busy at the University of Georgia Law School and has less time (See Trustees, page 11).

Fundraising Department loses three
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Three of the six members of Davidson’s Development Department will not be returning next year. Vice President for Development Duane Dittman announced his resignation early this week. On July 1 he will assume the post of Vice President for University Advancement at the College of William and Mary. Development Officer Alan Lee will become the Vice President for Development and College Relations at Queens College at the end of May. Matthew Covington, Secretary of the Parents’ Council and Board of Visitors, will enter Columbia Theological Seminary in the fall.

Dittman, who came to Davidson in 1977, is the third Vice President for Development since 1971. The other two, David Cornell and Craven Williams, are now college presidents, College President Samuel Spencer said. Spencer said the College will “move as rapidly as possible” to replace Dittman and Lee. Dittman’s successor will be chosen first so the new Vice President can select a compatible Development Officer. Covington’s position is being discontinued.

As Vice President, Dittman coordinated the Development, Alumni, and Communications offices. His main responsibility was the 1987 Program, Davidson’s 11-year, $35 million fundraising effort. Spencer said that because the 1987 Program is a “long-range effort” Dittman’s departure “will not have any (See Development, page 11).

Jeff Williams helped with WDAV fundraising (Stephen Enniss).