10—The Davidsonian—October 24, 1980

Football is not this week's BB&DB subject

Sports Calendar

Saturday, October 25
2:00 Football: Hampden-Sydney
2:00 Soccer: Western Carolina
Women’s Cross Country: UNC/Wilmington
Men’s Cross Country: UNC/Wilmington, Citadel

Sunday, October 26
2:00 Soccer: Western Carolina

Wednesday, October 29
3:30 Soccer: USC/Spartanburg

Dear BB & DB,
How are you? I am fine.

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

Over the past few weeks, we've gotten truckloads of mail and we figured it was time to respond. Most of
the letters sucked but here are a few of the good ones.

Dear BB & DB,
We think that Ed’s a jerk for scheduling Lehigh for Homecoming. Doesn’t he know that we're supposed to win that
game? Now we've got these stupid haircuts and have to wear hats to all our classes.
The Football Team
P.S. Somebody get that fool in the tuxedo from behind us—he’s confusing our defensive signals.

Dear BB & DB,
Why doesn’t anyone like us? We really are great people and like each other a lot. Why don’t people just
get off our backs and leave us alone?
Sincerely,
(Mike Kehs) KAs, ATOs, SPEs

Dear Clones,
Get out of our face.

Dear Bad Bernard & Bonehead,
You may not think I know what’s going on around here but I do. For example, look on the handout
for Parent’s Weekend. It’s right there in my letter. We play Lehigh that Saturday afternoon. See, I’m not so oblivious!
Uhoh, Sam

Dear Sam,
Right. Whatever you say.

(Continued from page 8)
the faculty several years ago, it was suggested that such a proposal should come in the context of a study
of the entire curriculum. The committee has now made such a study.

In addition to considering the merits of particular courses and disciplines for inclusion in the requirements for a Davidson degree,
the committee gave careful consideration to the general question of the balance of required and elective courses and to the
particular questions of the impact of these requirements on students whose “major” programs are extensive and restrictive such as pre-med,
biology, biology with humanities, and economics. In general, students of all majors will have approximately the same number of electives
as they currently have. Some will have more and some will have fewer, depending upon the proficiencies which they bring
from their high school work.

Implementation Of The Recommendations
If these recommendations are adopted, the Educational Policy Committee will invite departments to review their course offerings and submit to
it descriptions of courses proposed for satisfaction of the revised distribution requirements. After review, the Educational Policy Committee will present
the proposals to the faculty, along with its recommendations. As stated in the proposal, we intend that courses satisfying the
revised distribution requirements be broad in scope, affording systematic introductions to the methods and subject matters of the particular disciplines.
One antici-

Text Of EPC Report

Dear DB,
I really thought that we could win that game. I mean, they were only ranked third in the country. It
wasn’t like we were playing somebody good. I just can’t understand it.
Ed
P.S. I guess I'd better take Ohio State off the schedule for next year.

Dear Ed,
A lot of people liked the game, especially the part where they could leave when it started to rain.

Dear IMAC,
We'd like to try and drum up some support for ourselves. After all, we work damn hard to learn how
to play the “Theme from Hogan’s Heroes,” but all those Pikes do is tell us to shut up. What do
they think Davidson is? Who yells at sports events around here? Boy, it’s disgusting.
The Pep Band

Dear Pep,
Try not showing up to the game and see if anyone misses you. You’re almost as annoying as “Hail Davidson.”

Dear Haskell (c/o BB & DB),
My rug is really dirty and I need to clean it up for Parents’ Weekend. Can I borrow your nose
to use as a vacuum cleaner?
Dirty

Dear Dirty,
NASA borrowed the nose for use as a wind tunnel. It will be back soon though.

Dear BB & DB,
I didn’t think you stated my side of the story fairly when you wrote about the editing of your column.
I’d like to point out several.
Mark Barrett

Dear Barrett,
Sorry to cut you off but we think you’re offensive.
BB & DB

Dear IMAC,
What fo u?
Lady in Snack Bar

Dear Lady,
Not you.
DB

This week in flickerball, the SAEs and Chris “too qui” Daniels won 94-0. Nice score. The Rastros beat down the
Old Men 35-13. Everybody else either won or lost. Tampa Bay is the worst team in football. The late word
from Abadan: Iran has in the nickel defense trying tostop Iraq’s explosive air attack. Nice bathroom, 3rd Sentelle. Good job,
Wally Beaver Band. Buffet this weekend. Blue had a great time at Homecoming. Later.

This week’s Top Ten:
1) Lehigh
2) SAE
3) Hurtin 4 Certin
4) Rastros
5) Pikes
6) At Your Cervix
7) Old Men
8) Phi Q II
9) Get Rich Quick
10) At Uranus

An anticipated consequence of the adoption of the proposal is a reduction in the number of courses satisfying the requirements
and, hence, greater stability and predictability in enrollment patterns. In reviewing their offerings and designing courses to meet the spirit
of the new requirements, departments will be requested to keep in mind the general goals of the distribution requirements as
outlined in Part II. The general criteria which the Educational Policy Committee will use in reviewing basic courses are stated
below. Departments will be requested to formulate for the guidance of instructors teaching the basic courses specific statements of the
courses and how they are expected to function as introductions to the several disciplines.

General Guidelines for Basic Courses Satisfying the Revised Distribution Requirements in Areas I, II, III, IV:
1. The course must offer a systematic introduction to the assumptions, methods, and subject matter of the discipline. It should
familiarize the student with the history of the discipline and with the formulation of its particular mode (in relation to
those of other disciplines) of defining knowledge, posing questions, and seeking answers.
2. As an introduction, the course should be self-contained. Normally, no prerequisites or prior acquaintance with the field should be
necessary. Whether the same course should serve both majors and non-majors is a matter of departmental choice.
3. The course should be oriented toward principal problems, areas, and approaches of the discipline. It should not deal solely
with a single specialized area or method.
4. The course should be broad enough to give the student some idea of the borders between the discipline taught
and other disciplines and an awareness of the possibility of relationships among them.

General Guidelines for Courses Satisfying the Area V Requirement:
Courses proposed as satisfying this requirement should be designed to make students aware of the pluralism in our world and
to provide them with an understanding of a culture that is different from those of the United States and Western
Europe with their Judeo-Christian-Greco roots (as dealt with in the Humanities sequence, for example). Obviously, many such cultures lie outside
the western hemisphere in the Near East, the Far East, South Asia, and Africa. Others, however, may be found in
Central and South America, and even in North America. Course content might focus on literature, art, government, religion, social structure,
economics, or any other topic so long as exposure to a non-Western culture is provided. The committee wishes to include
courses that provide students with insights into the problems of developing nations, especially as their developmental status contributes to or
results from their unique cultures.

Minority Report On Language Requirement:
Though we recognize and appreciate the value of foreign language fluency and we understand this to be the intent of
the foreign language requirement, we oppose the proposed change for the following reasons:
1. We do not feel that the potentials of the first three terms of language instruction have been fully realized.
To mention a federal government analogy, we do not feel that throwing money after a problem is the way to
solve it.
2. We believe that the content and quality of the upper-level courses will fall. At present, only those students with
a keen interest in language study are enrolled in these courses. Forcing students with little interest or desire to study
a language to enroll in courses above the 20-level is a great injustice to interested students who are anxious to
further their knowledge of a language.
3. We do not believe that a student who struggles through three terms will benefit from another term of instruction
or that it will significantly enhance his understanding and knowledge of the language.
4. We fear that requiring four terms of language instruction will discourage a student from beginning a new language.
5. We are concerned about the effect of requiring an additional term of language instruction. The attempt to broaden one’s
horizons should not be sacrificed to the over-emphasis on the acquisition of skills. Each required course reduces a student’s elective
options and consequently limits the diversity of his exposure.
6. We are not convinced that the language departments can handle this additional load, given their present sizes. We cannot,
in good conscience, recommend to the faculty that they add a fourth term to the language requirement. We do, however,
recommend that the content and instruction in the 001, 10, and 20 level courses be reviewed and if necessary restructured
in order to maximize their impact.
