Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

re cence? gas awed aero? . . lor saao*
10—The Davidsonian— September 19, 1980

What in the heck is a Doughboy?

By THE BRICK BROTHERS
AND THE DOUGHBOYS
Egad, IMAC fans, the Brick Brothers are back for another exciting season and so are you. We're sporting a new look this year since our erstwhile partner in crime, Bonehead, has left us for a fulfilling career in the rehabilitation of peripatetic octagenarians. However, do not despair loyal fans, for we have chosen two anaclitic and corpulent youths from a raunchy little Virginia town to replace our departed comrade. These fellows got this highly desirable position by fulfilling 3 simple criteria: 1) They both hate Ronald Reagan, 2) neither is a KA, 3) both are funny. The last two are of course mutually exclusive. Being that the KA era has ended, it seems likely that that despicable fraternity will join the SPE’s as the principal targets of our justifiable wrath. The chance that the KA’s will escape our wrath is roughly equivalent to the chance that Joby finds a cure for cancer. Anyway, the key is that the Doughboys have joined the Brick Brothers in the hallowed halls of IMACdom.

Now, moving along, we know that the summer has rusted your cranial matter to the point of no return. So we have devised a simple and scientifically approved test to hone your analytical skills. Here is your ticket to academic rejuvenation. Simply match the quote with the correct speaker.

1) “The answer to the world’s food shortages may be found in vending machines.”

a) George F. Nabisco

b) Ronald Reagan

c) Joby Merten

d) Liberace

2) “We’re doing the things to help people do the things they want to do now in today’s world when the things that need to be done need to be done by the people who will do the things in the future to help people keep on doing the things that haven’t been done yet.”

a) Exxon

b) Gulf

c) Shell

d) The Republican Party

3) “I saw war, and tried to escalate it; I saw blacks and tried to suppress them; and I saw China, and tried to divide it.”

a) Ted Kennedy at Bobby Kennedy’s funeral

b) Ronald Reagan at a KKK meeting

c) Will Terry at convocation

d) Angela Davis at the beanery

4) “The joy of sex can only be equalled by the euphoria of mountain-climbing.”

a) T.C.P. Zitamerman

b) Marilyn Monroe

c) Ed Farrell

d) Grover Meetze

5) “I was appalled and shocked to learn that Davidson fraternities are allowed to offer oral encouragements.”

a) Sam Spencer

b) An ostrich with its head stuck firmly in the sand

c) Ava Spencer

d) Idi Amin Dada

6) “Jimmy Carter is a long-haired hippie-type, pinko fag; I bet he’s even got a Commie flag tacked up on the wall inside of his garage.”

a) Charlie Daniels

b) Ronald Reagan

c) Charlie Daniels

d) Ronald Reagan

7) “I came, I saw, I fail.”

a) Joby Merten

b) various Davidson freshmen

c) Woodrow Wilson

d) Nebraska

8) “Next to the hot debate over evolution, the repeal of child labor laws and the passage of the Homestead Act are the two most crucial issues of this campaign. Bring me some more KIWI for my hair, Nancy.”

a) Ronald Reagan

b) James K. Polk

c) William Jennings Bryan

d) George Brett

Answers will be provided in next week’s issue of Boy's Life magazine.

Next week—flickerball preview and Top Ten. Until then, kiss and make-up with Minter, Richie D. . . Slater.

Money to give away

The Davidsonian needs one or more darkroom workers and several photographers. Darkroom workers will be paid $3.10 an hour and can get in as many as six hours per week.

Paid positions in photography are available as well. We would prefer experienced darkroom workers but can train. Photographers should have experience.

Come by The Davidsonian office at 1:30 Sunday afternoon or contact Mark Barrett at 892-6090 or -4252 at mealtimes.

Add experience to your degree.

The world can be big and bad for some. For others it looks much easier. Survival means different things to different people. Is it luck or preparation?

Preparation seems to be the key. Consider the leadership training and management skills you can develop in Army ROTC. The edge. That margin of difference that can put you ahead in the big, bad world of tough job competition.

You may be a sophomore. Or have just two years remaining in school. It’s not too late to add Army ROTC. And add experience to your degree. Contact

CPT Neil Touchet
ROTC Dept
Davidson College
Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170

Army ROTC.

Learn what it takes to lead.