(Continued from page 3)

deny rights at home to save them abroad. Why bother? America is also not looked up to as the guardian
of freedom by anyone except Americans. The image of ourselves we actually project is much worse than what we think
others see. The image we have created abroad looks much more like a clumsy, blind ogre than a calm restorer
of liberty. And unfortunately, the ogre is the image we reinforce with our rash threats and misplaced military moves. The
first step toward restoring a good image would be to realize how low our image sits now.

Perhaps one cause of the excessive heat is the uninsulated system of pipes which runs throughout the building and unleashes
heat into the rooms. Meetze described a plan designed to alleviate the excessive heat. An experimental valve system will be
installed in Cannon Dorm next year which should enable students to regulate the heat in their own rooms, Meetze said.
"This should even out the temperature and will keep people from burning up."

In other attempts to conserve, the Physical Plant is decreasing wattage in lighting throughout the campus in order to cut
back on lighting costs. However, there are limits to what can be cut, especially in buildings like the Library where
the heating system is derived from the lights, Meetze said. Meetze also said that when solar power becomes economically feasible,
"we're ready to move." "We've already been experimenting for two years with a solar house," he added. The roof of
the new Commons will be able to accommodate solar heating panels. The Library already has the capability to be switched
over to solar power.

The availability of energy is the second problem, Meetze said. "Several years ago we anticipated some type of fuel shortage;
however, we didn't have any reserve fuel at that time." Since then, the College has installed tanks with enough reserve
fuel to accommodate heating and cooling needs for an entire year.

(Continued from page 1)

Regarding disciplinary action for destruction of emergency action, one of which is to turn violators over to the state authorities
for prosecution. Bolding expressed concern that "most students don't realize how serious this problem is. Fire is a constant threat
to dorm living, especially in older buildings like the ones at Davidson." Bolding said the present phone system—when in service—rings
immediately in the Davidson Town Police office when a phone is lifted from the receiver. If the glass encasements do
not deter abuse, alternatives to the present system would be an on-campus emergency number which would have to be staffed
at all hours, or the 911 emergency call on regular phones. "The 911 call provides a much slower response as
the call is received in Charlotte."

To answer Bob Barnes: it would be great if a large majority of Americans would refuse to fight. A resounding
"no" would force our leaders to take a better look at their decisions. It might even push them to form
mature policies. We don't need to go to war in Afghanistan to maintain our freedom. A leader who thinks that
the Soviet Union threatens the U.S. by taking over one of their small neighboring allies is a paranoid leader. Our
leaders wear the rose-colored glasses, but sometimes it is hard to figure out whether they keep the sun out or
prevent their blindness from being seen.

February 15, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

(Continued from page 1)

The selection process will use...a random number computer program similar to the one used for course registration. The computer will
fill as many first choices as possible, Clark explained. Then, it will go through the second choices in reverse order.
Students who still do not receive an eating assignment will be processed through their third choices. In the past, the
computer went through all three choices of each person before moving to the next student.

(Continued from page 1)

would make an already challenging campaign more difficult, but said, "I think it’s possible." To reach the original $35 million
target, Davidson must raise $3.2 million per year. So far, gifts, excluding trusts, have averaged $3.43 million per year for
a total of $11,762,000 as of December 31, 1979. This compares to $2.2 million annually during the six years preceding
the program. The $3.43 million annual figure is sufficient to cover the obsolete $35 million goal. However, it will not
even approach the more realistic $45 million goal.

A slow start handicapped the fundraising drive. The first College President Samuel Spencer said Williams’ leaving postponed the effective beginning
of the program but will not affect final results. The 1969 Program did not receive a significant amount of funds
initially, which is generally the case in shorter fund drives. This is normal for a long-range drive, Spencer explained. "For
an eleven-year program, you expect contributors to build." Whether inflation and recession will undermine expectations of increased donations by making
contributors more reluctant to give remains to be seen. Already, Davidson is plagued by a low level of alumni support.

Projections for the program estimate that 35% of the funds will come from alumni, 25% from parents and friends, 25%
from foundations, 10% from corporations, and the rest from churches and other sources. However, alumni giving is "not that good,"
Dittman said. Last year, only 27% of Davidson alumni gave to the annual fund. The average gift was $92. A
recent survey of 66 major private universities in The Chronicle of Higher Education indicated that the percentage of alumni who
give ranges from 3.2% to 56% and the average amount given from $13.47 to $333.58. But Dittman said he had
worked at schools where alumni community pride such as Davidson should have a better record of alumni giving than a
large university. Dittman also cited a recent research survey about the low level of alumni support. He speculated that alumni
were too involved in their own communities or thought that the Duke Endowment's yearly gift of 5% of its annual
grants satisfies Davidson's financial needs. The turbulence of the 1960s as well as changes in athletic policies and the fraternity
system may also have hurt alumni giving, Dittman said.

Most of the solicitation of funds is done by volunteers, Dittman said. Although there is "not a great deal" of
faculty involvement in general solicitation, many do help in some capacity. They would be willing to help with fundraising since
$19 million of the $35 million will be used for endowment for faculty, student aid, the library, and special programs.
Not only faculty salaries and programs, but Davidson’s survival will depend on the success of its development program in the
next twenty years. According to recent predictions, 200 to 500, or even 1500 American private colleges will close. Fundraising is
obviously of crucial importance. The information booklet for the 1987 Program states that "there are few investments more worthwhile than
Davidson College." To convince the number of contributors necessary to the program’s success, Davidson will have to use aggressive, innovative
techniques. Most of all, it will have to renounce its present "Everything is O.K." attitude and come to grips with
economic realities.

Valentine's Night Wine
50¢ a glass
Carafes $1.50
Pitchers $1.40
