“Back Page

Arthur Lawrence, Organist

Arthur Lawrence will perform Monday, November 10 at 9:00 p.m. at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Lawrence, a native of
North Carolina, received his degree in 1969 from Davidson College, where he studied organ with Philip Gehring and Jan Schinhan.
He also earned the M.M. degree in music theory from Florida State University, the A.M.L.S. degree in music librarianship from
the University of Michigan, and the Doctor of Musical Arts degree from Stanford University. His harpsichord work was with the
late Putnam Aldrich and Margaret Fabrizio. Lawrence has performed throughout the United States, as well as Europe, and has published
many articles dealing with the organ and the harpsichord. He has served as a member of the faculty at the
Centre College of Kentucky, at the University of Notre Dame, and at Saint Mary's College of Notre Dame. Currently, Lawrence
is Editor and Publisher of The Diapason, an international organ and harpsichord journal, and also the organist-choirmaster of St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church in La Porte, Indiana.

The program of Monday night’s recital includes Paul Hindemith’s “Sonata I”, “Noel Suisse” by Louis-Claude Daquin, “Prelude and Fugue in
A Minor” by Johannes Brahms, Cesar Franck’s “Fantasie in C Major, Opus 16” and “Passacaglia and Fugue in C minor,
BWV 582” by Johann Sebastian Bach.

Oliver Appears in 900 Room

Oliver, known for his hit songs “Good Morning Starshine” and “Jean,” will perform in the 900 Room. Oliver is the
stage name for William Oliver Swofford, a native North Carolinian. A member of various music groups from an early age,
Oliver realized that music was to be his constant passion and livelihood. After entering the University of North Carolina on
a Morehead Scholarship, he joined two other hopefuls to form The Virginians, a folk-rock group that had several recordings on
Epic Records. Subsequently, the group changed its name to The Good Earth and secured a New York recording contract with
Bob Crewe. When the group disbanded, Oliver decided to record alone using Oliver as his professional name. “Good Morning, Starshine”
from the musical Hair was Oliver's first recording effort and sold over a million copies. “Jean” from the movie The
Prime of Miss Jean Brodie was his second success. The two songs earned him a Grammy nomination. Although a composer
in his own right, Oliver is also an interpreter of diverse artists such as John Prine, Dave Brubeck, and Stephen
Sondheim. Oliver will perform two shows at 9:30 and 11:00 on both Friday and Saturday. Admission will be $1.00. Friday
night's shows will be followed by a reception.

Events On Campus

Thursday, November 6
7:30 Look Homeward, Angel - Hodson Hall

Friday, November 7
8:00 Look Homeward, Angel - Hodson Hall
8 & 10:30 Pop Film: One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest - Love Auditorium
9:30 & 11:00 Oliver—Folk Singer - 900 Room
8:15 Organ Recital by Judith Hancock - DCPC

Saturday, November 8
12-6 p.m. Charlotte Area Educational Consortium presents the Student Talent Show - Union

Thursday, November 13
A full service—I.D. required, 900 Room
7-9:30 Square Dance - Front of Chambers
8:00 Look Homeward, Angel - Hodson Hall
9:30 & 11:00 Oliver—Folk Singer. Admission $1.00 - 900 Room
9:30 Polynesian Paradise Party - Sig Ep House

Monday, November 10
9:00 p.m. Organ Recital by Arthur Lawrence - DCPC”November 10: 9:00 Vesper Concert with Arthur Lawrence, organist — DCPC

Wednesday, November 12:
12:30 Open Luncheon with guest speaker Mary Thomberry, Political Science professor. Room 900.
8:00 Fine Film: Basic Training. Love Auditorium.
6:15 Sign-up dinner with guest speaker Victor Herman. Morrison Room.
7:30 Victor Herman speaking on "My 45 Years in Russia." Room 900.

Friday, November 14:
10 a.m. Reception with Victor Herman: Informal question and answer session. Room 200.
8 & 10:30 Pop Film: A Clockwork Orange. Love Auditorium.

Victor Herman Plans Visit
Victor Herman, an American citizen imprisoned in a Soviet labor camp for more than ten years, will speak here on
“My 45 years in the U.S.S.R,” November 13 and 14. Herman will speak at 7:30 p.m. November 13 in the
900 Room and answer questions there the following morning at 10 a.m.

First acclaimed “the Lindbergh of Russia” for his ability as an aviator and parachutist, Herman was later imprisoned in a
labor camp, where he stayed alive eating rats and slugs. After his release, he was exiled to Siberia for a
year, met his wife, and fathered two daughters. After petitioning the government repeatedly, Herman and his family were allowed to
emigrate to the United States and now live in suburban Detroit, Michigan. Herman wrote a book, Coming Out of the
Ice, about his experiences. William F. Buckley, Jr., said of it, “Herman's tale is awful, and heartening—awful that anyone should
endure it, heartening that he did and endured.”

Look Homeward, Angel: A Review
The young actors in Davidson College's production of the play Look Homeward, Angel add a definite strength to the overall
interpretation. They effectively portray the unfortunate circumstances surrounding the Gant family in Ketti Frings’ play based on the novel by
Thomas Wolfe. This family stems from an overprotective, money-hungry, insecure mother, Eliza, and an often drunk, discontented father, W.O. The
children suffer because of their upbringing. The daughter is quiet and submissive, trapped into the mold of her mother. A
son, Ben, realizes the qualities of his parents. Finally, the youngest child, Eugene, realizes, through Ben’s death, that his family
is keeping him from being true to himself and pushing him toward being a nobody like his brother.

Pat Donley, playing Eugene Gant, is approximately the same age as the protagonist, and Laurie Campbell is only a few
years younger than her character, Laura. As for W.O. and Eliza, the fact that they are played by college students
(James Baskin and Sheri Gravett) allows them to interpret their characters from the children’s point of view. This type of
interpretation is, perhaps, better than were the characters to be played by someone older.

The play, for the most part, takes place at Dixieland, Eliza’s boarding house. Dr. Joseph Gardner, technical director, creates a
very striking set for Dixieland. A loose frame of the house stands on stage. The presence of the walls, though
physically non-existent, is distinctly felt. The play starts somewhat slowly but the pace steadily builds. And by the third act,
the actors and the audience are charged with intense emotion. The play is complete with sound effects of the nearby
train, which brings in boarders. Also on stage is a majestic, authentic-looking angel which seems to represent the self, the
goal.
