2—The Davidsonian—October 10, 1980

The Women’s Center occupies the old Kimmel house.

New Women’s Center seeks serious discussion of women’s issues

By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Correspondent

Davidson’s new Women’s Center has drafted a tentative statement of purpose to inform the campus of its existence and its
intentions.

The Women’s Center, located in the house between the President’s Home and Martin Manor, gives women a place to discuss
“issues which directly affect” them, according to the statement of purpose.

Senior Karen Hester, co-chairperson of the Davidson branch of the National Organization for Women, said the Center also “wants a
lot of speakers and programs and discussions that men would feel comfortable coming to so they could be sensitized to
women’s issues.” Such programs might include topics such as abortion, ERA, politics, and career-family-marriage problems, all of which directly or
indirectly involve men,” Hester said.

Last spring several members of the Council on Campus and Religious Life complained about the establishment of the Center. They
felt the house should have been set aside for men.

Housing Director Bill Bolding, however, said there was a “lack of choice and diversity for women’s housing” last spring, but
there were three apartments and one perimeter house reserved exclusively for men.

After he designated a house to be the Women’s Center, Bolding said he recognized a “great need” at Davidson for
an organization to encourage women to explore their roles and potential. He stressed that the Women’s Center is “not designed
to be a feminist organization” but is to “focus on the strengths of women.”

Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross said that when women first entered Davidson, their primary goal was to show they
could compete with the men. Now that they have accomplished this, “Women aren’t hesitant to say ‘we are different.’” The
Center can be a place for them to articulate these differences, Ross said.

Bolding said it would be a “great help if men would be involved” in the Women’s Center. “Probably people who
need education most on strengths of women is men,” he said.

The governing structure of the Center is largely undefined as yet. Sharp, Ross, and Bolding will probably appoint a Women’s
Center Board of six students and two faculty or staff members to run the Center this year, and future Boards
would be chosen through interviews conducted by outgoing Boards, Hester said.

Hester emphasized that the Center is open to “college women.” The organization will be broadly based so that “any woman
would feel comfortable going into the Center,” she said. Both Hester and Center Program Director Sally Sharp emphasized the importance
of a good first year for the Center. “The College is beginning to recognize the special needs of women on
campus and they’re making important, concrete changes... (but) it’s crucial to make this year work. We’ve got to show we’re
serious about this,” Hester said.

Funds for the Center will not come from any particular department budget. Sharp said, “It’s hard to tell how much
we’ll need,” since no specific programs have been set. Sharp hopes the Center will sponsor some joint programs with Union
committees.

There will be a reception at the Center honoring the new women faculty members this Sunday, Oct. 5, from 4
to 6 p.m. “The reception (is) to get things off the ground,” Sharp said. She urged all College women to
attend.

SGA Election Results

The winners of this week’s SGA elections were:
—Freshman Class Senators: George Thompson, President; Chip Lyerly, Leon Mason
—Belk Dorm Upperclass Senator: Barry Mack
—Belk Dorm Freshman Senators: Ken Howarth, Lentz Ivey
—Cannon Dorm Senator: Sally Neal
—Duke Dorm Senator: Steve Lowe
—Little Dorm Senator: Danny Waddill
—Richardson Dorm Senator: Julie Cheek
—Sentelle Dorm Senator: Gray Hampton
—Watts Dorm Senator: Chip Hoover
—Off-campus senators: Debby Carlton, Dave Roberts

Besides the above, the members of the SGA Senate are:
—Ron Davis, L.D. Simmons, Kevin Pressley, Thomas Bates, Andy Brown, Sherburne Laughlin, Chip Hurley, and Tim Johnston.

SGA Officers are:
—President: Dave Waddill
—Vice-President: Stuart Dorsett
—Parliamentarian: Ray Craven
—Chancellors: Ken Krieg and Elizabeth McMillan

KINCAID

INTERESTED?

ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING OF ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13
10:00 a.m.

MORRISON ROOM

Paid for by Kincaid for Congress Committee.
