The Best Way To Gain Stability ~ The $40 Penalty | Bill Wilson On Behalf Of The PCC

The October 17 issue of The Davidsonian contained a column that criticized the Patterson Court Council (PCC) decision to levy
a $40 fine on members of eating houses and fraternities who terminate membership during the academic year. This decision is
directly related to the more important issue of the economic stability and long-term viability of the Patterson Court system. We,
the members of the Patterson Court Council, realize this issue requires careful consideration, and we agree with the authors of
the editorial that PCC “needs to hear ideas and be willing to discuss them in open meetings among Court members.”
However, we feel these ideas must be objective and based on factual evidence, and thus we wish to respond to
several points raised in the article that are invalid and misleading.

First, we wish to define the status and function of the PCC. The PCC is composed of the presidents and
treasurers of the eating houses and fraternities on Patterson Court. These officers are elected by their houses each spring; thus,
the composition of the PCC changes annually. The College mandates that the PCC formulate policy and set guidelines concerning activities
for the Court. That the PCC consists solely of representatives elected by each house ensures that the interests of the
house members are reflected in the collective decisions made by the PCC acting in accordance with its own best judgment.

We feel several points raised in the editorial deserve close scrutiny. First, the authors allege that “no one at our
houses had ever seen the official statements concerning the purpose and implementation of the $40 penalty system.” The “official statement”
of the system is the statement members must sign confirming their intention to retain membership for the academic year. Members
are urged to be familiar with the statement before signing. The April 20, 1979 issue of The Davidsonian also contained
a front-page article outlining the purpose of the system when it was initially proposed and passed by the PCC. More
importantly, house officers were to act in their capacity as PCC representatives and explain the intent of the system when
distributing the statements to their house.

Second, the column alleges that “the PCC and the eating houses and fraternities have not adhered to the system...” At
the first 1980 PCC meeting, the original recommendation of the Council on Campus and Religious Life was read and the
problems and merits of the current penalty system were candidly discussed. The present form of the system was subsequently approved
by a unanimous vote of those members present. The adherence of the PCC and the houses to the system has
thus been total; the statements have been distributed and are being signed and returned, and the PCC has pledged through
its unanimous support of the system to uphold it in intent and practice.

The column also mentions five goals which the PCC hoped to attain with the implementation of the system. We feel
these goals are aptly stated and accurate, but we disagree with statements elsewhere in the column which imply that the
achievement of these goals is incompatible with the system. At one point, the authors contend that concern over the economic
stability of the Court is “a little silly” given the existence of sizable waiting lists at some houses. We must
point out, however, that large waiting lists have been reduced to nothing in the space of several days, and this
threat would continue to exist in the absence of a workable penalty system. Such economic vulnerability would even be more
acutely felt by those houses with small or nonexistent waiting lists, and the size of waiting lists throughout the Court
will undoubtedly be reduced when the Commons and the two new houses open. Gauging the economic health of a house
by the size of its waiting list is also dubious. Since waiting lists usually consist of members of a single
class, their extensive use to fill vacant spots may jeopardize the distribution of future classes in the Court system.

The article also implies that the system is inconsistent with regard to the various houses of the Court. It states
that “anyone not wishing to sign the contract could wait until the following year and join a house that was
not full.” This statement is patently false. Anyone wishing to eat at any house must sign a statement confirming his
intention to remain at that house for the entire year. Whether a house is full, or the size of its
waiting list, is irrelevant.

The authors also propose several alternatives to the present system. They perceive correctly that abolition of the system will solve
nothing and only heighten the economic uncertainty facing each house. “Alternatively,” they say, “the PCC could direct the responsibility for
action back to each individual house. They...[the PCC] could still play a role in assisting the houses by identifying common
problems and by serving as a vehicle for discussion among them.” This statement, in fact, accurately portrays the penalty system
as it now exists. The houses are responsible for action—i.e., monitoring their membership rolls and assessing the fines. Moreover, the
officers of each house are responsible for collecting any fines, and the money received can be used by the house
as it sees fit. The PCC intervenes only when a house member contests a fine and can demonstrate exceptional circumstances
which merit consideration. The PCC may then decide whether the fine is appropriate, but the house is still responsible for
collecting the fine if it is upheld by the PCC. The PCC cannot and does not levy any fines, collect
any fines, or receive any money under the system.

Finally, the column suggests that more stability would result from the adoption of what is termed “a supply and demand
system.” Such a proposal reveals a severe misunderstanding of the economic foundations of the Court. The system is designed to
provide food and social activities at cost to a specified number of people, and board bills thus represent the cost
of these factors given the number of members in a house. Determining board bills on a “supply and demand” basis
would result in gross budget deficits in some houses, which would ultimately result in their bankruptcy, and excessive surpluses in
others, which would represent an irresponsible waste of members’ money. Moreover, the analogy of Patterson Court functioning as a competitive
market is fallacious because each house is unique and offers different attractions to each member. Thus, students do not select
houses on the basis of the price of membership, and one must doubt whether the difference of a few dollars
in board bills will induce students to leave one house for another. The authors do raise a valid point when
they suggest that members might “be encouraged to plan on a longer term.

Reagan’s Words Disturbing — Robert Bowie

Do Presidential platforms make any difference? Ronald Reagan tore up his campaign promises as governor of California; Jimmy Carter’s four
years in office failed to bring Godly rule to earth as pledged. How can voters make a rational choice? For
all its insincerity, political rhetoric helps indicate what kind of measures a candidate will consider. Reagan’s views can only be
known through what he says. His words deserve careful scrutiny. In speech after speech, Reagan emerges as an extreme conservative
who refuses to compromise with the liberals and moderates that form the traditional mainstream of American politics. A list of
Reagan proposals unveils a mind that thinks in a direction far to the right of center:

1. Reagan wanted to use anti-trust legislation against unions and eliminate the minimum wage in an effort to increase employment.
Although he retreated from this view after a counter-offensive from the Carter camp, the former Screen Actors Guild President had
already demonstrated he was no friend of labor.

2. His plan to scrap the Salt II treaty, escalate the arms race in hopes of quickly outrunning the Russians,
and occasionally use American military force to solve diplomatic problems all point to a more belligerent and hard-line foreign policy.
I doubt that Reagan intends to get the United States into war, but people who play with guns often find
that they go off.

3. His support of prayer in the schools and opposition to homosexual rights, pornography, and abortion spell out a state
more moralistic and less free than today. Reagan himself lacks power over these constitutional questions, but many aged Supreme Court
justices could be replaced with Bible-waving Republicans in the next four years. Reagan’s opposition to the ERA shocks many women
and shows how easily this candidate bends to please conservative special interest groups.

4. In energy, Reagan wants to abolish the 55 m.p.h. speed limit and unleash the large oil companies on the
public. He dogmatically waves the banner of corporate capitalism at every opportunity. His ludicrous energy policy, unlikely to be passed
by any Congress, shows a naive trust in free enterprise which could be translated into a whole host of policies
across the board.

Three proposals in particular point to the need to interpret Reagan’s promises and not simply take them at face value.
Reagan claims that he will cut taxes, balance the federal budget, and massively increase defense spending without cutting any needed
government programs. He promises to do three contradictory things at once in the name of political popularity. As governor of
California, Reagan increased taxes over the course of time and I suspect President Reagan would do the same thing. Increasing
defense requires no miracle, however, and I suppose this mortal Reagan will throw lots of dollars into such programs as
the MX missile and assorted other boondoggles over the next four years.

All in all, Reagan offers not so much a blueprint for America’s future as a map of popular conservative myths.
Capitalism, God, and the monster of world Communism inhabit Reagan’s universe, and his beliefs in these legends from the 1950s
should guide his decisions over the next four years.

Robert Bowie is a senior English major.
