8—The Davidsonian—March 21, 1980

Mike Heinig reduces the starting rotation by one.

Tennis waits for improvement after losses

By RICK JOHNSTON
Staff Writer

Unknown to many, the tennis team has been the most successful athletic team at Davidson in recent years. In the past decade, it has compiled a record of 181 wins and 61 losses, twice has won the Southern Conference Championship, and three times has been undefeated in conference play.

With the best record of all Davidson sports in the 70’s, the tennis team may possess the most difficult schedule as well. Schools from all over the eastern United States appear on the schedule, including those of the ACC, SEC, and Big Ten. A few teams ranked among the top twenty in the nation are always included in the tennis team’s schedule.

Two former Davidson adversaries have enjoyed success in the professional ranks. Keith Richardson, formerly of Appalachian State, advanced to the third round of the U.S. Open this past September, while John Sadri of N.C. State has recently defeated two of the world’s best players—Stan Smith and Vitas Gerulaitis.

Harry Griffith and Jay Gepfert lead this year’s squad, alternating at the number one position. They are outstanding singles players in their own right, but together they are the doubles team to beat in the Southern Conference.

At the number three and four spots are Nevins Todd and Rick Johnston. These two players have had the rare privilege of being invited to the National Junior Championships, where 128 of the best young players in the country compete.

Jeff Lyle and Nick Petrou, both highly ranked regional players, fill out the starting lineup at the number five and six slots. Bill Bennett is often substituted into the lineup, while Paul Griffith, Jim Haynes, Alan Lasenby, and Jeff Wall are also expected to see much action. Victor Taylor, the team’s top freshman, is out for much of the season with a knee injury and will be sorely missed.

Coach Jeff Frank (133-47) expects Davidson to be a strong contender for the Southern Conference crown. This year any one of five teams could win the championship, and no one team is favored.

The Cats’ current record is 2-4, which is expected to improve. Losses have been to Alabama, Wake Forest, UNC, and N.C. State, who are among the top teams in the country. Victories have been over Rochester and Amherst, but the real test will be the conference matches which will begin in a few weeks.

The next match will be against Ohio University on the Davidson courts. Everyone is invited to cheer for the Cats and to observe some of the finest tennis in this area.

Dead dog art in Tennessee
Several furry little animals dead

(CPS) A University of Tennessee policeman, making his rounds just past midnight, noticed an awfully curious smell coming from the university’s Art Center last week. Sure enough, upon investigation he found an unusual exhibit: a dead dog in the lobby encircled by a careful display of black beans and rice. Nearby was a similarly artful display of a dead skunk.

Art Department Chairman Donald Kurka later told the UT Daily Beacon the animals “were arranged like a display. The main problem was the smell.”

The smell was so bad that, despite the efforts of a fumigation team, classes had to be moved out of the building for a day.

“I assume it was someone’s idea of art,” Kurka told College Press Service. “It’s not mine, though.”

Precision Hair Cuts
Perms
Blow-Drying

The Tonsure

BARBER STYLING 992-1933

featuring:

Razor Cuts
Coloring
Beard Design

Main St., Cornelius (across from Western Auto)

$499 5533

Roundtrip from Roundtrip
New York from Chicago
to Luxembourg to Luxembourg

No restrictions

Confirmed reservations • free wine with dinner, cognac after • no restrictions on stays to 1 yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase tickets in the U.S.

See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN
Icelandair P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.
Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area.
Please send me: ( ) An Icelandair flight timetable.
( ) Your European Vacations brochure.

Name
Address
City
State Zip

Just Arrived:

BIRDWELL
swim shorts

Downtown Mooresville