If you don’t mind washing your own dishes

February 8, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Eating Independently: Alternatives to overcrowding

By MELISSA MCKEITHEN
Staff Writer

In a few weeks, the members of the freshman class will submit their eating house preferences for the upcoming year.
But this year’s freshman class is larger than in the past, and predictions are that approximately one-hundred to two-hundred freshmen
will not get into an eating house. As a result, these freshmen will be faced with a new challenge as
sophomores—eating independently.

There are, of course, certain options readily available to those who do not end up on Patterson Court. Some may
choose to continue eating at Richards and Bailey, the two Slater-serviced houses, while others may opt to prepare their own
meals. Fourth floor Belk has a kitchen, as does Cannon, and one can always purchase a toaster oven and an
electric frying pan. In addition, the off-campus student houses have kitchens, opening up another possibility to upperclassmen. As freshmen face
the possibility of self-inflicted ptomaine, some upperclassman opinions may prove helpful in selecting a course of action.

Margaret Bumgardner cooks up a storm in Martin Manor. (Trey Thies)

SMITH'S FLOWERS
Valentine Flowers for your Sweetheart

302 SMITH CIRCLE 892-8856
CORNELIUS

John Teague is a sophomore who was unable to self-select last year. He lives on fourth Belk but chose to
continue eating at Richards and Bailey because he does not have access to a refrigerator. As far as the Slater
service is concerned, however, he feels that the food has improved since last year. Teague does not plan to continue
eating independently. He is on a waiting list for Fannie and Mabel’s and will eat there next year.

In contrast, other upperclassmen have chosen to avoid Slater and cook on their own. One such student is Jeannie Newman,
a senior living at Grey House. She and eight others living there eat independently. Each person fixes her own meals
in the house kitchen, some actually cooking and others staying more with quick foods such as yogurt. Newman ate on
Patterson Court her sophomore year, then after spending her junior year abroad decided to become independent. She does not regret
the decision because she is a vegetarian and feels that it is virtually impossible to continue that practice at an
eating house.

In addition, she is eating at a cost of two to ten dollars per week (considerably less than that of
an eating house) and she enjoys being able to eat at her convenience rather than at a set hour. Having
guests over for meals and experimenting with new recipes also make independent eating enjoyable for her. Seniors John Mottice, Scott
Goodwin, Margaret Bumgardner, Ann Tutwiler, and David Litaker have formed their own mini eating club. They cook at Cannon three
nights a week and at Martin Manor two nights a week. Mottice, like Newman, noted the fact that it is
cheaper to eat independently and pointed out the advantage of being able to choose what one eats. Eating independently is
also a good alternative for those who are dissatisfied (for whatever reasons) with the eating houses.

On the negative side, one misses out on the social activities of the eating houses and the opportunity they present
for meeting others. There are also the problems of having to shop and prepare every meal, both of which can
be time-consuming.

Some students are forced into eating independently, but more have deliberately chosen to prepare their own meals. Eating on Patterson
Court is not crucial to survival at Davidson; the various alternatives offered under the heading of “Independent Eating” may appeal
more than those much-coveted spaces on the court.

Weezie Mann shows off part of the Christian Library she helped found.

Christian library provides variety

By SUSAN WOODIE
Staff Correspondent

There is a new library at Davidson College and it’s well worth checking out. The Christian library, located in the
back choir loft of Lingle Chapel, is the brainchild of junior Weezie Mann who is responsible for setting up and
maintaining it.

Mann said the purpose of the library is to provide first, a variety of resources to aid in the pursuit
of and growth in a Christian life; second, a source for Bible study ideas; and third, a place and opportunity
for “quiet time.”

The decor of the library is in keeping with its tone. Soft lighting, a few chairs, and several hanging plants
provide a comfortable atmosphere in which to browse. And the library is open 24 hours a day, making it a
convenient “drop-in” place.

Available in the library are books, files, pamphlets, and cassette tapes. The books are divided into such categories as Tough
Questions; Study Guides/Meditational; Love, Sex, and Marriage (not necessarily in that order); and Especially for Women, to name a few.
Some have rather eye-catching titles like “Help! I’m in College!” and “Freedom from Fat”—a Christian approach to weight loss!

In the cassette tape collection, there is a series on Personalizing Theology, and a series of lectures by Josh McDowell,
among others. The file boxes contain a wealth of information on missions and Christian projects (in the U.S. and abroad),
including addresses for more information. The files also contain current information on various Christian organizations and agencies, in the form
of periodicals and newsletters. There are pamphlets addressing various aspects of the Christian life and life in general, and a
bulletin board for the same purpose.

All the materials in the library have been donated, loaned, or solicited by students. Books, files, and cassettes may be
checked out for one week at a time, by simply filling out a card available at the library desk. According
to Mann, the library is not “simply a DCF function; it is open to the whole campus.”
