TH DAVIDSONIAN Magna Vis Veritatis Volume LXIX, Number 21 Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Focus
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Small town isolation—homogeneity—cliquishness—academic pressure—the ratio. So goes the familiar litany of student complaints about the social atmosphere at Davidson. Davidson’s size and atmosphere may have a more severe effect, however, on the social lives of the faculty, especially the very small group of young, single professors.

“Davidson is a wonderful town to be married and raise kids in,” History Professor Peter Krentz said. “If you live here, you have to settle down into permanent life.” The social atmosphere was instrumental in Mathematics Professor Kay Smith’s decision to leave Davidson for St. Olaf’s College in Minnesota at the end of this year. Smith said both professional and personal factors prompted her to leave. Professionally, she prefers St. Olaf’s because it is larger, has a “nationally known mathematics department,” and provides greater opportunities for upper-level teaching and scholarly work. Personally, she wants a change from Davidson's “lack of a community of young single people.”

Social Contacts Limited
Friendships, social life, and interactions are found among the faculty and staff. “Anything I’ve done this year is the result of the efforts of the faculty,” Professor Melinda said. The main avenue for meeting people in the town, according to Smith, is the Presbyterian Church. Churches provide cultural benefits, but no opportunities for social life. (See Social Life, page 11)

Construction proceeding
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Groundbreaking for the new Dining Commons will probably occur this week, according to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze. “We're off and running,” Meetze said. Contractors L.P. Cox Construction Company have already begun surveying the construction site. A temporary gravel walk is being placed in front of Richards and Bailey houses to provide entry while the construction area is fenced in.

Warm weather brought out the dogs and the dogwoods.

Room lottery this weekend
By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

The housing lottery moves into full swing next week, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. Lottery numbers will be drawn this week on Thursday and Friday. A list of perimeter housing and single room occupants will be posted on Monday, April 14th. Students who were forced off campus or into lounges this year will select their rooms by lottery number on Monday, also.

Seniors select rooms Tuesday, sophomores select Wednesday, and juniors select Thursday. The selections will take place in Belk Dorm lobby at 6:30 each night. A list of available rooms will be posted in the lobby before selections. Bolding has made a new off-campus house available to women for next year. The women’s honor center is open to any upperclass women concerned with women's issues who have leadership abilities. Final details of the house’s operation have not been made yet, but Bolding said that probably six or seven women will be chosen. The women’s honor center will be located next to the President's house, in the house vacated by the Kimmels. Bolding added that there are still rooms available on the international halls.

(Stephen Ennis)

Students support Anderson
Jimmy Carter and John Anderson are the leading choices for President among Davidson students and faculty, according to a Davidsonian poll. Anderson was the popular candidate among students. Thirty of 73 students responding to the poll (41%) said they supported Anderson, compared to 22 (30%) for Carter, 7 (10%) for George Bush, 4 (7%) for Ronald Reagan, and one each for Kennedy, Baker, Ford, and Brown. Six students expressed no opinion.

Almost half (12 of 25 polled) of responding faculty members said they favored Carter. Five (20%) supported Anderson, one supported Brown and one Kennedy. The remaining professors were undecided. Thirty-six percent of the students polled said they were Democrats, 32% Republicans, and 32% independents. Twenty-one (84%) of the professors were Democrats. Only one was a Republican, and three were independents. Since among both students and professors there were more Anderson supporters than Republicans, the poll reflected Anderson’s ability to attract Democratic cross-over support.

(See Poll, page 2)

News AnalysisAn access road for Richards and Bailey has been formed by widening the path across Patterson Court. Because of the construction, students may no longer park in front of the freshman eating houses. Meetze said there is adequate parking available around the Court to accommodate students. “I don’t think it will present any problems,” he said. While negotiations have delayed the start of construction, the building will be ready by September 1981, according to Meetze. “I haven’t given up on any of the schedules,” he added. Also scheduled for completion in September 1981 are the two new dorms to be built behind Patterson Court across from SAE and ATO. Meetze said the college is now negotiating with a prospective contractor, Laxton Construction Company. “I hope to start surveying (for the dorms) within two weeks,” Meetze said.

Problems in Carnegie lead to complaints
By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

Rats, unanswered complaints, flooding, and a threatened lawsuit have punctuated life in the Basement of Carnegie Guest House this year. In Basement Carnegie, said that rats have been a continuing problem. Rats have been found in the kitchen and bathroom, and the traps set to catch them have been ineffective. Worse than the rats, according to Smith and other residents, is the lack of proper drainage in the basement. Flooding has resulted twice from stopped-up toilets and showers. Senior Aida Doss said her room was flooded with two inches of water, which destroyed her carpet. The College has not yet responded to her damage claim, made winter term. (See Carnegie, page 2)

Honor Council jury selection proposals debated
By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

Increased student awareness of Honor Council proceedings is certainly needed, according to Dean of Students Will Terry. The Honor Council is a student-elected 18-member body designated to “hear and determine originally all charges of violation presented to it,” as articulated in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. A candidate in the recent SGA election suggested more students get involved. The suggestion, which according to Dean Terry is not a new one, was that Honor Council members be randomly chosen each time a case is held. This has “some validity,” Terry said. On the other hand, a Council with randomly chosen members would tend to create an “adversary system,” making the hearings more like a trial, Terry said. “We’re not lawyers, and the students certainly aren’t.” Terry said he is “reluctant” to see a system such as this emerge. By maintaining a fairly static Council, the system is necessarily more “consistent,” Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross said. Terry noted that a static council, as we now have, allows separate cases to be treated similarly. Student X ideally gets the same treatment as Student Y. A randomly chosen council would “not be very feasible,” Honor Council chairman Hope McArn said. Experience is valuable to the council members, McArn said. Randomly chosen members would not be familiar with procedure and any type of orientation would be too time-consuming, McArn added. A randomly chosen council would probably mean a greater responsibility for the chairman, Terry said. The chairman would be more like a “judge.” “I’m not saying whether this would be good or bad,” Terry said. The “confidentiality” of cases is sometimes very important to those students involved, Ross said. If the Council were to be randomly selected each time a case was heard, the chance that such confidentiality might be breached would be greatly increased. Although no major changes have been made in the Council’s structure or procedure, various minor improvements are constantly being made, Terry said. One such example is a retreat like the one held last year. More meetings and retreats are planned for the future, Terry said. In the “heat of the situation,” Terry said. These meetings have facilitated a “greater understanding” among members, Terry said, and this has been the best improvement so far. Terry also mentioned the minimum sanction agreement as one improvement (See Honor Council, page 11).