8—The Davidsanian—September 26, 1980

Sports

Cross country men lose, women win

By BUCK BRADBERRY
Staff Writer

The 1980 Davidson cross-country team, under coach Sterling Martin, worked out with optimism this week despite a disappointing 15-49 loss
to a strong Duke team over the weekend.

Randy McManus and John Davis finished one and two among the Wildcats and took 7th and 10th places in the
meet, which was run Saturday morning on Davidson's tough home course.

Finishing third among his teammates and 13th overall, promising freshman Frank Ivie sauntered past the finish line a mere four
seconds ahead of Davidson's 4th man, senior. The women runners, anchored by Alabaman Tamara Foreman and sophomore Marian Hill, under-pointed
Duke's “club” cross-country women in a 23-36 win. With Carrie Ninn, Merris Hollingsworth, and Jane Thompson also showing well, the
team raised its record to 1-2. The Cats can surpass the .500 mark this Saturday as the women take on
Georgia St. and Wake Forest in Charlotte.

The men’s team, now 2-1, feels confident about its chances for victory when it encounters Georgia St., Lynchburg, UNCC, and
Campbell on Saturday in Charlotte. Jack Smith, John Rees, and Jeff Morrow, who took respective 16th, 17th, and 19th places
against Duke, are upperclassmen whose times will improve. Freshmen David Barnes and Jim Trotter, along with Danny Armistead and the
rest of the resolute gang, provide Coach Martin with ample assurance of a worthy showing on Saturday.

Hockey nets 5 shutouts

By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

The lady Cats had an impressive day here against UNC-G, smashing them 10-0 in the scrimmage game. Cathy Inabnet drove
5 goals home, followed by Lisa Bailyn-tine with 3. Sally Craig and Carol Heppner brought the total to 10.

Last weekend the team traveled to Catawba to beat High Point, Wake Forest, Catawba, and Duke with scores of 1-0.
The only loss was 1-0 to Pfeiffer.

The season officially opened Sept. 25, with a defeat by Pfeiffer. Sally Craig scored the Cats' goal. “We dominated the
game,” said Coach Mayes. “With 16 corners by Davidson and only 6 by Pfeiffer, our problem was they just made
them count.”

The next game is Saturday at Appalachian. The first home game is Oct. 1 against Wake.

Atkinson and Piercy experience 2 kinds of pain

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Instead of worrying about getting first downs or setting new school records, two outstanding Davidson offensive performers would be happy
just to get back in uniform.

Injured stars Alvin Atkinson and Gifford Piercy say their main objectives now are to maintain physical conditioning and to bolster
team morale.

Atkinson, an All-American candidate at halfback, injured his knee on September 13 during the game against Springfield. He underwent arthroscope
surgery on September 16 to remove a torn cartilage. Doctors at Richmond Community Hospital also found that Atkinson sustained damage
to ligaments and the knee capsule.

Head Athletic Trainer Tom Couch said, “Alvin’s surgery went real well. Now, we (the training staff) will help him keep
in shape, but it will really be up to him to decide when he is ready to go back on
the field.”

Piercy, wide receiver for the Wildcats, sprained his foot during a pileup in the Lafayette game last Saturday. He is
undergoing ice treatments and elevation of his foot to reduce the swelling of the bruises.

Both players said that they are working hard to overcome their injuries in order to play against Bucknell. However, both
described the complications of sitting out to be harder to overcome than the physical injuries.

Atkinson said, “This is my first injury, so it is really strange. I haven’t been able to settle into a
daily routine. It (the injury) has thrown everything off track, including everything that doesn’t have anything to do with football.”

Piercy said, “There are two kinds of pain that come with sitting out, the physical kind and the kind that
comes from feeling useless.”

Both players say they will continue to be very involved in the affairs of the team off the field.

Atkinson said, “I'm still a part of the team, even while I’m injured. I can still contribute a lot even
though I’m not on the field.” Piercy stated, “I’ll still work on team morale and be a cheerleader, even from
the sidelines.”

Trainer Tom Couch took the injuries in stride, saying, “Football is a rough game. That’s why it takes so many
guys to play it.”

HERB JAFFE

IMAGINE!

A SCIENTIFIC GENIUS NAMED H.G. WELLS STALKS A CRIMINAL GENIUS NAMED JACK THE RIPPER ACROSS TIME ITSELF IN AN INGENIOUS
THRILLER

HERB JAFFE

MALCOLM McDOWELL - DAVID WARNER MARY STEENBURGEN

“TIME AFTER TIME”

Music by MIKLOS ROZSA Screenplay by NICHOLAS MEYER Based on the novel by KARL ALEXANDER & STEVE HAYES Directed by
NICHOLAS MEYER

Friday night 8 & 10:30 in Love $1.50 or SEASON PASS

Hundreds of Selections. “Pop” to Classic. Stereo LP Albums. Cassettes. Box Sets.

The Student Store Davidson College Union

Sale Starts Friday Sept. 26
