Bets Did you know the con fliia tetagt catsier as small as the head of a pin? American Cancer Society (Continued from page 1) changes are to be expected in the negotiation process," Meetze said. He listed "reductions in landscaping, fewer walks, and the elimination of some retaining walls," as examples of changes that were made. Meetze said neither the size of the building nor its capacity were altered. Meetze said, "An awful lot of planning has gone into this building. Faculty, trustees, administration, and students have all been involved in considering all facets of our needs." The need for a dining facility arose over five years ago when the old facility was torn down to make room for the E. H. Little Library, Meetze said. "Now we're building with the future in mind," he said. "We can't anticipate exactly the changes that will occur in the activities and social patterns of students over the next twenty to twenty-five years, and with inflation running the way it is now, we know that paying costs will be high."

The Campus Forum (Continued from page 4) address the three issues raised in last week’s issue. The first issue concerns the so-called discrepancy in the SGA Presidential election results. I thought the facts were presented well in the front page Davidsonian news story. The election was run exactly like every election has been run since I’ve been here; the bottom line is that the spirit fostered by the Honor Code envelops our election procedures, as well as every other aspect of Davidson life. I won’t speculate about the motives of those who questioned the results and requested that we hold the elections again; however, if they don’t feel comfortable with the way things are at Davidson, that is their problem, not the SGA’s.

The second issue deals with my encounter with candidate Bowie in my room (squirreled up in the back of the KA house). Mr. Bowie's logic is quite appropriate here: if one enters the realm of politics, he'd better be able to stand the pressures involved. A candidate should be able to support every statement and claim he makes in his literature; if he can’t, he must answer for his inadequacies. Mr. Bowie had a bountiful opportunity to make his case. I hardly consider comments I make around my friends where I live and eat “public.” Indeed, it was Mr. Bowie and his supporters that made my opinion so well known around campus. Again, I won’t guess at the reasons behind Mr. Bowie’s supporters' enthusiastic publication of my opinion, but it is their business and responsibility and I am not particularly concerned (or uncomfortable) about the matter. So, this is my explanation. Perhaps some opinions will differ with mine; if so, I hope that those people are as comfortable with their opinions, explanations, and contributions as I am with mine.

John Jackson ‘80

Athletics impoverished the Editor— While reading the Davidson Catalog, I finally realized why I came to Davidson three and a half years ago. On page 28, the Catalog reads, "Keen competition, coupled with a realistic level for each sport sets the goal... Tennis, golf, and soccer teams have also won conference championships in recent years." Am I disappointed? NO! I love Davidson andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Davidson people... But I am a little upset that we continue to mislead talented athletes by telling them that Davidson is the place for them. For instance, we have some very advanced soccer players who have to arrange their own meets because the Cross Country coach, Norm Koller, is also being let go because he didn’t merit tenure. If you’re going to participate in track, don’t get your hopes up over the Davidson Relays—the college might not rehire 14-year veteran Sterling Martin. And if they do keep him, this efficient nit-picking son of a gun won't have his former title, while his duties will probably increase (diverting his efforts from the Relays). If you’re a golfer, forget it. You have to drive 50 miles round trip to practice at the "home course." Don’t forget to bring your own golf balls and gas money. What’s the use of luring good athletes here—they’ll usually leave after their sophomore year. Notable examples are Pete Legler (football), Scott Gilmore (golf), and Chris Dodds (basketball). And if they don’t want to leave, they are welcome to stay for four years of frustration—just ask John Gerdy. So let's be realistic; if we can’t afford to have one coach for each sport, let the athletes in on this fact of Davidson life. They should also be informed of our "shaky" status in the Southern Conference. And if these measures would hurt recruiting, which, of course, they would, then let’s put some money into these areas. If we can’t afford to with the present revenues, then raise the tuition by $100 or so (earmarked for athletics). Compromises are acceptable as long as the values are upheld. If they’re not, it’s not the athletic programs’ fault.

Michael Doran ‘80

Meetze said the Commons could accommodate 1600-1800 people. There are other ways to make our country stronger and more secure. A strong economic structure contributes to national security. Bettering the social conditions in our society would also contribute to national security. More equitable conditions in which everyone has an acceptable standard of living, decent job, and equal opportunities are important. Some of our most severe threats come from within our own society. We need to devote our efforts to building for people, instead of building for war. This effort would not only create a better and more secure society, but would also satisfy our conscience. The best way to serve our country and help create a better society is by contributing in these areas, and by refusing to participate in war.

Cartmill said, "As long as our men’s basketball team is in Division I, the faculty will participate." Athletics statements to the press are in separate houses because the conscience of our country and help create a better society is by contributing in these areas, and by refusing to participate in war.

Registrar Richard Burts said computer service has been "as good as it can be" since Data Processing Manager Kenneth Carmack, who developed Davidson's computer program, left in November 1978. "It has been a transition situation," he said. The new Director will head an organizational project this summer in which a number of balance of allocations and possible savings will be made.