THE DAVIDSONIAN Magna Vis Veritatis Volume LXIX, Number 19 Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Waddill takes SGA Presidency 478-304
Discrepancy of 234 — Just shy of majority in first vote: Waddill 482, Terry 270, Bowie 227

By WALTER LEE
Staff Correspondent

Dave Waddill was the victor in Wednesday’s runoff for the SGA Presidency. Waddill received 478 votes to Richard Terry’s 304.
The runoff was held because Waddill failed to reach a majority in Tuesday’s elections. He gained 482 votes, while Richard
Terry received 270 and Robert Bowie 227.

Waddill, a junior history major, based his campaign largely on student involvement in the SGA, citing the Trustee Contact Committee
and the Student Admissions Team as examples of a working student government. Waddill said he plans to work for more
student participation in Davidson’s Development Programs as well as in the Trustee letter writing campaign. He also wants to improve
job opportunities for students through increased internship programs and an improved corporate relationship for Davidson. The large number of people
running for office this year indicates a high level of student interest.

(See Waddill, page 2)

By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

A discrepancy of 234 ballots in yesterday’s SGA presidential election aroused in some students “serious doubts of the credibility of
the election (process),” said SGA President John Jackson. Jackson decided not to hold another election because he saw the election
process as “fair” and in no way different from any previous elections held here at Davidson.

The problem arose Tuesday evening when two supporters of Robert Bowie, Steve Austin and Harold Lloyd, asked that the ballot
total be compared with the names crossed out in the election directories. Their results found 745 crossed-out names in the
directories but 979 total ballots cast. Austin and Lloyd said they investigated the results because they had heard during the
day that Bowie had been running ahead of second place finisher Richard Terry.

(See SGA Election, page 2)

A News Analysis
Jobs, careers, up in the air

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

The entire Davidson athletic department is being quietly reorganized, and no one, not even the people directly affected, really knows
about it. There will be no Athletic Director next year, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann. Instead,
the department will be split in two and headed by an Intercollegiate Athletics Director and a Physical Education Director, both
responsible directly to the Vice President for Academic Affairs.

Present Athletic Director Tom Cartmill, who resigned two weeks ago, will become Physical Education Director, responsible for “all physical education
and intramural athletics,” said Zimmermann. Sterling Martin, who is now Director of Physical Education and Intramurals, will become head cross
country coach and direct lake campus operations. Zimmermann said the college is now looking for the new Intercollegiate Athletics Director.

“Cartmill didn’t want to continue as Director of Athletics. It’s a response to his wishes in the matter.” He added
that the changes will probably be reassessed when Cartmill retires.to a split between intercollegiate and intramural athletics which could decrease
efficiency in coordination of facilities. It is also distressing that Martin, who has worked in Davidson athletics for 14 years
and is in large part responsible for the present structure of the physical education program, (See Personnel, page 11).

Soccer, football clash over field
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Several soccer players claim that Assistant Football Coach Tom Miller ordered the club soccer team off a practice field Friday
in an “extremely condescending and rude manner.”

“I just asked some people to leave the football field,” Miller said, later adding, “very politely.”

Immediately after Miller told them to leave, “a bunch of isolated shouting matches started,” between soccer players and three assistant
football coaches, according to John Jackson, club soccer player. Jackson emphasized that neither Head Coach Ed Farrell nor any football
players were involved in the incident.

The soccer players had been playing on the field by the entrance to the cross-country course for about an hour
and a half Friday afternoon. The field is designated for football practice, according to Farrell. However, Intramural Director Sterling Martin
said he had given the soccer players permission to use the field, though the football team had “priority use.” (See
Club Soccer, page 2).

It is distressing that Cart-

Sophomore John Shaw rappels down as part of ROTC week. (See article, page 3).

A News Analysis

Livingston Taylor enthralled a packed house in the 900 Room last weekend. (Trey Thies)

Minor sports in a squeeze
By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

Minor sports budgets for next year will not be cut as part of the $85,000 athletic budget reduction, according to
Vice President for Academic Affairs, Price Zimmerman. However, inflation and already inadequate funding may cancel the significance of this decision
for many minor sports coaches.

Zimmerman said sports budgets will remain as they were this year. Cuts will be made in “administration and maintenance,” and
the “consolidation of personnel,” including a freeze on purchases of automobiles and office equipment, a new insurance policy which ends
duplication of existing family policies, a $5,000 cut in football recruiting, and “overlap” in coaching positions.

“No college of our size can afford one-sport coaches,” Zimmerman said. “Coaches will be told of any new responsibilities as
soon as possible.”

“I don’t anticipate any significant effect on minor sports,” Zimmerman said. “The present minor sports budgets are adequate.”

Even if money is taken from the sports budgets, inflation will render the athletic buying power less effective. Athletic Director
Tom Couch explained that equipment costs were up 22% in the last two years and travel costs have risen 15%
annually.

For those who feel present funding is already inadequate, the situation is dire. Interviews with coaches have revealed a “wait
and see” attitude, since specific figures for budget cuts have not been made public. Almost all of the coaches, however,
said there is no fat in their budgets and that a reduction in buying power will substantially hurt.
