2—The Davidsonian—October 24, 1980

EPC (Continued from page 1)

courses to fulfill the requirement. In Area II (Religion and Philosophy) students would have to pass one basic philosophy course and two religion courses, one of which must be “concerned primarily with the Christian faith.” Presently a student may take three religion courses. The committee report recommended the mandatory philosophy course in order that students be “introduced to systematic thinking about the nature of reality and human values.” The requirement of one Christian religion course, the report said, is in line with Davidson’s statement of purpose.

In Area III (Mathematics and Science) students would have to pass two courses, one of which must be in natural science. A course taken to demonstrate the mathematics competency would not count toward this requirement.

In Area IV (History and Social Science) students would have to pass three courses: a Western history survey course, a basic economics course, and a basic course in anthropology, political science, psychology, or sociology.

In the new Area V (Non-Western Studies) students would have to pass one course from a list of approved non-Western courses. This “acquaintance with the non-Western world,” the report stated, is “an essential part of a liberal education.” Possible examples of non-Western courses include Civilization of South Asia, Hinduism, Chinese Philosophy, and Chinese Politics. A non-Western course could also satisfy another distribution requirement.

Students must satisfy the competency and distribution requirements early, according to the report. By the end of the junior year students should have completed all but the fourth term of the language requirement and two courses of the distribution requirements. One advantage of students taking core courses early is that they “will be more likely to bring a common background of knowledge and experience to upper-level courses,” the report said.

EPC members described the proposal as a clarification of Davidson’s goals rather than a substantive policy change. “It really isn’t that radical,” French Department Chairperson Hallam Walker said. Center for Special Studies Dean Frank Bliss described the changes as “making a good thing better.”

“As I see the proposal,” Bliss said, “we have attempted to encourage a less specialized undergraduate education, to improve basic skills generally, to tilt a bit more toward requirements than toward electives, and to increase interdisciplinary and international awareness.”

“We think it’s a good plan,” Purcell said, “with one exception.” The exception is the addition of a fourth term to the language requirement, which Purcell and Medlin protested in a minority report.

In their report, the two student committee members argued that the first three terms of language instruction could be made more effective. The addition of a fourth term, they felt, would lower the quality of upper-level courses, discourage students from beginning a new language, reduce elective options, and place an undue strain on the language departments. The additional requirement “would hurt students really motivated with the language,” Medlin said. “The whole program needs to be looked at,” Purcell added. Medlin pointed out that the French Department has recently made some changes in the French 20 program, adding more emphasis on oral skills. Such changes “need to be done first,” she said. “Three terms should be sufficient,” Purcell concluded.

The other members of the EPC, however, were unanimously in favor of the addition of a mandatory fourth term. The United States, their report stated, “is no longer in a position to dictate to the world on its own terms.” “Three terms isn’t enough time to achieve the command of language which we want students to have,” Bliss said, “It takes time, not only good courses.” Walker pointed out that the fourth term competency course will not be identical to existing fourth term courses taken by majors. “We expect to create courses which would take into account the interests of people in other areas, such as economics, politics, and history,” Walker said, “We want this to be a means of showing people that their command of the language can be of use to them.”

While the committee’s report specifies that the fourth term course must be taken at Davidson, Zimmerman said it would “not be contrary to the spirit” of the proposal to allow exceptional students with strong foreign language literature backgrounds to pass out of the fourth term course. Kelton pointed out that Chapel Hill has recently instituted a two-year language requirement, although it previously had none. Davidson, too, had a two-year requirement prior to the introduction of the present term system and “Blue Sky curriculum” in the early 1960s.

The language requirement is “not a punitive measure,” Walker said, “Nobody is really a linguistic cripple.” The proposed change does, however, “put the onus on the language departments to do the job,” he added.

The increased number of students taking history, philosophy, and foreign languages will “clearly” necessitate “a look at the staffing situation,” Kelton said. Zimmerman emphasized that concerns about staffing should be secondary. “We want the faculty to consider these changes on their educational merits,” he said, “then we will proceed to arrange the staffing within reason. Staffing should be arranged to serve the program rather than the program arranged to serve staffing needs.” Kelton said he thought the proposals would require reallocation of faculty rather than hiring of new professors. For example, to cover increased student demand for philosophy, philosophy professors may have to teach exclusively within their department rather than in Humanities or the Center for Special Studies. “In and of themselves, the proposals will not require that we go above the present faculty limit of 100,” he said. Walker said that, in the long run, if the proposals are approved, “inevitably there will have to be some increase in the staffs of departments affected.”

“There may be some withdrawal of upperclass specialty courses,” Zimmerman said, since many of the students now taking these courses are non-majors satisfying anarea requirement which they could satisfy only with a basic course in the proposed curriculum. However, Zimmermann felt that even if courses are dropped the overall effect would be beneficial. “Upperclass courses are diluted in the present arrangement by the need to teach inexperienced underclassmen.”

In the event that it becomes necessary to drop a substantial number of upperclass courses, Bliss said, “we will have to consider hiring additional faculty members. This is important because the committee does not wish to weaken any department major in any way.”

The proposed requirements would be “helpful” to prospective students, Medlin said. While the “specificity of the language might frighten few, most would be grateful for such a well thought-out core curriculum,” especially since “a lot of students come not knowing what courses to take.”

The effect on enrollment of the new curriculum would be minimal, according to Purcell. “I’m not sure graduate requirements affect anyone’s decision to choose a school.” Zimmermann agreed that few prospective students are very attentive to academic regulations. The only feature that might affect prospective students would be the language requirement,” Zimmermann said, but no one knows what effect the present requirements have. He added that he hopes Chapel Hill’s new language requirement will cause secondary schools to place greater emphasis on foreign language instruction.

If the proposals are passed and the new regulations printed in the catalogue, Zimmermann said, there would probably be “some means of warning all prospective freshmen, including early decision students” about them. Zimmermann added that the catalogue does contain a disclaimer that “academic regulations are subject to change.”

Zimmermann said that, while the faculty will “almost certainly” not vote on the proposals at their November meeting, the new core curriculum, if it is approved, could be ready by the February deadline. Kelton pointed out that every new course designed to fulfill the new distribution requirements would also have to be approved by the faculty. “I anticipate a great deal of discussion,” Bliss said, “and some counterproposals.”

The proposed core curriculum would not lead to major changes in most students’ schedules, according to the committee. “It should not materially decrease the number of electives that an average student takes,” Zimmermann said. “Students are going to have to be more aware of requirements" if the proposal is approved, however, Purcell said. Students will have some voice in the outcome of discussions concerning the proposals, Medlin said. “The main way they will have input,” she said, “is by talking to the faculty.”

WDSR (Continued from page 1)

schedules so far. Odell said the station will broadcast from 7 a.m. to midnight during its first week of operation according to the number of students willing to disc jockey. If the station must reduce its hours, morning programming will be cut first, Odell said.

The station’s programming will be varied. Disc jockeys will be free to choose what to play within “vague guidelines,” Odell said. For instance, they will not be permitted to play loud acid rock in the early morning. Odell hopes WDSR will expand in the future. For instance, the station might buy a telephone monitoring system from WDAV. The system would enable announcers to broadcast from outside the station via telephone lines to the studio. With telephone monitoring, the station could cover sporting events taking place both on and off campus.

The station’s staff wants to expand the limited record library. They hope to buy high-quality used records at bargain prices, Odell said.

PIRG (Continued from page 1)

With several projects lined up for the coming year, Davidson PIRG hopes to rekindle student interest. One such project is a look into the practice of redlining, in which banks withhold loans to certain areas due to ethnic or economic make-up. PIRG is also planning an energy conservation survey of on- and off-campus housing and a forum dealing with toxic wastes to follow up an investigation into the dumping of those wastes in North Carolina.

Following up on a survey done in 1974, Davidson NC-PIRG and Duke NC-PIRG have been working on passing a bill which will provide refunds on cans and other currently non-refundable containers, Little said. Little remains confident that Davidson PIRG will encounter few difficulties in the next two years.

Couple donates Blue Ridge mountain retreat
By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

A wealthy couple from Banner Elk has given a house in the Blue Ridge mountains to the College. Situated on one and a half acres on the eastern continental divide, the house is approximately a two and a half hour drive from Davidson. It has 9,000 square feet and seven bedrooms. The house and property are valued at $300,000, according to Director of Communications John Slater.

Slater said the College would like to use the house as a retreat and conference center. For example, Bill Bolding and the resident advisors used the house for a retreat in early September. However, Slater said the College has not yet decided exactly what to do with the house. The house is completely unfurnished. Slater said they hope to attract donations of furniture, linens, and kitchen utensils from alumni.

Slater said the College would like to hire a couple as resident caretakers so the house would be available throughout the winter to various groups of students. It is still uncertain whether the College will accommodate outside groups because of the extensive furnishings and upkeep it would require. The College received the deed on October 8 from Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Schwebke.

College gets $350,000

An anonymous alumnus has presented the College with a gift of stock worth $350,000, according to Director of Special Resources Julius Melton. The stock was given in the form of a gift annuity agreement. In such an agreement, the contributor continues to receive income from the gift while he lives. In this case, the alumnus will receive approximately $20,000 annually in mostly tax-exempt income. At his death, the entire fund will go to Davidson.