Crunch of winter term, and weekends—Bonehead went to his whistle. Well, we have the solution and here it is—B&BB’s entertainment
guide to Greater Davidson:

Anchor Tavern—This little place has the best “ripple brunch” in town and is frequented by such luminaries as Uncle Chuck
Cornwell, the Geach, and the calypygous Cora Nelson. Great place to take the folks on parent’s weekend.

Rob Monteeth's Brass Rail—(the little room in the back of Watts) This joint gets off—more liquor is consumed here in
one week than was produced at the Anheuser-Busch Brewery in three months. The beer-tenders include Jam, Derek, Earl, and Pee
Wee. The Sociology Department at Davidson holds abuse among pre-dead janitors.

Weight Room—“What have you done today to keep Furman from scoring 63 points?” “Only those that urinate on other students
shall survive.” This establishment also serves as Joby’s all-night study room. A true hot spot and the only place at
Davidson where SAE’s hear anything besides beach music. Finally, this is where Davidson’s roller derby players and women’s shot putters
hang out...there are about 300 of them.

John Davis’ Room—Only hot spot where one can hear readings on Sartre, Mill, and Nietzsche in intimate encounter groups. The
reader, who shall remain nameless, will be distinguished by his jovial expression and coke bottle athletic glasses. This place is
better than the rare book room. Honest. Laps loves it.

DCF Small Groups—The good little people at Davidson College—benign, but superfluous. Fortunately, they remain small groups. This year there are.
Next year, there will be the starting of tiny groups, while (as a part of the 1987 Program) there will
eventually be infinitesimal groups. If you revel in pin-the-tail-on-the-horse’s ass, or ring-around-the-collar, join this bunch of heavenraisers.

900 Room—The heartbeat—where it’s at at Davidson College even if the PiKA’s don’t know the price of a pitcher. Seriously
though, the 900 Room is Fort Lauderdale—every night. It’s like Easters, 365 days a year. It’s like picking your face—24
hours a day. By the way, the 900 Room will have a St. Valentine’s Day Massacre tonight; and for the
sake of authenticity there will be live ammunition and the subsequent unmitigated mutilation of all ATO’s and SPE’s. This will
be followed by a fun-filled combination burial-breakfast in the Snack Bar from 12-2 am. Bring your own shovel and carving
knife. The word is that Ron Scott will be making a cameo appearance.

Sentelle Dorm—Probably the hottest place on campus last week. Inhabitants are addicted to zombies, but Kelvin, Hugo, and Elmo can
throw a great fire anytime they feel like it. When Yates makes a guest appearance here, it’s like reenacting D-Day.
Besides all of the above, this dorm broadened its scope and became a secondary outlet for the APO bookstore. Hock,
that’s in your face.

Since everybody has something to do now, we'd like to make an editorial comment. We don’t know about you all,
but we're tired of watching the dogs making bacon out in front of Chambers. Seriously, how can you think about
school when the damn animals are “feeling the earth move?” Furthermore, it’s making all of the sidewalks slippery and that
salt stuff won’t cut it. Butch used to keep his vassals under control, but now it’s like watching Deep Throat.
What can we do? The local watering holes won’t listen to reason. Even Rush Otey was ineffective. More on this
later.

In basketball this week, most of the good teams beat most of the bad teams most of the time. The
Breeze kept blowing and the Grits continue to impress. We Know We're Peripatetic stuck to its winning ways as Hill
kept his water running, but the Guns of Navarone were erased by women’s basketball Coach Palmer Muench. Bye Marv. However,
there was one game that never really occurred. The PiKAs really didn’t beat former kingpin Fido and the Rear Entries.
Strader didn’t score 25 blindfolded, and Rick Gergoudis didn’t jam one backwards. It just couldn’t have happened. Now, there’s only
one alternative—protest. Just remember Fido, he who dorks last dorks best.

Get me out of here, Percy. “Not sofast Eddie.” Hi Cam. Top Ten:
1. Cool Breeze
2. We Know We’re Peripatetic
3. Fido (2nd if you hadn’t protested)
4. True Grits
5. Corpus Whatever
6. Old Men (babies)
7. Bricklayers
8. Hurtin’ 4 Certain
9. Depart
10. Hounddog McClain and the Carolina Cougars

Sports Scripts

Wrestling
Davidson fell to the Furman Paladins this past Saturday in a close match, 30-28. Coach Bob Estock termed the match
a “disappointing loss” as the Wildcats won five of the seven weight classes that were wrestled but had to forfeit
three. For the Cats: James Young (118 lbs.) and Rob King (Heavyweight) won forfeits; Scott Smith (134 lbs.) and Tim
Brotherton (167 lbs.) pinned their opponents; Mike Garfinkel decisioned his wrestler. This weekend Davidson travels to Lexington, Va. to face
Washington and Lee on Friday and VMI and The Citadel on Saturday in what Coach Estock is calling a “real
test” for his wrestlers.
—DAVE DONALDSON

Track
Fine individual performances were turned in by Davidson trackmen this past weekend in Lynchburg. The indoor meet, hosted by Lynchburg
College, served as a tune-up for the upcoming Southern Conference championships. Individual results are as follows: Sophomore John Hoots turned
in a fine 4:27 clocking in the mile for second place and placed third at 1000 yards, Lance Sisco garnered
seconds in the high hurdles and high jump, Bart Landess was second at two miles, Terrazzo Wallace sprinted to third
place in the 60-yard dash, and Dick Jones finished fourth at 600 yards.
—VAN BECK

Rifle Team
The Davidson Rifle Team shot well this past Saturday in Lexington, splitting a three-way match against Virginia and host VMI.
The Cats shot 2095 against the Keydets' 2117 and UVa.’s 2081. John Parham once again paced the team with his
best performance of the year, 550. Rebbie Kirkendol shot 525, Pat Stuart 521, and George Hatfield with a 499 completed
the top four. George Webster led the rookie marksmen with 499, his highest score of the year. This match was
an encouraging one which should put the Cats on the right track as they prepare for the Western Carolina Tournament
to be held at Wofford this Saturday.
—GEORGE WEBSTER

Women’s Basketball
In a hard-fought battle last Friday night, Methodist College nipped the Wildcattes 65-64. Davidson held the lead for most of
the game. Then on Monday night, the Cattes were at home against Meredith College and the visitors were easily defeated,
71-33. The Cattes travel to Laurinburg tonight to take on St. Andrews. This is a must-win game for Davidson as
it will determine their seed in the tournament, which begins on February 19. Davidson’s last regular season game is Monday,
February 18, at 5 in Johnston Gym against Furman. Come support the Cattes in the final home appearance of graduating
seniors Anna Hutchinson, Sarah Womack, and Penny Keels.
—KIRBY OWEN

The Tonsure
BARBER STYLING
992-1933
featuring:
Precision Haircuts
Razor Cuts
Perms
Coloring
Blow-Drying
Beard Design
Main St., Cornelius (across from Western Auto)

Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won’t be unusual to make changes as
you go. And it’s entirely possible that your final career does not even exist today.

Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited to a desk and
typewriter. But when your first job is an Army 2LT, you’ll have real management experience. You'll be in charge. On
a specific job assignment, you could have 30 to 40 people working for you. And you could be responsible for
millions of dollars in equipment.

Learn what it takes to lead. Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of “take charge” experience civilian
employers seek. It’s a margin of difference in the increasingly competitive job market. Prepare to rise to the top in
your field. Make your first job as an Army Officer. If you have two years remaining in school, you can
begin ROTC this summer. You’ll be compensated financially; stimulated physically and mentally. To add experience to your degree contact CPT
Neil Touchet, ROTC Dept, Davidson College, Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170.
Army ROTC
