The Back Page

In Charlotte

Charlotte’s Spirit Square will get its season off to a start this week with an appearance by Joel Grey on
Wednesday, April 16. The internationally acclaimed Oscar-winning singer-dancer will perform with the Loonis McGlohon Trio, of recent Davidson fame. Then
on Friday, April 18, Odetta—the Johnson C. Smith Choir—will be in concert at Spirit Square. Both concerts are at 8:15
p.m. Tickets for Joel Grey are $15.00 (includes post-performance reception); tickets for Odetta are $6.00. For information call (704) 376-8883.

Carowinds

Carowinds is open every weekend now. Y'all come and ride the new Carolina Cyclone, shown above.

Rape-Prevention Seminar

There will be a seminar on Rape-Prevention and Self-Defense this Sunday, April 13. Sherry Pethel, a rape prevention officer of
the Charlotte Police Department, will speak on rape and self-defense, and there will be a feature film, Rape: A Preventive
Inquiry. The seminar will be held in the 900 Room at 7:30. For more information contact David.

ROTC Blood Drive

In keeping with the spirit of Langella (who will be drinking blood in Dracula Friday), the ROTC will be holding
a blood drive Thursday, April 17. The drive will take place in the Union from 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
All red-blooded Yanks, bluebloods, and ice-water-in-the-veins types are encouraged to come and “give a little bit.” According to co-coordinator Jorge
Silveira, the goal is to exceed Davidson’s previous record of 295 pints.

In the 900 Room

If you're not inclined to participate in the mass socializing usually associated with Spring Frolics, there will be alternative quality
entertainment in the 900 Room this weekend. There will be two separate acts appearing both Friday and Saturday nights: the
group Triangle and singer-songwriter George Ensle.

Triangle consists naturally enough of three members who have appeared separately and together throughout the Southeast. Patti Jones, who leads
with vocals, studied voice for three years in Iowa. Jack LeSueur, with guitar and vocals, studied and played many instruments
throughout public schools and colleges in North Carolina. David McKnight, on the violin/viola, studied the classical violin for a number
of years and played with orchestras through college. He earned fame while running for U.S. Senate by walking and fiddling
from Murphy to Manteo.

Triangle offers a wide selection of contemporary folk and country songs, popular, rock, and show music. Their repertoire includes music
by James Taylor, Neil Young, Paul Simon, Don McLean, and many others.

George Ensle, who hails from Texas, is also a quite talented and accomplished musician. He has received wide acclaim for
his storytelling, folksongs, and ballads, and has made numerous radio and television appearances.

Triangle and Ensle will both be on campus under the auspices of the Intimate Performances Committee.

Larry Mangum

The Larry Mangum Band will appear in the 900 Room at 9:30 and 11:00 this Friday and Saturday night. The
band plays a mixture of ballad-like and contemporary music.

Energy Fair

Alternative energy sources are the focus of an Energy Fair to be held on the lawn of the Student Union
from 1:00-5:00 p.m. this Friday afternoon.

HEAL, sponsored by Davidson's chapter of NC-PIRG, will feature a number of solar energy displays, including a room-heating device that
extends from a window. It uses the power of the sun to heat air passing through it by convection currents.
Another device displayed will be a solar food dehydrator which uses solar power to dry food such as sliced fruit
and vegetables.

Literature on alternative energy developments and conservation hints will be available, along with balloons, T-shirts, and free solar tea.

The fair represents an effort to attract more attention to the world energy problem and its possible solutions. Susan Marynowski,
Davidson-PIRG President, explained, “We'd like to see alternatives developed now instead of the more dangerous energy sources that the government
is supporting.” —JOHN KROTCHKO

Events on Campus

Friday, April 11

10:00 a.m. Ed Clark Gallery
6:00 Reception for Ed Clark 900 Room
8:00 and 10:30 Pop Film: Dracula Love

Sunday, April 13

7:30 Anti-rape Seminar 900 Room

Monday, April 14

9:00 Vesper Concert: Stanley Scheer, organist DCPC
10:00 Square Dance Love

Wednesday, April 16

10:00 Ian Breward Lecture Gallery
8:15 Student Organ Recital: Ed Nolan and Neal Biggers DCPC

Thursday, April 17

10:00 ROTC Blood Drive Union
7:30 Reception: Vonnie Hendrickson, Senior Art Exhibition

Sports

Friday, April 11

3:00 Men's Tennis: Furman Away

Saturday, April 12

9:00 Men's Tennis: UT-C Furman
11:30 Men's Track: Citadel Home
Women’s Track: Appalachian State and Wake Forest Home
1:00 Baseball: Citadel Home
Sailing: South Atlantic Inter-team Race Home
2:30 Men's Tennis: Marshall Furman

Monday, April 14

2:00 Men's Tennis: Guilford Home
Women’s Tennis: Queens Away
3:00 Baseball: Winthrop Home
Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away

Tuesday, April 15

2:00 Men's Tennis: Pfeiffer Away
2:00 Women’s Tennis: Appalachian State Home
3:00 Baseball: Wake Forest Home
Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away

Wednesday, April 16

2:00 Men's Tennis: South Carolina Away
3:30 Lacrosse Club: Elon Away
Golf: Jacksonville Invitational Away

Saturday, April 19

3:00 Baseball: Wofford Away
Women’s Tennis: State Tournament Away

Edited by Jeff Herrin
