4—The Davidsonian—December 19, 1980

Features

Scholars ponder the future of Richards and Bailey.

(Continued from page 2)

"I really do think this is, if not unique to Davidson, certainly very uncommon, and unusually common among its graduates."

There are many ways one can learn to serve while here. The SGA phonathon was a recent example. As with any endeavor of this magnitude, there are always many more people to thank than time or space in which to thank them. Even so, being the front runner for the administration on this project, let me express the College’s gratitude to the SGA officers and senate, phonathon chairmen, night chairmen, student callers, and support volunteers. In all, over 300 students participated—by calling, researching phone numbers, tallying totals, calling on local businesses for prizes, and supplying refreshments—in this incredibly detailed operation. Moreover, the assistance and cooperation of many others were integral to success. The Art department, the Union, the Physical Plant, the Chambermaids, the Communications Office, the Computer Services Center—not to mention the Development Staff—made their essential contributions. The kudos could continue for pages.

Just what did all this accomplish? First of all, it raised $61,000 in pledges for the Living Endowment from 1,077 donors, almost all of whom are alumni. Of those donors, 304 had never given to the College before, collectively contributing $8,028. Beyond those raw figures, the phonathon has helped the College come closer to meeting the $100,000 Dana Challenge. (Incidentally, The Davidsonian was incorrect last week in reporting that the College need only raise $100,000 in order to win the $100,000 challenge grant.)

Phonathons are designed primarily for the small donor and the new donor, the toughest prospects for a college. Studies indicate that the first gift of an alumnus is the most difficult to obtain, i.e., requires the most solicitous effort. By focusing on older, richer alumni, the total dollars raised by the phonathon could have indeed been larger; however, considering the long-term benefits, they could not have been more important. It is no exaggeration to say that this student phonathon—merely counting only the classes of the '70s—will be worth millions of dollars to Davidson College over the span of our lifetime. Thanks to everyone! And congratulations for making your college an even better institution.

Michel C. Daisley
Director of Corporate Programs

(Continued from page 1)

"I can’t believe it," Genevra Kelly said of the success of the venture. Kelly headed the Telephonathon with McNair Helm and Derek Harbin. "The best part of it is that so many different types of people..."

The Campus Forum

Phonathon (David McCurry)

Choppers to move houses after giant blade slices foundations

By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Writer

The new Commons is really here now, but the nearly completed building has almost obscured the Slater eating houses, Bailey and Richards. They said all along that Bailey and Richards were to be moved. Construction workers even muddied up two spaces on the court in anticipation of the move. But Bailey and Richards remain—firmly ensconced, behind their younger cousin, the Commons. The question in everybody’s mind is how they’re going to move the eating houses. A few freshmen believe the grease, which has accumulated beneath the houses over the years, will help the houses in a slip-and-slide fashion. Others suggest a plan to use the campus...Dogs Eskimo-style by placing the eating houses on sleds and having the dogs pull the rigs down Patterson Court with the first big snowfall. The Philosophy department plans to solve the entire problem by proving the houses have already been moved. The SGA, believers in working with people, propose Richards and Bailey be moved by manpower in much the same way the pyramids were constructed thousands of years ago. The definitive answer, though, lies with Harper Hiner, Superintendent with the L.B. Cox Construction Company, Inc. The houses, he says, will be stripped of their brick walls. Holes will then be knocked in the sides of each house, and steel beams will be inserted beneath the floor beams. Large wheels will be attached to these beams, and each house, essentially a wooden structure, will be rolled down to its new site. Large trucks will do the towing. The basements, of course, will be left behind. Basements at the new sites may not be dug. The obstacles to digging new basements are the telephone poles, which have been driven deep into the ground to solidify the loose earth on which the houses will be placed. The electrical wiring and plumbing will be severed before the transition, and will be reconnected when the houses are in place. The brick walls will also be replaced. The operation should take only about a week or so for each house, and will occur in July 1981. Hiner has apparently declined the suggestions offered him by the many groups who have tackled the problem.

Not Mine

To the Editor:

As I was reading the paper last week, I was appalled to find an article presumably about me! The letter spoke of a student “who recognized her stolen bike and did nothing to catch the criminal because she was ‘anxious’ to return to the library to study for a test.” The article was written in the first person singular, yet the student who wrote the article was not present at the scene. The author wrote from second-hand information which was rather distorted. In the first place, my bike was not stolen a year ago, but last Fall while it had been locked up at PAX. The article read that “I watched as she recognized every mark, every scratch, every singularity which identified the bike as her own.”

This is not true! The color and the brand name of the bike matched mine, but my bike was older. My bike was extensively rusted, on the spokes, the rims, the seat bar, and the handlebar. A bike shop could not remove these stains; therefore, I doubt an amateur could. The author spoke of self-respect, but no self-respecting person would accuse an obviously innocent person. I do not condone criminal acts, neither do I commend false accusations. Any good reporter would have consulted all sources of the news before coming to any conclusions. The author judged too quickly!

Name withheld by request

Several Trustees have already praised the project. “They were flabbergasted,” Kelly said. Kelly added that she hopes the SGA will repeat the Telephonathon next year and raise even more money.

P.O. Box 30
892-8690

BARGER CONSTRUCTION
“Good Builders Since 1925”
384 N. Main Street
M.A. Wicker, Pres. & Treasurer
Ben L. Millsaps, Exec. V. President & Secretary
Mooresville, NC 28115

Something New!
Natural Stocking Stuffers
128 S. Main St.
Davidson
892-7521