Folk singer John Prine to highlight Mid Winters
By JEFF HERRIN
Staff Correspondent

This year's Mid Winters concert will feature John Prine, an accomplished but little-known folk-rocker with humorous tendencies. He will appear Friday evening, February 1, in Love Auditorium.

Since his start in the early seventies, this singer-songwriter has recorded seven albums, his most recent being Pink Cadillac, released in the summer of ’79. An earlier album, Bruised Orange, earned Prine national recognition after it received a citation from Time magazine as one of the top ten LPs of 1978. His songs have been recorded by pop, country, folk, and rock performers, and he has developed a mass audience through his many club and concert tours.

The quality of Prine’s music is described with varying degrees of admiration by different people, but all agree on his style. Says rock critic David Marsh in The Rolling Stone Record Guide: “After over five albums of original songs, John Prine has evolved from a sentimental but witty folkie into a nihilistic but thoughtful soft-rocker.” His lyrics tend to be downbeat, reflecting his personality and philosophy: Prine is known for his moving ballads and sad homilies. “But,” he says, “I think all of my songs are really optimistic.”

John Prine was born in Maywood, Illinois, and began to play the guitar at the age of thirteen. He got his big start by impressing Paul Anka so much that the latter supplied Prine with airfare to New York City. Once there, Prine ended up on a stage with Kris Kristofferson and Carly Simon. The next morning he signed a five-year recording contract with Atlantic, and from then on he kept climbing.

John Stanfield, a Davidson graduate and local singer-songwriter, will be the warm-up act.

SMITH’S FLOWERS
302 Smith Circle
Cornelius
305 N. Main St.
Through Feb. 9
Mid-Winter SALE
Up to 30% Off on Framed and Unframed Prints.
10% Off for Framing of Sale prints.
THE COPELAND HOUSE
Davidson, N.C.

“Nihilistic but thoughtful soft-rocker” John Prine will appear in Love Auditorium February 1.

January 25, 1980—The Davidsonian

Davidson favorite John Stanfield will be the warm-up act. (Gary Heery)

Find nightlife and excitement at the 7-11
By WHIT WAMPLER
Staff Correspondent

Are you one of those students who complains about a lack of nightlife at Davidson? Do you wonder if there is more to a Friday night than going to the pop film and sitting in the 900 Room for a few hours watching people just like the ones in your dorm, eating house, and classes (because they are, the ones in your dorm, eating house, and classes)?

I’ve heard that if you really want to find the nightlife in Davidson, head for your friendly neighborhood 7-11. Rumor has it that some co-eds will turn down an evening of music, soft lights, and a bottle of wine in exchange for the gas-pump speaker, fluorescent bulbs, and Big Wheels of the third shift down the road.

To find out if the 7-11 really is where to find the action, Friday night I visited Eddie Woodie there, where since November he has been working the third shift, from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. I reached the mecca of junk food and magazine addicts about 12:30 a.m. In eager anticipation and with Eddie’s permission, I settled down on the counter to await the much sought-after but seldom found “action.” Eddie was so busy just then that I couldn’t ask him any questions, so I watched.a steady stream of customers until, suddenly at 1 a.m., he had a free moment. Before my big chance to find the action slipped away, I jumped in with a question. The first thing I learned was that the store had just completed its busiest half hour of the night — the last one during which it is licensed to sell beer. The only people who came in between 1 and 1:30 were some Davidson students and a woman in a fake-fur coat who wanted directions to I-77. She wanted to leave. The Davidson students wanted beer, so they left, too. As I also considered leaving, a man wearing an orange and white 7-11 employee’s shirt revealing a plain, white undershirt strolled in. With an authoritative air, he began to pull out-of-date baked goods off the shelves. As he passed the counter near Eddie, I heard him muttering something about ‘irregular procedure in the store’ and firing people. Suspecting that I was the irregular procedure and he was the manager, I summoned my courage, described my mission, and ventured to ask him for a description of his work. With a wry smile, he described himself as a spy. Then a gleam came into his eye as he confessed his status as a full-time employee of Davidson College moonlighting as a 7-11 inspector. For proof, he directed me to his picture on the wall of Chambers which identifies him as Sergeant First Class Herbert L. Cagle, Davidson ROTC department. In a helpful spirit, he began showing me some of the stranger candy sold at 7-11. His favorites were the Bubble Burger, a hamburger-shaped and colored chunk of gum that comes packed in a box, another gimmicky container filled with cheap candies, these shaped like lunch items and ironically designed to teach children good nutrition. Even more cooperatively, Sergeant Cagle divulged the name, location, and rates of the local bootlegger for beer after 1:00 a.m. He also indicated that the after-hours 7-11 is upon occasion the scene of a rousing brawl, although normally it harbors only a few dedicated coffee-drinkers and CB-ers. In keeping with this rather low-key image of an early morning coffee-club, the 7-11 has never been robbed, but people have driven away from the self-service gas pumps without paying. Employees do take precautions, however, because I noticed Eddie industriously depositing his receipts over thirty-five dollars in the safe since he keeps no more than that in the register. Since Eddie was busy, I took advantage of Cagle’s gregariousness and asked him a few questions. The most unusual person he could remember meeting in a 7-11 was Richard. Richard, in his forties, had a passion for trains and maple syrup. He knew all about every train that went through Davidson, and he bought Log Cabin syrup by the bottle which he reportedly drank from the spout. The biggest event in Richard’s life was meeting Lawrence Welk; he will show you a photograph of the occasion in which he is holding a bottle of his favorite syrup. That’s all I know about Richard. As for other characters frequenting the 7-11 who might be able to tell us where the action is, I saw only Union Operations Manager Tom Bessellieu buying a comic book at 2 a.m. Maybe Tom knows something we don’t. At any rate, if you’re looking for the action on a Friday night, stop by the 7-11 and visit Eddie. You might have to wake him up, but he's looking for it, too.