SMITH’S FLOWERS

302 SMITH CIRCLE 892-8856
CORNELIUS

IZOD ba

and your choice too!

John Mack & Sony

Downtown Mooresville

April 18, 1980—The Davideonian—7

Board Chairman John Willingham said.

The ATC had a special meeting Friday to consider the fate of the Miscellany.

“There was a general concern on the part of the ATC that the Miscellany was no longer a student activity.
The ATC wanted to make sure that student money was used for student activities,” Willingham said.

(Continued from page 1)

If it were used for regular housing, “there would be too much intensity,” Bolding said. This will not be the
case with only eight to ten occupants.

Bolding also pointed out that the house lacked the parking space necessary for the number of students usually living in
an off-campus house.

Shanks said he didn’t feel the building’s location justified its being restricted to women. “It’s just as easy to find
8 quiet guys,” he said.

Women will be selected for the honors center on the basis of involvement in campus life, Bolding stated. The center
is available to women from all classes.

“There’s a basic need for women’s programs,” Bolding explained, “and for a study center for women.”

Associate Dean of Students and Committee on Women’s Concerns Chairman Sue Ross said she hoped the women in the center
will form a “nucleus” for discussions of women’s issues.

The center could work together with the Union minorities committee to organize programs, she added.

An example of possible programming, Ross said, would be discussions with professional women on “balancing a career and home.”

Bolding said he hoped the center would accommodate women from the whole “spectrum” of viewpoints, from “liberal” women to those
advocating “more traditional roles.”

KOSHER HOT DOGS AND COLD BEER 25¢ CUP
EAT IN OR OUTSIDE

11:00 — UNTIL

FAS FROLICS
FRI. & SATURDAY AFTERNOON

(Continued from page 1)
sentiment for another fraternity among CCRL members, Ross said the decision was made on the basis of the opinions of
the majority of students and the comparative benefits to future students.

Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross, who presided over Monday’s CCRL meeting, said the council’s decision was influenced by two
straw polls. The most recent, conducted on April 1, showed strong preference for the second house to be coed as
opposed to a new fraternity, all girls’ house, or sorority. Three hundred seventy students favored a coed house, 127 favored
a new fraternity, and 2 each favored an all girls’ house or sorority.

However, Miscellany Editor Dave Roberts, advisor Julius Winkler, and English Professor Gill Holland convinced the Media Board, “...that there was
a lot more student involvement with the Miscellany than we thought,” Willingham said.

“We had considered not giving the Miscellany any money,” Londrey said; but they made it clear that this past issue
with little student participation was an exception.”

“The Miscellany is a student activity,” Roberts said, “It gives students interested in literature a chance to edit top-notch material
and gives them business experience.”

Roberts said about 15 students work on the Miscellany staff.

Londrey said that although the ATC was satisfied with Roberts’ presentation, “This issue does need to be reexamined in the
future.”

The SGA approved the ATC’s allocations Monday night.

—Focus on Athletics—

Despite the opinions of some athletes, such as baseball player John Haskell, who would prefer the football program cut entirely,
others disagreed, saying the present level of competition is realistic. Perkey said that dropping to Division III would not save
any money, since there are no Division III schools in North Carolina, so that travel expenses would be higher. Soccer
player Doug Schuessler observed that there was little financial data available about athletic funding. From what he has seen, however,
Schuessler said, “they go above and beyond” what is needed for a competitive team.

Rhyne had a number of specific proposals on how to reduce football costs. He suggested that there be more recruiting
in North Carolina, that spring football and some of the assistant coach positions be eliminated, and that scheduling of games
be made more economical. Rhyne pointed out that a number of athletes objected to the moral basis of recruiting. “A
distorted view is given in recruiting,” Haskell said, and, although this is common practice, “we shouldn’t set our moral standard
on what other schools do. There’s a high level of honesty in minor sports.” Generally, minor sports athletes emphasized that
their goal was not to hurt the major sports. “They should be kept in perspective,” Marshall said. Haskell concluded, “To
be realistic is the most important thing.”

News At A Glance

EPC reviews core curriculum

The Educational Policy Committee is preparing to recommend changes in Davidson’s core curriculum, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs
Price Zimmermann.

“We are focusing on what a Davidson education is,” Zimmermann said, noting that the EPC is considering questions such as:
Why insist on certain courses? What sort of course should satisfy requirements? Why have a language requirement?

The EPC will present its report to the faculty May 6. Any changes adopted by the faculty would go into
effect fall term 1981.

Decrease in average grades

The average grades of Davidson students have decreased since September 1976, according to Registrar Richard Burts.

Burts released the grade figures to demonstrate that the Davidson “modest” trend of “grade inflation” has been reversed.

Average grades for the last seven academic years were:

1972-73—2.9852, 1973-74—3.0234, 1974-75—3.0868, 1975-76—3.1006, 1976-77—3.0851, 1977-78—3.0747, 1978-79—3.0234
