December 5, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

STUDENTS APL Wet4 caupr lon 9 W tt

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Assistant Features Editor

Graffiti. You'll find the stuff wherever you go—walls, halls, trees, signboards, subway cars and, of course, bathrooms. What is it? Scribbled, hurried, obscene, or just plain stupid temporary monuments to some uneducated nobody’s worthless posterity, right? Maybe. Maybe not, if you answer the call of nature in a Davidson facility.

We think nothing of it in our sheltered academic college atmosphere, but a visitor passing through might immediately notice that there is something different about the stuff they write on the bathroom walls here. True, a lot of the scribbling one reads is the typically trite or frightfully repulsive spattering of indigestible frustration that gives graffiti its traditionally bad name. Old bores like “Do drugs” or “Werner Heisenberg may have been here” represent typical collegiate fare, not to mention the perennial favorite of the graffiti artist: the graphically obscene limerick (“There was a young girl from Secaucus...”). Even the most avid Tolkien fan no longer trembles with inspiration at the sight of the thoroughly worn-out-but-omnipresent “Frodo lives.” Like any other school, Davidson is guilty of proliferating such trash.

However, on trips to the lavatories of the two main buildings on campus—Chambers and the library—it soon becomes apparent to the W.C. reader that Davidson students have far advanced the noble cause of graffiti to the point where much of it is actually printable. As the following selections will show, there is a kind of intellectual, almost artistic flair that makes campus scribblings interesting, amusing, thought-provoking or even revealing.

Short jokes, for example, are always in abundance, and in their own way reflect the liberal arts atmosphere on campus. Take for instance, “I’ll be back in a minute, Godot,” or “Free Prometheus!” You know they’re clever when they’re over your head. Then there is the affection that the intelligentsia has for puns: “Where’s Beethoven? He’s not on my Liszt. He must be Haydn. Can you bring him Bach? Yes, I can Handel that. But don’t Teleman about it.” An old, fading jest in a men’s library stall is particularly inside and punny: “Q: Why is this restroom so dirty? A: This is a Presbyterian college and they believe in sanitation by faith alone.”

Observing how graffiti is written is very enlightening. Consider the effort of those who frequent the Union men’s room to perfect the art of writing on the grout between tiles, tiles being so difficult to write on. And handwriting often reveals the personality of the writer just as well as what he writes. In one Chambers stall, the following dialogue takes place between six different hands:
1: Werner Heisenberg may have been here.
2: (big letters) FALSE.
3: But it’s uncertain.
4: (big letters) STUPID.
5: (small writing) Can you come up with better?
6: (smaller writing) How about let’s all be friends.

Such dialogues are not uncommon and each response seems to come from a different hand. These get rather involved when students start debating their three favorite subjects: politics, philosophy, and Davidson.

Politics
In an election year you just can’t escape it, even in a bathroom. The favorite line that popped up everywhere this fall was “Ronald Ray-gun, the fascist gun in the West.” But there was much more. In the men’s room of 2nd Chambers, a somewhat lucid debate over the presidential candidates takes a few odd turns. It begins: “Don’t vote for four more years of bungling incompetence, staggering deficits, runaway inflation...” plus a number of other serious complaints. It is followed by, “Don’t vote for a man who has no party, who would not be able to work with Congress, who has no leadership qualities.” And who could this be? “Don’t vote for a man who has a silver tongue and a preschooler’s conception of the energy crisis.”

The rest of the debate degenerates hilariously:
“OK, so Jimmy wasn’t a great president. But how about that Amy? Wow!!!”
“No president can save us. What we need is a messiah.”
A curvy arrow leads to “FRODO LIVES."
From this, a second arrow leads to: “Write in for Nixon—the best President in the 20th century.”
“Maybe not the best, but at least 3rd best...behind Teddy Roosevelt and Gerald Ford.”
“Good joke, ha ha.”
“Soon to 4th best after Reagan wins in an electoral vote landslide.”
“Crawl in your hole and die.”
“Reagan = American Imperialism.”
“Imperialism is the only alternative for mature capitalism, or would you rather have socialism?”
“Yea, socialism!”
“You fascist pig!”
“Liberalism is on its deathbed.”
“Aren't we all!”

After all this, one brave soul chides the political bores, chastises the former for his bad attitude, apathy and immature word usage. It concludes with advice to “hit the road.” Interestingly, the bad grammar is corrected by another writer who calls himself the “Phantom Proofreader.” In a bathroom!More commentary follows. “I like your word usage too.” “My, what scathing rhetoric!” The chastised writer answers, “Let me know when I should start trembling in fear.” “Give him heck! Scat, you ugly cat!” “Have you ever considered being an ancient Greek orator?” Another writes, “Why argue politics at all? What has that to do with me and the universe? Politics are here today, gone tomorrow. Decide and vote. Then shut up and discuss more important things. Political arguments are for self-proclaimed know-it-all, close-minded farts. There are countless things in the world which are more important.”

Political polarity in Chambers is evident in that, while the above-quoted 2nd Chambers men’s room seems to have favored Reagan, a “stall-poll” taken on the third floor supported Carter hands down over Reagan.

Philosophy

Pseudo-philosophical exercises are also frequent favorites of frustrated young thinkers. One somewhat rebellious reel reads: “You are what you think you are, yet the less you know of yourself, the more you are what you don’t know you are.” In the basement of the library, newfound knowledge naively hits the wall: “You may find that having is not as pleasing as wanting; it is not logical, but it is often true.” One skeptic demands that definition of ‘pleasing’ and a pessimist disgustedly concludes, “Ordinary Language Analysis bites!” Knowledge often comes in revelations which can, indeed, occur in the john, to which the following epithets attest: “Death, the Final Frontier.” “The mirror is wrong.” “Truth, oh wonderful truth!”

Davidson

Such bits and pieces, however, cannot compare with Davidson’s biggest distraction—Davidson College. Now the walls become collections of local humor or battlegrounds of debate and self-analysis. “What does the T.C. in T.C. Price Zimmermann stand for?” one submission queries. Underneath are written over twenty banal guesses, including “Torrential Cornflakes” or “Too Crusty.” Frustrations about academics can surface in desperate pleas like “Free the Davidson 1300!” In Chambers, these come to full Socratic flower. One flurry of arguments begins with questionably genuine optimism: “I like D.C. Deep in my heart there is an insatiable hunger, an unquenchable thirst, a desire, a lust. I want to learn. For what good is man without knowledge? Man must strive, he must work; most of all he should procreate. In other words, he should fornicate.” The bold reply: “This college sucks.” A number of responses trail down toward the floor. The first, written hastily with bad language and grammar, states, “You missed the point, vindictive person. Anything can suck and still be of use. Look at a vacuum cleaner.” “True in some situations, but contradictory in this one.” “Wrong! It could suck less than other options and thus be of definite value; i.e., the lesser of two (or more) evils.”

Back on 2nd Chambers, commentary on Davidson gets more satirically self-critical: “Why can’t D.C. students realize we aren’t the center of the universe?” “Cause we is.” “Do you mean to say that the sun doesn’t really revolve around Davidson?!” “What do you mean, the world’s not flat?!!” “Because there is no universe...” “My good friends, according to Realm philosophy, we are the center.” Finally, a science major chimes in: “Because the universe has no center. You’re always going out—never in. Don’t you know anything? (Expletive deleted) humanities types—never take a science course yet they think they know everything.”

Surprisingly, the men’s stalls on Chambers and E.H. Little offer little of such debates about Davidson social life. There are a few stall contests, like “Who is the most beautiful coed at D.C.?” or the one that seeks to determine the most beautiful feminine behind on campus, but many of the responses are far from serious. Of the printable graffiti concerning the fairer sex, only one comment stands out: “Davidson women are largely coquettish.” What do the women have to say about this? Not much. In Chambers, not a tile or door is stained with the least scrap of literature in the women’s rooms while in the men’s rooms the words are almost dripping off the doors. The same is true in the library. Why such a stifling of creative writing? Are Davidson women simply more inhibited than men or do they have their own exclusive social mores that discourage graffiti? Perhaps. But there is one notable exception: the ladies’ lav of the basement floor of the library. Here some graffiti appears on the walls and deals exclusively with Davidson men. Frustration is more than obvious: “I don’t think D.C. men are boring: There just aren’t enough of them.” “If he isn’t boring, then one is enough.” “If he is boring, then one is enough!” “Enough! Cease your wanton babbling, girls...” “They are too boring! And there are too many of them!” “Davidson men—” “—boys!” “—are all so bland and uniform.” “—not the Fiji’s!” “What a conformist school!” “You got it, Toots!” (See Graffiti, page 10)