Magna Vis Veritatis IDSO IAN Volume LXX, Number 8 Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. November 7, 1980

By SALLY CAMPBELL Staff Writer

College President Samuel Spencer presented his personal proposals concerning Davidson’s curriculum in a speech at Fall Convocation Saturday. A strengthened curriculum is necessary, Spencer said, for a decreasing population of 18-year-olds and an increasing need for “global perspective” in a growing interdependent world. Spencer called for greater expansion of the Humanities program, a more innovative approach to Language studies, and a much larger emphasis on study abroad.

By JOHN SIMAN News Editor

The Admissions decisions for the Class of 1984 were made all over again this fall—but not by the Admissions Office. An article about the omnipresent drag appears on page 4.5. Senior Ed Trumbull pulls an all-nighter with the aid of caffeine.

Spencer calls for global vision

Spencer said in an interview Tuesday that the changes he proposes would mean increasing the faculty “above the 100 number,” which is its present limit. There would be inevitably a reduction of the [student-faculty] ratio. (This ratio is now officially 13:1.) However, Spencer said if more students enroll in foreign study programs, the College will be able to increase overall enrollment since a large number of students will always be off campus.

His speech was not sparked by the EPC proposals, Spencer said. EPC Chairman Price Zimmermann added that the EPC sees no “incongruence between its report and the President's comments.” The Humanities program is a valuable “drawing card” for students of high quality.

Seniors Katherine Allen and Karen Hester headed a group that selected a “hypothetical class” as part of an evaluation of the College’s sex-based admissions policy. Allen said 408 (59.1 percent of the applicants accepted) men and 282 (40.9 percent) women would have been selected from 1560 total applicants, according to Allen and Hester. Actually, 482 (63.5 percent) men and 249 (36.5 percent) women were accepted.

Humanities may expand

By CATHEY BOST Staff Correspondent

The Humanities program has solved its staffing problem for next term, but College President Samuel Spencer foresees larger changes in the program’s future. Spencer in his speech at Fall Convocation suggested that the program be expanded to meet student demand. Because demand for Humanities among this year’s freshman class “far out-ran the supply of places,” Spencer said, “change is essential.”

There are two possible solutions to the problem of excessive student demand, Spencer explained: to make the program “selective on a basis which is clearly understood by and defensible to incoming students” or “to expand the program to meet the demand.” Spencer proposed expansion because Humanities is “quite obviously, a drawing card for students of high quality.”

To expand the program, “we will have to get more staff,” Spencer said in an interview Tuesday. There could be a rearrangement of class loads in other departments if in the future almost all incoming freshmen elect to take Humanities, he added. Expanding the program would involve a long-term commitment comparable to the College’s commitment to a Computer Services Center, Spencer said. Spencer said he had not spoken specifically about his proposals with the EPC.

Martin defeats Kincaid

By JENNY O’BRIANT Staff Correspondent

Representative Jim Martin, a Republican, defeated Democratic challenger Professor Randy Kincaid in the race for North Carolina’s ninth district congressional seat. Martin received78,587 votes (Trustee policy dictates that the Admissions Office follow an approximate two-to-one ratio of men to women in accepting applicants.) Allen and Hester are co-chairpersons of the Davidson chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW), through which they have been pushing for an equal access admission policy for three years. Under equal access admissions, reports from Lincoln County, nor some 4,000 absentee ballots which were being tallied by hand Wednesday morning after a counting machine malfunctioned. At Davidson Town Hall, 589 votes were cast for Kincaid and 414 for Martin.

“It’s a bad year to be a Democrat,” Kincaid said, reflecting on Republican victories. (See Martin, page 3)

This article is the second of two parts.

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

As important as philosophical differences were questions about the practical effects the EPC proposals would have on Davidson's educational program. The primary question was that of staffing. If the proposals were passed, some departments, such as Philosophy and Economics, would have to teach every single Davidson student. Others, such as the foreign language departments, would have to teach an additional course. Still others would have to handle some 330 students, perhaps more, over four years—practically all economics courses are filled. To accommodate every student, Ratliff said, “we would have to increase the size of each section—or add more staff.” And, because of room size limitations, he added, it is difficult to enlarge sections further.

The general assumption among members of the History department, History professor David Shi said, is that it would require one or two additional faculty members. Mathematics Department Chairman Bruce Jackson said that since most students take a math course already, even requiring a term of math would not be a serious potential problem.

In their written statement, the members of the Philosophy department declared that they must have an increase in staff. Philosophy professor Earl MacCormac explained that at the present time 50 percent of the student body takes a philosophy course while they are at Davidson. If 600 more are added, at least 400 of these will take a philosophy course rather than Humanities. “There is no way in the world,” MacCormac said, “we could possibly handle such an increase.”

Faculty worries about EPC proposals’ effects on staffing needs became a larger issue because of the limit of 100 on the size of the faculty. Professors expressed concern that, if some departments must be increased to meet the demands of a new core curriculum, others will have to be cut. Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann predicted at the student forum that there would be no "net additions" to the faculty. “Obviously if there are additions in one department there will have to be deletions,” he said. However, he added, “I anticipate no wholesale personnel changes in the faculty.” Psychology professor John Kelton said that it would not be necessary to “release faculty members,” but that any reallocation of resources would be a challenge.

(See EPC Proposals, page 4)