October 31, 1975—The Vaviasoman— Wolfe's story in Look Homeward, Angel relevant to college students

By JEAN SORACCO
Backpage Editor

“She managed to take the book, massive and sprawling, and structure it into a fine theater piece within the confines of theater structure,” commented Theatre Professor Rupert Barber on Ketti Frings’ stage version of Thomas Wolfe’s Look Homeward, Angel. Barber is directing the College production of the play set to open Thursday, October 30 at 7:30 in Hodson Hall.

The play focuses more on the Gant family than the novel which focuses on both the community and the family. The theme of the play involves the young man, Eugene, breaking away from his family to go to college. “I have found the theme exciting to work with because it relates so closely with the college-age student,” Barber said. “So many plays are not relevant to college students, but this one is identifiable.”

For those unfamiliar with the novel, it follows Thomas Wolfe’s life from childhood through his college years. Barber feels that Look Homeward, Angel is not “completely autobiographical, but it is certainly based on true characters and events.”

“The novel is good because of the language and the characters,” Barber said, “but this does not hold on stage. Frings has created a theater piece capturing the essence of the novel. Wolfe initially viewed himself as a playwright and studied to be one. I think that he would be pleased with the play.”

Barber and Theater Professor Joseph Gardner have designed the play with memory as the idea behind the play. “Memory involves the pulling of bits and pieces back into the mind,” said Barber. Gardner feels that “Wolfe was reflecting upon his youth when he wrote his novel.”

Emphasizing memory presented a challenge to Dr. Gardner in designing the set. The set must correspond to the fragmentary nature of memory using “quite detailed parts that are pieces of a whole.” Gardner added, “It’s like a mosaic with missing pieces.”

The play covers the three weeks before Eugene leaves for college. Most of the scenes take place at his mother’s boarding house which is a large, elaborate setting involving three bedrooms, a hall, the veranda, and backyard. There is also a scene inside his father’s marble shop.

The lighting has several functions: focus, mood, and emphasis. All of the scene changes are done with lighting. In conjunction with the memory idea, the lighting will not be realistic. Light will focus on the statue of the angel which will be onstage throughout the entire performance. “A visual metaphor is always (David McCurry) appearance.”

Artist’s bland

By JOHN MILLER MAYFIELD
Staff Correspondent

Robert Postma sat in Chambers gallery with his exhibit of nine paintings representing a span of his artistic career from 1969 to 1980. He began by saying that he did not want to talk in front of his work. The voice, like the man, was timid and quiet: one has to listen carefully and Postma seemed to like it that way. The balding figure did not possess the physical eccentricities of an artist, but appeared more like a man whose face you would not remember. He wore a tie and leisure suit jacket, part of his composed middle American image. But his tennis shoes didn’t fit that image, hinting at his uniqueness.

The venting (maybe too strong a word for a quiet man) of that uniqueness is this man’s art. Postma, even under direct questioning, would not discuss his work or views in Chambers. He did not exchange ideas, but delivered a composed impenetrable monologue about his life. Postma was willing to talk about how he came to be an abstract artist. Even after a mail order art course, he claimed his artistic thoughts were naive. He thought abstract.belies abstract paintings as sleazy, quick, and superficial. His real education began in the museum where he found old masters, impressionists, and modern works. Now not concerned with his contemporaries, he claimed the museum artists as those with whom he would compete. Postma finally found his art form, abstract painting. He dated his last image painting as 20 years ago this November. The title of this exhibition, Robert Postma: Large Paintings 1969-1980, suggests a transition over time. The first painting, dating from 1969, is a large canvas with vertical bands of intense uniform color. This work is clearly an uninspiring beginning, a start from which to judge Postma’s artistic transition.

The next three canvases, dating from 1975-77 (what he painted in the preceding six years is unknown to us), present a new format: arrangements of precise sharp triangles rendered in a range of color extended to include toned down, lighter hues. The triangles of which these pieces are composed vary both in size and acuteness of their angles. This variety creates a total fragmentation of forms and a cascading crystal sharpness in composition. The space between the triangles, no matter how minute, is most important in these paintings. The handling of that space determines the effectiveness of the transitions between the triangles. Here, the forms are delineated by the thin white strips of unpainted canvas, the result of the hard-edged technique. Postma has failed to deal with this transition. In a few places, he does add weak and timid lines of color. On the whole, the paintings' controlled perfection of surface and color show the removal of any evidence of the artist's hand, which contributes greatly to the works’ sharpness.

In the last set of paintings, those from 1978-1980, Postma introduced a spontaneity of brush strokes and color, revealing his creative process. He now possesses enough security to show both successful and unsuccessful attempts.

(See Artist, page 11)

necessary for theater,” Gardner said. In Look Homeward, Angel the metaphor happens to be given in the title. “The angel, a very rich metaphor, helps provide focus for what is being stated in the play,” he added. “The angel symbolized the potential, the possibility, and the hope that exists in the world outside the boarding house.”

The cast represents a mixture of newcomers and veterans to the stage, from freshmen to seniors. The preparation of the cast has been extensive. “I encouraged each member of the cast to read the sections of the novel pertaining to the play,” Barber said. “Some have read the entire novel and others have delved into their characters by reading other Wolfe novels.” The cast visited Asheville to see the actual boarding house—presently a Thomas Wolfe memorial, Wolfe’s grave, and the site of the angel. Dr. William Cumming spoke with the cast about a meeting that he had with Wolfe’s mother and sister. Sue Ross, a Wolfe enthusiast, talked with some cast members about the relationship between the novel characters, the play characters, and the real characters. Barber feels that it becomes “increasingly difficult to separate the novel from the play from the true story; the three are blended so well together.”

Eighty students are involved in the production. The prop committee has been particularly challenged in finding 1916-type props, Barber said. “Also, all of the marble works inside the shop had to be made.” In addition to the student opening Thursday night, there will be two performances on Friday at 5:00 and 8:30, and one on Saturday at 8:00. There will be three performances next week at 7:30 on Thursday, November 6, and at 8:00 on November 7 and 8. The cast consists of James Baskin as W.O. Gant, Sheri Gravett as Eliza, James Funsten as Ben, Julie Webber as...

(See Angel, page 11)