6—The Davidsonian—October 10, 1980

Features

Nighthawks bring blues to Davidson next Friday

By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

An odd thing happened one night in Georgetown, D.C. Two bands were playing across the street from each other. Nothing odd in that, you say? Well, at a pre-set time, the bands started Madison Blues. The lead guitarist from each band strolled outside and met in the middle of the street, jammed awhile, switched electrical cords, and finished the song. The accompanying crowd caused all traffic to stop. One band was led by George Thorogood. The other band was the Nighthawks.

Traffic on Main Street may not stop, and Davidson may not hear anyone called George Thorogood, but the Nighthawks will be here for Homecoming weekend, and they plan to rock and roll Love Auditorium with a sound that has taken them to 32 states and made it possible to record over five albums. They use a style of music according to one critic “that combines the feeling and instrumental subtlety of traditional blues with the energy and dynamic live performances of blues-rock.”

The Nighthawks have made numerous records, individually as well as together. As a group, they have five albums although The Nighthawks on Mercury is their first major label LP. The band got their start in 1972 when “it was a black period for blues,” but this fueled them even more. The Nighthawks have performed on the same bill with established blues performers such as James Cotton, Otis Rush, and J.B. Hutto and have been joined on stage by artists such as Muddy Waters, Johnny Winter, Elvin Bishop, Bonnie Raitt, Clarence Clemmons, and James Montgomery. Greg Allman joined them for several east coast dates after seeing them in Jacksonville, Alabama.

The Nighthawks are interested in making more albums. Wenner told a Chicago music magazine “we acquired se tanks for lis onde & & neat in Love Auditorium on Friday, October 17 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets went on sale October 6 at the Union Box Office.

College President Samuel Spencer promoted Colonel Roger Powell of the Davidson ROTC Department. Kathleen Powell pinned new silver eagles on recently (Communications Dept.)

Waves

By ROBERT BOWIE and TODD SWOFFORD
Staff Writers

Vienna
Ultravox (Chrysalis)

Vienna is the new album from the avant-garde pop group, Ultravox. Originally discovered by Brian Eno, who produced their first album, Ultravox follows in the tracks of David Bowie’s latest albums. Their mechanical, synthesized pop beat and their “arty” image make them the Kansas of new wave music. Ultravox can be as overrated by their fans as they are underrated by the pop charts. Their music manages to be interesting in places but as yet lacks the cutting edge of a really great group like The Clash or The Gang of Four. Ultravox certainly aims for history, but they hit next weekend and a bottle of rum. If you like this type of music or just want an album that looks cool without sounding too revolting, Ultravox is for you.By the way, Ultravox is the big beat and together with vocalist Mark Weaner they chew up the blues and spit them back in our faces. This album, though in the studio, has the sound and energy of a hot, live gig in a room a little warmer than the 900 Room. So just close your eyes, down a fifth of Wild Turkey, put on the record and you'll get some idea of what Ultravox is all about.

Philip Glass (Tomato)
Simple! Loud! Fast! Rock and roll? Not on your life. Philip Glass’ Dance 1 and 3 pumps new blood into the conservatory’s anemic veins. Praised by the New York Times, loved by Brian Eno, the album must be good. Sure enough. Some would call this music experimental. This means that Bohemians in New York mispronounce the word “didactic” when explaining it to their girlfriends. If you’ve seen the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey, you've heard this album. Glass repeats small chord clusters over and over while altering the rhythm behind them. While Beethoven makes the listener want to go invade Poland, Glass preaches the gospel of the Peace Generation to sit back and listen. Iris Hiskey’s voice lends an ethereal quality to the music and fits in like an angel at DCPC. Jerry Brown could explore the universe a lot better if he’d turn off Linda and give Philip a spin.

Housing crunch widespread
First of two parts

(CPS) The Saturday ritual of football games. Frats and sororities courting the new kids on campus. Having to wait in line for hours to register. And not enough space in the dorms for new students. Question: Which one of these facets of university life is only a recent phenomenon, yet threatens to become as familiar as the annual homecoming weekends? Answer: The Housing Crunch. Born in the late 70s, this infant has provoked temporary chaos on schools across the country. From Maine to Arizona, dorms are full, leaving the unlucky cramped into either converted study lounges, doubles changed to triples, or even motel rooms. In some cases, the inconvenience lasts for only a few weeks. In other schools, it takes months to cure the problem.

—At the University of Oklahoma in Norman, between 100 and 125 freshmen received notices that they would be tripled up in rooms normally inhabited by just two students. Others are shacking up with resident advisors who are usually privileged to singles.

—Students at the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque are living in rooms previously reserved for studying. Cots have been moved into them, though that is only expected to last several weeks. Those who are now living in triples originally designed for two students were given a letter when they arrived on campus which stated, “It may be necessary to (See Housing, page 11)

128 S. Main St.
Davidson 892-7521

Brie, Bleu, Boursin, Cheddars, Camembert, Danbo, Edam, Fondue, Gouda, Gjetost, Graddost, Havarti