October 24, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Candidate Martin feels Democrats cause of inflation

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Editor's Note: This is the second of the two articles about the candidates running for North Carolina's ninth district Congressional seat, Economics Professor Randy Kincaid and Congressman Jim Martin, who taught chemistry at Davidson until his election to the House in 1972. An interview with Kincaid, a Democrat, ran in last week’s Davidsonian. The Davidsonian interviewed Martin, a Republican, at his Charlotte headquarters last Friday.

Congressional Candidates Jim Martin and Randy Kincaid agree on one thing: economics is the key issue in their race. Martin unhesitatingly points his finger at government as the cause of economic troubles. He likens the way government takes in money to the way “the alimentary canal of a three-month-old baby” takes in food—“with an unbridled appetite and no responsibility.”

Martin blames inflation on the Keynesian policies of “26 uninterrupted years” of liberal democratic majorities in Congress. “Keynes said the government should stimulate demand by printing more money,” Martin said. “The result has been inflation with a base rate of more than 10 percent.”

Increased tax burdens are also the result of Keynesian policies, according to Martin. New taxes have financed the “income redistribution and social programs of the liberal democrats.” In addition, high taxes have weakened the economy. Martin attributes fall-offs in investment and production and increases in bankruptcies and unemployment to excessive tax burdens.

Martin attacked Kincaid’s view that inflation has a spectrum of causes. “He'd like to blame that on oil prices and defense spending,” Martin said. Martin emphasized that government spending and monetary policy are the sole causes of inflation. Oil prices, Martin said, are not a significant cause. “You can buy oil today cheaper than you could have 20 years ago if you buy with constant coinage,” he said. “Constant coinage” does not mean constant dollars, Martin explained, but refers to gold or silver coins, which have appreciated greatly in value over recent years.

For Martin, the proposed Kemp-Roth tax cut is the sort of policy that would revitalize the economy. The Kemp-Roth bill calls for three successive 10 percent tax cuts over three years. Martin believes it could fight the twin evils of high taxes, which make economic activity sluggish, and high spending, which causes inflation. Lower tax rates would stimulate investment, Martin said, and even generate more total tax revenue. He uses the example of Kennedy’s cutting taxes in 1962 and ending the year with a surplus due to the great amount of taxes collected from prospering businesses.

Martin interprets the spirit of Kemp-Roth to call for spending cuts to accompany tax cuts. “The Democratic philosophy is to raise more taxes to balance the budget,” Martin said. “Kemp believes the way to balance the budget is to restrain the growth of government.”

Martin rejects criticisms that Kemp-Roth favors upper-income taxpayers. One such criticism is that a 30 percent across-the-board tax cut would be worth several times more to a family with an income of $50,000 paying 40 percent in taxes than to a family making $15,000 paying 10 percent in taxes. However, Martin said that Kemp-Roth “is progressive. It gives twice as much of a tax break to those who pay twice as much taxes. To me that’s fair,” he said. “It cuts taxes in proportion to tax burden.”

A tax cut appropriated mainly to the poor would be inflationary, Martin said. The poor tend to spend extra income, thereby creating extra demand for goods and services. A tax cut appropriated more towards the rich, as Kemp-Roth is, would be invested and saved, helping “get the supply side up,” Martin said.

Martin also feels that any distribution of wealth that favors the poor tends to encourage “class warfare of pitting one class against another.”

On Defense

Martin is concerned that the United States has emphasized economic and social reform to the neglect of national defense. “My view is we are less likely to get drawn into a war if we're strong,” Martin said. Accordingly, he worries that defense spending measured in constant dollars has steadily declined over the past decade. To preserve peace we must not only be strong, Martin believes, but we also must be perceived as strong by potential enemies. For this end, Martin calls for improved...weapons systems and better salaries for military personnel, especially those at the lower levels. “Like it or not, it’s going to cost money,” he said. Providing for a strong defense is a “constitutional obligation” of the government. Martin feels higher salaries are needed for military personnel to counter their tendency to leave the service for better-paying civilian jobs. “We can’t keep them in...” Martin noted. Unlike Kincaid, Martin advocates construction of the B-1 bomber. He considers the present fleet of B-52s to be too old to serve effectively. Carter was wrong to unilaterally cancel the B-1, Martin said, for the Russians went ahead with the development of their Backfire bombers. If Carter had insisted on canceling the B-1, he should have first demanded an equivalent concession from the Russians. “They laughed at us,” Martin said. “The Russians are not pacifists and not fools.” Martin also favors the MX missile program. He fears the Minuteman silos will become tempting first-strike targets as the Russians improve their guidance systems. Thus, the MX, hidden underground and an almost impossible target, is a necessary though costly weapon. Greater dependence on missiles based in Trident submarines or other navy vessels is not a viable alternative to MX, Martin said. “What if the Russians’ continued research in ocean surveillance succeeds in making the oceans transparent? Then where are we?”

On PACs and Superfund

Kincaid charges that Martin is unduly influenced by campaign contributions from PACs (Public Affairs Committees). Martin resents such charges. “Life’s too short to go around destroying another person’s reputation,” Martin said. “Kincaid knows I’m not dishonest.” When a bill was introduced to committee to set up Superfund, a pooling of public and chemical industry money to be used to clean up chemical pollution, Martin opposed it, Kincaid alleges. However, on the floor of the House, Martin supported Superfund. Kincaid believes Martin took the side of the chemical industry in committee but took the public’s side on the floor, where Superfund was sure to pass anyway. Martin, however, maintains he supported Superfund all along. In committee, in fact, Martin says he did not actually vote against Superfund; rather he opposed an increase in its cost. On the floor, he was one of only eight House members who spoke out in favor of Superfund. Chemical companies have contributed almost $15,000 to Martin’s campaigns in the last four years, Martin said. He explained the money he received from chemical companies totaled only three percent of the total funds he raised. “I could do without it,” Martin said. “I have a broad base of support.” Also, Martin added, “I am a chemist. What's wrong with the one organic chemist in Congress getting support from other chemists? Am I supposed to get support from liberal economists?”

(continued from page 1)

to Davidson as it looks to the 1980s and the continued recruitment of highly qualified students and faculty. The need for enrichment of our computing resources is urgent. The objectives of the new computer system, the report continued, are to help students, faculty, administrative staff, and departments such as Development and Admissions. The report did not address the computer system’s cost and the NSF grant, nor did it specify tasks the computer will perform in admissions, development, etc.

Computers

DeSieno said that he has invited faculty members to visit the computer center and to ask any questions they may have. Burnett noted that on October 8 the faculty voted its unanimous approval of the computer program. Furthermore, Burnett said, faculty had been involved in two committees studying computers over the last two years. Locke said the Physics Department had known “quite a bit” about the plans for a new computer. DeSieno said the College will get in return for its investment a vastly expanded and improved computer system. Included in its abilities will be computer-assisted instruction, word processing, statistical analysis, and “PLATO”-like capabilities. “PLATO” is a student-oriented system that, for instance, allows a student to preview a lab assignment on a video screen before ever donning a lab coat or goggles. According to Burnett, the new Computer Service Center will be a comprehensive educational aid for students, faculty, and staff, such as the library is. It will do this, Burnett said, by improving course instruction, facilitating independent study and research, and giving administrative personnel more computer time.