December 5, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

The field hockey team looked optimistic before their trip to the Nationals. (Communication Department)

Basketball returnees bring hope of good season
By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

The preseason “bottom line” on the 1980-81 edition of Wildcat Basketball shows a powerful, veteran frontcourt coupled with a questionable
and relatively inexperienced backcourt. Third-year Coach Eddie Biedenbach welcomes back his entire front line along with key reserves, but once
again the guards are unproven and must be productive if the ’Cats are to compete for the Southern Conference crown.

The offensive end should not be a problem unless guard play breaks down completely. Good shooters abound as Davidson shot
.502 from the field last year. Plaguing Biedenbach’s squad throughout last season’s 8-18 campaign, defense is an area that must
be improved if the ’Cats are to compete with the likes of Notre Dame, Wake Forest, and UNC-C to name
just a few. The coaching staff has added several highly regarded recruits which should bolster Davidson’s overall attack and with
additional improvement from the regulars of a year ago, Wildcat fans can expect bigger and better things.

Down low the ’Cats will definitely play power basketball, that is if Rich DiBenedetto has anything to say about the
offensive sets. DiBenedetto, one of the premier inside performers in the college ranks, returns for his junior year after averaging
20 points and 7.6 rebounds per contest last season. Richie D. also shot .620 percent from the floor which was
selected first team all-Southern Conference and is an All-American candidate at power forward. Playing opposite DiBenedetto will be senior Todd
Haynes, a three-year starter who tossed in 14.4 points per game last season. One of the conference’s finest shooters, Haynes
will captain this year’s team.

Junior Jamie Hall will alternate between center and forward with Haynes. Hall experienced somewhat of a sophomore slump while compiling
just under 10 point and 7 rebound averages, but as Biedenbach commented, “The learning experience, coupled with off-season training, should
make the unusually quick, agile Hall the type of player Davidson fans have been waiting to see.” Cliff Tribus will
also see plenty of action at all three inside positions. The 6’10” sophomore emerged as a consistent scoring threat late
last season and his excellent touch will present matchup difficulties for opponents.

Junior transfer John Corso and junior Brian Rowan round out the front court and both will see action at small
forward. Corso played a year at the University of Florida before moving north and possesses the bulk necessary at 6’5”,
215 pounds to handle himself inside. Rowan, the best-conditioned athlete on the team, has played solid ball and started some
as a freshman. Freshman Kenny Wilson will swing between small forward and big guard. The 6’5”, 208-pound native of Hope
Mills, N.C. averaged 26.5 points and 8 rebounds his senior year and possesses the raw physical ability that the ’Cats
have lacked in past years. Biedenbach termed Wilson “one of the best players in the state.”

The backcourt finds a situation of strength in numbers. Five different players can swing to second guard, including John Carroll,
Frosh John Gullickson, Rich Wilson, Franz, and Kenny Wilson. Carroll boasts the most experience and plays excellent defense which compliments
his ball-handling skills. His offensive output left a little to be desired a year ago, but the 6’2” sophomore who
played at DeMatha High in Rockville, Maryland possesses good offensive quickness and goes to the hoop very strongly. Rich Wilson,
also a sophomore, played well as a freshman and has good size and strength at 6’6”, 198 pounds to be
effective as a swing man. Gullickson, however, could get the nod due to his shooting touch and court knowledge which
is exceptional for a freshman. Gullickson averaged 24.4 points as a high school senior with a high of 42 while
shooting 50 percent from the field.

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The women’s basketball team begins its bid for a strong winning season this Friday evening at 7:00 on the Johnston
Gym floor. The squad has been preparing for the season opener since mid-September when team members began weight training.- Another
freshman, Tea ef outs: Couch Dew ¥ ~ point and small guard. Franz Prang will see action at the thin
6’5” guard; he should be able to see over opposing defenses but probably needs a little more physical bulk to
be effective. At second guard, Biedenbach is coming from an extended fall. Sophomore Carot began regular practices this week. The
women’s team does not claim great height but will make up for that deficiency with floor and 80 percent from
the line. At the point, junior college transfer Tommy McConnell is slated for extensive duty following the graduation of Ernie
Riegel. McConnell has an uncanny ability to hit the open man and his quickness should offset his lack of size.
John Carroll will also see action at point guard. Overall, question marks remain about defensive quickness and the backcourt, but
a powerful front line paced by Rich Dibenedetto will score against any and all opponents if they receive the ball
in decent scoring position. Biedenbach is cautiously optimistic while the program seems to be heading upward after some lean years.
He guardedly commented, “The maturity of our returning players and the addition of two transfers and three freshmen should be
just enough to put new life into Davidson basketball.”

Mayes said, “I’d like to play a running game because we're small, and because we have a couple of good
outside shooters.” Sophomore Mitzi Short and senior Kirby Owen both have good shooting abilities. Freshman Debbie Hayes and Nancy Bondurant
also have good speed and conditioning. Heppner, a versatile team member, brings exceptional speed to the wing and guard positions.
Other members of the team are freshman Laura Hills, sophomores Amy Crittenburger and Cathey Morell, and juniors Barbara Hoopes and
Harriet Holshuijsen. The lady Cats will depend on a tough man-to-man defense which Mayes feels will be a surprise to
many teams in the league. Division III women’s basketball competition is extremely tough in the South. Mayes commented, “My goal
is to get the team to the level of the State tournament.” The Cats begin the season tomorrow against Barbara
Scotia College, then play a home game Tuesday against Meredith and away on Wednesday against Belmont Abbey.

Cats on both ends of routs
By CRAIG WHITE
Sports Editor

After two games, Davidson’s basketball team has tasted the sweet and the sour, as the Cats routed Wofford but were
humiliated by the speedy N.C. State Wolfpack three nights later. One of the key plays in last Friday’s 92-60 blowout
of Wofford at Johnston Gym occurred early in the second half when freshman guard John Gullickson spotted forward Richie DiBenedetto
on a long pass for a quick layup. As basic as it may seem, this play was typical of Gullickson’s
performance who, along with freshman point guard Tommy McConnell, combined to score 22 points. Shortly after the fast break play,
Gullickson and McConnell took turns in scoring on fast break layups. Between the two of them, Gullickson and McConnell tallied
seven steals with McConnell finishing with ten assists, two more assists than the entire Wofford squad mustered. Although behind 6-0
early, the Cats soon got into the flow of the game when McConnell was successful in getting the team involved
offensively. But with nine minutes left in the half, the Terriers went ahead 23-20 thus prompting Coach Biedenbach to yank
all starters except junior center Jamie Hall. It was in the second half, however, that McConnell and Gullickson perfected the
fast break scoring 16 unanswered points. Also impressive was Cliff Trubus’ team-high 16 points scored on eight of ten attempts.
Other key players included Jamie Hall and junior transfer John Corso, who both tallied 11 points. Just as easily as
Davidson handled Wofford, N.C. State rolled over the Cats 89-72 last Monday night in Raleigh. Crucial in the defeat was
the inability of the Cats to stop Wolfpack forward Art Jones who chalked up 22 points and a game-high 15
rebounds. (See Bball, page 11)

Netters optimistic with improved training
