Pere] The Thing And The Boy

March 28, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Mike Mason

There’s nothing quite like spending an afternoon traversing the endlessly seething expanse of mire and ooze by Lake Norman with
an exhilarated kid on your shoulders—especially with one who insists on halting to investigate every croak, rustle, whimper, and squeak,
in hopes of discovering “the Thing.” Apparently, the Thing has made it to the big time, the latest in elementary
school vogue. It’s talked about in every bathroom; it’s all the rage in art period. Strangely, while every self-respecting kid
claims to have beheld it under the most terrifying of circumstances (i.e., finding it slithering out of the bathtub drain
when Mom wasn’t looking), no two can agree as to its appearance. So why look for it in 5 feet
of undiluted goop, right? Wrong. To the bed I teeter, if it’s next to impossible, then it’s worth spending whole
days doing, then forgetting about. (Spelling is a good example).

Our last foray into the titillating unknown was marked by the usual verbal wandering!

From The Editor—The Davidsonian staff decided last week that The Davidsonian would not endorse any candidate for SGA president. This
decision did not, however, place restrictions on the actions of any individual on The Davidsonian staff. Tim Dwight and I,
as individuals, endorsed Robert Bowie for SGA president. At the time of our endorsement, we felt that the Bowie flyer
made it clear that our endorsements represented only our personal opinions. We apologize to anyone who may have misconstrued these
endorsements as the official endorsement of The Davidsonian.

MARK BARRETT

—Kid (upon hearing bizarre ‘gloop’, hops down and wades madly through the mud, stopping near the source of the sound):
“Aren't you coming?”
—I: “If it’s there, I don’t want to mess with it.”
—Kid (looking uncertainly at concealing shrubbery): “Well, it didn’t really sound like it anyway.”
—I: “Good observation.”
—Kid (clambering aboard sagging shoulders): “Why do you do this?”
—I: “Do what?”
—K: “Do stuff with me.”

I began thinking frantically: Ego trip? Maybe. Sincere desire to uplift the world? Fat chance. Temporary mental stoppage? Likely.

—I: “I don’t know.”
—K (upon hearing suggestive rustle, leaps off of abused shoulders and vaults across the bog): “That’s it!”
—I (upon hearing volatile sounds of destruction and mayhem emanating from behind the tree clump where said kid was last
seen): “Are you winning?”

Suddenly a mud-encrusted anthropoid appears from behind the clump.

—I (inwardly relieved at not having to kill the Thing): “What happened?”
—K: “Sometimes it wins. (snicker, snicker) Lemme up.”
—I: “Are you crazy? You’ve got leeches.”
—K: “You carried me before.”

This certainly has the ring of truth to it, and I am forced to acquiesce.

—K: “Are you going to be here next year?”
—I: “Unless they haul me off to Afghanistan.”
—K: “What’s Afghanistan?”
—I: “Afghanistan. There’s a chance I’d get drafted, but that’s unlikely.”
—K: “Drafted?”
—I: “Put in the Army.”
—K: “Do you want to go?”
—I: “I don’t know.”
—K: “Should ya’ go?”
—I: “I don’t know.”
—K: “Will you go?”
—I: “I don’t know.”
—K: “Why go?”
—I: “I don’t know.”
—K (upon hearing another suggestive rustle, launches himself towards the next objective): “That’s it! The Thing!” (He turns back) “But
when will you find out?”
—I: “What? The Thing?”
—K: “No, the answer.”
—I: “I don’t know.”
—K (charging off): “I hear it again!”

But it was yet another false alarm. And by the end of the afternoon, we still hadn’t found the Thing.
So I naturally consoled him, and we promised to find it next week. A promise I could believe, if only
I didn’t have the feeling in the back of my head that it was nearby already. I heard the vegetable
soup in Slater go “gurp” the other day, and it sounded familiar. I get the impression we are all bound
to run across it soon. How do I know? I don’t.

Mike Mason writes a fairly regular column for the Davidsonian.

SGA Does Do Something

John Jackson

My term as SGA President is now over. While I have enjoyed it immensely, I must admit that I am
ready to pass the duties on to someone with a fresher supply of energy. Before I become a has-been, however,
I would like to voice a few thoughts on Davidson’s student government. The first thing that people must realize is
that there are important things that Davidson’s SGA should...do. Perhaps large universities feel no loss if they abolish their student
government (as the University of Georgia did), but I am sure that Davidson would feel the loss of its Senate.
Our small student body, accessible faculty and administration, and the air of friendliness and common concern make Davidson a place
where the SGA can accomplish many of the things that it attempts. Our biggest project this past term was trying
to get the faculty to adopt a faculty evaluation form, which they did at their last meeting. Of course, it
would be ludicrously incorrect to say that the student government was totally responsible for the faculty’s decision, but I do
think that it’s fair to say that the SGA’s efforts contributed to the faculty’s action. Other projects that we were
involved with in the last few months were: setting up the forum on Davidson athletics; administering the student opinion poll
(and sending the results to the trustees); holding a student reception for the trustees at their February meeting; writing a
course registration booklet for incoming freshmen; offering rides to and from the airport before and after spring break; initiating the
monthly SGA Coffee and Cokes; helping with the organization of the new student radio station; organization of the Project Grant
Board (in conjunction with the Union); and playing a significant role in the upcoming SGA Weekend for high school seniors.
I am proud to say that those who accuse the Senate of being inactive are either unjustifiably cynical or badly
misinformed.

The second topic that I'd like to address concerns some of the attitudes towards the Senate and its members that
I’ve encountered. It is popular, especially around election time, for students to insist that they can handle an SGA office
simply because there is nothing to it—that the only required talent is a mastery of the English language. The fact
is, there is more to it than that. One is misleading those who might vote for him if he doesn’t
take a close look at the job and what it will require. If a person isn’t 100% committed to doing
the job right and spending the required time on it (I spent about 20 hours a week on SGA business
as President), then he has no business running for office. Take a close look at those running for office. If
a candidate thinks he can do the job simply because he can read and write, I’d suggest that you elect
him to an English department work-study job rather than to your SGA Senate.

Another sadly popular idea is that those involved in student government are only padding their resumes and egos. While I
am sure that this is the case in a few instances, my experience is that the large majority of those
involved with the SGA participate because they enjoy the work and the people they work with. If you accept the
fact that there is an important job to be done, why is it so hard to believe that there are
people who really want to do it because they enjoy the work? I promise you that there are people like
that, and it shouldn’t surprise you when they become upset or defensive when they are accused of being future Richard
Nixons who are driven only by blind ambition and a desire to have a crowded resume.

It is easy for me to believe that a person who has always been active in SGA work is running
for office because he enjoys it. I am suspicious of those who have never been involved in anything who suddenly
decide that they want to be, for example, President of the Student Body. This latter case equals much more like
“blank resume panic” than the former case. Don’t get me wrong: a person can do a good job without previous
experience, but he will be starting at a disadvantage that will take at least one school term to erase.

Finally, I want to urge everyone to help those who are elected to office. The basis is apathy. I assume
that anyone who gripes that “the SGA doesn’t do anything” has something specific in mind that he wants the SGA
to do—how can the Senate do something about the idea? The Senate does not have veto power over the faculty,
administration, or the trustees. It cannot do everything it would like to do. However, it can do a lot, and
it will do even more if you add your efforts to it.

Senior John Jackson is a former SGA President from Decatur, Georgia.
