Trustees (Continued from page 1)

chaplain. Spencer said that in the past the church shared programming costs, but the College paid the assistant minister’s entire
salary. The College is now negotiating with DCPC to finalize the job description, which must be approved by the Executive
Committee of the Board of Trustees, Spencer said. “I hope by November 1 we can be on the way to
looking for someone (to fill the position),” Dean of Students Will Terry said.

In the area of athletics, the Trustees reaffirmed a 1973 policy statement which places all Wildcat Club funds under the
jurisdiction of the Athletic Director. Fund-raising for athletics should not decrease general support of the College, the Trustees stated. Therefore,
the Wildcat Club should seek support from “non-contributors or marginal contributors” and coordinate all its fund-raising efforts with the Development
Office.

The campus Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics gave a report to the Trustee Athletic Committee about the visiting committee’s evaluation
of Davidson athletics (see The Davidsonian, Sept. 19). Council Chairman David Shi said there was “no reaction—no decision” concerning the
report, only a “very general discussion.” Spencer said the Trustee Athletic Committee will present a written report about the evaluation
when the Board next meets in February.

Shi said he thinks the Trustees will concentrate this year on fund-raising, especially on Athletic Director Eugene Bingham’s plans to
raise money for minor sports. Shi predicted no changes in “the major programs” in “the near future.”

€ vu cer gave a report to the Board on the ongoing search for a new Vice President for Development.
There is “strong feeling” among the Trustees that the new Vice President “should be an alumnus,” he said, because of
an alumnus’ “built-in commitment for and knowledge of the school.” In filling this important position, Spencer said, the Trustees agreed
that finding the “right person is more important than the time factor.”

The Development Department reported to the Trustees that the College has received $1,017,000 in gifts since the last Trustee meeting
in May. Of these, $270,000 were individual gifts, $250,000 were foundation grants, $397,000 were unit trusts and gift annuities, and
$100,000 were bequests.

Most of the other financial issues were “housekeeping resolutions,” Spencer said. For example, the Finance Committee will select a new
debt managing firm for the endowment, according to Business Manager Robert Currie. The College is seeking “a little more active
management of the debt portfolio,” Currie said.

The Trustees also heard reports on proposed curricular changes, the new computer center, and recommendations for modernization of the Biology
Department, Spencer said. Educational Policy Committee (EPC) Chairman Price Zimmermann outlined the committee’s proposals for changes in the core curriculum.
The EPC will publish its proposals next week. Director of Computer Services Robert DeSieno described his plans for the creation
of the new Davidson computer center. And Associate Dean of the Faculty Nicholas Burnett’s report on “proposed new directions in
biology” provoked some “interesting discussion” among the Trustees, according to Spencer.

Last year, an evaluation committee recommended that the department place more emphasis on molecular biology.

Games (Continued from page 10)

wright. He creates fanciful, demanding situations to which the characters must respond. He may say, “You are crossing a bridge
over the Valley of the Serpents, when it suddenly collapses, hurling you into a sea of reptilian monsters.”

The reason for the campus interest in role-playing fantasies is, according to University of Minnesota sociologist Gary Alan Fine, tied
to a desire “to move away from passive intellectual activities, notably television.” Fine spent 18 months researching D&D and four
other fantasy games, and found the appeal in the “science fiction sub-culture” was the opportunity to live out fantasies they

___Forum___ (Continued from page 1)

McAlister said Kincaid’s staff is emphasizing Martin's refusal to debate in order to “stir up some press coverage.” McKelway said
he feels students should take more interest in the race. The debate would have provided an “occasion where students would
become interested in the race and get involved,” he said.

____Rely_____ (Continued from page 1)

for Disease Control (CDC) in Atlanta. TSS, which was first identified in 1978, is causedby bacteria which collect in the
vaginal tract. A tampon, by sealing off the area, makes it more conducive to bacterial growth. CDC officials are now
working to determine if the ban on Rely should be extended to other brands or possibly to all tampons. TSS
can also be contracted by men, but such cases are rare. Anyone wanting more information can call:
— Procter and Gamble at (800) 543-0480 or
— Center for Disease Control at (404) 329-3311.

would necessitate “enormous outlays of money,” Spencer said, particularly for the purchase of equipment. Burnett will develop more detailed plans
to lay before the Trustees at a later date. Each Trustee also received a report on admissions, Spencer said, which
shows the College “running well ahead [of previous years] in terms of the number of prospects for the class of
1985.” The report was not discussed due to lack of time. The Board of Trustees will meet again on February
26 and 27.

Housing (Continued from page 6) maintain this triple room status for the remainder of the fall semester and perhaps for
the entire academic year.” And the list goes on and on.

would ordinarily experience passively. The people who participate in the games, he discovered, “tend not to be the sorority or
fraternity types. These are intense people.” Eighty-five to 95 percent of them are male because, Fine speculates, the games involve
“typical male fantasies like picking up a princess and carrying her off.” Of the simulated violence in KAOS and D&D,
he says, (Continued from page 1) Compensating for the eroding effects of inflation on salaries is largely outside the College’s
power, according to Stair, for the roots of the problem lie in the federal government's fiscal policy. What the College
must do is “find new ways to get more bang to the buck,” he said. Stair said the College also
needs to bring in more money through the Development Department. “We are concertedly seeking a vice president for development who
would give top staff leadership for the 1987 Program and development in general,” he said, referring to the search for
a successor to former Vice President for Development Duane Dittman, who resigned in July. Increases in alumni giving are ultimately
dependent upon the College’s making students aware of its needs while they are still on campus, according to Stair. “Alumni
giving begins with students,” he said, “because alumni are nothing but graduated students.”

Stair takes a wait-and-see attitude towards evaluating athletic policy. Noting that the College has a new athletic director and several
new coaches, Stair said, “let’s give the present arrangement a chance.” He described questioning of Davidson's commitment to play Division
I-AA football as untimely. Stair is eager to see the faculty's reaction to the Educational Policy Committee's forthcoming report on
academic policy. He believes periodical evaluation and reform of academics ensures the College of a “dynamic curriculum.” Stair does not
favor admitting a Davidsonian representative to Trustee meetings. Since the by-laws of the Trustees specify who is invited to meetings,
Stair said, a change in procedure would “call into question” present governance policy.

At last week’s meeting the Trustees also elected two other officers. Ben Craig, chairman of the board of Northwestern Bank,
was elected vice chairman, and Larry Dagenhart, a Charlotte attorney, was re-elected secretary. Aside from Hall, executive director of the
Presbyterian Foundation and Trustee Chairman since 1971, three other Trustees are retiring: Woodrow Seymour '33, an attorney from Sanford, North
Carolina; Blair Gwyn '33, a North Wilkesboro, North Carolina; and William Long ’49, a Presbyterian minister living in Hamlet, North
Carolina. Three new Trustees joined the Board at the meeting: Carl Horn, chairman of Duke Power and a resident of
Charlotte; Gayle Averyt, chairman of Colonial Life and Accident Insurance and a resident of Columbia, South Carolina; and John Mawhinney,
a Shell Oil executive from Houston.
