In New York primary

Carter narrowly wins with students

(CPS) President Jimmy Carter did much better among students in the New York primary than he did among the general electorate, but students, like their elders, gave Sen. Edward Kennedy a victory in the Connecticut primary held the same day.

In New York, Carter took 54 percent of the vote in selected student precincts on or near the campuses of the universities of Buffalo, Albany, and Syracuse, at Ithaca College, and Canisius, Cornell, and Colgate.

Though he won a majority of the general vote in New York, Kennedy could only manage 46 percent of the student vote, despite the absence of Gov. Edmund G. Brown from the ballot. Brown generally attempts to appeal to the same liberal vote as Kennedy.

A popular vote among New York Republicans was unavailable because ballots were cast for delegates, not candidates.

In Connecticut, Ronald Reagan won 44 percent of the Republican student vote, followed by former Ambassador George Bush and Rep. John Anderson, who virtually tied. Anderson, who did not campaign in the state, attracted about 29 percent of the vote, though most of his support came from precincts surrounding Wesleyan University in Middletown.

Sen. Kennedy attracted 50 percent of the 4328 Democratic student votes cast in selected polling places near Wesleyan, Yale, the University of Bridgeport, University of Connecticut, and Southern Connecticut.

President Carter got 41 percent of the vote, with the remainder spread among “uncommitted,” Lyndon LaRouche of the U.S. Labor Party, and Brown, who got a little more than one half of one percent of the student vote.

Democratic student voter turnout in New York was 42 percent. Thirty-seven percent of the Connecticut Democratic students voted in their primary, compared to 41 percent of the state’s Republican students.

Camp Sea Gull Counselors

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls) on the coast of North Carolina. The camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus all usual camping activities including a wide variety of major sports. Early June through mid-August. Challenging work with young people, 7-16 years of age—outdoors—enjoyable—stimulating. Qualifications include ability to instruct in one phase of the camp’s program, a genuine interest in young people, and excellent references. Quick answer upon receipt of letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in area(s) of the camp program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Director, Camp Sea Gull/Camp Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, NC 27605.

Carolyne Mas

Carolyne Mas will be the featured performer at next Friday's outdoor concert.

Tavares, Mas & Deal provide Frolic tunes

By ALLISON LEWIS
Staff Writer

No matter what your musical preferences are, the 1980 Spring Frolics concert line-up ought to accommodate your taste. Tavares, a disco and dance band, and Carolyne Mas, a rock and roller in the Bruce Springsteen tradition, will head up the concert bill. Tavares is scheduled to play in the gym Saturday night April 19 at 9:00 and Carolyne Mas will give an outdoor concert Friday afternoon April 18 on the baseball practice field at 2:00.

Bill Deal and the Rhondels, a Virginia-based beach group, and Badge, a five-piece Southern rock band from Fayetteville, will be playing back up for Tavares and Mas respectively.

The five Tavares, whose musical style contains strong roots in rhythm and blues, have produced such hits as “Heaven Must be Missing’ An Angel,” “More Than A Woman,” and “It Only Takes A Minute.”

“We like to do good music, happy music,” comments group member Ralph Tavares. “Our music reflects exactly what we do in everyday living—think positively.” The group released their ninth album, Supercharged, in February.

Carolyne Mas, featured performer of the outdoor concert, is a rich-voiced rock and roll vocalist who made the leap from relative Greenwich Village obscurity to national recognition and her first album in an amazing three months. A native New Yorker, Mas began her musical career with operatic training and playing with high school bands. Later she performed in clubs with the help of guitarist David Landau on Bleeker Street in Greenwich Village. Her style soon matured and she rapidly ascended to playing before sellout crowds. Said one “Rolling Stone” review of her first album: “The result is a likeable, unpretentious adult LP that, in its cohesive musicianship and telling detail, comes to capturing some of Springsteen's spirit instead of merely his stance.”

Bill Deal and the Rhondels from Virginia Beach will be the warm-up act for Tavares Saturday night. The band, just formed twenty years ago, was the Heritage Records #1 newcomer group of 1969 and Billboard’s #8 group the same year. With hits such as “I’ve Been Hurt,” “May I,” and “What Kind of Fool do you think I am?” Deal and the Rhondels have toured the Southeast circuit.

Badge, a Fayetteville-based down-home rock band, will open for Mas Friday afternoon.