THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, No. 10
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
December 12, 1980

$85,000 athletic budget cut confusing to faculty

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

The highly touted $85,000 Athletic budget cut, announced last spring, is now in effect. Just what this cut entails has
confused several professors, including some on the Advisory Council on Finance, which reviewed the budget.

Religion Professor Max Polley, who chaired the Finance Council last spring, said he had then been under the impression that
the current 1980-81 Athletic budget would be $85,000 less than the 1979-80 budget. Now he thinks, “It’s a misunderstanding.”

The $735,142 total budgeted for athletics for this year is almost $7,000 more than the $728,208 budgeted for 1979-80. (Budgeted
figures serve as guidelines for actual expenditures, according to Comptroller Robert Davidson, and are generally lower than actual expenditures.) Actually,
$85,000 was cut from this year’s Athletic budget, but an increase in staff compensation of about $90,000 more than offset
this cut.

“Nobody ever said that $85,000 was cut with compensation left in,” College President Samuel Spencer said. “What they cut were
items other than compensation,” Davidson said.

“In all honesty, I think it might be a misunderstanding of budgeting,” Polley said. Last spring the Finance Council in
its Recommendations to the President commended Spencer for his “proposed budget for 1980-81 which reduces the total Athletic/Physical Education Budget
by $85,000.” Spencer criticized this wording as vague and emphasized that a cut in certain expenditures does not entail a
net decrease in overall expenditures. In the same report, the Finance Council also expressed its strong support of Spencer’s recommendation
of a 12.5% increase in faculty and staff compensation. It was precisely this pay hike that caused the current Athletics
budget to increase overall despite the $85,000 cut.

Polley thinks it was an oversight — “the fault of our committee” — that the Finance Council did not take
the pay hike into account and anticipate the overall budget increase. Physics Pro- (See Budget, page 11)

Shikunga School’s new cistern gets some final touches. (Courtesy of Dave Keller)

WDSR back on the air and growing

By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

WDSR, Davidson’s student-run radio station, will resume broadcasting this Monday after having stopped for Thanksgiving break. Students can listen to
WDSR from 7 a.m. to midnight daily. Currently, WDSR primarily broadcasts a variety of music, from jazz to New Wave,
as well as brief campus announcements. In the future, WDSR plans to expand its news and editorial staffs and to
air news programs and radio shows, according to Programming Director Will Berson.

Once every two weeks beginning December 12, WDSR will broadcast a “Profile in Rock,” Berson added. The first show of
the series will feature The Who. WDSR is also planning to distribute profiles of the disc jockeys and their musical
tastes so that listeners will know what type of programs to expect at certain times.

Berson explained that WDSR is continually in need of albums. Record services that provide albums to most radio stations do
not send records to carrier current stations such as WDSR. The station now has a “rotating library,” Berson said. Each
disc jockey lends five albums per week, with an additional twenty albums coming from WDAV. There are about twenty disc
jockeys on the WDSR staff. The station could use a few more disc jockeys, Berson said.

Davidsonian election battle

By RICK JENKINS
Opinions Editor

For the first time in the history of The Davidsonian, the candidates for election to the editorship are running as
teams. Juniors Jean Soracco and Bill Purcell comprise one team; sophomore Elizabeth Kiss and junior John Siman the other. The
editorship will be decided this Tuesday, December 16, in a campus-wide election.

The Davidsonian interviewed all four candidates together, and decided on a question-answer format for the following article because it presupposes
the greatest amount of objectivity. Siman plans to participate in Davidson’s Classics Abroad program this spring, and Kiss will be
JYA next year; therefore, if elected, they would actually serve together for only a major problem for the station has
been poor reception. Since WDSR broadcasts are carried through the dorms’ electrical systems, dormsWith poor wiring, such as Watts and
one-half of Sentelle, do not receive WNSR well. (See WDSR, page 11)

The seven weeks that remain in winter term once they take office after Christmas break.

Q. Why do you think a team of two editors, as opposed to a single editor, will better manage the
job?

A. Soracco: With two, you can coordinate together. You’re there to sort of catch each other’s mistakes. You produce a
more unified effort, I think.

Siman: I think normally a team is not as good as one person because The Davidsonian needs one policy and
a direction that can be provided by one person. I think Elizabeth and I are an exception to this, however,
because we work together as well as any two people possibly can. We more or less think as one person.
It’s an exceptional relationship; I think we’d work fine together.

Q. Could each of you please describe the qualifications you think you have for the job? Do you believe that
previous experience with The Davidsonian is a prime necessity?

Purcell: I think it’s obvious that both of us have limited experience on The Davidsonian. I was assistant photography editor
at one time. Both of us were editors of high school newspapers.

Soracco: I’ve worked with features since my first week on campus; I was assistant features editor the second half of
my freshman year and later that spring moved into the features editorship and continued with that up until last Christmas.
I’ve been doing Backpage since then.

Purcell: We offer a special kind of experience; we have a lot of Davidson experience. Both of us have been
extremely active on campus. I think this is as important, even more important than actual experience with The Davidsonian, because
we don’t want to duplicate what’s been done in the past. We want to bring in a new paper with
a new approach to things.

Kiss: I edited a magazine in my high school, and as far as Davidsonian experience goes, I think I have
as much as I could possibly have at this point. I became assistant news editor fall term freshman year and
have been News Editor since January. I think the news editorship gives you a lot of the qualifications necessary for
becoming Editor. As News Editors, John and I have managed a staff of twenty writers; we've written generally one piece
of the larger, Focus, articles. I would disagree with the idea that it’s not that important to have specific Davidsonian
experience.

(See Davidsonian, page 2)

---

Christmas Gift Fund to support Kenyan schools

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Third World aid—the phrase evokes images of Red Cross tents, mud huts, and emaciated children. But this year’s campus Christmas
Gift Fund will go to quite a different kind of third world aid. The $7000 drive, to be held next
Monday through Wednesday, will support what Experiential Programs Director Ken Wood calls “our Kenya Connection.”

Since 1974, about 25 Davidson students and alumni have gone to Kenya to serve one or more years as teachers
and headmasters in rural secondary schools. Right now, Kathy Ansheles, '80, Kathy Daum, ’79, Mike McGrady, ’80, Andy Miller, ’80,
and Ann Tutwiler, ’80, are in Kenya. The volunteers work through a variety of connections—the Quaker church, a professor at
the University of Nairobi, individual schools. They receive wages from the school where they teach, with pay ranging from the
state level salaries at a government-supported institution to “chickens, roots, herbs, and cash” at some smaller schools.

The students face responsibilities startlingly different from their lives at Davidson. Dave Keller '78, who was headmaster of Shikunga School
from Nov-

(See Kenya, page 8)

---

Phonathon successful

By ANN MITCHELL
Staff Writer

The SGA Telephonathon, which ends Thursday night, had raised $36,711.60 as of Tuesday evening. The Telephonathon is a student effort
to contribute as much as possible to a $100,000 challenge grant by the Charles A. Dana Foundation to the Living
Endowment Fund. The College must raise at least $100,000 to receive the $100,000 grant. The Dana Foundation will match contributions
of previous donors one to one, and new

(See Phonathon, page 11)
