THE DAVIDSONIAN - Founded 1914

‘Keen Jean’ Revisited

The current procedure of electing students to the Hearing Committee (Honor Council) tugs candidates towards imbecility, insults voters, and enfeebles the Honor Code it purports to perpetuate. A stroll through the dormitory halls this week was a depressing experience. “Vote for Bob, he’s no slob;” “We need Jean, she’s real keen.” And for those not drawn to pithy mottos, there was the time-honored standby: “Vote for Joe Student, Freshman for Hearing Committee”... “Vote for Jane Student, Sophomore for Hearing Committee”... “Vote for Jim Student, Junior for Hearing Committee”... We exaggerate, perhaps, but not by much. Candidates stick platforms onto the doors of the johns. One john looks like another. One platform looks like another.

“The Honor Code is Davidson's most precious institution, a cornerstone of the unique sense of community we all enjoy. I am an honest, fair-minded student. Elect me to the Hearing Committee and I will defend our Honor Code.” Daft slogans are scrawled on poster-board and pasted on the walls. They fall and are trampled on. Election day comes, the vote is cast, some hopefuls win. Good sense and the Honor Code lose. Davidson’s most cherished institution deserves better treatment.

The current selection process is unfair to the candidates: while popular, well-known students need only post their names to win, lesser-knowns, desperately seeking name identity, must embrace tacky slogans. Platform originality is almost impossible. The current selection process is unfair to the voters, who have little substantive information on which to make an intelligent decision. The current selection process is unfair to the Honor Code itself. At a time when some claim that the Code is crumbling away, we hasten its demise by electing its defenders in a circus-sideshow atmosphere. We ask the Hearing Committee and the SGA to spare us from Bob Slob and Keen Jean and Joe, Jim, and Jane Student. Work together to give us a new, more sensible Hearing Committee selection process.

Philip Duncan in The Davidsonian, December 15, 1978.

Unfortunately, the situation remains basically the same. Just yesterday afternoon we saw a poster proclaiming that a candidate was in favor of honesty. While we are not questioning the candidate’s sincerity, we must doubt if honesty will be a hotly disputed issue in the coming election. The statement contributes nothing to one’s knowledge of this candidate. The only way a student can vote intelligently in an Honor Council election is by knowing all of the candidates involved personally. Qualities like honesty, sound judgment, and strong character are obviously among the most desirable in an Honor Council member. The degree to which a candidate has these attributes cannot be conveyed by a poster, and it would be very unfair and impractical to expect every student to meet each candidate.

Yet it doesn’t seem too much to ask that the members of the old Honor Council, or Student Conduct Council and Honor Council members together, interview each of the candidates and select the Council’s new members themselves. (Those members running for re-election would not, of course, make decisions on their opponents.) A panel of Student Conduct Council and Honor Council members already interviews each possible candidate and must give its approval before any hopeful is allowed to run. The current Honor Council selection process serves no one well—voter or candidate. We hope that the SGA and the Honor Council will work together to establish a new process. The selection decisions should be made by a well-informed committee, not blamelessly ignorant voters.

Mark Barrett

THE CHARIONE NOS
College Press Service

The Campus Forum

Permission Not Granted

To the Editor:

Concerning Robert Bowie’s campaign letter distributed last Monday (March 24, 1980), it has come to our attention that there was a flagrant misuse of the names of endorsement. Although our names were listed among those endorsing Bowie, we were not asked if our names could be used, nor did we give permission for such use. We have nothing against Mr. Bowie but we do not stand behind many of the issues in his platform, and we resent the public use of our names in such a manner.

Warren Overbey ‘82
Bruce Wallace ‘82

An Apology

To the Editor:

The Robert T. Bowie for SGA President Committee would like to extend its sincerest apologies to Messrs. Warren Overbey and BruceWallace. Their names were listed on one of our flyers as supporters of the Bowie campaign. We made the unfortunate assumption that their private endorsements of Mr. Bowie warranted our using their names on the flyer. This was a mistake. Again, we wish to apologize for our error and we hope no feelings or careers have been hurt.

G. Martin Hunter ’80
Harold A. Lloyd ’81
Members, Bowie for SGA Committee

Baseball GPA

To the Editor:

We are writing concerning the publication of the sports teams’ grade point averages in a recent Davidsonian. Upon reading what seemed to be the greatly mistaken team GPA of the baseball squad, several of us inquired into how the SGA committee came up with their figures. At first, we got conflicting reports about how it was done, but eventually, we were told that the fall term GPAs of all those people who tried out for the team were averaged to come up with the 2.61 GPA that was reported. We’re not sure they figured this right, but at any rate, it should be noted that many of these people who tried out didn’t even make the team. This fact renders the SGA finding unviable.

We also contend that figuring the GPAs from a single term is not indicative of a whole lot. If we may be allowed a little editorial ripple, it seems the SGA’s methods were ridiculous, and possibly bordering on the farcical. We would like to state some facts concerning our GPAs that are figured out correctly and include only people on the team. First of all, the average GPA for the team this winter was 3.21. Three members of the team got 4.0 averages this winter. Furthermore, only 5 team members got below 3.0. If you take the 5 who got below 3.0 out of the average, the average comes to over 3.6. We just wanted to straighten a few things out and suggest to the SGA that they ought to do things right when they do them.

John Haskell ‘81
Bob Barnes ‘83
Blaine Sanders ‘81
Allen Griffin ‘82
Jeff Ray ‘81
Jonathan Young ‘81

Libertarians

To the Editor:

This letter contains both a complaint and an announcement. First, the complaint: The Davidsonian’s failure to cover the Forum held here recently for the Libertarian Party Candidates of North Carolina was extremely regrettable. Attendance of this important event, though very good, was hurt by The Davidsonian’s inexcusable neglect. Presentations were given at the Forum by Rick Pasatto, candidate for the Senate, and Bob Emory, candidate for governor of N.C. Both will soon be on the ballot in this area. For this reason, if no other, their views should be of interest to Davidson students. Pasatto voiced strong opposition to the draft and spoke about the role of Libertarianism on the national scene, the inadequacy of Carter’s so-called anti-inflation policy, and the need for a non-interventionist foreign policy. Emory addressed more local issues: the need for a major cut of regulations and taxes on food production and distribution in N.C., the scandalous excesses of the Milk Commission, and the need for overall reduction of state programs and taxes.

Libertarians promote individual freedom, a free-market economy, and a non-interventionist, non-militaristic foreign policy. We are all vehemently opposed to the resumption of registration and the draft, which we consider to be a gross form of involuntary servitude and an immoral and unconstitutional violation of individual rights.

Now for the announcement: Ed Clark, Libertarian Candidate for President of the United States, will visit Davidson on Friday, April 11 and speak at 10 a.m. in the Chambers Gallery. Clark — known as “The Eminently Reasonable Radical” — has a degree from Harvard. He received nearly 400,000 votes in the 1978 race for governor of California. Over the past seven years, the Libertarian Party has experienced a surge in popular support and national recognition.

Marlin Geiger '80

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.