6—The Davidsonian—October 17, 1980

JYA brings out strengths of both Davidson and the individual student

By GLENN KELLUM
Features Editor

I was told the other day by a former JYAer that American beer is really bad, only I was told in a bit more interesting fashion. Actually, I think most American beers are pretty good (I’ve tried them all), and this fellow must have been either nuts or a teetotaler. He’s not a teetotaler. Funny thing, he’s not nuts either, at least he convinced me he’s not. The real beer is not here in the U.S., but somewhere off to our east a few miles—somewhere in the vicinity of France or Germany or maybe England. Try it yourself, he said. Take a year off from the uncomfortable life of academic Davidson. Visit a European country. You may find some really bad beers, sure. But, you’ll also run across some of the best beers east of Tulsa. Hand me another Pabst, Donnie. Tell me more.

As we listened to some pretty uncouth American music, Donnie Caldwell told me a lot of things that sounded fun, interesting, and even important. I was sitting in an apartment which was a little cluttered. Scattered around the apartment were some uninviting livres (I'm told livre is French for book, but it sounds to me like something I’d eat with onions). The walls were plastered with a bunch of foreign posters, and a few wine bottles awaited their trip to the dumpster. I asked him how he could stand to live in such a choked place? Donnie looked around slowly as if he had never noticed the mess. “Look,” he began, “when you have only bread, wine, and cheese for days and days and your body smells like garbage, your understanding of life’s necessities becomes restricted. All you really learn to want is three meals per day and a flat place to sleep.”

What about Button-downs and Topsiders, Donnie? He just looked at me.

Let me explain a few things. Donnie traveled a lot last year around Europe. (You learn to hate train stations, he tells me). The travel was not something he did all year, but only during breaks from school. School? You must mean JYA. Junior Year Abroad is what JYA is spelled out. A good many went abroad last year, and returned to hopefully be seniors this year. I was here all last year, by the way, and I hope I’m a senior too.

What I really wanted Donnie to tell me about was Davidson. Davidson? Wasn’t Donnie in France? Sure, I wanted to hear what a Frenchman had to say about Davidson: Well, a surrogate Frenchman. I wanted to hear this “Frenchman” say that Davidson is great. We all like to be the good end of a comparison. The British do it too, Dave Webb tells me. Dave, who was in England last year, said, “Englishmen all think their institutions are infinitely superior to American schools.”

Getting back to our “Frenchman.” “It’s very easy,” Donnie said, “to come back and see Davidson’s deficiencies, which we all know are numerous, but to come back from a year abroad without understanding some of Davidson’s strengths is to take a biased view. Maybe there aren’t any cafes in Davidson, but there aren’t any band parties in Montpellier.” Montpellier is the home of Davidson's JYA program in France.

For some reason, I thought I was shelling out big bucks to really get educated here at Davidson, and here’s this guy telling me it’s not so? “No, no, no, you’ve missed my point,” Donnie said. “People leave Davidson with a good solid education in a bookish sense, but on the other hand, I don't know if people really know how truly vast the world is.” For example, “Not everybody speaks English, and not everybody is a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant, and not everybody is a Milton Friedman capitalist.” Of course, I already knew that, but at least he made his point. “In a four-year college like Davidson, the range of education is very narrow. The fact that JYA exists is an attempt to overcome the narrowness of the four-year program,” he said.

I realize all those returning from JYA look pretty much the same as before, Donnie, but do you think differently now? “Well,” he said, “JYA puts you at times in unfamiliar situations and quite often you’re alone. You soon learn you can take care of yourself.”You can communicate in another language. You can manage to hitchhike from the south of France to Istanbul! If someone had told me sophomore year about all the things I'd be doing while abroad, I wouldn’t have believed that I ever would or could. I think I’m a lot less afraid of making decisions in my life now than before I left.

Do you feel like you’ve lost touch with Davidson?

“Not at all. Some people have come back in the past and have lost interest in the campus altogether. They have become indifferent. They felt like a year abroad made them more educated than the rest of the student body. I feel this is entirely the wrong attitude. Those people, because they’ve been exposed to another culture for a year, should feel obligated to give even more of themselves to let others share in what they’ve learned.”

That was about the end of the conversation with Donnie. I thanked him for the beer. I decided I needed to talk with some of the others who were abroad last year. So the next day found me with a cup of coffee and five former JYAers eager to oust the monopoly Donnie’s opinions have had in this article. The scene? The snack bar, of course. Not very original, I'll admit, but I’m not one of those gifted JYAers returned home.

Dave Webb was talking about the way the British think their institutions are “infinitely superior.” “But that’s just not true,” Dave said, “Davidson is academically much better.”

Tell me then, why did you go away for a year? Was it to just escape from Davidson for a year?

Dave nodded vigorously. “I see now that my year in England was a way of stepping back from Davidson. Last year gave me a chance to decide what’s valuable and not valuable. I realize now that I shouldn’t expect Davidson to solve all my problems.”

Nelson Simon, who was also in England, said, “When I was a freshman here, I was told Davidson's isolation is a good thing. But I don’t see four years in one place as a growing thing. There’s no way to achieve an adequate perspective while at Davidson.”

Cathy Hemenway, also in England last year, agreed. “Leaving Davidson for a year,” she said, “is sort of like Thoreau when he left Concord to look at himself. You learn to look at what you believe and ask yourself whether these are really your ideas and not your parent’s or your country’s.

“A year in England was, for me, like a rite of passage,” Dave said.

That's great, but tell me how does this relate to Davidson, I asked.

“Well, I came back asking myself things like, ‘Is it right to study nine hours per day?’ I’ve learned to evaluate the educational system here from a different and perhaps better perspective,” Cathy said.

I'm sorry to end it all here, kids, but I must go type all this up before I forget everything.

---

Personality dominates Gertrude Stein

By JEFF HERRIN
Features Editor

Pat Carroll will be on campus Monday evening to present what the New York Times called “one of the ten best theatrical events of the year.” Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein promises to be one of the best Artist Series performances of the season, a one-character show that presents the many aspects of (who else?) Gertrude Stein.

Written by Marty Martin, though conceived of by Pat Carroll herself, Gertrude Stein is more exciting than the dull label “monologue” can communicate. Set in Gertrude Stein’s apartment at 27 Rue de Fleurus in Paris, the play takes place on the eve of Stein’s eviction, and her preference is to talk rather than pack. The script contains no long-winded soliloquies, nor any direct quotes at all. The idea is to convey Stein’s personality and her impact on the people and cultural development of her time. She talks of her intimate associates: Picasso, Matisse, Renoir, Hemingway, Fitzgerald.

Pat Carroll fills the part magnificently, as she designed the part from extensive readings in Stein’s work. She searched out a writer, producer, and director, and was heavily involved in the development of the finished product. This promises to be something different indeed.

This will be the second Artist Series performance of the season: October 20 at 8:15 in Love Auditorium. Tickets are still available in the Union ticket office (Mon.-Fri., 2-5 p.m. or call 892-2000, ext. 135).