(Continued from page 1)

clergy.

Income from Auxiliary Enterprises

The income from auxiliary enterprises is almost an extension of tuition and fees. Most of the money comes directly from
students: Davidson and Currie agree the figure is “over 85 percent.” Auxiliary enterprises include the dormitories, the student store, the
laundry, the Patterson Court eating houses, Carnegie Guest House, and a few smaller operations. They account for 19 percent of
the operating budget, but Davidson describes them primarily as “break even” propositions. The portion of the income from auxiliary enterprises
not provided by students comes from, for example, visitors and College staff who buy things at the student store, guests
at Carnegie, and outsiders who use the laundry service.

Income from Government Sources

Davidson students received $176,000 worth of government aid in 1979-80, which represents about 1.5 percent of the operating budget. These
funds are not solicited by the College, but are normally paid directly to students’ accounts to supplement their tuition and
fees.

Income from Gifts and Private Grants

Davidson received $1.53 million in gifts in 1979-80, or enough to finance about 13 percent of the operating budget, according
to Davidson. Though fees from students and income from endowments and trusts are guaranteed at the start of each fiscal
year, the College must constantly solicit gifts. Director of Corporate Development Mike Daisley described this fundraising process as one of
“filling in the cracks” between the more assured income sources. He said the percentage of the College income that gifts
and private grants provide “is the difference between a mediocre year...and a really great year.”

Alumni and charitable foundations are the two largest sources of gifts. According to Davidson, alumni gave $491,000 of the $1.53
million total in 1979-80, and foundations gave $513,000. Friends of the College, students’ parents, churches, and corporations also gave significant
amounts. Compared to some other liberal arts colleges, especially ones in the Northeast, a very low percentage of Davidson alumni
give to the College. Melton restated the Development Department’s present efforts of making “a major step forward to increase the
percentage participation by alumni—and the dollar gifts.” He surmised that few alumni give because there is no strong “tradition” of
such support, then jokingly added that as students, alumni were imbued with a spirit of “God would provide for Davidson.”
Unfortunately, gifts from churches have not kept pace with inflation, Melton and Davidson said.

Income from Trusts

Trust income comes from about fifteen different funds that the College neither owns nor controls, but which by legal agreement
provide the College with yearly income. According to Davidson, the largest of these trusts is the Duke Endowment, which generated
84% of the College’s 1980 trust income of $993,000. Since this trust was set up in 1925, it has provided
the College with yearly returns totaling $20 million, Davidson said.

Income from Endowments

Like trusts, endowments provide the College with annual returns on funds that are permanently invested. Melton compared them to an
individual’s establishing a savings account and then never touching the principal while constantly using the interest. Unlike trusts, the College
itself determines how to invest its endowment. The object is to seek the investments that maximize the endowment’s yield. Last
year, according to Davidson, the College’s endowment produced seven and a half to eight percent in interest and dividends. This
figure is lower than the rate of return one could get from a bank (around 12 percent) because the College
must maximize the endowment’s growth as well as its annual return, Davidson said. Thus, total yield on the endowment last
year was around 17.7 percent because the endowment increased substantially in market value. Melton explained that it would be “at
the expense of the next generation of students” if the College maximized annual income from interest and dividends to the
neglect of the growth of the endowment itself. Because of inflation, return on the endowment decreases in the long run
unless the College ensures that the endowment constantly increases in market value. For example, Melton said, a $100,000 endowment established
in 1970 would be worth only half that amount today (in constant dollars) if the College made no provisions for
its growth. According to Davidson, the endowment provided $1.47 million or 12.4% of the College’s 1979-80 operating budget. He said
the size of the endowment puts the College “in good shape.” Melton, however, said that while the College’s endowment is
high compared to other Southern liberal arts schools, it “is low compared to the kind of colleges we like to
compare ourselves with.”

(Continued from page 1)

The common figure of comparison is endowment per student, which is determined by the market value of a college’s total
endowment divided by the college’s enrollment. In a study completed by former Director of Development Duane Dittman in 1978, Davidson’s
$20.48 million endowment divided by 1356 students yielded an endowment per student of $15,174. Melton pointed out that schools like
Williams and Swarthmore doubled our endowment. According to Dittman’s study, Swarthmore had an endowment per student of $52,177 and Williams
of $37,195. Emphasis on increasing the endowment is forthcoming. “We have not yet gotten into the phase of the 1987
Program in which we are asking everyone for capital funds (i.e., funds added to the endowment),” Melton said. “We are
still asking for annual gifts i.e., funds added to gifts and private grants and spent in the operating budget.”

Other Income

The College keeps less than $8000 in cash on hand though accounts payable exceed $500,000, according to the College’s 1979
Balance Sheet. Davidson explained that the rest of the cash the College needs to meet its obligations is invested on
a short-term basis—for example, in revolving notes that allow liquidation on an almost daily basis. “We try to keep [our
funds] invested until the moment we need them,” Davidson said. Such short-term investments provided $445,000 in income in 1979-80 or
almost four percent of the operating budget, Davidson said.said. Just to Keep the Lights On

All these sources of income cover day-to-day operating expenses. The College also has a multi-million dollar Physical Plant fund that
requires financing. The College is now constructing a Commons with an estimated $3.6 million price tag and two new dorms
estimated at $1.2 million apiece, Davidson said. The College relies primarily on very large gifts to finance such projects, Melton
said.

—Fundraiser— (Continued from page 1)

The number of alumni from these classes who give is very low, according to Waddill. Corporate Development Director Mike Daisley
said only 27.3% of the members of the classes of 1971 to 1979 contributed to the Living Endowment fund last
year. Daisley said he expects the level of participation to rise to 40% because of the Telephonathon.

The classes of 1971 to 1980 are also suitable for the Telephonathon, Waddill said, because it is easier for students
to establish a rapport with younger alumni. Also, recent alumni are more likely to respond to a phone call than
to a letter from the Development Department, Daisley said.

The Telephonathon will run from Tuesday through Thursday the first week after Thanksgiving break and from Sunday through Thursday the
second week. There will be 20 to 30 telephones set up in the College Union, Daisley said. Each night, a
new group of students will be treated to dinner by the College, trained, and given lists of alumni to call.
Calling sessions, including the dinner and training, will run from 6:00 to 9:30 each night. The Telephonathon will probably reach
almost 3200 alumni, Daisley said, depending on how many have already contributed to the Living Endowment.

Humanities

Lynda Suther of the Admissions Department explained that the College has in the past occasionally sent brochures describing the Humanities
program to all prospective students. Primarily, however, the brochures are sent only to those students who indicate an interest in
Humanities on their information card. In the future, Rhodes said, the information will “make it clear to students that there
is no guarantee that they will get in.” Enrollment should remain on a first-come, first-serve basis, regardless of the demand,
according to Rhodes and Polley.

There are obvious limitations on the expansion of the Humanities program, such as the size of Perkins auditorium, which, Rhodes
said, is filled to capacity by this year’s freshman group. The “key issue,” however, is staffing, Rhodes said. According to
Religion Professor David Kaylor, “it is increasingly difficult to fill spaces.” Recently the College has placed an increasing number of
newly hired faculty members in the program. English Professor Cynthia Lewis, for example, said she was asked whether she was
interested in teaching Humanities at her first meeting with Davidson representatives. These new professors are “hired to serve in the
Humanities department as much as in their own discipline,” second-year Chairman Samuel Maloney said.

Professionally, however, teaching Humanities is not advantageous for the new faculty member, according to Physics Professor Robert Manning. “It’s a
half-time commitment to learning other people’s disciplines,” Manning said. “Tenure and advancement at Davidson are increasingly based on publication in
your discipline and you don't get an opportunity for that in Humes.”

Polley agreed. “A young faculty member must have an assurance from the Administration that their good teaching in Humes will
be rewarded with tenure.” Rhodes said that the Administration has never asked him to systematically evaluate his teaching staff, although
there have been “informal” requests for information about teaching performance from other department chairmen and administrations. Assurance that work in
the program is given weight in tenure decisions is especially important because “teaching in Humes does not make one marketable
elsewhere,” Kaylor said. Teaching Humanities, Manning said, “is as much of a commitment to the institution as tenure is to
you. I don't think first-year faculty members are prepared to make that decision this early in their career.”

Putting first-year professors in Humanities is “not helpful to the program,” either, Manning said. “It takes a good deal of
time to learn to teach in an interdisciplinary course,” Manning said, adding, “to continue to hire people on a one-shot
basis is a poor way to staff a popular and important program.” Maloney agreed that it would be preferable for
a faculty member to gain a few years’ experience before teaching Humanities but added, “that is a luxury we can’t
afford in manning the program.”

Pulling present faculty members into the program is even more difficult. “There are some excellent professors at Davidson who don’t
care for such a type of educational endeavor,” Rhodes said. Departments are also reluctant to “sacrifice a faculty member to
Humanities,” Polley said. “Departments must be persuaded of the importance of the Humes program. I think this is an Administration
responsibility.”

Simple arithmetic is another reason for the difficulty in getting faculty members to switch to Humanities, History Professor Peter Krentz
said. “If someone is teaching a course with a ceiling of 30 and drops it to go to Humes—with an
18-member discussion group—that’s 12 students looking for a course.”

In the final analysis, the question is: is the Humanities program worth all the trouble? “It's the best of its
kind I’ve ever seen,” Lewis said. Ideally, it provides students and faculty with an opportunity to broaden their perspective. “In
an undergraduate college, the relationship of disciplines is at least as important as the details of a particular discipline,” Manning
explained.

“The program has its obvious drawbacks. We’re all frustrated by having to go over so much material so quickly,” Maloney
said. Kaylor added, “There is a disadvantage in non-experts teaching the material.” “Inevitably it is somewhat superficial,” Krentz said, “and
the biggest danger is students thinking they know more in the end than they really do.”

Students themselves have responded favorably to the program, with over 93% of those polled in 1973 indicating they would recommend
the program to others and would take it again if given the opportunity. The basic goal of Humanities, some would
say, is impossible. But that is no reason, Krentz concluded, to “quit trying.”
