10—The Davidsonian—February 8, 1980

Bonehead and the Brick Brothers offer
By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Welcome to yet another week of Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. This column is designed to offend you, your mama,
and the sensitivities of the Mongolian Gurus in Japan. Cave Canem.

This week we will change our purpose and bring the freshmen an informative, parti-colored, many-hued, iridescent, escadrille report on self-selection.
And now, for the B&BB Guide to Self-Selection.

PiKA—also the name of a new calculator from Texas Instruments. This group claims to have the highest GPA on campus
next to the trio of Joby, Hill Stockton, and Robert the Janitor. Good choice for future salesmen and cooks. Those
hotdogs are delicious! Celebrating 110th Anniversary with a Hiroshima and Nagasaki Party.

ETC—better known as SPETC. Stump eats there. Good place to go if you like lots of room to dance at
discos. Parties are as well attended as Sam Spencer’s open forums. Ranked number one last year as third choice selection.

F&M—inhabited by FIGIs and other Bruce Springsteen groupies along with their girlfriends. Drug addict Bob Trobich and his concupiscent wife
are card-carrying members. Pride and joy is the “beer box.” We noticed that the same keg has been on tap
since September now that Hiner Hamrick is living off campus. For you overweight, corpulent, portly, greasy, unctuous slobs, we will
mention that this place prides itself in having good meat.

Phi Delt—calmest house on the court fall term. After the Forman game all wimps should beware of certain animals huddled
around the keg and foaming at their mouths. If you wish to meet the lovely waitresses from What-a-burger then attend
the Toga Party in the Spring. They will be the ones with the athletic ability to play football.

SAE—average brother's father makes $186,000 per month. Most of this goes to pay for new furniture, new lions, and new
jock straps for Pat Sheridan. Slate for new offices is Reed Ellis (Pres.), John Thompson (Social Chairman), and Reverend Ike
(Pledge Trainer). Sam Outen wins the Wilmot Brotherhood Award. Definitely the place to shotgun without oral encouragement. Right Knox?

ATO—strongest national fraternity on the court. This group prides itself in diversity. Actually, they are all just weirdos. Actively rushed
Jon Lowry, who looks more like Jim Kuster than Mike McGrady. Best Jonestown Party of the year. Love that grape
Kool-Aid. Flex Alexander (Hooper) was the only person actively discouraged by John Turnburke who physically abused him with a wet
noodle.

Emanon—No name spelled backwards is a truly appropriate epithet. Home of the earthmen and notorious Pat Jenevein baiter Jeff Harris.
FIJI drug distribution center run by agents disguised as DCF leaders. Want to make a dead baby float? Go down
to Emanon with two dead babies and they'll supply the ice cream. Remember, BYOB.

PAX—Staunch supporters of new self-selection guidelines when they discovered that Joe Ferraro shotgunned. Jim Kuster displays Minimum Sex.

BECOME A LAWYER'S ASSISTANT.
© Program approved by American Bar Association.
© Day or Evening classes available.
© Employment assistance.

A Representative from The National Center for Paralegal Training's Lawyer's Assistant Program will be on campus on Tuesday, Feb. 26,
from 1:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. at the Placement Office to meet interested students. For more information contact the Placement
Office or The National Center for Paralegal Training, 3376 Peachtree Road, NE, Suite 430.

SPRING DAY Feb. 11 - May 9
SPRING EVE June 12 - Sept. 9
SUMMER DAY Sept. 16 - Dec.16 _ March 16 - Sept. 20

THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR PARALEGAL TRAINING
3376 Peachtree Rd., NE
Atlanta, Ga. 30326
404/266-1060

Atlanta, Georgia 30326, (404) 266-1060.

Please send me information about a career as a lawyer.
State _____ Zip _____

FALL DAY
FALL EVE
Oct. 21 - May 9

Down to this place and you will find fifteen girls huddled around the peanut butter and sixty swimmers eating three
spring chickens apiece. Rusk—home of the 170-190 pound field hockey players. Wanted by the IRS for not reporting windfall profits.
The preppiest sorority in the Carolinas nipping the TAR Heel Tri Delts by three add-a-beads and two penny loafers. Rob
Fields no longer eats here. KA—Breeding grounds for Wildcat cheerleaders. Especially cheerleader Hill Stockton who sprained his ankle after leaving
his faucet turned on Saturday night. Home of Randy “Govols” Haynes, charter member of the Disco Dave Shi fan club.
Half the house went JYA last year and are now senior year away from KA. Go by and visit Rob
and John and take their phone book at 7 am. Right, Fess!

Richards and Bailey—hope you enjoyed it this year. Half of you will be there next year. Now for the sports.
The regular season games are drawing to a close and our preseason predictions remain correct. Number one ranked Rear Entries
showed that they are a team to be feared as their competition failed to show. In other important games, the
Brick Layers were downed by We Know We're Peripatetic 67-63. It was Cool Breeze 88... B.F. Deal 52. In the
twilight doubleheader, it was Corpus Cavernosum 90-50 over Airborne. Hurtin for Certin beat OSFD 49-40 and the Kiwis pied on
Blue Jazz 46-44. In other action, Twice as Nice pressed the Ka-o-las 32-20 and On the Ball rounded Third Herd
38-29. Ann Clark had 20 for the Palace team. Two final scores that have just come in from the West
Coast: Bong Water Enema 47 to Zaloe’s Canoes 37. The Brick Layers downed Sweet Ebony 58-38. We'll be back in
a minute with some final comments.

In summary, if you are young and female and need someone to talk to then go by Watts 109 and
ask for Charlie Pearson. Tell him that Jim Haynes sent you. Later.

Now the Top Ten—
1. Fido and the Rear Entries
2. Cool Breeze
3. Twice as Nice
4. We Know We're Peripatetic
5. Bricklayers
6. Corpus Cavernosum
7. Guns of Navarone
8. Hurtin’ 4 Certin
9. Old Men
10. True Grits

The city game survives even at Davidson. Jeff Kane shoots a jumper. (Trey Thies)

Because there’s a two-year Army ROTC program, in case you missed taking ROTC in your first two years of college.
You'll have to work to catch up during the summer before your junior year. But in two years you'll earn
about $2,900, more than half of which is tax-free. Then you'll earn an officer’s commission at the same time you
earn a college degree. But mail the coupon now. Because by the time you're a junior, it'll be too late.

ARMY ROTC
Box 368
Davidson, NC 28036

Please send me more information about the Army ROTC.

Mr. _____
Address _____
City _____ County _____
State _____ Zip _____ Phone _____

The Army ROTC Two-Year Program.
