8—The Davidsonian—December 5, 1980

Sports: Junior quarterback Brian Whitmire will be a key returnee next year. (Communications Department)

Farrell expects better ‘81 football season
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Although the Davidson football season might have been called “Great Expectations” before it started, by the time it was over
it could have been coined “The Davidson .500.” Injuries and inconsistency plagued the team as it finished 5-5. Coach Ed
Farrell, looking at the schedule during the preseason, “didn’t think there was anyone on the schedule we couldn’t beat.” That
is not to say that he expected a 10-0 season, but he expected better. For instance, the Wildcats shocked Bucknell;
in later games, Bucknell whipped Boston University, yet BU easily handled Davidson. Although Farrell’s and anyone else’s preseason predictions did
not include an undefeated season, there was general agreement that Davidson would enjoy a superlative season of 8-2 or thereabouts.
So what happened? Well, most people look to the injury lists. That roster included star senior running back Alvin Atkinson
and highly-rated senior receiver Gifford.

BB&DB make stunning transition to bball
By the BRICK BROTHERS and the DOUGHBOYS

Welcome back to winter term. It’s basketball season, flickerball’s over, but we'll talk about it anyway. In games leading up
to the championship, the KAs got drilled by the SPEs. It wasn’t even close and the KAs were terrible, especially
everyone. This caused John Marshall to transfer. It’s OK but the KAs never took flickerball seriously anyway. Don’t worry about
it, the KAs will make up for it with a banner social campaign.

The Hurtin 4 Certin squad avenged an earlier loss by knocking the Rastros out of it. The SAEs then annihilated
Hurtin 4 Certin in a game that wasn’t as close as the score indicated. Starring for the SAEs were Alec
& David, Bucket Head, Jobes, Wheels, and Lou Homer.

Now for awards on the flickerball season.
Jimmy Carter Most Embarrassing Loss Award: Hill Stockton
Benedict Arnold Turncoat of the Year Award: Ed
Idi Amin Senseless Violence Award: Minor Sinclair
Darryl Stingley Award: Beaver Griffin

As usual, we are now presenting the All-IMAC pre-season basketball team.

1st team
James McLain F 6-3 210, Chairman of the Boards for the Breeze. Led IMAC in tackles last year. Only player
stronger than Joby—also smarter than Joby.
Gary McDonald F 6-5 160, Best taste in chapeaus in the league. Only player in the league to room with
Rich Wilson. Cute Mother.
Eric Sorensen C 6-6 275, Most petite in the league. He feels 2 years of instruction from Eddie Biedenbach have
prepared him for IMAC.
Gifford Piercy G 5-11 170, Plays like he’s 8-11. Could lead Breeze to title.
Mike Goode G 6-2 165, pseudo 2 KA—but still a good player. Master of the Turley Howard jokebook.

2nd team
Joe Roberts F 6-3 180, Best Indian player in the league. Known as Injun Joe Jumping Bull. Sold his property
for 3 cents an acre. Some players can jump out of a gym. Joe can jump out of a teepee.
Bob Lapple F 6-0 195, Vagabond, nomad. Good throw to second base. Won’t jump. Nice stash. May not lead league
in scoring, but will in T-birds.
Skip Brown C 7-2 125, a lean and hungry ballplayer, mostly hungry. Could make Dillard a star. Only player to
wear beeper during game. Blue chip paramedic.
Locke Whitesides G 5-11 175, was on first team before Amor came into his life. Has famous relatives.
John Porter G 5-9 175, Academic troubles with French 10. Known as JJ to friends. Playsserious hoops.

Preseason Awards:
Gatling Gun Award: Minor, Chip, Beaver, Rand
Plowhorse Award: Cam Zurbruegg
One Paw in the Grave Award: Polar Later.

The Hair Cottage
Owner/Stylist: Jane Schenck
1757 E. Rocky River Road
892-5107 by appointment only

Duke Graduate School of Business Administration Planning
A representative of the Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus Wednesday, December 10, to discuss the Duke
MBA Program. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the Office for Experiential Programs & Life/Work.

Piercy, a duo that was to spearhead a potent Davidson attack. Injuries to several offensive linemen didn’t help matters either.
Farrell, however, refused to make an excuse of injuries saying, “If we had played perfect football and lost, it could
be blamed on injuries, but we didn’t play perfect football.”

Perfect, no. But at times very good. One thing that disturbed Farrell was that often those times of very good
football came after the first quarter. Bucknell held a 13-0 first quarter lead in what seemed to be a blowout,
but the Wildcats woke up and played outstanding ball for 3 quarters for a big win. Boston, on the other
hand, took a 21-0 first quarter lead, but the Cats could only play even-up the final 3 quarters to lose,
35-14.

The Wildcats also picked up wins in the season opener over Springfield, a scrubbing of Southwestern, and back-to-back wins over
Hampden-Sydney and Guilford. Other losses came at the hands of Lafayette, Lehigh, Southern Conference champs Furman, and perennial power The
Citadel. Farrell felt most of the losses were due to offensive inconsistency rooted in both the injuries and the coaching
staff.

Next season, however, consistency bodes to be a trademark despite graduation. Although Atkinson and Piercy graduate, they will not be
as sorely missed as if they were healthy all season, for underclassmen have already had much playing time in the
holes they vacated. Quarterback Brian Whitmire and 1000 yards-plus rusher Ray Sinclair will return to solidify another explosive Wildcat offense.

The defense, however, will be another story, as the interior line unit plus cornerback Kevin Hanna, left end Pat Sheridan,
and linebacker Atmire Bailey will be lost to graduation. Farrell, however, is hopeful that five underclassmen averaging 260 lbs.—including freshmen
Wendell Washington and John Vassos and junior John Bazos—will fill in the holes well.

Even though the quality of Davidson football increases yearly, the schedule is not getting any easier. Springfield, Guilford, and Southwestern
have dropped off the 1981 schedule, and two of the vacancies have been filled by Wofford and Catawba, leaving one
date open. That means the team has seven tough games to get psyched for next year on a schedule that
Farrell says features “a street fight almost every Saturday.”

At this point, the recruiting list is yet to be pruned, and because of the long admissions procedure, Farrell is
unsure of what he has entering next year’s class. He is optimistic, however, noting that Davidson’s relative success over the
last four years (20-20) enables him to get better recruits. If the incoming freshmen are comparable to the class of
1984, Farrell expects banner years in the future.

As far as the 1981 season is concerned, Farrell again sees “No one on there we can’t beat. There are
no lay-downers. I look at the schedule and I feel good about it.”

Timeless Traditional Styling for On and Off the Campus
See our selections of:
Outerwear
Suits
Blazers
Sweaters
Pants
Jackets
Shirts
Ties
Belts
Flannel Shirts
Down Jackets
Western Hats
Boots
Weejuns
Jeans

John Mack & Co.
