6—The Davidsonian—November 7, 1960

I lost so badly. All those Gallups and Harrises said it.

Cut out intramurals and use the money we save to increase the Davidsonian editor's salary. Sports have no place at
Davidson, except some of the minority ones like ping-pong and advanced volleyball. I hope

Harriers take 6th place at Southern Conference tournament

By BUCK BRADBERRY
Staff Writer

In the year’s final meet,

Jack Smith, three important runners plagued by injuries in recent weeks.

Obviously excited by his team’s effort, coach Sterling

frisbee golf season starts. That's our best activity next to our destined fish program. If it wasn’t for intramurals, we
wouldn't have such an envious position on campus.

John East: I grew up in a family of love. My students at East Carolina never challenged me to play
intramurals but if they had I’m sure my team would have won. And I think

(Continued from page 1)

proposals with Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman or the first and second year Humanities Chairpersons, Religion Professors Daniel
Rhodes and Samuel Maloney. Maloney agreed with Spencer that Humanities is a top priority program. However, present faculty and financial
resources are not large enough to allow expansion of Humanities, Maloney said.

Student demand for Humanities could, if necessary, be reduced in a number of ways, according to Maloney. Entrance to the
program could be based on English Achievement test scores or some other testing procedure. Or brochures describing Humanities to prospective
students could point out more the demands the program places on students,

that the Marxist government in Nicaragua will do well in the

George Brett: I wish I could play flickert. If I get rid of my hemorrhoids I'll play next year.

Other words of note: The KAs won, Hurtin 4 Certin beat the Rastros despite a bench-clearing brawl to avenge an
earlier loss. The SAEs romped

Southern Conference Sportsmanship Award for conceding before half the country even voted. Nice job Talmadge and Morgan. One last time:

It’s off to war we go,
It’s off to war we go,
Hi, Ho, grenades we’ll throw
It’s off to war we go.

Later.

particularly the requirement to participate actively in discussion. This could lead some students not to select Humanities, reducing the program’s
enrollment. Meanwhile, Rhodes said, there are now enough professors to teach in the first-year program, short one member for winter
of an eighth section of 18 students. The section was added because of excessive student demand for the course. Rhodes
taught the eighth section as an extra course this fall. Assistant Library Director Mary Beaty, who would have only taught
Humanities this fall, will also teach in the winter term. Rhodes said no final decision has been made on whether
Beaty will teach this eighth section in the spring.

Sophomore Catherine Smith gets in a few strokes before cold weather comes. (Sally Neal)

decision-making.

You're career-oriented. You're interested in business. You're an individual seeking experience in problem analysis, requiring decisive results. You want management
training and leadership experience. Experience that will be an asset in a business career—or any career you may choose.

WANTED: Adventurous Companion with interest in

individual, you can get all of this experience through the ad-
