Town and College: a curious and changing partnership
By AL CONNETTE and CAROLE LOPTSON
Special to The Davidsonian

Davidson College was founded in 1837 on property donated by the family of General William Lee Davidson of Revolutionary War fame. The town of Davidson grew up around the College and was not incorporated until some 40 years later. It was a “one horse town,” and that horse was Davidson College. The College and those people associated with it have continued to dominate the other two communities in Davidson—the black community and the poor white community. Though in recent years the economic base of the community has widened and diversified, the College still has a dominant role in the community and a great deal of cooperation and interaction occurs between the College and the community.

Town—Gown Cooperation

According to Business Manager Bob Currie, the most notable examples of cooperation occurred where financial resources were pooled—as in the case of the purchase of a fire truck. The College donates $1500 to the town each year in lieu of property taxes on the College campus, which is not taxed because it is used for educational purposes. Other forms of cooperation involve College-related people serving as town officers or advisors, committee members, volunteers, and initiators of ideas. Finally, the College offers the town recreational and cultural facilities, entertainment, and educational opportunities.

Downtown Re-development

Davidson College has attempted to steer the growth and development of the community. In the early ‘70s the town unveiled a plan to transform the town’s business district into a village mall. The existing business district would have been significantly enlarged without sacrificing the small-town atmosphere. The plans weren’t economically feasible, according to Mayor Nancy MacCormac, and they were never implemented, but Davidson College, Piedmont Bank, and Community Properties, Inc., have continued to hold and buy up land behind Main Street in case the project becomes possible in the future. MacCormac said the town is now in the process of updating this plan.

This land grab aroused some blacks’ suspicion that the Bank and the College were trying to control more of the town, so this idea has carried over. James Raeford, Assistant President of the Community Development Club, said, “They (the College) own all the land. Once they get their hands on it, that’s it.” There is some uncertainty in the black community about whether the College does own the land and how much it owns. Daisy Raeford, Chairman of the Town Community Relations Committee, said, “The blacks think the College owns the land but we're not sure.”

During the ‘70s, specialty shops began to thrive on Main Street, partly because of their ability to draw customers from surrounding areas, according to Mayor MacCormac. These do not really serve the lower-income black and Delburg Street communities who wanted discount stores such as Revco and K-mart. Annie Mildred Lowry, a cook at KA and active in the black community, said the “still so whitey,” and James Raeford said he “goes uptown just to pay a bill.” Irene Blackwell, who has run the Village Store for 14 years, said she caters to student and College business. Tom Williams, editor of the Mecklenburg Gazette, said, “It always seemed to me that the College has kept the downtown alive. It’s been important in the atmosphere of the town.” Blackwell agreed. “As far as I’m concerned, it’s a plus. The College attracts people in all the time.”

Several years ago the College considered moving student post office boxes into the Student Union. The town government and Main Street businessmen reacted by condemning the plan because students might not shop on Main Street if they weren’t drawn across the street by the Post Office. The College owns a good bit of land in the downtown area, mainly the land between Railroad Street, Griffith Street, and Depot Street (except for the Copeland House). Hence, the College’s support is needed for any attempt at downtown development. The College has in fact given this support by offering to move the bookstore onto Main Street should any new building occur. In addition, the new Medical Center was made possible by the investment of College Endowment Funds. At one time, putting this building behind the business district was considered in hopes of reviving the 1972 downtown development plan.

College Steers Growth

The College initiated further community development by providing subsidies or loans to faculty and staff for constructing or buying houses within the community. The town benefits directly from such housing development by increasing the tax base. In past years, the College has opened up subdivisions and sold the lots at subsidized rates to faculty. These subdivisions were gradually filled and no areas have been developed recently, though there are plans to develop the MacConnell farm property on Concord Road. However, as Jack Tate, President of the Community Development Club, said, the committee used a combination of Farmers Home Administration Loans, free plans provided by the North Carolina Extension Service, minimal charges for lots, and only non-profit agents to establish the Lakeside Housing Development. The project was a tremendous success, and it formed.

(Photo courtesy of Communications)Department) dent of Piedmont Bank and Trust, has pointed out, this subsidizing tended to discourage private investors from developing land, thus inhibiting town development. The impact of this is hard to judge. There does seem, however, to be an interest in keeping Davidson small and comfortable by restricting the sale of land. The College has had considerable say in major town decisions on growth such as the rejection of Marineworld or the coming of Ingersoll-Rand. New projects are in the making. One example is a planned community on Lake Norman at the end of Griffith Street across the I-77 overpass. The College appears to be lending tacit support to the project. One possible reason for this is that it will increase the possibility of constructing a motel at the I-77 interchange which would benefit both the College and the town. Another reason, suggested by Julius Melton, Director of Special Resources at the College and member of the Community Relations Committee, is that “the College would be better off—less vulnerable to misunderstanding within the community—if it loses its domineering status.”

Three Housing Schemes

Finally, a major contribution of the College to the development of the community has been the elimination of substandard housing. The first attempt to reduce substandard housing was 30 years ago when DCPC pastor Carl Pritchett raised money from college students and local citizens to build 14 houses on Mock Circle. The second attempt began established cooperation between various groups in the community. It drew widespread attention and was a model for national legislation which made provisions for low-income housing development assistance. The most recent effort has also involved many college-related people and resulted in the federally subsidized rental units on the lake near General Time Corporation.

Employment Monopoly

The College has also played an important role in employment, especially of blacks. Until Reeves Corporation moved into Cornelius about twenty years ago, Davidson College was the largest employer in the area. The days of a black janitor working for the College for twenty years and retiring to find himself without any retirement pension, or of a black being let go for complaining or organizing other workers, are gone. Since 1975-76, benefits have been brought up to the level of faculty, administration, and office clerical staff benefits. Wages for custodians have gone from a maximum of $1.55 per hour in 1966-67 to $3.91 per hour in 1979-80. College President Samuel Spencer said, “I think the College should be a leader in wages and benefits, not a follower.” Problems still exist, however. The Bill Rolland dispute earlier this year indicates that some of the heavy-handedness survives. Cooks on Patterson Court still have no retirement plan and they got unemployment compensation. Although the cooks are employed by the eating houses, not the College, the College has a lot of influence over them, according to ATO cook Sue White and KA cook Annie Mildred Lowry. “When we went and talked to the people on the hill (at the College) they said they don’t employ us, the houses do, so they can’t talk to us either. They’re wishy-washy,” said White.

The College has historically had fewer employment relations with the white community around Delburg Street (one block north of Griffith Street, behind Bridgeport Fabrics). Members of this community have traditionally worked at one of the two mills in town, either the asbestos plant or the spinning mill. This area, known as the Davidson Mill Village, broke up when the blacks started moving into the low-rent “shot-gun” houses the College moved from behind the Post Office to Griffith Street. According to Salinda Mayhew, a lifetime Davidson resident, the College moved these houses (earlier used by married students) right into the mill people’s backyards. F.L. “Cash” Jackson was mayor of the town and at the same time secretary at the College. “Some land was sold. People had no idea what was going on, nobody was told they were doing this,” Mayhew said. The white people scattered, and the mills closed down. Now most of the Delburg area residents work in industries outside Davidson or are retired, and have little connection with the College.

Recreation

Recreation facilities in Davidson are probably the most important issue facing the town now. Mayor Nancy MacCormac explained that “the College has in the past provided outlets for recreation. Recently, the College has had to draw gradually back.” Davidson College Security Officer Harold Cook, referring to the community’s use of college facilities, said, “Things have gotten out of hand. Now we're having to use more control.” He noted that with the increasing number of students there is a strain on existing facilities, and that with 400-500 women on campus now, the police have to be more active. Annie Mildred Lowry, a cook at KA, active in the black community as well as a past member of the Town Parks and Recreation Committee, said, “Now the policemen harass the kids over there (at the College). I understand they do it to white kids but more so to blacks.” She said more blacks used to go to events at the College than do now. The change was spurred when President Spencer went down to the tennis courts and found a line of students waiting for courts and complete strangers on the courts. Cook also cited the (See Town, page 11)