—Swimming— (Continued from page 5)

sophomore year. Coach Miller unhesitatingly praises Davidson's most diligent swimmer: “I’ve never coached anybody who’s worked harder nor anybody more dedicated. Even though Mark missed school because of mono his freshman year, he came back for the championship and won in the fly event.”

From that freshman year, Tommerdahl improved during his junior year by capturing the 400 IM, 200 fly, and 500 free in the conference championship.

How important is swimming to Tommerdahl? His roommate Steve Risley confides that, “Swimming is everything to him—he eats, sleeps, and talks swimming.” Tommerdahl has put in about the same number of hours swimming as he has academically. Interestingly enough, swimming has meant a great deal socially to Tommerdahl: “I’ve found many friends through swimming. It’s almost like a fraternity now—the comradeship is important to me.”

Mark’s nickname among some teammates is “Animal.” Risley posits two reasons for this nickname. “First of all, Mark swims the hardest events of the meet (the 1000 free, 200 fly, and 500 free). Only an animal like Mark could consistently do this. Secondly, Mark shows his animalistic tendencies the minute he jumps into the water.” Mark himself thinks the nickname is fitting: “It’s my mentality.”

News at a Glance

Consultants Will Evaluate Athletics
Three independent consultants will evaluate College athletic policy, probably during April. The Board of Trustees approved the evaluation plan at their February meeting. College President Samuel Spencer said an invitation had been sent to three prospective consultants. They will be people presently involved in college athletics.

SGA Elections Approaching
Anyone interested in running for President or Vice-President of the Student Government Association may sign up this week until Tuesday, March 18th at 4 p.m. Those interested should sign up in the Dean of Students office. Elections will be March 25th.

Yearbook Editor Chosen
The Media Board has appointed sophomore Diane Odom editor of the 1981 Quips and Cranks yearbook. The position is generally an elected one, but this year no one filed. Odom, who is on the Classics Abroad program this spring, will begin work on the yearbook next fall.

March 14, 1980—The Davidsonian

(Continued from page 5)

placed in a specific order such that their code describes the meaning of “fitness.” Next, the first word from this phrase will denote the team that will have top priority on a softball field for the first game. Ignore the details. If a team is assigned to play a game on a certain day on which it has a conflict, it can go through the drop-add procedure. On the last day of exam period, the team captain should take a registration form to the field on which his team has a conflict. He will then be given a slip to take to the gym to give to Sterling Martin. If there are no openings for an-

accepted as vacancies occur due to transfers, students going abroad, and other similar circumstances. Students who do not gain admittance to any Patterson Court housewill have the options of eating at Bailey and Richards Houses or eating independently. Food Services Director Barry Cheatham said that ARA Slater will lengthen operating hours if needed next year to accommodate students who have not gotten into Court houses.

Just Arrived: BIRDWELL swim shorts back the second week of the other date then he can come.

Afghanistan (Continued from page 3)

Karachi port large quantities of American goods intended for delivery to Afghanistan. Pakistan’s military alliance with the US on one side, and Afghanistan’s reliance on American economic assistance through AID on the other, prevented the US from exerting pressure on either side. However, due to American efforts, a transit route was tried through Iran, which though not satisfactory, relieved to some extent Afghanistan’s heavy dependence on the Soviet Union. During the summer of 1963, mainly due to American persuasion, the Shah of Iran agreed to mediate between Afghanistan and Pakistan and an agreement to open the Khyber Pass was reached on May 23. After a break of 22 months, the border with Pakistan opened again. But clashes had created an intense distrust, suspicion, and even hostility between Afghanistan and Pakistan. As a result, Afghanistan consistently supported India over Pakistan. During the 1965 war between India and Pakistan, it is even reported that Afghanistan threatened to invade Pakistan. In the closing years of the 1960s, Afghanistan's relations with the outside world were dominated by its relationships with the Soviet Union and Pakistan. The possibility of carving an independent Pushtunistan out of Pakistan could give Afghanistan more dependable access to the outside world. The 1972 war in the Indian subcontinent between India and Pakistan, and the consequent creation of Bangladesh, has fanned Afghanistan’s hopes of an independent Pushtunistan. The post-1973 history can be found in a brief report published in the N.Y. Times on December 28, 1979.

POP FILM

Roger Moore as James Bond in LIVE and LET DIE
Saturday, March 15 at 8:00 & 10:30 PM
$1.50 Season Passes available $6.00

We failed to mention that PAC Chairman Tony Bott said the PAC would meet Thursday afternoon to discuss student evaluation of the faculty. He hopes the PAC will present a proposal on evaluation at the faculty meeting Tuesday, March 18.

(Continued from page 2)

The job interviews that we allow on campus are horrible! The hiring of our students is hopelessly biased toward the better qualified. There’s no excuse for this! I suggest that we ban all on-campus interviews until such time as IBM, NCNB, and all the other companies that might want to interview here adopt a self-selective hiring program with respect to Davidson students. A tentative system might be to have interested applicants sign up for the three or four jobs that they wanted the most (assuming that the companies did orally encourage them, but if the students weren’t encouraged they could sign up anyway). Then the computer would assign random numbers, just like in registration, and the students would either end up with a job, on a waiting list, or go through drop-add.