10—The Davidsonian—September 26, 1980

Brick brothers and Doughboys compile famous IMAC Top Ten

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

We know that our name sounds like a band at SAE, but we are your flickerball soothsayers back for another
season of anecdotes. This week we give our preseason picks for the championship.

THE TOP TEN

1) John Porter

2) Hurtin 4 Certin

3) SAE

4) KA

5) At Your Cervix

6) Dirty Old Men

7) Rastros

8) Ed's Breathers

9) PIKA #1

10) The Bottom Liners

1) John Porter—First coordinated black to play flickerball since Louis Armstrong—and that includes Vince Parker. J.P. is the recipient of
the “Bear” Keith flickerball fellowship which will raise his D.C. income to $14,000 this year. He has spent 3 years
grappling with wife Shelia to prepare for the rigors of IMAC flickerball.

2) Hurtin 4 Certin—Should be strong this year with the addition of Porter, despite the loss of peripatetic Ed. Offense
will be bolstered by the return of Yates Sealander who spent last year toiling in the Beaufort Marine Flickerball League.
“Frying Pan Hands” Ray returns along with the $2000 man. H4C has the speed, experience, and guts to go all
the way.

3) SAE—Twice defending champions could return to the winner's circle again if “coach on the field” Merten stays out of
the realm of playcalling. The button-down clad warriors have a lot of talent and could prove a nemesis to Ports
and H4C. Veterans Wheelock and Merten lead a talented offense capable of scoring at will while Chris “I'm preppie” Daniels
heads a young defense.

4) KA—They have Hill—so much for talent. Not much left from last year’s runner-up team that choked in the finals.
Moustache Hall leads a corps of mediocre KAs who fill out the roster. The celebrated KA playbook will be smaller
this year in accordance with Hill’s GPA. John “Unusual” Marshall adds a lot of talent making the KAs contenders.

5) At Your Cervix—Lots & Lots & Lots of talent with little experience. John Carroll, proud owner of $1000 worth
of new cookware, should be a dynamic tailback. John Corso, the hairiest man in IMAC, should be able to intimidate
pre-pubescent freshmen.

6) Dirty Old Men—Only thing that keeps this team going is tenure. Sterling Martin (class of '37), Jeff Frank ('21),
John Kelton ('33), and John Stroud ('70) are the mainstays of the menopause kids. These generic warriors of the gridiron
are also bolstered by David “Footnote” Shi who is hoping to supplement his flickerball incomes with royalties from his new
book which is on sale at the APO bookstore.

7) Rastros—Meet the Davidson version of the Jetsons. Ken “Elroy” Murrah, Buck “Judy” Bradberry, J.C. “Jane” Faulkner, and Phil “Rastro”
Gordon are the stalwarts of this squad. Their primary competition should come from the Cogswell Cogs.

8) Ed’s Breathers—Should lose on the road. If they get behind, there’s a good chance that they’ll quit. They’ll probably
even forfeit their games. In fact, they’ll never keep a job and if they get married it won’t be long
before they walk out on their wives. These guys are just disgusting. (Sound familiar, fellas?) Look for Barry Prine to
lead the team in speed.

9) PiKA 1—The Pikes are the surprise team of the season. Most of last season’s starters are back along with
some new talent. The only drawback is that everybody’s all-IMAC player, David Barkley, will play on the second team. And
say guys, be considerate and don’t take your stereo out to the field when you play. Leave it at the
house; the art students in Lingle Manor love it!

10) The Bottom Liners—This team of freshwomen floosies doesn’t have any business being ranked but we like ’em. Led by
Jane “one pair of shorts” Alexanian and Beth “My brother’s a SPE” Mack, they are a shoo-in for the girls'
title. (Note: This is the last girls’ entry of the year.)

There weren’t any IMAC games played by press time so we thought we’d report on the national scene. Iraq threw
several bombs early and jumped out to a 21-3 lead over Iran. That’s all the news for now.

Joby caught his first fish but his dog, Polar, ate it. Hi, Nancy and Ellen. For autographed Doughboy picture (see
above) $1.95 to Pillsbury Inc., Box IMFAT, N.Y., N.Y. Zombies Saturday.-Oh no.

NEW YORK UNIVERSITY

School of Law

A private university in the public service

Representatives from New York University School of Law will be at Davidson College on Tuesday, September 30, 1980 from 2:00
p.m. until 5:00 p.m., to speak with interested persons about admission to New York University School of Law, and to
answer questions about the Law School. The meeting will be held in the Office for Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning.

_Add experience to your degree.

Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won’t be unusual to make changes as
you go. And it’s entirely possible that your final career does not even exist today.

Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited to a desk and
typewriter.

Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.

But when your first job is an Army 2LT, you'll soon have real management experience. You'll be in charge. On
a specific job assignment, you could have 30 to 40 people working for you. And you could be responsible for
millions of dollars in equipment.

Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of “take charge” experience civilian employers seek. It’s a margin of
difference in the increasingly competitive job market.

Prepare to rise to the top in your field. Make your first job 3 or 4 years as an Army
Officer.

If you have two years remaining in school, you can begin ROTC this summer. You’ll be compensated financially; stimulated physically
and mentally. To add experience to your degree contact

ARMY ROTC

Box 368 Davidson, NC 28036
