8—The Davidsonian—April 11, 1983

Selling random enlightenment

Jones (left) catching up in his record-breaking run. (Stephen Ennis)

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Another week, another article. Yep, you read that in Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. We are Davidson's answer to sincerity.
Hope things are going well back home. Now for enlightenment.

We were sitting around under the apple tree and Bonehead had some really good dope. He came up with the
idea that random people are never recognized. You know, we have convocation where the seniors dress up and the juniors
get the awards for academics and service, but did you ever think about all those random people that you never
hear about? Think about it. Random people make the world what it is.

After deciding to do this article on random people, Bonehead decided he would do some research. He went and talked
to Dr. Locke White for six hours and was able to understand fifteen seconds of what he said. Dr. White
explained that entropy is a tendency towards randomness. Entropy is also a fundamental principle of all reactions. Do you get
the drift? Random people are everywhere making random things occur.

“Where are they,” you ask. Well, they are in random places. Between your toes, in your sandwich, in your roommate's
underwear, in Will Terry’s hair; yes, random people are everywhere. Now is the time for random people to come out
of the closet. Welcome to the B&B Ten Most Random People. (The method used to choose these people was too
random to explain.)

1. DAVID HIPP: David works at the library desk at 8:27 on Wednesday nights. He was selected on the basis
that he answered the phone at the library when we called. We will make a random guess as to who
David will not take to Spring Frolics: Debbie Hoover, Cora Nelson, Mildred Lowry, Herb Jackson, and David Hipp.

2. MARK DAVIES: Selected from a list of randomly obscure professors. What else can you say about a man you
don't know.

3. HILL STOCKTON: Hill has a way of making food come

The Citadel & UNCC challenges baseball's standing

By STOKES PEEBLES
Staff Writer

Davidson still leads the Southern Conference with a 6-2 record (12-11 overall) but several key games coming up in the
near future will determine whether the Wildcats can retain the top spot. The most critical of these games is the
set that Davidson will play against The Citadel on Saturday here. The Citadel is tied with Marshall for second place
in the conference with a 4-2 record, only one game behind Davidson. Therefore, the emphasis must be to play well
against The Citadel if the Cats hope to

Junior rightfielder John Haskell commented, “We have to take three out of four from ETSU and The Citadel to give
us a good shot at the conference title.” However, the Wildcats play a big game tonight in Charlotte against inter-Mecklenburg
rival UNCC and some players are scared that that game might adversely affect Davidson. Freshman first-baseman John Marshall stated, “We're
playing well now but I'm scared about a letdown after the UNCC game. There's a big pride factor involved,” Marshall
added, “we do have an advantage over the other conference teams in that we've played eight league games and the
most any other has played is six. This really puts the pressure on them to catch up.”

All of Davidson's games last week were non-conference contests and the Cats were 2-2 during that period. Norwich beat Davidson
in a closely contested 8-7 loss but Jeff Ray hit his first home run ever to keep the Wildcats close.
Davidson then swept two games from Juniata (Pa.) 6-4 and 9-1 to once again go above the .500 mark. In
the first gameJohn Porter had 3 RBIs, scored 3 runs, and had a homer and a double to lead the
(Trey Thies) offense. Diggs Bishop upped his record to 4-1 with a complete game victory. In the second game, John
Young won his fifth game of the year by holding Juniata to one run. John Haskell had three hits and
a homer to pace Davidson. Monday afternoon, Davidson lost 8-4 to North Carolina State in a game in which Davidson
had 12 hits but was unable to score enough runs to beat the Wolfpack. Co-captain Joby Merten had four hits
in the game to pace the Davidson attack. One of the biggest additions to the team in the last few
games has been the consistent hitting of centerfielder John Porter. Porter was an all-conference outfielder last year and led the
team in hitting, but until the Wake Forest game, his average was only .240. Since then, he has been 13
for 19 and raised his average to .352, second highest on the team. John Haskell still leads the Cats in
hitting with a .382 average and added a home run this week to up his total to six for the
season. Cam Zurbruegg has a .317 average to place third on the team. Pitchers Diggs Bishop and Jon Young are
still leading the staff and have accounted for nine of the twelve Wildcat victories. This week, Davidson plays the 49ers
tonight in Charlotte and The Citadel here on Saturday afternoon.

4. BOBERT ROWIE: The fact that Bobert’s name is in the IMAC article is proof that this article is completely
random. Bobert's claim to fame is that he logged more hours in the library than Leland Park. His body appears
to have been strung together in a completely random manner and it is proof that natural disasters do occur in
a random manner. The physiology of Davidson’s student body was put together in a random fashion and Bobert was lucky
enough to end up as the reproductive organ. Guess who wrote this one!

5. CLIFF TRIBUS: This tall specimen was just randomly intercepted on his way to the library to study. Cliff was
so intent on getting his work done that he left his attire in his room. When asked about this awkward
situation, Cliff responded, “It ain’t nothing but a thing.”

6. STORK MCDONALD: Similar to Cliff in many respects. This loyal fraternity pledge ran through the library in a random
pattern dragging an unknown random object behind him in a surprisingly happy, random fashion. When asked about this awkward situation,
Stork responded, “It ain’t nothing but a thing.”

7. NICK VIEST: Known to his few random friends as “Little Bitty Nick.” Nick's face is strong testimony that genetics
take a random course. A recent study revealed that Nick was weaker than 7 out of 10 randomly selected coeds,
all of whom broke dates with him. Nick will be here for two more years; then, he will go into
the real world and fail at a randomly chosen occupation.

8. SARAH MOODY: Our token random coed. Thank you, Sarah.

Well, that is all for the Top Ten in the random world. Now for the sports. O.K. guys, who knows
what has been happening in the IMAC world? Oops, looks like this article is already past the deadline for being
turned in to those people at The Davidsonian. Well, old Bonehead better go turn it in. Next week we will
have our special on intramural sports. If you really want to know what is going on in softball and volleyball,
then write P.O. Box 7, Davidson or go by and see Thom Cartmill. Thom seems to have a real interest
in intramurals these days. Later.

SMITH’S FLOWERS
302 SMITH CIRCLE
892-8856
CORNELIUS
