October 24, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

EPC Recommendations For A Core Curriculum

Editor's Note: Following are excerpts from the Report of the Educational Policy Committee Concerning a Proposed Core Curriculum released Tuesday [see article on page 1]. The proposals require faculty approval. If the faculty approves them by February, the new requirements will first affect the class of 1985. Interested students can attend the open meeting with the EPC next Wednesday at 10 a.m. in Perkins Auditorium. Members of the EPC for the period in which the report was composed [1979-80] were Frank Bliss, H.W. Alden Bryan, Cynthia Grant, John Whelton, Benjamin Alon, Edward Palaver, Hallam Walker, Locke White, Jr., Elizabeth Medlin, Bill Purcell, Guy Winker, and T.C. Price Zimmermann.

Introduction

The Educational Policy Committee’s report and recommendations result from a year’s study. Most of the material was developed by a continuing subcommittee, whose reports were discussed and revised by the entire committee. During the year the subcommittee solicited observations and suggestions from chairmen of departments most affected by the recommendations. The committee met with many of these chairmen and with other members of the faculty.

While the committee feels that its recommendations are significant ones, it is not proposing sweeping changes in the nature of the Davidson educational experience. Rather, the committee has sought to state clearly what it believes to be the generally accepted educational goals of the College and then to propose revisions in the curriculum which it believes will achieve them more fully. Throughout its discussions the committee has had two considerations in mind: first, to promote learning as the principal goal of college life, both in the classroom and outside it; and second, to establish a clear and rational structure of requirements whose relationship to broad College goals will be understood clearly both by the students who must meet them and by the faculty members who design the courses that fulfill them.

While the contents and methods of the various disciplines vary widely, the committee believes that there can and should be a conceptual unity with regard to the interrelationships of these disciplines as components of a general education aimed at producing and equipping educated leaders and citizens of this country and of the world. The goals of education include the acquisition of skills, knowledge, and values. Constructing an educational program creates an inevitable tension between the academic view that learning is justified for its own sake, and the demands of society that students be equipped to perform their future roles.

Despite each institution’s own formulation of its educational goals, examination of Davidson's Statement of Purpose and of those of a number of other colleges and universities reveals substantial agreement on many of the general goals of a college education. In accordance with the traditions of Davidson and in harmony with the educational philosophy of many other liberal arts institutions, the Educational Policy Committee believes that the liberally educated person should have:

1. The skills and interest to be continually self-educating;
2. The habits of self-discipline necessary for effective action and thought;
3. The ability to think clearly and to communicate effectively in speech and in writing;
4. A critical appreciation of the ways in which knowledge is acquired and applied, and an understanding of the aims and methods of the disciplines in which knowledge is organized;
5. The ability to recognize and appreciate the aesthetic aspects of life, in the natural world and in human creations;
6. The habits and skills which contribute to the maintenance of physical health and vigor;
7. A critical perspective on one’s own culture, its historical development, and its influence on oneself;
8. An awareness of the pluralism in our world and familiarity with other cultures, including non-Western ones;
9. The capacity to make informed value judgments and the ability to cope with the ambiguities which beset all action and choice;
10. The ability to construct and maintain a personal moral/ethical position;
11. The motivation, as a major element of self-fulfillment, to contribute to the welfare of others through leadership and service.

Some of these goals are met through the academic program, others through the institutions of campus life. Of the former, some are met through major requirements, others through the student’s choice of electives, and still others through distribution requirements. While our present area requirements guarantee some breadth and diversity, the committee has concluded that they are too diffuse to guaranteeThe achievement of certain other basic objectives. Elizabeth Medlin

The committee is particularly concerned that the present area requirements do not guarantee students a systematic introduction to methods of thought and analysis in the principal groupings of the various academic disciplines.

Recommendations

The committee recommends a set of core requirements to replace current area, composition, and language requirements. The core has two parts: a set of competency requirements in composition, mathematics, and foreign language; and a set of distribution requirements. These distribution requirements are similar to the current area requirements, but the committee recommends greater specificity regarding which courses satisfy the requirements. One advantage of greater specificity is that students will be more likely to bring a common background of knowledge and experience to upper-level courses.

The committee intends that courses taken to satisfy the distribution requirements be broad, systematic introductions to assumptions, methods, and subject matters of the particular disciplines, as well as their relationships to other disciplines. Such courses should not only prepare students for further course work but, even more importantly, should equip them for continuing self-education. In order to meet certain objectives of the core, some new courses may be necessary and others may need revision.

Competency Requirements

To prepare students to achieve the goals of the curriculum, the committee believes that everyone should have basic competencies in the use of the English language, in mathematics, and in a foreign language. The composition requirement is satisfied by passing a course in English composition or by making a combined score of 1300 on the SAT Verbal and CEEB English Achievement Tests. The mathematics literacy requirement is satisfied by passing any mathematics course or by achieving specific scores on tests designated by the Mathematics Department. The foreign language requirement is satisfied by completing the fourth term of a foreign language sequence at Davidson. Up to three terms of the foreign language requirement may be satisfied by achieving an appropriate score on a language proficiency examination, as determined by the department involved. Academic credit will not be allowed for the introductory level (001) of a language in which the student has received two or more years of high school credit.

Distribution Requirements

In Area I [Literature and the Fine Arts] students must pass two basic courses, one of which must be in one of the fine arts, and one of which must be in English or American literature.

In Area II [Religion and Philosophy] students must pass three courses, one of which must be a basic course in philosophy, and two of which must be in religion, including at least one course concerned primarily with the Christian faith.

In Area III [Mathematics and Science] students must pass two courses, one of which must be a basic course in a natural science. A course taken to satisfy the mathematics literacy requirement may not be used to meet the Area III requirement.

In Area IV [History and Social Science] students must pass three courses, one of which must be a basic Western history survey course, one of which must be a basic economics course, and one of which must be a basic course in anthropology, political science, psychology, or sociology.

In Area V [Non-Western Studies] students must pass one course from a list of approved non-Western courses. The course may also satisfy a requirement for another area.

The Educational Policy Committee, after consultation with appropriate departments, will recommend to the faculty which courses will satisfy distribution requirements. The committee anticipates that in some cases existing courses will suffice, but that it will be necessary in other cases to revise existing courses or to introduce new ones.

The committee believes that the Humanities program accomplishes many of the goals of the proposed core. We recommend, therefore, that completion of two years of Humanities satisfy the following six core requirements:

1. Composition
2. One literature (Area I)
3. Two religion or one philosophy and one religion (including a course dealing with the Christian faith) (Area II)
4. One Western history and one anthropology, political science, psychology, or sociology (Area IV)

Thus, a student completing the two-year Humanities course will be able to complete the core requirements by passing in addition the following:

1. Mathematics literacy
2. Foreign language

(See Text, page 8)

Bill Purcell