Liberal Arts Can’t Survive In Factories
Tim Dwight

A Liberal Arts College is supposed to be a place where relatively dumb people (students) can spend a few years talking and arguing with relatively smart people (professors), and where these relatively dumb people can pay several thousand dollars to obtain the privilege of honing their writing, listening, and arguing skills with the help of these relatively smart people, and where a relatively dumb person, after a lot of work from both the dumb and the smart camps, may change into a relatively smart person. Then this person graduates and, if lucky, begins work in a Pizza Hut.

Unfortunately, our educational system and our economic system are inseparable partners. Many essential jobs require years of preparation so students have to plan years in advance in order to get these jobs. Also unfortunately, a liberal arts education comes to be seen mainly as preparation for the next step toward a successful career. A public university performs many functions, but the function that keeps it alive, its primary reason for being, is to prepare people to be good job applicants (and theoretically to be good workers). Even if a university is not originally set up as a preparation-factory, that is what it becomes. The students demand this of the university because in its turn the market demands the same from the students.

In theory, a private liberal arts college is supposed to be different from a public university. It should be a place where a student steps out of this flow of economic determinism, dries himself, watches the flow from the outside, then jumps back in again, a far more effective swimmer because he has spent some time out contemplating on the bank. However, in the American private college, most students do not step out at all. They enter a swifter, more competitive flow. The invisible hand reaches even into the so-called liberal arts education.

Even so, student demand is not the most fundamental way that our economic system forms our educational system. Our colleges are modeled on factories. Students are raw material to be given information for four years—then they become finished products. A college has an ideal standard which it works to make each student fit. A college also assumes that a new student arrives with certain traits and developed skills. Most educational institutions become places devoted, like factories, to output, instead of to genuine learning. Students are processed: the emphasis is on getting them through and graduated.

Another analogy using the factory theme reveals something interesting. Students become alienated from their work with grades as the students’ equivalent of wages. Although it would seem that a student in a liberal arts college would have a good chance to work for himself, it is a rare student who does not see his work as alien. The student feels this way because what he produces is not his own. First, he produces for a grade (or to keep from getting a bad grade). A grade, like a wage, is a symbol for a degrading social relation. He aims first not to learn for himself, but to please another. Also, the direction the student takes through the morass of writing left behind by previous generations is determined by the instructor. The student doesn’t follow his own path, but one set down for him. The student ends up traveling the highways of history, the well-traveled routes into the past, and teachers become little more than tour guides. It is no wonder that students become passive snapshot-takers.

Many words are wasted explaining that we study the past in order to understand the present better. In practice this is only a slogan and will remain a slogan because of two genetic defects. First, a student cannot understand something in reading from history that he has not already seen in his own life. Second, through many years of schooling, a student becomes estranged from nature. His real world becomes the books and he forgets that these books were written about the world he lives in. He is de-educated. His link with nature is broken.

A liberal arts education should re-establish this broken link. While in high school or prep school, we have learned how to agree with the teacher, how to smile nicely, and how to receive good grades for slightly reprocessing some information. A good education would break up the habits of students and replace them with the habits of free persons. We would learn why we become who we are and who we should process information for.

Unfortunately, Davidson's students, administrators, and teachers, in almost every case, do not have this in mind. We have in mind our future jobs and our future incomes and therefore we watch...our GPAs closely. Because of this narrow vision, almost all students leave Davidson as ignorant of the world as when they arrived. If students do become smarter here, it is almost in spite of what surrounds them.

Tim Dwight is Opinions Editor.

SGA's new plan... ELIMINATE the housing shortage by reducing demand!

Citizens Have Duty To Fight
Will Reilly

Instead of asking, “Does the government have the right to enforce the draft?”, perhaps, we should ask ourselves, “Does one have a duty to serve one’s country?” One may safely venture a “no” to the first question—but what are the implications of responding negatively to the second question? I believe very few people would publicly say, “No, I do not have any obligation to serve my country in return for what it has done for me—provided me with security and freedom.” And, of course, we expect people to be consistent in their public and private lives. Only a two-faced lying hypocrite would say “yes” in public and “no” in private with respect to this question. We certainly don’t want to have for a friend he who says one thing and does another. Rather, we search for a rare bird—the man of principles.

Of course, all that has been so far said is rather obvious. The really nasty and “un-obvious” business comes in determining what this duty to one’s country consists of. “I pay my taxes,” growls one American, “and that’s plenty enough.” “I never made any agreement with the government,” says our philosophical skeptic. “I had no choice in the matter and the idea of tacit consent or even the hypothetical social contract strikes me as implausible.” The man growling about taxes is our average American clod: the materialist. The skeptic is he who would transcend all earthly nets; the immaterialist. Perhaps with a couple of simple notions we will be able to move these two beings, the one of pure matter and the other of pure idea or thought, a bit closer to one another.

The first of these ideas is that of reciprocity. If the state does all that it does in education, security, and maintaining freedom, then each one of us should be happy to serve the government for approximately two years of our lives. This would be an across-the-board level of equality: that of serving the government. If the government serves the people, then necessarily the people must serve it to obliterate any distinction between master and slave, leader and follower, the ruler and the ruled. In theory, a democracy is a government by the people. But if the government serves us, it is only because we make it work and function. How do we make the government work and function? The answers are not lacking: forestry, national health care, etc. ...and the armed forces, of course. The armed forces maintain the external security upon which our internal security depends.

Ideally, of course, the army should be staffed by volunteers. Unfortunately, no one likes to get shot or even wounded (except extreme masochists). Yet the job has to get done. And that is the nasty part about the draft. Now we could sling statistics about the volunteer Army of today. But as one has said, “There are lies, damn lies, and statistics.” Why use statistics if they aren’t reliable? You would have to be a statistician just to know when they are reliable! So looking at the matter with a little common sense, we might conclude that an Armed Forces which relies on the draft is much stronger than one which relies on volunteers. And in a war, one is out to win, not to fight “morally.” Perhaps, a mandatory two-year Army training would not hurt our defensive capabilities. It would certainly increase the sense of national unity, and probably increase personal hygiene 200%!

As for he who denies the tacit consent, the presuppositions in our life. He who thinks he can is a fool. We are born in a specific time and place, and each age is presented with its own challenges which it must rise to meet or let pass. In short, we must somewhere take a stand or be inauthentic, i.e. shallow. Our thinking will help us perceive the issues more clearly and show us where to take a stand. As Berkeley puts it, “It seems the general opinion of the world... that the end of speculation be practice or the improvement and regulation of our lives and actions.” I believe the general opinion to be right.

In short, let us be men of principle. Thinking will not make the issues themselves disappear, and it is the issues of our day which challenge us. It is really what is going on under all the noise, fury, and confusion in the world—and the fray!

Will Reilly is the Rev. Hyden.