The Davidsen baseball team is still in the race for the Conference crown. April 4, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

(Trey Thies)

Tennis routs Atlantic, losses to UNC, Alabama & Wake

By JOE FORD
Staff Writer

“We're at the crossroads of the season now. We haven’t had enough matches to tell how things will work out.
We could have a good team. We need some people to begin to dominate matches,” said Coach Jeff Frank of
the Wildcat men’s tennis team.

And, as they began their trek toward the Southern Conference tournament, the Cats returned the whipping of last year from
Atlantic Christian College, the 1979 NAIA National Champions, by beating them 7-2. Though the team’s record is just 6-5, Coach
Frank emphasized the fact that “we’ve never been out of a match, and we’ve never lost a match that we
should have won.”

Of the conference, Frank said that the conference is “more balanced now than in the past four years. Five teams
have a really good chance of winning the conference: Appalachian, East Tennessee State, UT-Chattanooga, Furman, and Davidson.”

Baseball salvages week with 2 victories over VMI

By STOKES PEEBLES
Staff Writer

A doubleheader victory Tuesday over VMI allowed Davidson to salvage what could have been a disastrous week after losing three
straight. The Wildcats now have an overall record of 10-9 and a conference mark of 6-2. Junior John Haskell saw
the games against VMI as critical in restoring confidence and “putting Davidson back in the conference race.”

The Cats started out last week by losing to Wake Forest 6-4 in a close contest. Davidson led most of
the way behind the strong pitching of Rusty Colechia, but a three-run eighth inning allowed the Deacons to come from
behind for the victory.

After the loss to Wake Forest, Davidson went on the road to play Western Carolina in a conference doubleheader Saturday
but dropped both games by scores of 8-5 and 10-2. Freshman John Marshall provided much of Davidson's offensive power by
going 4 for 8 in the doubleheader and hitting a home run. Glenn Summers pitched well in relief and now
leads the team with a 1.59 earned run average.

Davidson then got back on the right track by defeating VMI convincingly by scores of 6-3 and 6-1. Rusty Colechia
was the winning pitcher in both games.

More Opportunities to Experience The Working World

Courtesy of the Parents Association

- A certified gemologist in Knoxville, Tennessee, offers a summer job or contacts in gemology in other locations to any
student interested in gemology and the jewelry business.
- An Administrator for Coal Mine Safety and Health in Arlington, Virginia, an office of the U.S. Department of Labor,
offers opportunities to work with the administration of Federal Coal Mine Safety and Health Laws.
1. Work with Programs/Systems Analysts in the coordination, development, and evaluation of management systems. Either a 10-week externship or a
summer job for an economics major. Salary included.
2. Work with the Office of Technical Compliance and Investigations. A 10-week externship or summer job for someone planning a
law career. Salary included.
- A social studies teacher at Freedom High School in Morganton, North Carolina, offers a chance for an interested Davidson
student to observe or help teach social studies. Student may design their own format in an internship or visit. No
salary.
- The Deputy Chief of Police in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, offers the opportunity to experience various aspects of the Fort
Lauderdale Police Department. Student must pass a polygraph examination and background check. No salary.
- A microbiologist at the Bowman-Gray School of Medicine in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, offers the opportunity to do research in
viral oncology, including the design and execution of experiments and the analysis of protocols. For biology or chemistry majors. No
salary.
- The Harris-Teeter Super Markets, Inc. in Charlotte, North Carolina, offers a position working half-time in a retail store and
the other half in the corporate office.the winning pitcher in the first game and pitched a complete game while striking
out seven. John Marshall and John Haskell added home runs to pace Davidson's hitting attack. In the second game, Chip
Christian had a shutout through six innings and won his first game of the year. Haskell added a homer in
the second game as well and had 6 runs batted in for the day. One of the surprises in the
VMI contest was Cam Zurbruegg’s debut at catcher where he played flawlessly. This seems to be an example of how
Coach Palmer Meunch is juggling his lineup every day to get the top talent in the lineup. Sophomore Diggs Bishop
explained that “Coach Meunch is trying to get the best hitters and fielders in the lineup all the time. It’s
good that he is not getting in one set routine and that they have a chance to play, and because
of this, the players are trying harder. It's helped the team's attitude and we're a lot more of a team
because of it.”

The team aspect has been an important factor in the Cats' success, but individual effort has also played a big
role in Davidson’s winning. John Haskell still leads the team in hitting with a .383 mark and has hit five
home runs as well. Freshman John Marshall and Bobby Barnes are both batting over .330 and are hitting the ball
in clutch situations. The victories by Christian and Colechia provided strong pitching support, and similar fine outings by these two,
as well as by Jon Young, Diggs Bishop, and Glenn Summers, will be important as the conference race winds down.
Optimism and enthusiasm on the team remain high, and these will be necessary ingredients for the Cats down the conference
stretch run.

Frank said, “We had some hard early matches,” referring to losses to North Carolina, Alabama, and Wake Forest. He hopes
that this confidence will peak at conference time. To Frank’s delight, he’s getting excellent play from two of his doubles
combinations: Harry Griffith and Jay Gepfert, who are 7-3, and Nick Petrou and Gepfert. They beat a previously unbeaten ETSU
and were “well on their way.” Of Petrou and Todd, Frank said, “Nick and Nevins are a delightful surprise at
number three doubles because they establish ourselves as viable contenders for the number one spot. I really enjoy playing with
Nevins.”

Another top aspect of the Cats’ improvement is the play of the number three and number four singles players (Nevins
Todd and Ricky Johnston respectively). Frank said that “we're getting consistent middle-of-the-lineup strength. We need to light a fire under
number five and number six.” Frank also brought out the point that the Cats have good depth, referring to the
play of some of the others like Jim Haynes and Allen Lazenby. The Cats could win the Southern Conference championship,
but it would take an enormous amount of effort, confidence, and concentration from everyone. If the team can get that
“little bit more,” they could pull it off.

Camp Sea Gull Counselors

SUMMER JOB OPENINGS FOR CAMP COUNSELORS at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls) on the coast of North
Carolina. The camps feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus all usual camping activities including a wide variety of major sports.
Early June through mid-August. Challenging work with young people, 7-16 years of age—outdoors—enjoyable—stimulating. Qualifications include the ability to instruct in
one phase of the camp's program, a genuine interest in young people, and excellent references. Quick answer upon receipt of
a letter of application which should include a brief resume of training and experience in the area(s) of the camp
program in which you are best qualified to instruct. Apply to Wyatt Taylor, Box 10976, Raleigh. For more information, contact
Matthew Covington, Chambers 119, Extension 108.
