8—The Davidsonian—April 4, 1980

Bonehead and the Brick Brothers return to outer space, find SPE’s

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Hello there, you fellow literary ot higher is to you from the Spaceship Brickbone. We are currently hurtling through space at a speed of one Chalmers per hour; a speed roughly equivalent to Cora Nelson’s pace while running backwards through a field of defenseless eco majors. On our right, we can dimly see the E. H. Little Galaxy, full of expectant PiKAs, and alongside that, we see the asteroid of nullification which is brimming with veteran and neophyte Southern Gentlemen.

And then suddenly, much to our surprise, we see something which is alien to all which is in our prior experience. It is an obnoxious heart-shaped planet located at 809 N. Alpha Santore. Captain Perk, appalled but cautious, decides it is our duty to investigate. We land on the planet and are greeted by a woman named Vine, who, while chewing on her cud, explained that there were Stupid People Everywhere here, and we had thus landed on the—drumroll—Planet of the SPEs.

Undaunted, we forged on into the Planet of the SPEs. Presently, we came upon a certain Macedonian king who was All Too Objectionable as well as a SPE. He told us he was Alexander Hooper VII and he maintained that The Davidsonian’s column of the latter 20th century was incapable of any meaningful intellectual activity. We quickly left him as he gazed at us, clearly envious of our superior mental capabilities.

There were other members of the Planet of the SPEs who were All Too Objectionable (ATO) as well. A tall bearded fellow was one such creature, a delightful young SPE known affectionately as the Fiddling Oaf. He said he just liked to feel his feet move and sing Cole Porter songs. We asked this petite oaf what sort of livestock they had on the planet, and he led us to an underground domed coliseum known as the con-dome, because it served the purpose of keeping the SPEs from penetrating the Davidson athletic program. We made our way inside, and guess who was cheerleading? None other than Joe Lambourghini and Rick (call me Dick) Kelley. Both had been working out extensively in preparation for holding up their Guernsey female counterparts on their SPE shoulders. Their altruistic comment was, “We cheer so that others might play.”

Later on, we were fortunate enough to be invited to the SPE alumni weekend by Simple Simon. Simon said (ha! ha! Simon said—this is an old SPE joke—sometimes Tim Yugoslav laughs so hard at this one that he continues until Wil Flanagan beats his face in) that we were invited to attend the festivities and play “Pin the Tail on the SPE” with Alumni Swill Terry and Scram Spencer. We turned down the invitation disrespectfully and decided to take a look at the SPE Hall of Shame before we took our leave.

Among them were such notables as Lee Harvey (SPE-ternal) Oswald, Attila the SPE, SPEro Agnew, SPEedy Duncan, and SPEdi Amin Dada. Amin broke the SPE color barrier by killing all the Caucasian SPEs in Kansas. Well, it was time to leave now—it had been enlightening and above all nauseating. Captain Perk made the final decision to leave since he feared that our crew might contract that dreaded disease, SPE-D. Beam us up, Merts, and then obliterate this place.

In response to pressure from the top and because we feel like doing it, we decided to say something about IMAC this week. The softball and volleyball campaigns are well underway and IMAC czar Sterling Martin seems pleased. As Sterling put it, “The softball and volleyball campaigns are well underway and frankly, I’m pleased.” In volleyball, Net Result is the team to beat with “Sweet Lou” Ortmayer, “Disco Dave” Shi, and Peter “Dr. K.” Krentz leading the way. They will be challenged by FIDO, which numbers in its ranks the ever-present Andy (I like Valentines) McDonald. Another team to watch is the Penal Spikes. These freshmen are paced by the longitudinal Cliff Tribus, winsome Walter Lee, Mike “Mr. Flash” D’Urso, and John (I like to nick around in the showers) Carroll.

In softball, we see no clear-cut favorite but feel that KAs, SAEs, Fijis, PiKAs, or some other team will probably go all the way. The Masterbatters have at once the sickest name and best aggregate set of hands of any team in the league. Other than that, we can only hope that all you softballers will get your feet in position and make things happen.

It’s time to go now so see if you can figure out this last paragraph. Bear, Ben, Sam, Barfin’ Bob, Earl, and Squid. Roosevelt Bowie, “you are a male sex organ!” Gus, you left your knife in my room. Susan, let’s play hoops next week. Later.

$1.50 No Season Passes