Bonehead's mother gave a record-breaking 11,054 gallons this year.

Defense the cause of season’s downturn
By STOKES PEEPLES
Staff Writer

Davidson’s season-ending doubleheader against Furman was indicative of the “up and down” way the Wildcats had played all season. The
Cats split with the Paladins (winning 12-8 in the first game while losing 8-0 in the second) to complete the
season with an overall record of 15-24. The doubleheader also gave the Cats a 7-8 conference record and placed them
close to the middle of the Southern Conference standings.

In the first game against Furman, Davidson had 18 hits, an extremely high number considering the game lasted only seven
innings. Marc Webster had four hits, while Cam Zurbruegg went two for four and had three runs batted in. Diggs
Bishop started the game but Rusty Colechia came in on relief to pick up the victory. In the second game,
Davidson suffered both a hitting and fielding lapse and lost 8-0.

The Cats’ midseason collapse surprised almost everyone. After 23 games Davidson was 12-11 and leading the Conference; however, several factors
contributed to the dismal second-half finish. Junior Captain Cam Zurbruegg said, “Basically it was the defense that let us down,
especially the infield play. Over our last 13 games we averaged over 10 hits a game so the hitting wasn’t
really a big problem.” Zurbruegg commented that the Furman games were indicative of the season in that in the first
game Davidson played sound offensive baseball and the few errors that occurred did not make much difference. But in the
second game, offense and defense both fell apart for the Cats.

Even though the Wildcats finished poorly, there were strong individual efforts that helped the team. John Porter led the team
in hitting again with a .383 average and made a strong bid to repeat as an All-Conference selection. John Haskell
hit eight home runs and had a .351 average while doing an excellent job of fielding in right field. John
Marshall and Allen Griffin had .331 and .316 averages respectively, and Griffin set a new Davidson doubles record. Rusty Colechia
ended up the only winning pitcher on the staff with a 4-3 record and played well the second half of
the season to post an excellent 2.89 earned run average. Jon Young and Diggs Bishop were the other top pitchers.

Next year does indeed look bright. Much has been made about the fact that there were no seniors on this
year’s squad and it looks like everyone will be back. In addition, the Wildcats are recruiting a top high school
left-handed pitcher from Virginia who has narrowed his college choices to William and Mary and Davidson. With a strong recruiting
year, the Wildcats would have the potential for a strong season next year.

May 9, 1980—The we

Bonehead bites the dust
By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Consider, fair students, for you are witnessing the first major event of the decade. Bonehead is retiring. This is the
last public document to be recorded with his pen. And now for “A Tribute to Bonehead,” written by the one
who admires him the most and the one who can say it better than anyone else. Enter Bonehead:

The legend began in the early hours of the morning (when you cannot decide whether to go take one in
the bathroom or stay in bed and let your back teeth float) when a young lad was innocently finishing his
seventeenth Red, White, and Blue on the front steps of the laundry. Up strolled a tall lanky unit by the
name of “Bad Bernard” who was accompanied by his Queenie girlfriend. Bad Bernietook interest in the disillusioned young child but
decided to pass him by in favor of attempting to return to the sack with his ugly mate. Thus began
a long friendship between Bad Bernard and the young lad, Bonehead. In time, the enchanted friendship became strained. The pressures
of drinking every night and attending classes daily began to warp the personalities of the two comrades. To remedy the
situation they decided to forgo their classes. At about this same time, they were approached by a nerd who said
that he was the editor of the student newspaper called The Davidsonian. The nerd said that he was in desperate
need of two expert sportswriters. Bonehead remarked that he once knew somebody who knew an athlete and with this comment,
the duo was hired for fifty dollars a week to inform the students about intramural sports. Thus was born the
article “By Bad Bernard and Bonehead.”

Now Bad Bernard and Bonehead were not your ordinary IMAC writers. They felt that in order for one to understand
IMAC sports, one must have a background of the activities of the athletes (and non-athletes). Oftentimes they would write hundred-page
essays only to discover that the newspaper people had edited most of the comments. But they continued to write against
all that was evil. They criticized women, freshmen, and SPEs with reckless abandon. Hard-ass professors could not escape the wrath
of their pen. The masses loved them and Bad Bernard and Bonehead loved the masses in return. One day Bad
Bernard said to Bonehead, “Bonehead, I’m gonna fly this chicken coop.” And he was gone. Thus Bonehead, upon becoming independent,
was forced to enter manhood.

Bonehead found that it was definitely lonely at the top. He said to himself, “Bonehead, it is definitely lonely at
the top.” So Bonehead went in search of the Brick Brothers and found them smoking hash on the front steps
of the laundry. He passed them by but later returned to achieve a homeostatic high. In time, Bonehead realized that
the Brick Brothers were the perfect replacement for his historical friend Bernard. Now the Brick Brothers were of a somewhat
different nature than Bad Bernard. They enjoyed words such as peripatetic and peripatetic. They worshipped various students such as Merten
and attacked an old lady named Nelson. They exhibited a total lack of regard for the fabulous intramural sports activities
that were occurring on the campus. All of this pleased Bonehead.

But today Bonehead suffers from osteocraniutitis and thus he is forced to park his pen and ascend to a purely
physical life. He is the all-time great IMAC writer. A Davidson legend to be remembered along with such greats as
Peter Stuart Ney, John Gerdy, Woodrow Wilson, and Butch the dog. And just remember that you attended Davidson during the
reign of Bonehead. Now get out of here you little booger pickers!

Now for the news. The scores are coming into our new B&BB Sports Hotline. Games after Monday will not be
reported so if you do not see your score then go sit on a Bunsen burner. In men’s softball, Bone
and the Wankers advanced to the finals of the winner’s bracket after Bone cruised past B.F. Deal 11-7 and the
Wankers recorded a victory over the War Kiwis followed by a 5-4 squeaker over La Casa. In the men’s volleyball
tournament, four teams advanced to the semifinals. Listed in alphabetical order they were Net Result, Airborne, Slaughterhouse 6, and the
Penal Strikes. Look for the team with the baby-faced professor (Krentz) to take the championship. In coed volleyball, Ewes Guys
narrowly lost to Davidson Power and Light Company. The women’s volleyball championship was taken by Psyched to Spike who beat
out the K-O-las as the Buzzer sounded. The girls of Second Richardson were runners-up for the third overall time this
year. In the women’s basketball tourney, there was one team that showed up for every game and therefore captured the
championship. Thank you for your generous support!
