First win in 4 games

Wildcats avenge earlier loss with rout of Marshall

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

The Thundering Herd of Marshall University left Davidson on tender feet after a big Wildcat win Monday night in Johnston Gym. The Cats turned a 115-97 defeat earlier in the year into a total rout, winning 81-53. Jamie Hall led a balanced scoring attack with 12 points, but more importantly, he pulled down 13 rebounds.

Many of the elements of team play the Cats have been searching for all season surfaced against Marshall. Recently, Davidson has been plagued by inconsistent effort which led to close losses like Saturday night against UT-Chattanooga. As of late, other games have gotten out of hand in the last minutes, such as the recent Citadel game where the Cats dropped a 12-point lead in the second half.

Consistency is the key to maintaining control and winning games. Coach Eddie Biedenbach credited Hall’s “consistent hard effort” as a major element of the victory as well as a “solid strong effort out of everybody else.”

No doubt, the Cats will have to depend on a “consistent hard effort” by everyone tonight against St. John’s in New York. Biedenbach feels that the Redmen will be the Cats' toughest opponent all season. With a number eight ranking in the nation, St. John’s will be stiff competition even against a superb Davidson effort.

“We’d like to keep the game close and ring a few free shots at the end to win the game,” Biedenbach said. “If we win, it certainly won't be by a romp.”

After the 61-59 last-second loss to UT-Chattanooga and the Marshall win, the Cats have a 3-6 Southern Conference record and a 6-10 overall record. Davidson currently is seventh in the league, but Biedenbach points out that his team could be third had they defeated VMI and UT-Chattanooga. The Cats lost these two games by a total of three points.

“Anybody has a possibility for the number three through nine spots in the conference right now,” Biedenbach said. “But we have to win the rest of our games to get into the upper part of the league; it’s really important for the seeding of the tournament,” he added.

Davidson gets a shot at two conference foes this coming week. The Cats travel to Western Carolina Monday night; the teams met previously, and Davidson dropped a disappointing five-point game. Appalachian State visits the Coliseum next Wednesday night.

Besides winning and breaking a four-game losing streak, the Marshall victory was welcome for other reasons. “We needed a game,” Biedenbach said, “where we could have some freedom—a game where we could play with ‘reckless abandon under control.’”

“This team has character,” he said. “The guys had some tough losses, but they keep working together. A good attitude and hard work lead to winning and fun. We’re going to get it all turned around.”

Brian Rowan adds another two points to the Cats' score.

January 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

You’ve changed a lot of opinions since you entered college. You know a degree may be the door-opener for a future career. But, you know a degree is no guarantee.

Today’s job market demands more than a degree. Corporations look for “take charge” attitudes in their new executives.

So get a head start on your peers. They’ll be competing with you for the best jobs later on.

Army ROTC provides a head start in leadership and management experience. With Army ROTC, you don’t just read about it. You do it.

It’s not too late to take charge. You can accomplish four years’ work in two years. To add experience to your degree contact:

Army ROTC. Learn what it takes to lead.