10—The Davidsonian—January 25, 1980

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Welcome to another issue of odious and abhorrent reporting. This week is kinda special because we would like to present the Who’s Who in Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. We have been hoping to do this for weeks but with a test one week and a paper the next, along with IMAC games, watching the Cats, getting drunk on Wednesday, going out of town, and having jury duty as well as attending a conference with the Ayatollah and talking to Ken Wood about Junior Year in Afghanistan, we were unable to release our choices.

The Who’s Who students were randomly selected although we felt we had to choose the most qualified. Each student will receive an autographed glossy of B and BB and will have the opportunity to buy a copy of the book with his or her name listed in fine print for $16.75. Get out of here, you knuckleheads.

Now for our famous few:

Stokes Peebles—Most likely to Abuse Your Grandmother. Stokes may look like a nice guy but he was arrested last fall in Concord for spitting hydrochloric acid into the eyes of a small kitten and then placing it into a blender.

John Vail—Best Picture in the Handbook. It amazed us how much John looked like Davidson graduate Dean Rusk.

Jon Lawry—Most Likely to Not Understand a Damn Thing About Sports. Jon is the leader of our stupid pep band. He is the one who tells the band to play Mickey Mouse when there are two seconds left in the game and we are down by one point. Now get out of here, you McGrady look alike.

Tom Roth—Most Talkative. Tom is one of those guys who can’t keep his mouth shut. He talks faster than Charles Ratliff does when there are ten minutes left in class. He usually can’t think of anything to say but says it anyway.

Tommy Thompson—Most Likely to be Shot at a Davidson Sporting Event. Hail Tommy! Hail Tommy! Hail Tommy! Hail Tommy! (A Gary Gilmore party will be held in Tommy’s honor next Wednesday night.)

Tim Bowker—Most Likely to House a Bird’s Nest. To Bowk is so tall that in the Spring he is mistaken as a pine tree when he stands in front of Chambers and tries to implant his roots.

Bill Carr—Most Successful Boy from Clinton. Boss is so unique that we had to include him. His brother is just like him, also.

Turley Howard—Most People Know Turley. If you don’t, then go by First Belk and say hello to him.

Jim Haynes—Most Likely to Grow Facial Hair. Jim is in the second month of puberty. His growth has been stunted due to failure to consume beef. Has hyperactive roommate. You're so crude!

Now for the sports. There was much excitement last week as Fido and the Rear Entries downed the Chester Molesters 46-30. Andy ImacDonald pumped in 12 points for the winners. In other action, OSFD got Nortonized by the Nortonheads 52-43. The Bricklayers, led by Rand Malone’s 19 points, slipped by Airborne 66-45. Dillard had 24 for the losers. That is over half their points. No comment. Corpus Cavernosum whupped the Old Men 62-34. Eddie Biedenbach is a true competitor and a bad sport. Eddie, if you can't take the heat of major college intramurals then get out. In a game of no importance, the

(Jim Crowe) Sports Calendar

Thursday, January 24
7:30 Women’s Basketball: St. Andrews
8:00 Basketball: St. Johns

Friday, January 25
4:00 Swimming: Citadel & Appalachian

Saturday, January 26
11:00 Wrestling: Washington & Lee Tournament
11:00 Swimming: Georgia Tech & Wake Forest
Rifle: Citadel
6:00 Women’s Basketball: Augusta

Monday, January 28
Basketball: Western Carolina

Tuesday, January 29
7:30 Women’s Basketball: UNC—Greensboro

Wednesday, January 30
7:30 Basketball: Appalachian

Away
Charlotte
Virginia
Charlotte
Home
Augusta
Cullowhee
Home
Charlotte
LaurinburgPenal Strikers beat the Bush Boys 42-27. In the feminine league, Twice as Nice dealt on Almost Heaven 49-10. Cathy Inabnet had 20 points for the winners. The Ka-o-las edged on the Ball 19-17. Sympathies to the Palace. That’s all for this week. Are you having trouble in school? Does your roommate think you are gay? Attempted suicide? Write Bonehead and the Brick Brothers at Box 4, Davidson for more information. Later.

Pictured above (left to right) are Peebles, Vail, Lawry, Roth, Thompson, Carr, and Haynes.

Kessler joins basketball staff as aide
by VAN BECK
Sports Editor

One of the new faces on the Davidson bench this season is that of Marv Kessler, who joined Coach Eddie Biedenbach’s coaching staff in September. The addition of Kessler, a nationally-known basketball strategist and lecturer with 15 years of coaching experience in the New York area, should improve Wildcat Basketball fortunes.

Kessler, who played college ball for N.C. State, developed most of his basketball knowledge in New York, where he coached nine years in the high school ranks before moving on to Adelphi University. His connection with the Davidson program comes from a long friendship with Coach Biedenbach. The two have worked numerous clinics along the Eastern Seaboard including Howard Garfinkel’s prestigious camp, and Kessler supplied recruiting tips for Biedenbach during the latter’s Wolfpack coaching days. Coach Biedenbach commented in his typically honest fashion: “I knew that he (Kessler) knew the game.”

When asked to pinpoint reasons which prompted his move to Davidson, Kessler noted Biedenbach’s influence and a consideration for his children. He also commented that “you only go ‘round once,” referring to the fact that much of his life has been spent in one place, New York. Kessler said Davidson's personal atmosphere and such added benefits as the honor code have eased the cultural change, however. “I don’t have to worry about locking my car when I get a bite to eat,” he added. The Kesslers live in Cornelius, but when writing friends in “the city,” Kessler invariably mentions that they live on a lake (Lake Norman, that is).

Concerning the ’79-80 Cats, Kessler was straightforwardly optimistic. “We have to concentrate on getting back on defense and can’t afford to be forced into quicker, transition games against teams such as UNCC or Western Carolina. We will put it together, but our players and coaching staff must be flexible in adjusting our style of play to fit our personnel and the opposition.”

Rifle team finishes subpar third: Parham takes individual second...
By VAN BECK
Sports Editor

The Davidson Rifle Team, despite a sub-par performance, placed third out of seven teams this past weekend in a Western Carolina Conference match. Wofford captured the team competition with 1300 total points while Appalachian State edged Davidson for second place, 1250-1239. The Cat marksmen, who normally score in the 1260 range, were led by senior John Parham. Parham’s score, 270 points out of a possible 300, placed him second among individual shooters in the match. Robbie Kirkendol, Pat Stuart, Doug Austin, and John Hartman rounded out Davidson’s top five.

Davidson's third place finish, which goes into the record book as four victories and two defeats, improves the team’s season ledger to 10-6. Junior team member Pat Stuart commented, “We could have easily taken Appalachian but a few people had off-days. Our team is basically young and with added experience our overall consistency should improve.” Stuart termed this season as “somewhat of a transition, rebuilding” one and also noted the contributions of freshmen Doug Austin, George Hatfield, and Caroline Massey.

This weekend Davidson hosts The Citadel and The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga in what promises to be a highly competitive match; UT-C and The Citadel boast strong squads. But Stuart says “with a team effort we should come out on top.”