September 19, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Segovia protege to perform
By ROBERT THATCHER
Staff Correspondent

“That’s quite enough,” said the Maestro to his young American student, “if you continue like this you will be one of the greats.” Such was the reaction of the legendary classical guitarist Andres Segovia after a recital by one of his most dedicated students, Michael Lorimer. Seventeen years later, Segovia’s conditional praise of this young man has become a reality.

Now one of the world’s foremost classical and baroque guitarists, Lorimer will open Davidson’s 1980-81 Artist Series. Lorimer came into prominence in the early 1970s after completing his studies under Segovia and was soon recognized as an “aristocrat of his instrument.” Since then, he has maintained a busy schedule of giving concerts and instructing some aspiring young guitarists in the Segovian tradition.

Lorimer has enjoyed a consistently growing audience which includes a tremendous following outside the United States. He was the first American guitarist to be invited to perform in the Soviet Union where he toured the major cities in 1975, and then was immediately reinvited for a 1977 tour. Also, Lorimer returned very recently from a successful tour of Israel.

Many people find Lorimer’s performances refreshing in contrast to many other classical guitarists in part because he often gives his audience brief personable introductions to the music. Another reason so many people are interested in Michael Lorimer lies in the fact that apart from his matchless proficiency on the classical guitar, he is considered the primary exponent of the baroque guitar as well.

Lorimer performs all his baroque pieces on an instrument duplicated for him from an original seventeenth-century instrument. He said, “it gives the audience some idea of what the guitar looked like before it was the guitar.” Lorimer is presently spending this academic year at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington as a visiting endowed professor of classical guitar, the university’s first. Lorimer enthusiastically spoke about his Davidson performance, and emphasized that he would be playing music of a “wide and ranging variety of styles.” Lorimer states, “There should be something in it for about anyone with some sort of musical interest.”

Artist Series Preview
Guitarist Michael Lorimer opens one of the most ambitious Artists Series in recent memory, consisting of five performances instead of the usual four. Pat Carrol will portray the famous writer Gertrude Stein in the one-woman drama Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein. She will perform Mary Martin’s play in Love Auditorium, October 20. The Charlotte Symphony Chamber Orchestra will appear in Love December 1. Union Co-Curricular Vice-President Carol Impara said the performance was added to the regular Artists Series schedule in hopes of establishing a yearly concert in Davidson by the full symphony. The mime troupe Mummenschanz will present their novel brand of entertainment February. The widely acclaimed North Carolina Dance Theatre rounds out the season March 11. Clive Barnes, writing in The Times of London characterized the company as “proud, versatile and lively, with a common and uncommon zest for dance.” Season tickets for both faculty and students are three dollars. Approximately 200 seats remain.

Michael Lorimer

Don Carlton—the man who really draws Doonesbury
(CPS) Few people have ever heard of the man who draws what may be the most talked-about comic strip in America. Don Carlton—not Pulitzer Prize winner Garry Trudeau—draws the famous Doonesbury strip, which appears daily in more than 400 newspapers nationwide. In fact, Trudeau hasn’t done the strip entirely himself since beginning work on his master’s degree at Yale.In 1971, "Most people don’t know anybody else works on it but Garry Trudeau,” Carlton says. “You tell people you're a cartoonist and that you do Doonesbury and they say, ‘Oh no, you're crazy. That’s Garry Trudeau.’” 

“I don’t get much attention.” The ideas are entirely Trudeau’s. But he does only the preliminary drawings and the dialogue in his New York studio. Then he sends the sketches to Carlton in suburban Kansas City via express mail. Carlton, 43, is responsible for putting the strips in publishable form. Trudeau’s drawing talent has long been suspect. When the strip first appeared in the Yale Daily News in 1968, the drawings were primitive. His Doonesbury sketches still rarely show detail, except when a new character or feature is introduced. Otherwise, Trudeau simply scribbles in stock features, such as the White House. “Sometimes,” Carlton says, “he doesn’t even bother to pencil in the faces.”

However, Carlton receives little credit. His name doesn’t appear on the strip, and his salary is a fraction of what the author pulls in. Trudeau is believed to be a millionaire. While his boss mingles with Manhattan's elite—Trudeau has dated Candice Bergen and is currently seeing Jane Pauley—Carlton has trouble convincing strangers what he does for a living. “I’m big on the junior high speaking circuit,” he jokes. “I don't impress my kids much, and most of my friends don’t even read Doonesbury.”

In the trade, Carlton is known as an “inker,” someone who goes over the pencil sketches of another artist in ink. He is only mentioned once in a 1976 Time magazine cover story on Doonesbury and Trudeau used that description. “That description ticks me off,” he said. “It’s portrayed like some guy who sits in some dark corner at the syndicate who Trudeau hands the strip to on the last step before the engraver.”

Actually, Carlton provides much of the detail. Often he even has to sign Trudeau's name if the author forgets. Each cartoon, he recalls, takes about 90 minutes to complete. The longer Sunday version, which includes color, takes between three and four hours. In the process, Carlton is only occasionally tempted to put a little of himself in the strips. “Occasionally, I've inserted a friend’s name on the mailbox of the White House, but not very often. I’m a finishing artist.”

He became one through a circuitous route. Carlton, who has a degree in commercial art from Texas Christian University, was working as circulation manager for three Kansas City-based trade magazines when he was first approached about hooking up with Trudeau. A friend of his who owns Universal Press Syndicate, which publishes Doonesbury, asked him whether he’d be interested in helping out. “I told Jim (Andrews) thanks but no thanks,” he remembers. “I just didn’t think it would work out financially. I never thought the strip would make it. It was crudely drawn, crudely lettered, and I didn’t think the subject matter was that good.”

“Plus I had an image of Garry. He was a Yalie. He was a blueblood—his great grandfather's in the history books. And I figured he was awfully brash, not exactly the kind of guy a mid-American family man like me would want as an associate.”

But Carlton finally agreed to meet Trudeau on Labor Day, 1971. Trudeau was passing through the area on his way back east after a vacation in Colorado. He had stopped in nearby Tongonoxie to see his girlfriend.

(See Artist, page 11)