Football and money—No easy solutions to the problem

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Davidson football had its first winning season since 1969 this year, finishing with a 6-4 record. It also cost the College $250,000. Many have raised the question of whether the results produced by the football program are commensurate with the costs, and several options have been touted as foolproof solutions to the football “problem.” Among these are changing the athletic affiliation, dropping to NCAA Division II or Division III, or cutting football altogether. None of these options are simple.

NAIA not palatable

Traditionally, Davidson has been a member of the National Collegiate Athletics Association (NCAA). Since there are not many NCAA schools in the area, scheduling is expensive. Games more than six hours away require air travel, which costs $10-15,000 per game. Next year the team must fly to three games, according to Head Football Coach Ed Farrell. Travel costs could be reduced by joining the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), which has several member schools in the Carolinas comparable in size to Davidson, such as Elon, Catawba, Wofford, Guilford, and Lenoir-Rhyne. However, NAIA membership is not “palatable” to most people at Davidson, Intercollegiate Athletic Advisory Council Chairman David Shi said. NAIA regulations include unlimited scholarships, tryouts, and a six-month transfer rule. Davidson gives no football scholarships, espouses a philosophy of “everyone plays if they want to,” and disapproves of the school-hopping allowed by the six-month rule. Most importantly, Shi added, “the general image of the NAIA is of schools of lower academic standards.”

Division II impractical

Davidson has the option of changing divisions within the NCAA. Football is not among the 12 varsity sports which must remain in Division I in order for the college to maintain Division I status. According to Athletic Director Thom Cartmill, the main factor in choosing a division is not money, but “who you can play.” In 1977, the football program dropped from Division I to Division II for a year. Many of Davidson’s traditional opponents, such as Lehigh, Lafayette, and Bucknell, did the same. Then, in 1978, the NCAA established Division I-AA. Davidson, along with the Pennsylvania schools, joined the new division. Division I schools may award 90 athletic scholarships; Division I-AA, 75. However, since Davidson offers no football scholarships, the reason for the move was to be in the same division as most of its opponents, Cartmill said. This year, only 3 of 10 games were against Division I-AA opponents, and Davidson’s record was 1-2 against them. “In the future, the NCAA will require a certain percentage of our games to be in the I-AA division,” Shi said. “Our scheduling is therefore going to become more difficult.”

Although Davidson did play in Division II for one year, the division is no longer “compatible” according to Cartmill, because there are very few Division II teams in the Southeast. There is a slight possibility that Davidson will be forced to join Division II. Division I-AA must have 45 members by January 1981, or it will be discontinued by the NCAA. It now has 43, according to Farrell. “If there’s no Division I-AA, then we’re Division II, along with Lehigh and Bucknell and the others,” he said.

Division II discussed

Although Davidson did play in Division II for one year, the division is no longer “compatible” according to Cartmill, because there are very few Division II teams in the Southeast. There is a slight possibility that Davidson will be forced to join Division II. Division I-AA must have 45 members by January 1981, or it will be discontinued by the NCAA. It now has 43, according to Farrell.

Davidson beats Southwestern at Memphis. April 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Offense was Davidson's strong suit last season.‘‘If there’s no Division IAA, then we're Division II, along with Lehigh and Bucknell and the others,’’ he said.

Division III: Being discussed informally

A switch to Division III is the most frequently raised alternative. Trustee Athletic Committee Chairman Perrin Anderson stressed that such a switch ‘‘has never been proposed formally to the Trustees. It is being discussed informally among them.’’ Shi said estimates of the amount saved by dropping to Division III range from $50,000 to $150,000. Reductions in actual operational costs would be ‘‘very little,” according to Anderson. They would consist, Shi said, of a decrease in recruiting costs and less wear and tear on equipment, since Division III teams do not have spring practice. Discontinuation of spring practice would not affect insurance costs “significantly,” Business Manager Robert Currie said, because, as part of the athletic budget cut, students’ personal policies will now cover most insurance costs. Nor would travel costs decrease, Cartmill said, since there are no Division III teams in North or South Carolina.

Coaching Reduction: A Possibility

Cutting the coaching staff could create a more substantial savings, Farrell said. The football team now has one head coach and five assistants. Since there is no minimum for Division II coaching staff specified by the NCAA, Shi said, the amount saved in this area would depend on ‘‘how austere we want to go.’’ Cartmill said, “You've got to have at least a total of four coaches even for Division III.’’ There would probably be more ‘‘doubling up” in sports among the coaching staff, Cartmill added, since there would be no spring practice and it is difficult to hire coaches on a half-year basis. This would ‘‘penalize our spring minor sports even more,” he added. There are now two assistant football coaches coaching minor sports, Bob Estock, in wrestling, and Steve Frank in women’s track.

Wildcat Club Funds: Key to Savings

Any real savings from joining Division III would be ‘‘contingent upon the Wildcat Club,” according to Anderson. Since 1970 the Wildcat Club has subsidized the football program by paying for the loan and work study portion of the financial aid package offered to football players. Last year, this subsidy amounted to $107,500. If Davidson dropped to Division III, the Wildcat Club could no longer give this subsidy. The College would not have to pay most of the loan and work study funds, College President Samuel Spencer said, since they are covered by federal aid. The college work study program finances work study salaries, while the National Direct Student Loan and Guaranteed Loan programs are more “attractive” than Davidson’s loan program, according to Assistant Director of Admissions and Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson. This $107,000, then, could be used for other sports. The question, Farrell said, is whether the Wildcat Club funds would remain constant. ‘‘I think it’s certain,’’ Anderson said, ‘‘that some of those funds would not be given.’’ Wildcat Club Executive Director Sandy Carnegie agreed. ‘‘I think (going to Division III) would have a devastating effect on most areas of giving.’’ Carnegie pointed out that 66% of those who give over $1000 to the Wildcat Club give to the Living Endowment as well.

One financial loss would definitely result from switching to Division III, Shi said. As a Division IAA team, Davidson football shares the Southern Conference’s television revenues. This year, the team received $40,000. Cartmill said reducing the football program could endanger Davidson’s Southern Conference status, although there was “no precedent” for a team being dropped from the Conference for poor performance. ‘‘If we changed football and didn’t tamper with minor sports,” Shi said, ‘‘it would probably not affect our conference membership.” Playing in Division III was called ‘‘organized intramural (See Football, page 11).’’