THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 14
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
February 1, 1980

Burts foresees no registration problems
By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

Six professors will be on leave this spring, but Registrar Richard Burts foresees no major problems with registration for next term. Last spring approximately 500 students did not receive three classes in the registration process. Burts said the major reasons for the course squeeze were the closing of Martin Science Building, which eliminated many science classes, and the excessive number of professors on leave.

“Normally,” Burts said, “there are 100-150 students without three courses after registration each term. So, of course, we were concerned that 500 students did not secure three classes.” With the additional science classes and the lower number of professors on leave this spring, the chance for registration problems similar to last year’s is slim. Burts said schedules will be issued next week, and “many variables are involved, so we won’t know if there’s a problem until the process is done. In add/drop I am confident everyone will be accommodated.”

According to Burts, the departure of Political Science Professor Jody Encarnation, who was to teach two courses next term, will not be much of a problem. Burts said the number of students who will be on various trips or in seminar courses next term should balance the number of places that would have been filled in Encarnation’s classes.

An ad hoc committee, which reported to the Educational Policy Committee (EPC), was formed during winter term last year to investigate registration problems at Davidson. Mathematics Professor Benjamin Klein, the committee chairman, said that although the course squeeze last spring term arose while the committee was conducting its investigation, it was not specifically the object of the study. However, Klein added, two of the committee’s major recommendations are especially important in analyzing the registration problems of each term. (See Registration, page 11)

CCRL releases results: approves coed house
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

At least one of the two new eating houses on Patterson Court will be coed, the Council on Campus and Religious Life decided Monday. The two eating houses, which will utilize the present Richards and Bailey houses, will open in 1981-82 when the Dining Commons is completed.

Dean of Students Will Terry said the Council’s decision was prompted by the results of the straw vote conducted last week. Fifty percent of freshmen and sixty-eight percent of upperclassmen chose a coed house as their personal preference over a sorority, fraternity, all women’s or all men’s eating house. A similar majority—50% of freshmen and 57% of upperclassmen—indicated they felt a coed eating house would be best for the atmosphere of Patterson Court (see results below).

Last week the Council had refused to release the results of the straw vote because, Terry had said, they did not want to be “bound” by them. Once Council members had reviewed the results on Monday, however, the consensus of student opinion led to the decision on the first house. The status of the second house is still undecided. “Maybe we will conduct another poll solely among the freshmen,” Terry said. At this time Terry is unsure whether the Council will decide about the second house before March.

Housing lottery rearranged
By SCOTT EBLIN
Staff Writer

Sophomores who are living off-campus or in dormitory lounges will draw first for housing assignments in the April lottery, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. Juniors will draw second, followed by freshmen and then sophomores living in regular dorm rooms. Any upperclassman can keep his present room without entering the lottery.

According to Bolding, the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) suggested freshmen draw ahead of sophomores to assure their getting on-campus housing. The CCRL maintained that off-campus living can be a shock after the protective environment of freshman year.Many of this year’s sophomores were “literally thrown off campus” after freshman year, Bolding said. Bolding does not anticipate a housing crunch like last year’s (See Lottery, page 11).

Faculty members seem unlikely to call for semester system

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Last spring term the faculty voted to table a motion proposing that Davidson switch to a semester system. The motion is still on the table. That faculty vote followed several open discussions characterized by poor attendance and “massive indifference,” according to Philosophy Professor Lance Stell. “There are few people who feel very strongly one way or the other,” said Religion Professor David Kaylor, who chaired a committee that studied the semester calendar last year. The committee itself was split on what to recommend.

Theoretically, the motion “could pass at any faculty meeting,” Stell said. But right now “there isn’t sufficient passion to get a change through.”

One who does feel strongly about a switch to semesters is Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross. Ross argues that the term system does not allow enough time for thorough assimilation of material. “The system we're on is like an extended summer session,” she said. “...Summer courses always cover much less material.” Stell, however, pointed out that a ten-week term “never stretches out and drags on.” Also, History Professor Malcolm Partin wondered about students’ willingness to take four courses at once instead of three.

Intensity is the most important reason to keep the term system, according to Chemistry Professor Nicholas Burnett. “It’s much better to concentrate on a few courses from both the standpoint of students and professors.” The report completed by Kaylor’s committee noted that intensity is valuable in areas such as language study.

Proponents of the semester system say its best feature is the time it provides. Time for “percolation”—“time to let things sink in”—“time to relax,” Ross said. Nineteen-week-long semesters allow students to “get some relief” from the pressure of daily class meetings and penalize sickness less. Stell regards the lessened pressure of the semester system as a more humane way to work with people. Ross also fears that the term system “forces students into hasty work.” Conversely, a longer session allows students to do more in-depth research for papers, read more literature in English courses, and have more time to conceptualize new material in math courses, she said.

Burnett, however, said a switch would “cause complications in any of the lab sciences.” If there were one fewer term per year, the number of students using lab facilities simultaneously would increase, forcing a “major restructuring” of science curricula. Burnett guessed that morning labs, evening labs, and Saturday labs might be necessary to accommodate an influx of students.

Kaylor feels a switch to semesters might make the Humanities program “so superficial” that it would be eliminated. He added, however, that the material now covered in six terms could be covered in four semesters if a credit-hours system replaced the course units now in use. A course like Humanities might meet five hours weekly rather than the three-hour standard for most semester courses.

Ross feels the most attractive calendar is the 4-1-4 system, which includes a flexible one-month term in January. Student options during the January term might include experiential programs, internships, and independent studies, while professors would have time to do research, write, and attend professional meetings. Ross acknowledged, however, that a switch to semesters would not necessarily entail adoption of a 4-1-4 system.

When asked about the likelihood of a switch, Ross said, “I don’t have a clue.” “I could live with either,” Kaylor said. “As we debate the pros and cons, they seem to even themselves out.” Stell doubts that the calendar will be changed except as a part of a reform of the curriculum in general. “You can’t separate the issues,” Stell said. Before many professors vote on a calendar change they insist on knowing accompanying changes, such as sabbatical procedures, course loads, and vacations. “It’s not a clear-cut issue,” Kaylor said. “Individuals are as ambivalent in their own feelings as the faculty as a whole is.”