_ ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914

Departments Ignore Student Perspective

It is disheartening to see that students play almost no role in deciding which prospective professors are hired here. The
History and Economics departments, among others, are neglecting a valuable source of opinion when they choose not to seek students'
impressions of candidates for teaching positions. Even if students' opinions of applicants were next to worthless, students deserve some input
into the hiring process. After all, it is they who will be paying much of the new professor's salary, and
they who will take his classes. The students have a right to say how their tuition money is spent.

Yet without question, students' opinions are much more than worthless when the College is trying to decide which professor can
best teach these same students. One of the distinguishing attributes of a good professor is that he be able to
communicate well with his students, and that his students find him interesting. Obviously, students are best qualified to judge in
these areas. Students can identify prospective professors who are dull or talk over students’ heads whereas another professor in the
same field might not see the problem. Students can say which professors they find interesting and which they don’t.

The faculty has in principle agreed that students should evaluate present faculty. They feel, with good reason, that students' opinions
significantly aid the administration in judging the worth of professors now working at Davidson. It follows that student opinion would
be valuable in judging the worth of prospective professors as well. Each academic department should provide students, through lectures and
interviews, the opportunity to evaluate and voice their opinions on prospective professors.

CCRL Hoards Truth

The Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) should release the results of the straw vote it conducted Tuesday. By
not doing so, the CCRL isolates itself from the rest of the campus and discourages serious discussion of the future
of Richards and Bailey houses. Admittedly, the poll goes a long way towards involving the campus in the decision-making process—at
least we hope so. Since the results of the poll are being kept secret, no one can be sure if
the CCRL really is responding to students' desires.

The essence of any democratic system, even one as minuscule as Davidson's, is the citizen’s opportunity to evaluate elected officials’
performances and influence their decisions. The CCRL’s secrecy denies the students this opportunity. And why keep the results secret anyway?
The basic reason seems to be that the CCRL simply wants to do as it pleases without being forced to
consider student opinion. If no one but the CCRL knows what student opinion is, the CCRL cannot intelligently be criticized
for going against it.

Students need to know the results of the poll in order to continue to participate in the decision-making process. As
long as the CCRL keeps them in the dark, students cannot intelligently do so. The CCRL should stop hiding the
poll results.

— Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Semester System Works Better

To the Editor:

If you are like us, you returned from Christmas break and a.) were not ready to jump back into studying
again, having been on vacation for three weeks; b.) had no choice, since mid-terms were a week away; and c.)
had forgotten the material you covered the first three weeks of the term. These problems prompted us to reevaluate the
quarter system. We would like to note a few of the advantages of returning to a semester system. We have
already touched on some of the disadvantages of the winter term. Valuable class time is wasted; the first three weeks
areOften unproductive and the first week back in January never gets off the ground before the second week. In addition,
during Christmas while friends at home are enjoying a well-deserved break, you are either studying or feeling guilty because you’re
not studying. The semester system would mean 15 rather than 10 week terms. This would allow more time to absorb
and reflect upon the material. Ten weeks is too short to tie things together. Just when the student is familiar
with the basic concepts and could develop a more critical approach, the term is over. Each class would not meet
every day, thus giving the student and the professor more time to prepare and reflect upon the material between class
meetings.

The system would save money and time. We would only need to have two registration periods, two drop-add periods, and
two exam periods. This would save the registrar and other people involved in these processes time and effort. It would
also save the college money. Since many other colleges are on a semester system, it would be much easier to
participate in other programs such as the Washington Semester and the Drew University U.N. Semester. In general, under the semester
system, it would be easier for a student to study for part of a year at another college. It would
also be easier for a professor to take a half-year sabbatical.

Under the semester system, there is the option of a 4-1-4 calendar. This would involve a four-week term in January
during which students could intern with various agencies for academic credit, pursue an area of interest with a faculty member,
or explore a non-traditional subject. We hope that this will not be another in the series of issues brushed lightly
aside by the students, faculty, and administration.

Emily Partin '80
Pam Camerra '80

GPA’s Indiscrete

To the Editor:

The compilation and publication of various athletic teams’ average GPA in last week’s Davidsonian ought to be cause for consternation
among both students and faculty. I personally have greatly valued the individual relationships with students which are possible in the
Davidson environment, and feel this to be one of our greatest strengths as an institution. I no more care about
the average GPA of the football team than I value some hypothetical average student's opinion of my teaching which others
might wish to extract from a poll. As a humanist, I deplore the use of such statistics in a teaching
and learning situation and would urge others to ignore these latest figures.

Mark I. Davies
Professor of Classics

It is tremendously exciting to me when a group of people identify a need and organize an effective program to
meet the need. That is what the old slogan “power to the people” is all about. I think everyone who
was involved in any way with the program learned a great deal and found the effort most worthwhile. Thanks Andy
and ODK.

Kenneth Wood
Director of Experiential Programs

Car Wreck

To the Editor:

Friday night, January 11, someone either backed into or sideswiped the left front side of my white, four-door Austin Marina,
parked in front of Fannie and Mabel’s, and drove away. I realize the driver of the vehicle may not have
noticed the extent of damage when the accident occurred, or may not have known they had hit a car. Anyone
who knows anything about the accident or saw it occur, please talk to me. Thank you.

Connie McLean ‘80
-0534

Thanks Folks

To the Editor:

I would like to congratulate Andy Miller and the ODK for the excellent Practice Interviewing Program which was held between
Thanksgiving and Christmas breaks.
