THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Want A Job?

With graduate degrees in some fields becoming less of an advantage, more and more students across the nation are seeking
jobs right out of college. Never the type to buck trends, Davidson students are doing the same in increasing numbers,
a marked shift from their usual tendency to go straight to graduate school. Ken Wood is accordingly shifting the emphasis
of some of his placement programs, but apparently not fast enough to satisfy some students.

Now that the economy is tightening up and seniors are beginning to scramble for jobs, it doesn’t take rabbit ears
to hear criticism of Wood and his office of Experiential and Life/Work Planning. Students complain Wood and his programs aren't
really able to meet their job-hunting needs. Most of these complaints arise not because Wood's programs are inadequate but because
students don’t understand his approach.

The most often heard criticism is that Wood does not bring enough recruiters to campus. But as he explained last
week, there’s little point in trying to bring massive numbers of recruiters to campus when only 35 seniors have indicated
any interest in getting a job immediately after graduation. Wood said that since the number of non-graduate school-bound seniors is
rising (about 100 indicated an interest in job placement this year), he plans to increase the number of recruiter visits.

Students have also complained that Wood's office has not capitalized on the number of Davidson alumni in business. Although Wood
may be moving a little slow in this area, he is setting up a mentor program this year in which
“students will be given the opportunity to establish alumni contacts in a given field to obtain advice and support.”

Other criticisms of Wood are much more vague and general, and tend to arise from faulty perceptions rather than from
major failings on Wood's part. One student even complained about the informal style of the letters Wood sends to the
student body, citing them as examples of poor communication between Wood and students. We really don’t see the problem with
Wood’s attempt to bypass the stilted prose of the standard business letter. And if communications between Wood and the student
body are poor, it is because students aren't listening. Announcements and encouragement from Wood's office to “just drop by” usually
occupy a good portion of the Announcement Sheet, and posters are almost ubiquitous on the walls of Chambers.

Student dissatisfaction with Wood seems to stem largely from his emphasis on gaining self-understanding before entering the job market. Many
students seem to be more interested in getting in touch with a hefty bank account (or just a secure job)
than in getting in touch with themselves. As a result, they drop by Wood’s office at the beginning of senior
year and expect him to pull off a miracle. Yet Wood points out that the time to begin exploring post-graduate
possibilities is sophomore year. It is a futile effort to try to help someone find a job senior year if
they haven’t even considered what kind of job they want. Wood has many programs designed to clarify students’ interests and
abilities, but like most things they take time.

All of which is not to say that any placement program could guarantee students jobs. Wood pointed out last week
that only about 9% of students nationwide get jobs through their placement office. A successful job search involves a good
knowledge of one’s interests and abilities as well as good contacts. Wood’s office offers programs to develop all of these.
Wood attempts to make students get to know themselves and question their priorities so that they will have a better
idea of what kind of job they want. He is concerned with more than creating rich alumni—he wants to help
students become well-adjusted alumni. Students who complain that Ken Wood isn’t helpful just haven’t given him a chance.

— Mark Barrett

~~ TS { qT SANG HERE THAT THOSE A / STANDARDIZED TESTS AREN'T ) REALLY A VALID MEASURE OF ¢
INTELLIGENCE, CREATIVITY, OR POTENTIAL ORY | ( NS { THAT'S GREAT... ‘ THOSE TESTS WERE THE ONLY THINGS I WAS
GOOD AT /

The Campus Forum

WDAV Revisited

To the Editor:

Last week I made the mistake of giving my divided attention for about ten minutes to one of your reporters.
Being that I was occupied with other matters, and that he was new to Davidson and not familiar with WDAV,
I want to clarify some points that appeared in the article headlined “DAV (sic) to face com

(1) WFAE-FM (at UNCC) has always had a diversified format — never ‘primarily classical.’

(2) WFAE’s signal strength (not necessarily its programming) could draw listeners away from WDAV; however, WDAV is not about to
‘concede’ any part of the city of Charlotte to another classical radio service. The new tower that will be built
should enable us to place anExcellent signal throughout Charlotte. (3) For the record, WDAV’s new tower will be about 6
miles closer to Charlotte than the present tower. Our power will increase from 18,540 watts to 20,000 watts; the antenna
height will increase from 302 ft. to 350 ft. Our primary signal (the signal measured at a certain minimum strength)
will increase in radius (from the tower) from 22 miles to about 25 miles. (4) Although WFAE’s signal will have
five times the wattage of WDAV’s, this does not indicate that it will have five times the range or five
times the coverage area. (5) The quotation about WFAE playing “nothing but jazz” should have been completed by the phrase
“in the late evenings.” As indicated earlier in the article, WFAE will carry a variety of programming. The idea that
WDAV will have to “compete” with WFAE is one that seems to preoccupy a lot of people at Davidson. Each
radio station on the air competes with all the others to some extent. But each station also strives to orient
its programming toward a particular segment of the overall audience, if it wants to remain viable. WDAV has worked to
build a loyal audience of classical music lovers by providing the best classical programming that our time and budget can
allow. While WFAE plans to carry some classical music in its proposed schedule, it will carry several other types of
programming too. Those who want that diversity (and there is much to be said for it) will choose WFAE. We
hope that those who want classical music will find WDAV the more desirable. We look upon the two stations as
complementing rather than competing, and I hope that those who are looking for some kind of “ratings war” between WDAV
and WFAE will be severely disappointed.

Ed McIntyre
Director, WDAV

Editor's Note—WFAE Operations Coordinator Paul Stribling told us this week that WFAE's musical programming was about 60% classical and 25-30%
jazz before it went off the air. Jazz will take up “a major portion of the evening” program at WFAE,
Stribling said. He expects no major changes from their former programming, but programming details will depend on a new program
director to be hired in December. Stribling said WFAE will have a static-free stereo signal range of 32 miles and
a mono signal range of 60 miles when it goes back on the air in January.

Lazzaro Not On Ballot

To the Editor:
For some strange reason, my name was not included on the ballots in the recent S.G.A. elections, however, I still
feel my candidacy was a moral victory. Although I was not elected, I will serve the students to the best
of my abilities, in an official capacity. I greatly appreciate the support I was given, and will endeavor to repay
that debt.

Paul Q. Lazzaro ’84

ATO Behavior

To the Editor:
I don't believe there is enough communication between students and Trustees; I am therefore pleased when Trustees do make an
effort to meet with students. The Trustees did just that by visiting Patterson Court eating houses for lunch last Friday.
I was a guest at ATO at the time. As two Trustees and one of their wives entered the house,
the stereo suddenly blared “Are we not men?/We are DEVO!” Continued silliness grew into insolence when many—if not most—house members
simultaneously tossed napkins at one of the Trustees and his wife. Most students, I expect, want to have some input
into College policy. They are thoughtful and have much to contribute. I am angry at those who would have it
appear otherwise.

John Siman ‘82

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters
must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson
College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Glenn Kellum, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Photography Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Jim Moore, Asst. Managing Editor
Jeff Mann, Graphics Assistant
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Laurie Soper, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
Lisa Buckley, Production Associate
Bernadette Walter, Production Associate
