2—The Davidsonian—October 3, 1980

Wood explains placement policy

By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

A recent issue of Esquire devoted its cover story to a question of great, if furtive, concern to Davidson students: “Who will make money in the 80s?” To show that the baby boom of the 1940s and 1950s will result in a glut of over-educated job seekers in the mid-1980s, Esquire printed the story of “Harold,” a hypothetical corporate executive with immaculate credentials stuck in this future squeeze. Frustrated by the seeming impossibility of scaling the corporate ladder, Harold throws himself off a New York skyscraper, ending his dreams of power and success.

However sensational Harold's story may be, the article does reflect an undercurrent of desperation among many college seniors preparing to enter the job market. Graduate schools, once a haven for 80 percent of Davidson's graduates, are now appearing far less attractive than in the past. With the value of graduate degrees falling due to the sheer numbers of people having them, many seniors will choose to enter the job market directly. Even the professions are no competition.

DAV to face competition

By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Correspondent

When WFAE, UNC-Charlotte’s radio station, starts broadcasting next year, it will not draw substantially from WDAV's audience, according to WFAE station manager Bo Pittman. WFAE, which is now off the air, used to be a 10-watt station broadcasting primarily classical music. In January, Pittman said, WFAE will boost its power to 100,000 watts and begin broadcasting music provided by National Public Radio (NPR). The NPR program covers a wide variety of material from which WFAE plans to choose mostly jazz and some classical music. In addition, WFAE will broadcast local news and other non-musical programs.

“We are looking to jazz for our basic music format,” Pittman said. “We don’t want to be in direct competition with public radio provided by Rock Hill and WDAV.” WDAV Station Manager Ed McIntyre admitted that WFAE’s programming could hurt WDAV but said most of the loss would be from the south side of Charlotte where the signal from WDAV is not strong anyway. “When given the choice between two similar programs at different signal strengths (the listeners) are going to choose the higher signal,” McIntyre said.

WDAV now broadcasts at 18,500 watts, one-fifth the power of WFAE’s future signal. However, McIntyre said that while WDAV’s wattage will probably not increase, the signal will improve with the installment of a new transmission tower. The new tower will be 50 feet higher, increasing the signal range by about five miles. Also, the tower will be closer to Charlotte, where WDAV’s audience is concentrated, McIntyre said. Construction of the tower awaits FCC approval. WDAV's current range is about 20 miles. WFAE hopes to have a 30 to 40 mile stereo range and about a 60 mile mono signal broadcast at 90.7 on the FM dial.

WFAE was also one of the reasons for a recent WDAV late-night programming change, according to McIntyre. About a month ago WDAV began playing a mixture of jazz, classical, and rock after 10 p.m. Earlier, McIntyre said, the station had switched at 10 from all classical to jazz or rock. Since WFAE will broadcast “nothing but jazz,” McIntyre said, this new programming will differentiate between two stations. “We don’t want to be duplicating what they’re doing.” McIntyre admitted that reaction to the change has been “mixed.” “We're after the music lovers — people willing to try different kinds of music,” he said.

(Continued from page 1)

return to his election board. The student will then receive his absentee ballot, which he must complete and mail back. Hairston described a simpler way. A blood relative can obtain an absentee ballot from the student’s home county election board and mail it to the student. Hairston said the Young Republicans had planned a joint effort with NC-PIRG to register students on campus, regardless of their hometowns. However, the organizations planned their effort too late to get a Mecklenburg County Board of Elections official to register students.

Other results of The Davidsonian poll show the following about students’ political inclinations:
—43% plan to vote for Reagan; 22% for Anderson; 19% for Carter; 2% for other candidates; and 13% expressed no preference.
—28% of those polled are registered Republicans; 26% are Democrats; 6% are registered with other parties; and 38% have no party affiliation.
—42% described themselves as moderate; 34% as conservative; and 15% as liberal.As liberal. Of the 125 students polled, 78 were men and 47 were women. Fifty were freshmen, 53 were sophomores, and 22 were upperclassmen. 

A report submitted this week to the Department of Health and Human Services in Washington predicted a surplus of 70,000 doctors by 1990, a surplus expected to double by the end of the century. Such figures have predictably increased career anxieties on the nation’s campuses. At Davidson, they have increased interest in present activities of the Center for Experiential Programs and Life Work Planning, which handles career study and job placement.

“I’ve heard a lot of concern from some upperclassmen that not enough corporations are coming to Davidson to interview students,” SGA President David Waddill said. “One guy asked me why Reynolds Tobacco doesn’t send anyone down when the president of the company is a Davidson graduate.”

Junior Elliot Stottler, chairperson of the SGA committee on Internships, Job Placement, and Corporate Relations, noted that “In not having recruiters here, Davidson students are a step behind students from other schools. I don’t particularly think we should push students to recruiters but we do need more of them to increase the choices available.”

“Davidson has traditionally had a good reputation with grad schools but given the present job situation we need to establish the same reputation with corporations.” The SGA is now conducting a survey of the senior class to determine their placement needs, Waddill said.

Ken Wood, Director of the Center, responded that “Students have to understand their interests, values, and skills before they look for a specific job. Too often people look at what’s available and then mold themselves into it. This is putting the cart before the horse.”

Dean of Students Will Terry agreed. “A senior has to know himself and see his strengths and weaknesses. The advantage of this approach is not just to go through placement but to learn to sell yourself to companies, which is especially important if you don’t find something right away.”

Wood pointed out that too many students begin thinking about careers too late. “Sophomore year is the best time to begin thinking. At that point, there's plenty of time to explore your interests through externships, internships, etc.”

“This identification of interests can’t be overemphasized. Recruiters are interested in students that have a sense of themselves and can demonstrate that.”

Wood disputed the charge that the Center has not devoted enough attention in the past to recruitment. “According to the Department of Labor, only 9% of college graduates find jobs through placement offices. The vast majority, 84%, find work through contacts, friends, relatives, and direct inquiries.”

News At A Glance

WDAV Personnel
There are two new faces at WDAV this year. Henry Doss took over three months ago as director of community relations. He will work to increase the station’s audibility. Joining Doss on the WDAV staff is Jan Weller, the station’s new production director. Weller is from Oxford, Ohio, where he worked at public radio station WMUB-FM. In addition to being program director, Weller will be WDAV’s weekday morning host.

Clarification
Last week The Davidsonian reported that the Board of Trustees will meet with the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) to “discuss possible curriculum changes and arrange a schedule for future tenure decisions.” The meeting will actually serve only to inform the Trustees of meeting times with tenure candidates during winter term, according to Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann.

In addition, Zimmermann said the EPC will present their proposals for curriculum changes to the Trustees. The Trustees will make no decision, however. “The Trustees have delegated responsibility for educational policy to the faculty,” Zimmermann said. The EPC will present its proposals to the faculty sometime next week, according to Zimmermann. The proposals, which Zimmermann said are “not major,” call for changes in the Area Distribution Requirements. “At the present moment there is no clear rationale for the requirements,” Zimmermann said, “We think our proposals make them more systematic and comprehensive.”

The proposals would have to be passed by late February, the deadline for the College catalogue, in order to affect next year’s freshman class. They would not affect present students. Zimmermann said he expects there will be several open meetings within the faculty before any vote is held. “The EPC will certainly hold a hearing under the auspices of the SGA if there is student interest,” he added.

Faye Dunaway
William Holden
Network
Friday night. 8 & 10:30 in Love
$1.50 or SEASON PASS