6—The Davidsonian—April 11, 1980

The Carolina Inn & President’s House

The Carolina Inn used to be a hotel.

The Tavares (left to right) Chubby, Butch, Ralph, Pooch, and Tiny, will rock the Gym on Saturday, April 19.

By MELISSA MCKEITHEN
Staff Writer

Almost everyone knows that the original Chambers building burned down in 1921 and the Oak and Elm Rows were among the original campus buildings. However, many of the college buildings have backgrounds that are not so well known.

For example, the building which now houses the Center for Special Studies was built in 1848 and served as a store and an inn until the early 1900s. In the 1920s and 30s, it was used as a boarding house for visiting college girls or “prom-trotters,” as they were called, who traveled from The Citadel to Princeton, including Davidson among their stops along the way.

The college bought the inn in 1946 and restored it in 1971 to its 1870s appearance.

The President’s home is another building with an interesting history. Built in 1836-37, it too was among the first college buildings, originally a simple two-story brick home. Through the years it has undergone four major additions which have contributed to its present form.

College Archivist Dr. Chalmers Davidson has written a book entitled The Plantation World Around Davidson. One of Davidson’s stories deals with the first occupants of the house, President Robert Hall Morrison and his family. Mrs. Morrison, a planter’s daughter from a prominent Lincoln County family, felt that the simple two-story home was a step down from what she was accustomed to. She discouraged her daughters from marrying college professors, urging them instead to marry men with money. Only one, however, heeded her advice by marrying a businessman from Charlotte. The others married college professors.

Mrs. Morrison reportedly was quite proud of her daughter’s wealth and gave it a prominent place in conversation when the opportunity presented itself. The professors failed to gain the same approval. But when the Civil War broke out, the wealthy son-in-law became relatively obscure while the professors went on to gain considerable recognition as Confederate Generals. The most famous of these was General “Stonewall” Jackson.

A second house was built where Cunningham parking lot now stands during the term of Samuel Williamson, the second President of the college. This house served as the President's house for a time and the “Morrison House” was the home of various professors until Colonel W.J. Martin II occupied it again as President of the College. Its appearance was “substantially that of the present” according to Dr. Davidson. It was painted gray with a long porch across the front and was not particularly appealing in appearance.

When the Trustees eventually proposed construction of a new house, the President at the time, D. Grier Martin, proposed instead to remodel the house. Thus, in 1959 the house underwent the changes that led to its present appearance.

It is common knowledge that Grey College Union was once the library, but few students know that Carnegie Guest House was once Carnegie Library. It was remodeled as a guest house in 1941, then served as a temporary student union from 1972-1975. The building was reconverted into its present state as a guest house in 1976, at a cost of about $200,000. It has eight rooms available for guests of the college. The basement of Carnegie, formerly the student store, now contains five rooms and a kitchen, housing for upperclass women.

Over 200 graduate and undergraduate courses
Sessions: Pre—May 19-June 13
First—June 9-July 12
Second—July 14-August 15
Cross—June 9/23-August 1
ABROAD

O Siena, Italy—Italian
O Trier, W. Germany—German
O Dijon, France—French
O Quito, Ecuador—Spanish

TOWN MEETING

for area college students
UNCC McKnight Lecture Hall
Monday, April 14 8 PM

Congressman Jim Martin wants to listen to you. No formal speeches—just conversation.

Mail to: School for Summer and Continuing Education
Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 20057 or Call (202) 625-3001
Georgetown University is an equal opportunity affirmative action institution in employment and admissions.