nainnshivell ant —ORRT _& t9cininO ee oe

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Trustee Meetings Hard to Cover

Dear Members of the Board of Trustees:

I have been talking with students about this week’s Trustee meeting and I’m afraid that many students have come to see the Board of Trustees as an uncaring and faceless body that sets College policy without regard for student needs or desires. Partially because of this perception, students feel removed from College problems and cannot understand why they should want to be part of the solution to these problems.

But I think that Trustees such as yourself do care, and I think that if students understood how the Trustees make their decisions and why, they would want to help the College meet its challenges instead of apathetically shrugging their shoulders as they often do now. I would like for you to help The Davidsonian change the way students view the Board of Trustees and Trustee policy. I am asking that you allow a member of The Davidsonian staff to sit in on your meetings and objectively report what happens.

Although Davidsonian access to Trustee meetings certainly will not change students’ attitudes overnight, this is one step we can take to make students feel more a part of the College decision-making process and feel less hostile or apathetic towards Trustee policy. The more students know about Trustee decisions, the less anger and frustration they will feel when those decisions do not go their way. And to look at the question in a financial light, I think the more students feel a part of the decision-making process now, the more likely they will be to give money to the school as alumni.

The Davidsonian will always report Trustee meetings as accurately and fairly as possible, but we think we could do a much better job if we could actually attend the meetings instead of getting our information second or third hand. Allowing the SGA President to attend the meetings is certainly a step in the right direction, but the SGA President is not in a position to objectively report Trustee actions since in some cases he would be reporting decisions in which he took part or strongly opposed. Lines of communication between the student body and the SGA aren’t always that strong or helpful anyway.

We quote from the latest copy of “Highlights” from the SGA minutes which the SGA posts in dormitories: “Mike Daisley spoke to the crowd about development and the 1987 program. Explained what was meant by Endowment funds and then proceeded to give more facts and figures than Dr. Nelson before a Macro final! Did you know that even though your tuition and costs are as high as they are, they only pay for 58% of the cost to run the College. He concluded by saying a little about the upcoming Tele-Phonathon. More about that some other time.”

Communications between Trustees and students should be as direct as possible. Surely students should be well informed about decisions that can strongly affect their lives here. Students do pay 58% of the cost of attending Davidson and deserve to know how their money is handled. As we noted in a front-page article in last week’s Davidsonian, allowing a student reporter into Trustee meetings is standard procedure at some schools. I hope it soon will be at Davidson as well.

Mark Barrett
Editor, The Davidsonian

“IT MUST BE THE ELECTORAL EQUIVALENT OF WAR.”

The Campus Forum

Bingham Delivers

To the Editor:

Gene Bingham is “concerned about the needs and wants of the students.” This is visible in both his Statement of Purpose as Athletic Director and his manner of approach to students. This concern should be expressed by an effort to provide facilities and staff in proportional quality and quantity to meet the interestdemonstrated in a particular sport by the students," he says. The first element must be student interest, followed by an assessment of the sport’s actual needs, and finally by raising the money necessary to provide facilities and staff. Mr. Bingham is ready and willing to work with students, as demonstrated by his enthusiasm for and encouragement of the women’s club volleyball team. There has been considerable interest for several years in the formation of a women’s volleyball team. Finally, in response to this interest, the Athletic Department has supported the establishment of a team on the club sport level, and has agreed to purchase equipment for IMAC, P.E., and club use. This is one of the ways in which Mr. Bingham has responded to student interest. There are certain limitations under which the Athletic Director must work: Trustee approval, financial restraints, and student interest. The entire college is under the guidance of the Trustees, so Mr. Bingham is no different from anyone else. Gene Bingham is ready and willing to work in order to provide funds to support student interest, but we, the student body, must first demonstrate that interest.

Debby Carlton ’81

Bacon on Studies

Studies serve for delight, for ornament, and for ability. Their chief use for delight is in privateness and retiring; for ornament, is in discourse; and for ability, is in the judgment and disposition of business. For expert men can execute, and perhaps judge of particulars, one by one; but the general counsels, and the plots and marshaling of affairs, come best from those that are learned. To spend too much time in studies is sloth; to use them too much for ornament is affectation; to make judgment wholly by their rules is the humor of a scholar. They perfect nature, and are perfected by experience; for natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning by study; and studies themselves do give forth directions too much at large, except they be bounded in by experience. Crafty men contemn studies, simple men admire them, and wise men use them, for they teach not their own use; but that is a wisdom without them, and above them, won by observation. Read not to contradict and confute, nor to believe and take for granted, nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider. Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested; that is, some books are to be read only in parts; others to be read, but not curiously; and some few to be read wholly, and with diligence and attention. Some books also may be read by deputy and extracts made of them by others, but that would be only in the less important arguments and the meaner sort of books; else distilled books are like common distilled waters, flashy things.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.

Laurie Soper, Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Brian McMaster, Circulation Manager
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Photography Editor
Glenn Kellum, Asst. News Editor
Harold Lloyd, Asst. Opinions Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Linda Hulburt, Asst. Managing Editor
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate