THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 7
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
October 31, 1980

Reactions to EPC proposals almost entirely negative

This article is the first of two concerning faculty and student reaction to last week's EPC proposals. Next week's installment will focus on practical objections to the proposals.

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Reaction by faculty and students to the Educational Policy Committee's core curriculum proposals has been critical. The major issues raised were whether the proposal’s educational philosophy was justified and what the proposal’s effects would be on staffing and course offerings.

The EPC released its proposals last week. (see The Davidsonian, Oct. 24) The proposals, subject to faculty approval, call for more stringent distribution requirements and the addition of a mathematics competency and a required fourth term of foreign language. Faculty members discussed the proposals with EPC members at an open meeting Monday, while approximately two dozen students attended an open session with the EPC Wednesday. The faculty will probably have at least one more open meeting before the proposals are formally introduced at the November 4 faculty meeting, according to EPC student member Elizabeth.

In general, regardless of differences of opinion, faculty members complimented the EPC on the quality of their work. The proposals ‘‘reflect a lot of care,” Philosophy Professor Lance Stell said. However, many objected to the increased rigidity of the proposed core curriculum. The Philosophy Department, in a prepared statement read by Chairman Earl MacCormac at Monday’s meeting, stated, ‘‘As a matter of principle [we] oppose requiring students to take courses in any particular discipline.’’ Instead, the department proposed giving non-credit remedial courses to those who needed them.

The implication of the “captive audience” effect, as Economics Chairman Charles Ratliff called it, in required courses troubled some faculty members. “I want people to take philosophy,” Stell said, “because they want to take it.” Students objected to what senior Don Caldwell called the ‘‘paternalistic” attitude of the requirements. Caldwell recommended that advising rather than requiring be used to ensure that students receive an adequate liberal arts education. “When you require a lot of specific (See EPC, page 2)

Defense, economy issues

Look Homeward, Angel opens Thursday night in Hodson Hall.

Students think laundry fee unfair

By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

A majority of Davidson students feel the $200 mandatory laundry fee is unfair, according to a Davidsonian survey of 148 randomly selected students. Two weeks ago at an Open End meeting with College President Samuel Spencer, several students agreed to form an ad hoc committee to study student dissatisfaction with the laundry. The committee has met twice since then with Business Manager Robert Currie to discuss plausible alternatives to the mandatory fee policy, according to committee member June Daniel.

At the Open End meeting, students argued that laundry service should be optional so that those who choose not to use it are not forced to pay the annual fee. Students polled by The Davidsonian showed that seventy-five percent of all students polled called the present mandatory fee system unfair. Only 10 percent of the women and 35 percent of the men said the mandatory fee is fair. The laundry services are not used by 11 percent of the surveyed students. All but one of the 64 men surveyed do use the laundry service, while 31 percent of the women do not.

Three percent of the students rated the laundry service excellent; 47 percent good; 38 percent fair; and 10 percent poor. Men were generally more pleased with the service quality than women: 17 percent of the women but only 5 percent of the men labeled the service poor. If the $200 fee were optional, 66 percent of the students said they would opt for the service and pay it. Of the men, 78 percent would continue to pay the fee, while 50 percent of the women said they would. Several men pointed out that laundry (See Laundry, page 2)

at Presidential Forum

By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

Over 100 students andProfessors heard the views of the four major presidential candidates at an election forum Tuesday. Supporters of Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, John Anderson, and Libertarian Party candidate Ed Clark made statements on domestic and foreign affairs at the forum, which was sponsored by the North Carolina Student Legislature and the Union Speaker's Committee. Also present was a camera team from WRHE-TV. The Charlotte station later broadcast segments of the forum, according to forum organizers Sherri Frazier and Laura Perry.

Carter’s representative was Fran Wells, a 1980 Democratic National Convention delegate and state Democratic Party Executive Committee member. UNC-Charlotte Human Development Gion Sude represented Republican candidate Reagan. Phil Fryberger, a campaign worker from Charlotte, spoke for independent candidate John Anderson, and Philosophy Professor Lance Stell spoke for Libertarian candidate Ed Clark.

In the field of foreign affairs, Wells defended Carter's policy of “influence by example,” claiming that it is a policy of reason and not force. Reagan, Wells maintained, has recommended the use of military force nine times in the past twelve years. If elected, Reagan would use force instead of a human rights policy such as that employed by Carter. Wells emphasized that Reagan has called for the scrapping of the SALT II Treaty while Carter still backs the treaty and will reintroduce it to the Senate (See Forum, page 11).

Cable TV on the way
By ANN MITCHELL
Staff Writer

Cable television is coming to the town of Davidson, according to Mayor Nancy MacCormac. The Town Board has asked Tar River Communications (the Lake Norman Television Company) to present a franchise proposal for the town to study, MacCormac said. The board will probably vote on the franchise proposal at next month’s town meeting, MacCormac said. If the board decides to accept the Tar River franchise, cable television service could begin in about eighteen months.

The board passed an ordinance at the last town meeting to set regulations for cable television. Since there is no national regulatory board for cable TV, MacCormac said, guidelines to protect citizens are set on a local level. (See Cable, page 2)

Budget covers everything from dorms to athletics to instruction
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Students each pay $4100 annually for tuition and about $2000 more for room, board, and laundry. The money paid in by students—almost $7 million total—covers about 60 percent of the College’s $11 million annual operating budget.

How does the College spend this money? About 80 percent of the College’s operating budget falls in one of five areas: instruction, athletics, operation and maintenance of the physical plant, auxiliary enterprises, and general institutional expenses.

Instruction, which includes faculty compensation and departmental expenses, is the largest single area of spending. According to Comptroller Robert Davidson, the College appropriated 30 percent of its operating budget—$3.3 million—to instruction in the academic year 1979-80. This year the College is spending $3.5 million on instruction, up $220,000 from 1979-80 and up $500,000 from 1978-79. However, although the amount spent on instruction has increased each year, the percentage of the budget allocated to instruction has remained constant.

Compensation to the faculty was $2.8 million in 1979-80, Davidson said. This figure includes items such as social security, faculty children’s tuition, housing subsidies, and insurance as well as wages. Davidson estimates actual paychecks totaled $2.3 million for 100 faculty members in 1979-80. Money budgeted for instruction also covers all expenses for science labs, the Math Department's use of the computer, and a variety of other things professors use to supplement classwork.

Athletics
This year the College plans to spend $735,000 on intercollegiate athletics and physical education, down from $768,000 in 1979-80, according to Davidson. The athletics budget had been increasing: it was $696,000 in 1977-78 and $704,000 in 1978-79. “I think there was a feeling that there was some fat in the athletic budget,” Davidson said to explain this year’s cut. Since the athletic budget is not appropriated by sport, no one knows yet exactly what areas within the (See Budget, page 11)