Davidsonian typesetter Margaret Jackson has great hands.

(Trey Thies)

Seminar visits Transcendental Meccas

By AIDA DOSS
Features Editor

It’s not too often that education can be taken out of the classroom—even on a warm spring afternoon. Bees, nosy dogs, and the threat of rain generally combine to make the outdoor classroom a dangerous proposition. But sometimes, the class may go further than merely outside the building, as one of my classes did this past weekend.

Last Thursday morning at 3 a.m., six members of Professor Randy Nelson’s Transcendentalism seminar began a journey to Concord, Massachusetts. We were off for a quick look at the stomping grounds of Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Bronson Alcott, and other literary beacons of the mid-nineteenth century philosophical movement.

Our first pilgrimage was to Walden Pond, the site of Henry David Thoreau’s famous experiment in self-reliant living. The pond is preserved and maintained by the state and is kept in its natural condition as much as possible. Irregularly shaped, with coves and inlets pockmarking its perimeter, the pond lay calm and clear. We meandered along its shore, stopping now and then to stare out over the water or to examine the various mosses along the bank or to listen to the numerous bird sounds which carried over the pond.

On a slight rise about 200 feet from the water, several granite blocks connected by a heavy chain mark the site of the cabin which Thoreau built for himself in 1845. Further up the hill, the railroad tracks (toward which the man in the woods remained ambivalent) ran past on their way to Concord, only about two miles away. Contrary to popular belief, Thoreau was not a hermit and did not shun the town’s society; his main purpose in moving to Walden Pond was, instead, a journey of self-knowledge and exploration, a journey to discover his own attitudes about the way he desired to spend his life.

On the second day of our visit, we were privileged to meet Tom Blanding, a friend of Dr. Nelson’s and a prominent Thoreau scholar. He guided us around several of the graveyards in town where various Revolutionary War heroes and town politicians were buried. The tour culminated with a hike up to Author’s Ridge where many of the major and minor Transcendentalist writers lay buried. Considering Thoreau’s penchant for simplicity, his own headstone was not surprising—a simple marker about six inches high with the name “Henry” on it in the Thoreau family plot.

Later that afternoon, we visited the Old Manse where Emerson and later Hawthorne had done some of their writing. Sophia Peabody, Hawthorne’s wife, apparently had a fetish for scratching on windows with a diamond; several panes are littered with epigrams and messages to Nathaniel.

We also toured the Emerson house, a large structure befitting a scholar of Emerson’s stature. Some of its outstanding features included a large bay window in the second-story master bedroom, a handmade dollhouse (with furniture) for the children, and several beautiful and intricately designed carpets.

Our third visit Saturday afternoon was to the Thoreau Lyceum, a sort of museum in which some of Thoreau’s furniture, letters, and personal artifacts were housed. Here, Blanding talked freely of Thoreau, who had merely passed away a few years earlier, retelling anecdotes and observations Thoreau had made in the journals.

(See Walden, page 6)

DAVIDSON INFERNO

LIGHT UP AT 8:00
ON MAY 14
LOVE AUDITORIUM

ADMISSION: $1.00 OR
50¢ AND A BANANA

proceeds go to Kenya

The Tonsure

BARBER STYLING 892-1933

featuring:
Precision Hair Cuts Razor Cuts
Perms Coloring
Blow-Drying Beard Design

Main St., Cornelius (across from Western Auto)

College students have only one word for health insurance

Intra-Med

The college student's answer to health insurance. Intra-Med short-term hospital-surgical-medical coverage designed by the Kemper Group to cover you during summer vacations or during that short period between graduation and the time you qualify for medical coverage at your new job. Intra-Med health insurance designed for you.

For more information, mail the coupon or call George H. Raynes at Raynes Insurance, 1409 East Boulevard, Charlotte, N.C. 28203, (704) 334-2369.

Yes! I'd like to know more about Intra-Med. I understand I am under no obligation to buy.

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
Telephone Number
Best time to call
day
evening

Because there's a two-year Army ROTC program, in case you missed taking ROTC in your first two years of college.

You'll have to work to catch up during the summer before your junior year. But in two years you'll earn about $2,900, more than half of which is tax-free. Then you'll earn an officer’s commission at the same time you earn a college degree. But mail the coupon now. Because by the time you're a junior, it'll be too late.

Army ROTC

Please send me more information about the Army ROTC two-year program.

Name
Address
City
County
State
Zip
Phone
College Attending
Graduation Date