_ Sha Na Na

The Back Page

| Wind Ensemble Concert

The Wind Ensemble will have its first performance Tuesday, January 29 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall.

The program includes two pieces from Serge Prokofiev’s "Lieutenant Kijé": "Wedding of Kijé" and "Troika", arranged by Fisher Tull; "Petite
Symphonie" composed by Charles Gounod; and in the second half, Igor Stravinsky’s "Pulcinella Suite", arranged by William Lawing. Directed by
William Lawing, the Wind Ensemble has twenty-eight members this year.

900 Room

"With an essentially all-new program, it is the hardest and most ambitious program we have done," said conductor Bill Lawing
about the Jazz Ensemble’s upcoming concerts this weekend in the 900 Room. "The program incorporates many different jazz styles and
a variety of pieces—less of the old swing favorites and more contemporary ones."

Some of the old standards will include "Moon River", "My Man’s Gone Now", "I Get a Kick Out of You"
with an added surprise, and "St. Louis Blues". The Jazz Ensemble has twenty-one members and will be introducing a brand
new rhythm section. There will also be two special guests.

"From an overall standpoint," said Lawing, "it's our best program." Showtime is 10:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday nights.

Poet on Campus

New York poet Joel Oppenheimer will give an informal reading of his poetry Friday morning, January 25, in the Morrison
Room at 10:00 a.m.

This is Oppenheimer’s fourth annual visit to Davidson College. He has just completed a two-week residency at St. Andrew’s in
Laurinburg as poet-in-residence.

A free verse poet, Oppenheimer has published three volumes of poetry: "In Time", "The Love Bit", and "On Occasion". He
has also written a play, "The Great American Desert", and a book, "The Wrong Season", describing his career as a
baseball fan. Oppenheimer writes in a straightforward manner, opening himself up to his readers.

The Gallery

Exploring the contemporary subject of the mobile home court, Martha Strawn’s exhibition of photographs is currently showing in the Art
Gallery until January 28.

With an anthropological intent, Strawn tries to present the mobile home as she believes the owners view them. Her study
of mobile homes "stems from her study of Greek shrines"; she has "treated the homes as shrines." (Charlotte Observer) Ms.
Strawn is an associate professor of photography in the creative arts department at UNCC.

Concerts

Aerosmith January 27, 8:00 p.m. Charlotte Coliseum
$7 advance, $8 at the door. Call 372-3600

February 8, 8:00 p.m. Greensboro Coliseum

Eagles January 29, 8:00 p.m. Greensboro Coliseum
$12.50, $10.50, $7.50 at box office. Call (919) 294-2870

Styx February 2, 8:00 p.m. Greensboro Coliseum
No ticket information yet

February 8, 8:00 p.m. Charlotte Coliseum
$6, $7, $8 at box office. Call 372-3600.

In Charlotte

For those interested in such non-profit areas as social work, arts administration, government positions, etc., there will be a one-day
seminar on Not-For-Profit Management February 8 in Charlotte. It will be sponsored by the Davidson College Pre-Management Committee. The purpose
of the seminar is to increase interaction between Davidson students and area managers so that students can better understand the
rewards and frustrations of a career in non-profit management.

The schedule for the seminar includes a presentation by Dr. McGlaughlin, a non-profit management expert from UNC-CH; small group discussions;
and a reception which will give students a chance to meet approximately 15 non-profit managers from the Charlotte area.

A sign-up sheet will be posted on 2nd Chambers, outside Dr. Ratliff's office. There will be a profit-oriented Management seminar
in the spring.

Seventh of May will be appearing at Rusk on Friday.

Events on Campus

Thursday, January 24

7:30 & 9:00 Winter Major Drama Production: Workshop Theater
Dylan Thomas’ "Under Milk Wood" Hodson Hall
Tickets $1.50, $1 for students

10:00 Disco sponsored by Black Student Coalition 900 Room

Friday, January 25

10:00 a.m. Coffee & Informal Reading Morrison Room
with Joel Oppenheimer

7:30 Drama Production: "Under Milk Wood" Workshop Theater
8 & 10:30 Pop Film: "The Deep" Love
10:00 Jazz Ensemble 900 Room
Band Party featuring Seventh of May Rusk

Saturday, January 26

10:00 Jazz Ensemble 900 Room

Sunday, January 27

8:15 Student Recital: Alice Musick, flute
and Joanna Hunt, oboe
Hodson Hall

Tuesday, January 29

8:00 Fine Film: "Adam's Rib" Love
8:15 Wind Ensemble Concert Hodson Hall
10:00 Big Sister/Little Sister Study Break Rusk
with hot chocolate & honey buns

Wednesday, January 30

12:30 Open Luncheon

Don't Forget

Mid Winters Weekend, February 1 & 2, rapidly approaches. The theme will be "Mardi Gras." Check next week’s backpage for
"Best Dining Bets" and a schedule of activities, some of which include a concert with John Prine, a Theater Workshop
presentation, and a formal dance with Jimmy Farr’s Band.

Edited by Jean Soracco
