THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

A Role To Play

The French novelist Albert Camus once noted that no writer can be a complete cynic because the very act of writing demonstrates at least some belief in the world’s goodness. In somewhat the same fashion, no one can edit The Davidsonian well unless they believe in Davidson College. I believe in Davidson’s potential, and I believe The Davidsonian can play a very significant role in making Davidson better.

To do this, The Davidsonian must report news about or affecting Davidson in hopes of interesting and, most importantly, informing its readership. The more information the members of a community have about it, the easier it is for them to improve it.

Presently, the most important news concerns Davidson’s financial situation and its vast effect on many areas of the College such as faculty salaries and athletics. These issues are not always pleasant to discuss and many students find them very boring. As a result, The Davidsonian has not adequately fulfilled its duty to interest readers under my editorship. Yet the biggest question on the mind of anyone who really cares about the College must be how to ensure that hard financial times do not lower the quality of the Davidson education which we all value, and it is The Davidsonian’s responsibility to cover the many different aspects of this question.

The Davidsonian must inform and educate its readers instead of merely reminding them of things they already know. A good newspaper does not run stories revealing the fact that the sun rises in the east and sets in the west. I have not often used The Davidsonian to remind students that we have an excellent faculty, for example. It is not news to me that Davidson is a good school, and I doubt it would be news to many others here.

The Davidsonian must be truly critical in order to really serve the College community. Davidson is not perfect, and I have based many of my editorials on the premise that people here are committed to making Davidson better and will benefit from an examination of some of Davidson’s problems. The Davidsonian must present these problems to the campus community and suggest solutions to them if possible.

Yet students and administration have misinterpreted both my editorials and their intent. People still think The Davidsonian is against minor sports even though our concern for minor sports has been a large motivation behind The Davidsonian’s coverage of the athletic budget. (For example: “We hope the College recognizes the importance of minor sports and funds them accordingly” appears in a December 5 editorial. In my lead editorial of October 14, I say “Budgets for so-called ‘minor sports’ should not suffer at the expense of pumping more money into football and basketball.”) Readers have labeled this critical approach as “negative” and maintain it is bad for Davidson. I cannot see how pointing out Davidson’s problems and offering solutions is negative. Instead, I feel that identifying Davidson’s weaknesses is the first step towards making it a better place.

I have not spent 40 to 50 hours a week at the expense of study and sleep to tear down Davidson. Davidson and Davidson people have done much for me, and I am very glad I have had the opportunity to partially return the favor. I feel confident The Davidsonian will continue to contribute to Davidson's well-being and urge you to support its efforts to do so with your readership and suggestions.

I have never been more proud of any group of people I have known than of The Davidsonian staff. Its members are hard-working people who sacrifice their time and effort to serve the College as well as because they enjoy the work. The College community should be grateful for their excellent efforts over the past year. And I, of course, thank them for their support and commend them on a job well done.

—Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Congratulations
To the Editor:

We want to express our appreciation to those who supported and encouraged us in our bid for editorship of The Davidsonian. Thanks for sticking with us even when the going got rough. Congratulations to Elizabeth and John. Let’s give them our full support. We are confident that a change in the paper’s leadership will be good for Davidson.

Jean Soracco ’82
Bill Purcell ’82

No Excuse
To the Editor:

After an untimely resurrection from my shadowy demise-by-audio cone last Thursday, I felt the need to respondTo SAE President Blaine Sanders’ chilling rebuttal to my audacious complaint of one week prior, concerning the SAE party of December 1. Despite what Mr. Sanders implied, I have nothing against ‘blowing off a little steam’ after a long hard Thanksgiving break. My complaint, representing many prudes and study nerds in Belk and other dorms, was solely directed at the needless blasting of music from the house at 2 a.m. Whether such racket is made by the pillars of the campus community or the Franciscan friars is of little matter to someone who is trying to get some sleep on a weeknight. My conclusion, that the SAEs must not be concerned with being models of fraternity living, was, admittedly, rash and unfair. But by answering defensively when a simple apology would have sufficed, Mr. Sanders’ reply can only have served to tarnish the reputation of what must otherwise be, by his own proofs, a good, respectable fraternity.
_ John Krotchko ’83

Registration Update
To the Editor:
During the week of January 5, 1981, those males born in 1962 will be legally required to register for the draft. Whether to do so or not is a difficult choice. Here are some facts that you may not know about the draft and registration:
—There will be no education, Peace Corps, or Vista exemptions under the new draft, as currently proposed.
—There is currently no mechanism for registering for conscientious objector status or any other status prior to receiving your induction notice.
—According to current proposals, you will have 10 days from the date the draft notice is mailed to file for conscientious objector or other exemption status.
—According to current proposals, if you are once denied conscientious objector status, there will be no appeal.
—During the time, most of the discovered non-registrants were given a second opportunity to register and were not prosecuted if they complied.
—The maximum penalty for refusal to register or advocating non-registration is five years imprisonment and/or a $10,000 fine. It should be noted that never has the maximum penalty been imposed on anyone for either of these felonies.
—A conservative government estimate says that 7% of eligible males did not register this past summer. This is approximately 290,000 people. (Roughly 10% times the capacity of the federal prison system.)
—You are not legally required to fill in your social security number on your registration form. This could be important if you are considering draft evasion, as it will probably improve your chance of avoiding being found.
—There has never been registration without a draft, and never a draft without a war.
If you are confused and need more information or just someone to talk to, there will be someone available in the Conversation Pit of the Davidson College Union from 7-9 p.m. January 5-9, or you can call 892-1503.
Emily Partin ’80
Erik Christensen ‘82
Frizzle Willis '80
Geoff Little '81
Jeannie McIntyre '82
Members of the Davidson Registration and Draft Information Service

Thanks for Help
To the Editor:
During my student days here, a distinguished alumnus in government told the assembled student body during a convocation, “I see constantly in Davidson graduates...the spirit of service. This sense of obligation to do something beyond your own narrow in-

More Campus Forum on page 4

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Glenn Kellum, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Features Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Jim Moore, Asst. Managing Editor
Jeff Mann, Graphics Assistant
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Laurie Soper, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
Lisa Buckley, Production Associate
Bernadette Walter, Production Associate