THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

We commend President Spencer for his proposal that faculty and staff compensation be increased by an average of 12.5%. Dr. Spencer's recommendation is a bold and apparently unprecedented move designed to begin to deal with the College’s most serious problem. Both the compensation increase and the accompanying $575 hike in student fees will be the highest in recent memory if enacted. Dr. Spencer's move is also unusual since it is the first time he has made any budget recommendations prior to the Trustees' budget meeting. But drastic measures are certainly called for, and cannot be confined merely to student fees. As Dr. Spencer has recognized, the present low level of faculty compensation cannot be ignored any longer, or talked away by sometimes dubious comparisons with other schools. Our faculty is our most important asset, and this hurts us all.

Objectors
To the Editor:

President Carter’s proposal to resume draft registration combined with events in the Middle East, verbal commitments to India and Pakistan, and the discussion of the use of tactical nuclear weapons bring war much closer to the front of American minds. Young people in this country have not been well prepared for this sudden shift in the national mood. Many Davidson students are unsure about what registration and the draft mean for them as citizens, as human beings, as members of religious groups, and as free individuals. Some say they could not be involved with actual killing; some feel the government has no claim to their lives; some are philosophically opposed to any involvement with warfare or the military. Most have not thought about it seriously before.

To aid in the dissemination of information, offer counseling and support, and aid each student in making an informed decision, we would like to announce the formation of the Davidson Committee on Conscientious Objection. Our first campus-wide meeting will be an informal open forum on Registration, the Draft, and Conscientious Objection. This will happen Tuesday.

Jon Lawry’s Mom Replies To B&B
To the Editor:

The other day as I was delivering my son Jon’s chicken soup and clean long underwear, I happened to notice that his pet bird appeared to be terribly loose, if you know what I mean. It so happens that Jon had placed a few recent editions of your newspaper in the bottom of the bird’s cage. Well, I thought, this bird has some potential as a critic. As I removed the paper and replaced it with the Mooresville Tribune, I noticed your January 24 and 31 Bonehead and Brick Brothers’ articles with references about my son, Jon. Shame on you for writing such things about this poor boy.

As a small college, Davidson necessarily asks a lot of its professors. Faculty members participate in many committees governing such disparate areas as Watson Fellows nominees and Honor Code appeals. Davidson professors must teach much more than publish, meaning that they must sacrifice most hopes of employment elsewhere. To reward them with such small amounts of money is a damaging injustice which Dr. Spencer's recommendations would help rectify if enacted. An average of $20,731 is not a fair salary for men and women who, for the most part, after long years of education and training, have dedicated their lives to the College.

While 50 Americans are being held hostage in Iran, we must not forget the importance of maintaining the quality of education at Davidson and treating our employees fairly. If the Trustees are at all concerned with maintaining the quality of education at Davidson and treating our employees fairly, they have no immediate recourse but to approve all of Dr. Spencer’s recommendations.Years earning their Ph.D., US doctorates, are asked to put in long hours in personalized guided help. A resourceful, self-reliant “Hava Nagila” I have heard. So, go ahead, make fun of my poor weak-eyed son. I am sure Beverly Lawry Mooresville, N.C. P.S. I am sure your reward will not be good grades in English. It is “weren’t here,” not “wasn’t here.”

Editor's note: We checked, and this letter really was written by Phil Caine.

“Not only would enactment of Dr. Spencer's recommendations help right a financial wrong done to the faculty, but it would prevent a serious drop in the quality of education. The consistent decline of faculty salaries against inflation for the past ten years has, along with administrative inaction, resulted in a dangerously low level of faculty morale. Although Davidson professors have a great deal of integrity, it stands to reason that if they were underpaid and disillusioned, they would find it more difficult to retain older faculty members.”

The Davidson Committee on Education welcomes letters and information. There will be a meeting on Tuesday night, February 19 at 7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. There will be many opportunities to air your questions and feelings. The meeting will not be long, but it could matter very much to you in the coming year. Everyone is welcome.

To the Editor:

I have attended many basketball games, but never have I been so involved that I felt as if I were playing the game. At least not until the Women’s Basketball game Thursday night, January 24. Every time the Wildcattes took the ball down the court, I wanted to make that basket as much as the team did.

There is something different about Women’s Basketball. The radiation of energy and excitement by the Women’s team snatches the spectators into the game. The team has such determination that the fans can’t help getting involved. It was one of the most exciting games that I have seen and I can’t believe I have missed the past two seasons.

What disappoints me is the following of the Women’s team. Not only do they deserve a much larger crowd but the students also owe it to themselves to go see this dynamic display. The next chance to see the Women’s team play at home is Monday, February 18, at 5:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Let's all get together and support the team. We'll be glad we did.

Renee Hedgepeth '81

Davidson graduates’ willingness to volunteer as teachers in Kenya is a phenomenon which I hope will become a proud tradition of Davidson. There is, however, an inherent flaw in Davidson’s service to Kenya. Davidson graduates experience a different culture (as I am) — What disappoints me is the following of the Women’s team. Not only do they deserve a much larger crowd but the students also owe it to themselves to go see this dynamic display. The next chance to see the Women’s team play at home is Monday, February 18, at 5:00 p.m. in Johnston Gym. Let's all get together and support the team. We'll be glad we did.

Renee Hedgepeth '81