Baseball Undefeated in Conference
By STOKES PEEBLES
Staff Writer

After sweeping a doubleheader from Appalachian State Saturday afternoon, Davidson is in first place in the Southern Conference baseball standings for the first time in several years. The Wildcats boast a 4-0 conference record along with an overall mark of 8-6. The Cats definitely have the potential of having a winning season along with remaining at the top of the Conference standings.

Coach Palmer Muench lists several reasons for the Wildcats' emergence as a conference power. “I attribute a lot of the early season success to the year-round program,” he stated, “but basically we are doing it with defense which in turn doesn’t put pressure on the offense. We’re free to hit without worrying about catching up.”

Coach Muench is extremely pleased with the way the three freshmen players, Phil Gordon, John Marshall, and Bobby Barnes, have come through. Captain Cam Zurbruegg had high praise for the freshmen. He remarked, “John Marshall's consistent hitting and Bobby Barnes’ clutch hitting have been strong additions to the team’s talent.” But Zurbruegg was quick to note that the upperclassmen were still the team’s leaders in hitting and pitching. He cited John Haskell’s hitting (leading the team with a .358 average and 2 home runs) and strong pitching from Diggs Bishop (3-0) and Jon Young (4-2) as important factors as well.

The Cats’ power hitting and pitching were evidenced in last week’s games in which Davidson went 2-1. They started off the week with a loss to West Virginia State 9-7, but Zurbruegg had an outstanding day at the plate by collecting three hits. Allen Griffin belted a home run and a double to add offensive spark to the Wildcat attack.

On Saturday against Appalachian State, Davidson had its finest offensive game of the year in the opener of a doubleheader as App. State went down 9-3. Phil Gordon blasted a grand slam home run and Allen Griffin added a three-run homer to seal the Wildcat victory. Jon Young pitched an excellent game as he went the full 9 innings to raise his record to 4-2. In the second contest, Diggs Bishop pitched an outstanding game as he had a no-hitter until the seventh inning. Bobby Barnes knocked in the game’s winning run.

As evidenced by these early games, Davidson has been playing excellent fundamental baseball by getting timely hits and having excellent pitching. The early conference victories have added morale as well as confidence; something Davidson has lacked in the past. Zurbruegg commented, “We’ve begun past years with conference defeats. The fact that we’ve won four straight shows we can play in the Southern Conference.” If Davidson can retain its confidence as well as good hitting and pitching, the Cats could well remain at the top of the standings throughout the year.

As usual, B&BB say nothing at all about
By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

Hello again from Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. We have just returned from Indianapolis after completing an independent study on “Gravity and Dr. Dunkenstein.” Our conclusions will be published this summer in Physics Today, Sports Illustrated, and Afro Astronaut. You should find the results smashing.

We have designated this week as “Save the Student Body at Davidson Week” and as a public service, we would like to introduce you to several of the prospects for the Student Recruitment Weekend. These high school seniors are being heavily recruited by several other major colleges and we ask that you do your part in getting them to come to Davidson. Many activities have been planned including a ride...

KRUG
Easter Cards
Photo Developing
Whitman's Candy

Get your Whitman's Candy & Easter Cards while you can.
Sadler Square, Davidson
STORES INC.

The Men's Tennis Team is now 4-4.in Coach Eddie’s Rolls Royce, wining and dining at Big Daddy’s, and a spelling bee. In your enthusiasm to recruit these fine students, we ask that you do not give them any money under the table because this is in direct violation of the College Bowl Recruiting Rules. Here are the students:

Martha Washington Santore
This homely high school senior is proud to be an American. Instead of dating in high school, she wrote political speeches and asked interesting questions at Hodding Carter lectures. College interests: ROTC, Political Science Club, and attending Hodding Carter lectures. G.P.A.—3.7, SAT—1200.

Timothy Leopold Leonard
Description: 5 feet and 6 inches tall, 103 pounds, greasy hair, coke bottle glasses, calculator belt, booger in pocket. Timothy is very interested in Davidson but is somewhat concerned about the intramural requirement. He is a very good reader and can speak higher forms of English. Best friend is Robert Bowie. College interests: running for SGA President, losing in attempt at SGA President, self-selecting ATO. G.P.A.—4.02, SAT—1600.

Toby Merton
The stud at his high school in Cincy. Toby has more high school letters than he has passing grades on tests. Will be a definite plus to the sports program, but may have trouble gaining academic admission. There is a good chance that he will be accepted though, since there is a boy in the junior class with a similar background who is doing quite well. G.P.A.—1.8, SAT—360. E.R.A.—.076.

Mora Nelson
The niece of the famous economist. Mora plans to throw the shotput and intimidate little girls on her freshman hall. G.P.A.—3.8, SAT—1270.

Sigmund Philip Epstiline
Sigmund was a member of the all-state chorus. Other high school activities include: Barbershop Quartet, Madrigal Singers, and Melodeerbadores. Really enjoys singing. College interests: joining the chorus and having a SPE Little Sister. G.P.A.—3.4, SAT—1130.

Tim Haynes
Voted ‘Most Pleasurable’ by the Civinettes at his high school. Tim plans to continue the gigolo service started by his graduating brother. Enjoys tennis and will attend on an ROTC unless he decides to go to Chapel Hill. G.P.A.—3.9, SAT—1900.

Freddy Fredericksen
Freddy is beginning to show baldness at the ripe age of 17. College interests: becoming a member of AED Pre-med Honor Society, attending colloquiums, and joining Kappa Alpha. Freddy would like to go to IMAC but he must be realistic and that if he doesn’t get in he can become a pre-med advisor at a small liberal arts college.

Robert Mopteeth
Everybody likes Robert. Huh-huh-huh-hee-hee-ha-ha. May have to work with domestic engineer services as part of work study. G.P.A.—1.2, SAT—160.

Paul Griffith
Harry’s little brother. This youngster hates to be referred to as Harry’s little brother. His older brother, Harry, will graduate this year. Harry’s little brother is presently a freshman but he looks like a high school senior. Brother’s G.P.A.—2.6, SAT—1200.

Now for the sports. We went over to Sterling’s office, but we were not able to find any softball scores. However, we did find scores for the 1977 Basketball tournament. The Semi-finalists were B, K, L, B, M, SAE, Gozinyas, and HT and P. In the finals, the Pugilists played the Gozinyas but that's all for the sports.