| THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

No Pacifiers Please

The visiting athletic committee was brought here to pacify critics, not solve problems. The Trustees have placed such limitations on the committee’s membership and the scope of the issues that it will discuss that we find it hard to believe that the Trustees are truly interested in serious criticism of athletic policy, constructive though it might be.

While we respect the members of the committee for what they are, athletic administrators, we doubt that they are really qualified to comment on the broad questions of athletic policy in relation to the rest of the College that demand consideration. Ostensibly, the Trustees set up the committee to examine questions such as whether a school of Davidson’s size and financial resources can or should afford to support teams at the present levels of compensation as well as the athletic department’s inner machinations. Yet the committee members, two of whom are athletic directors, the other a director of physical education, have few qualifications to bring to such a broad examination. They have only had experience with athletics, but the question calls for knowledge of college administration, educational goals, and the ability to assess the College’s financial situation. Also, anyone who has been involved with athletics as long as the committee members have carries a natural bias in favor of athletics.

Davidson’s Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics recommended that the committee contain at least two persons from non-athletic areas such as academic and financial administration. The Council’s recommendations were ignored, apparently because the Trustees were afraid of what such a well-formed committee might decide.

The visiting committee is also well aware of the fact that for the time being the Trustees will not even consider any change in men’s basketball’s Division I status. As President Spencer pointed out in an interview last week, the committee can comment on whatever it chooses, but two members of the committee said at the open meeting with students Wednesday that the committee was not looking at the commitment to Division I in any great depth precisely because of the Trustees’ stance. Yet this commitment to attempt to regain national prominence in men’s basketball (necessitating Division I status) has a very profound effect on the entire athletic program and the College as a whole, so much so that any evaluation worthy of the name must examine our goals in basketball.

Besides sucking some $210,282 from the already tightly stretched athletic budget last fiscal year, our Division I status in basketball demands that our minor male sports compete on a Division I level also, because of NCAA and Southern Conference regulations. And indications are that given the size of our student body and the minor sports budgets, Division I is a very unrealistic level of competition for some of our minor sports teams. The Trustees’ actions indicate that they either don’t know about the problem, or simply don’t care.

It is long past time to evaluate our athletic aspirations within the context of the College as a whole, not simply within the athletic department. This may prove difficult, since one of the members of the visiting committee admitted that even he did not know what the College’s goals are, and he is by no means in the minority. But a genuine evaluation of athletics’ role at Davidson cannot be delayed any longer. The College’s financial situation demands it. Faculty and staff salaries, for example, have declined against inflation since 1966. The Trustees are committed to footing the bill for achieving national prominence in basketball, but not necessarily to maintaining the school’s quality of education. We must decide if basketball can continue to force minor sports to compete over their heads even while the basketball program compiles miserable records. And we must ask ourselves if big-time athletics have any place at a small, liberal arts college such as Davidson in the first place.

The Trustees should realize the importance of the broad questions of athletic goals and College priorities, instead of merely handing us a pacifier.

— Mark Barrett

“Is THIS THE PEACE THAT HAS RATS?"

Service Brings Understanding
Minor Sinclair

The Y Student Service Corps. For such a humble organization, it carries a mighty ostentatious name. Considering that I believe most do-gooders are motivated by a feeling of guilt or pity rather than a desire to help, and further considering that I believe most do-gooders cause more harm than benefit to the victim, it seems to me a curious circumstance, not to mention a second place finish. But in other activities, nothing is more apparent than the numbing realization of what you cannot do. After a while, it is not enough just to listen to someone's sad story and pat them on the back.Community organizing. This is a contradiction that I find myself attempting to change a system as one of the heads of the organization which causes injustice, rather than give band-aids which ease the situation only temporarily. In the name of social service, the Y has been granted a license to invade the homes of perfect strangers, to pry into their lives, and to stare wide-eyed at their “problem.” The STEP tutors go into the homes of the grade school children they tutor and discover the sociological why’s of the kid’s poor performance in school. Those who visit the prison can get to see real live criminals, animals in cages. Those who visit the lonely are a witness to the wasted by-products of society, the “throwaways.” After such an experience, the do-gooder is thrilled. The immediate reward of doing good, of “saving” someone from suffering, is gratifying. The do-gooder’s instincts are quenched and one can retire into the comfortable routines of academic life. And another’s harsh realities are forgotten.

If that is where social service ends then the do-gooder has missed an opportunity for understanding, as well as blown a chance to really have an impact, to make a difference. Instead of thrilling, the experience should be saddening, aggravating, and immensely frustrating. It should be frustrating to work at the Day Care Center and see pre-kindergarten kids who are already behind in their schooling and to realize that they might always be behind in their schooling. It should be frustrating to work on winterization projects, stapling polyethylene over the windows of someone's house when there is a gaping hole in their back wall.

Over the past twenty years, social service has been moving away from direct emergency lunch. It is not planning a protest rally. We still do our regular activities, however, I also detect interest to be involved in political awareness and social education. We are focusing our propaganda efforts at ourselves for as students we will emerge as the next generation of doctors, lawyers, teachers, and preachers—in a word, the system. If we fail now to perceive the problems and needs around us, in town and at the college, the system, which we eventually bequeath to our children, will contain the same injustices it now contains.

The Y does not have the resources now to change the world very much. We have neither the skill nor the money to repair the back wall of a house. And it does help to put plastic on some windows (even when the panes are missing). However, it is vitally important that we see the need, recognize that the situation now is not right, and realize that it does not have to be this way. Someday, soon I hope, we can do something about it. Change comes, at first, through attitudes. With this in mind, I would like to make a plug for Prison Awareness Week, which Y Student Service Corps has been taking place the last few days. It is being directed by Cathy Ansheles and sponsored by the Y. On Tuesday morning T.J. Reddy (one of America’s political prisoners and one of the Charlotte 3) talked and signed copies of his new book. Yesterday Joe Bethanti, an instructor at CPCC and at Huntersville Prison, delivered a talk on “Prison as a Revolving Door.” Tonight a panel discussion will feature the Superintendent of Huntersville Prison, an inmate, several students, and a professor, Kay Smith, as they reflect on their experiences with the prison system. (7:30 p.m. 900 Room). Tomorrow evening the Y and the Black Student Coalition are putting on a disco at the Stonewall Jackson Training Center in Concord. All are welcome. You will have the opportunity to see firsthand how an inmate lives in an institution of the Department of Corrections.

Being involved with the Y is, at times, fun and relaxing. At other times involvement is downright disturbing and dangerous. But at all times it is rewarding.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
John Siman, News Editor
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor
Van Beck, Sports Editor
Jeff Herrin, Backpage Editor
John McDowell, Advertising Manager
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Jeff Dempsey, Opinions Graphics Editor
Marshall Waddell, Production Associate