October 3, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Johnny Mayhew slops the hogs for Slater.

By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Correspondent

Have you ever wondered what happens to that leftover spaghetti or scrambled eggs when you haven’t the appetite to finish
what’s left on your plate? Dissatisfied with the answers my imagination produced, I went on a quest for the man
who handles huge amounts of scraps produced by the Davidson eating houses.

The quest led me to Eden Street, where sat a yellow, single-story house with a friendly German Shepherd which bounced
up to greet me. In answer to my knock, out came Johnny Mayhew. He was an elderly black man with
a friendly smile. His jean overalls bore the soil of a day or two’s work. He wore an old hat
that said “CAT diesel power.” The brown skin of his hands was weathered and supple, and his handshake made me
feel at home.

Johnny sat me down in an easy chair and reclined on the nearby sofa. He and the sofa fit together
perfectly. Johnny lit a cigarette and sat up. Johnny collects all the leftover food and slop from Richards, Bailey, SAE,
and Phi Delt houses each afternoon with his green ’51 Chevy pickup. For eight years now he has been taking
this refuse out to his pig farm, four miles northeast of Davidson.

“My father bought 25 acres, and then he sold four and a half acres to Shell's Chapel,” said Johnny. Johnny’s
father willed the farm to his grandchildren who now own the pigs. Still, Johnny runs the farm himself. “I grew
up on a farm and I’m the only one who can do the job,” he said with a laugh. Twenty-five
pigs, including twelve piglets, welcome the mixture of ground feed and Slater scraps. The pigs are taken each year to
a market near Statesville, where they are auctioned off.

These markets are places of quick exchange. Dealers buy farm animals, slaughter them, and sell them at wholesale prices to
supermarkets and individuals. They also supply the wholesale food dealers who, in turn, supply our own eating houses. Yes, that
déjà vu feeling you had when you scraped your plate last night was justified.

Besides being an experienced hog farmer, Johnny Mayhew works for the Mecklenburg County School System. He does maintenance and cleaning
work at the different schools to help out where he is needed. Johnny’s ready chuckle and soft smile made me
think he would be great with children. Judging from the years he has spent in the schools and from the
dynasty which he heads, I’m pretty sure I was right.

When asked how many children he had, Johnny had to sit back and think. “Annie, Mildred, Evelyn, John Lee, Jezebel,
Daisy, and Floyd,” he counted. Minnie, his wife, was there to help count up the grandchildren, which totaled 28. “Oh,
I got grandchildren.”

Artist’s conception of the new Commons.

(Continued from page 1)

Bingham said his major objective for Davidson athletics is “to improve the condition of the minor sports.” Comparing sports budgets
to living conditions, he quipped, “If basketball were living in Beverly Hills, football would be in Queens Road West...and women’s
and minor sports somewhere in the ghettos.”

“I’m open to any constructive ideas you have,” he told his audience of students and faculty members. Bingham criticized the
report of the visiting athletic committee (see The Davidsonian, September 18, 1980) as “very poor.” “It collected all the feelings
of people on campus—not objective facts.”

Facts are needed—for example, Bingham noted the importance of determining the money to be saved by dropping the...football program to
Division III. “If it becomes obvious that we cannot compete at the IAA level—if it becomes economically unfeasible—then I will
recommend that we get out.” Similarly, if the basketball team “has a number of unsuccessful seasons, the Trustees and alumni
would ask for a change,” Bingham said, adding, however, “I think the team will be successful.”

Next year’s athletic budget will be based on an objective analysis of need, according to Bingham. “In October we will
begin a process to determine how much money will be needed for all the sports.” This will also give more
specific sport-by-sport goals for fundraising. “For example, there is a need for a full-time baseball coach,” Bingham said. While 60%
of the funds of the Wildcat Club now go towards the football program, Bingham said that after the “budget setting
process a certain percentage will go to [other sports] according to their needs.”

Bingham considers scholarships for minor sports unnecessary. “We can recruit,” he explained, “on the basis of Davidson’s quality alone.” Nor
does he think women want athletic scholarships. If Title IX should require them, he added, “the Wildcat Club will cover
it.”

The secret to increased fundraising for athletics, Bingham said, will be obtaining new funds from specific sports constituencies—alumni interested in
baseball or soccer, for example. Student athletes could help in fundraising. Indeed, Bingham said he saw nothing wrong with individual
academic departments raising money for themselves. This would not lead to competition, he said. All money given to the College
is “well-spent.”

Great-grandchildren, and great-great-grandchildren,” he smiled with a wave of his hand. “Sixty-seven in all.” “Sixty-nine,” Minnie corrected from her chair
across the room. “Two more been born since two weeks.”

Johnny Mayhew doesn’t own this pig. How does a couple accomplish this in a lifetime? “We had our 52nd anniversary
last November,” said Johnny. He and his wife both chuckled with pleasant memories. “O Lord, don’t say nothing!” Minnie replied.
It had been quite an event; Will Terry had opened up the Center for Special Studies for a family reunion.
Johnny told me about the celebration: “Reverend Terry said, ‘The College is giving an appreciation, we want you to come
to the appreciation.’ Minnie put on a long evening gown, I dressed up with a nice suit. Mr. Terry picked
us up in front of our doorstep, took us up there, took me and Minnie to the door, stopped, went
in to make sure everything was OK, then opened both doors wide, and me and Minnie were standing there and
pictures were clicking and lights flashing (looked like lightning!) and it was a pride, a packed full house, white and
black, Yes sir.”

They proudly showed a chestful of crystal and glassware given them that day. Johnny sat back with one leg up
on the sofa, stroking his whiskers, gazing at the wall. “That was nice, we really enjoyed that,” said Minnie.

Minnie has worked at Will Terry’s house for 15 years. Lately he calls on her when he is having company
and needs help in preparing for it, although she does work regularly each Friday. She had great respect for Terry’s
ability to cook. “He can cook anything he wants.”

Johnny and Minnie Mayhew have lived in Davidson all of their lives. Their friendship has probably had some effect on
their longevity. Johnny is 72. He must know his farm like he knows the back of the hand that has
worked it for so many years. Johnny’s goodbyes were “You come on back soon so I can take you out
to see the...
