(Mike Kehs)

Beauty & The Beasts

Homecoming queen Lisa Harbottle makes a striking contrast to this homecoming present (below) to Dr. and Mrs. Spencer from the
class of 1980. Lisa was crowned on the football field, the frogs on the Spencers' front yard.

An all-natural snack
Regularly 33¢
This Week's Special Now 25¢
128 S Main St. Davidson 892-7521

Greeting Cards?

| Hallmark

| Film & Processing?

—Kodak & Polaroid
Contact Lenses?

Hard and Soft

SADLER SQUARE
DAVIDSON, N.C. 892-7211

October 24, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

Hockey wins 2, now 8-3

By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

Davidson’s field hockey team continued its winning streak beating Catawba 2-1 in overtime last Friday and Winthrop 3-0 on Monday.

Against Catawba, Davidson had possession after the bully as Cathy Inabnet carried the ball downfield. A series of defensive fouls
gave the Cats four corners but no goal.

The ball was then cleared by Catawba. Their wing broke to the right leaving our defense behind. Halfback Amy Crittenberger
doubled back for a circular tackle and redirected the play, preventing a goal.

Catawba caught the defense off balance later in the game as a series of shots were taken on Cathy Morrel
and she was drawn out of the cage. Mebane Atwood covered back, and with a hand stop, prevented a goal.

Play continued with a constant battle at mid-field. The ball changed sides several times. The Cats were guilty of “sloppy
passes” and “standing rather than moving to meet the ball” according to Coach Dee-Dee Mayes.

Barb Ashley and Lisa Ballantyne both took hard shots at the goal and kept the play on our offensive but
to no avail.

27:30 into the half, Catawba stole possession and carried the ball for a quick shot to the left side of
the cage and a goal.

After the bully, Catawba again had possession. A series of defensive fouls gave them 2 corners. Barb Ashley, right halfback,
prevented shots on goal as she was the first to be on the ball. The half ended with a 1-0
score and an unsuccessful shot by Catawba.

Davidson went back out as Lisa Ballantyne won the bully and back-passed to Crittenberger. The play proceeded until the Cats
had a corner. The resulting shot was wide.

The play continued to get muddled in midfield as the players seemed “sluggish” and frustrating according to Coach Mayes as
the team failed to “move to meet the ball.” The level of play was a step down from previous games
but the Cats pulled it together in the final 10 minutes.

Katie Dagenhart stopped a defensive break and passed to Lisa Ballantyne at midfield. Inabnet received the pass and carried the
ball within two feet of the cage to draw the goalie out. She then placed the ball in the right-hand
corner.

Davidson kept the ball on the offensive as Crittenberger scooped into the circle but the shot never came off. Barb
Ashley shot but again the goalie was ready.

The play changed ends as Morrel stayed Catawba’s attacks with two hard saves. The second half ended with a 1-1
tie.

Davidson clinched the win as Inabnet drove off the corner to Carol Heppner. She stopped and shot but was blocked
by a defenseman. Ballantyne, in backup position, caught the ball off the rebound on her stick and placed the final
goal.

The Cats traveled to Converse on Monday and beat them 3-0. Heppner, Ballantyne, and Ashley scored. The team’s record is
now 8-3.

Freshman & former Marine McManus leads CC

By CRAIG WHITE
Sports Editor

Last year, Randy McManus “took a dare” and applied to Davidson. This year, the dare has paid off—McManus has been
Davidson’s fastest cross-country runner for most of this season. “Up until a couple of weeks before classes, I couldn’t believe
that I was coming here,” Randy explains.

Randy can be classified as a truly unique Davidson student. Never actually finishing high school, Randy is twenty-four years old,
married, and has had three years of Marine Corps experience. But Randy really likes it here—“this is my kind of
place.”

“I didn’t know I had any talent until three years ago in the army when I came in second in
a road race. After that, I’ve been running for fun ever since. I found something I could be good at.”

Everyone hears about the loneliness of the long-distance runner, and according to Randy that conception is true to some extent:
“It actually does get pretty lonely running eight miles or more. You can tear yourself up.” The heavy endurance of
cross-country can be seen in the fact that this year’s team has dwindled to 12 from 45 pre-season starters.

“Running for me takes at least two hours a day. You really can’t spend any more time than that or
you'll break yourself.” How does Randy cope with pain? “Anytime you anticipate pain, you're scared. For the races, I tell
myself it won’t hurt so bad and it usually doesn’t. But of course, you get butterflies.”

In the last couple of weeks, Randy has lost his number one spot to John Davis and has not run
as well as he would like. “The European cross-country race was a disaster for me—I came out too fast. After
that, I've been too conservative.”

But against Wilmington, Campbell, and Citadel, Randy hopes to do better. “I’ve got my confidence and health back. I think
we'll win them all.”

Look for Randy again this winter in indoor track and this spring on the track team. For him, shorter distances
are better because “you don’t think about the pain so much.”
