Women’s Bball 7

has its ups

and downs

By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Davidson lady basketballers went 1-1 in conference play this week, beating St. Andrews of Laurinburg 62-57 last Thursday but dropping
a 69-80 contest to UNC-G Tuesday.

In between those games they took a trip to Augusta and went against Division II team, Augusta College, and lost,
85-72.

The week started off well with the win against St. Andrews. It was the Wildcats' first conference victory and quite
welcome. Davidson led the stats in most areas. They outrebounded St. Andrews, 37-35; Davidson shot 39% from the field to
St. Andrews’ 31%; but St. Andrews’ 72% from the line was better than Davidson’s 67%.

Scoring was led by Kirby Owen who had 27 points. It was her career high; she even made the technical
foul shot when the St. Andrew's coach called one time-out too many. Sarah Womack added 18 points, and Mike Frankhouser
had 10 points.

The game against Augusta was played in the month-old Augusta/Richmond County Civic Center. Augusta had one excellent player who intimidated
the Wildcats all night.

At the half the Wildcats were down, 41-28, and five minutes were gone in the second half before they scored
another point. At that time they were down by about 30, but after six minutes of hustling defense, they had
cut the deficit to 14.

Augusta came out with the victory. Sarah Womack led the scoring with 17 points, Mike Frankhouser had 18, and Jeanne
Womack contributed 10. One bright spot for Davidson in the game was the play of Laura Terry. She was 4
for 6 from the field and 2 for 2 from the line, for a total of 10 points. In addition,
she grabbed 8 rebounds and only had one foul.

Sarah Womack led the Davidson scoring with 16 points.

Mardi Gras comes to Davidson this weekend but the Wildcats will hit the road for two games, Friday night against
Meredith College and Saturday night against N.C. Wesleyan. By Sunday, the Wildcats hope to be celebrating too.

Competitive women's soccer appears at Davidson for the first time.

February 1, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

(Carolyn Scott)

Wildcats welcome 58-48 victory over Appalachian

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

A last-second stuff by Brian Rowan, his only bucket of the game, concluded a very welcome night for the Davidson
Wildcats Wednesday in the Coliseum. The Cats topped Appalachian State 58-48 to give them a 4-8 mark in the Southern
Conference and a 7-12 overall. The game could not have come at a better time following a tough weekend where
they lost to Appalachian State and The Citadel 57-56 each and to Wake Forest, 63-50. They did defeat Marshall, 75-63.

Mark Tommerdahl led the team during last weekend's exciting meets, winning all three of his events on Friday and a
first place and two seconds on Saturday. Mike Schremmer also performed well in the 200-yard free and other events.

Next weekend promises more excitement as the swim team takes on William and Mary in Williamsburg. Then, on February 8
and 9, they meet Georgia Tech. By these meets, the swim team should be prepared for the Southern Conference meet
to be held at VMI February 21, 22, and 23. There they will have to swim with the fierceness of
true woodsmen to overcome The Citadel and Appalachian State for second place. There is also a possibility of beating Marshall
and taking the conference title.

The team has also improved with the addition of Frank Bright, a freshman with a top finish in the Southern
Conference meet, and Charu Sharma. Both have brought in many points that otherwise would have been lost. With improved sprinting
and diving and the hard work of the entire team under the direction of coach Pat Miller, the swimmers expect
to do well as the season closes.

The key to the ASU win was control in the second period. After being down by three points at the
break, the Cats took over and dictated the tempo. Todd Haynes broke his shooting slump and pumped in 20 Wildcat
points to lead the scoring. Jamie Hall broke into double figures with 11.

It wasn’t a good game from a technical standpoint. There was some sloppy play in the first half but the
Cats managed to pull through.

“We've thought we've had ‘it’ a few times this year,” Rowan remarked, “but the little things are beating us in
a lot of our games.” While little things may be beating the Cats, they don’t always get beat by little
margins.

More tough competition is scheduled for the coming week. The Cats travel to South Bend, Indiana, to face Notre Dame.
They need to win to avoid falling into the conference basement. Only eight of the nine teams will make the
playoffs. The Cats can ill afford to give any league games away.

Monday night was simply bad for the Cats against Western Carolina. Davidson lost a one-point halftime advantage with an atrocious
second half. The Cats managed to shoot only 33 percent from the field in the second half, and their overall
shooting percentage for the game was less than 40 while the Catamounts shot 58 percent in running up the 75-63
score.

Coach Biedenbach explained the loss by saying, “In the first half, we played the kind of game we wanted to
play, but we didn’t play well. In the second half, we just couldn’t get the points on the board.” Rich
DiBenedetto went three for four from the field while Todd Haynes went one for 12 and John Carroll connected only
once in seven attempts.
