(CPS)—The political upheaval surrounding Iranian and other Middle Eastern students on American campuses probably won’t dissuade colleges from signing up
more foreign students in the years to come, according to various international student advisers. Though schools may suffer some “public
relations problems” by enrolling large numbers of foreign students, William Bray of the National Association of Foreign Student Affairs (NAFSA)
says they aren’t great enough to prevent those enrollments’ growth.

“There are two problems the university faces with foreign students on campus,” Bray says. “The first is mechanical. Foreign students
need special programs and facilities to help them. The second is public relations. Americans don’t easily accept people who are
different.” Yet economic need will help blunt college concern about public image. Some colleges, concerned about the decline in the
number of native-born potential students, have already become dependent on the foreigners. Foreigners currently make up between four and seven
percent of the total American college student populace. There are projections the number could hit ten percent by 1990. Given
the stakes, few schools seem willing to adopt policies that could substantially change those projections.

Mankato State University in Minnesota, for example, plans to continue enrolling foreign students despite a potentially disastrous public relations flap
last November. That’s when, just after the seizure of the American embassy in Tehran, five foreign students—four Iranian and one
Sudanese—at Mankato were arrested after the police got a tip the students were about to kidnap Minnesota Governor Albert Quie.
A rifle was found in the car of one of the students. The charges proved to be groundless (the rifle
was apparently for a hunting trip), but the uproar potentially threatened Mankato’s budget request in the state legislature. Mankato, however,
maintains plans to enroll more foreign students.

Vernon Jordan, Urban League head, to speak at Convocation Friday
By SUSAN WOODIE
Assistant Features Editor

In a 1978 “Reader’s Digest” article on Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the story is told of his first time at
a National Urban League meeting: “The day Jordan walked into his first board meeting, the entire board stood up and
applauded. ‘He hadn’t opened his mouth yet,’ said one awed witness. It is that commanding presence—the unmistakable quality of leadership—with
which more and more Americans are becoming familiar.”

Jordan will be the guest speaker at the annual Spring Awards Convocation to be held Friday, April 25 at 11:00
a.m. in Love Auditorium. Some twenty awards will be presented at the convocation to students who have demonstrated excellence in
academics, athletics, and community service. Jordan will be awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws in recognition of his
many achievements.

Jordan is acting executive director of the National Urban League, a position he has held since 1972. Under his directorship,
the League has become possibly the best financed and most professionally staffed of the civil rights organizations. The League has
116 local affiliates, collectively employing a staff of over 3000 and disbursing more than $100 million a year. Services of
the National Urban League include job-training and placement; educational, social-welfare, and housing programs for the black community; and “advocacy to
government, business, and union leaders of the cause of minority economic advancement.”

A native of Atlanta, Jordan is a graduate of DePauw University and Howard University Law School. He holds honorary degrees
from more than 30 colleges and universities.including Duke, Yale, Boston College, and Tuskegee Institute. Among his numerous past titles and
notable achievements are executive director of the United Negro College Fund, Georgia field director for the NAACP, member of the
Board of Directors of the American Museum of Natural History, and a member of the Presidential Clemency Board. "Reader’s Digest"
describes Jordan as a “man of vibrant personality and commanding presence—one of the nation’s pre-eminent advocates for his people.” He
certainly looks the part of people’s advocate. A six-foot-four-inch, broad-chested figure, Jordan displays a ready smile and a glint of
merriment in his large, quick-darting eyes. His lectures are well-received, delivered with an air of easy camaraderie, self-confidence, and wit.
He has been said to inhabit two worlds: In one, he is the forceful black civil-rights leader, crusading for an
“open, integrated, pluralistic society,” and fond of saying, “The 1960s involved the legal battle to eat in the same restaurant
with whites. The task now is to earn the money to pay for that meal.” In the other world, he
is Vernon Jordan, the business executive, a member of the board of six major corporations, among them American Express, Banker’s
Trust, and Xerox.

By CAROLYN WATT
Staff Correspondent

Even at Davidson, not all education comes from a classroom. Evidence of this is the Biology department’s extensive use of
college-owned properties accessible to “budding” botanists, entomologists, ecologists, and zoologists. Few students realize exactly how much plant and soil testing
actually goes on around town. Such places as Morgan’s Bluff, Glen Alpine Springs, and McConnell’s Pond provide ideal environments for
a variety of biological studies.

A beautiful river bluff and shale cliff in Stanley County, N.C. is owned jointly by Davidson and UNCC. Morgan’s Bluff
was acquired by the two schools primarily for preservation of its unusual flora. Destined to become a housing development had
it not been purchased, the bluff was recently added to the Register of Natural Heritage Areas, instrumental in “preservation of
North Carolina’s natural diversity.”

Glen Alpine Springs is located in Burke County, N.C., two hours west of Davidson. It consists of approximately 250 acres
of wooded mountains on the site of an old resort hotel. The resort burned, and little remains of the place
except a few plants and some cement foundations. The College sold the gravel rights to the bottom lands but the
trees and shrubs are growing back to reclaim the land. The College is now seeking to retain this property as
a natural educational preserve.

Perhaps of more interest to amateur ecologists and zoologists is McConnell’s Pond, located east of Davidson on Concord Road. The
land, which was named after a Davidson physician, was given to the College with the intention that the property include
a development for faculty. Presently, ecology and zoology students alike use it for course projects. It is ideally located because
it can be reached by bicycle or on foot.

Until recently, students worked on projects in Egg Rock Woods, the woods most often used by the Biology department. Unfortunately,
the woods have been clear cut for timber, destroying the habitat of the pileated woodpecker, a popular specimen for observation.
This action has initiated many questions concerning the preservation of land, which Biology Professor Dr. Tom Daggy calls “our natural
heritage.” Daggy feels “it is the duty of higher education to preserve our heritage in literature and nature.”
