September 26, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

New faculty exhibit a variety of interests
(Photos by David McCurry)

Robin Barnes: History
By NEIL SONDOV
Staff Correspondent

Robin Barnes is a new addition to the history department. He is filling the position vacated when Brown Patterson left
to take a position at the University of the South. Barnes is originally from northern New Jersey. He graduated from
Colby College in Maine in 1973 and received his Master's degree from the University of Virginia. After studying in Europe,
Barnes returned to U.Va. as a teaching assistant and instructor. He received his Ph.D. in history from U.Va. this past
August. He specializes in Renaissance and Reformation history.

Barnes said he came to Davidson because, “I wanted very much to teach. Having gone to a school similar to
Davidson, I thought the atmosphere here would be an enjoyable one in which to teach.” “My first impressions of Davidson
have been very favorable,” Barnes continued. “I like the close relationship among members of the faculty and students.” Barnes is
interested in a variety of outdoor activities, especially swimming and music. He hopes to be able to become involved with
the Davidson Sailing Club as well as participate on faculty sports teams.

Richard Brubaker: Religion
By DAVE EARNHARDT
Staff Correspondent

Richard Brubaker found out about Davidson from our religion department and, on coming down, liked what he saw. He commented
on the beautiful campus and says that he is happy with his department, delighted with his students, and is “very
pleased with Davidson as a whole.” Brubaker got his B.A. in Philosophy from the College of Wooster. He attended Union
Theological Seminary, later receiving his M.A. from the University of Chicago. He studied at Madurai University in India, and later
earned a Ph.D. in the History of Religions from the University of Chicago. He comes to Davidson from Vanderbilt, but
has also taught in Ewing Christian College, India, Lakehead University, Ontario, and Rosary College in Illinois. His interests include backpacking,
sailing, canoeing, carpentry, and wood carving.

Philip Pennance: Mathematics
By JANE HARPER
Staff Correspondent

New to the math department is Philip Pennance, who comes to Davidson after completing graduate work at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Pennance, a citizen of England, graduated there from Hull University. He earned his M.A. from
Leeds University before beginning work in a radar factory. Before coming to America, Pennance taught for two years at the
University of Liberia in Monrovia and for three years at Cuttington University, also in Liberia. Pennance said that he likes
the close contact with the student body that the smallness of Davidson allows. When asked to compare the university system
of America to that of England, he said that, although quite different, both systems have their good points. Pennance enjoys
the classical guitar and playing chess while not working. He also is studying Spanish.

Robert Kennedy: Psychology
By JAY NORMAN
Staff Correspondent

As a high school senior in New Jersey, Robert Kennedy was forced to choose between Davidson and Holy Cross, eventually
selecting the latter. Nevertheless, Davidson has finally succeeded in bringing Kennedy to the campus to teach psychology. At Holy Cross,
Kennedy received his English degree. Four years later he entered Penn State, where he earned a Ph.D. in psychology. He
then taught at the University of Florida, where he was assistant professor of criminal psychology. Kennedy has a permanent appointment
to teach psychology here at Davidson. He hopes to remain here for several years both teaching and doing research on
his own in the fields of criminal psychology and psychopathology. One of the reasons Kennedy came to Davidson was in
hopes that he would...be able to do further research, especially in the fields of criminal psychology and psychopathology. Kennedy believes
that with access to the Broughton Hospital and nearby Charlotte, he will be able to utilize "real world situations" for
his research (he claims that he is not referring to Davidson students for psychopathology research). Beginning this June, he also
hopes to head the Davidson summer program at Broughton.

The move to Davidson was indeed a new experience for Kennedy. "After having lived in New York and having attended
large universities, Davidson will be a welcomed change." Kennedy hopes not only to pursue academic interests but to also find
time for some of the other activities he enjoys: swimming, tennis, and literature.

Christopher Frost: Classics
By DAVE EARNHARDT
Staff Correspondent

Christopher Frost first found out about Davidson during his college days at Wake Forest. He came in contact with the
area five summers ago when he passed through on a bicycle tour from Washington, D.C. to Georgia. Frost graduated from
Wake Forest, later receiving his Master’s from Trinity College. He studied classics at the University of Dublin and at Princeton,
finishing his Ph.D. at the University of Cincinnati. His pastimes include canoeing, reading Greek, play production, cooking, watching the antics
of his kitten, and biking. Frost is responsible for the fledgling bicycle tour club here on campus.

Frost said that one of the impressions he got here was that he was on an island, so to speak,
with a high degree of culture and learning, surrounded by a sea of local culture and people. He commented that
Davidson has the serenity of, say, Oxford or Cambridge, and is ideal for someone whose major interest is teaching, rather
than researching.

Peter Hess: Economics
By DAN VOORHIS
Staff Correspondent

Peter Hess joins the economics department for the next two years as a temporary replacement for Randy Kincaid. (Kincaid is
running for the 9th District seat in the U.S. House of Representatives.) Hess will be teaching three sections of Introduction
to Political Economy and three macroeconomics.

Originally from Florida, Hess moved to Maine and received his B.A. in economics at Bowdoin College. Before returning to the
South, Hess taught high school math for three years. He skipped his M.A. and is currently working toward a Ph.D.
at UNC at Chapel Hill. Hess said he plans to reenter the job market when he acquires his Ph.D. He
plans to stay in academia and prefers a school similar to Davidson. Hess said he likes Davidson's atmosphere and close
proximity to Chapel Hill. He is generally impressed with the student body, which he considers intelligent and hard-working. Hess said
he would like to participate in intramural soccer and baseball, but his Ph.D. work and teaching duties are currently occupying
most of his time. Hess played both sports at Bowdoin.

Mary Thornberry: Political Science
By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Correspondent

Mary Thornberry is yet another professor who came home to the South when she began work at Davidson. Thornberry is
originally from Chattanooga, Tennessee, and earned her undergraduate degree at Duke University. She taught for two years at the University
of Colorado at Colorado Springs and for one year at the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga before obtaining her Ph.D.
at the University of Michigan. She has held a position at the University of Arizona for the past five years.

The idea of a small co-ed liberal arts school helped in Thornberry’s decision to return to the South. As a
Presbyterian, she also likes the college's close ties with the church. Thus far, Thornberry has found Davidson a friendly place
and likes the way professors help "to make things happen" for students. (See Thornberry, page 11)
