6—The Davidsonian—October 24, 1980

Gavignaud finds U.S. land of blue skies, new styles

By ED TRUMBULL
Staff Correspondent

Mademoiselle Genivieve Gavignaud had never been in the United States before she came to Davidson this term as part of
the Davidson/University Paul Valery in Montpellier exchange. Nor did she speak English. But that’s getting better.

“Students have offered to give me English courses,” she said.

She has never taught in an American-type university, even though she’s been teaching for ten years. That was the major
reason she chose to come over, to experience teaching in the American university system.

“They’re very different,” she said, “I’m getting used to this one now.”

Since she has been here only a month and a half, Gavignaud didn’t want to make any value judgments about
the two different systems. For that, she thinks she’ll need more perspective. She has been struck by one difference: the
strong campus life here.

“In France, there isn’t any campus life.”

Teaching here is different. In Montpellier, Gavignaud teaches History, especially agrarian history of the Southwest of France. Here she’s teaching
Conversation and Composition and a Senior seminar on the historical context of literature. I asked her if there were problems
with teaching these courses, and she said no. Her degree qualifies her to teach any of the liberal arts. She
is trying to give her students an idea of the methods of writing French analytical papers.

“This method is the same, whether one is treating philosophy, history, or literature.”

The classroom styles in the two systems are also different. Here students and professors are encouraged to deal with each
other personally, in small classes.

“The French classes are often lectures, with little student participation.”

She thinks that there ought to be a balance between the two types of classes. Though small classes are beneficial,
larger ones are equally valid in a complete education.

She does not want to be considered just a teacher. Research is also important for her. She has worked on
a history of Languedoc, which will appear in the spring. Currently, she is working on articles treating relationships between rural
and urban society in her native Roussillon.

I asked her what she would do when she returns to Montpellier in February. She will have to make up
for the classes she missed by coming here.

“That was the only way I was allowed to come,” she said.

And finally, I asked what she missed most from her native Southern France.

“The Mediterranean. But you have the same blue sky.”

(David McCurry)

‘Davidson, don't you just love comedy?’

By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Correspondent

If you told your mother you wanted to be a comedian, she would probably either burst out laughing or say
“that’s not funny.” A stand-up comedian faces both of these reactions in an audience. And comedian Jim Hanna of Charlotte,
who kept the good times rolling in the 900 Room Homecoming Weekend, says he likes the challenge an audience presents.

The challenge of comedy lies in the nature of the art and in people’s reactions to it. Comedy is the
art of dialogue. Unlike music, people cannot listen “with one ear” and be entertained by it. Because a comedian requires
an audience’s undivided attention...Attention: The audience tends to have high expectations of the performer. Thoughts like "OK pal, make me
laugh" or "This guy better be good" surface in audiences when a comedian steps up to perform. Jim Hanna gave
a lively performance on the 900 Room stage Saturday night. He wore a beige-yellow suit. His long brown hair and
slightly hunched shoulders gave him an almost juvenile look as he gazed out at the audience. Hanna is not a
man given to silence, so he quickly went to work on capturing his audience. By speaking about Davidson, then asking
questions and joking along with the answers, Hanna managed to get the audience’s attention. He then turned to his prepared
routine to get the laughs rolling and develop rapport. At first, audience response to his questions was minimal, but Hanna
just chuckled and said "Davidson, Davidson, gosh darn it, don’t you just love comedy?" As he told about a new
cereal called Rice Quaaludes (Snap, Crackle, Puhhh...) and about the fortune he was going to make by marketing Sheer Energy
briefs for men (with the all-day massage), things loosened up.

Jim Hanna has lived in Charlotte many years and comes from a family of comedians; his father and sister are
both professionals. Hanna recently spent a year in Los Angeles, where he frequented night spots in order to study other
comedians. There he learned how important the makeup of an audience is to a comedian’s success. "One show a performer
would come off really well, and then the next he would use the same jokes, same timing—everything—and he would bomb!"
Hanna’s work in North Carolina centers around the Comedi Inn at the Camelot Restaurant on Providence Road. The inn is
unique in Charlotte—its entertainment is limited to comedy. Part of Hanna’s work at the Comedi Inn is "absorbed in educating
and furthering new comedians." By holding workshops and having "open mike" (See Hanna, page 8)

Events On Campus

Thursday, October 23
10:00 Disco

Friday, October 24
9:00 Room
3:00 Chemistry Colloquium: "Digital Gates and Microcomputers" Dr. Robert P. DeSieno, Director of Computer Service Center (no previous computer experience
required)
7:30 Madhatter’s Square Dance sponsored by DCF. Wear a hat to dance—Will is calling
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film: "Going in Style"
9:30 & 11:00 Nee Ningy Band! 50 cents at the door

Saturday, October 25
8:00 a.m.-1 p.m. Graduate Management Admission Test
5:30-7:30 Italy Night
9:30 & 11:00 Nee Ningy Band! 50 cents at the door
12:00 midnight Pop Film: "The Conqueror Worm" with Vincent Price, $1

Wednesday, October 29
12:30 Open Luncheon with Harvey Gantt from Charlotte speaking on "Blacks in Politics" 900 Room
8:00 Fine Film: Psycho

Thursday, October 30
7:30 Student Opening Night: "Look Homeward Angel" Love Hodson
