October 10, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Being seen together means more than it should

By JOHN P. BROCKWAY
Faculty Guest Columnist

I would like to suggest that at Davidson College there appears to be a situation that has been described by
two social psychologists, Richard Nisbett and Lee Ross, in their recent book entitled Human Inferences: Strategies and Shortcomings of Social
Judgment. That situation relates to dating, or the dating scene, and may be described loosely as follows:

When two persons are seen together in one another’s company or presence in more than one place on more than
one occasion, they are assumed by ‘most’ to be an item, a couple, and by extension, unavailable to others who
might like to date either of them. It is the intention of this article to suggest that such thinking may
be faulty, if not completely wrong, and the incorrectness of these ‘‘intuitions’’ may have at its base certain psychological underpinnings
shared by us all.

Jerome Bruner (1957) has suggested that ‘‘the most characteristic thing about mental life, over and beyond the fact that one
apprehends the events of the world around one, is that one constantly goes beyond the information given.” That is, the
individual is not a dutiful register of information, but an active interpreter, one who resolves ambiguities, makes educated guesses about
the events that cannot be observed directly, and forms inferences about associations and causal relations (Nisbett and Ross, 1980, p.
17). Moreover, these authors suggest that persons use various strategies which permit and encourage one to venture beyond the information
given, beyond the immediate implications of the circumstances, and in the normal course of events, this going-beyond-the-data provides the basis
for ‘‘quick, coherent, but occasionally erroneous interpretations of new experience.”

Two strategies which they discuss are especially appropriate here, and may be directly or indirectly responsible for the ‘immediate pairing-off
(IPO) syndrome’ which I suggest exists at Davidson. These two strategies are labeled the availability heuristic and the representativeness heuristic
and were first written about by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky (1972, 1973, 1980). These heuristics are simple judgmental strategies
which produce inferences, and in this case are probably responsible for our IPO syndrome. Both these strategies seem to be
used in an automatic and nonreflective fashion, and seem free of any conscious consideration of appropriateness.

The availability heuristic deals with an aspect of memory which is well known: that a frequently occurring event is more
available for recall than an infrequent item. The higher the frequency of occurrence, the easier an event is able to
be recalled or remembered, and for Nisbett and Ross, the more likely the frequently occurring item is to produce inferential
errors. An example of this might run this way: Two persons at Davidson walk in each other’s company from the
Union to roughly the vicinity of Patterson Court. They are seen by, let us say, ten persons, who know them,
and more importantly, know each other. There is one occurrence of walking across campus.

Dating or just feeding the dog?

Delivery Service — Peregrine House
Thursday night Happy Hour
9 pm until... get your ice cold beer8:30 until 7 Days a Week Oe Pitchers $1.75 4:30 - 6:30 892-8686

Campus, but there are ten persons who experience this same event. In conversation among each other, as a matter of
course, the event will be mentioned, and the frequency (in memory, of course) of the event has now risen by
as many times as the event is mentioned by and among this group. This "pairing" of two individuals now is
more available in memory. When it becomes more available, it is more likely to allow inferences, or going beyond the
information given. Thus, a likely inference which might be drawn by one of the perceivers of this single event, which
has been raised in availability among the ten, could go along these lines, "So, Mary and John are spending a
lot of time together," or "Everyone is seeing Mary and John together lately." Other inferences which might be drawn are,
"They must like each other; they are spending so much time together." Or, "Since John is spending so much time
with Mary, I guess he must have had a fight with Ann."

Now the representativeness heuristic involves the application of the "goodness of fit" criterion to problems of categorization. In making a
judgment, according to Kahneman and Tversky, people assess the degree to which the salient features of the object are representative
of, or similar to, the features presumed to be characteristic of the category (Nisbett and Ross, 1980, p. 24). That
is, for our problem of fitting people into the category of "couple" or "dating pair" or "steady" or "her man"
or "his woman," people are making this judgment upon the most salient features, presumably. In using the representativeness heuristic, what
the person is likely to overlook is the base rate of information. The base rate of information cannot be extracted
from any single occurrence, but must be compiled through sampling procedures—really the basis for statistics. When a person does not
have ANY idea of the base rate, salient features of the event come to play, and often mislead the perceiver
in classification and categorization.

In our case, we would have to have a base rate for the number of "couples" at Davidson who were
together and who did not want to date any other person. That is, we would have to discover in some
manner exactly how many of the persons who were "couples" did and did not want to date others. Since we
do not have this data base, Tversky and Kahneman suggest that we infer the data base from inappropriate samples (that
which we have seen and heard—remember the availability heuristic?). This inferencing procedure, quite a part of our normal repertoire of
mental activities, is in a large part, "don't want to date any other persons." Or, "Most whom I would like
to don't want to date me." Notice, neither of these two inferences is based on data, but more probably on
a personal inference, or judgment which has to be labeled the representativeness heuristic. Neither of these two heuristics is rare,
presumably, but are common in our thinking patterns, usually serving for interpretations of new experience. They may be responsible for
other well-recognized phenomena as well.
