November 7, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Field hockey beats Pfeiffer, captures state tournament

By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

Davidson's field hockey team defeated Pfeiffer 2-1 last Friday to take the North Carolina State Championship and upped their record
to 14-4-1 in the same weekend, the best of any Davidson team this fall. The Cats had lost to Pfeiffer
twice in the regular season but, as Coach Dee Mayes said, the team was "psyched and mentally ready to play
all out." Senior Cathy Inabnet drove home both of Davidson's goals on break-aways. The win puts the Cats in the
tournament, which could easily lead to a berth in the national field hockey tournament.

The Cats also finished second in the Deep South Invitational tournament, but their final 1-2 loss to Clemson will not
affect their entrance to the regional tournament. The road to the state championship was not easy. Davidson beat High Point
1-0 in overtime for its semifinal. Sophomore water, making play on goal difficult. Mayes said the game proved not only
to Pfeiffer but to themselves that the season had been one of continual improvements. "The players rose to the occasion,"
Mayes said. Neither team dominated play at first as the ball changed hands constantly. The test came when Pfeiffer tied
the score at 1-1.

The Cats lost to Clemson 1-2 Sunday, but since Clemson has nine scholarship players, Mayes said, "Davidson played with them
the entire game and I was elated!" Both offense and defense played well. The loss came as a result of
a breakaway and a shot on goal, so the Cats were not disappointed with their runner-up finish. The Cats are
seeded first in regional competition and will play High Point at High Point Friday in the regional semifinals. The Cats
have beaten High Point in the past and a repeat victory would put them in the regional finals.

Beating High Point would secure the Cats a place in the national tournament, to be held at the University of
Southern Illinois, November 19-28 regardless of whether they win in the regional finals. Mayes said in general she is "extremely
proud of the way we have improved and handled ourselves under pressure. The team has contributed as a whole throughout
the season and we are ready for Regionals."

Soccer team makes final bid for winning season

By STEVE SOUL
Staff Writer

The soccer team, now 8-8, has one consolation in its play of late—it’s playing consistently. Providing, of course, that one
defines consistency as dropping four of every five games a team plays. The team dropped its last two games to
USC-Spartanburg and Wofford. The USC-Spartanburg booters put a goal on the board very early as a cross pass slipped right
through Wildcat Goalie Mike Iordanou’s hands to allow...

Sinclair paces Cats to victory against Guilford, 33-20

By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

Behind a workhorse effort on the part of fullback Ray Sinclair, Davidson bulled its way to a 33-20 football victory
over Guilford Saturday, raising its season record to 5-3. Sinclair rushed for 187 yards on 27 carries and scored three
touchdowns to pace the Wildcats over the Quakers, who doomed their own cause with fumbles and penalties. Neither team put
together a particularly artistic effort as the officials stepped off 180 total penalty...yards. The Quakers lost two fumbles and an
interception, while 'Cat quarterback Brian Whitmire gave up two interceptions. The "bottom line" Saturday was the strength of the 'Cat
rushing attack and the Quakers' lack of it. Davidson simply controlled the line of scrimmage. The 'Cats struck first in
the opening quarter when Whitmire found half-back Mickey Dillon for an 11-yard score. The visiting Quakers countered shortly thereafter on
a 26-yard dash by quarterback Keith Millner. The quarter closed on that note, but Davidson gained the lead for good
on the strength of ten second-quarter points. After two Guilford pass interference calls which accounted for 32 yards in the
'Cats drive, Ray Sinclair found paydirt from four yards out. Wayne Paymer booted the PAT and minutes later split the
uprights from the Guilford 35-yard line to account for Davidson’s 17-7 halftime lead.

The teams traded scores in the third quarter; Sinclair picked up his second score on a five-yard burst and Guilford’s
Hoots picked off a Whitmire pass deep in Quaker territory and legged it 91 yards for six points. The final
quarter also saw little change in the point spread and seemed almost like a boring formality. Sinclair bulled in to
close out Davidson's scoring while Guilford’s Millner ran one yard to cut the final margin to 18, 38-20. Davidson rolled
up 340 yards total offense compared to 200 for the visitors. Sinclair was the only 'Cat standout with 187 yards
and three TDs. Coach Ed Farrell summarized the Davidson effort aptly: "I didn’t think it was very artistic and we
didn’t play very well. We just aren’t putting things together." The Wildcats cannot afford another such effort as next week
brings Southern Conference champion Furman.

In the second half, Coach Charlie Slagle replaced Iordanou with backup goalie Pat Woodward because "Iordanou wasn’t into the game."
After 10:36 of second-half play, Nicholson scored from eighteen yards out to give the visitors all the goals they needed
to win. It wasn’t that the Rifles overpowered the Wildcats, though. Davidson played very well, equaling any previous performance but
missed open nets early in the game. Then came Wofford, a game that was played under somewhat trying circumstances by
the 'Cats. The refs were an hour and fifteen minutes late. Davidson elected not to walk off and lose the
game, but rather to stay and play. If the 'Cats had won, Wofford would have been able to protest the
game because the refs, hired by Davidson, were late. That left the Wildcats damned if they did win and damned
if they didn’t. The Terriers won, 3-2, and they scored after eight minutes of play on a penalty kick charged
to the Wildcats on a push. Hall Barnett mopped up on a play to tie the game, and Bill Wahl
gave the Wildcats the go-ahead goal on a penalty kick later in the half. Davidson had played a good first
half, but the wind came out of their sails in the bottom half of the contest. Three minutes into the
second half, Wofford knotted the score at two, and it wasn’t long before they snatched up the 3-2 margin. Davidson
didn’t help its cause when late in the half Barnett went goalie, leaving the Wildcats with a ten to eleven
man disadvantage.

Saturday the team hosts ETSU, and a win would bring home the soccer team’s first winning season since 1974 and
a fourth-place Southern Conference finish.
