The Back Page

Valter Despalj

Valter Despalj, a cellist, will be performing in the 900 Room on January 22 at 8:30 p.m. His program will include J. S. Bach’s Suite No. 4 in E Flat Major for Cello Unaccompanied, Introduzione, Arioso, Danza by contemporary Yugoslavian composer Boris Papandopulo, and the Sonata in A Major by Cesar Franck. Pianist Becky Silver will accompany Despalj in the last two works.

Yugoslavian-born Despalj has studied at the Juilliard School of Music and the Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow. He has won many awards and competitions and performed in concert halls throughout the world. Despalj is also a faculty member of the Zagreb Academy of Music.

Edward Wilke

Edward Wilke, singer and guitarist, will be entertaining in the 900 Room Friday and Saturday nights. A folk singer from Charlotte, Wilke will be making his second 900 Room appearance.

Events on Campus

Thursday, January 17
8:00 Dr. Thomas Moberg, Director of Academic Computing at Grinnell College speaking on “Trends in the Use of Computers at Selected Liberal Arts Colleges” G10 Martin Science Building

Friday, January 18
8:00 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: Superman (PG) Love

Wednesday, January 23
12:30 Open Luncheon: Dr. Herta T. Freitag on “One Way Ticket to America” 900 Room
8:00 Dr. Herta Freitag: “Mathematics as an Art” 900 Room
8:00 Fine Film: Eight and a Half Love

Herta Freitag

If the mid-terms and papers of your fine liberal arts education have given you the mid-winter blues, take a break Wednesday and come meet Herta Freitag.

Mrs. Freitag is a mathematician and teaches at Hollins College in Roanoke, Virginia. Her interest in mathematics extends beyond its technical aspects to the history and philosophy of the field. Wednesday night she will talk about “Mathematics as an Art.” It will be a non-technical talk that all students can understand.

A native of Vienna, Austria, Freitag did graduate work at the University of Vienna. When Hitler annexed Austria in 1938, her father was dismissed from his post as managing editor of Vienna’s leading newspaper and the family had to leave their homeland. In 1944, after living in England for a number of years, Freitag’s quota number came up and she and her mother sailed for America. At the Open Luncheon Wednesday, Freitag will share the story of her escape in her talk, “One Way Ticket to America.”

In 1948, she received her M.A. in mathematics from Columbia University and joined the Hollins faculty. She was awarded her Ph.D. in mathematics from Columbia in 1953. Freitag taught at Hollins for 23 years before retiring in 1971. She returned to the Hollins campus to teach during the 1979-80 academic year.

Articles on mathematics by Freitag have been published in Vienna and the United States. She is a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and is listed in Who's Who Among American Men of Science, Who's Who in Austria, World Who's Who of Women, and the World Directory of Historians of Mathematics. At a math coffee Wednesday afternoon, Freitag will talk about “A Novel Divisibility Algorithm,” a new process of division which she has just researched and published.

In Charlotte

A wide variety of musical entertainment is offered in the Charlotte area during January and February. Purchase tickets early so you won’t miss these special events.

Saturday, January 19
8:00 pm Oratorio Singers present “King David” Ovens Auditorium
With guest William Conrad as narrator. Davidson’s Donald Plott will conduct. Tickets are $8, $6, and $2. Call 332-8151.

Thursday, January 24
Cincinnati Symphony Ovens Auditorium
Tickets are $3.00 and available at the College Union Ticket Office Monday-Friday, 2-5 pm.

Saturday & Sunday, January 26 & 27
8:15 pm Charlotte Symphony Orchestra with guest Pierre Feit, oboist
Tickets are $9.00 and $4.00 for students. Call 332-6136.

Friday, February 1
8:15 pm Ella Fitzgerald Concert Ovens Auditorium
“Miss Ella” with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra
Tickets are $12.00 and $10.00. Send mail orders to Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

Tuesday, February 5
8:00 pm The North Carolina Symphony Dana Auditorium, Queens with world-renowned violinist Igor Oistrakh
Tickets $4.00 and $2.00 for students. Inquire at College Union Ticket Office. Discounts good until January 28.

Y Retreat

Want to get involved? Anyone who has worked with the Y or who has not and wants to learn more about it—you’re invited. Come with us to Camp Greenville, the weekend of January 25 for a great time. To sign up contact Minor Sinclair, Elizabeth Medlin, Katherine Allen, or Chip Legerton.

Dana Auditorium, Queens

Pat Terry Group

A special trio will be performing Sunday, January 20 in Love Auditorium. Performing most of their own music in a “smooth mellow style,” the Pat Terry Group plays songs alive with the message of Christ. “Whether folk ballad, country, blues or country rock, the songs seek to communicate old truths with striking newness.”

All Georgians by birth, the members of the trio are Pat Terry, Sonny Lallerstadt, and Randy Brigg. A prolific composer, Pat Terry has written over 200 songs which concern “all of the everyday areas of life that Jesus helps us with.” The group has produced four records with Myrrh Records.

The performance begins at 8:00 p.m. Advance tickets are $1.00 and are being sold by the Union Ticket Office and all DCF members. Tickets will be $1.50 at the door.

Sports

Friday, January 18
4:00 Swimming: Washington & Lee Away

Saturday, January 19
9:00 Wrestling: Citadel Tournament Charleston, S.C.
2:00 Swimming: VMI Away
Rifle: West Carolina Conference Clemson, S.C.
7:30 Basketball: U. of Tennessee—Chattanooga Davidson

Monday, January 21
7:30 Basketball: Marshall Davidson

Tuesday, January 22
7:00 Women’s Basketball: Bennett Greensboro

Edited by Jean Soracco