- THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914

Concern Isn’t Enough

It is time for President Spencer to do something about the atrocious level of faculty salaries besides stating that he
is “deeply concerned.” Dr. Spencer is the first to admit that the continued decline of already meager faculty salaries against
inflation is a serious problem. Yet when we try to remember what steps Dr. Spencer has taken towards ending the
decline, or ask Dr. Spencer how he plans to cope with it, we draw almost a complete blank.

The Administration is pursuing the goal of running each area of the College as efficiently as possible. It seems to
be meeting this goal, yet holding down everyday costs has not prevented serious drops in the value of faculty salaries
and there is no reason to believe this strategy will succeed in the future. As Robert Manning points out in
his guest column on page five, faculty salaries here are so low as to be an insult. The typical professor
here is making only $20,731, a rather small sum these days. On average, an Assistant Professor makes only $166 more
per year than an auto mechanic in Mecklenburg County. These salaries obviously are not the kind that help recruit good
new professors, or retain older ones.

Although its standing has dropped some in recent years, Davidson’s pay scale is about the same as at most other
institutions of our size and type. Yet Davidson must also compete with universities for new professors, as Manning points out,
and the disparity between Davidson salaries and university salaries seems to widen every year. The better prospective professors look elsewhere,
and older professors consider leaving Davidson and education altogether.

Low faculty morale is possibly the most direct effect of Davidson’s salary problems. The almost uninterrupted decline of faculty salaries
against inflation, combined with the Administration’s inaction, is turning the faculty into a collection of exasperated paupers. The faculty is
understandably losing faith in the Administration and the teaching profession, and this loss must surely affect their teaching performance.

It would be very unfair to place the blame solely on Dr. Spencer, the Board of Trustees, or the Administration
in general. Rising inflation and expected drops in the number of high school graduates are nationwide problems which hit Davidson,
like any other college or university, very hard. Davidson’s problems are complicated, and their solutions are not always simple. But
Davidson needs to re-examine its goals and priorities as a college. The Administration’s stand-pat policy is doomed to failure. We
must question practically everything the College is now doing in hopes that we can find some way to pay our
faculty what it needs and deserves.

Do we really need a new Arts Center, Sports Center, and a grandiose Commons? It seems that the quality education
that reasonable faculty salaries can provide would be a much stronger and more desirable lure to prospective students than buildings.
Is it not ridiculous to plan our physical facilities to accommodate 1600 students when current faculty financial needs are so
pressing? The amount of money saved might not be tremendous (it could have been larger had enrollment plans been re-examined
sooner), but at least it would not be wasted.

Are our fundraising strategies what they should be? The 1987 program is just meeting its original goals, but these may
be rendered inadequate because of inflation. Can we afford our present football and basketball programs? Both programs have their merits,
but the goals set for them seem to be unrealistic, and may interfere too greatly with the prime function of
this school: education.

We propose that Dr. Spencer establish a committee of concerned faculty, administrators, and students to examine these and similar questions
with the aim of finding solutions to the faculty salary problem. Faculty morale would be boosted, faculty and student criticism
would be channeled in a useful way, and something might even be accomplished.

Barrett $11,435 1966-67 Average Faculty Salary in Constant (1966) Dollars (Source: American Association of University Professors) $10,053 1976-77 $9,680 1978-79
$9,205 1979-80

Learning Is More Than Studying

Lyman Collins

In making the quantum leap from Davidson College student to Davidson College Union staff member, I have encountered my share
of frustrations. I have been introduced by faculty members as a “stalwart senior;” I have had to pull Union desk
duty for tardy, but well-meaning students; and I have too often resorted to Snack Bar junk food when my schedule
was too tight to allow time for more decent fare at home. All of theseFrustrations, however, are trivial (and even
funny), because I can exercise some degree of control over them. The really bad frustrations, the ones that cause ulcers,
are those beyond my control. One of this type has really been bothering me lately. It is one of this
type that has me writing for The Davidsonian again after a two-year hiatus. My job involves assisting students in programming
co-curricular events at the College Union. Therefore, I go to a great majority of student activities. Herein lies my frustration.
I go to a performance and always wonder why there aren’t more people there. I must confess a part of
this is my job; it’s my bread and butter to look over the audience and assess the “success” of an
event from a strictly numerical angle. Let me quickly say, though, I don’t believe success is measured by numbers. For
me, success boils down to whether or not the audience had a good time. Did the people (performers and audience)
leave with a good feeling? Were they affected by the performance? Did it make them think?

The answer to those questions for the vast majority of events during the short time I’ve been on the job
has been a resounding yes. Which brings me back to my original question and frustration: why weren’t more people there?
Why didn’t, or couldn’t, everyone experience those “good” feelings? I know everyone’s tastes are not the same. I accept those
people who don’t go to something simply because they don’t like it, provided they’ve already given it a chance. But
it’s those other people who have already made up their minds that frustrate me. It reminds me of myself when
I was small. “Eat your broccoli,” my father would say. “But I don’t like it,” I typically would respond. “But
have you tried it?” Of course, I didn’t like everything, but now I do love broccoli.

Fundamentally, a liberal arts education should broaden an individual’s perspective. It should liberate his mind from automatic prejudice. A liberal
education should encourage one to seek out new experiences and explore fresh possibilities. Many people complain that they don’t go
to see an artist because they’ve never heard of him. Colleges should be innovative and encourage the offbeat and original.
Just because a performer has a “name” does not automatically make him a success.

Naturally, this being Davidson, the most frequent excuse used for not becoming a part of an audience is too much
work. This is very understandable and I sympathize. My mother said to me all too often, “Remember, you’re there to
study.” But study is a pretty broad word. And I quickly learned to adapt it to mean also study outside
of the classroom. One often hears the cliché: The majority of learning in college doesn’t come from a textbook. But
the uncomfortable thing about clichés is they are all too often true. Probably the best advice I got before coming
to college came from a tough-as-nails high school English teacher. She predicted that in college many opportunities for learning would
come outside of the classroom in the form of artists, lecturers, and performers who would come to campus. “If you
get the chance to hear a concert or see a play or go to a speaker, drop everything and go.
Even if you get behind, because those opportunities will be gone tomorrow when your books will still be there,” she
said. Amazingly, these out-of-classroom activities often feed and enrich the in-classroom endeavors. Experience leads to experience. It’s called serendipity.

None of this answers my question or solves my frustration, because in the end if we want to find the
time for something we will. At a place like this, so many new experiences happen and so many opportunities present
themselves that it is impossible to absorb it all. Just remember education is much more than GPAs and graduate school.
Unless, of course, that is all you want your education to be.

Lyman Collins ‘79 is a former Executive Editor of The Davidsonian.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Sheri Gravett, Executive Editor
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Aida Doss, Features Editor
Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor
Van Beck, Sports Editor
Karen Sandlin, News Graphics Editor
Karen Long, Circulation Manager
John McDowell, Advertising Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Therese Photography Editor
Marshall Waddell, Production Associate
