THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 9
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
December 5, 1980

Athletic budget up $90,000, basketball revenues drop
By ROY FULLER
Staff Writer

Last year the College’s net athletic expenses were $90,798.21 higher than those of the previous year. They were only $24,547.35 higher than the 1978 expenditures, however. College President Samuel Spencer recently released these figures in an account of athletic expenses for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1980 (see chart on page 3). The Board of Trustees decided in 1973 to make the budget public each year. This is the third time the figures have actually been released.

The football program accounted for 25% of net expenditures. Basketball cost 32%, other sports 31%, and physical education 12%. Women’s intercollegiate sports accounted for 9 percent. Game income went down $20,447 from 1979. However, while basketball game income went down $61,913, football game income rose $41,466. The single greatest expense increase was in the physical education program, while the single largest cut was in general expenses, which include office supplies, laundry, and auto expense.

Comptroller Robert Davidson said the additional $9000 for the Physical Education program was needed to fund the horseback riding program’s move to the lake campus. Previously, a gift to the College covered the costs of the riding program, which had operated off-campus. The cuts in general expenses stemmed from a moratorium on the purchase of typewriters, automobiles, and certain office supplies, Athletic Director Eugene Bingham explained.

Physical Education Director Sterling Martin and Wildcat Club Director Sandy Carnegie pointed out that because of the broad categories used in the printed budget, some of the figures did not thoroughly explain the allocation of funds in their areas. Martin said that none of the $9000 increase in the physical education program actually went to the support of intramurals and physical education classes. Carnegie explained that the printed budget only lists those Wildcat Club contributions that go to need-based football scholarships, and does not list contributions to other sports. The Wildcat Club ordinarily awards grants to replace all loan and job offers given to football (See Budget, page 11).

This siren’s scream will signal the beginning of this Saturday’s nuclear evacuation drill. (David McCurry)

Telephonathon raises $5600 first night
By ANN MITCHELL
Staff Writer

Students solicited over $5600 from alumni Tuesday, the first night of Telephonathon sponsored by the SGA and the Development Office. Student volunteers are making calls to alumni this Tuesday through Thursday and next Sunday through Thursday, said Genevra Kelly, co-chairperson of the fundraiser with McNair Helm and Derek Harbin.

The Telephonathon is helping the College meet a $100,000 challenge grant from the Charles A. Dana Foundation. The grant provides two dollars for every one donated by an alumnus giving to the College for the first time. It equally matches the contributions of those who have donated previously.

Field hockey finishes well
By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

The 1980 Davidson women’s field hockey team capped its best season ever with strong post-season play in the nation’s AIAW Division II tournament. By advancing to the second round of the November competition the team achieved a final national ranking of between seventh and twelfth. Only the final six teams in the competition received a specific numerical rank.

The team beat Lehigh 1-0 in its first-round match on a goal by Mavin Martin. In the next round they drew first-seeded Southwestern Missouri and lost 5-0 to a team that survived up until the semi-final level. Davidson Coach Dee Mayes said S.W. Missouri “had exceptional forwards, but the field play was relatively equal.” Davidson’s next match in the double-elimination tournament was against Northwestern. The (See Hockey, page 10)

Assistant professors’ salaries fall behind
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

Davidson’s assistant professors are not well paid. A study appearing in the September issue of Academe, a publication of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP), showed many North Carolina schools — including Duke, Wake Forest, UNC-Chapel Hill, North Carolina State,and UNC-Charlotte—pay assistant professors more than Davidson does. The average salary for a Davidson assistant professor is $16,400. His counterpart at Duke makes $18,200; at Wake $17,700; at Carolina $19,800; at State $18,300; at UNCC $17,200. Pembroke State ($17,600) and Lenoir Rhyne ($16,500) are among several lesser-known North Carolina schools that pay assistant professors more than Davidson does. However, Academe also rated Davidson in the top five percent among American liberal arts colleges in terms of average compensation paid to all professors and in the top twenty percent in terms of salaries paid to all professors. (Compensation includes salary plus certain special benefits, such as insurance, housing, a retirement plan, and tuition for faculty children.) Full professors' and associate professors’ salaries and compensation compare well with those paid by other liberal arts colleges, according to Academe. It is Davidson’s assistant professors who fare poorly. Last spring The College increased assistant professors’ salaries an average of 14.8 percent. Many professors feel additional increases are needed. 

“We definitely need to devote a higher percentage of any future increase to the lower ranks within the faculty,” Religion Professor Max Polley said. Polley added that while Davidson’s starting salary has always been low, “it has become increasingly difficult to recruit new faculty at present salaries.” Physics Professor Robert (See Salaries, page 10)

One hundred thirty-four alumni made pledges Tuesday night, 38 of whom were contributing for the first time. Edward Crutchfield, President of the First Union Bank and Vice-Chairman of the Living Endowment Drive, said that he is “convinced Davidson would be as much as $200,000 per year better off than we are today” if the Telephonathon had existed when he graduated in 1963. The percentage of alumni who contribute from the classes of 1970-1980 is low. “Most of them have never given before,” said Kelly, so this group has been targeted by the callers. Kelly also added that those are the donors most likely to contribute in the years to come. Approximately 270 students have volunteered for the Telephonathon. Kelly said that the College administration and faculty have been very supportive. Merchants were also responsive (See SGA, page 11)

Evacuation drill to be held Saturday
By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

Davidson students will be able to participate in a nuclear accident evacuation drill this Saturday when the town tests its Emergency Response Plan. The mock exercise will test the responses of rescue personnel to a simulated nuclear accident at Duke Power’s McGuire Nuclear Plant. The federal government requires Duke Power to stage the mock exercise before beginning operation. The mock drill will begin at a random time between 6 a.m. and 11 a.m. Saturday. Upon receiving notification from the county, the Davidson Command Post will sound a three to five minute fire siren blast. County officials are urging all citizens to participate in order to make the drill as realistic as possible. Students who wish to participate should tune their radio to any local station after hearing the siren. They will then be instructed as to what they should do. Participants should tie a white handkerchief to their car antennae. All Davidson citizens will be asked to evacuate to Shepherd School in Iredell County via I-77, N.C. 115, or Grey Road. If Shepherd School is filled, citizens will be directed to either Troutman Elementary or South Iredell High School. Rescue personnel will be present along the routes to direct the citizens. Director of Public Safety J.G. Hughes said that only students with cars or other rides will be able to participate. However, Hughes said that in the event of an actual emergency, persons without rides would assemble at the Fine Arts (See Evacuation, page 11)

Salary Comparisons For Assistant Professors
Source: Academe, September 1980

North Carolina State $18,300
UNC-Chapel Hill $19,800
Duke $18,200
Wake Forest $17,700
City State $17,300
UNC-Charlotte $17,200
Davidson $16,400

Note: This graph represents only assistant professors' salaries. Davidson compares more favorably if one uses associate and full professors' salaries. Also, these figures indicate salaries only, as opposed to overall compensation.