October 24, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Pat Carroll displays the human side of Gertrude Stein

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Assistant Features Editor

Rain. A thunderclap. Rain. Another thunderclap. Light. Gertrude Stein. “Sometimes only in exile can one truly represent one’s country.” A bold, confident chuckle. “It was true of Dante and it is true of me.”

Without warning, almost without mercy, Pat Carroll unleashed upon her audience the arrogant, indomitable, and aggressively self-glorifying personality of Gertrude Stein. Gertrude Stein. Gertrude Stein.

The play is set in Stein’s Paris studio at 27 Rue de Fleurus on the eve of Stein’s eviction. Instead of packing, Stein spends the next two hours rambling on about her life, with fluent hands that dramatically mimed every memory, igniting her small talk and personal revelations into flaming pictures. Her eyes gleamed, scorned, laughed, squinted, dominated; her voice jumped octaves with screeches of excitement, anger, and fat, gaudy guffaws. She spread before her the lives of the legendary people who frequented her Paris salon—Matisse, Picasso, brother Leo, Hemingway, Fitzgerald—and let the praise and the criticism fall where it would, always in complete control. She talked a lot about herself, too. A puff on her cigar, a sip of iced tea, and another excited anecdote. And another, and another, and another...

Despite its one-and-a-half-year stint on the New York City stage, Gertrude Stein Gertrude Stein Gertrude Stein was originally intended for college campuses and concert halls. “I felt that this kind of arrogant personality—this woman who had a dominant personality—would appeal to young people,” explained Pat Carroll after her performance at Love Auditorium Monday night.

Personality is the main accent of Carroll’s portrayal of Stein. Carroll recalled that in 1934, Gertrude Stein toured American college campuses to talk about her exploratory writing, in which she tried to adapt the cubism of Picasso to literary form. Although the response to Stein’s bizarre grammatical innovations was unenthusiastic, Carroll said that “somebody did something right, because these kids really learned... Maybe it wasn’t the subject matter, but her personality; but at least she made them think!”

The play explores relatively little of Stein’s literary cubism. Instead, it leaves no nook or cranny of her personality untouched. In fact, Gertrude Stein the person dominates every aspect of her life. Consequently, a thorough knowledge of her life and times is not necessary to grasp the message of the piece. Even then, it deals not as much with biographical portraiture as with the questions that arose in Stein’s life, particularly questions having to do with her own identity. Twice she asks, “What happens to identity and memory when they are confronted with eternity?” Throughout the play, she struggles with the question. After accumulating a wall-full of modern art (the latest by Matisse, Picasso, Gauguin, and others), she decides that she must become a writer, to “do with words what they did with paint.” She considers why she...

"GONE IN STYLE"
A comedy to steal your heart
GEORGE BURNS - ART CARNEY - LEE STRASBERG
“GOING IN STYLE”
A TONY BILL Production - Produced by TONY BILL and FRED T. GALLO
Executive LEONARD GAINES» Directed by MARTIN BREST
Based on a story by EDWARD CANNON
Screenplay by MICHAEL
Music Composed and Conducted by
Distributed by WARNER BROS.
© A Warner Communications Company
© 1979 Warner Bros. Inc. All Rights Reserved
SMALL TECHNICOLOR

Friday night 8 & 10:30
Love $1.50 or Season Pass

"And my writing stopped," — Gertrude Stein.

(David McCurry) left America for Paris, and why it was necessary to break her close relations with her brother Leo over intellectual disagreements about art. At one point she shakes an invisible Pablo Picasso "by the lapels," like a stern mother, forcing him to accept his identity as a painter and to give up attempts to write poetry. "Words are not his métier," she insists calmly.

Carroll stressed Stein's struggle with identity in its relation to the student audience: "Students in this college are here because of identity. They want to find out who they are. And I think, at least in this play, that is the most important thing..."

She further emphasized leaving her audiences with the questions raised. "The most important thing," says Stein, "is coming up with the questions. There are no answers—no answers!—only questions." And when Stein asks them, the questions become challenges. Explained Carroll, "She’s a big picture. She allowed herself to be human. She allowed herself to be arrogant. She allowed herself to be petty. The Chortling Matriarch of 27 Rue de Fleurus. She allowed herself to use her brain and wasn’t ashamed to say, 'I want to be a genius!' We're all afraid to do those things today."

English Professor Cynthia Lewis commented, "The readiness with which she accepted new artistic movements...speaks to us as members of a small town in a traditional place and urges us to look at our own lives from a new perspective, in a new light."

Added Carroll, "This allows me...to say some things I think are important about living—not about art or about writing—but about living."

Student response to Stein seemed enthusiastic if not uniform. Sophomore Elizabeth Kiss, for example, emphasized Stein’s ability to recognize her limitations, overcome them and affirm herself: "She just decided to say, 'Well, I’m going to be a genius.' She decided that she would be one!"

In contrast, junior John Hartman admitted, "I still feel like the only reason Gertrude Stein is famous is because she knew a lot of famous people."

In any event, Carroll’s hope "that somebody gets hold of a word or a thought" seemed fulfilled when, after the performance, a freshman girl mounted the stage and approached Carroll for an autograph. Carroll took the program from her, and, writing, said, "You'll notice how I sign all these things now: Identity always! I started doing that because of this play...it seemed to me that’s what it’s all about." She handed back the program.

"Thank you, it’s really been great," said the girl, beaming with admiration. Before turning to leave, she said, "I know I'll be reading about Gertrude Stein."

Carroll looked up at her and answered, smiling, "Well good, it won’t hurt ya!"

(David McCurry)