The Back Page

Hodding Carter to Speak

State Department spokesman Hodding Carter III appears before a large crowd of answer-hungry reporters each day at Department Headquarters in Washington to tell America what the government is doing about world affairs. He will attempt a similar feat here at Davidson this Monday in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m. If you're interested in knowing how the winds of world events are blowing, you won't want to miss his talk on “US Foreign Policy in the ’80s.”

Carter has been the Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs since President Jimmy Carter (no relation) took office in 1976. His face and voice have become familiar to millions of television viewers during the crisis in Iran, since it is Hodding Carter who delivers the government's day-to-day updates on the matter. Correct phrasing and communication to the public of daily events in Washington and the world are crucial elements of foreign policy, where the smallest mistakes (or a bad choice of words) can have serious repercussions around the world. Time magazine has described Carter as “a master of the diplomatic metaphor, using colorful figures of speech with a surgeon’s precision.” His reputation for being frank and straightforward has brought him wide acclaim among both political and journalistic circles in Washington.

Carter's position on the White House Staff follows a career of journalism and public service. He spent 12 years as editor and associate-publisher of the Delta Democrat-Times in Greenville, Mississippi, before taking his current post. The recipient of several journalism awards, Carter served on the Pulitzer Prize juries of 1972, 1973, and 1974. He has written a book, The South Strikes Back, and contributed to other books, newspapers, and magazines. His interest in politics involved him in numerous organizations, a notable one being the Young Democratic Clubs of Mississippi, which he co-chaired for three years, participating in its reformation to a biracial organization. He campaigned for Lyndon Johnson in 1964 and owes his present position to his work on Jimmy Carter’s 1976 campaign staff.

Carter's talk will be free of charge. Come on out if you want some fresh insight into the political shape of things to come between the U.S. and the rest of the world.
—JOHN KROTCHKO

Mellow Taylor

Livingston Taylor will be performing in the 900 Room this Saturday. Taylor's mellow music and thoughtful lyrics (along the lines of his brother, James) have gained recognition. Tickets are going fast, but a few are still available at the Union Ticket Office, so get yours now. Showtimes will be 8:00 & 10:00 p.m.

Wind & Brass Ensembles

The Davidson College Wind and Brass Ensembles will perform at 8:15 this Tuesday (March 18) in Hodson Hall, and the concert will be unique if nothing else. Planned as a finale for the ensemble's successful spring tour, the program is a culmination of much practice and hard work on the part of the 32 musicians.

The concert will feature a collection of colorful pieces, ranging from the works of Giovanni Gabrielli, a 16th-century composer, to those of Elie Siegmeister, a 20th-century American composer, and various artists in between. The unique feature will be a presentation by the brass ensemble, who will form four separate choirs in four corners of the room, surrounding the audience with selections by Buxtehude, Reiche, and Gabrielli. The wind ensemble will also perform, with selections by Bernstein, Dvorak, and Siegmeister. Admission is free.

Ohio Ballet

For those of us who can appreciate the finer things in life, the Ohio Ballet will be performing at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium on Friday, March 14. The 20-member dance company, which the New York Times has praised as “the best news in ballet this season,” will be initiating its North Carolina tour here on campus, and a full house is expected.

The troupe was founded in 1968 by the German dancer Heinz Poll, who presently directs the group. One of America’s most popular dance companies, they have performed across the country—notably at the New York Dance Festival, the Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, the inaugural season of the Spoleto Festival USA, and the pre-eminent dance festival, Jacob's Pillow.

The associate director and resident designer for the group is Thomas R. Skelton, an instructor at the Lester Polakov Studio in New York and an associate professor at the Yale School of Drama.

The Davidson performance is part of the Davidson College Artist Series. A limited number of tickets are available for $2.00 at the College Union ticket office.

Organist Riley

Organist William A. Riley will present the seventh in a series of Vesper Concerts at 9 p.m. Monday, March 17, in Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Riley studies at the Royal School of Church Music in England, as well as in Germany and Italy. His specialization is American organ music of the 20th century, and one of the composers represented on the program, Wilmer Hayden Welsh, is a music professor at Davidson College. The recital also will be broadcast live on WDAV.

Diverse Trio

The Davidson favorite Loonis McGlohan Trio will be returning to Davidson this weekend to perform in the 900 Room. This group's diverse repertoire includes a variety of styles, with a good mix of jazz and the “swing sound” of the big band era. These people make great music, so come hear them Friday (March 14) after the Artist Series or Saturday (March 15), 9:30 & 11:00 p.m.

Events on Campus

Saturday, March 15
5:00-7:30 Spaghetti Dinner sponsored by the FIJI pledges Emanon $2.50 at the door. Everyone welcome.
8:00 & 10:30 Pop Film: Live and Let Die

Sunday, March 16
3:00 Libertarian Party Forum
Three party candidates will speak and answer questions. 900 Room

Tuesday, March 18
8:15 Wind Ensemble Tour Concert Hodson Hall

Wednesday, March 19
8:00 Fine Film: Monty Python and the Holy Grail
8:15 Guest Artist Series: Ward Davenny, pianist Hodson Hall

Thursday, March 20
10:30 Dr. Orlando Patterson, Prof. of Sociology, Harvard 900 Room
3:00 Dr. Orlando Patterson Morrison Room

Edited by Jeff Herrin