December 12, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

Lady Cats shoot poorly in openers
By CRAIG WHITE
Sports Editor

“Disappointment” is perhaps the best word to describe the two opening games for the women’s basketball team as the Cats fell to Barber Scotia 53-46 and to Meredith 50-37. Last Friday night, the Cats were anxiously awaiting what most observers felt should have been a win over Barber Scotia, but things didn’t turn out that way as Davidson shot a dismal 23%. Only center Mike Frankhouser shot over 50% as she tallied a team-high 16 points. According to Coach Dee Mayes, “Poor shooting and a high number of turnovers really hurt us. We just didn’t play well either game.”

Although not shooting especially well, sophomore Carol Heppner and senior Kirby Owen added 12 and 11 points respectively in the Barber Scotia game. Matters became even worse Tuesday night against Meredith as Davidson’s women connected on only 24% of their field goals and a poor 21% of their free throws. The game as a whole was full of turnovers—a whopping 55! Of those, the Cats committed 29. Guards Kirby Owen and Mitze Short and Forward Carol Heppner must commit fewer than their night total of 20 turnovers if the Cats hope to have a respectable season. Perhaps the team’s only bright spot was the rebounding power shown by Carol Heppner and Mike Frankhouser who racked up ten rebounds apiece. Their effort will be needed after Christmas as the Cats face a tough Notre Dame squad.

Mitzi Short drives in for one of Davidson’s few high percentage shots.

Wildcats shock Marshall in double overtime, 79-73
By CRAIG WHITE
Sports Editor

In what was the squad’s best game to date, Davidson’s Wildcats edged out powerful Marshall University 79-73 in double overtime Monday night. The win followed a 97-79 thrashing at the hands of East Tennessee State Saturday night. In the away game at Johnson City, Tennessee, East Tennessee’s Buccaneers jumped out to a quick 10-5 lead, but the Cats didn’t let the game slip away in the first half as senior forward Todd Haynes pumped in 13 points on tap-in shots and jumpers from the 15-foot range. Haynes continued to lead the Cats in scoring, winding up with 20 against the Bucs. The second half was almost all East Tennessee State as the Cats just could not find the bucket, shooting only 44% compared to a scorching 61% for the Bucs. After five minutes of second half play, the Cats scored only on two shots by center Jamie Hall, yet allowed the Bucs 14 points; crucial to the outcome was Hall’s fourth foul with 15 minutes left to play. Davidson couldn’t get back in the game despite an outstanding effort by freshman guard Kenny Wilson who ended with a season high 19 points, 12 of which came in the second half. The Bucs outscored Davidson 54-43 in the second half, going on to win 97-79.

It was on that note that the Cats trudged up to Huntington, West Virginia to meet Marshall University Monday night. Perhaps a note of good things to come was Rich DiBenedetto’s two layups, the first scores of the game. With 15 minutes left in the first half, Davidson’s confidence was bolstered as Todd Haynes was hacked on a 15-foot jumper and went on to complete the 3-point play, putting the Cats on top 11-6. The two teams traded hoops until the first half buzzer sounded with the Cats narrowly leading 31-30. Davidson came out fighting in the second half as the two teams traded baskets. But at the 3:41 mark, the Cats found themselves down 59-50, yet pulled to 65-60 with just 29 seconds to play. How could the Cats ever hope to rally against these odds and against the team predicted to finish first in the Southern Conference? Davidson did rally as sophomore John Carroll connected on (See Basketball, page 11)

Young wrestling squad shines at Catawba tournament
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Last year, the Wildcat Ten, which numbered the Wildcat Seven, finished with an abysmal 2-9 record. Little else could be expected with three forfeits in the lineup. This year,Excluding injuries, the filled team places promise a better finish. The Cats' performance this past weekend at the Catawba Tournament exemplified what second-year Coach Bob Estock expects in squad reliability.

HUDDLE Restaurant
Wide Screen TV
Happy Hour Every night 5-7 pm
Large Pitcher Draft $2.00
Try one of our favorites:
Pizza
Bar-B-Q Chicken
Spaghetti
314 S. Main Street (2 blocks south intersection of Hwys. 115 & 73)
Cornelius, N.C. 892-8468

From returning team members and in surprises from the freshmen, senior Svend Pedersen placed fourth at Heavyweight, sophomore Van Wagner finished second at 142 pounds, and freshman Dan Metzel fielded a second at 150 pounds. Estock expects leadership from senior Captain Dave Nichols (190 pounds), senior Eric Reintsema (167 pounds), sophomore Tim Brotherton (158 pounds), junior Scott Smith (134 pounds), Svend Pedersen (heavyweight), and Van Wagner (142 pounds). Promising freshmen include Dan Metzel (150 pounds), Eric Hill (118 pounds), Mills Antley (118 pounds), Todd Kemsey (126 pounds), John Breidenstine (150 pounds), Doug Ammar (150 pounds), John Hughes (150 pounds), Bob Kear (158 pounds), and Tate Nichols (177 pounds).

The team is young, but Estock says, “The guys work hard and give 110 percent, so I expect a good season.” Many of the team members have good backgrounds in wrestling, and Estock feels a few will be Southern Conference contenders. Southern Conference competition is stiff. The conference is loaded with fine wrestling schools including Appalachian State, the Citadel, VMI, and defending champs University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Although Estock sees most of the team strength in the middleweights, he commented, “I hope we really improve and develop team pride. If we can put it all together we can be very solid.”

Although the team grappled its way to a pair of good showings in the dual-meet Catawba tourney, it will find out just how good it is at Pfeiffer on Saturday and at Furman on Wednesday. This will be an exciting season for the Wildcat Ten, and if the takedowns fall the right way, it could be a winning season.

Students pay $100 to $200 a year to attend these schools, but this is often not enough to avoid bankruptcy, Keller said. Libraries and facilities are non-existent or inadequate. This year, two of the schools, Eshinutsa and Shikokho, are “close to desperate,” according to Miller. Dean of Students Will Terry explained that the Council on Campus and Religious Life chose to target this year’s fund drive to Kenya because “this is a place where Davidson is really having an impact on the Third World and on people.” Students will go door to door next week to all on-campus and most off-campus students soliciting contributions, Terry said. “Money there can be used very effectively,” Keller said. He and Darbyshire, another former Kenya volunteer, are visiting the campus this week to help publicize the fund drive. “I’ll be exhorting people to give with a clean conscience,” Keller said. Money provides the “materials and opportunities” necessary for achievement, Darbyshire added.

The volunteers face other challenges as well. An American volunteer can be a “unifying force” in an area, Darbyshire explained, but he or she must deal with community rivalries and power struggles sensitively. Volunteers at one school last year unwittingly became embroiled in Kenyan politics, resulting in some loss of their authority as teachers. Overall, Davidson volunteers have an excellent “track record” among the schools, Wood explained, but such risks remain.

The harambee school fulfills an important purpose, Darbyshire explained. All Kenyan students must pass a national exam at the end of the seventh grade in order to continue their studies. Also, the secondary schools, unlike the primary schools, cost money to attend. Local schools, then, provide a place to go both for those students who, perhaps because of inadequate primary schooling, could not pass the exam, and also for those who did pass but who cannot afford the state secondary schools.

Students interested in going to Kenya should talk to Ken Wood in the Office of Experiential Programs. Others may choose to be “good stewards” in the fund drive instead.