- @—The Davidsonian—May 9, 1980

Considerations of space keep me from apologizing for all the many times I have been wrong, and candor compels me to admit that if I had it to do over again I would probably make the same mistakes; not out of spite, mind you; just bone-headedness. I am glad I lost my fights to keep Davidson racially and sexually segregated; on both counts, I was wrong at the top of my voice.

We'll still be living here at 511 North Main Street and will be honored to receive visits, especially from those desirous of kittens. We promise to offer no gratuitous advice; and I shall try to refrain from telling old jokes. And may you all be in heaven five minutes before the devil knows you’re dead.
Charles E. Lloyd

—Walden—

(Continued from page 4)

The entire weekend was enhanced by the general atmosphere of Concord, which still retains a definite 19th-century flavor. Most of the downtown shops are small and unpretentious, and the graveyards and many of the churches stand just as they did 120 years ago. The Concord River is still there, too, and several people rented canoes for a few hours of boating.

Others poked around in bookstores or visited the Concord Free Public Library with its mezzanines of glassed-in bookcases and ornate chandeliers. In Walden, Thoreau wrote that “to my astonishment I was informed on leaving college that I had studied navigation! — why, if I had taken one turn down the harbor I should have known more about it.” (The Portable Thoreau, p. 306) In the same way, our trip to Concord was more enlightening and educational than any equal number of hours spent in a classroom would have been. It was a thoroughly rewarding and beneficial journey.

@ Special DAVIDSON Student Rental plan with ID
@ FREE T-shirt with ID with rental
@ FREE delivery or first month’s rent
@ Special DAVIDSON Graduate Purchase Option Plan
@ Guaranteed New Merchandise
@ Rent one Room or an entire Apartment
@ 24-hour Delivery Service
@ Quality Furniture Wide Selection
@ FREE Apartment locator service

VISIT OUR BEAUTIFUL SHOWROOM
5438 East Independence Blvd.
Charlotte, N.C. 28212
(704) 536-8876

The world can be big and bad for some. For others, it looks much easier. Survival means different things to different people. Is it luck or preparation? Preparation seems to be the key. Consider the leadership training and management skills you can develop in Army ROTC. The edge. That margin of difference that can put you ahead in the big, bad world of tough job competition.

You may be a sophomore. Or have just two years remaining in school. It’s not too late to add Army ROTC. And add experience to your degree. Contact CPT Neil Touchet Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170

Army ROTC.
Learn what it takes to lead.