THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Kincaid’s The One.

Davidson faculty, staff, and local students may be as disgusted with the prospects in this year’s presidential election as the rest of us, but at least they have a good choice for U.S. House of Representatives—Randy Kincaid.

Both Kincaid, a Davidson Economics Professor on leave, and his opponent Jim Martin, an ex-chemistry professor here, agree that the economy is the most important issue in their race for the Ninth District House seat.

Economy — Kincaid’s plan of attack on inflation and unemployment arises from a strong knowledge of the problems of the American economy as well as of economic theory in general. Kincaid, a Democrat, has pointed out that inflation is caused by many factors, most significantly OPEC oil price increases. Kincaid maintains that the United States needs to develop several new tools in order to cope with our economic problems, and realistically recognizes that some of our economic problems are beyond governmental control.

One of Kincaid’s new tools would be moving to a four-year federal budget which would require Congress to do more long-range economic planning and cut down on excess government spending. Kincaid explains that a four-year budget would reduce year-end wasteful spending by government agencies who do not wish to return unspent funds back to the general fund.

Martin, a Republican, simplistically blames inflation on the federal government. He explains that rising oil prices, for example, are not a cause of inflation because “You can buy oil today cheaper than you could have 20 years ago if you buy with constant coinage” (The Davidsonian, October 24). Constant coinage means the value of the metal in metal currency, Martin says, yet all this tells us is that the prices of metal and gold have risen concurrently. Unless you've been stowing away trashcans full of coins every year, rising oil prices both constitute inflation and cause inflation since the price of oil is a component of the price of practically every other good or service in our economy. Martin’s view of inflation is economic gibberish.

Martin supports the Kemp-Roth tax cut plan, but he has been unable to really explain how he could reconcile the cut with a balanced budget, particularly since he wants to increase the defense budget. Martin said “cutting the fat” in federal spending would help balance the books, but both Republicans and Democrats have cited this same goal time and again without ever making any real progress towards meeting it. Both in his past record and his campaign rhetoric, Martin has given us no reason to make us think he could do any better.

Defense — Both Martin and Kincaid have advocated a strong defense, but Kincaid seems to have a much better knowledge of how we can get a strong military, opposing some systems and endorsing others. Martin seems ready to give the Defense Department a blank check for any new weapons system they desire, ignoring Kincaid’s suggestion that we strengthen our conventional forces through better pay and encourage Japan and our European allies to shoulder their share of our collective defense burden.

Kincaid supports passage of the Equal Rights Amendment. Martin has opposed the ERA, saying in Thursday's Charlotte Observer, “My principal reservation is that the present amendment isn't going anyplace. It’s not being ratified, it doesn’t look like it's going to be ratified.” Martin went on to say he would like to re-word the amendment to make it more palatable to the public, but we question the value of having a representative in Washington who will not support a measure almost solely because it is unpopular.

Randy Kincaid is a good and capable man who has a solid understanding of the major issues as well as specific proposals to help solve our problems in defense and the economy. Jim Martin seems to have jumped onto the conservative bandwagon before gaining a strong understanding of the issues. Instead of having a representative who votes on the basis of a knee-jerk conservative reaction, we would like a Congressman who has thought about the issues and will speak his mind. We think Randy Kincaid should be that Congressman.

— Mark Barrett

"AT LEAST SOMEONE APPRECIATES US! THE WHITE HOUSE WANTS TO PUT US IN CHARGE OF COMPILING THE INFLATION FIGURES"

The Campus Forum

Eco No Good

To the Editor:

It grieves me to read “informed” commentary which only succeeds in illustrating the ignorance, and even worse the narrow-mindedness of the authors. I was thus grieved when reading the article in the Oct. 17 issue of The Davidsonian entitled “Forty Dollar Patterson Court Fee No Solution.” Ignorance, unfortunately, cannot be pleaded by the authors; the article was obviously well-researched. Equally obvious, however, are the factors conveniently left out. Specifically, the authors failed to mention that the existence of large waiting lists has little if anything to do with the establishment of this policy. Fundamentally, the use of thePolicy would allow Patterson Court houses to retain some kind of balance between academic classes; it must be realized that the maintenance of this class balance is essential for the future well-being of the houses. I read on, thinking the authors will have to present this rationale eventually. I was, of course, wrong. What I did find, however, was a proposal that the houses “could promote... stability by incorporating a supply and demand situation into their operations.” SUPPLY AND DEMAND? Did the authors desire to suddenly achieve rank as “eco-studs” by magically inserting the words “supply” and “demand” in their article? I would hope that one day the authors might learn that the houses of Patterson Court base their prices on cost. To want it any other way is an absurdity. What rationale would one use for the distribution of places on Patterson Court via price? Do the authors wish to penalize those students whose finances are marginal in order to implement some absurd policy that has absolutely no relevance to this situation? I guess it must be the magic of those wonderful words...

Jim Tholen ‘81

Phonathon

To the Editor:

In the next few weeks you will probably be bombarded with a wave of publicity regarding the upcoming SGA Phonathon. In determining the extent of your participation, you will naturally be evaluating what your present obligation is to Davidson. That is, what role does the current student have in development at Davidson College? We would like to stress that the student body can and should assist in raising funds to support a College budget of which tuition constitutes only 45%.

There are basically two reasons why the reluctant student should consider participating in development activities. The first concerns our use of facilities that were endowed to Davidson by previous generations of alumni and friends of the College. As Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross once pointed out, we have fallen heir to buildings we didn’t raise and programs we didn’t begin. We have enjoyed so far the fruits of others’ labors, and perhaps it is our responsibility to begin our own endowment of the College. Contribution to the College does not necessarily begin only after graduation; rather, such contribution can commence while the student is still at Davidson, and it does not have to take the form of monetary gifts. Time and effort spent assisting development at Davidson is certainly as valuable as the money you could presently give.

The second of these reasons concerns the fact that tuition and student fees do not constitute the entire operating budget of the College. In fact, tuition covers only about 45% of the budget, while student fees add only an additional 18%. Thus the income from students pays only 58% of the approximately $11,300,000 per year it costs to run the College. Where does the other 42% come from? (No, it’s not from pop films revenue). A lot of it comes from individuals and corporations outside the College community in the form of grants, gifts, and endowments as solicited by the Development Office. The success of this office in meeting their year-to-year goals can be measured by the ability of the College to keep tuition and fees down. What we want to stress is that there are many ways students can aid the Development Office in meeting these goals.

The most immediate of these ways is the SGA Phonathon which will run the first two weeks of winter term. Its goal is to assist the College in meeting the Dana Challenge Grant which matches (in varying proportions) funds given by the College’s alumni this year. During the Phonathon, students will be calling many classes of alumni to solicit gifts to Davidson. This project will be one of the few times the student body as a whole has the chance to serve the College. The SGA will need a great deal of student participation, and we would like to encourage all interested students to contact their senators for more information. The experience should be interesting, rewarding, and (we think) fun.

Stuart Dorsett ‘82
Kevin Wheelock ‘81

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
Lisa Buckley, Production Associate