February 15, 1980—The Davidsonian—6

> Cliff Tribus goes for two of his fourteen against South Carolina. (Trey Thies)

By VAN BECK
Sports Editor

The Wildcats put together a fine performance Wednesday but clutch play in the closing moments propelled Wake Forest to a 61-53 victory. The score was not indicative of the game’s nature as Davidson was forced to foul in the waning seconds. Tough breaks down the stretch, including a questionable offensive foul whistled on DiBenedetto with the score tied at 51, proved fatal to the Cat cause. Several Deacon misses from the charity stripe were rebounded by Wake Forest players in the last minute and driving dunks by Jim Johnstone and Alvis Rogers sealed the verdict.

Todd Haynes paced the Wildcats with 18 points while Richie D. powered home 13. Freshman Cliff Tribus drilled five of six from the floor for 10 points. Alvis Rogers led the Demon Deacs with 22.

Davidson turned the tables on their seasonal pattern against South Carolina in the Coliseum Saturday night. Instead of folding down the stretch and conceding defeat, they forced South Carolina to overtime before succumbing 78-77. Despite the loss, Wildcat performance was most encouraging.

South Carolina built a nine-point halftime cushion on the strength of its post players, 6’11” Jim Strickland and 6’8” Cedrick Hodges, who combined for 47 points on the evening. The Cats, however, clawed back in the second half with excellent shooting (32 of 58 for the game) and pressure defense. Todd Haynes finally knotted the score at 69 with 4:28 left in regulation. With matters tied at 71, Davidson had an opportunity to win, but Rich DiBenedetto’s follow shot of an errant Haynes jumper missed and time expired.

The Cats jumped to a 75-71 lead in overtime but a Strickland dunk followed by a Hodges bucket brought the Gamecocks back. Davidson led again 77-76 before Zam Frederick canned one from the right baseline with 24 seconds left. Subsequent misses by DiBenedetto and John Carroll preserved the Gamecock win. Richie D. once again led the Cats with 19 points while Haynes added 14. Freshman Cliff Tribus also tallied an assortment of points from the wing area. Rowan connected on 5 of 6 field goal attempts and collected two from the line for 12 points. All in all, it was a solid performance for the Cats, whose overtime record on the year is 0-3.

Coach Biedenbach commented, “You can never be satisfied with a loss, but there wasn’t a lack of effort Saturday night. Turnover-wise, it was our best game of the year and offensively we shot well and exhibited good patience. Things just didn’t go our way at the end.”

Next Saturday the Cats travel to Boone for an all-important Southern Conference contest. A loss would relegate the Cats to the lower bracket play.

Rich Perkey and Tim Bowker see a future for Davidson basketball:

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

Two of Davidson's three basketball seniors have not had such an easy time of things over their four years as Wildcats. Besides their unimpressive seasons, Rich Perkey and Tim Bowker have had other areas of their college life where changes might have been welcome. Perkey sat on the bench for his first two years “playing” without...a scholarship. “I have always enjoyed playing,” he said, “and I thought I could make the team. But after two years, I had gotten to the point where I didn’t know if I could play or not. I had to find out about myself.” He got his chance in the first game of his junior year; this was also the first game for new head coach Eddie Biedenbach. Perkey said he played more in that game than he had “collectively in the two years before.” That was a good moment for him and the point guard from Va., earned a scholarship.

Bowker had a tough time, also. “I don’t know that I have a lot of regrets basketball-wise except for not being able to play more.” The “otherwise” is what gave Bowker trouble. “I was kind of blind to a lot of things I would have to do academically,” he said. “I had to get things in perspective and learn how to budget my time wisely. Academics should come first over basketball—academics is what is important.”

“It took me a while to get used to the school, too,” he said. “Davidson has such a large majority of different kinds of people; there’s such a different atmosphere from what I was used to. If I could go back, I'd try to be better prepared and wouldn’t have looked strictly in terms of basketball.”

Bowker was recruited by Dave Pritchett and then played his sophomore year under John Kochan before Biedenbach came last year. “I had to learn a lot about adjusting with all the coaching changes, but the experience will help me later. Everybody has to learn how to accept changes.”

Both players will quickly acknowledge the great amount of time required by basketball. “The bad thing about playing basketball,” Perkey said, “is there’s not a lot of time for other things. I'd love to do an internship or go JYA or something, but with basketball, there’s just not time for many things.”

The time commitment is mental as well as physical according to Bowker. “It’s hard to go right from practice to studying. I eventually want to go back to school, like business school, but I've had quite a bit of it for now.”

They see a future for Davidson basketball, too. “Given time, Coach Biedenbach will do well here,” Bowker said. “The program has a stabilizing factor now, and they just have to keep learning new things. You have to let the system develop; the upperclassmen need to have confidence and a good attitude. They need to know what’s expected of them.”

Perkey concurred by saying, “A basketball program is just that—an established way of doing things. Stability is the key. Biedenbach has the ability to turn things around. It’s getting to be his program now—his players and not Pritchett’s or Kochan’s—and things will change.”

A problem of the past according to Perkey has been too much satisfaction with “close losses and good efforts.” “But the school needs to change its goals,” Perkey added, “from gaining national prominence to winning the Southern Conference championship and getting into the NCAA tournament. There are more and more good teams in college.”