(Continued from page 1)

part of Davidson’s 1987 Program, a long-range fundraising effort headed by the College’s own development staff. The other two areas
are endowment and facilities. Spencer said the program, which is now “on target” in its fundraising, will continue to place
equal emphasis on the three areas.

Spencer said the building program was the response to the question, “What does the College have to do in order
to attract students?” The building program consists of E. H. Little Library, Martin Science Building, and Cunningham Fine Arts Center,
all completed, and a planned Sports complex, Dining Commons, and dorms. All of the buildings for general use are planned
with a student body of 1600 in mind, according to the long-range goals of the Co-education Plan of 1970-71. Now,
in light of projected declines in enrollment, Spencer said, there is “no plan to increase (enrollment) in the foreseeable future.”
However, options remain open for 1600.

Would it be advisable to divert money from the building program in order to alleviate the immediate problem of faculty
salaries? Spencer said no, pointing out that any construction should be completed as soon as possible because of inflation. Moreover,
he said, general facilities will still be designed “to keep the January 18, 1980—The Davidsonian—Spencer” since donors often designate a
specific use for their gifts, “you can’t assume that money from item A can be used for item B.” Nor
would redesigning general facilities for 1300 instead of 1600 students make a “substantial difference,” Spencer said. The increase in the
projected cost of the Commons from two to three million dollars, for example, was due in part to inflation and
was largely covered by a one-half million dollar gift. Spencer emphasized the importance of the Commons as a protection “against
the time when small group dining (the Patterson Court system) is no longer efficient and economical.”

As for trying to trim the building budget, Spencer insisted “it is not that elaborate. When you get down to
cutting parts off the budget you see there really isn’t a whole lot you can do without hitting it with
a meat axe.” “The real question,” Spencer said, “is whether we need the buildings.” He added that a great many
people agreed on their necessity in attracting students.

Other plans to draw students and counteract the decline in enrollment are the “systematic use of alumni” in admissions, increased
recruitment in areas outside of Davidson’s traditional southeastern constituency, and further development of the prospective student list, Spencer said. The
Admissions Office is in the process of formulating two five-year plans to handle admissions strategy in the ‘80s. The goal,
Spencer said, will be to keep enrollment steady. Growth would only occur if there was a plan to raise the
number of women students or to increase income. The student-faculty ratio will stay fixed at 13 to 1.

The policy for admitting women in the ‘80s will basically remain unchanged, with the admissions ratio periodically adjusted to the
ratio of applications. “Two to one is not going to stay,” said Spencer, “if the ratio of women applicants far
outruns it.” (For this year’s freshman class, there were 996 male and 514 female applicants.) Ultimately, Spencer predicted that Davidson
would move toward a 1:1 ratio rather than equal access admission, pointing out that equal access would probably lead to
a majority of female students.

Spencer proposed no major changes on college financial and admissions policies over the next ten years. Financially, “we’re pretty economical,”
he said. At present, Davidson has no formal organization to evaluate the college’s goals and priorities. As for major shifts
in Davidson’s traditional atmosphere in an effort to combat the pressures of the 1980s, Spencer ruled them out. “We view
our present system—a community living and working together—as part of the process of education,” he said. That is not going
to change.

Join Us!

Interested in working for The Davidsonian? Positions are open in all areas of the newspaper—we need writers, photographers, typists, proofreaders,
business and administrative assistants, etc. No previous newspaper experience is required to work with The Davidsonian. If you want to
get involved and are willing to devote some time to the newspaper (you determine how much), come by the Davidsonian
office between 3:30 and 5:30 Monday afternoon or during the ten o’clock hour Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday.

(Continued from page 1)

Also, Haynes said Dean of Students Will Terry felt release of the number of Honor Code violations by students would
be “a violation of the integrity of the (Dean’s) office and the privacy of students.” When asked his opinion on
athletic policy, Haynes refused comment. “I’ve tried to be very objective, and the Committee as a whole has been very
objective.” Other Committee members were John Davis, Tim Harden, Donna Iles, Genevra Kelly, Noelle McHugh, L. D. Simmons, and Richard
Terry. “We had a good spectrum of opinions on the Committee,” Haynes said. “I don’t think that (we were) biased
at all.”

(Continued from page 6)

Williams’ performance. After the show, Williams talked about “Dylan Thomas Growing Up” as well as his other endeavors in a
Morrison Room reception. And there was much to talk about. He has acted with some of the greatest performers of
film andstate—Ingrid Bergman, Vivien Leigh, Gary Cooper, and Laurence Olivier. He has had numerous works published, including his best-known play,
"The Corn is Green," which starred Bette Davis in the 1947 film version and Katharine Hepburn in last season’s television
special. Thomas is indeed a man of rare talent and stamina. His audience was treated to a delightful one-man show
by a delightful little Welshman, "about medium height—five foot, six inches." Like he said, "That’s medium for a Welshman."

Williams Average GPA by Varsity Sport
Men’s baseball 2.61
Men’s basketball 2.47
Men’s cross-country 3.03
Men’s football 2.55
Men’s golf 2.99
Men’s soccer 2.86
Men’s swimming 3.00
Men’s tennis 3.04
Men’s track 2.61
Men’s wrestling 2.90
Women’s basketball 2.91
Women’s cross-country 3.35
Women’s field hockey 3.11
Women’s tennis 2.93
Women’s track 3.19
Coed sailing 2.99
Coed rifling 2.96
All students 3.07
All men 3.07
All women 3.18
Source: SGA Athletic Committee

CCRL News At A Glance

Contract Renewals
The contracts of the following professors have been renewed: Art Professor Russ Warren, Music Professor Bill Lawing, French Professor George
Poe, Religion Professor Michael Root, History Professor David Shi, and Music Professor James Swisher. The Administration reviews untenured professors' contracts
periodically.

Davidson Shopping Center opens
Lowe’s Supermarket will open in the new Davidson shopping center Sunday at noon. Lowe’s is located next to Cornwell Drugs,
which has been open since December.

NC-PIRG sponsors Generic Drug Law
The work of several Davidson NC-PIRG students contributed to a state law which went into effect January 1 and is
expected to save consumers up to $6.5 million yearly. The law requires pharmacists to fill prescriptions with low-cost generic drugs
rather than brand-name drugs if the patient’s doctor approves. New prescription forms will have a special space for a doctor’s
approval. A committee of Davidson students did a study last year of several Charlotte area pharmacies which exposed the price
discrepancies between generic and brand-name drugs. Pamphlets describing the law are available free from Davidson NC-PIRG Chairman Susan Marynowski in
Little 309, phone 6168.

(Continued from page 1)
(Kremser) could totally destroy players’ positive attitudes about themselves.” “It’s bad he had to be fired,” Robbins said, “but he
left the College with no alternative.” Track team member John Hoots said, “Kremser was given an impossible job with his
responsibilities to both soccer and track. It’s hard to get a non-scholarship program to succeed here.” “I know some people
are frustrated, complain, but it is usually because of their own personal frustrations,” Hoots said.

Different types of houses
The freshmen and sophomores will be voting for the type of house which they might like to join as charter
members. The other house on their ballot will reflect what they feel would best complement Patterson Court. The juniors and
seniors will be voting for their preferences in terms of competition and social options they want available,” Terry said. After
the vote is taken, the Council will begin accepting applications from groups interested in occupying the houses. Although the straw
vote is not binding, it will aid the Council in deciding which applications to accept, Robertson said. For example, if
students decided to put a coed eating house last in its list of preferences, then the possibility of accepting an
application from this type of group would be slim. Likewise, if students wanted to add another coed house, an application
from a coed house would be very easy to accept, Robertson said. The Council will submit its proposal to Terry
after all the applications have been submitted. Robertson noted that deciding which applications to accept will be a difficult task.
The decisions will be made based on four criteria: 1) financial stability, 2) personality of the house in relation to
the Court, 3) overall organization, 4) support among members. A well-thought-out program will be essential if a group wants its
application accepted, Robertson added.

(Continued from page 5)
With a glint in his eye, the great Ragu informed me that the answer to this was to be found
in my own dream of the symbolic rise of the cesspool prospect from the john and my subsequent blackout. “But
great Ragu, is there nothing we can do? Isn’t there some way to be sure we can draw top-notch students
to Davidson in future years?” I gasped. The Ragu thought deeply and replied, “We could show lots of good movies.”
“Silly Ragu, Flicks are for kids,” I scoffed. To which he agreed, and the issue went unresolved. For it is
a dismal fact that at other schools at least, academic standards will have to drop in order for some institutions
to survive. Will the same happen here? Considering the fact that Davidson is receiving record numbers of applications, probably not.
Still, it is an issue that needs to be closely watched.

I allowed to leave the wiser. Strangely enough, that ominous another. You see, I'm standing lamppost on a foggy London
bundled in my trench coat, selling me really intense college brochures to perverted passersby. There’s one with a fold-out on
student statistics. Great. Oh, well.
