Boyce & Teague, Holt & Wall run for advisorships
By ANNE GOODWIN
Staff Writer

Two teams of hall counselors are running for freshman advisors. Margaret Holt and Jeff Wall oppose Barbara Boyce and John Teague. The freshman advisors’ responsibilities include organizing the selection and training of next year’s hall counselors and advising them throughout the year. The advisors also act as a link between the Dean of Students’ office and the counselors. The advisors must be a team of two former hall counselors, one female and one male.

Holt is hall counselor on second Richardson and is a member of Rusk House. Wall is hall counselor on first Belk Center East and is a KA. According to Holt and Wall, freshman advisors should be careful to present candidates for hall counselor with a realistic picture of the responsibilities of the job so as to prevent feelings of disillusionment. The advisors should also give an objective account of Davidson to incoming freshmen. Holt added that they would keep in touch with the hall counselors throughout the year.

Boyce, who is also a member of Rusk, is hall counselor on first Richardson. Teague is hall counselor on first Belk East and eats at Fannie and Mabel’s. Boyce and Teague emphasized the freshman advisors’ role as counselor to the hall counselors. Boyce sees the freshman advisor as a “manager-type” who provides a link between hall counselors and the Dean of Students and cohesion among the hall counselors. Teague said he would like to see more students get involved in helping the freshmen. He also said he would work to make the hall counselors a more unified group so that they could advise each other.

Both Holt and Wall said the freshman hall experience is important as an introduction to Davidson. Wall said that although Davidson is not perfect, it “has much to offer.” He would like to be able to present this view to next year’s freshmen. Both Holt and Wall mentioned previous experiences in counseling which they felt would make them good advisors. Wall said he has worked for two summers as a Presbyterian youth minister, while Holt has led a Girl Scout troop in Davidson for the past two years.

Boyce and Teague said that they have diverse interests and personalities that complement each other. Boyce cited their working together as resident advisors as proof of their congeniality. Boyce said she has enjoyed being a hall counselor and helping people learn about Davidson, while Teague said he would like to use his “knowledge acquired at Davidson to help freshmen get a better start.”

Margaret Holt and Jeff Wall (top) are opposing John Teague and Barbara Boyce (bottom) in the freshman advisor race. (Mark Sheffield)

December 12, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Handbook candidates stress their experience
By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

Two teams of juniors are running for Wildcat Handbook editor this year. Candidates Steve Carter and Patti Long are opposing Donna Iles and Barbara Kelley. All of the candidates said they have a special interest in freshmen. Iles and Kelley pointed out that the Handbook is very important because it is “one of the first impressions” freshmen

---

Snead to edit Miscellany
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Junior Parks Snead decided to become Miscellany editor after a spur of the moment conversation Wednesday night with the literary magazine’s advisor, German Professor Julius Winkler. Snead, an English major who likes to write fiction, said he did not sign up for the editorship because he was not fully sure what the job entailed. However, when Winkler told him no one was running, Snead accepted the editorship without hesitation.

Snead now edits fiction submitted to the Miscellany. Snead described the basic operation of the Miscellany as “cut and dried.” Writers from all over the country mail works of poetry and fiction to the magazine. “We get so much stuff, it’s unbelievable,” Snead said. The student staff members—who number about eight or ten—read through the submissions and pass the better ones along to Winkler and the editor, who make the final decision of what to publish. The whole process is done informally, with no staff meetings, Snead said.

The Miscellany’s contributors are scattered from “California to Charlotte,” and Snead wants to make sure the magazine continues to represent a diverse group of writers. For example, he plans to ask friends at other colleges to advertise the Miscellany to their classes. Snead said the editor's role is not to innovate: “The innovations...are made by the people who put stuff in it.”receive of the College. Carter and Long said that their publishing and personal experience are their strongest assets. Long was features editor of last year’s Handbook and Carter edited and sold advertisements for the “SAE Charity Calendar.” Both are hall counselors and “know what kinds of questions freshmen ask,” they said. “We think it is really important that the people putting the Handbook together are active on campus so that they know the people to get in contact with,” Carter and Long said. They added that representing both sexes would enable them to produce a more balanced (See Handbook, page 8)

Turnbull & McAlister vie for Y secretary
By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

All Y Student Service Corps positions, with the exception of secretary, are uncontested this year. Sophomores Gordon Turnbull and Kim McAlister are running for secretary. In his second year of membership in the Y, Turnbull chose to run because he views it as the next step in increasing his involvement with the service club. According to Turnbull, the Y is “one of the best activities on campus,” and he wants to help in its work in any way possible. As he sees it, his duties would involve not only the regular secretarial jobs but also close work with the other officers to plan different activities. McAlister, currently one of the heads of the Senior Citizen Program, sees the job as an opportunity to become more involved in the Y. Although she has never been a secretary, McAlister was an officer in several of her high school clubs. Aside from typing, filing, and sending out letters, she said her position would entail working with the other officers to plan programs and design policies. In this way she hopes to continue the Y programs because they “have been so good this year.”

Parker, Biddle, West assume Union posts
By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

Candidates for the Union offices of president, co-curricular vice-president, and social vice-president are running unopposed in this year's election. Junior Edith Parker will be president, junior John Biddle for co-curricular vice-president, and junior Jonathan West for social vice-president. As Union president, Parker will conduct interviews for committee chairpersons, preside at Union Board meetings, inform committee chairpersons of upcoming events, and represent the Union on certain campus committees. Parker plans no major changes for the Union under her leadership. “I don’t think there really need to be many changes,” Parker said. “I think the way it has been run in the past year has been really good.” However, Parker does plan to solicit more student involvement in the Union Programs. Parker points to her past involvement with the Union as her qualifications for the office. Parker served on two Union committees her freshman year and attended the National Entertainer and College Activities Association convention her sophomore year. She is currently chairperson of the Campus Forum committee. Biddle’s main task as co-curricular vice-president will be...

Two to edit yearbook
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Juniors Karen Welty and Lori Boardman will be co-editors of Quips and Cranks, the College yearbook, next year. “I hadn’t really thought about doing it,” Welty, who now does layout work for Quips and Cranks, said. But when she heard that no one had signed up to run for the editorship, she decided to make a commitment. Welty asked Boardman, a friend of hers, “to share the frustrations and work.” “We have the same attitudes about what a yearbook is and what it should be,” Welty said. Welty was editor of her high school yearbook three years in a row. Boardman has no yearbook experience but said her background in art will be applicable to yearbook design. Welty and Boardman both expressed dissatisfaction with past editions of Quips and Cranks. Welty thinks the book ought to be unified around an artistic theme, for past editions have lacked quality of layout. “There's a lot of wasted space,” Welty said. Also, Welty plans innovations for their own sake: “The yearbook has been the same from year to year.” She wants to make sure it does not become “static” in its style.

Junior John Spangler will be the next Y president. Spangler described the Y as a “liaison” between the College and the community. “The Y gives students a chance to break away from the me-ness of Davidson and to develop the service attitude which, I feel, is essential to a complete education,” Spangler said. Junior Mary Murrey is the only candidate for vice-president. According to Murrey, “the Y Student Service Corps is a group on campus that is becoming more and more important.” Dumas has decided to serve the...