THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Trimesters Trap Students

Only a few people seem to care whether Davidson operates on the term or semester system. The rest either cannot
make up their minds or just have not considered the idea of changing to semesters. But the question should be
considered. Semesters are better.

Semesters would allow students more room to decide how to structure their education. The term system prevents students from taking
advantage of the many semester-long programs other schools offer. Since the vast majority of schools in the United States operate
on the semester system, Davidson students wishing to spend time abroad, at another college or university, or in some other
special program, have almost nowhere to turn.

Winter term also presents a major problem under the term system. The three weeks of classes before Christmas just do
not make a lasting impression on students. Professors must resign themselves to teaching two separate courses winter term unless they
wish to spend the first week of classes after reviewing the earlier material. Of course, proponents of the term system
argue that retention is even more of a problem under semesters by saying that students are bound to forget the
material learned at the beginning of a semester by the semester’s end. Yet the student maintains contact with his subject
throughout the semester while Christmas break seems to be the perfect opportunity to forget under the term system.

Critics of the semester system also worry that semesters might kill Davidson’s valuable Humanities program and severely disrupt laboratory schedules.
But a credit-hour system could easily be instituted to allow necessary extra time for Humanities and other special courses. Besides,
Humanities students complain even now that the program is superficial simply because they do not have time to keep up
with Humanities’s heavy reading load. Semesters could provide the time by spreading out the workload.

The guess that semesters might force morning, evening, and Saturday labs is just that—a guess, and a bad one at
that. Moving to semesters would not change the number of students taking science courses, nor would it increase the time
these students would have to spend in the laboratory. Laboratory schedules might indeed have to be changed, but the changes
would probably be for the better since students would have longer blocks of free time under semesters than with terms.

Even though it might be hard to tell by Davidson's highly pressurized atmosphere, there is more to a college education
than book learning. College is a time to learn about yourself as well. Taking a long weekend or simply looking
inward is almost academic suicide under the term system. The more spaced-out workload under a semester system could allow students
to lift their noses from the grindstones and learn how to become people, not merely doctors and lawyers.

Above all, semesters would give students time to think about their courses. Students are so immersed in the day-to-day battle
against papers and reviews under the term system that they cannot get any perspective on the subject matter. Professors find
themselves using class time to drill in factual information instead of discussing the meaning and theory of the facts learned.
The purpose of a good education is to teach the student how to question, think, and understand, not merely how
to ingest. The slower pace of the semester system would allow this.

The semester system has too many advantages to be ignored. If the faculty wants to help students learn how to
think and understand themselves instead of merely retaining a set of facts, it will look at the semester system.

Winter Is OK

To the Editor:

Sure, Winter Term at Davidson may be the pits as Features Editor Aida Doss pointed out in the January 18
issue of The Davidsonian. But I believe that certain opportunities for fun are possible which can only be taken advantage
of during this “so achingly and overwhelmingly depressing” term.

By Winter Term you should be accustomed to the workload. Reviews and papers should be almost as routine as wisdom
teeth extractions. (Perhaps, though, you aren’t used to such strenuous activities.) True, the weather is horrible, but look at it
as Mother Nature washing her face. Despite the weather and the studies, Winter Term Blues can be made less harsh
if not conquered altogether. Check out some of the golden opportunities which only Winter Term has to offer and take
advantage of them.

Believe it or not, Men’s Basketball is not the only unique aspect of this award. Its selection process involves a
committee composed almost entirely...Of students chooses the recipient from a pool of nominees submitted solely by students. The selection committee
consists of the ten student members of ODK, two students recommended by the SGA, two faculty members, and Dean Terry,
the faculty secretary of ODK. Nominating a professor will require a reasonable amount of time and serious thought on the
part of the student. Nominating forms will be available the eighth week of winter term at the Union desk and
in the Dean of Students Office. Any student may submit a recommendation. These forms must be completed by the first
week of Spring Term. All materials received will be held in complete confidence, used only for the purposes of selecting
this award, and destroyed when the recipient is determined.

In addition to a description of his academic and extracurricular involvement with the nominee, a student must include a personal
evaluation of the professor's strengths and weaknesses in the following areas: 1) respect for and interest in students as individuals;
2) ability to successfully challenge students in both academic and nonacademic endeavors, particularly an ability to instill a spirit of
intellectual inquiry within students; 3) apparent confidence and competence in subject matter, and enthusiasm and effectiveness in communicating knowledge—accompanied by
a continuing interest in professional development; 4) participation in college activities and community affairs; 5) fairness and thoroughness in the
evaluation of students.

We hope that students will utilize this opportunity to honor those professors who have greatly influenced them. We also hope
that the recognition of excellence within the faculty will encourage others to excel and thereby strengthen our institution.

The Members of ODK

PAX Disagrees

To the Editor:

PAX House would like to inform the campus community of a recent decision by its membership concerning the new self-selection
interest statements. In the opinion of the house, the new system is unacceptable. Instead of alleviating the situation, this system
could result in selectivity by the organization rather than by the individual, which would be a serious flaw of self-selection.
As long as any freshman is required to comply with these guidelines, PAX House has voted neither to accept nor
comply with these new guidelines. We encourage other houses and members of the community to reexamine this present policy. The
question is of sufficient import to warrant consideration in a broader forum than a subcommittee.

PAX House

Less Loss

To the Editor:

Our thanks to The Davidsonian for the news article last issue by Jim Crowe reporting the results of the Library
collection for 1978-1979, which was finished in December. I want officially to extend my thanks and appreciation to the Student
Body, the Faculty, and the Staff for their achievement. It very much is their achievement, for it would not have
been possible had either group not cared about their library. Out of over 100,000 items checked out last academic year,
217 were reported lost. Obviously, no book losses are desirable. Yet it is a source of real pride for us
that the number lost this year is 14% lower than the previous year’s number, less than half the number the
last year in the old building, and the lowest number in the previous decade. I doubt that any college library
anywhere can touch that record (of course, they don’t have the kind of students, faculty, and staff here!). Congratulations and
many thanks to everyone. Can we improve on that even more this year?

Leland M. Park
Library Director

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office.
