No suspects in custody yet

Several thefts in occupied dorm rooms worry unsuspecting students

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Three robberies, several reports of a prowling peeping Tom, and a rash of bicycle thefts plagued Davidson last weekend, according to campus patrolman Harold Cook.

Sophomore Margaret LaMotte’s purse was stolen by a man, probably a white male, who entered her room in basement Richardson at 3 a.m. Friday morning. LaMotte lost $35 in cash, a watch, and her checkbook. “I woke up and there was a man by my desk,” LaMotte said, “but as soon as I sat up, he walked quickly out the door.” LaMotte searched the dorm but could not find the man, who she remembers as having “dark bushy hair.” Cook said Campus Security has “a good suspect” in the case.

Sophomore Rob Moore walked into his room in Duke dorm at 4 a.m. Saturday to find a man holding his camera. The man said he lived upstairs. “When I said I didn’t believe him, he put my camera down and took off out the door,” Moore said. Unknown to Moore, the man had taken senior Reed Ellis’s $300 class ring with him. Moore said the intruder was a “short black man wearing army fatigues and a red shirt.”

Shortly after the burglary in Moore’s room, sophomore Todd Thomson, who also lives in Duke, was robbed. Thomson lost his wallet and a gold pocket watch. Thomson said the campus police told him there were two suspects in the case.

There were also “five or six” reports of a peeping Tom in the vicinity of Carnegie Guest House last weekend, according to Cook. Cook said the peeping Tom is a 5’8” tall white man. “We know who he is,” Cook said, “but we've got to catch him.”

Campus Security has received “ten to fifteen” reports of stolen bikes, Cook said, but added that most had been found. Cook urged students, especially women living in first-floor rooms, to pull their shades down and lock their doors at night. He also said more lights are needed in the vicinity of Richardson dorm. The women in the basement of Richardson have decided to lock the back door every night, LaMotte said.

“This campus is Christian,” junior Skip Brown commented, “but the outside world isn’t.”

This buggy was bought to replace the old campus patrol car.

September 26, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

(Trey Thies)

Campus police give up Ford for a Cushman scooter

By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Correspondent

Campus patrolmen are upset about having to give up their patrol car for Cushman scooters. The patrolmen claim that the loss of the patrol car will lessen their efficiency. Also, they say injured students will now have to pay more money for transportation to the infirmary.

Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze said he decided to use scooters “to develop a department that is primarily concerned with student protection.” The small size of the scooters will make it easier for the patrolmen to cover the entire campus, Meetze said. Also, patrolmen will be more visible in scooters than they were in the patrol car.

“They took away our main way to prevent crime,” Sergeant Harold Cook said. The scooters, according to Cook, are

College

(CPS) The cost of going to college has hit record levels again. The most recent data, released by the College Board, show that average tuition in private, four-year schools skyrocketed by 10.1 percent during the last academic year, to $706. If that wasn’t enough, the total price of a college education—including housing, supplies, and tuition—increased even more. The board said an average student at a public, four-year school can expect to spend $3409 in 1980-81, a 12.7 percent increase over 1979-80. Average costs in private, four-year colleges are up 14.3 percent, to $6082. Inflation, of course, is being blamed for the increases. Since the 1977-78 academic year, tuition has been pushedup 25-28 percent at private schools, and 19-21 percent at public institutions. But inflation is not the sole source of the financial chaos.

Trustees — (Continued from page 1)

SGA President David Waddill urged students to talk to Trustees about the need for the College to provide more effective job placement for seniors, especially in the area of corporate recruitment. Waddill also suggested that students and Trustees discuss student involvement in fund-raising for the proposed sports complex. Taylor said she will post a list in the Union early next week indicating which house each Trustee will visit. She stressed that students should feel free to attend the discussion at any house. SGA Student Trustee Contact Committee Chairperson Sherburne Laughlin said over half the forty-four members of the board plan to come to campus.

Top-heavy, unable to take fast turns, and have a maximum speed of 35 m.p.h. He fears that the college crime rate may increase when potential offenders learn of the relatively slow speed and loud noise of approaching scooters. The patrol car will no longer be available to transport injured students to the infirmary. In the past, members of the Davidson Emergency-Rescue Service (DERS) used the car. Now, more expensive than ever currently afflicting most of the nation’s colleges and universities. Spurred somewhat by the 1979 passage of California's Proposition 13 and other cost-cutting measures, many state legislatures have become more fiscally conservative. Furthermore, the recession has dwindled fat state budgets to rib-showing levels. Some 20 states report declining revenues according to Jacob Stampen, senior policy analyst at the American Association of State Colleges and Universities. Stampen said states like Washington, with cutbacks in its lumber industry, and Michigan, with auto production down, may be especially hard hit. Public schools in those states can consequently expect less state aid. But cost increases at private schools may have gotten high enough to convince students who would have enrolled at them to go to public colleges instead, according to some observers. “The increases at private colleges may make students think twice about where they want to go to school,” warned Steve Leifman of the Coalition of Independent College and University Students. “And current students may have to ask themselves if they can really afford to continue at the institution they're at.”

According to DERS member Skip Brown, students will have to use the North Mecklenburg Ambulance Service. The Cushman scooter, Brown said, is too small and bumpy to accommodate even a moderately injured person. The cost for ambulance transport from campus to the infirmary is $48. A trip to the hospital costs an additional $48. School insurance will pay the transport fee, according to Dean of Students Will Terry, or private insurance will “probably cover it.” However, Terry said he hopes the ambulance is not necessary in every case, because the high price would “shoot the insurance rate up if it (the ambulance service) is abused.” Terry said he hopes to work out a system of “people on call,” perhaps with the APO service fraternity, to take students to the infirmary. According to Brown, however, a vehicle must be licensed to transport injured persons to protect the driver from a lawsuit in case of an accident. Meetze said the police car was never an official vehicle for the DERS. “They set that up entirely independently of the Safety Department...We always said call the ambulance.” Brown, however, said the car was a “proper” vehicle. Both Hughes and Cook said they will have trouble apprehending criminals without a car and added they will not be able to count on town police for assistance. Meetze, however, said the function of campus patrolmen is prevention of crime, not apprehension of criminals. “Labor expended deterring crime is preferable to time necessary to apprehend someone after the crime has been committed,” he said.

“I’m proud of the professionalism of our officers,” Meetze said. The change, he added, will “strengthen the department.”