With 5 straight losses Baseball out of S.C. race: By STOKES PEEBLES Staff Writer This past week was not a good one for the Davidson baseball team as they lost all five of the games they played. With these losses, the Cats stand with a 14-23 overall record and a 6-7 Southern Conference record with two games left in the season. After being 12-11 overall and 6-2 in the conference earlier in the year, the Wildcats have slumped during recent weeks and lost twelve of their last fourteen games. The week started out with a 12-4 loss to Pfeiffer. About the only Davidson highlight for that game was a John Haskell home run. That was Haskell’s eighth of the season, and he now stands only two away from the Davidson record set by All-American George Weiker in the mid-1970s. On Friday, Davidson again lost, this time to Winthrop 13-9. In this game, the Cats displayed a great deal of offensive firepower, but poor defense hurt the team. John Porter had four hits to lead Davidson, and Allen Griffin added three to aid the nine-run production. The two defeats that most hurt the Cats came in a doubleheader Saturday against Conference rival Marshall. Two victories would have placed Davidson at the top of the league, but the defeats put Davidson below .500 in the conference. John Haskell went three for three in the first game, and Rusty Colechia pitched well, but the Thundering Herd won 5-4. In the second game, the Cats were walloped 8-1. On Monday, Davidson again lost, this time to a strong Wingate team 7-4. John Marshall hit a long home run, his third of the year, to pace Davidson offensively, and Glenn Summers pitched well in the first game he has started this year. Jeff Ray added three hits to the Davidson attack. There seem to be several opinions as to why the Wildcats have not been performing well as of late. Junior pitcher Jon Young said that “the defense finally caught up with us,” explaining that defense has not been performing well lately. Junior outfielder John Porter summed the situation up by commenting, “After the E.T.-S.U. doubleheader, people gave up and we haven't concentrated well since then. We were just going through the motions. But we’re optimistic since we’ll have everyone coming back next year.” There have been several strong individual efforts since the Cats' slump though. Porter still leads the team in hitting with a .378 average, and John Haskell is second while batting over .350. Porter also set the school stolen base record and now has 22 for the year. The season still is not over, but fortunately, the entire team will return next year and will again be strong enough to compete for the Conference Championship.

vs. Montgomery Rebels May 8 Thursday Admission: $1 w/ coupon and current Davidson i.d. Beverages 2° College Night Crockett Park Charlotte O’s BASEBALL! at 7:30 pm

May 2, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

Rusty Colechia has been one of the strongest pitchers in this part of the season.

B&BB find solution to housing problem By BONEHEAD and The BRICK BROTHERS After receiving copious complaints from piqued rising seniors about the lack of available off-campus housing and from freshmen and sophomores about being put on waiting list purgatory, the indefatigable Bill Bolding came knocking, knocking, knocking on B&BB’s Chambers door seeking advice. Being public-spirited and altruistic, not to mention peripatetic and anaclitic, we volunteered our typically timely (also timeless) advice. Granted, some of our advice won’t please everyone, but we’re not here to be Mr. Nice Guy, we're here to help a struggling young housing director. First of all, it has come to our attention that there is a doddering old couple that lives in a rather large white house on college property near the visitor’s parking lot. There seems no logical reason why this coupleneeds such a house. They don’t entertain much—even bachelor-at-large TCPZ turns down their party invitations. This mansion would supply at least 14 students with excellent accommodations. Instead, he could set them up quite nicely in a trailer home in Mooresville to live out their golden years in calm serenity. But what are 14 extra places when a veritable myriad of students are suffering from a social dislocation that is more traumatic than circumcision? A-ha! We have more ideas. Why not free bachelors Will Terry’s and TCPZ’s homes for student use and put them in the 2nd floor Watts triple along with _coffee-you-can-count-on Cora Nelson? Come to think of it, this would free Cora’s home as well. I'm sure we could squeeze 25 students in those 3 houses. Of course, this would keep Watts 211 from student use. But we’d net a +22 from this arrangement. So far our total comes to +36. We’re getting somewhere. We also have some on-campus solutions. 

1) Eliminate all home sports events and convert the Wildcat Hilton into a dorm. 
2) Make all the hallways on the first floor of all dorms into rooms. This would, of course, cause all those living in the conventional rooms on these floors to get out through their windows. This is why we don’t suggest this for floors 2-4. 
3) End the religion-philosophy requirement...ergo...no one will ever take a religion or philosophy class again...ergo...we use the offices of the ex-profs as rooms. I think by now we've created at least 100 new spots. But we won’t stop here. We have our own 1987 plan. This involves detonating a neutron bomb at next fall’s SPE cookout. Of course, there'd be a fallout which would contaminate the SPE house for approximately six years. This would be necessary anyway for complete catharsis. Then the house would be ready for occupation by 1987. This same plan of action could be used at the ATO house. It is, of course, critical that the bomb be detonated with all members present so that there won’t be any more overcrowding on Terson Court. A little ingenuity and imagination mixed in with compassion are all one needs to come up with solutions to problems as sticky as those we've been confronted with. Don’t worry Bill, we're glad to help. 

Now we'd like to check on whether you readers have been keeping up with the critical current events of the day. A quick quiz. 

1. Smoking marijuana is...
   a) anomalous.
   b) all of the above.
   c) both a & c.
   d) a better answer than war.

2. College students have only one word for health insurance repeal:
   a) nice.
   b) boring.

3. Ronald Reagan’s running mate should be...
   a) Sam Maloney and his wife.
   b) Ret Deno.

Thanks for the help. Later.