6—nsinozbivsd 9dT--088i 88 teduieJqs¢

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Founded 1914

Root Of All Evil

College newspapers tend to shy away from stories about their schools’ finances because they feel students aren't interested, except perhaps
when tuition comes up in the discussion. We intend to buck that trend simply because we think Davidson’s financial situation
is too important to ignore for fear of losing a reader or two. Besides, we feel anyone who has any
genuine concern for the well-being of the College will also be concerned with College fundraising.

Despite the impression one might get from the Update or the on-the-record comments of some administrators, Davidson’s financial situation is
not encouraging. Schools and colleges all across the nation are finding that inflation is rapidly eating away at the value
of their endowments. Also, inflation is requiring that they up their fundraising goals in order to cover rising energy costs
and keep faculty and staff salaries livable.

Davidson’s Development staff appears to be working hard to meet the challenge of inflation, but they haven’t succeeded so far.
The College’s main fundraising drive, the 1987 Program, is barely on schedule for meeting its goals set in 1976. Yet
because of inflation, Davidson will have to far exceed these goals if it is to build the proposed athletic complex
and endow any faculty chairs, as the original program called for.

The College is already strapped for enough funds to maintain its present quality of operations. The College cut $85,000 out
of the athletic budget last year even though most coaches said they were just getting by on minimal funds already.
Faculty and staff salaries have steadily declined against inflation (i.e., in real dollars) since the late ’60s. As we've said
before, part of the problem here has been the Trustees’ skewed budgetary priorities, but part of the problem is also
that we simply don't have enough money to pay the faculty what they deserve.

The cost of attending Davidson has steadily risen as faculty salaries in real dollars have dropped. The Trustees approved a
$575 increase in this year’s comprehensive fee last spring, and we have no evidence that this trend won’t continue. So
even though you may see a lot of stories about fundraising in The Davidsonian, don’t fall asleep on us. You
just might wake up to inadequate physical facilities, even more minuscule faculty salaries, and sky-high tuition.

Unfortunate Openings

President Spencer is probably right when he says Julius Melton and his small staff can hold the fort down in
the Development Department until the College finds a new Vice President for Development and a new Development Officer. He noted
that the College got along fairly well during the two-year search for a new Vice President for Academic Affairs, which
culminated in the hiring of Price Zimmermann.

Unfortunately, the College’s financial situation just won't allow a similar wait in filling the vacancies in the Development Department. The
College must build new strategies to deal with inflation and its generally uncertain financial situation. Satisfaction with our present levels
of fundraising will inevitably result in a decline in the quality of all of Davidson’s programs.

We need new leadership in Development now, not two years hence. We are not asking that the administration pull new
Development personnel out of a hat, we are simply worried that just as a lack of foresight in the late
sixties and early seventies is hurting the College today, the necessarily modest efforts of the Development Department now will cost
the College in the future. We feel the administration should begin the process of finding a new Development Officer immediately.
We are also disappointed with the administration's lack of progress in finding a new Vice President for Development.

No matter how long it usually takes the College to find new officials, we can't wait much longer this time.

—Mark Barrett

I KEEP TELLIN’ YA’ GENERAL...IT’S CALLED A PAWN, NOT A DRAFTEE

The Campus Forum

The Grecian Way

To the Editor:

I found Eugene Bingham’s statement “There’s lots and lots of Athens at Davidson. We need a little more Sparta...” most
intriguing. Does our new Athletic Director see himself as Davidson’s version of Lykourgos, the lawgiver?Who (according to Greek tradition) set
up Sparta’s educational system? What improvements might result? Several spring quickly to mind. The first point Xenophon and Plutarch make
in their descriptions of education at Sparta is that unlike other Greeks (Athenians for example), Spartan women “take much trouble
over physical fitness as men.” Lykourgos “instituted contests of speed and strength parallel to those for men” (Xen. Lak. Pol.
1.4; cf. Plut. Lyk. 14.2). Many will welcome this coming change in policy at Davidson, particularly any who are concerned
with obedience to the law (a Spartan characteristic). In order to toughen Spartan youths, Lykourgos decreed that they should go
barefoot and “should habitually wear one garment all the year round to make them more tolerant of heat and cold”
(Xen. Lak. Pol. 2.4). There is no question that this practice will save Davidson a great deal of money. Think
of what we currently spend on football gear alone (football gets two and a quarter percent of the budget, as
Mr. Bingham reminds us)! Whatever discipline problems we have at Davidson would be alleviated if, like the Spartans, we gave
adults whips and the authority to use them (Xen. Lak. Pol. 2.2, 10). Finally, Lykourgos encouraged youths to steal to
alleviate their hunger (remember the story of the boy who concealed a fox under his cloak and, rather than have
his theft detected, suffered the animal to tear out his bowels with tooth and claw until he died? Plut. Lyk.
18.1). Our Athletic Director may have here the solution to student complaints about Slater, others' pets, and rats in the
basements. A doubt creeps into my mind about the effect this might have on the Honor Code—but, following Mr. Bingham’s
advice, I had better stick to history and leave the Athletic Department alone. “Lykourgos” Bingham must know what he is
doing.

Peter Krentz
Professor of History

---

Slaves To Sports

To the Editor:

A little more “Sparta” at Davidson? It sounds good, but I find it hard to believe that Mr. Bingham, our
new athletic director, thinks that football and basketball will bring it. Twenty or more years ago, major intercollegiate athletics in
theory—I am willing to grant that: theory—were a character builder for those who participated. However, those sports have changed. Everyone
knows that today major college athletics are primarily fund-raising techniques. N.C. State does not put out the millions they do
on sports to produce fine, upstanding young people equipped to meet the world. Neither does Davidson. The profit angle is
so overwhelming that the worth of the individual athlete simply cannot be very significant. The buying and selling of flesh
that used to take place on the slave block is now being carried on in the locker rooms of our
country’s institutions of “higher learning.” The morality is no different: said Kant, people are ends, not means. It does not
matter whether football and basketball are in the long run profitable or not. To misuse individuals is wrong.

The main way that big athletic programs “simulate the real world” is that demand often creates a supply whether that
demand is ethical or not. This, I am sure Mr. Bingham will agree, is not a situation appropriate for a
school like Davidson.

Steve Austin ’81

---

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters
must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Brian McMaster, Circulation Manager
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Photography Editor
Glenn Kellum, Asst. News Editor
Harold Lloyd, Asst. Opinions Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Linda Hulburt, Asst. Managing Editor
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Laurie Soper, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
