February 1, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Sam Crawford, Margaret Hunter, Wilkins Carter Poe, unidentified Bohemian, Amanda Hall, Jim Patton, Helen White, and Tom Engle carouse on
the roof.

Bohemians once flourished and flavored campus life at Davidson

By JOHN HARTMAN
Staff Correspondent

What has happened to the Davidson bohemian? Who and what was he? Where did he go?

The concept of the bohemian student is elusive and hard to define. One reliable source said the label "bohemian" necessarily
implies such perverse characteristics as alcohol abuse, weird ideas about sex, and other anti-social personal traits. He said that this,
of course, would make it a great insult to call anyone "bohemian" (though some may have relished the label anyway)
and that Davidson had never really had any.

The Great God Webster, on the other hand, identifies the bohemian merely as "a follower of art, literature, or similar
pursuits who adopts an individualistic, easygoing, and sometimes eccentric way of living that reflects protest against or indifference to social
conventions."

It always seemed to me, on still another hand, that bohemians were just folks who shared a few specialized characteristics—an
aversion to bright colors and man-made fibers, an attraction to folk music, and a penchant for the esoteric and the
obscure. They also would not be bent by the pressure of fads and trends.

It seemed, finally, that "bohemian" had become one of those English department words that everybody has ideas about but nobody
has a concrete definition for. However, by delving into the past it was possible to discover several names that repeatedly
brought nods of agreement from faculty and students when used in connection with the word bohemian.

Bill Barnes '78 appeared to be a prime specimen. He hailed from London and had traveled all over Europe, visiting
many obscure towns. He would frequently write poetry set in tiny Italian villages peopled with men whose "bald heads splattered
on sidewalks." He sported an army jacket and backpack before they were fashionable and jingled more bracelets than Merilyn Graham.
The intellectual aspect of bohemianism was also well represented in Barnes, for under his long blond hair and beard lay
a vast knowledge of Latin and English literature. And he was notorious for the ability to consume huge quantities of
beer on Thursday night and still be able to argue about Shakespeare’s nature imagery with Mr. Lloyd at 8:00 Friday
morning.

The bohemian crowd could usually be found swimming in the water tower or, more prosaically, in the Union. One senior
remembers seeing them every morning at ten, smoking high-tar cigarettes, drinking coffee that looked like crude oil, and discussing the
sublime in disinterested monotones.

A bohemian activity which received a fair amount of publicity last spring was the "one garment" party held at the
Booty Palace, the home of a disproportionate number of campus bohemians. The party was memorialized in last year’s Quips &
Cranks by several pictures of the blanket-clad students carousing on the Booty Palace roof. One of the revelers was Mark
Tyndall.

Tyndall displayed several interesting, if not enviable characteristics, primary among which was the ability to maintain a three-day growth of
beard at all times. A union employee told me that Tyndall’s elbow marks are still to be found in snack
bar tabletops.

Tony Snow was another bohemian character worth a mention. Also a recent graduate, Snow, a philosophy major, was reportedly a
tongue-in-cheek satirist who challenged the status quo, but showed it some respect. He and a few cohorts planned a satirical
magazine called the Colostomy (look it up) which never quite made it into print—a typical bohemian endeavor.

Then there was the guy who lived in the tree. Actually, there were several who spent time in the tree
house behind Ridge Road, but the main inhabitant was its builder, Brian Jacobs, who is now keeping busy protesting nuclear
power.

Digging to the roots of Davidson bohemianism yielded one of the "original long hairs" who carved the way for the
wool and cotton crowd and free verse poets of more recent years. This true giant of proto-bohemianism was Gordon Ball.
He began his Davidson career as chairman of the fine films committee, a post which he used to feed his
interest in underground movies.

Ball managed to get Jonas Mekos, a leader in the underground film movement, to visit the campus. As a result,
Ball went to work for Mekos after graduation. From there he went on to form close relationships with those bastions
of revolutionary art forms, Andy Warhol and Allen Ginsberg. He helped to run Warhol’s goat farm and wrote a well-known
book on Ginsberg, Allen Verbatim. The jacket blurb defines Ball as a filmmaker, photographer, poet, handyman, and farmer, which together
make for a rather well-rounded bohemian. He was last seen under a tree in Chapel Hill reading poetry to anyone
who would listen.

So there are a few of them: some of the exponents of one of Davidson’s most extreme extremes. But where
are they now, these upholders of tradition (granted, it is only their own tradition they're upholding), these leaders of anti-trends,
these bastions of originality? The air in the Union stagnates as we wait to hear a muttered line of obscure
poetry or the clink of a bracelet or two. Return, O beacons of shattered and neglected lifestyle. We falter without
your inspired, dissipated, iconoclastic leadership. Return, return!
