February 8, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

My opinion: Incompatibility led to firing

By BILL WILSON
Special to The Davidsonian

The failure to renew Karl Kremser’s contract at the end of this year undoubtedly surprised many people, although perhaps it
should not have. Kremser, this year's Southern Conference Soccer Coach of the Year, is a man who has definite feelings
about the sport of soccer. These beliefs, however, have often been incompatible with those of the Athletic Department, and as
much as anything appear to have cost him his job.

When he arrived at Davidson in the summer of 1977, Kremser immediately surprised some sports observers with his demanding practice
regimen and his diatribes against slipshod play. The young team failed to win a game that first season. Kremser soon
realized a group of good young players was essential in developing a strong soccer program. Although provided with only a
shoestring budget, he insisted on a heavy recruiting program, and often had to approach Athletic Director Tom Cartmill (See Kremser,
p. 11).

Ernie Riegel reflects on his college basketball career.

By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

If Ernie Riegel could go back to high school and start over, he’d do the same thing; he’d come to
Davidson and play basketball. He’d do a few things differently along the way and maybe hope for better results, but
he has no regrets about coming to North Carolina from White Cloud, Michigan. The only things he says he would
do differently given the opportunity would be “on the basketball court assert myself more, and off-court, I’d get involved in
more activities.”

To do either would be easy for some people on their hypothetical second trip through school, but Riegel hasn’t much
room for improvement. His coach, Eddie Biedenbach, said, “Any basketball coach would like to have a guy like Ernie; he’s
a great floor leader. He's aware of things on the floor and alert to what we should be doing.”

As far as extra activities go, Riegel summed up his feelings by saying, “It’s hard to have any time to
do anything else with basketball at a place like Davidson which is so academically oriented.” Practice time adds up to
about three hours a day for a large part of the school year for Wildcat players. With games and travel
added on to that, basketball players hardly have time for anything else.

Ernie Riegel

“A major problem comes with missing school because of the various away games,” Riegel said, “But most professors are very
understanding; I’m thankful for that.”

Riegel is a senior and is now in his last month of college basketball; his four years at Davidson have
not been easy ones for a Wildcat basketball player. Riegel was recruited to Davidson by Coach Dave Pritchett, and then
played under Coach John Kochan; for the last two years he has played for Biedenbach.

“I had only the faintest knowledge about Davidson when I was recruited,” said Riegel, “but I liked my visit here.
The school was different from the ones at home and I liked it. Pritchett looked good and, at the time,
I thought the program would turn around. We’ve been in a lot of games, but we haven’t had winning seasons.
It’s been a disappointment in that respect.”

Riegel sees the turnover of coaches as one of the main reasons for the team’s dismal results over the last
years. “We haven't had sensitive coach-player, player-coach relationships,” he said, “and that is what we've needed.”

“Davidson needs to stick with Biedenbach for at least another couple more years and let his players establish a close
relationship of understanding, trust, and confidence with him and he with them,” Riegel continued. “A coach needs to have the
players he recruited for four years to see what he can do. Biedenbach’s learned a lot about coaching since he’s
been here.”

Riegel recognizes the “valid point” of the people who question the money spent on Davidson's basketball program, but he holds
that Davidson is recognized because of the basketball schedule. He believes a winning team will calm any criticism and be
the outlet that the school needs.

“We need a winning team to get alumni support; then we'll have something to rally around. People want something besides
just a good academic program like we have here. Basketball can be that something.”

With his English major, Riegel plans to attend law school at either Tulane or William and Mary next year. Aside
from that, his future plans are uncertain. But for the rest of this year, he’s hoping the Cats will get
in double figures in the win column. If we can get some momentum and start playing well, something will...go right
for us at the end of the season. “That'll help a lot in recruiting,” he added. “People look to see
how you end up.”

Wildcats lose to Citadel in overtime Wednesday
By BERT MOBLEY
Staff Writer

The ‘‘Catnap’’ may be over as the Davidson College basketball calendar says, but it’s been a long nap and it’s
taking the Wildcat a mighty long time to arouse himself from slumber.

Davidson lost its fifteenth game of the year (with 7 victories) last night against the Citadel in Charlotte 98-88 in
overtime. The Cats now have an 0-4 record in the Southern Conference with one league game to go against Appalachian
State in Boone Saturday, Feb. 16. The winner of this game will stay out of the conference cellar and meet
league-leading Furman in Greenville in the first round of the S.C. tournament in early March.

Davidson controlled the game last night through the regulation periods but allowed the Citadel to get close at the end.
The Bulldogs took a two-point lead with less than a minute to go and Rich DiBenedetto was forced to sink
two free throws with five seconds to get the 74-74 tie. The Cats had led by as many as 11
points during the game and had a 38-30 halftime lead. Davidson was connecting in the five-minute extra period but got
in a position of having to foul to get the ball. The Citadel’s Greer Huguley went 10-10 from the free
throw line to assure the Bulldogs of their win. The ten-point margin is misleading; Davidson was within four points with
less than a minute and a half remaining in the overtime.

The Cats played without center Jamie Hall who is in a in the loss at Notre Dame. He should be
ready for action in Saturday night’s game against South Carolina in the Coliseum. The competition is no easier next Wednesday
night in Winston-Salem when the Cats take on Wake Forest. While the outlook is not bright in these games, Davidson
fans are looking for the yearly upset which has become a tradition. Two years ago the Cats surprised the South
Carolina Gamecocks and last year had a big upset over Wake in Charlotte.

Davidson opened up the week with a sound drubbing by the Irishmen of Notre Dame last Saturday night. DiBenedetto hit
8 of 14 from the floor and made good 16 of his 22 free throws for a total of 31
points, but the Cats could have used another 31 points and still come up short. Notre Dame finished on top
with a 105-71 final. Three Davidson players accounted for 61 of the Davidson total. In addition to DiBenedetto’s 31, Hall
had 16 and Haynes added 14.

The Wildcats entered Monday night's all-important conference game with UT-Chattanooga optimistically, but the second half syndrome which has plagued the
Cats before struck again. As in earlier games against Furman and Western Carolina, the Cats played close in the first
half and then let things get totally out of hand. UT-Chattanooga turned a two-point halftime lead into a 90-75 victory.

Once again DiBenedetto was the main offense for Davidson with 29 points. Haynes pumped in 18 while freshman Cliff Tribus,
filling in for injured Jamie Hall, scored 16 points. “Offensively, we're doing all right,” Biedenbach said. “We're hitting 50 percent
or better from the floor and 80 percent from the line. Scoring is not our problem, but losing is.” Davidson
had 24 turnovers against Notre Dame and 28 against UT-Chattanooga.

Wildcattes win two, drop one
By KIRBY OWEN
Staff Writer

Midwinters came to Davidson but the Cattes hit the road and were Wild. Friday night they defeated Meredith College, 53-39,
and Saturday night they held on against North Carolina Wesleyan to defeat the Bishops in double overtime, 79-77. As with
all big weekends, the good times have come to an end and they did for Davidson on Tuesday night when
they traveled to UNC-G and were defeated by the Spartans, 74-60.

The Wildcattes' play against Meredith was not overly impressive but their full-court man-to-man defense seemed to the field and 60%
from the line for the game but that was enough to assure a victory as Meredith shot only 17% from
the field in the second half. Sarah Womack and Kirby Owen led Davidson’s scoring with 12 points apiece. Jeanne Womack
had 9 points and 10 rebounds.

Friday night Davidson travels to Fayetteville to take on Methodist, a team that beat Davidson rather handily when they played
before Christmas break. The Cattes’ next home game is Monday, Feb. 11, against Meredith College. Tip-off time is 7 p.m.
