The Matchmaker will be in Hodson this weekend and at Spirit Square next weekend. (Communications Department)

Bicycle thefts plague students
By WALTER LEE
Staff Writer

Junior Karen Long’s bicycle has been stolen three times this year. Sophomore Jim Northrup’s is missing for the third time. Other students report similar problems. Bicycle theft seems to be widespread around Davidson. However, Campus Security Chief J.G. Hughes said that nearly all stolen bicycles are eventually found abandoned around campus. He said only five bicycles have been reported missing this year. All but one of these have been recovered.

Apparently, there are more thefts than what students report. In cases of multiple thefts, the first instance is reported but not necessarily subsequent ones. In other cases, no report is made at all. Students have a casual attitude about the thefts, possibly because of the high rate of recovery and usual lack of damage to the bicycles.

Northrup feels bicycle thefts are indicative of the problems of a growing community. It is something to be lived with, he said. Long said that she is "pretty disappointed" in the people who take the bicycles.

Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross said that to her knowledge no students have brought charges of bicycle theft. Ross likened bicycle theft to taking books from the library without checking them out. She said both of these offenses border on the "gray areas" of the honor system. The Student Conduct Council is "always questioning how to handle cases," she said, adding that this problem was a difficult one. She feels students should discuss whether bicycle theft is a definite violation of the Honor Code and if so, steps should be taken to crack down on students who take bicycles.

Focus on
(Continued from page 1)

Doubling-up of coaches with other sports women’s teams were often "basically coachless." Heppner also pointed out that there is very little recruitment of women. "It’s frustrating. Involvement is great, but you want excellence," she said.

Perhaps the largest problem for women athletes, Ashley said, is that Davidson as yet has no philosophy for women’s athletics.

Satisfied with Davidson?

How happy are the athletes at Davidson? Most say their coaches are understanding, although Barry Prine, who decided not to play football next year because of "too much time if you’re aiming toward a championship, you’re going to have to hurt some people." Some put academics a "distant third" after winning and playing time as criteria for happiness, according to Perkey. But all agree that Davidson is primarily an academic school, and playing sports requires sacrifices.

"A lot of people on the football team are dissatisfied with selecting Davidson," Rhyne said, "primarily for social and academic reasons."

"You were recruited by bigger schools and realize you could be making a 4.0," football player Charles Hooks said. "You're not really happy, but you realize what Davidson could do for you in the future."

"It depends on what you value," fellow team member Sammy Huntley added.

News At A Glance

Board of Visitors convenes

The Davidson College Board of Visitors, a 170-member group of business, professional, and community leaders, will meet on campus this Friday. The visitors will participate in special sessions on admissions, finance, and leadership.

SGA starts alumni relations

The Executive Council, a newly formed arm of the SGA, will launch a Student/Alumni Relations program in the upcoming week. The program was the brainchild of Ken Krieg and other members of the SGA’s Executive Council, which is composed of senators who convene to "discuss ideas." Students will be given a list of five to ten alumni in their area to contact during the summer. The Council will be seeking students to volunteer in the next week or so, Krieg said. Asked why a program is needed, Krieg said that aside from fraternities, there is no real program for Student/Alumni relations. Davidson’s "best resources are its students," Krieg said. The two primary "rewards" of the new program will be that students can discuss Davidson life with alumni who have experienced the same thing, and students will be able to...Seek advice from former Davidson students. In addition to benefitting the students, the new program will also aid alumni. The Council’s bulletin noted, “it will give (them) the chance to relive times past and become involved in present developments.” Krieg mentioned that an increase in alumni giving will, hopefully, be a by-product of the program. Fundraising, however, is not the primary aim.

(Continued from page 1)

Next year, Lloyd, who has coached Davidson’s College Bowl to several national championships, will be replaced in the English Department by Cynthia Leevis from Harvard. Retzer already left Davidson to work with the Environmental Protection Agency. Koller said he plans to move back to the western states. He probably will not return to teaching. Beyond this, he said, he has made no plans.

Like Retzer and Koller, Ziegler has taught at Davidson for seven years. This summer she will be attending a seminar at Stanford on a National Endowment for the Humanities grant. As for the near future, Ziegler said she definitely wants to continue teaching. She has applied for at least twenty positions and is now awaiting replies.

The four professors who will be on leave next year reflect a great diversity of interests. Kincaid is running for the U.S. House of Representatives against former Davidson Biology Professor Jim Martin. Kincaid has been at Davidson for thirteen years and will take a two-year leave because “I will be in Congress.” According to Kincaid, the Economics Department has found a temporary replacement for him.

Yoder will spend his one-year leave, for which he received a Fulbright fellowship, in Gabon, Africa. He said his decision to go to Gabon was prompted by his and his wife’s desire for their children to experience life in an underdeveloped country. Also, Yoder has a deep interest in African culture and literature.

Jacobus is taking a year or two off to work with the Prudential Insurance Association as a Group Manager. He said that after nine years of teaching he wants to “try something different for a while.” Replacements for both Yoder and Jacobus in the French Department have been found, but Jacobus’ replacement has not been signed yet.

Unlike the other three professors who are taking their leave next year, Mark Davies will remain in the classroom, but as a student. Davies is leaving Davidson after six years of teaching to attend law school at the University of North Carolina. “One does not enter law school lightly,” Davies said, and he plans to complete the full three years of study. However, Davies will not make his final decision as to whether or not he will return to Davidson until next fall. A one-year replacement for Davies has been found.

Four other professors are also leaving next year. Garrett has been at Davidson for two years as a visiting professor. He was hired as a sabbatical replacement for Chemistry Professor Ralph Gable and was kept on for an additional year as “the eighth man in a seven-man department” to help revamp the junior year chemistry curriculum. Next year Garrett will move to Columbus, Ohio, to work with Battelle Memorial Institute on an EPA project concerning the disposal of hazardous waste materials. Garrett will not be replaced.

Smith will assume a position at St. Olaf’s College in Minnesota next year. She said she prefers St. Olaf’s because it has a nationally recognized mathematics department. Also, Smith said she wants a change from Davidson’s “lack of a community of young single people.”

Ultee was hired for one year and his contract was not renewed. He has received a grant for work this summer and will soon have a book published by Yale University. He will be teaching at the University of Alabama next year, having received a “terrific offer” from them. The administration at Alabama told him that he will be considered for tenure in three years. Ultee feels that Davidson needs “more research support” and “more commitment to younger professors.”

Young has been on leave this year with the EPA. Next year he will go to the University of North Carolina at Greensboro to take an administrative position.