THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C., January 25, 1980

Major sports budgets condemned
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Students responding to an SGA opinion poll questioned the size of the football and basketball programs, but supported the College sports program in general. The SGA Athletic Committee conducted the questionnaire because “...student opinion (hasn’t) been known by anyone,” Committee Chairman Jim Haynes said.

The Committee compiled the responses to 167 questionnaires Monday night. Two hundred randomly selected students were given questionnaires last week. The results of the questionnaire will be given to Trustees and members of the faculty. After more study, the Committee might “eventually” present a recommendation on athletic policy, Haynes said. However, Haynes added, “I don’t have a big delusion about students’ taking part in making athletic policy,” though he feels “student opinions should be taken into account.”

The Committee had formulated 25 questions to examine commonly heard concerns about athletic policy. For example, 65% of the students responding felt Davidson spends too much on football, while only 9% felt we (see SGA poll, page 11)

Focus
Northeastern license plates may become a familiar sight at Davidson if the Admissions Office is successful.
(Brad Kerr)

New admissions policy seeks northeastern students
By JIM REESE
Staff Writer

Admissions Director John Griffith has stepped up efforts to enroll students from the Northeast. Increased recruiting in the North reflects an expected nationwide decline in the number of high school graduates in the next fifteen years. The decline in the number of applicants has not been felt at Davidson yet. In fact, the number of early admissions applicants has increased 20% over last year, according to Griffith.

“We will inevitably feel the decline,” Griffith said, “but fortunately, the South, our largest supplier of students, will experience the decline least. However, we will be competing with the top schools in the country for the best students, so strategic planning is necessary.”

In fact, Griffith traveled to several New England states last fall to recruit students. “We are traveling in the North to show the quality of life at Davidson to prospective students,” he said. “Nothing works better with those students than personal contact.”

Griffith cited the major goals of the Admissions Department as remaining in contact with the areas and schools with the highest student yields, developing Davidson’s reputation nationally, and traveling in the North to publicize Davidson. Even though the Admissions Department has intensified its recruiting, Griffith stated that no increases in the staff or budget have been made. There have been, however, two programs developed to assist in recruiting.

First, the Alumni Admissions Program has not been activated yet, but is planned to increase alumni interest in

CCRL keeps poll results under cover
By GLENN KELLUM
Staff Writer

The Council on Campus and Religious Life will indefinitely withhold the results of Tuesday’s straw vote which was taken to determine the future of Richards and Bailey houses. One reason for the council’s secrecy is that not all the members have had a chance to review the results, according to Union Board President Jim Robertson. Moreover, the Council may continue to withhold the results, because the “straw vote was really just for the Council’s use and not for the campus,” Robertson said.

The Council will use the results purely for advisory purposes.recruitment. Another program, the Student Admissions Team (SAT), which consists of approximately 30 students, has been formed to communicate with applicants and encourage their enrollment, said Dean of Students Will Terry. By releasing the results, the Council would be "bound to those results, whereas the Council would have more freedom to act if the results are withheld," Terry added. Using the results of the straw vote, the Council will determine what types of houses will be best for the campus. After this is determined, the Council will ask interested groups of these types to submit their applications. The Council has not outlined any specific guidelines for applicants, Terry said. The Council may or may not decide to release the original straw vote results in the future, Robertson concluded.

Prospective professors go through the mill to get a job at Davidson
By ELIZABETH KISS and JOHN SIMAN
News Editors

Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann (Mike Kehs)

Eleven new professors will be appointed to the Davidson faculty for the 1980-81 academic year, a significant turnover for a 98-member faculty. The new appointments will be in eight departments: Classics, Economics, English, History, Mathematics, Political Science, Psychology, and Sociology.

The Selection Process

According to the Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, the President is responsible for appointing faculty members. However, in practice, individual departments conduct the applicant search and narrow down the number of candidates to about twelve. Then, said Vice-President for Academic Affairs T. C. Price Zimmermann, he and the department chairman discuss the candidates and choose three or four to invite to the campus. After meetings with the prospective professors, College President Samuel Spencer, Zimmermann, and the department chairman make the final decision.

Selection procedures vary among departments. First, an advertisement is placed in the employment bulletin of the professional association in the department’s field (for example, the American Psychological Association Monitor, the Modern Language Association Job Information Lists, etc.). Letters are sent to graduate schools. History Department Chairman Malcolm Lester said he contacts experts in the field of the offered position to ask for names of possible candidates. Once applications are in, members of the department evaluate them and choose the top dozen candidates. Some departments, such as history, rely solely on tenured professors’ evaluations, while others, like political science, circulate applications among all of their members. In addition, English Department Chairman Richard Cole said representatives from the English Department interview candidates at nationwide professional conferences. This year, for the two positions available, 26 interviews were made at Modern Language Association conferences in Atlanta and San Francisco.

After the top twelve candidates’ files are reviewed with Zimmermann, three or four are invited to the campus. Candidates for the English and Psychology departments give a formal lecture, while Economics Department applicants have a one-hour interview with every member of the department. Student participation in the selection process also varies. Some political science majors interview candidates, according to Chairman Harris Proctor. English Department presentations are open to students, and Cole said he interviewed several students afterward to get their reactions. Economics Department Chairman Charles Ratliff said he made a point to introduce students to candidates. Lester said he encouraged informal encounters with students "for the information of the person visiting the campus." The candidates are also interviewed by Spencer and Zimmermann, and the final decision is made. 

(see Faculty Selection, page 1)