(Continued from page 1) alleged that they were unfairly disciplined for circulating a petition among co-workers last January. The petition criticized procedures for getting paychecks and punching time clocks. Later last January they were put on probation, reprimanded twice, and given lesser jobs. However, their salaries and seniority were not affected. The College issued a statement explaining the actions were taken because the three employees "...interrupted the orderly flow of work, tended to undermine the authority of supervision, were offensive to fellow workers, and contributed to a state of tension and poor morale in the department.” In March Spencer appointed a grievance committee which removed one of the reprimands and reinstated Alexander to his old job as an electrician. Rolland filed a charge with the NLRB in June. After an investigation by an NLRB field examiner, the NLRB filed a complaint against the College in August, charging it with illegally discouraging "employees engaged in concerted activities with other employees for the purpose of collective bargaining and other mutual aid and protection.”

(Continued from page 9) for extra money or else pay expenses out of his own pocket. His absences during recruiting trips were later cited as one reason for his firing. Kremser was hired to coach both soccer in the fall and track in the spring. Although he maintains he was told to view track as secondary and to concentrate on soccer, his initially sporadic commitment to the track program was another reason given for his dismissal. Kremser insists that a good soccer coach must be committed to that sport twelve months a year to enable him to coach, recruit, and prepare. His superiors obviously disagree. The degree of Kremser’s incompatibility with the Davidson athletic program became apparent when his contract was not renewed. During various meetings with Cartmill and members of the Administration, Kremser requested and was given several reasons for his firing, including his absences during recruiting, concentration on soccer to the exclusion of track, possible personality conflicts, and the quitting of several senior soccer players this fall. Kremser claims he was able to satisfactorily rebut each of the alleged problems. Finally, he says, he was told the college had no obligation to justify its decision. Something is unsettling about this incident. Although some may claim the decision to fire Kremser was arbitrary, those who made it have observed enough alleged problems to feel that such an action was warranted. The tragedy is that these problems were not brought to Kremser’s attention earlier, or if they were pointed out, their severity was not made clear. It is doubtful that Kremser would have continued doing anything that he explicitly knew would result in his dismissal. Perhaps Kremser is at fault here for failing to keep his ear to the ground and detect these problems before they overwhelmed him. Perhaps other coaches will take note of this tendency and work to alleviate it. At the moment, however, Kremser is out of a job and Davidson has lost a dynamic and knowledgeable coach.

The College’s attorneys offered to settle out of court the week before the hearing, according to Rolland’s attorney, Louis Lesesne. The employees refused the College’s offer, however, because it would not reinstate McIntosh, a plumber, to his original job. The final settlement put McIntosh in a job similar to his original one. Rolland, formerly a mechanic, will continue working in the Union, where he has been since last January. “There’s no doubt in my mind that the College violated the National Labor Relations Act,” Rolland said. Both he and McIntosh said they wished a trial had taken place so the College’s violations could have been shown. However, the statement issued by Spencer’s office said, “The settlement incorporates the College’s position that it has not at any time violated the provisions of the National Labor Relations Act.” McIntosh said he was upset that such a “dippy thing” had taken so long to settle. “This could have been worked out at a lower level,” Rolland added. Both were concerned about the amount of money the College spent in legal fees. This was the first time the NLRB had filed a complaint against Davidson.

By JOHN TUCKER
Staff Correspondent

Is hunger a problem in the United States? According to Senator Ernest Hollings, in his book The Case Against Hunger, “millions of Americans are hungry, and early scientific indications are that the general nutrition in this country is worse than it was at the close of World War II.” Hollings reports results from the National Nutrition Survey, whose director, Dr. Arnold Schaefer, has stated that the nutrition problems among the poor in the United States “seem to be similar to those we have encountered in the developing countries.” The two most serious nutritional diseases are Kwashiorkor, caused by severe, long-term protein deficiency, and marasmus, which results primarily from prolonged lack of food calories. “Both,” Senator Hollings points out, “are rare exceptions except in famine conditions. But both were found by doctors of the nutrition survey, here in our great and bounteous land.” Early samplings from the survey (collected in Diet for a Small Planet by Frances Moore Lappe) showed that of families earning under $3,000 a year, more than 16% had serious protein deficiencies—some well below the levels normally associated with malnutrition in underdeveloped countries. Bone underdevelopment and swollen bellies due to protein or calorie malnutrition were observed in 4-5%. Though there have been other surveys on hunger, none have been comprehensive and none can adequately identify high-risk groups. This year’s Bread for the World symposium will...Focus on an Offering of Letters to push for a comprehensive study focusing on the poor. It is not intended to be "just another survey"; its stated purpose is to identify nutrition problems in order to alleviate them. Bread for the World will push follow-up legislation which will use the results of the survey to bring about remedial help and to focus attention on the causes of hunger. They see the survey as an essential part of a national food and nutrition policy.

(Continued from page 5)

The government has annually appropriated increasing amounts of money towards research in Solar Energy as well as other alternatives to petroleum. But as of now, there is no way that the United States can go without the oil we import from the Middle East (without making drastic sacrifices), nor should we have to. It would be taking a giant step backward to withdraw from the world trade market simply to prove we can do without it.

Seeing as how the Middle East is of utmost importance to the United States in many ways, we can ill-afford to allow it to fall into the hands of a nation whose basic constitutional philosophies differ so much from our own. Mr. Dwight asks the question:

(Continued from page 1)

According to junior Pat Sheridan, around 8:45 "some friends and I decided to build a little bonfire to keep warm. Students started bringing wood, legal wood, and when everybody started leaving the library, they all came over to the fire."

"No one was drunk or had really been drinking when we started the fire," Sheridan said. "It was like just a family gathering. With all the lights out, where else was there for everybody to go?"

According to Davidson Fire Chief Robert Gurley, a concerned student called the fire department about the fire. Since the firemen were answering an emergency call and did not know the exact nature of the fire, they had no choice but to come put it out. The fire truck arrived around 10:15 p.m.

"The fire company coming was a catalyst," Sheridan said. "That's when people started getting mad and upset."

"The fire was too close to the dormitory," Gurley said. "They threw beer and water on us. They stepped all over our hoses, and they booed at us when we put the fire out."

Security Officer John Griffin said, "I told them (the firemen) not to come, told them I had everything under control." The firemen left, and the two-to-three hundred students present started the fire again. The fire department received another call from a student and returned around 11:15 p.m. Griffin said he told them once again not to come, that it "was not a riot or anything like that."

Upon returning to the fire, the firefighters faced a more hostile crowd. Someone threw a liquor bottle that smashed into the running board of the fire truck. Rather than ask the crowd to clear away from the fire, the firemen opened up with their hoses. They succeeded in putting out the fire, but many of the people encircling the fire got wet, and the crowd grew more angry. According to one student present, "I grabbed the fireman with the hose and tried to get him to wait until everybody got away from the fire." Instead, the fireman sprayed him in the head, knocking him to the ground and breaking his glasses.

Gurley said, the action "was in self-defense. We don't want anything bad between us and the students, especially in case of another fire. We need their help and are trying to save lives, not hurt anyone. I just wanted to clear the air right now because we need their help."

SGA President John Jackson is currently composing a letter of apology to the fire department from the student body. The entire incident posed two problems for the administration: what to do about school property that was destroyed, and how to deal with the reaction from the local media. As for the property damage, which Bolding described as "minimal," Bolding said that any property found missing or destroyed during the room checks at the end of the year will have to be replaced by the dormitory occupants. In response to the media issue, Ross said that there is an attitude that "college students...