- pynoy ute

Corporate Programs in the Development Office. Daisley

"evap a tate tae

peo! Sn

nate a campaign for corporate contributions.” In simple terms, he added, he aims at securing “big bucks from big companies
and little bucks from little companies” for Davidson’s Living Endowment fund.

Although inflation has affected fundraising, Daisley does not think the Living Endowment corporate fund is in trouble.

Last year, he pointed out, despite the vacancy in the position of Director, $105,000 of the $631,000 raised for Living
Endowment came from corporations.

The $35 million dollar goal of the 1987 Program, Davidson's 11-year fundraising effort, is outdated, Daisley said. “We realize we
may have to revise upwards. We are by no means limiting ourselves to a certain amount. We want as much
as we can raise for the school.” According to projections, 10% of the $35 million should come from corporations. Last
year corporate giving amounted to $330,000. Daisley said that since he has just assumed his position he is “not sure”
whether corporate gifts have been up to 10%.

“Inflation and skyrocketing building costs” have increased Davidson's need for corporate support, Daisley said, but “corporations are beginning to understand
their obligation to private education.” He thinks industrial growth in the South should encourage corporate giving to Davidson. “As the
Sunbelt grows, Davidson should be known as the finest small liberal arts college in the South and a good source
of future business leadership.”

Daisley has been named Director of Corporate Programs in the Development Office. Prior to coming to Davidson, he was the
public relations director for Austin Kelley Advertising in Atlanta. During the 1976 Carter presidential campaign, Daisley served as Carter’s area
coordinator in South Carolina. He was the youngest person on Carter’s national staff.

(Stephen cies)

Camerra and Heath capture prestigious international fellowships

By WALTER LEE
Staff Correspondent

Seniors Pam Camerra and Eugene Heath have received prestigious graduate scholarships through the Institute of International Education (IIE).

These awards are rarely given to graduating seniors and are the first given to Davidson students since 1962.

Camerra, a political science major, was awarded a stipend from the IIE to study at the University of Cologne. She
will be working there from October through July 1981 and plans to focus on women and public policy.

Camerra plans to take public policy, economics, and sociology courses. She also hopes to write several articles toward a master's
degree in public policy.

Heath, a philosophy major studying in France this term, will be working at the University of Madrid. He will do
independent study on Spanish anarchist philosophy, including the theory of Spanish labor unions and contemporary anarchist literature and philosophy. His
work will be leading to a paper on anarchism after the completion of which he plans graduate work in philosophy.

Alumni giving well below potential - Willingham

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

“Are we living up to Davidson’s potential? I don’t think we are, given the type of alumni we have, the
type of school we have, the type of loyalty we have,” Living Endowment Director Lee Willingham said. Willingham visited several
northern schools and observed that they stress having large-scale class reunions every fifth year, more than Davidson does.

“This is an intangible thing,” Willingham said, but it carries over into alumni giving. Thus, these schools place great emphasis
on selecting class agents, alumni who encourage giving to the annual fund from within their classes. Willingham intends to meet
with two groups of senior class leaders to choose a class chairman. Like the other schools, “we could build a
tradition,” he said.

Despite the Living Endowment’s comparatively poor performance, Willingham believes there is potential for improvement.

News At A Glance

Stuart Scholars

Four high school seniors were chosen as winners of the Stuart Scholarship, a four-year merit scholarship for study at Davidson.

Brian Brost from Huntsville, Alabama; Sarah Dagenhart from Charlotte, North Carolina; Hunter Monroe from Chapel Hill, North Carolina; and Mary
Tabb from Augusta, Georgia were the winners. First alternate was Elizabeth Ward from Atlanta, Georgia, and second alternate, John Silver
from Charlotte, North Carolina.

Convocation Speaker

Vernon Jordan, President of the National Urban League, will speak at Convocation April 25.

Phi Beta Kappa Selections

The following seniors were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, a nationwide honorary open to students in the top
12.5% of their graduating class:

Christine Allen, James Ashmore, George Brown, Pam Camerra, Steve Cowart, Jim Crane, Susan Davidson, Gwen Dotts, Lynne Elliott, Sam Elliott,
Roger Farabee, Mike Garfinkel, Steve Goertz, Jim Haynes, John Highsmith, Roger Hodge, Robert Hull, Judith Inge, Carole Loftin.

Also, Gregg Londrey, Tom Mahoney, Laura Michael, Andy Miller, Jim Pearson, John Riser, David Sappenfield, Jane Saunders, Beverly Smith, Thomas
Spangler, Sara Staneburner, James Stuckey, Beth Thacker, Elizabeth Thomas, Ann Tutwiler, Andy Williams, Steve Yood.

Election Results

The winners of this week’s student elections for the 1980-81 school year were:

Senior Class Senate: Ron Davis, President; Kevin Pressley; L.D. Simmons.

Junior Class Senate: Eric Crum, President; Thomas Bates; Andy Brown.

Sophomore Class Senate: Chip Hurley, President; Sherburne Laughlin; Tim Johnston.

Senior Honor Council: John Peebles, Pete Neefus, Kathy Adkins.

Junior Honor Council: Rick Gaines, Patti Long, Steve Carter, Debbie Metzgar. (Four students were elected because present Honor Council member
Stokes Peebles will be studying abroad next year.)

Sophomore Honor Council: Carol Roche, True Davis, James Funsten.

Life on Campus and Religious Life: Anne Stanback, Ed Copeland.

Student Conduct Council: Denise Ferguson, Ron Davis.

Review Board: David Hoskins, Barb Ashley.

Student Solicitors: Blaine Sanders, Jeffrey Ray.

Defense Advisor: Edward Copeland.

House Gallery

CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES

New group of recycled frames available. For more information, call 892-6107.
