‘and aie at Huntersville prison

By KENT DYER, Staff Writer

Several years ago, a group of Davidson students, under the auspices of junior Minor Sinclair and the Davidson Y.M.C.A., began
visiting the Huntersville Prison. At that time, they played basketball inside the compound, and basketball was the name of the
game. Since then, there have been a lot of changes. Junior Rend Malone has taken charge of the program, visitation
privileges have been extended to women, and the program has expanded to include an emphasis on counseling and tutoring the
prisoners. Even the basketball program is on the upswing, although Malone concedes that Davidson still takes a pretty bad beating
on the Huntersville court.

The program is primarily made up of students in the “Y” Outreach Committee who have agreed to spend a couple
of hours every week working in Huntersville. Minister to Students Rush Otey is also active as a faculty advisor, and
Mathematics professor Kay Smith has recently become involved as a tutor.

Sinclair explains that there are four separate areas of service with which students may become involved. The first is visitation.
This is a time when students get a chance to talk with the prisoners, play backgammon, or get run to
death on the court. The second aspect of the program, one that is just getting started, is tutoring. Malone explained
that although many of the prisoners are quite intelligent, few have progressed past the equivalent of a ninth-grade education. For
those who are interested, Malone and Sinclair have tried to supply books and private instruction. The social sciences, sociology, and
psychology have turned out to be the most popular areas of interest. However, Dr. Smith is working with several inmates
interested in mathematics. Many of the requests are unusual or bizarre. Sinclair recalled one man who had a burning desire
to study pathology. Cadavers were out of the question (although it might have been possible to supply him with decapitated
rats from Dr. Lammers’s physiology lab), but Sinclair did manage to round up several textbooks.

The third area, one that Malone has spearheaded himself, is a Christian fellowship group at the prison. Each Saturday, Malone
makes himself available to prisoners who are struggling with their faith or who just want someone to talk with individually.

The last area involves helping prisoners who are coming up for parole make the transition back into a job. One
of the preconditions for parole at Huntersville is that the inmate secure employment. This is almost impossible unless he has
some friends to work with on the outside. Sinclair and Malone spend much of their time trying to meet this
particular need by taking prisoners out on afternoon passes. So far, they have been able to relocate two men in
jobs with former employers. Opportunities in this area of work are limited, however, since one must have first completed at
least twenty-five hours of time on the yard before being eligible for temporary custody of the prisoners.

Sinclair describes the purpose of the prison program as being twofold. The first goal involves the rehabilitation of the prisoner
by helping him learn useful skills and, more importantly, by building up his self-confidence—a hard task fora man staring at
bars all day. This lethargy, an unwillingness to help oneself or be helped by others, is the biggest problem at
Huntersville, according to Malone. "Most of the prisoners are serving sentences for misdemeanors related to robbery. However, they all come
from poor backgrounds where just making ends meet is a struggle. Now they have lost their jobs, their rights, and
are crowded together (all 160 of them) into two large rooms with nothing to do but watch television all day.
It’s no wonder they have no desire to help themselves," Malone admits. However, developing friendships at the prison is no
easy matter. On dreary days it is almost impossible to get anyone outside for basketball. "It’s times like these that
I have to go up on the dormitory block and stir the guys out of bed." Malone mentioned that the
two most important characteristics a person needs are boldness and consistency. "The prisoners naturally have a short memory, and unless
you make a point to be there each week they will forget about you and not show up when you
arrive. Only by consistently being available can you prove your confidence in them and help the prisoners acquire confidence in
themselves."

The second purpose of the program involves "getting in touch" with those from a different background who are less fortunate
than ourselves. Sinclair argues that it is important to see the uncomfortable conditions of prison life so that we can
be knowledgeable enough to help fight for reform. According to Sinclair, there is a severe lack of public interest in
rehabilitation in the country today. There are no active prisoners’ lobbying groups in Washington, and the public’s only concern seems
to be getting the criminal off the street.

The most frequent question asked by students is "What can I talk about?" Both Malone and Sinclair agree that finding
the right things (or just anything) to say is sometimes a struggle on one’s first trips to the prison. But
they added that once you are able to accept the prisoners as people with interests similar to yours, the biggest
hurdle is over. From there on in, mutual learning and understanding can begin.

The Y.M.C.A. Prison Program is something that, to be effective, involves a time commitment. It takes time to dissolve the
initial barriers that block communication. But the personal rewards are many and there are several areas of service within the
program in which it is possible to become involved. The program has become popular on campus, involving over fifty people
last fall. If you think you might be interested in working with visitation or tutoring, contact Rand Malone or Minor
Sinclair.

Mabel & Henrietta (Julie Gibert & Teresa Strawser) discuss their suppressed desires. (Stephen Enniss) Copeland House Gallery CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES
Through Feb. 9 Mid-Winter SALE Up to 30% Off 384 North Main Street / Post Office Box 30 MOORESVILLE, NORTH
CAROLINA 28115

CONSTRUCTION COMPANY “Good Builders Since 1925” M.A. Wicker President & Treasurer Ben L. Millsaps Exec. Vice President & Secretary
