6—The Davidsonian—September 26, 1980

Features

De Palma executes elegant rehash of erotic suspense

Giant California hot tubs have been built on the Catawba River to enhance Lake Norman's recreation facilities. (Trey Thies)

By ROBERT BOWIE
Staff Writer

Sex! Sex! Sex! Brian De Palma’s Dressed To Kill makes you live it, breathe it, and feel it for two lusty hours. His camera creates a carnal universe as alternatively explicit and mysterious, attractive and terrifying as desire itself.

Ever since Freud, nightmare and libido have become permanently fused in the popular imagination. Gothic novels, those ghoulish masterpieces of the Victorian vision, now speak to us in their secret language of repressed urges. Nabokov spoofed our modern X-rated views of nineteenth-century writers in Lolita and some would say the close of Hitchcock’s Psycho is equally intended to ridicule the psychoanalytic attempt to rationalize madness. Dressed To Kill, a studied descendant...

A Film Review

Students show interest in Chambers Gallery art sale

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Assistant Features Editor

Does student interest in printed art go anywhere beyond the comic strip? If last Thursday’s American/European Original Graphic Arts Exhibition and Sale was any indication, the answer is an encouraging “yes!”

Attendance at the Chambers Gallery was steady throughout the day, and as many as twenty-five prints were sold. I happened upon the Gallery exhibit quite by chance, but soon noticed that despite almost no publicity, many other students had found it also. Immediately absorbed, I began rummaging through prints, engravings, and etchings that included fifteenth-century Bible pages, contemporary American art, and lushly colored European posters. The pieces were expensive, but tempting.

“There was considerable interest on the part of the students,” according to Warren Joyce, the suave sales representative of Marson Galleries in Boston. He spent much of the day advising and explaining the various techniques of the graphic arts to curious potential buyers. He commented that the students were “knowledgeable” and the sale “well above average” compared to other schools he has visited throughout the Southeast.

I noticed a friend of mine at another table, laboriously searching for just the right Calder print to give to his brother for a birthday present. Like him, Joyce explained, most students were primarily concerned with subject matter and appeal, although investment was certainly a consideration.

The Gallery sale was a true test of the Davidson student’s degree of art appreciation. Why? Money. Art and culture pervade every aspect of the extracurricular scene at Davidson, but rarely is any of it beyond the reach of a few dollars. Fine films show for next to nothing in Love; fine performers are often free at Hodson; and anyone who has ever bought a ticket for a Broadway show knows that $3 for a season pass to the Artists Series is a downright steal. Even graphic arts, if one is not too particular, can be rented yearly for a minimal sum.

Thus, when Joyce brought his collection to Davidson last week, the significant phenomenon was not just the interest generated, but the “above average” sale that resulted. Students buying was not merely impulsive, however, according to junior art student Whit Wampler, who observed that “the notable interest was based not only on appeal, but on an appreciation of the quality of the art...backed by hard cash.” Wampler bought a print of Noah's Ark; besides it being a good investment, she noted, “I liked the hell out of it.”

It’s not just that Davidson students have money—and they do—but it’s what they spend it on. One would generally conclude that almost the only things for which students are willing to fork over money are stereo systems, cars, Jimmy Buffet albums, topsiders, designer jeans, and ubiquitous arrays of pink-and-green gator wear. But money talks, and many people seemed to notice last week when it said that Davidson students have a viable interest in collectible fine art. Wampler said the show’s success “indicates that there is more fine arts awareness on campus than a lot of people think.”

My friend eventually decided on a print and I, realizing that two hours of indecision had flown by, reached for my Master Charge to purchase the objects of my desire, some illustrated pages out of an eighteenth-century English Naturalist’s Handbook: a green dog, two Honey Buzzards, and a Long-Nosed Tapir.of these works, parodies the parodies by pushing the sexual element of the horror story even more to the fore. The highly contrived explanation of the film’s transvestite killer draws out obvious laughs, whereas the irony of Psycho and Lolita always left a slight fear that the Freudian gobbledygook was supposed to be taken seriously. Dressed To Kill really constitutes a pop version of Psycho; the new film being more pleasant and less subtle than its predecessor. DePalma’s heroine (played by Angie Dickinson) is a housewife who despairs because her husband lacks energy in bed. (The plot summary almost makes me want to dust off an old cigar and stretch out on a couch.) She visits her local shrink (Michael Caine) and attempts to seduce this respected member of the medical profession. He shakes his head and pleads professional ethics. Unfulfilled, Dickinson rushes off to the local museum where she engages in a danse macabre with a mysterious and sinister sightseer. This beautiful lyric scene introduces the film’s recurrent motif of the pursuer becoming the pursued. Dickinson drops her glove in an effort to pick up this stranger and the camera delightfully follows the pair through a gallery of strangely sexy paintings. DePalma hasn’t been this romantic since Obsession, which also exploited beautiful art and women. (See Bloody Death, page 11)

WAVES
By TODD SWOFFORD
Staff Writer

UPRISING
Bob Marley and the Wailers (Island)

Reggae is probably the best music to be widely overlooked in the U.S. today. Regarded as the original political music, Reggae is a vital music of the spirit and Bob Marley is its most successful and articulate spokesman. Uprising emerges as a positive bubbling-over of human music about the political and religious struggles of Jamaica and the world. And what’s important here is not the struggle so much as it is the singing about the struggle. In the most moving song on the album, “Redemption Song,” Marley says, “All I ever had is songs of freedom.”/“Won’t you help to sing these songs of freedom?” Listeners can at least share the freedom of movement that comes so naturally with this music and relate to its purely human element, regardless of our social backgrounds. At a time when much of contemporary music is concerned with exposing the rotting core of modern society (and all too often with an attitude of sophisticated indifference) it’s nice to be carried off to a simpler realm by the breezy force of Marley’s music. For the sake of real music and everything good inside, buy this record.

THERE AND BACK
Jeff Beck (Epic)

This album is the latest in pseudo-jazz/fusion by a once-true-guitarist turned pro, Jeff Beck. The disc’s production is so slick it's almost offensive (like a long black Cadillac), and the music is harmless enough to play at PAX: There and Back doesn't go much of anywhere and where it does go is in the wrong direction.

FREEDOM OF CHOICE
Devo (Warner Brothers)

If all you have heard by Devo was from their first two albums, then you don’t know the whole truth about these guys. The doctors of devolution are really the happy new dance band of our Brave New World. I saw these guys play in Florida last month and they are fun. Freedom of Choice bounces with that spirit of fun, but the music leaves you with no choice. You will feel this intensely danceable, electronic, head rock and you will move, if you can. You will stand to songs entitled “Girl U Want,” “Whip It,” “Gates of Steel” and “That’s Pep!” And if you’re really uninhibited, maybe you'll sport a chess pawn hat and dance away to the Spudboy’s beat, soma in hand.

ENTERTAINMENT!
Gang of Four

I think I should tell you from the start that this band’s music is subversive. Their lyrics are political, the album cover is bright red—think a moment; where did the last “Gang of anything” influence the world? The Gang of Four is from Britain and their insipid fight is waged against the norms and shams of western society. Their music is an exercise in electric nihilism. While the band’s energy is vital and well-harnessed, the record’s production has the studio sound of the new “Radical chic.” No harm done, however. The music is original and the lyrics are much more arrogant than those of the average beach song. Entertainment! is sheer Avantarchy.