February 8, 1960—The Davidsonian—3

Former Philosophy Prof and bibliophile leaves his rubber-stamped mark in library

By NANCY McNAIR
Staff Writer

"Although at times too intense for introductory philosophy students, Alan Brinkley provoked, challenged, and encouraged students to think creatively and intelligently," said MacCormac.

As someone who once wanted to read every book in the Maud M. Burrus Library in Decatur, Georgia, I had to know. Just who is this Alan B. Brinkley? And why does his name appear stamped on seemingly every card in the Davidson Library, from Gertrude Stein to Karl Barth's Doctrine of Holy Scripture?

Brinkley expressed a measure of concern that others did not use the library more extensively. "On one point I am afraid that I made myself rather abrasive," he said. "I was amazed at how many key works had not been checked out."

Brinkley retired from teaching in 1972, before co-education came to Davidson, though he had advocated it ardently. He now lives near Chapel Hill, but surely some sophomoric prankster just decided to have his name stamped rather impermanently in books instead of engraved on a carrel’s dedication plate. But Alan B. Brinkley was not a Davidson student at all; rather he taught here in the philosophy department between 1964 and 1972.

In a recent telephone interview from his home near Chapel Hill, Brinkley discussed his voracious appetite for books: "Leland Park once told me that I accounted for two and a half percent of the library’s annual circulation," he noted. "I have always been a ravenous reader."

But Brinkley denies having had the highly visible rubber stamp especially made for checking out books. "I’m a magpie...at nine years I received a printing set with rotary press and sticks. Somehow most of the set was given away."

"I was just provoked at how long it took to sign out so many books, so I remembered the remaining segment with my name on it and carried it around in my pocket to check out books."

The little red wagon rumor, however, proves more substantive. "I did use a wagon when I had a particularly large amount to carry home," stated Brinkley, "for example, when I read the Warren Commission report on President Kennedy’s assassination."

Brinkley’s former colleague in the philosophy department, Earl MacCormac, quickly points out that Brinkley’s omnivorous reading stems not from some sort of self-dare, but out of genuine interest. "Occasionally I would come across a book or article which he had not read, and sheer panic would come into his eyes," said MacCormac. "Not that he had not read it, just that he wanted to read it."

"Alan Brinkley has read more now than I will read in my lifetime," added MacCormac, himself an avid reader.

Not only does Brinkley read books; he collects them as well, 15,000 of them at interview time. And if that is not enough, he writes books, or at least has "several novel projects" at hand. Quoting Andre Gide on having read Nietzsche as a middle-aged man, he remarked on one of the drawbacks of extensive reading: "Having read at least a certain critical mass, I am so much aware of all of the things that have already been done."

MacCormac indicated that Davidson lost more than just242% of its library circulation when Alan Brinkley left. “Davidson is immeasurably worse off without Alan on the faculty.” Remember that someone special—Valentine's Day is just around the corner. Friendly and courteous service and a convenient location at Sadler's Square, Davidson. Interesting parallels and drama—his mark remains in hundreds of library books, a small number of his books. Loy Thornton, David Barber, and Claire Abernathy discuss current events in Book of Murder, directed by Karen Weir. (Trey Thies)

4 workshops close out active season
By AIDA DOSS
Features Editor

The great god of drama has certainly raised his creative head at Davidson this winter. Four drama workshops, produced entirely by students, have already been staged, as well as Under Milk Wood, the major winter production. Two more pairs of one-act plays will be presented before spring break.

The first set is a pair of murder mysteries—Ron Cowen’s Book of Murder and Lucille Fletcher’s Sorry, Wrong Number. Cowen’s play, directed by Karen Weir, is a showcase for actresses. The plot revolves around three ex-wives and the current fourth wife of a rich old writer. The staging uses flashbacks, with lighting changes for emphasis. The cast features Mark Murray as the writer; Sheri Gravett, Claire Abernathy, Loy Thornton, and Mary Carpenter as the four wives; and David Barber as the detective. Weir commented that the wives’ names (Anne, Catherine, Jane, and Mary) and the writer's name, Henry, allude to the historical Henry VIII and some ironic parallels.

“Sorry, Wrong Number” may be more familiar to suspense fans. Set in the late 1930s, the play focuses on one bedridden woman, portrayed by Anna DeArmond, who overhears a murder plot on her telephone. The consequences which follow give plenty of opportunities for fine acting and staging. The play is directed by Janet Ward Black.

During the ninth week of the term, the final two workshops will be presented. Lithuania, directed by Eugene Heath, was penned by Rupert Brooke, one of the Georgian poets of the First World War, and is his only play. The plot is supposedly based on a true story which Brooke either read in a newspaper or heard in a cafe. In the play, one rather poor family, consisting of an insensitive daughter, a demoralized father, and a mother trying to hold them all together, is visited by a rich stranger. The family is naturally envious and plots to kill the man. The consequences of their actions show that there is evil in everyone. Walter plays the father, Tim Bethea the daughter, and Roger Farrabee the stranger. Rounding out the cast are Eric Sonner, Ed Gaynor, Steve Sechrist, and Mark Halton.

In contrast to Lithuania’s somewhat moralistic tone, John Bewen’s The Waiting Room is a contemporary suspense drama. Ted Jones, director of the play, described it as “a very dramatic piece” which is not a mystery but is “full of surprises.” The basic premise concerns a man and a woman in a waiting room, and the changing relationship between them. The man is played by Tom Biggs, the woman by Laura Singleton, and Mark McCormick and Sylvia Gordon play bit parts. Jones commented that the play is “a real challenge for actors and audience alike.”

Book of Murder and Sorry, Wrong Number will be offered at 7 p.m. Thursday and Friday nights, February 8 and 9. Admission is $1 for the two plays. Lithuania and The Waiting Room will be presented on Wednesday evenings, February 28 and 29. Curtain time is 7 p.m.