Album Review: The Clash Attacks the Bloody World
By NEIL CHURCHILL, Staff Correspondent

The Clash—London Calling

Change has always been important in rock music, and anyone expecting the same chemistry on the new Clash album as existed on the first two power platters will be surprised. William Carlos Williams said it best: “To stop the flames that destroy the old nest prevents the rebirth of the bird itself. All things rot and stink, nothing more than an old nest, if not recreated, this is the essence of what art is expected to do and cannot live without doing.”

The Clash have found a new formula on "London Calling." What is it? “Hey Joe, you goin’ down to the marketplace to find your soul?” “T and I, man.” “You poured your beer in me hat, man!” What is this ska stuff anyway? In the sixties, the Skinhead gangs in England picked up on some of the more plastic Jamaican reggae, remember “The Israelites?” As Bob Marley has grown in popularity, his music has deteriorated into a non-gutsy pop-reggae. What Marley seems to be losing, the Clash have most certainly discovered: Joe Strummer is possibly the gutsiest, most raucous singer in music today and by God, does he mean it...

The first cut on the album is the title track in which Strummer makes a plea to the youth of the world to stop living in the past (“All that phoney Beatlemania has bitten the dust”). The song warns of the final Apocalypse that must be recognized if anything is to be done. The irony of the situation is cleverly put across in the final line of the chorus: “...A nuclear error, but I have no fear London is drowning—And I live by the river.”

Although the Strummer stance is heroic, Joe himself has no time for heroes as the song “Death or Glory” seems to prove. Possibly the most powerful song on the album, Strummer and Jones attack those rock ‘n roll heroes who sing for the people with all their hearts and then laugh all the way to the bank. No way. Rock ’n roll is a serious business with a serious point to make. The Clash are certainly a very serious band and should not be dismissed too lightly. There’s trouble ahead!

“Rudie Can’t Fail” is equally successful and reveals the band’s excellent sense of humor. “Jimmy Jazz,” which sounds as if it was recorded in a gin-soaked bar, reveals Strummer’s newfound clarity and range. Sounding at times like an English Tom Waits, he brilliantly slurs and spits his way through this jazzy number. The drugs that take him nowhere, pointing the finger at the man who is always taking the money.

Another superbly perceptive song is “Right Profile,” which describes the demise of Monty Clift, a man who was never left alone for one moment, a man who took pills to soothe the pain of public attention. But the public gaze never left him, even when he lay dead in his car: “Everybody say ‘What’s he like?’ Everybody say ‘Is he alright?’ Everybody say ‘He sure looks funny.’ That's Monty Clift, Honey!”

The modern youth, left to shop unhappily in a world of disco albums and special offers. They’ll even pretend to sell you ‘Personality.’ But it’s all to persuade you to work all day for nothing: “Working for the Clampdown.” Perhaps the most bitter song on the album, “Clampdown” describes the way people can be twisted by propaganda into believing anything they’re told. The song is brutal, the message is direct and bullets into the head: “And I’ve given away no secrets. Who’s barmy now?”

“The Card Cheat” is possibly my favorite track on this double album. Look lads, what’s the point of...All this cheating. We'll all end up in the same place anyway. Death, death, death—for the sake of King and Country. Remember "Tommy Gun." "Whatever he wants, he’s gonna get it." "But," says Joe, "Don’t let those toughies get you down—stand up to the bastards!" "I’ve been beat up. I’ve been thrown out but I’m not down. I’m not down." Four horsemen gonna come and deliver you boy! Better be ready! Let’s escape from this Babylon! Don’t be fooled now, the fascists are still around! Watch your step boy!" Spanish Bombs... The Clash have entered the '80s with an album of great strength and power. This album seems so relevant in a world fast collapsing with economic greed and procrastinating politicians. I hope people will listen to Strummer and Co. who seem dedicated to something better, and maybe, who knows? "Music may still save the world."

Students live
By JEFF STIDHAM
Staff Writer

Davidson does not die in the summer. The townspeople remain, and last year approximately forty students spent their summer break in or near the community. Some of these students worked, some attended classes at UNCC, some were involved with July Experience, others worked on service projects and still others remained to finish accumulated incompletes.

Teri Butler lived in Davidson, but spent most of her time at UNCC taking chemistry courses. She sublet an apartment and said "housing is relatively easy to get—it’s just a question of how cheap." Butler enjoyed meeting the townspeople. "One of the unique things was that if you ran into anyone in the post office, you really talked rather than just saying hello." She was also surprised at the number of graduates and students who passed through Davidson during the summer. "All roads seemed to lead to Davidson. If anyone passing through knew you were here, you could count on meeting at the Peregrine House or at least on having someone sleep on your couch."

David Miller stayed in Davidson as a counselor for the July Experience. During the program, he had little opportunity to see his friends. Before and after the program, however, he was able to get to know townspeople not affiliated with the college. "Most faculty are gone or busy with their families," he explained. Miller noticed that both the gym and lake campus were in constant use, and that on Thursday nights, "the Peregrine House was jammed. Everybody was there." He found his Davidson summers especially fun because he had time to relax and to just sit around and talk. "It’s one of those times when kids really get to know each other."

Aida Doss was a house-sitter last summer. "I paid $45 rent for two months and had the run of the whole house." She observed that several students did this because "lots of professors do research and travel." She too enjoyed getting to know the townspeople. "One of the unique things was that if you ran into anyone in the post office, you really talked rather than just saying hello." She was also surprised at the number of graduates and students who passed through Davidson during the summer. "All roads seemed to lead to Davidson. If anyone passing through knew you were here, you could count on meeting at the Peregrine House or at least on having someone sleep on your couch."

Sallie Summey and Laura Brown worked as waitresses at Ham and Eggs while taking classes at UNCC. Summey said hers was "a quiet summer. You had to look harder to find things to do. But, it’s fun," she added, "because you get a whole different perspective on the town. It was strange seeing all of the students come back in the fall." Brown agrees that Davidson was quiet, but "we had the lake campus and gym." She added that one of the drawbacks was that, "Everyone was working irregular hours, so it was difficult to get together."

The Davidson community was able to integrate students in several activities. The Davidson community players put on two theatrical performances and invited students to work backstage. Town Day, July 4, was a big day for everyone in the community. Butler thought the 4th of July "the best day of the whole summer—real small-town U.S.A.!" Activities included a parade and field day.