THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 2
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
September 26, 1980

Trustees to discuss athletics, buildings
By CATHEY BOST
Staff Correspondent

Members of the Davidson Board of Trustees will be on campus October 2 and 3 for one of their annual
meetings. The Trustees will meet with students at the Patterson Court houses Friday, October 3. Student-Trustee discussions will follow luncheons
for the Trustees and their wives at each of the Patterson Court Houses. The discussions will last approximately from 2
p.m. to 3 p.m., according to Assistant to the President Ginger Taylor.

The Board will elect a successor to Chairman of the Board Warner Hall. This will be Hall’s last meeting as
chairman. The major topics the Trustees will consider during their stay, Taylor said, include the appointment of a successor to
Minister to Students Rush Otey, the report of the athletic evaluation committee and College athletic policy in general, and the
future of the Commons and the two dormitories under construction. The Trustees will meet with new Athletic Director Eugene Bingham.
Also, the faculty Educational Policy Committee will meet with the Trustees to discuss possible curriculum changes and arrange a schedule
for future tenure decisions, Taylor said. Any Trustee decision on the curriculum or tenure policy is subject to faculty approval.
Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman was unavailable for comment on the details of this meeting.

(See Trustees, page 3)

Julius Melton

Development staff undermanned
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Davidson’s Development Department begins this fall with five full-time professional staff members instead of the seven it had last year.
The Department manages the fundraising activities of the College. College President Samuel Spencer emphasized its importance in the College’s operation.
“Money is the question all over the country,” Spencer said. “My principal emphasis will be on development from here on.”

The staff shortage results from the departure last spring of Vice President for Development Duane Dittman, Development Officer Alan Lee,
and Secretary of the Parents’ Council and Board of Visitors Matthew Covington. The search for a new Vice President is
“still in progress,” Spencer said. Originally, the plan was to choose Dittman’s successor first so that the new Vice President
could assist in selecting a development officer. “If (the search) goes on much longer,” Spencer said, “we may choose a
development officer first.” Spencer said he has not interviewed any Vice Presidential applicants yet and has no specific target date
for final selection.

Town nuclear evacuation plan in works
By DONALD CALDWELL
Staff Writer

Town officials are now completing a plan to evacuate Davidson in case of a nuclear accident. The plan will be
tested sometime during the month of December in a community evacuation drill. The drill, to be conducted with Huntersville and
Cornelius, is required by federal law for the licensing of Duke Power’s McGuire Nuclear Plant, which is located six miles
north of Davidson.

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac emphasized that the drill will involve primarily the town’s police, fire, and civil defense personnel. MacCormac,
however, is unsure about student involvement. “No decision has been made as yet as to the number of students, if
any, who might be asked to participate,” she said. The drill will extend over a two-day period, though MacCormac anticipates
no major disruptions of municipal services during that time. She also said any student participation would be voluntary.

“The Nuclear Regulatory Commission now requires each state to draft an evacuation plan coordinating more detailed plans at county and
local levels of government,” MacCormac said. “While the North Carolina draft has been completed, the Mecklenburg County and Davidson municipal
plans are still being written.”

(See McGuire, page 11)

(Trey Thies)Delay in selection is not unusual, Spencer said. "That kind of hiatus takes place in colleges all the time."
In the interim, Director of Special Resources Julius Melton has unofficially assumed the duties of the Vice President. The staff
shortage "does have some effect" on the department’s efficiency, Spencer said. "You don’t notice it (the shortage) as much during
the summer," Melton said, "but it really starts coming home to you in the fall." Especially difficult, according to Melton,
is the Living Endowment campaign, a drive to raise funds from alumni, which lasts from September through December. In such
times of concentrated effort, he said, "you really begin to experience the frustration."

Wearing two hats does have its drawbacks, Melton admitted. Time limitations prevent some of the extra initiative necessary to attracting
new donors. "People aren’t usually beating the door down (to give funds)," Melton said. "Every year we have to scramble
more for money." Time constraints are "not helping the college ultimately." Melton said the duties of Covington, whose position has
been discontinued, and of Lee have been divided among the rest of the department. Lee’s area of specialty was raising
capital funds, which are invested rather than spent by the College. The addition of Marcia DeSieno as Research Assistant will
ease the staff shortage, Melton said. DeSieno will iden- (See Development, page 11)

Student participation in Trustee decisions extant, but not direct.
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Construction of new dorms and a Commons. Commitment to a top 20 basketball team. Self-selection on Patterson Court. Limited coeducation.
What the Board of Trustees decides becomes the official policy of the College. What role do students have in this
process? The College Constitution mandates that students be accorded "clearly defined means of participation in the formation and, where appropriate,
the application of College policy." Today, student participation includes the membership of students on various advisory committees and the official
attendance of one student—the SGA president—at Trustee meetings. Uninvited students cannot attend Trustee meetings.

Other schools have varying approaches to involving students in the making of policy. At one extreme is Emory, which allows
no student input at its trustee meetings. At the other extreme is the University of North Carolina system. Under the
Open Meetings Law, the governing bodies of all public universities in North Carolina must allow unrestricted public attendance at their
meetings, except when they go into executive session to discuss personnel and other sensitive matters. Private colleges determine for themselves
who attends trustee meetings.

"I wouldn't have much objection to open meetings," College President Samuel Spencer said. "A lot of colleges do it." Spencer
emphasized, however, that such a switch "doesn’t depend on me. It’s up to the Trustees."

SGA President Dave Waddill will attend next week’s Trustee meeting with basically the "same rights" as the Trustees themselves, except
the right to vote. He is the only student given this privilege. Other students may be invited to attend, but
their primary function is to report on specific issues the Trustees are considering. These students testify on limited concerns, while
Waddill can advocate student positions on a variety of issues. They attend on an ad hoc basis, while Waddill attends
regularly. Waddill, then, is an important link between student opinion and Trustee policy.

Does this system of limited participation allow for student input in policy decisions? To what extent are Trustees in touch
with student sentiment? Trustees attend three two-day meetings at the College each year. During this time they not only participate
in official meetings, but they also meet informally with students and faculty. For example, the Trustees will have lunch at
the Patterson Court houses so they can discuss issues with students. Williams College has similar procedures of informal trustee visits
to campus and closed trustee meetings. (See News Analysis, page 11)
