THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 15
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
February 8, 1980

Spencer proposes salary, fee increases
By ELIZABETH KISER
News Editor

College President Samuel Spencer proposed a 12.5% increase in faculty and staff compensation at this Tuesday’s faculty meeting. To pay
for this increase and other mounting college costs, Spencer also proposed raising tuition by $500 and room rent by $75.

The 12.5% raise consists of a 5% increase for all college employees to create a new base for wages, and
an additional 7.5% increase to be “distributed on a merit basis.” These proposals will go before the Advisory Council of
Finance and then to the Finance Committee of the Trustees before (See Faculty Salaries, p. 2)

Panel will discuss athletic policies
By BARBARA KELLEY
Staff Correspondent

Controversial issues concerning Davidson athletics in the 1980s will be discussed by a panel on Wednesday, February 13, at 6:45
in the Gallery. Open to students and faculty, the forum will serve as a prelude to athletic discussions during the
Trustee meeting on February 22.

The panel, selected by the SGA Athletic Committee, will consist of Trustee Perrin Anderson of Charlotte, Head Football Coach Ed
Farrell, Religion Professor David Kaylor, Physical Education Director Sterling Martin, Women’s Tennis Coach Pat Miller, and History Professor David Shi.

SGA Athletic Committee Chairman Jim Haynes said the coaches will discuss the future of “big” sports, NCAA divisions, scholarships, and
women’s sports in relation to Title IX. Kaylor and Shi will present opposing viewpoints concerning present athletic policy, while (See
Athletic Forum, p. 2)

This is where it all happened Tuesday night.

Employees win labor case against College
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

A National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) judge ordered settlement without trial of Physical Plant employee William Rolland’s complaint against the
College. The hearing was held Monday at the Federal District Court in Statesville, over a year since the dispute began.
Rolland feels the College had “dug in its heels” over a “trivial” matter.

The settlement requires the College to expunge all reprimands related to this case from the records of Rolland and co-workers
Ruben McIntosh and David Alexander. Also, McIntosh is to be given a job similar to one he was removed from
in January 1979.

College attorney Ken Chiles read into the court record that the College has never violated National Labor Relations Act provisions
and emphasized “Davidson's tradition” of treating its employees fairly. The judge also ordered the College to post notices for sixty
days explaining the terms of the settlement.

“I think we got a victory out of it,” McIntosh said. “I feel pretty good about it,” Alexander said. “(The
judge) gave us what we would have gotten if we had won the case,” Rolland agreed. The three employees had
(See NLRB, p. 11)

Bonfire catches with local media
By BILL PEEPLES
Special to The Davidsonian

A power failure Tuesday night and an ensuing bonfire in front of Sentelle dormitory turned from fun to misfortune as
Davidson students confronted the town's firemen. And the media loved it. One Charlotte television station was here to film a
portion of the incident.and aired the footage Tuesday night. Wednesday morning, an article appeared in the Charlotte Observer condemning students’
reactions, while other television stations sent film crews to Davidson for follow-up stories. The nature of this media coverage was
cause for unrest for both the student body and the administration. Housing Director Bill Bolding said, “the Observer article was
sensationalized.” Assistant Dean of Students Sue Ross agreed, saying “I think it has been over-reported.” College President Samuel Spencer noted,
“My guess, and it is only a guess, is that the whole thing has been exaggerated.” Though Spencer was not
present at the fire, he said that it is sort of natural for “students to get out of the dorms
and whoop and holler and build bonfires.” The sequence of events began at 8:35 p.m. An automobile crashed into a
telephone pole in front of Rexall drugstore on Main Street, cutting off all electricity on campus. (See Blackout, p. 11)

Ninth District race to feature current prof Kincaid, ex-prof Martin

By JIM CROWE
Staff Writer

Economics professor Randall Kincaid announced Monday that he will run for U.S. Congressman from North Carolina’s Ninth District, which consists
of Mecklenburg, Iredell, and Lincoln Counties. Kincaid, a Democrat, will confront Republican incumbent Jim Martin in the November elections. Both
men are unchallenged in the primaries. Martin was a chemistry professor at Davidson before his election to Congress in 1972.

Kincaid’s decision to challenge Martin followed a week of meetings with district and county Democratic chairmen. He said “the outpouring
of interest, support, and encouragement of the Democrats” prompted him to run. In return, he promised “the most vigorous campaign
this district has ever seen.” He stated that Martin had long represented “the interests of only a few” and pledged
to represent “all of our people all of the time.” In this era of inflation and recession, he said, “My
knowledge of economics makes me better equipped than my opponent to make the judgments necessary to restore economic stability.”

Kincaid said the strong support of the Democratic party will make the difference in the election. “In November, we will
elect not only a Democratic President, a Democratic Governor, and Democratic Senator, but also a Democratic Congressman from the Ninth
District.” He said that he can represent the three-county district “more effectively in a Democratic Congress with a Democratic President
than the incumbent can.”

Kincaid has not yet resigned but will use his leave of absence next year to campaign full-time. He said, “I’m
running a complete campaign, running hard in every precinct. I don’t concede a single vote to Jim Martin.” This week,
Kincaid began building campaign committees, many of which will include Davidson faculty and students, and making personal appearances to groups
around the district.

Both Kincaid and Martin began their political careers with the Davidson Town Board of Commissioners, and both even were members
of the choir at Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Kincaid, 39, graduated from Wofford College and received his Ph.D. in economics
from Duke University. In addition to teaching, he is presently serving his second term on the Davidson Town Board, consulting
for the Environmental Protection Agency, and working as part owner of a garden center in Statesville.
