October 17, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Kincaid bases campaign on economics background

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Editor's Note: This article is the first of two about ex-Davidson professors Randy Kincaid and Jim Martin, the two candidates
for North Carolina's ninth district Congressional seat, which encompasses Mecklenburg, Iredell, and Lincoln counties. The Davidsonian interviewed Kincaid Monday at
his home. An interview with Martin will appear in next week's issue.

Democrat Randy Kincaid considers economics to be the number one issue in North Carolina’s ninth district Congressional race. Kincaid, a
Davidson economics professor on leave, also considers economics to be his strong suit. For instance, Kincaid breaks inflation into four
components:
— Oil price inflation, largely caused by OPEC price hikes.
— Wage inflation, caused by workers’ wages increasing faster than their productivity.
— Monetary inflation, caused by the Federal Reserve's expanding the money supply.
— And excess demand, which occurs when individuals, businesses, or government spend excessively on a particular product.

“Now one of the things economists know is that for every separate problem you have in the microeconomic arena you've
got to have a separate attack,” Kincaid said. “We’ve just got some gaping holes in our ability to attack problems,
and that’s why we have inflation and unemployment simultaneously. We just don’t have enough tools to do the job.”

Kincaid thinks government’s long run attack on inflation and unemployment has to involve “finding new tools.” For example, Kincaid advocates
putting the government on a four-year budget. He feels the one-year budget leads to government by whim. It leads to
the Congress saying, “We don’t have to be particularly responsible because we can always take another crack at a program
next year.”

According to Kincaid, the four-year budget would allow the government to balance the budget over the business cycle. Also, it
would force Congress to make clear priority choices since any program they set in motion would continue for four years.
“It would give us a much better management approach,” he said. At the end of each fiscal year, various government
agencies rush to spend all that’s left of their budgets. Kincaid said a four-year budget would prevent the rush to
spend three years out of four.

The four-year budget has some support in Congress, but “It needs a champion,” Kincaid said. He added that budgetary reform
is the sort of issue he would be willing to dedicate himself to for years as a Congressman.

Kincaid thinks the government must adopt innovative policies—like four-year budgeting—to make real changes in its approach to economic problems. Any
debate about most federal spending, Kincaid said, is “quibbling around the fringes of the budget.” Most federal spending is appropriated
to areas—defense, social security, health, and interest on the federal debt—from which few people want to cut spending substantially.

Kincaid denounces what he calls “panaceas” for economic problems, such as the Kemp-Roth bill. Across-the-board tax cuts are inequitable, according
to Kincaid, because they benefit the rich far more than the poor. An executive who is in the 40 percent
tax bracket “would get several times the tax savings as a worker in the 15 percent bracket,” Kincaid said. A
tax cut would also be highly inflationary, Kincaid said, “because it dumps a whole lot of money into people’s pockets.”

Kincaid accuses Republican incumbent Jim Martin of accepting simplistic, “doctrinaire” solutions to complex economic problems. The Kemp-Roth Bill, for example.

Kincaid’s explanation of how he would have approached voting on loan guarantees for Chrysler is one example of his approach
to policymaking. Kincaid said he would weigh the following questions in deciding whether or not to grant a government loan
to a failing corporation:
— How much unemployment the failure of the corporation would cause.
— How much of an impact this unemployment would have on the government, especially in terms of increased unemployment compensation
outlays and lost tax revenues.
— How creditors of the failing corporation would be affected if it declared bankruptcy.

Kincaid emphasized he would vote for loan guarantees “case by case by case. Precedents don’t matter.” Though Kincaid explained how
he would have made his decision, he said he didn’t know how he would have voted on the Chrysler loan
guarantees.

On Energy
Kincaid feels an effective energy policy is crucial in halting oil-price inflation. To do so the United States must strive
to create a glut of oil among OPEC nations, Kincaid said. He advocates conservation and development of alternative energy sources.

Absentee Ballot Registration
Election Day (Nov. 4) is fast approaching, and so is the deadline for absentee ballots. Since it is difficult for
a college student to register in this county, the easiest way to vote is with an absentee ballot from your
home county. In order to obtain an absentee ballot, you must be aware of the following:
1) Usually you are eligible for an absentee ballot only if you have registered to vote.
2) For most states, you must first send a request form for an absentee ballot.ballot to your home county board
of elections. (For some states, however, a phone call to the board of elections is all that is needed.) A
request form for an absentee ballot can be obtained through Bobby Ervin (-6065) or Barry Mack (-6389) of the Young
Democrats.

3) The absentee ballot applications should be returned to your county board of elections (which is usually located in the
county seat). The deadlines for receiving absentee ballot applications are as follows for these several states:
- Georgia: 5 days before election day.
- Florida: 5:00 p.m. of the day before election day.
- Tennessee: 7 days before election day.
- North Carolina: 21 business days before election day.
- South Carolina: 3 days before election day.
- Virginia: 5 days before election day.

If your home is in another state, or if you have any questions, the Federal Election Commission has set up
a toll-free number, 1-800-424-9530, for information.

4) Upon receiving the absentee ballot you should fill it out and have it notarized.

5) Your absentee ballot is due at your home county board of elections by Nov. 3.

—Courtesy PIRG and Young Democrats

Kincaid explained that 70 percent of the budget is...

Kincaid believes the nation is “stuck with nuclear power and stuck with shales” as the alternatives to oil. In the
long run, Kincaid is enthusiastic about renewable resources, especially methane gas. Methane, according to Kincaid, can be produced organically—from seaweed,
for example—and converted into pipeline quality natural gas. The process can be done at sewage treatment plants, for the technology
involved is relatively simple. Kincaid also pointed out two solar ponds on the roofs of his house to demonstrate another
source of renewable energy.

On Defense
“We learned in the ’60s we can’t solve social problems by throwing money at them. The same thing applies to
defense.” Kincaid said Martin is “throwing money at defense.” Kincaid believes the proposed B-1 bomber and MX missile system are
a “colossal waste of money.” Cruise missiles, he said, are a cheaper, more effective alternative to the B-1. Also, expansion
of marine-launched missile systems makes more sense than development of the MX.

Several American defense policy goals are overriding, Kincaid said. He thinks European nations should bear more of the burden of
defending Europe. He also favors rearming Japan.

On Martin
Kincaid thinks Martin is ducking debate: “It’s good strategy on his part not to give me any more publicity than
he has to,” Kincaid said. “And he doesn’t want to have to defend his position on the economy,” Kincaid added.
“He’s not an economist; he’s not very good at economics.” Kincaid says since economics is the most important issue in
the campaign, it is the logical topic of a debate. “He knows in his gut that he just isn’t going
to come out too well in that kind of a debate,” Kincaid said.

Kincaid and Martin do have three joint appearances scheduled: one at a Charlotte Chamber of Commerce luncheon, one at the
Charlotte Latin School, a small prep school, and one at WTVI, a Charlotte public television station. Kincaid, however, feels these
events are not really debates, for they lack large audiences and don’t give the candidates a chance for rebuttal. Martin
has turned down invitations to debates from The Charlotte Observer and The Davidsonian. He and campaign aides maintain that his
schedule is full.

Kincaid describes Martin as a “predictable voice for big business,” especially the chemical, oil, and medical industries. However, he admitted
the charge was “difficult to document.” Kincaid said a “classic example” of Martin’s support of big business is his voting
on Superfund. To finance disposal of hazardous chemical wastes, the government proposed Superfund, which would jointly be funded by the
chemical industry and the public. Originally, the chemical industry and public were to have paid in equally to the fund.
However, when the House committee changed the ratio to 25 percent public funding and 75 percent industry funding, it did
so against Martin’s staunch opposition, according to Kincaid. But after Superfund was approved in committee and went before the whole
House, Martin voted for it. “He had it both ways,” Kincaid said. Similarly, Kincaid said that Martin voted for the
Windfall Profits Tax on the floor but “busted his gut to gut the thing in committee.”

Piedmont (Continued from page 1)
If they handle it (their credit) correctly, they can refer to their MasterCharge account through Piedmont Bank when attempting to
obtain future credit.
