Pt 4 The peal baad uses passive solar heating. (Stephen Ennis)

The Matchmaker travels to Charlotte
By SUE WOODIE, Staff Writer

Thornton Wilder’s comedy The Matchmaker will be the Davidson Theatre Department’s spring production. It is the play on which the
hit musical Hello Dolly! is based. The play has been popular since it was first presented, and its evolution can
be traced to an 1835 English play. An Austrian version of the play was presented in 1842, and Wilder’s first
rendition was performed in 1938 as The Merchant of Yonkers. The version to be presented by the theater department is
Wilder’s second, introduced in New York in 1955.

Dr. Rupert T. Barber, Jr., director, described The Matchmaker as a “fast-moving farce about the matchmaker, Dolly Levi, and two
youths from Yonkers who run off to New York for adventures far more perilous than they anticipated or desired.” He
added that the plot is “very complicated, as all farces are.” According to Barber, “The whole play is about adventure
and youth...about life and how to live it.” About 80 Davidson students are involved in the production, in addition to
fifteen cast members.

The costumes were designed by Dr. Joseph Gardner. They are colorful, and characteristic of the play’s period, the late 1880s.
Cast member Jack Hall, commenting on the play’s set, said, “Dr. Gardner and the Drama 21 class are doing a
great job—the set alone would be worth coming to see.” It is a revolving set in three parts. The play
is divided into four acts, with a different scene for each. When the set revolves after the first act, the
first scene will be changed to serve as a fourth. Hall added that the play will be “really very funny;
Tim Bethea and Alva Dearmond (in the lead roles) are very, very good.”

In addition to Dearmond as Dolly Levi, the matchmaker determined to find a new wife for the husband of her
deceased friend, and Tim Bethea as...

Dr. Kimmel’s “envelope home” nears completion
By ANTHONY EVERMAN, Staff Writer

With the costs of heating and cooling amid growing concern with dwindling energy supplies, many alternatives to the traditionally heated
homes are being wrought. The almost completed new home of Biology Professor Donald Kimmel is such an alternative. Kimmel’s house
is a “passive solar home,” which means that it acts as a collector and storing device for solar energy. “Active
solar homes” have separate collector panels which can further help heat air and water.

The house is one of a hundred or so “envelope homes” built in the U.S. in recent years. The interior
of the house is separated from the exterior by two sets of walls creating an “envelope” space through which warm
air will pass in the winter and cold air in the summer. On fair winter days, sunlight will enter through
a south-facing glass wall and its warmth will circulate around the house. At night, warm air which has collected during
the day in a basement storage plenum will circulate around the house in the opposite direction. In the summer, air
will enter through clerestory windows in the roof, “a solar...

Carolyne to rock Frolics
By ROBERT PAYNE, Staff Writer

Looking at the rather prim picture of Carolyne Mas on the cover of her self-titled album, you’d expect the standard
fare of sensitive, singer-songwriter, mood music. Mas’ debut album, however, cuts through that image with a vengeance. To type Mas,
she is a part of the burgeoning revival of the true female rockers that include artists like Pat Benatar, Ellen
Foley, and Marshall Chapman. It would be hard to label Mas as “new wave,” for her music has the feel
of the Springsteen/Southside Johnny axis.

Her album is, on the whole, a strong effort. Her voice has an energy and passion that can transcend her
occasionally weak material. Much like Grace Slick, Mas raises her clear, bell-like voice to soar above her backing. But on
songs like “Sadie Says” Mas can drop into a sultry pose:

I like to raise a little hell
I like to p--- away my pay.

...at her best while singing ahead of...Her band or driving rockers like "It’s No Secret." Her band is most responsible
for the Springsteen flavoring found on the album, with the work of saxophonist Crispin Coe evoking some of the feel
of Clarence Clemons of the E Street Band (a high compliment indeed). Besides a good backup band, Mas was lucky
to have the services of producer Steve Burgh, the man behind the rise of Steve Forbert. It is also worth
noting that Mas comes out of that same Greenwich Village scene that produced Forbert and the Roches—all within a 2-year
period. In the end, her producer and band are just icing on Mas’ cake. She has the sheer, raw ability—both
singing and songwriting—to stand on her own. It is a mark of her talent that she is surrounded by so
much talent on her debut album. Those who go to see Mas this Friday will be well-rewarded. Rumor has it
that Mas’ album pales before her live show where she really rocks out. She is not just another pretty face.

Cool air will enter the house through an underground pipe. In addition to the insulation of the envelope space, the
house is very "tightly constructed" and is insulated wherever possible, even in the space between the foundation of the house
and the first story. Ideally, the temperature of the living area of the house will stay between 65 degrees and
75 degrees F. In the envelope space, the temperature should vary between 50 degrees and 80 degrees F. Here, the
Kimmels plan to grow various plants and winter vegetables such as tomatoes, lettuce, and herbs. The placement of the house
on its terrain will enhance its energy conservation. In the winter, the house will be warmed by direct sunlight, but
in the summer, the house will be spared because of the change in the angle of the sun’s rays. Also,
hardwood trees, left in close proximity to the house, will diffuse the sunlight in the summer but allow it to
pass unobstructed in the winter. For the time being, water will be heated by an "ultraflow" electric water heater. Ultimately,
Kimmel hopes to install solar panels to heat water.

the hair cottage by appointment
creative haircutting for men & women
1757 east rocky river road
davidson 892-5107

Mother’s Day
get your Mother's Day cards early
full line of Hallmark Cards
gifts & free wrapping
SADLER SQUARE DAVIDSON

Horace Vandergelder, the widower and merchant from Yonkers, N.Y., the cast includes John Boswell as Vandergelder’s chief clerk; Karen Weir
as a New York City milliner, Irene Malloy; John Boggess as Barnaby Tucker, Vandergelder's apprentice; Nancy Cloyed as Minnie Fay,
an assistant in Mrs. Malloy’s hat shop; Joyce Robinson as Ermengarde, Vandergelder’s niece; Eric Fichtner as Ambrose Kemper, an artist
in love with Ermengarde; Jack Hall as Malachi Stack, Vandergelder’s over-imbibing new employee; Julie Webber as Miss Flora Van Husen,
friend of Vandergelder’s late wife; Catherine McMillan as Gertrude, Vandergelder’s housekeeper; Gregg Londrey as Rudolf, head waiter at the Harmonia
Gardens Restaurant in New York City; Bert Mobley as August, waiter; Charles Leucker as a Cabman; and Martha Farrar as
Miss Van Husen’s cook.

The Matchmaker is unique for Davidson’s theater department in that it is the first Davidson production ever to be performed
in Charlotte. After performances in Hodson Hall on April 24, 25, and 26 at 8:00 p.m., the group will take
the play to Spirit Square, Charlotte’s new arts center, for performances on May 2 and 3. The Davidson Theater Department
is one of ten local theater groups performing during a two-month celebration of the opening of Spirit Square.

Tickets are on sale for both weekends at the Davidson College Theater box office in Cunningham Fine Arts Building, 2-5
p.m. each weekday. Ticket prices for the Hodson Hall performances are $2.00 for students, $3.00 for non-students; and for the
Spirit Square performances, $3.00 for students and senior citizens, $4.00 for all others. All seats are reserved for the Charlotte
performances, so tickets should be purchased early. For information or reservations, call 892-2000, extension 340.

Dial 100331000
Work as a Manpower temporary. Flexible
