Upcoming films present trendy Buddha and Clint Eastwood in a glove

By NICK GRAHAM
Staff Writer

This Friday in Love the Pop Films Committee kicks off their Winter Season with what is probably the weakest feature
in an otherwise excellent selection which ranges from the high-class thud and blunder of The Spy Who Loved Me to
the near-perfection of Annie Hall and Being There. The opening film, Clockwork, will be at PAX at 9:00 Thursday night.

Clint Eastwood’s The Gauntlet features the man himself in what may be his most bafflingly ambiguous production. If this display
of ponderously inarticulate energy is indeed being served up as genuine mass-market pulp, then it is probably his weakest vehicle
since the early and justifiably neglected Two Mules for Sister Sarah—now usually trotted out at Eastwood all-nighters as a curio
from his “dynamite-and-cigars” days. However, once the viewer recalls Every Which Way But Loose and starts to regard the whole
thing as calculated self-parody, then the film gains a new dimension and becomes positively pleasurable. Clint addicts (they are many,
and probably baying for my blood at this moment) will go to see it anyway; for the less committed, I'd
recommend it, if only to let you decide for yourselves how comic it really is: I just can’t make up
my mind. Either way, Eastwood has done more than anybody else in the last twenty years to turn the B-feature
into a respectable art, and when he’s on form in his own genre, nobody does it better.

The Fine Film offering for Wednesday, 10th December, is a rather different matter. Siddhartha is adapted from Herman Hesse’s popular
novel of the same name.

NCPIRG financial problems exist in chapters nationwide

By MICHAEL ARKUSH
College Press Service (CPS)

At Indiana University, InPIRG—the Indiana Public Interest Research Group—has received less than half of the student backing it got last
year. If the trend continues, its staffers say, it could be out of business by this time next year. Iowa
State University’s citizen research organization—IPIRG—collected $9000 from student fees in 1979, compared to $18,000 in 1978. This semester, it raised
the student fee from one to two dollars. It hasn't helped. And at Davidson College in North Carolina, the PIRG
chapter barely has been kept alive by a massive publicity drive that may have already reached its peak.

From these indications, it appears that PIRG branches across the nation are staggering. Buffeted by administrative opposition and perhaps student
apathy, the public interest research movement, begun in 1970 by consumer activist Ralph Nader, may have run its course at
several campuses.

But in Washington, a Nader aide says the PIRG network, if anything, has become stronger in the last two years,
and has “improved its techniques from lobbying to recruiting.”

“PIRGs are increasing their sophistication,” contends aide David Jones, “and they seem to be becoming more skilled in the ways
they deal with social problems.” Jones even brags that a recent count shows PIRG has spread to approximately 140 chapters
in 25 states. He indicates that is a clear signal that the student consumer movement to fight the huge and
powerful utilities and certain private companies is gaining momentum.

Yet three of the new chapters Jones cited as examples of growth do not seem very well endowed for battles
with big business. One new branch, at Framingham State College in Massachusetts, consists of about 10 volunteers who sit at
a table on campus several hours a week. They have no phone or office. Their pamphlets and other equipment are
stored in the campus women’s center. Two other new branches also do not have offices.

Moreover, students have actively rejected establishing PIRG chapters at several universities. A measure to allow a CALPIRG funding check-off box
on UCLA registration forms failed by a spare 33 votes last May. At Rutgers, three law students have begun a
class action suit to make PIRG funding there voluntary. AndIf things don’t get better soon at Indiana, the PIRG effort
there may be reduced to the same sort of homeless status as some of its newer sister branches. In 1979,
11 percent of the Indiana students marked their support for the group in the regular registration form, contributing $1.50 per
person to the campaign. But even though this semester’s fee was hiked to $2, PIRG only raised about 70 percent
of the amount it got last year. More ominously, the group failed to receive the support of 10 percent of
the campus population. Consequently, it could lose its position on the university’s registration forms next year. Without that listing, the
group would face certain disaster, according to staff director Dan Howell. This year’s loss of revenue—from nearly $6000 to $4200—coupled
with the threat of losing its place on the registration form has frightened Howell into believing that it may be
forced to become an all-volunteer organization next year. “If we don’t have enough money to hire someone with solid research
skills,” Howell says, “and some knowledge of legislative activities, then we can’t be effective.” Howell says he admires the dedication
of volunteer students, but complains “they just do not have the expertise that PIRG needs.”

The blame for the group’s failure to raise adequate funds and garner student support, Howell contends, belongs to the school’s
administrators. He points to a number of administrative technicalities which made the registration form more complex, and thus more difficult
for students to affirm their support. “The box for marking ‘no’ was before the one with ‘yes,’ and the PIRG
listing was explained at the same table with other things on the form. It made everything so complicated,” he argues.
But his discontent centers around what he calls the administration’s “opposition to our goals.” He says that PIRG’s attacks on
the big industries and utilities in town have generated local business pressures on the university to curtail PIRG’s effectiveness. (See
PIRG, page 11)

...same name which purports to trace the Buddha’s search for enlightenment. The major trouble with this treatment is that the
struggle toward nirvana is too often abandoned in order to allow the camera to dwell upon the picture-postcard views of
the India-Land-of-Contrasts variety. The blame for this undeniably stunning opulence is usually laid firmly at the door of Sven Nykvist,
Bergman’s regular lensman, who directed the photography here. In fact, the Swede probably emerges from the affair with more credit
than anybody else, because the scenes which attempt to grapple with the complexities of Buddhism tend to do for the
way of Enlightenment what King of Kings did for Christianity. Whether this means that another of the world religions is
ripe for the Life of Brian treatment remains to be seen, but if an India which conforms to Federal Hygiene
Laws, and platitudes which make Allen Ginsburg seem a spiritual colossus appeal to you, then this Buddha’s for you. While
the visual attractions are immediately seductive and ultimately uplifting, this film is a dire warning to those who seek to
capitalize upon novels fashionable among the trendier reaches of the intelligentsia: the delights of the elaborate icing and decorations disguise
a cake sadly lacking in nourishment for either intellect or soul.

Students of the social sciences. Junior year ............ Mathematical Sciences.

LONDON SCHOOL OF ECONOMICS

A chance to study and live in London. A wide range of subjects and courses is available in Central London
for Postgraduate Diplomas, One-year Master's degrees, and Research. Subjects include Accounting and Finance, Actuarial Science, Anthropology, Business Studies, Econometrics, Economics,
Economic History, Geography, Government, Industrial Relations, International History, International Relations, Law, Management Science, Operational Research, Philosophy, Politics, Social Administration, Social
Work, Sociology, Social Psychology, and Statistical and Mathematical Sciences.

Application blanks from: Admissions Secretary, L.S.E., Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, England. Please state whether junior year or postgraduate.

Open 10am - 6pm, Monday - Saturday
128 S. Main St.
Davidson — 892-7621
