THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

There Is No Excuse

No, it isn’t true that the campus bonfire during the blackout devoured an automobile and two cute baby turtles. But
it is true that some students’ conduct in front of Sentelle dormitory Tuesday night was inexcusable. Period.

Davidson students verbally and physically harassed Davidson volunteer firemen who were merely trying to do their duty. Admittedly, the firemen
could have been calmer also. But when you consider that students were chanting obscenities at the firemen the first time
they came, as well as dousing the firemen with beer and water, it is not hard to understand why the
firemen overreacted the second time they were called. The firemen were scared, unfortunately with good reason.

The firemen should have had no reason to expect a confrontation in the first place. Had students been less hostile
during the firemen’s first visit, the second might not have been so eventful. Both the students and the firemen have
something to be ashamed of. Yet the College community seems determined to play down the incident, concentrating on the media’s
coverage of the event rather than the event itself. No matter how misguided media coverage was, the indisputable fact is
that students acted irresponsibly.

SGA President John Jackson’s forthcoming letter of apology to the Davidson fire department is a step in the right direction.
We hope students, administrators, and firemen will realize and admit there really was a serious problem Tuesday night, instead of
directing attention elsewhere. We are sorry it all happened.

—Mark Barrett

Never Wrong

Davidson College was hauled into court Monday simply because it refused to admit it was wrong. The College basically granted
the year-old demands of three physical plant employees Bill Rolland, Ruben McIntosh, and David Alexander, in a court-ordered settlement. The
three had merely circulated a petition questioning certain college employment policies. The College considered the petition such a threat to
its authority that it reprimanded the employees and moved them to less desirable jobs.

Yet we understand the College has been trying to settle the case out of court on the same terms as
were eventually reached in court since the suit was filed last summer. The major demand the College was unwilling to
grant was to admit it was in the wrong, although the evidence weighs heavily in the employees’ favor. And the
College still refuses to admit it. The employees, feeling their reputations impugned, pressed for this admission, and in a certain
sense got it. The College gave up almost everything in the court settlement that it would have if the case
had come to trial, except admitting it was wrong.

Had the College been willing to acknowledge its mistake earlier, all the expense and embarrassment of the court settlement could
have been avoided. And to top it all off, a College attorney cited “Davidson's tradition” of treating its employees fairly,
in Davidson's defense. This tradition includes the hotly contested yet unexplained dismissal of South Asian Studies Professor Tonia Devon in
1978. In spring 1979, widely admired professors Norman Kolier and Joseph Retzer were unfortunately denied tenure and refused a re-evaluation
of the decision. And although some relief appears to be in sight, faculty morale has been dropping steadily because of
low salaries and a disbelief that the administration was concerned about the problem. We can only assume that these incidents,
in which the College acted with secrecy and thoughtlessness, are part of the tradition. Some tradition.

—Mark Barrett

ADVISERS, WHAT GIVES?

BE NICE

The Campus Forum

Computers

To the Editor:

I read with some interest Mr. Phillip’s commentary “Computers need Reevaluating” (The Davidsonian, February 1, 1980). It is difficult to
deny that familiarity with computers, as well as with other forms of technology, aids in understanding modern society. My experiences
with computers, however, have caused me to question the role of the liberal arts college.in breeding computer familiarity. At another
liberal arts college during its summer term, I was able to take a computer programming course as part of a
normal course load. The programming course exposed me to some of the best educational computing facilities in the country. I
enjoyed this course, but it was a course in political philosophy I also took that term that I value most.
It seems to me that a liberal arts college should emphasize the liberal arts more than tools. Computers used as
sophisticated card catalogs, fancy typewriters, and electronic blackboards are neat but trivial. Davidson is a liberal arts college and not
a vocational school. A reevaluation of computers at Davidson needs to keep priorities.

Andrew Umhas '81

Broken Glass

To the Editor:

I am taking this opportunity to bring to the attention of the Davidson College community an act of dangerous neglect
for human safety that was done on Wednesday of this week. Soon after an entire fraternity had sat down to
lunch, two snowballs crashed through two of the very large plate glass windows in the dining room. By the grace
of God, only a few minor cuts, one close to an eye, were the result. The potential was definitely there
for more than one person to have been seriously injured if not blinded by flying glass, all in the name
of “harmless fun.” This intentional act was done by a person with no obvious motive. The person in question will
not be prosecuted under an ineffective Code of Responsibility if no one volunteers their names. Even if names were disclosed,
how could one properly assess reparation for endangering the health and safety of over 70 persons? As a worried student,
I am frightened as to the precedent an act of this callous nature could set. Severe discipline is in order
for the guilty persons if caught. If they are not punished, our Code of Responsibility is just a worthless piece
of paper.

James W. Altizer '81

Sloppy Work

To the Editor:

Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor of the Davidsonian, wrote a meandering article on the Vietnam War Feb. 1... I think. He
discussed the individual, and Carter's political speeches. Dwight’s journalism is sloppy. His writing contains copious quantities of superfluity. In other
words, he overworks his typewriter. Run-on sentences, half-finished thoughts, and unexpected shifts in topic create unnecessary confusion. An article won't
be read if it is difficult to decipher. I could live with Dwight’s writing if he had not overstepped his
bounds within the article itself. I don’t believe the Davidsonian Opinions Editor is qualified to categorically state that, and I
quote, “If we fight a war in Southwest Asia, we will again show that ‘the interests of our country’ means
preserving American control over events in countries on the other side of the globe, however misguided and unwanted that control
may be. Preserving control is not only an impossible delusion of a bygone era.” I could find no quotes from
authorities versed in A) the economic needs of the United States, B) the political and military means by which the
United States retains “control” of Southwest Asia, C) the historical documentation of the United States' past attempts to control other
countries. Research in these areas would have yielded a very interesting article, uncluttered with extraneous information. Dwight overreaches himself repeatedly
in the article. Nowhere is this more evident than in his call for restraint and remembrance of the lessons of
Vietnam. He fails to warn the reader that there can be too much of a good thing. In his behalf,
I submit the following argument for a limit.

Continued on page 6

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. All letters must be signed. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson,
N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office.
