_8—The Davidsonian—May 2, 1980

Sports - can consider the emphasis placed upon basketball and football to the exclusion of minor sports (or so some
would have us believe), the lack of committed coaching in several minor sports, the Division I status of basketball and
its implications, or the misappropriation of athletic funds. Frankly, I find these topics exhausted and rather boring. Therefore, I choose
to direct my thoughts to more interesting matters.

My overrated collegiate list will probably make AP and UPI’s All-NBA squad within five years. But no matter, these players
will be long gone. Before we deal with such intriguing matters, I would briefly comment to those athletic bleeding hearts
who populate much of this campus and newspaper. Basketball and football are money sports; they generate more spectator interest; they
are more important than field hockey, cross-country, lacrosse, etc.; and athletes add variety to Davidson. They belong here. Ed Farrell
and Eddie Biedenbach are doing solid jobs, so give them a break. If after a certain period of time their
programs aren’t producing, then bring in new blood, but for now leave these programs alone and see what happens. If
you reply that’s what everyone has been doing since plummeted since single-season play, I would wager that the man will
end up in Harvard Law.

Mike O’Koren doesn’t rank far behind Gminski with regard to overratedness. The skinny 6’8”, 6’7”, or 6’6” (depending upon which
press guide one picks up) senior couldn't hit the broad side of a barn down the stretch this year. His
career high of 31 points came as a freshman, and he never touched that again. But who couldn’t excel playing
alongside the likes of Phil Ford and “Sweet D”? Dean Smith points to the fact that O’Koren led his team
in rebounds, assists, minutes played, defensive recoveries, skinned knees, and left-handed dunks, but where was OK when his team needed
the thirteen-footer against Texas A&M? He was passing the ball to Al Wood, that’s where. Wood carried the Tar Heels
the latter part of the season and deserved first-team All-ACC recognition.

One might refute my statements by referring to the no-zone rule in the NBA which says that a Jersey City
player like O’Koren who can take it to the rack at will can forego the outside jumper. That’s manure. There’s
as much zone played in the NBA as in most college conferences. O’Koren will assume Jim Spanarkel’s position on the
end of some team’s bench unless he goes to the Celtics who can mold anybody.

Joe Barry Carroll can’t be neglected. His exploits were raved about all season long, but when one examines his trusty
Sporting News, he will find Carroll’s name present on only one list of individual statistics, that being scoring. He averaged
21 a game which seems meager after listening to Al McGuire describe him as another “aircraft carrier.” Carroll is 7’1”
and weighs 240 pounds and yet wasn't among the nation’s top 20 rebounders. UCLA’s little big men pounded him on
the glass in Louisville and his defensive ability is questionable. Carroll can definitely put it in the hole, but he
won't get the chance when Sir Slam, Cowens, etc., start throwing their weight around. JBC either needs to hit the
bench press or learn to play facing the basket because he isn’t physical enough, or at least didn’t display it
at Louisville to excel in the NBA.

Kelly Tripuka claims the fourth spot on this illustrious team and this pick requires little explanation. Tripuka is a step
slow, not a tremendous leaper, possesses a jumper which rivals O’Koren’s eighteen-footer, and fits right in with all the chunky
white.boys at Notre Dame. His name and reputation carried him two years ago as a freshman but no more. Granted
that Digger Phelps’ club plays team ball, but Tripuka’s passing and defense don’t offset his low point production, 13 per
game this past season. He’ll have to improve his floor game and adapt to a quicker transition game, which isn’t
characteristic of the Fighting Irish, if he hopes to hang on in the NBA because his power game will be
rendered defunct by Truck Robinson, Dan Roundfield, and similar power ballplayers. Tripuka is too slow to play in the backcourt.

They'll probably put a price tag on my head in Lexington, Ky., because Kyle Macy rounds out the top five.
Call him a coach on the floor, a heady ballplayer or whatever; I still say his ankles are too thick
and he can’t score unless wide open. Completely undefended jumpers are few and far between in the big leagues, and
Macy will see smoke when he faces Maurice Cheeks, Tiny Archibald, or whomever. He is a fine marksman from the
charity stripe, but if I recall, he lost his touch at the line against LSU and couldn’t come through in
the clutch against Duke either. (Yeah, I know he had a virus or something, but you know what they say,
“When the going gets tough...”) Macy will have to be drafted by a patterned team if he hopes to earn
his bread playing ball, and disciplined clubs are indeed rare in the NBA today.

To conclude this highly opinionated piece, Kelly Tripuka doubtlessly reaps the most overrated award if for no other reason than
his frizzled hair, which is obnoxious. Also, Hawkeye Whitney and Mark Aguirre would have been included because of their tournament
performances, but their rear ends are ample enough to bump and run with the big boys who play the power
game.

Add experience to your degree. Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different careers. It won’t be
unusual to make changes as you go. And it’s entirely possible that your final career does not even exist today.
Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of “take charge” experience civilian employers seek. It’s a margin of
difference in the increasingly competitive job market.

Now that my position is clear, we can proceed. Duke’s Mike Gminski heads the 1979-80 most overrated squad. Rennae Betts
was my mother’s preseason top five, which merits my most vicious comments. But how can someone who averaged twenty points
and eleven rebounds be that overrated? Easy! Bill Foster geared his attack to the G-man at the expense of everyone
else, and other teams knew it. For the third consecutive year, Gene Banks’ game was throttled by Gminski’s lumbering presence
clogging the lane waiting for the ball. Offensively, he can hold his own, except when he forces shots as he
did in an early game.

If Terry Holland exited, then I would point to Biedenbach and Marv Kessler, who should put new life into Davidson
basketball.
