April 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

Marsha Coates helps the women’s soccer team to a recent victory.

(David McLean)

Women's tennis, 2nd in State, advances to Regionals

By NINA BROOME
Staff Writer

After a successful week at the State Tournament, the Davidson women’s tennis team is now looking ahead to the Regionals in Charleston, S.C. Although High Point College finished on top, the Cats qualified by tying for second with Guilford College; all three teams will advance to the Regionals on May 8.

Davidson's top two players, Emmy Knobloch and Hope McArn, turned in superior performances at the number one and two positions. Winning in straight sets, Knobloch eased through her flight to the finals where, through consistent play, she dominated her Guilford opponent. McArn, although seeded fourth, found her way past a strong second-seeded High Point player to become Davidson's second flight champion.

Other team members put on a good show. Catherine Smith, Adelaide Wilcox, and Bunny Horine made the semifinals before losing to the eventual winners of their flights. Number six singles player, Anne Stanback, too, was defeated by the winner of her bracket, but was victorious in her consolation.

In doubles, Davidson continued to collect points. At the three position, Grace Morgan and Bunny Horine gave their best effort and made the finals. One and two doubles, also strong teams, played well and progressed to the semifinals. The Cats are enthusiastic about their trip to the Regionals and have been practicing daily to get into shape. Coach Pat Miller says, “We’re pleased with our overall performance at State and glad we made it to the Regionals.”

Friday 8 & 10:30 Love

$1.50 or SEASON PASS

The FIRST Certified

PETER FALK ALAN ARKIN in
An ARTHUR HILLER Film “THE IN-LAWS”
Music by JOHN MORRIS - Executive Producer ALAN ARKIN
Written by ANDREW BERGMAN
Produced by ARTHUR HILLER and WILLIAM SACKHEIM
Directed by ARTHUR HILLER TECHNICOLOR®

©1979 WARNER BROS INC
From Warner Bros.
A Warner Communications Company

Of 5 games

Cats lose 3, beat UNCC

By STOKES PEEBLES
Staff Writer

The Davidson College baseball team is trying to get back on the right track after struggling through last week when it dropped three out of five games. The losses gave the Wildcats a 14-18 record overall but the Cats still remained over .500 in the conference with a 6-5 record.

Starting off the week, Davidson triumphed over Wofford with a 6-0 victory. Cam Zurbruegg slammed a three-run homer to pace the Cats' offensive attack. Rusty Colechia provided a strong performance by pitching a two-hit complete game and by striking out nine.

Then Davidson traveled to Johnson City, Tennessee, to compete against East Tennessee State University in a Southern Conference doubleheader. This was a key series in determining whether the Cats would retain the Conference lead, but Davidson lost 6-1 and 4-0. The bright spot of both games was pitching. Jon Young and Diggs Bishop pitched well and kept the Cats close throughout.

Davidson then lost to Wingate 12-7 but ended the losing streak by defeating UNCC 7-3 on Tuesday. The victory over the 49ers avenged an earlier season loss to the cross-county rivals. In the game, John Porter had three hits while Marc Webster added two hits and two runs batted in. Rusty Colechia again provided pitching support with a complete game victory and was aided by several fine defensive plays. John Haskell added his seventh home run of the year to the tally.

With only two weeks left in the season, several players are making new contributions to the Wildcat squad. Rusty Colechia has pitched well in recent outings and Marc Webster has added offensive punch since he cracked the starting lineup. John Porter continues his torrid batting and is now batting above .370. He also tied the Davidson stolen base record with two steals against UNCC and will probably break it before the season is over. Several key games remain this season to determine the Cats’ final conference standing.

Both the men’s and women's tennis teams travel to Southern Conference Tournaments this weekend.

(Trey Thies)

the hair cottage

by appointment

creative haircutting for men & women

last week for April special

1757 East Rocky River Road
Davidson
892-5107