September 19, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Lights! Camera! Action? : The Rise Of Reagan
Robert Bowie.

One night in 1911, a star twinkled brightly over a small town in rural Illinois. Ronald Reagan was about to
be born. Fate would smile over this child for the next 69 years, taking the youth first to Hollywood, then
to the governorship of California, and now to the steps of the White House. The Ronald Reagan Story classically depicts
how chance thrust greatness on one of America’s least promising children.

Reagan came from humble beginnings. Father John Edward Reagan was an alcoholic who clerked in a store and transported his
clan from one obscure town to another. Reagan’s later private life, unusually free of scandal for such a public figure,
may have emerged from the values he picked up early. He knew how to curb his tongue and only go
so far because all the neighbors were watching.

In high school, Reagan worked in the assortment of crazy odd jobs that fill the summers and lazy weekends of
young Americans. He sold popcorn at football games, working the crowd with a broad grin and a loud voice. Sound
familiar? He was able to display his handsome body prominently as a lifeguard at Lowell Park in Dixon. Always, even
in these early days, Reagan surrounded himself with large numbers of people. The heart of a political extrovert at home
and happy in the multitude started to beat then as Reagan patrolled the beach or wandered the aisles of the
football stadium.

Eureka College in Eureka, Illinois could hardly be expected to produce one of the leading intellectuals of our era. Reagan
supporters cheer that their candidate studied straight laissez-faire dogmatics rather than the leftist heresies of John Maynard Keynes. Actually, Reagan
didn't spend much more time pondering the treasured tomes of Adam Smith than the hated volumes of Karl Marx. He
trusted his photographic memory to save himself from the grind of academics and instead apply himself to “more important” extracurricular
activities. Playing on the football team, clowning at the fraternity house, and appearing in college plays—Reagan spent his time doing
all of these and in the process enhanced his ability as a talkative extrovert.

After graduation, Reagan’s voice came vibrating out of radios all over Des Moines, Iowa. His outgoing disposition and forceful way
of speaking landed him a well-paying job as a sportscaster during the height of the Depression. Spellbound fans soaked up
Reagan’s every word as he solemnly blasted out fast narratives—a hit, a run, a homer! Little did they realize that
he wasn’t watching the game at all. The plays of teams like the Chicago White Sox came off the Western
Union telegraph to be translated by the eager Reagan into heroic tests of human skill, courage, and endurance. Today, he
practices the same art by turning mundane economic statistics into emotional pleas for his Presidency.

In 1937 came a screen test and Hollywood. Reagan played a series of “B” movies, at first cast as a
radio announcer. As an untrained (some would say untalented) actor, he brought the public persona he had built up for
years unaltered to the motion picture screen. Like his friend John Wayne, Reagan didn’t act as much as react. Movies
were the road to riches and he moved up that road steadily, as many as seven or eight films a
year. Today Reagan the actor is remembered more for the sizable lines he muttered (“I wonder if I can teach
this monkey the difference between right and wrong?”) than for the quality of any of his performances.

Reagan became a somewhat bigger star through his role as George Gipp, the Notre Dame football star who dies before
halftime in Knute Rockne, All American, a picture that may have changed the course of world history. Reagan took as
his first wife, the beautiful actress Jane Wyman. They starred together in a number of Grade B films. Everything was
sailing along smoothly until World War II intervened. Called up for active duty by the Army Air Corps, Reagan was
assigned the hazardous duty of narrating military training films. One of these pictures, Target Tokyo, features the sensitive Reagan cheerfully
urging the troops on as the screen simulates the firebombing of a large Japanese city. A prophetic image or a
dull week’s work?

After the war, Reagan worked hard in the Screen Actors Guild.and was elected. "PARDON ME. I'M RONALD REAGAN AND I'M
RUNNING AGAINST JIMMY CARTER—DO YOU WANT TO SEE FOUR MORE YEARS OF INEPT BUMBLING?" president of that struggling organization. His
marriage broke up under the pressure of his long working hours and perhaps through the embarrassment of wife Jane being
better known than he was. Reagan bravely testified before the House Un-American Activities Committee on how much work he'd done
against the Red Menace in Hollywood. While a union official and flag-waving patriot, Reagan met his second wife, fellow actress
and extreme conservative Nancy Davis. In his final fling before entering professional politics, Reagan served as a PR spokesman for
the General Electric Company. He did commercials for the industrial giant and introduced the reportedly bland programs of G.E. Theater
with an equally bland sales pitch. The company sent him to make speeches at G.E. plants to boost productivity. Reagan
quickly learned the value of empty rhetoric on God, free enterprise, and self-reliance. Reagan, the politician, would take the same
speech on economy and foreign policy, and be elected governor of California.

In 1964, Reagan made a series of effective campaign commercials for the soon-to-be annihilated Barry Goldwater, and drew the attention
of the California Republican establishment. He became governor in 1967. During his campaign, people joked about "James Stewart for governor;
Ronald Reagan for best friend." It is close to fourteen years later and no one is laughing. Some good luck
and the ability to talk to more than one person at once have brought Ronald Reagan a long way, and
threaten to take him even further. A Ronald Reagan Presidency is the next best thing to Being There.

Robert Bowie is a senior English major from Anderson, South Carolina.

---

College Press Service

Teacher Morale Hinges On Finances

Frazier Worth

Despite miserable salaries (as low as $13,500 per year for an instructor), is Davidson College still very attractive to prospective
teachers? Probably. Two years ago, the Religion department received 125 responses in their search for a new professor, which culminated
in the hiring of Dr. Michael Root. A few years earlier, the English department received approximately 400 responses from its
advertisement of the vacancy eventually filled by Dr. Randy Nelson. This is in spite of a well-documented trend in recent
years, in which Davidson professors fail to keep up with inflation, and perhaps more significantly, fail to keep pace with
salaries offered by schools with which we compete for teachers and students. Chances are, however, that as the departments begin
to replace the fifteen professors who left last year for reasons other than retirement, there will still be plenty of
hungry scholars more than willing to take whatever Davidson offers. As anyone in the business will tell you, it’s a
buyer’s market.

These circumstances allow Davidson to build colossal eating facilities of questionable necessity and pour money into athletic programs with sadly
unrealistic goals. But the fact remains that Davidson is taking advantage of its most vital component—its teachers, and we students
pay a price for it. Davidson asks more than other schools of its teachers. Whether it is spelled out in
policy or not, Davidson asks its professors to befriend and advise students as well as instruct them. And it is
this interaction outside the classroom that, I believe, makes Davidson attractive to prospective students and a special place for those
of us already here. The honesty and quality of this unique situation depend on the attitude of Davidson's teachers toward
their job. Admittedly, scholars are a temperamental group (which isn’t surprising considering their considerable sacrifice), and reality will seldom live
up to their ideals. But to continually face a teaching situation where unwritten policy is more important than written policy
(i.e., tenure), and where salaries are steadily falling behind while plenty of money seems available for less essential needs, is
going to affect morale in a harmful way. The subtle yet crucial difference in attitude that makes Davidson more than
just a good school may slowly be fading away. So even if Davidson can continue to attract the same caliber
of teachers it has in the past, their minds may be occupied elsewhere.

Frazier Worth is a junior majoring in biology. He is from Jefferson, North Carolina.
