Davidson does Dungeons & Dragons

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Staff Writer

Between ourselves and the powers of darkness!

Heaven heard us, for though Dracula threw a lightning bolt at us, it flashed back on the caster, wounding him...
Dracula finally consented to open a dimension door for us, sending us back to our own land, and for his
bravery, Maud d’B was granted one question, as his heart was great enough to forgive even Dracula. Maud d’B asked,
“Why is there so much evil in the world?” The Gods answered, “In order that there might be greater good.”
Then Maud d'B passed through the dimension door, and left the ranks of mortals...

Something from a Gothic horror novel? Science fiction epic? Comic book? Bad dream? In actuality, this is but a small
excerpt from the records of Anandas the Elven Wizard (alias Cindy Perry) recounting the deeds of “a group of foolhardy
explorers seeking doom and certain death.” I refer, of course, to the devotees of that bizarre and not particularly well-understood
fantasy game, Dungeons and Dragons (D&D). Anyone who has ever heard of hobbits, sandworms, or Conan the Barbarian has probably
heard of D&D too. Like the fantasy and science fiction books on which it thrives, D&D has recently become a
phenomenon of campus life in colleges across the country. Davidson is no exception and boasts four or five dungeons (groups
of game players) of its own.

D&D is an offspring of the old adult war and strategy games that haunt all well-equipped bookstores. Created by Dave
Arneson and Gary Gygax in 1973, it began as a humble rulebook supplement to a medieval battles game. As the
game’s popularity grew, so did its rules and tactics. More supplements followed. Today, the mechanics and methods of D&D are
contained in no less than three hardcover books: The Player's Handbook, The Monster Manual (containing over 350 bizarre creatures), and
the ever-important Dungeon Master's Guide (Even more complicated than Monopoly!).

D&D came to Davidson from the hallowed halls of Princeton University, where a Davidson resident was infected with the fever
by some of the original players of the game. Later, the sons of the Blackwells, who own The Village Store,
became interested; today the store is stocked with a generous inventory of manuals, figurines, and other paraphernalia. D&D has been
growing in popularity ever since.

To the uninitiated masses, D&D seems like nothing more than a chaotic, wholesale mixture of sci-fi and fantasy jargon, and
if you ever have the (mis)fortune of talking to an overly-charismatic D&D’er, forty-five minutes of excited descriptions will boil down
to little more than that. Like other games, however, D&D follows a logical pattern of serious play.

Materials needed are pencil, paper, and a vivid imagination. The Dungeon Master maps out a world of his own design,
complete with towns, castles, mountains, rivers, creatures, and, in carefully selected locales, multi-level labyrinthine dungeons in which treasures lie and
monsters lurk. Each player chooses a character, assigning him traits, skills, weapons, and some form of moral orientation. Personalities may
range from diabolically evil wizards to virtuous knights. All this is done through complex dice-rolling procedures, which continue to direct
activity throughout the game. The object is basically simple: the player is out for treasure and must stay alive long
enough to get it and bring it home. If successful, he gains more power, wealth, and prestige.

The dungeon is the best place to find treasure, as I soon found out when Tom Besselieu, a formidable Dungeon
Master, offered to give me a taste of the game and “roll me a character.” Thus, I became a strong
but clumsy fighting elf named Glorfindel, dedicated to the establishment of law and order. I was armed and then plopped
into Tom's dungeon, where I immediately began to search for hidden doors. After lots of dice-rolling, I found one and
opened it. To my surprise, I found a pile of treasure guarded by two vicious—oh no!—orcs. I managed to kill
one, but I'd been wounded. The dialogue between the Dungeon Master and myself went as follows:

DM: You've only got one hit point left. You'd better finish off this orc.

Me: I think I’ll counter-attack...

More dice.

DM: You missed... he has the initiative. He’s mad, ‘cause you've killed his friend!

Me: I'll parry (fend off the blow).

DM: Uh oh... did no good. You are knocked unconscious and you'll die soon from wounds unless somebody nice comes
along and heals you, but it’s very doubtful...

Me: So I’m gone?

DM: You're gone.

It was the shortest game on record, I think.

With more than one player, of course, the adventures grow larger and more complex, becoming more dependent on skill and
cunning, as Dungeon Master and players struggle to guess each other’s next move. In short, one can get entirely carried
away, even staying up all night to finish off a particularly stubborn dragon.

Besselieu warns that the game is sometimes taken too seriously, even here at Davidson. For those who live and breathe
D&D, devoting all their time and efforts to it, he feels they are missing the point. Most fans, however, are
not that obsessed.

“They play for escapism,” explains the Dungeon Master.

The opportunity to leave reality behind for an evening and embark upon a fantastic, unique adventure in another world is,
he feels, the real appeal of the game. Players become characters with traits and tactics that might totally contradict their
normal personalities, just to be “outrageous.” It’s a temporary escape into the imagination, not unlike a dark evening spent in
front of a TV watching old “Twilight Zone” reruns.

One of the most unusual things about D&D is that it’s never the same, but always changes with each player's
fantasies, moods, and feelings.

Final words of Cindy Perry’s Elven Wizard, Anandas: “May the gods be with us, for no man knows what the
morrow will bring. Or Elf, either.”
