Davidson’s Intercollegiate Sailing Team initiated their spring season last weekend with a second-place overall finish in a regatta hosted by
the University of Virginia on Lake Monticello. Old Dominion University captured first place in the team standings, Davidson was second,
and UVA finished third.

Cat sailors included skippers Ned Greer and Don Rose and freshman crew members Mort Ames and Bill Bankhead. Greer skippered
Davidson’s entry in the A Division to a 2nd place finish, which was also Rose’s place finish in the B
Division.

The UVA Regatta was a points regatta; the top four teams after the regular season races advance to the championship
regatta. (Davidson competes in a six-team division.)

Next weekend the team travels to Kerr Lake for races hosted by Duke University and in two weeks Davidson will
be the home school for a Lake Norman Regatta. —VAN BECK

Women’s Tennis

The Women’s Tennis Team, now sporting a 7-2 record, added two more wins to its list this past week. On
Monday in a close match against Presbyterian College, the Cats played excellent doubles which tilted the score in their favor.
The match against UNC-Charlotte Tuesday was an easy win with the girls sweeping in the singles.

Coach Pat Miller warns, however, that this week holds some tough matches: “Guilford, whom the girls play tomorrow, is an
aggressive team with some good players.” Scheduled for early next week are two other strong teams: High Point and Furman.

While Miller is pleased with the Cats’ performance, she is anxious about the coming matches and frustrated by the lack
of practice time. She complains that they've only had “two outdoor practices due to the bad weather!” Despite this, she
is optimistic and says that the girls are working hard to reach the Regionals on May 9 and 10. —NINA
BROOME

Davidson Relays

Whittle Track will be the site of the 21st Annual Davidson Relays, scheduled for Saturday, April 5th. The Relays, sponsored
by the Wildcat Club and directed by Sterling Martin, will feature top men’s and women’s track teams from colleges throughout
the South, Mid-Atlantic, and East Coast regions.

Thirty men’s teams, including last year’s overall winner Virginia Tech, are tentatively entered for Saturday’s competition. Other perennially strong track
schools to watch include: Duke University, Johnson C. Smith University, Towson State University, Wake Forest University, North Carolina A&T, and
Appalachian State University. Fourteen teams are scheduled for the women’s competition. Duke, Johnson C. Smith, N.C. A&T, Appalachian State, and
Virginia Tech can be expected to field strong teams.

The 10,000-meter event, set for 8:45 a.m., will be the first competition of the day with the mile relay finishing
things up at 4:50 p.m. Admission is free for all students. —VAN BECK

BARBER STYLING 892-1933

20% off on all styles for men and women for the entire month of April with this coupon.

Featuring:
Precision Hair Cuts
Razor Cuts
Main St., Cornelius (across from Western Auto)

The Tonsure

Beard Design

SMITH’S FLOWERS

302 SMITH CIRCLE 892-8856
CORNELIUS

COLLEGE NIGHT

PIZZA SPECIAL

This Thursday

5:00 - 7:30

All the pizza you can eat $3.25
Pitchers $1.75

— DELIVERIES —

8:30 - 11:00
Every day of the week
$5.00 MINIMUM
50¢ DELIVERY CHARGE

892-8686

MAIN ST., DAVIDSON

SPECIALTIES OF THE HOUSE

THE GEORGE INN

Tender Corned Beef piled high with creamy cole slaw, Russian dressing, topped with cheese on our special onion roll.

Corned Beef, Russian dressing, kraut, Swiss cheese, spicy mustard on rye served hot.

HOT WHEAT

A mound of Roast Beef, bell peppers, and onions, topped with provolone cheese on fresh whole wheat bread.

Chopped barbecue seasoned with barbecue sauce on a hoagie roll.

FALCON’S FEAST

Ham, Beef, Corned Beef, Pastrami, and Turkey with cheese, lettuce, tomato, and onions on a hoagie roll.

Mushrooms and bell peppers covered with provolone cheese served hot with lettuce or tomato.

Sweet Italian sausage covered with tangy tomato sauce and topped with pure Mozzarella Cheese melted on a hoagie roll.

SINATRA

With tomato sauce and topped with pure Mozzarella Cheese on a hoagie roll.
