10—The Davidsonian—December 12, 1980

Bricks & Doughs spread gossip and report girl's flickerball championships

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

Due to a typographical error, three paragraphs reporting on the girls' flickerball championship were omitted from last week’s column. Unfortunately, the same error is occurring in this column...

...In its continuing effort to duplicate a high school, Davidson College, with its classes that meet every day, has removed one week from our Christmas vacation. Remember what it was like starting school still hungover from New Year’s Eve? Don’t be late to homeroom...

...Once again, the big DC is gunning for the Southern Conference Sportsmanship Award. So change all the “ABUSE” towels to “HELLO” towels, invite visiting teams to become intimate with your grandmother and keep up that weak attendance at games. And another thing—when you do go—don’t cheer, just smile. It was once said that if there was a Southern Conference Beauty Pageant, Davidson would win Miss Congeniality...

...At last count, two freshmen, three coeds, one police scooter, and one local screwball have fallen into THE BIG PIT otherwise known as the Commons. President Oblivious stated that he thought the PIT was being dug to bury all of the bedded in his right parietal lobe. His graffiti-ridden tombstone will be in the shape of the SAE jukebox and “He’s So Shy” will be heard continuously. Krotchmouth is this year's John Lennon Award winner.

...Well, the SPE’s and the FIJI’s have finished their rush according to rush chairmen Brer Rabbit and Tarbaby. They have removed all the dregs leaving the other fraternities a bumper crop from which to choose.

...In case you haven't heard, the KA's lost to the SPE's in flickerball. The KA’s claimed that the SPE’s swiped their away. The game was proclaimed “the best on the court” and now “everyone wants to go KA.”

IMAC basketball has begun and most of the good teams blew out everyone in their first game. The Phi Delt team, Cool Breeze, will be real tough to beat, especially on the boards. These guys can play and show no mercy. We feel sorry for the guys but should be all right if they can cut down on their turnovers and sloppy play. Lapple can shoot with anyone in the league and Stork can dunk over Sequoias. Waddill would be pretty good if he could keep his mind off Jane Alexanian.

In Instant Grits, the PiKA’s finally have a respectable athletic team. These guys are good even if Whiteside’s shoes do suck. Gray Hampton can shoot and David Barkley adds power on the boards. We Know We're Pathetic is a potpourri of bona-fide blue chippers. Hill is the quickest man in the world and Burton can leap. They have already beaten the Blue Jazz because Mott McDonald didn’t shoot enough.

Eric “Steroid” Sorensen is still IMAC’s largest human and he can play, but is he enough?

The Old Men are ranked because we didn’t know the names of any other teams. Enough IMAC; that’s not what this column is about anyway. We use it to carry out our personal vendettas.

Top Ten
1) Cool Breeze
2) Fido and the Rear Entries
3) Instant Grits
4) We Know We're Pathetic
5) Sorensen and Those Guys (Blue Jazz)
6) Old Men
7) Phi Q Both
8) Bottom Liners
9) Ain’t She It
10) The Amazons on 4th Rich

BARGER CONSTRUCTION
“Good Builders Since 1925”

M.A. Wicker
384 N. Main Street
P.O. Box 30
Mooresville, NC 28115
892-8690

WANTED: Adventurous Companion with ‘take-charge’ potential.

Gain leadership development through exciting adventure training courses on campus.

Experience physical and mental challenges as you learn to lead. Develop your confidence and initiative.

If you've got leadership potential and are willing to perform under pressure in an environment of adventure and excitement, call:

Cpt. Neil Touchet
892-2000 ext 170

@ Army ROTC
Learn what it takes to lead.