(Continued from page 1)

Professor William Frey, a Finance Council member, said he agreed with Polley. The other professors who were members of the
Council last spring—Psychology Professor John Kello, German Professor Thomas Pinkerton, and English Professor Randy Nelson—were not available for comment.

Religion Professor David Kaylor described the talk about the $85,000 cut last spring as “very misleading.” He said he fully
expected there to be an overall cut in athletics expenditures and felt most of his colleagues had the same impression.
Spencer insisted there was “no mystery in it and no attempt to mislead anyone.” He said the confusion arose “because
the budgeting process isn’t understood.”

“I really doubt that there was any conscious deception at all,” Polley said.

Assistant Athletic Director Thomas Couch itemized the $85,000 cut and emphasized that the athletic budget is as tight as it
can be. He listed cuts in 12 areas:

— Medical insurance, $20,000 cut. Normally, the College’s insurance policies cover all injuries to athletes. To save money there is
now an exception for football players only, since they are the most often injured. Football players must cover the first
$500 of their medical expenses by private means.
— Vehicles, $11,000 cut. In the past few years the Athletic Department traded in its two cars and van each
year; this year the Department will not. Couch pointed out that delaying the trade-in will not save much money in
the long run, for the vehicles’ value constantly depreciates.
— Stables, $10,000 cut. The Athletic Department allocated this amount from its 1979-80 budget to build horse stables at the
lake campus. The stables are virtually complete and will not receive any Athletic Department funding this year.
— Awards, $4,900 cut. Last year $5,500 was budgeted for awards and banquets. This year $589 is budgeted. Couch said
Athletic Director Eugene Bingham is thinking of getting local alumni to finance a sports banquet since the Athletic Department cannot.
— Football recruiting, $5,000 cut.
— Team equipment, $5,000 cut. This cut includes all sports except football.
— Tennis court supplies, $3,500 cut.
— Maintenance supplies, $2,500 cut. This cut includes maintenance of the pool, gym, sports equipment, and grounds used for athletics.
— Office equipment, $2,000 cut. The Athletic Department is spending nothing on office equipment this year.
— Travel for Athletic Director, $2,000 cut.
— Recruiting, $1,000 cut. This cut includes all sports except football and basketball and reduces the total amount spent on
recruiting for the minor sports to $3,300.

These cuts total about $70,000. Couch said that last spring the Athletics Department did not plan to replace Women’s Sports
Coach Susan Roberts, who left Davidson. This personnel cut brought the total to $85,000. However, Couch said, the Department soon
realized it was “impossible” to do without a replacement for Roberts and hired Coach Lisa Boyer, thereby reducing the cut
to $70,000. On the other hand, Bingham works for no compensation. This savings was not anticipated in the budget, Couch
said.

Couch and Bingham agreed that the College spends the minimum amount necessary to finance its athletics policies. “I don’t think
there’s another school in the country that does it any cheaper than we do,” Couch said. “I don’t think it’s
possible.”

Davidson said a $71,800 increase in wages and a $3,500 increase in benefits (such as medical insurance) were budgeted for
Athletics Department personnel in 1980-81. These compensation increases erased the $70,000 in actual budget cuts (note that the proposed cut
of Robert’s former job is not included) and caused the overall Athletic budget to rise. The Athletics Department’s personnel’s salary
hikes were in line with the increase awarded to all College faculty and staff.Before liberty will end up with neither
equality nor liberty. But the society which aims first for liberty will end up not with equality but with a
closer approach to equality than any other kind of system that’s ever been developed.” Articles on money; it’s been an
ongoing theme.

Purcell: There are a couple of other issues that haven’t been exhausted yet. There’s still some room for debate and
inquiry into the tenure situation, I think. There are also still lots of unanswered questions about self-selection; it may not
become a news item, but it needs to be made one. As a means of tying your thoughts together, would
each of you briefly and concisely state your reasons for running?

Kiss: I think we’ve already established that The Davidsonian is a very important organization for building this community, for recognizing
the strengths and weaknesses of the College. On a more personal level, at the risk of sounding cliché, The Davidsonian
is in my blood. I’m running because I care about this school; I think I could do a good job.
It would be my contribution to this college community. I can’t imagine not working for The Davidsonian; I’ve done it
ever since I’ve been here. It’s become sometimes a bigger part of my life than some of my classes.

Siman: I really believe in The Davidsonian. Out of all the things students can do to help influence college policy,
and out of all the things we can do to make Davidson a better place, it’s through The Davidsonian. If
The Davidsonian is accurate, if it takes good reasonable stands, it’s something people will and have to listen to. The
Davidsonian takes precedence over any of my classes.

Purcell: Well, I’m not in love with the paper. I’m a Davidson person; I believe in Davidson. I think there’s
a lot good about it, and there are a lot of problems people need to know about. I think I
have some good insight into these areas. This is a good way for me to approach them.

Soracco: I’ve enjoyed working for the paper, and that’s one reason I’d want to do more. I’ve seen it improve,
but I think there’s more room for improvement and I'd like to help it make that leap. I’d like to
see it meet its (Continued from page 1) contributors’ pledges will be matched two for one. One-third of the 789
pledges have come from new donors, and one new donor pledged $1000. Sophomore McNair Helm, Kelly, and Derek Harbin said,
“Everybody’s just astounded at the kind of turnout we’ve had.” Student volunteers have finished calling the classes of 1970-1980. This
group was targeted because the percentage of alumni from those classes who contribute is low. Callers are now contacting alumni
who graduated as early as 1950.

WDSR (Continued from page 1): “We’re hoping we can boost the signal,” Berson said. He also hopes in the long
run to extend broadcasts to the eating houses, which are on a separate electrical system. Berson stressed WDSR’s potential as
an outlet for student creativity. The station allows its disc jockeys maximum freedom on the air—that’s the beauty of the
situation. For example, students may ad-lib humorous comments. Last month students held one disc jockey hostage. The disc jockey was
released when the captor’s demands for beer and cookies were met. WDSR’s staff includes General Manager John Odell, Programming Director
Will Berson, Treasurer Gary Sullivan, Scheduling and Personnel Director Johnny Edwards, and Promotion Director James Altizer.

(Continued from page 9): His first three-point goal from 22 feet out. Davidson, surely in disbelief over the sudden twist
of fate, called a time-out with 21 seconds left. Upon the resumption of play, Hall fouled Marshall’s Sam Henry, who
blew the first end of the one-and-one free throw. Davidson had the ball, and with 12 seconds remaining Jamie Hall
sunk a lay-up for the tying point 65-65 at the end of regulation play. In the first overtime, Marshall’s George
Washington started things off with a tremendous dunk; the Cats, however, were not intimidated as Todd Haynes fired up two
jumpers and Richie D. tied the first overtime score at 71-71 with his lay-up from the left side. The second
overtime was dominated by the unrelenting Davidson team which scored eight points compared to only two for the Thundering Herd.
With the score tied 73-73, Richie D. left the game after being called on an offensive foul, his fifth. A
field goal and four crucial free throws by Haynes and two clutch free throws by freshman John Gullickson put Davidson
up for good, 79-73.
