S— The Davidsonian—September 19, 1980

Sports

Veterans bolster hockey

By ANNE HOCKETT
Staff Writer

Field hockey is a team sport and for all involved it means a serious commitment both of time and energy.
The game requires stamina, speed, flexibility, and the ability to adjust and re-adjust spontaneously. Hockey as a women's sport is
relatively new to the Davidson campus, yet the team’s optimism, enthusiasm, and overall success rank with any other school in
the Carolinas.

Sixteen players returned for pre-season camp—an extensive week of conditioning and stick work. Since then the addition of three more
players has pushed the number to 19, making this year’s team the largest ever. Returning seniors Barb Ashley, Lisa Ballantyne,
Sally Craig, and Cathy Inabnet are expected to be an integral part of the 1980 team. Carol Heppner, last year’s
Deep South pick, returns with fellow sophomores Amy Crittenberger, Beth Davidson, and Cathy Morrel. The addition of two new sophomores,
Mebane Atwood and Mitzi Short, is expected to help the team defensively. Katie Dagerhart and Courtney Hall, Deep South picks
for their high schools, bring the total number of freshman players to eight. The nineteenth player is Wendy Rider, a
senior transfer.

Coach Mayes, a 1978 graduate from Ithaca College and an outstanding student-athlete herself, feels confident that this year’s team has
the necessary elements for a successful season. The schedule is a challenging one, but Davidson looks forward to a good
showing in the State tournaments and hopefully a chance to compete in Regionals. Coach Mayes emphasized, “the team is strong.”
Offensively, three veteran line players, two experienced links, and the support of veteran Amy Crittenberger at center half are expected
to unify play around the goal. The first scrimmage is Thursday at 4:00. The first home game is October 1.

Sports Calendar

Saturday, September 20
10:00 Men & Women’s Cross Country: Duke (Away)
All Day Field Hockey: Catawba Sports Day (Away)
1:00 Soccer: Marshall (Away)
1:30 Football: Lafayette (Home)

Wednesday, September 24
3:30 Soccer: UNC — Asheville (Home)
4:00 Field Hockey: Pfeiffer (Away)

Men win, women lose at Stone Mt.

By GORDON TRUMBULL
Staff Correspondent

Cross-country coach Sterling Martin said he looks toward the 1980 season with cautious optimism. The Wildcat Men’s and Women’s squads
opened their schedules this past weekend in dual meets at the Stone Mountain (Georgia) Road Race. The men’s team shut
out the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga (15-50) and beat Berry College (23-35). The women’s team dropped their meets against
Berry College (34-23) and a strong Georgia State squad (40-15).

Martin said that he was very pleased with the team’s performances. He commented, “Since this was a test meet to
see where everyone is in his individual training, we were rather pleased.” Martin added that there is as much depth
in the program this year as in any previous year. The addition of junior Randy McManus, a transfer from a
strong program at Buford Junior College, greatly strengthens the men’s team. McManus along with senior John Davis will hold down
the top two slots on the squad. Martin stressed the value of these two men, “This year we have two
runners who can go out and take the top spot in a race. In past years, we've lacked the person
who could win.”

Sophomore Jack Smith and senior Bart Landess will vie for the next two positions, while juniors John Rees and Danny
Armistead battle to complete the top five. The Wildcats gain valuable depth in the next four places with sophomores Dave
Stosur and Joe Sloop, and freshmen Franklin Ivey and Jim Trotter. Trotter won the 1980 Freshmen Cake Race.

Freshmen Cake Race winner Tamara Foreman, who broke the previous record by 39 seconds, will lead the women’s team. Sophomore
Marian Hill, much improved after a summer of hard work, should keep the second slot, followed by junior Carrie Nunn,
sophomore Merris Hollingsworth, and freshman Jane Thompson. Natalie Kerr, a sophomore, in her first season of cross-country, and Diane Downing,
a junior overcoming knee problems, can be counted on to improve throughout the season.

Martin cited specific goals for the men’s team in the coming season. “We hope that each individual will improve. I’d
like to see our top five have 10,000-meter times of between 31 and 33 minutes. If we could do that,
we might surprise some people.” Martin hopes his men will finish above .500 in the Southern Conference, but said “It
will take tough running. Probably every other team in the conference except UT-C is scholarship supported. But I would like
to finish fifth in the conference or better.”

Randy McManus led the men’s...squad at Stone Mountain with a 5-mile time of 25:45. He was followed by John Davis
(25:57), Jack Smith (26:43), Bart Landess (26:53), John Rees (27:14), and Danny Armistead (27:14). Tamara Foreman’s time of 33:19 led
the Wildcat women, with Marian Hill (34:13), Carrie Nunn (34:42), Merris Hollinsworth (37:02), and Jane Thompson (38:14) completing the scoring.
This Saturday the cross-country team takes on a powerful Duke team in a dual meet at Davidson. The women race
at 10 a.m., followed by the men at 11 a.m.

D.C. receives S.C. award for sportsmanship
By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

Davidson College has been named the 1980 recipient of the Southern Conference’s Col. D. S. McAlister Sportsmanship Award. Southern Conference
Commissioner Ken German made the official presentation of this first annual sportsmanship award this past Saturday during halftime of Davidson’s
season opener against Springfield College. The criteria for the award read as follows: “presented to the institution judged to have
exhibited the highest degree of sportsmanship, ethics, and courtesy among its players, coaches, and spectators in the conduct of its
athletic programs.” Athletic Directors and all head coaches for each Southern Conference school vote on the award.

(Michael Kehs)

Soccer starts on right foot
By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

The Grateful Dead, those seemingly prophetic purveyors of wisdom, offer a terse phrase about fate, “They lie where they fall.
There's nothing more to say.” New soccer coach Charlie Slagle seems to think somewhat parallel to this, although just as
the Grateful Dead surrounds the phrase with sanguine amens for a fortunate outcome, Slagle inherits a Davidson soccer team with
the potential to recover from the sluggish 8-13 record of last year. The Wildcats opened their season with back-to-back shutout
wins over Presbyterian, 3-0, and last Saturday’s 5-0 defeat of Catawba. The team dominated each contest, outshooting their opponents 80-9
in attempts at the goal, but Slagle was not ecstatic. Speaking of Presbyterian, he said, “It was not a good
first game.” “We didn’t execute well near the goal. But we won 3-0 and we’ll take it.” A bright spot
for the Cats against Catawba was the play of freshman Chris Roberts from upstate New York, who garnered three goals.
“Our whole philosophy is depth,” Slagle stated. “We’ll use 18 to 22 players each game, trying to use depth to
our advantage. We lost four guys from last year’s team, but I have a good nucleus to work with.” Slagle
noted the leadership of his three captains—Mike Iordanou, a junior goalie, Danny Robinson, another junior playing sweeper, and senior Chris
Moore at wing fullback. Notable returnees include Ben Dishman and Mark Elmore, plus a defensive unit of Jimmy Hawk, Bill
Wahl, and Alex McCauley of whom Slagle said, “could run all day.” Coming off the bench will be last year’s
two top scorers, Tom Schember and Hall Barnett. Freshman support could come from a number of players, including Roberts, and
Peter Burr. Thus far in the young season, injuries have not been a major concern in the soccer program and
conditioning seems to be on schedule. Coach Slagle said that he is “not a believer in being in peak condition
for the first game.” He prefers to delay the peak until mid-season in hopes of better surviving the grueling 9-week
schedule. Taking over the reins from Karl Kremser, last year’s coach who was ousted for reasons including “personality conflicts,” could
easily pose problems of reorganizing team strategy and lineups. Slagle doesn’t feel that any major problems exist, noting only that
he feels he has “a lot looser personality.” “The main difference is at practice. But the general philosophy is the
same. We’re still playing man-to-man defense. I have coached it before, so it’s easier for me to adapt to the
system than to change the way they are used to playing.” Slagle hesitated somewhat at predicting a record for the
year other than “hopefully winning.” With regard to the Southern Conference, however, he was willing to be more definite. Realistically,
Slagle believes the Cats are “striving for second, hopefully first.” Appalachian State has held the top spot in the conference
for several years, and although he would “love to beat Appy,” Davidson’s best chances lie with turning around narrow defeats
to other opponents. “Our goal is to beat the teams we lost to by a goal last year, the Citadels
and the VMI’s,” Coach Slagle emphasized. He is a believer that Davidson can get the wins it is capable of,
and hopes that things could fall into place against Appalachian. If some good omens bear fruit, the season could fall
in such a way that “winning” is all that needs to be said.
