(Continued from page 1) substantive adverse effect.” Dittman said his leaving would “‘undeniably cause an interruption in the momentum” of the 1987 Program, adding, “but there are enough people working on it that I hope Davidson will not be hurt.” “It’s been an agonizing decision to leave since I love Davidson and have invested a piece of my life in it,” Dittman said, “but the offer and the opportunity (at William and Mary) were just too good to resist.” Especially appealing in William and Mary's offer, Dittman said, was an assurance of opportunities to do independent consulting work.

(Continued from page 1) facilities.” Because the administration decided to make Cartmill a physical education professor after he stepped down as Athletic Director effective in August, he and Martin worked out a reshuffling of their responsibilities. Cartmill will help develop the new sports complex and direct the movement of the riding program to the lake campus.

(Continued from page 1) A stereo receiver worth about $200 was stolen from the Sig Ep House Sunday afternoon, April 21, according to Sig Ep President Gregg Smart. Theft in general is increasing in Davidson, Mills said. Automobile batteries, car speakers, and bicycles are the most common objects of theft. There have also been two major larcenies in town homes recently. The police have advised local pawn shops to be on the lookout for the stolen stereo equipment, Mills said. He doubts that the same person or group is responsible for both crimes. A groupie of the band Badge, who performed at Spring Frolics, may have stolen the money from Turnburke and Coleman. The band’s agent reimbursed them for their lost money, for he felt the groupie was the likely thief. Police have not yet found the woman.

(Continued from page 1) Lee, who became Development Officer two years ago, worked with major gift prospects in the 1987 Program. The offer from Queens College, Lee said, is “an extraordinary opportunity for someone my age.” His position as Vice President will mean professional advancement and a larger salary. “I have very good feelings about Queens,” Lee said, “My wife is a student there, and we're both native Charlotteans.” Although he was “not even looking for a new job,” Lee added, the Queens offer was “too good an opportunity to pass up.” At Queens, Lee will replace Davidson alumnus Joe Martin who unexpectedly resigned to work at North Carolina National Bank.

Covington, who has worked at Davidson since December 1978, said he always knew he would eventually go to seminary “somewhere down the line.” Dittman said his biggest satisfaction from working at Davidson came from getting the 1987 Program “on track.” “To be able to count almost 14 million dollars in commitments and gifts in 3 years, and to pull together and train a staff has been a personal satisfaction for me.” “Every job has frustrations,” Dittman added, “but my Davidson experience was a happy one.” If he could change anything about Davidson, Dittman said, he would perhaps enlarge the administrative staff. “Davidson is understaffed administratively—the staffing is incredibly thin in comparison to our ambitions,” he said, pointing out the Deans’ offices as particularly overworked.

His major concern, however, Dittman said, is for the Davidson community. “It grieves me when people are unkind to each other in this community,” he said, “creating factions of the Trustees, faculty, administration, and students. At a time when higher education is suspect in the outside world such factions ought to pull together.”

(Continued from page 2) Trustees reorganize businesses and institutions in this decade will put demands upon small private colleges like Davidson. However, the Trustees are committed to maintaining Davidson as a “small community of learners.” The Trustees have also elected to “emphasize the teaching responsibility of all professors, and to ensure the opportunity for personal relationships between students and teachers.” Cunningham noted that the Trustees are generally Davidson graduates or are people with an “educational interest.” The Trustees are also committed to maintaining Davidson’s status as a college of liberal arts. They have the responsibility of “building an institution which, with increasing effectiveness, serves the educational needs of its students.”

Focus on Seniors

A great many nice students and faculty members make attending the College worthwhile and enjoyable. One bad aspect of college life that Eglin said is improving due to measures taken by the College is overcrowding. Eglin said it is important to encourage more people to “get out and experience aspects of Davidson other than academics.” Eglin’s advice for those of us who will remain here next year is to “balance academics with other activities,” not limiting yourself to “one phase” of the experiences Davidson has to offer. Plans for next year are...For Eglin, somewhat uncertain. She said she plans to return home to Atlanta in June to "sponge off" her parents for a while and then take the time to find an enjoyable career.

"Effectiveness can serve students today and tomorrow," according to the Danforth Commission report. It is the task of Davidson Trustees to create a liberal arts institution that fulfills this role. The College should seek to "teach students to think clearly and accurately, to make relevant and valid judgments, to discriminate among values, and to communicate freely with others in the realm of ideas."

Until ten years ago, the average Trustee did not have a large role in decision-making, according to Spencer. The Executive Committee used to meet in advance and present their recommendations to the general Trustee body, Spencer said. "The whole Board would then rubber-stamp (the decision) the next day," Spencer said. The Trustees then adopted a policy whereby a group of committees would report "directly to the whole board," Spencer said. "Some of the current committees are the Executive Committee, Athletics and Physical Education, Building and Grounds, Development and Alumni, Education, Finance and Management, Religious Policy and Program, Student Life and Health, Honorary Degrees, Nominating, and Resolutions."

"May 2, 1980—The Davidsonian—11 (Continued from page 1) team’s recommendations on Davidson’s athletic program are released," Maydole said. (Three athletic directors came to Davidson in April to evaluate College athletic policy.) "We can’t say much about what (physical education) is going to do until we know what the other 95% (of the athletics department) is going to do," Physics Professor Lawrence Cain said. However, Maydole said, "We ought to be defining parameters—not waiting (for someone else to do it)."

"We haven’t been asked to advise on anything," Maydole added. "I seem to be the only one on the committee who thought there was something to do." Zimmermann said it was "natural" for the Council to be inactive for long periods of time. He likened the Council to (Continued from page 3) problems and laxity which have resulted from STEP tutors bringing their charges on campus and into dorms. MacCormac said the town is "on the verge" of choosing what facilities it wants and can pay for. James Raeford, who has just finished serving on the Park and Recreation Committee, said in reference to a proposed park, "We need more facilities, but where are you going to put it?" He said the basic problem comes back to land, to trying to find a centrally located place for facilities that can be developed permanently.

Role in Town Govt. Along with Davidson College’s important role in land development, housing, employment, and recreation, it has been prominent in town government. MacCormac said that though the town tries to balance the various communities in the area, it values the cooperation and relationship with the College. She said the area as a whole tends to balance the town board on its own. Traditionally, the College has had two representatives on the Board, but now it has only one—Economics Professor Randy Kincaid. However, Salinda Mayhew, Annie Mildred Lowry, and others all echoed Daisy Raeford, who said, "I still say that whatever they want they go ahead and get it," though she said communication has improved between the College and the black community. Lowry attributes apathy in the black community to too much college involvement in town affairs. "Too many college professors and their wives are taking the town over. They come and do it their way without understanding what's gone before. On all the committees, it’s college people. Now blacks don’t even bother coming to the meetings because they wouldn’t get what they wanted anyway."

James Raeford acknowledged the College’s power, but he didn’t think it was unusual. "Look at it like this: in any college town the college is powerful, because it means a lot to the town and to the community." Though the black community has some representation and organization, the Delburg Street area has been "more placid," according to Mayhew. She said they have no power and "just aren’t motivated to take part." She felt there is little or no communication between the College and Delburg Street residents. "We’re on the wrong side of the tracks for the College, I think that’s the way people feel."

Traditionally, the College has been active in providing services to the whole community. Mayhew recalled the years when Davidson College provided food and medicine to needy families in the Mill Village. Now "you have Medicare, Medicaid, government programs, there’s not the need for college support." In fact, the College has in recent years been withdrawing from the town and its previous dominant role. One example is the separation of the campus security force that occurred three years ago. The College and the town are both more satisfied now according to Cook, MacCormac, and Lowry.

Real Change Both the College and the community have changed.