The SGA announced this week that it will auction off 26 unclaimed bicycles on October 15 at 10:00 a.m. unless their owners claim them beforehand.

(Continued from page 1)

"second class citizens" in relation to the academic faculty.

— The College should either raise more money to relieve the inadequate staffing and financing of minor sports or examine some minor sports, particularly wrestling, golf, track, and riding for viability.

Earlier, the committee had recommended that the College remain in the Southern Conference. Athletic Advisory Council Chairman David Shi said these two statements are contradictory since Southern Conference regulations require a school to have a minimum of 12 sports in Division IA to maintain IA status. Davidson now has exactly the required 12, and therefore cannot cut a men’s minor sport without losing conference membership.

— The College should establish ceilings on the number of contests per season in particular sports, as well as emphasize late afternoon and weekend scheduling which does not conflict with classes.

— The intramural program should receive continued strong support. Because of the degree of student involvement in intercollegiate and intramural athletics, however, the physical education program may be reduced if resources are scarce.

The report received a mixed reaction. College President Samuel Spencer and Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman sent the original copy back in May with a request for elaboration of arguments. "We felt they left a lot of unanswered questions," Spencer said.

Spencer and Athletic Director Eugene Bingham declined to comment on the content of the final report. Athletic Advisory Council Chairman David Shi said the report "pinpointed problems" but "didn’t give many answers." Council member Louis Ortmayer pointed out that the report was in many ways a "pat on the back" for athletics and reflected the "professional and personal interests" of the committee members, all of whom are involved with athletics. The Council had urged earlier in the year that the evaluation be conducted by people from all areas of college life. "The concerns some of us had when we learned what the composition of the team was (all athletic directors)," Shi said, "have been borne out."

The Tonsure
BARBER STYLING
992-1933
featuring:
Precision Hair Cuts
Razor Cuts
Perms
Coloring
Blow-Drying
Beard Design
20% Discount for all styles with a valid student I.D.
shampoo - cut - dry through Oct. 31
Main St., Cornelius

Throughout the report, Shi said, there is "an indication that the institution and the Wildcat Club are not supporting the athletic program adequately." Wildcat Club Executive Director Sandy Carnegie, although he praised the report, commented, "We do contribute (to the athletic program) to the extent we’ve been asked (by the athletic department) to contribute."

Ortmayer said he agreed with the report’s strong emphasis on women’s sports but disagreed with the recommendation to provide scholarships. "Most women athletes (at Davidson) don’t want scholarships."

As a prescription for change, the report is "helpful in some respects" but "disappointing" overall, according to Shi. Any new directions taken, Ortmayer predicted, will be in women’s sports and fundraising. In his closing comments, committee member Peters wrote, "I see Davidson as a prestige institution of higher education, and athletics as an integral part of higher education. Anything less than our report recommends would relegate Davidson to something less than preeminence and would be inconsistent."

A copy of the report is available at the library reserve desk.

(Continued from page 7)

"I think Garry had the impression that I had already said yes," Carlton says. "He thought the meeting was just to iron out the technicalities. It turned out that he was nothing like I'd thought he'd be. Within 15 minutes we shook hands. I had committed myself."

The two spent weeks going over the characters’ features and the fine points of the strip before Carlton was rushed into action when Trudeau's studies began piling up. "The first one was pretty bad," he says. "It was a year before I was comfortable with it. But now it comes second nature."

September 19, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

(Continued from page 1)

town merchants would have "sufficient impetus" for "dressing up" the downtown area, thereby making it more attractive to prospective merchants, MacCormac said.

One reason for a revitalization plan is the Town Council’s decision to keep the downtown area the "center of the village," rather than allowing businesses to spread throughout the community.

(Continued from page 1)

quality of the station. The station may also expand to serve eating houses in about two years, Odell said. Odell stressed the important need for student help at WDSR — andsaid students without radio (Continued from page 1) Athens at Davidson. We need a little more Sparta... Games are simulators of life situations... That’s the justification of intercollegiate athletics." He gestured towards a plaque featuring a Roman Centurion and read from its creed, “...to equip his men for victory...” This is how Bingham’s Athletic Department will strive to serve students.

Bingham’s office is filled with plaques and mementos. He uses them to illustrate his philosophy and highlight his life. One wall shows him as a student-athlete. In 1941, he entered Davidson on a football scholarship, one of the first such scholarships the College awarded. His Davidson career was interrupted by four years in the naval air corps, after which he played another year of football before injury forced him to limit himself to track. Below the sports photos are an ODK certificate and a 1949 diploma. “The goal is to get the excellent education.” Bingham explained that he owed his Davidson experience to his football scholarship. It and money from the G.I. Bill helped pay the fees his coal miner father couldn’t afford. A scholarship meant he could compete against the students who came from the best prep schools—and often “beat them at their own game.”

On the opposite wall is a print of a ship—“a square rigger under full sail. The set of the sail determines course and speed.” Bingham said he looked for a “positive set of the sail” to symbolize the optimist’s ability to find “opportunity in difficulty.” The pessimist, according to Bingham, finds “difficulty in opportunity.”

One opportunity the College has is to mold upstanding alumni. Bingham described them as “students in the classroom, gentlemen and good citizens on the campus, and Spartans on the fields of competition.” Those who would emphasize classroom priorities at the expense of athletics, Bingham said, limit the Davidson education. Sports like football “simulate real life situations” by demanding “commitment” by participants. “I can't empathize with professors (who have called for cuts in football spending),” Bingham said. Football costs around $250 thousand per year—“two and a quarter percent of the budget. That’s not asking too much for Sparta,” he said. But, he later added, “Some people never go out into the real world.”

Bingham does not doubt his Davidson education prepared him for the “real world”—including further military service in Korea, a teaching job at Purdue, and a leadership position at Lincoln National Life Insurance. Crippling arthritis forced Bingham into early retirement from Lincoln four years ago—and into a wheelchair. Fortunately, extensive medical treatments have allowed Bingham to regain most of his mobility. On a disability pension and bored with retirement, Bingham expressed an interest to Trustee Perrin Anderson several months ago about moving to the Davidson area and helping out with College fundraising. When College President Samuel Spencer called Bingham in early August, Bingham “was shocked.” His business experience, he thought, might make him a likely candidate for a position in Development—but he never considered running the Athletic Department.

Bingham is technically “on loan” to Davidson from Lincoln Insurance and consequently receives no salary (He does collect a pension from Lincoln). He describes his new job as “a lot more fun” and “more meaningful” than his long “ministry” in life insurance. Bingham said the “happiest four years of my life were spent here on this campus,” but noted that Davidson today is “different than when I was here. We didn’t have all this heat and divisiveness.” The school is too much characterized by “poor communications” among different groups.

During the interview, Bingham got up to retrieve a “Peanuts” comic strip he had saved. In it, Snoopy is complimented on his good behavior and laments that dogs are only praised when they do nothing. Bingham thinks the same is true of athletic directors. “I'm going to get a lot of criticism around here because I'm going to do a lot,” he said.