2—The Davidsonian—March 21, 1980

Dorsett runs for SGA veep alone

By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Sophomore Stuart Dorsett is the sole candidate for SGA Vice President in the upcoming elections. Dorsett, an economics major, is
presently a sophomore Senator.

The overriding issue facing the SGA, according to Dorsett, is the need to take a “more practical” approach. “We must
approach problems we have the ability to solve.” The success of SGA depends on “how effective it is in relaying
its views to the Trustees and administration,” Dorsett said.

The role of the Vice President, Dorsett explained, is largely determined by the President, since the constitutional powers of the
Vice President are vague. However, he added, “I think (the Vice President) can take a very active role.”

Dorsett cited student involvement in development, as well as continuation of the Trustee Contact Committee and organization of rides to
the airport as viable programs for SGA next year.

Stuart Dorsett

Hodding Carter (Stephen Enniss)

(Continued from page 1)

1) Strengthening the NATO alliance
2) Reversing the ten-year trend toward declining defense
3) Negotiating a new SALT treaty
4) Achieving peace between Egypt and Israel, countries that have not known true friendship since 1948.
5) Continuing the efforts begun by the Nixon-Kissinger administration toward normalizing relations with China.

A second theme of Carter’s speech concerned the rising tide of negativism and disillusionment in this country which he referred
to as the “aftershock syndrome.” Carter made it clear that he was not a prophet of “gloom and doom,” but
admitted that America has experienced significant challenges.

“We are the Americans who are existing after Watergate, after the first lost war in American history—Vietnam—and after the loss
of consensus on international and domestic policy... Disillusionment with our nation’s institutions is at an all-time high, and our confidence
in our nation’s leadership at an all-time low.”

Carter went on to say that our present cynicism stems from the nature of our involvement with the Soviet Union.
In the past, when we have not had complete victory in our conflicts with Russia, when we did not roll
back the Iron Curtain in Eastern Europe, when we did not repel the Soviet presence in Iraq, our actions have
been labeled as total and irreversible defeat. What we failed to realize, according to Carter, is that “in the world
in which we do our business there are no final victories.” The American people must realize the long-term nature of
containing the spread of communism.

Carter first addressed the crisis in Iran in a question and answer session that followed his formal presentation. When asked
to explain why the repeated warnings of embassy officials against admitting the Shah into this country were ignored by the
State Department, Carter argued that such an unprecedented breach of international law could not have been anticipated. In allowing the
taking of hostages, the Iranian government violated the “one fundamental law of diplomatic relations,” a law that has been universally
accepted by every country in modern times, including the “Nazi butchers.” That law is that the diplomatic personnel of any
country must be protected by the host administration.

“No matter how it may feel about our policies, every country must protect the diplomatic personnel that are accredited to
it... there was absolutely no reporting to suggest that the Iranian government was suddenly going to reverse both international responsibility
and Islamic law and suddenly allow the taking of hostages.”

Concerning the Soviet entry into Afghanistan, Carter argued that the expansion of Russia outside its borders could not have been
prevented without...

Robinson gets Watson fellowship

By PETE JONES
Staff Writer

Senior Carol Robinson was recently named one of 70 recipients of a Watson Fellowship. The $8000 fellowship is given to
graduating seniors in the U.S. interested in pursuing a year-long project of their own invention. Foreign travel and study are
recommended.

Robinson will go to Munich in November to work for six months at The Max Planck Institute. She plans to
conduct neurophysiological research with special emphasis on primate research and child psychiatry.

Later, she plans to continue research in Cambridge and Oxford. If time and money permit, she will also work in
France.

Robinson, who is a physiological psychology major in the Center for Special Studies, will attend graduate school after she finishes
her project. Her long-range goal is to work with therapy for children with brain damage and neurological disorders, for example,
autistic and mentally retarded children.

This year, 40 colleges participated in the Watson Fellowship competition. The 70 winners were chosen from 170 final applicants.the risk
of nuclear war. “We recognized the fact that there was never going to be a way to physically repel an
invasion... but we did everything that a prudent nation could do to deal with that unprecedented step by the Soviet
Union of sending troops outside its own borders for the first time in thirty-five years.” The policy of the State
Department, according to Carter, is to ensure that the Soviets pay a high price for their continued presence in Afghanistan.
Carter ended his talk with a generally optimistic outlook for the future. He stressed the need to recognize that the
United States no longer commands the same authority it did following the Second World War. “We no longer live in
a world where we can snap our fingers and expect others to dance.” It is becoming increasingly important, according to
Carter, that we learn to take the considerations of other countries more seriously. Carter stressed the importance of the Third
World in the future of American foreign policy: “While global problems, old alliances, and military might are all important, it
is equally important that we develop relationships with what we loosely call the Third World... that vast majority of mankind
which is neither within the Communist bloc nor our own, which is the repository not only of people, but of
resources vital to itself and to the rest of the world.” Is respect abroad dwindling? All my life I have
thought the U.S. is losing its position internationally... (but) we remain the preeminent leader of the non-Communist world.”

News At A Glance

Commons
No groundbreaking date has been set for the new dining Commons, according to Director of Physical Plant Grover Meetze. Meetze
said the Commons will be ready by the fall of 1981. Originally, construction was slated to begin this month. Due
to rising building costs, the college is still negotiating to adjust the price. Meetze said more information about construction should
be released next week. —ROY FULLER

Athletic Evaluation
An athletic evaluation team will be on campus April 9 and 10 to investigate athletic policies and make recommendations. The
team will consist of Nan Nichols from Wooster College, Eugene Corrigan from the University of Virginia, and Sever Peters from
Dartmouth College. All three are the athletic directors of their respective schools.

Committees on Women and Minorities
Two campus-wide committees, one on women and the other on minorities, were appointed this week by College President Samuel Spencer.
The committees, composed of administration, faculty, and students, will make reports at the end of each academic year. Spencer cited
concern for meeting the needs of women students and Davidson's “unimpressive” record in recruiting minority students as reasons for appointing
the committees. In fifteen years, he pointed out, the number of minority students has only risen from seven to forty.

Assistant to the President
The position of Assistant to the President for 1980-81 will be available to a graduating senior. Interested students should talk
to John Cunningham in Chambers 112 for information on the job and application procedure as soon as possible.

Admissions Weekend
The SGA is sponsoring an admissions weekend for accepted applicants from Thursday, March 27th to Saturday, March 29th. The purpose
of the weekend is to give prospective freshmen a chance to look over Davidson and to meet students and staff.
The SGA is encouraging students to get involved in the admissions weekend. Coffee and Cokes will be held Friday at
10:00 a.m. so prospective students can attend. The SGA will also hold an activities period in front of Chambers Friday
at 2:00 p.m. Frisbee golf will be one of the events.

President Spencer to Germany
College President Samuel Spencer has been appointed to the Board of Foreign Scholarships. Spencer left Wednesday for Berlin, Germany, to
attend his first meeting of the board.

Grant for non-Union Activities
The SGA and the Union Board have given a double shot in the arm to a nondescript activities fund in
the Union. Each has contributed $300 to an already existing pool of $500. Established by the Activities Grant Foundation (AGF),
the fund's purpose is to promote programs which do not have set budgets. Ad hoc groups and persons wishing to
bring speakers and artists to campus outside regular Union and Faculty committees may also apply for funding. “If you have
an innovative, unusual or creative program, talk to us,” said Lyman Collins. The money is not available to groups already
funded by the Activities Tax Council or through other means, but for spontaneous, creative ideas, the money is there. Ideas
for consideration should be presented in writing to the AGF Board which consists of the Union Board President, SGA Vice
President, and several faculty members.

AIDA DOSS
Land House Gallery
CUSTOM FRAMING-- ART SUPPLIES
Escher Posters are in
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
305 MAIN STREET
892-3005
