December 12, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Top intramural Bowlers prepare for ‘81 on 2nd intercollegiate team

By JEFF HERRIN
Features Editor

“Who was King Zog?” “How many light-years in a parsec?” “What is 103 stories high, has 17 elevators, 3000 windows, and bites you on the neck?” “Do you give up yet?”

The above is a sampling of the queries which face the average competitor when he sits down behind a buzzer in what has become one of Davidson’s most renowned “sports,” College Bowl. Everyone probably has heard via all the publicity surrounding Davidson’s national championship in 1979. The College Bowl competition is a “battle of brains” and the “varsity sport of the mind,” however, few people are aware of how the college bowl system works, on both a national level and in our local intramurals program.

According to Assistant Director of the Union Lyman Collins, our annual intramurals tournament is something to be proud of. He said, “on a percent participation basis, we have one of the largest college bowl [intramural] tournaments in the nation.” This year 23 teams participated, composed of over 100 students, almost ten percent of the student body. The winners of this year’s tournament, by the way, were the “Prime Evils,” composed of Eglin, Dave Roberts, Elizabeth Brazell, and Lex Alexander.

But intramural competition is not for fun alone: all players on the “official” team must come out of intramurals. This past season’s tournament was especially important since a whole new team was being picked as backup. The new team, chosen after tryouts last week, consists of Brad Mullis, Richard Page, Gordon Turnbull, and John Eglin, with alternate Marvin Overby.

Why a new team? The team participating in the nationals this year is made up entirely of seniors: Tim Newcomb, Julie Gibert, Ed Trumbull, and Bob Evans. If the College is to have an experienced team to compete next fall, they must start practicing now. The new ‘B’ team is expected to play at least four times before the end of the year in some minor matches.

College Bowl competition got its start many years ago with a man named Dan Reed, who copyrighted the idea and founded College Bowl Incorporated in New York. College Bowl Inc. is a commercial organization which makes a profit mainly by selling “packets” of questions for use in matches. In the early 60’s, College Bowl was promoted by General Electric in the famed G.E. College Bowl T.V. program. The game lost support in the late 60’s and lay dormant until the Association of College Unions International (ACUI) decided to start a revival. The ACUI then established tournaments in 16 regions, each of which will provide one team to play in the nationals. However, Davidson has already won a place in the nationals by the “short-cut” method: the team has won three consecutive CBS-Radio matches, over Vanderbilt, Rider, and University of Tennessee. Harvard, Princeton, and Wake Forest have also won a place in this manner. The next step will be the National Championships in the spring.

Among the disadvantages Davidson faces is a rule that allows universities to use up to two graduate students on their teams, giving a slight edge to schools much larger than Davidson. Most universities take advantage of this opportunity, except for Princeton and a few others. The greatest problem our team faces immediately is finding questions to practice with. HeadCoach Hansford Epes, the cook, and her cat — Shikunga School, Kenya. Assistant Coaches Bob Manning and Randy Nelson spend much of their time finding new sources of new queries. College Bowl Inc. will provide packets of questions (one packet is sufficient for one match) for $30 a packet. Obviously, this gets expensive if one hopes to do much practicing. The rest of the questions are generated by professors, coaches, and students. Oh yes, about the first three questions above: King Zog ruled Albania in the 1920s, a parsec is 3.26 light years, and the Vampire State Building bites your neck. The final question you can answer yourself. (Courtesy of Dave Keller)

The Human League rejects earthly gain
By TODD SWOFFORD
Staff Writer

Travelogue
The Human League

The Human League is a little-known synthesizer-pop band from Sheffield that has recently been making their first sounds in America. Their premier performance in New York five weeks ago and Virgin’s Travelogue have marked their exploration of synth-pop territory with success. The band got its start when two members, Martin Ware and Ian Marsh, each bought synthesizers in 1977 and formed a band called The Future. Friend Phil Oakey joined the group as a third synth player and vocalist, and the group became The Human League. Later, finding that their stage presence in live performances was generally tedious and boring, the League incorporated a slide production done by Adrian Wright to enhance the visual appeal of their live gig. Though their sounds are produced totally by synthesizers and vocals, the Human League avoids the ironic non-human pose of other electronic bands like Gary Numan and Mi-Sex.

The League’s approach to music on Travelogue is highly personal. The album is an assault of sharp electronic rhythmic and melodic sounds combined with smart and sometimes mystical lyrics. Travelogue’s sensual feast of sound begins on side one with “The Black Hit of Space.” This is a paranoid song about a record (to which the title refers) that threatens to take over and eventually stop time like a 12-inch black vinyl hole. The League undoubtedly hopes that Travelogue is such a record, and in many ways it is. The album’s production promotes an otherworldly ability to transform ordinary time and experience by substituting music and ideas that are fresh and original. The League does not operate on some disco-synthesizer formula made commercially successful by Gary Numan. The power and force of human emotion are not sacrificial here for the sake of sounding futuristic. In fact, one of the most creatively electronic songs on the album, “Dreams of Leaving,” is also one of the strongest emotionally as it expresses the feelings of a political exile who has trouble fitting into his new environment. Some instrumental works like “Toyota City” are impressionistic in nature, creating moods through the use of repetition and the interweaving of many voices around a recurring melody. But the LP’s trance-like quality is always controlled by changes in tempo and excitement.

Travelogue is a positive statement of the creative energy and vision that should be associated with much of the New Wave. And with it and one other album to their credit, the Human League has established itself along with bands that are taking in new directions, and trite as it may sound, they need the support of the record-buying public to continue. Unfortunately, critical success does not pay the bills. Travelogue is the Human League’s authentic claim on some part of the future. Hear it soon.