October 3, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Carter's Record Is His Own Worst Enemy
Randall Stroud

Preestom hath a thousand charms to show,
Which slaves howe'er contented never know.
Cowper

Beware of little expenses; a small leak will sink a great ship.
Franklin

When White House Press Secretary Jody Powell was asked what four more years of Jimmy Carter would be like, he
said they would be very much like the first four. Can the United States truly survive four more years of
record-breaking inflation and unemployment, foreign policy blunders that have seriously damaged our respect abroad, a weakened defense, and large increases
in government spending? Many people feel that another four years of Jimmy Carter will be all that’s needed to officially
sign America’s death certificate. They are right.

American voters have been given the choice between two major candidates this year. While two other names will be on
the ballot, press and public opinion surveys give both little chance for victory. Thus, the arguments here will be confined
to Mr. Reagan and Mr. Carter. If voters were to take the time to analyze Carter’s record, they would almost
surely vote for Reagan. Carter knows this and is running scared. He has recently inaugurated a new campaign tack of
mudslinging. While speaking before a group of black leaders, Carter said that Reagan’s campaign was one of “hatred” and “racism.”
Later, in a press conference that was nothing more than a free televised campaign appearance, Carter was forced to deny
these remarks. In California, Carter called the choice for President a decision between “peace and war.” White House aides were
then later forced into admitting that he had “overstated” his idea of Reagan as a warmonger. As the Wall Street
Journal so eloquently put it, “The issue this raises is not about Mr. Reagan’s mentality but about Mr. Carter’s.”

In order to best examine these two candidates, we should look at their stances on the three critical issues of
this year’s election.

The Economy
Carter has given us the worst economy since the Great Depression. Both unemployment and inflation have reached tremendous heights, a
feat thought economically impossible until Carter got the chance. Ironically, these were the very things he promised to reduce back
in 1976, and it is again no coincidence that he is making these same promises today with even greater fervor.
Reagan has some ideas for solving these problems. Tax cuts to stimulate business, combined with a reduction in the rise
of government spending, have been proven empirically to help alleviate unemployment and inflation. Many then ask why Carter hasn't taken
these steps if they are so obvious. Perhaps it is because inflation works to the government’s advantage because it provides
unlegislated tax increases against the American public. Deficit spending allows the federal government a hidden tax to help meet the
demands of special interest groups, and thus garner votes. It should be remembered that if the federal government finances its
deficit through borrowing, this money is taken out of the private sector where it could have been used to create
jobs or bolster production. It is also a tax on future dollars because of the increased debt that must eventually
be paid back. If the federal government simply prints the extra money needed, inflation increases. As we are all aware,
inflation taxes a family’s savings by reducing the buying power of those savings. In any case, the American people are
the losers under the present regime. Moreover, experts on Wall Street attribute the stock market's recent boom to the feeling
that Reagan will win in November. This clearly indicates that the American investor has faith in Reagan's economic programs, and
faith is something America has sadly lacked under the Carter administration.

Energy
A Justice Department study showed Carter's Department of Energy culpable for the long gas lines we experienced during the summer
of '79. The study found that DOE’s pricing and allocation regulations were responsible for the market's failure to alleviate the
shortages by restricting the allocation of gasoline to areas where it was most needed. Energy is certainly not one of
Carter’s strengths. Not only has his administration produced such boondoggles as the one cited above, but Carter himself has beenguilty
of sheer hypocrisy. At the summit meeting last spring, he signed an international agreement calling for government encouragement of nuclear
power to help ease dependence on OPEC oil. After returning home, however, he continued to hamper the development of nuclear
power plants. Carter has never explained this contradiction. When he took office, Carter also halted construction of a nuclear waste
reprocessing plant that was already 97% completed! This plant, if finished, would have been able to reduce nuclear waste by
96%! An outside observer would think that Carter was trying to make us totally dependent on OPEC for our energy.
Yet he continues to claim that his administration is dedicated to finding alternative sources of energy. He points to his
massive Department of Energy (which has a budget greater than the combined profits of all oil companies!) as evidence. Reagan
has the better idea: let the free enterprise system that our country was founded on handle the situation as it
always has. In other words, let American ingenuity work unhampered by that mass of mismanagement known as the federal government.
Nobel Prize-winning economist Milton Friedman illustrates how it can work by noting that America has gone through five major energy
conversions with no help from the federal government. By allowing the market system to work as it should, as a
free enterprise, consumer conservation would be encouraged and such alternative energy sources as wind and solar power would become economically
feasible.

Defense and Foreign Policy
Carter's main foreign policy problem seems to be a lack of contact and communication with his advisers and diplomats. For
example, during the SALT II negotiations, U.S. representatives were using the B1 bomber as a prime bargaining chip against the
Soviets. U.S. negotiators were stunned to read in the paper one day that Carter had canceled the B1. They had
been given no warning or instruction on how to handle the situation and were forced to play it by ear.
The result was a treaty that left America a second-rate power. Of course, the SALT II treaty never became official
because Carter couldn't depend on his own party in Congress to pass it. Later, he said the U.S. would follow
the SALT II guidelines regardless of its approval in the Senate. Moscow then put out a statement saying they would
not adhere to the treaty’s guidelines until the Senate had ratified it. This lack of communication has become a thorn
in the side of the Carter administration. Secretary of State Cyrus Vance resigned because of disagreements with the President. (It
was later discovered that Vance had been forced to assume the blame for what were really Carter's blunders). Now Muskie
is complaining that his opinion is not being heeded in matters of foreign policy.

The Reagan-Bush ticket is especially strong in foreign policy. Of Carter, Mondale, Reagan, and Bush, no one has more foreign
policy experience and expertise than Bush. Reagan is often accused (though with little foundation) of being a jingoist. The Soviet
Union, however, has indicated that they would rather deal with Reagan's steady foreign policy than Carter's wild unpredictability. They even
went so far as to say that war is a greater possibility with Carter as Commander-in-Chief. Carter’s original statement that
this election is one between war and peace may prove correct, then. The only difference is that the vote for
Reagan is the vote for peace!

Less Government, More Freedom
We should carefully scrutinize the arguments and charges made in this campaign; it is interesting to note the many contradictions.
An excellent example is the attack Carter has made on Reagan’s 35 billion dollar tax cut proposal. Carter claims this
tax cut would cause "fierce inflation," then he in turn advocates a 28 billion dollar tax cut he calls "anti-inflationary."
Does Carter seriously believe that 7 billion dollars can mean the difference between "fierce" and "anti-" inflation? The founding fathers
of this land had enough faith in the individual to provide him with a great deal of political and economic
freedom. The federal government has slowly eroded these freedoms by taxing our lives and resources to the point where we
are becoming nothing but sheep. We are now presented with an opportunity to start reversing this trend through our choice
on November 4th. How about it, America? Let’s show a little faith in each other and get Big Brother off
of our backs.

Randall Stroud is a freshman from Houston, Texas.
