‘THE DAVIDSONIAN Founded 1914

What Director of Physical Education and Intramurals Sterling Martin needs is a secretary, not an overseer. No one really knows
what is going to become of Martin when the athletic department’s personnel structure is finally realigned. The administration is presently
indicating that Martin will be working under resigning Athletic Director Thom Cartmill. Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman said
almost a month ago that Cartmill would probably be responsible for “all physical education and intramural athletics.” Martin would become
head cross country coach and director of lake campus operations.

The restructuring was necessitated by Cartmill’s resignation from the Athletic Directorship five weeks ago. Cartmill has tenure as a professor
of physical education and wishes to remain with the college in that capacity, a wish the college cannot legally deny.
The problem with this proposed realignment is that Martin is much more qualified to direct Intramurals and Physical Education than
Cartmill is. Martin has built Davidson’s IMAC program almost from the ground up, and the present flexible structure of the
P.E. program is also directly attributable to his efforts. The recent rejuvenation of the Lake Campus is also his responsibility.

Cartmill’s six-year stint as Athletic Director has witnessed no progress at all in basketball and minor sports, and very little
in football. Martin’s reputation among athletes and members of the athletic department is excellent—Cartmill’s is not. The College is certainly
in a difficult position because it must give Cartmill a job that will take advantage of his abilities in physical
education without stepping on the toes of the very qualified and dedicated Martin. Martin presently seems to be overburdened with
minor administrative tasks, and this trend would likely continue if Cartmill were placed over Martin. We hope the College will
allow Cartmill and Martin to share responsibilities instead of wasting Martin’s talents as Cartmill’s errand runner.

— Mark Barrett

Miscellany Eats Bucks

Whether the money for the Davidson Miscellany comes from student activity fees or from the general college budget may seem
to be a small accounting matter, but the question takes on considerable importance once one realizes how tightly stretched student
activity monies presently are. Budget requests by the various organizations funded by the $45 activities tax paid by every student
exceeded the amount available by a little over $5,000. One organization in particular, Hobart’s Park, will have to wait still
another year before it can publish often enough to become a well-established venture because the money was simply not available
to finance three issues next year.

The Miscellany can be a real asset to Davidson College if well done. A quality literary magazine can draw attention
to the school as a creative center as well as give students a chance to work with high-quality writing. Also,
good literature is worth promoting for its own sake. Yet the nature of The Miscellany and its goals shows that
the magazine should be funded through the general college budget, not by student activity fees. Although a small number of
students do put The Miscellany together, the magazine is more a service to the community and a public relations device
than a bona fide student activity. The Miscellany’s direct benefits to students here are minimal. Not many students read The
Miscellany, and few actually work on it. If the College as an institution wishes to enrich the cultural life of
the surrounding community, fine. Yet it should do this using its special resources in a way that does not strain
the already tight student activity funds.

The Campus Forum

Laundry Fee Unfair

To the Editor:

Those of us who are being forced to look elsewhere (off-campus) for housing next year are having to stop and
take a serious look at our costs compared to our income. Prices of off-campus housing are above those of the
dorms, which means some of us must look elsewhere to make up for the deficit. This will include longer work-study
hours or an extra job, plus withdrawal from eating houses. This is why it is so frustrating to think that
we will be paying $200 next year for laundry services which we are required to take. I could certainly understand
if my laundry was picked up and delivered, if they came around to our rooms and made our beds weekly
as I understand they did at one time, if I did not have toIron all my clothes that have been
"folded" (I believe that is the terminology our catalogue uses to describe the service), and if I could send them
at least a majority of my clothing. For that, I’ll pay $200. Unfortunately, however, I don’t feel justified in paying
that much money when I must wash the majority of my clothing myself in order to prevent shrinkage and discoloring.
Even with the freedom to use the machines free of charge on Friday and Saturday, I feel my time at
Davidson could be used more productively as long as I’m paying someone else to do it. If I did my
own laundry at pay machines (which, by the way, could be very convenient for some people off campus), I could
do it for less than half the cost. For instance, if I did three loads a week (and I don’t
even clothes—much in a week) at 25 cents per wash and 25 cents per dry, I would pay only $41.50
per year plus the cost of detergent, which by no means would exceed $158.50. Even if the cost of sheets
were included, it would still be far less. When Davidson went co-ed, I’m sure a lot of changes had to
be made to meet the needs of women. If the administration is truly concerned with continuing to meet our needs,
which I sincerely feel it is, then I think this is an important issue to evaluate, not only for off-campus
females but for those on campus also. We are not getting what we are paying for. I feel a solution
to this problem which could satisfy these needs is to make the service an optional one. I do realize the
serious problems this may cause in our budget, but I think that many students will agree with me that the
high cost of laundry is a problem which must be confronted and solved.

Shannon Walters ’82

Defense & The Draft

To the Editor:

In last week’s Davidsonian, Harold Lloyd suggested that we resist a draft because of the immorality of war. He is
partly right, for war is immoral, religion courses to the contrary notwithstanding. Yet in the issue of the draft, we
are given a choice to decide the fate of our world. Despite public utterances to the contrary, Russia is preparing
for a confrontation. Any long-range study of the USSR’s military spending, deployment, and civil defense leaves no doubt. Today, Russia
can save 75% of her industry and 66% of her population from serious harm in a nuclear exchange. At the
same time, she has achieved superiority in conventional arms. This all adds up to a confrontation which we cannot withstand
or win, using conventional or nuclear arms. In a conflict situation with the USSR, America would face a serious dilemma—unable
to counter Russia effectively with conventional arms, the US would be forced to either acquiesce in the face of Soviet
advancements or initiate a nuclear conflict, which we would surely lose, while Russia would escape with minimal damage. Thus the
decision to resist the draft or not becomes not a moral issue, but a practical one. Assuming that one believes
that one should defend one’s country, the decision to resist the draft is not a moral one but one that
must be made. I do not relish the thought of war. I do feel, though, that we are being threatened
with our survival as a nation. Without a draft, we cannot adequately defend our nation or our allies. Though studies
show that American firepower has increased, our ability to use it has diminished. The all-volunteer army cannot attract enough quality
men to utilize this firepower. With a draft, a large pool of quality manpower would be available. Therefore, a draft,
though possibly immoral, is necessary for the survival of the nation. In the face of outside threat, the question of
morality pales beside the threat to our homes, our lives, and our way of life. To resist a draft is
to resign oneself to a rather bleak future.

Mark Newman, ‘81

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters
must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.
