March 21, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

ESTOS Southern Conference Changing Character ~ An Interview With David Shi

Editor's Note: Dr. David Shi heads the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics. This committee, made up of four administrators, three
faculty members, and three students appointed by the SGA, advises the President on matters relating to the College’s Athletic program.
Dr. Shi is also Davidson's faculty representative to the Southern Conference. The following questions and answers come from a longer
interview with Dr. Shi Friday, March 14. Dr. Shi gave the interview with the understanding that he would not give
his personal opinions about the future of Davidson athletic programs. Instead, he said he would try to be objective and
present information to help the College community decide intelligently for itself.

Some explanation of terms is not out of place here. Only half of the game of football is played on
the field by students; the other half is played in committee rooms. College Athletics means politics. A lot of decisions
that determine outcomes of football games and track meets are made in committees. The N.C.A.A. regulates recruiting and scholarships and
contains four divisions, appropriately named Division I-A, Division I-AA, Division II, and Division III. These divisions are differentiated by the
amount of recruiting and scholarships allowed on each level. Our basketball program and all our minor sports programs compete in
Division I-A. They are also members of the Southern Conference. Our football program was moved to Division I-AA ten years
ago. This move also removed it from the Southern Conference. For this reason, basketball and the minor sports can be
looked on as a group separate from football.

Could you explain why the minor sports and basketball fit together as a group?

They fit together as a group because the Southern Conference and the N.C.A.A. require that to be in Division I,
you have to provide a certain number of sports at that division level. Therefore, in order to maintain our membership
in the Conference, our minor sports must continue to compete at Division I level. As far as the Conference is
concerned, however, it is the status of the Davidson football program that concerns the members most.

Why is that?

Several years ago when we dropped our football program down a notch, that was a very controversial decision among the
conference members. This is the way such an action looks to them: Davidson is going to reduce its football allocation
but still wants to stay in the conference in the other sports. Theoretically, Davidson can divert funds from its football
program to its other sports and make them more competitive. So, in actuality, Davidson is getting off light, compared to
the other schools, because they have to support football at a higher level while Davidson can concentrate on their basketball.

Who makes the decisions of the Southern Conference?

The conference is made up of the athletic directors of the schools and the faculty representatives. They would vote on
any decision to kick out a member. It’s a fact that Marshall University tried very aggressively two years ago to
kick Davidson out because of the football exception. That’s why it’s a very sensitive issue with the conference if we
go back to them and say we're going to tamper again with another program. Some of them are just waiting
for the opportunity to boot us out. For now, the membership question is not raised anymore at conference meetings. But
any tampering with our sports would do it. For example, one of the factors involved in any discussion to change
the football program from its current status to Division III would be the effect such a change might have on
conference membership.

So if we lower football from Division I-AA to III, even though our football team does not play in the
Southern Conference, the Conference would still raise a stink?

Yes. The same argument would be raised: that Davidson is further reducing its financial commitment to football and thereby it
is not really carrying its weight as a Conference member. Furman, The Citadel, and VMI have strongly defended our right
to stay in the Conference, and they probably would continue to do so. But that is just a guess. The
Conference commissioner thinks that if we drop to Division III, the Conference will kick us out. That’s his guess.

What effect does a basketball program in Division I have on the minor sports?

Most supporters of our current athletic policy would agree that one of the primary reasons we remain in the Southern
Conference is the N.C.A.A. playoff berth guaranteed to the Conference basketball champion. Thus, viewed in this light, the basketball program
affects the minor sports in requiring that they participate at Division I level within the Southern Conference. Of course, some
would argue that there are advantages for the minor sports in conference membership as well, such as the opportunity to
participate in post-season championships. In the long run, however, Davidson’s minor sports will face a difficult struggle to be competitive
in the conference. In recent years, there have been a number of new teams added tothe conference: East Tennessee State,
Marshall University, Western Carolina, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. These new teams join with some similar schools already in the
conference, like Appalachian State. These are large state universities, all of them with anywhere from 7,000 to 15,000 students and
with large athletic budgets. Because of that, if you look down the road, it will certainly be difficult for our
minor sports programs to be competitive. Many of them are not competitive now with conference members because of the nature
of the schools they are up against. And it’s not just Davidson that will have this problem. The other small
schools in the conference, like Furman, the Citadel, and VMI, are going to have these problems as well.

So there's a split in the Conference?

Yes, between the types of schools. And because of the development of the large university, our track, cross-country, baseball, and
wrestling are in a very difficult competitive situation, because all these other schools offer scholarships in those sports, and we
do not.

"HERE'S ANOTHER HAT FOR YOUR COLLECTION, COACH."

Track Teams Need Real Coaches
John Hoots

There are some big changes going on in the Davidson Athletic Department. At the end of this term, four sports
will have no coaches, the resignation of Athletic Director Tom Cartmill will take effect, the new athletic budget cuts will
be implemented and funds will be redistributed to women’s sports in accordance with Title IX. Accordingly, the future doesn’t look
good for the track, indoor track, and cross-country teams at Davidson. There is even talk among cross-country team members about
not competing as a varsity team next year.

There has been no full-time head coach in any of these sports since 1972, yet these sports are three of
the twelve N.C.A.A. Division I men’s sports required in order for the Davidson basketball team to compete in Division I.
The prospects do not look good for the hiring of a full-time track/indoor track/cross-country coach, in light of the trustee’s
commitment to a “nationally competitive” basketball team in N.C.A.A. Division I. The fulfillment of Title IX obligations, as well as
the newly announced budget cuts in athletics, apparently won’t affect basketball; the money will come from the minor sports, which
are already suffering. (There wasn’t enough money in the indoor track budget for the team to go to more than
two meets, ideally they could have run eight or nine.)

In my mind, evidence is piling up which shows that these sports are merely “skeleton” or “dummy” teams that aren’t
meant to be equitably funded, coached, or competitive. They merely exist in shadows, allowing Davidson’s basketball team to compete in
N.C.A.A. Division I. Is this practical in this day and time, considering the size of Davidson in relation to large
state schools which can easily support big basketball with no detrimental effect to the athletic program or the school in
general?

Our track, indoor track, and cross-country teams cannot possibly be competitive against other N.C.A.A. Division I schools, because we have
no full-time coaches, no scholarships, spotty recruiting, and modest budgets. For a track runner to qualify for the N.C.A.A. Division
I championships in the 1500 meters, for instance, he would have to break our own school’s record by almost 20
seconds! Yet on the year’s track and cross-country teams, a number of runners would have qualified for post-season competition in
N.C.A.A. Division III championships, which would have matched Davidson athletes with athletes from similar schools and backgrounds. This would also
have given athletes and the school much-needed recognition and national exposure.

And the folly continues. The athletic department is seeking to hire another track/soccer combination head coach. This idea is popular
with neither the soccer team nor the track team, nor the coach who has to perform such a feat. Coach
Karl Kremser, the soccer/track coach who will be leaving this spring because his contract was not renewed, was the only
member of the athletic staff who coached full-time. He coached and recruited for the soccer, indoor track, and outdoor track
teams at the same time. To ask a new coach to perform a similar feat would be condemning three sports
to mediocrity. No one can coach three sports and do a good job.

These conditions would seem appropriate if Davidson’s only claim to fame were a “nationally competitive” basketball team. Yet Davidson is
a great deal more than a basketball school. There is a nucleus of gifted, non-scholarship athletes in the “minor sports”
who are as talented and dedicated as any scholarship athlete in the school, and the non-scholarship athlete’s dedication is not
rewarded with money either. Don’t these athletes deserve a fair program? Don’t all Davidson students deserve a fair program in
athletics?

The proposition is simple: either the minor sports should be upgraded from “skeleton” programs, at least to the extent of
providing coaches for the athletes, or they should be moved to Division III, where the athletes can compete fairly against
similar schools.

John Hoots is a member of the indoor track/track/cross-country team.
