6—The Davidsonian—December 19, 1980

The women’s basketball team will face Notre Dame January 4.

Rhodes
(Continued from page 1)

Davis would have studied under a two-year interdisciplinary program in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics (PPE), but would have concentrated on philosophy and economics. Blaine Sanders, a history major from Johnson City, Tennessee, sees the Rhodes scholarship as a “pinnacle of achievement.” He said that the process of applying in itself is a good experience because it forces a person to take a more objective look at himself.

(Continued from page 5)

Dear Mr. Bad Bernard and Mr. Bonehead,

Regarding Women’s IMAC basketball, we are appalled at the misleading nature of the teams’ names. Such names as Penthouse Rowdies, Hot to Trot, Twice as Nice, Silly Rabbits, and Burkland’s Babes seem to imply a certain social atmosphere at Davidson College. We know for a fact that such an atmosphere does not exist. As astute male observers at Davidson, we have suggestions for more appropriate names which would more accurately depict the situation among the coeds. Such names as the Frigidettes, the Ice Boxes, the Igloos, and the Gigantic Glaciers seem more suitable.

The Illegitimate Sons of Goodell and Porter ’81

Sanders also would have liked to participate in the PPE program, concentrating on comparisons between the English and American political systems. He was particularly interested in studying legal ethics at Oxford. Sanders plans to become a lawyer. David Waddill, a history major from Winston-Salem, North Carolina, said he was interested in studying under Oxford’s tutorial method. He also feels that by exposing a student to different lifestyles, foreign study forces a student to question what he really believes in. Waddill was also interested in the PPE course. He plans to go on to law school or to combine work in law and business.

Rhodes candidates go through several stages in applying for the scholarship. They first give a personal statement to Davidson’s Graduate Fellowships Committee, which then reviews it and gives the applicant practice interviews. The applications are forwarded to state committees which select two nominees to go to district competitions. Each district selects four Rhodes Scholars. Graduate Fellowships Committee Chairman Lance Stell said he would like to see more students apply for the Rhodes and other graduate scholarships. No women applied for the Rhodes scholarship this year. Stell hopes more people will apply because “our students should be competing and winning.” He said faculty encouragement is a key to increasing the number of applicants.

Women’s basketball falls to Belmont; to face Irish

By LISA YOUNG and DEBBIE CARLTON
Staff Correspondents

The women’s basketball team battled Belmont Abbey in a strong second-half effort, but a large first-half deficit left the Lady Cats out of the picture in an 88-60 final. The Davidson team had practiced together only two weeks and could not pull things together early against the strong Belmont Abbey team. Belmont Abbey recruits women players with scholarships for all team members.

Coach Dee Mayes said she was happy to see the much-improved play in the second period, especially the better offensive drives and shooting. Mike Frankhouser was Davidson’s high scorer with 25 points, followed by Carol Heppner with 19. The fourth game of the season will be against a tough Notre Dame team on January 4 in the Charlotte Coliseum. Mayes said that if the Davidson team plays at its best, it can stay in the game. This year’s teamhas the talent to play first-class basketball, but needs time to play together. Bad passing and poor shooting, which have plagued the team so far, should disappear as the women get time over break to work on team skills. Improved team play and a lot of hard work could be the start of a winning season for the Cats.

Wrestlers squish Pfeiffer; Catawba squashes Cats
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

A 31-20 mild shocker over Pfeiffer on Saturday was “a good taste of victory as we go home,” said wrestling coach Bob Estock. Although the win followed a 34-12 loss at the hands of Catawba, already the young season has spotlighted a few unexpected talents. Estock has found a few pleasant surprises, particularly in John Briedenstine (150), whom Estock described as “exceptional.” In the Catawba tourney, Briedenstine lost to the Catawba number one man, Jay Gerish, by a single point. Just a few days later, Briedenstine held the upper hand as he defeated Gerish 12-7 in the dual meet with a remarkable comeback.

Also among the three wrestlers who were consistent across the split were Scott Smith (134) and Van Wagner (142). Estock says the junior 134-pound Smith “is getting back in his old form. He’s the veteran.” Smith picked up a pair of wins, including a 7-0 decision over Catawba’s Scott Ferrish and a 10-2 drubbing over Al Baretta of Pfeiffer. “Van Wagner continues to improve and is doing an excellent job,” continued Estock. Wagner turned Pfeiffer wrestler Billy McWilliams’ gaze to the lights, pinning McWilliams in 1:25.

In the Catawba meet, freshman 118-pounder Eric Hill supplied the half of team points that Briedenstine and Smith didn’t. Hill was pounding Andy Chappell 11-0, and the Catawba wrestler’s shoulder blades had touched the mat several times before the referee decided that Chappell had been stalling too long. Hill won by default, something rarely seen. Otherwise, the match was all Catawba, as the visitors picked up four pins.

Pfeiffer helped the Cats to victory as they were unable to fill three weight classes. Mills Antly (118), Lance Stokes (142), and Tate Nichols all picked up forfeits. Eric Reintsma engineered a 9-6 win over Doug Campbell, and Wagner and Smith added the remaining points to the Wildcat cause. Estock felt that it was “a good win,” but that Pfeiffer had “little depth.”

Looking ahead, Estock’s squad has until January 14, when they travel to Furman. Until then, the team needs to “learn to stay off our backs. We must learn to fight, and be more aggressive. The kids will have to work hard over vacation.”

Editors
(Continued from page 1)

turns in the fall, Kiss will probably go JYA to France. Thus, The Davidsonian will have a single editor except for the rest of winter term. “We’ve been planning this since the summer,” Siman said, “Elizabeth and I think enough alike that there won’t be a change in editorial policy while we take turns going abroad.” Kiss and Siman plan no major staff changes at this time. Senior Donald Caldwell will replace Siman and Kiss as news editor. Campaigning had many side benefits, according to Kiss and Siman. They were able to recruit some new staff members and hear students’ views on The Davidsonian. Kiss is a sophomore from Alexandria, Virginia, and has not declared a major. Siman is a junior philosophy major from Charlotte, North Carolina. Anyone interested in any aspect of Davidsonian production should contact either Kiss (-6050) or Siman (-6090).