THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 3
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
October 3, 1980

High student interest problem for Humes program
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

“If you didn’t read about it in Humes, it probably didn’t happen.” So proclaims the familiar T-shirt. Since 1962, the
two-year Humanities program — or “Humes,” as it is commonly called — has been a major part of the academic
life of about one-third of all Davidson students. These students attend lectures and discuss, in the words of a Humanities
program brochure, the “historical, religious, literary, philosophical, political, economic, and artistic aspects of the life of Western Man.”

Now the program faces some tough decisions due to increasing student demand for Humanities combined with difficulties in recruiting faculty
to teach it. This year, 160 freshmen put Humanities as their first choice course, according to Religion Professor Max Polley.
With seven sections of 17 students each in the first-year program, there was only room for 119 students overall.

In an effort to accommodate more students, the Humanities faculty and the Administration decided to increase the number of students
per section to 18 and to add an eighth section, bringing the total of first-year Humanities students to 144. First-year
Humanities Chairman Daniel Rhodes, who would not have taught a section fall term, agreed to take the eighth section as
a third course. Normally professors teach two courses. “There was no one on tap to do it,” Rhodes said, and
“not a whole lot of time to think about it.”

The addition means that the second-year program will have to expand to eight sections next year. Moreover, since Rhodes will
be teaching one of the seven originally planned sections this winter and spring, a professor must be found to replace
Rhodes in the added eighth section. The administration has made a commitment to hiring a new faculty member or finding
someone within the present faculty to fill this vacancy, according to Polley. At this time, Rhodes said he has “no
idea” who this eighth faculty member will be. There will be a meeting in the “near future,” he added, to
discuss staffing problems.

What can — or should — be done about the increasing student demand for Humanities? Part of the reason demand
is so high, according to faculty members, is that the College advertises its Humanities program. “It’s sold very heavily by
the Admissions Office,” Polley said. (See Humanities, page 11)

Bingham states goals
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

Athletics — its objectives, priorities, and finances — was the focus for this week’s Open Luncheon speaker, Athletic Director Eugene
Bingham. Bingham, after defining his job as “implementing the policy set by the Trustees,” went on to give a personal
view of the goals of his department.

The Davidson sports program, Bingham said, should “be concerned with the human needs of our athletes,” should regard education as
its “purpose,” and should strive to be aware of and to fulfill “the needs and wants of all students at
Davidson,” whatever their athletic interest. Bingham admitted that a large part of intercollegiate athletics “is PR.” “We must please our
stockholders and our stockholders are the alumni.” However, he added, “for

The bulldozer continues work on the Commons.

Absentee ballots readily available
SGA plans fundraiser
By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

The SGA and the Development Department will hold a Telephonathon the first two weeks of December to raise money for
the Living Endowment fund. According to SGA President David Waddill, the Telephonathon will involve 160 to 240 students calling alumni
from the classes of 1971 to 1980. Money raised during the Telephonathon will go toward meeting the $100,000 challenge grant
the College recently received from the Charles A. Dana Foundation. Waddill said the main reason students are being asked to

(David McCurry)the person who needs it,” a major sport is a valuable route to personal development.” (See Bingham, page 7)

By ANN MITCHELL
Staff Correspondent

Many students who want to vote in the November elections can do so without leaving Davidson. According to a Davidsonian
poll conducted this week, 82% of 125 students responding are registered to vote. The deadline for registering locally is Tuesday,
October 6. Mecklenburg County residents can register here in Davidson at the town library. Other students must register in their
home counties. County residents must vote in their normal precincts; they cannot vote by absentee ballot. However, out-of-county and out-of-state
residents have two options, according to senior Peter Hairston, president of the Davidson College Young Republicans. First, a student living
outside Mecklenburg County can send a letter to his home county election board requesting an absentee ballot. He will receive
an application, which he must (See Registration, page 11)

participate in raising money for the Dana Grant is that they need to be aware of how much it costs
to run the College. They need to realize that their tuition only pays for 60% of the College’s expenses.” The
Telephonathon will target the classes of 1971 to 1980 because the percentage of alum- (See Telephonathon, page 11)

DAVIDSON'S ANNUAL OPERATING BUDGET: WHERE IT COMES FROM
Government Sources 1.5%
Gifts and Private Grants 12.9%
Endowment Earnings 12.4%
Students’ Tuition and Fees 42.1%
Trust Income 8.4%
Other Sources 3.8%

Gray area — Money received from students, government aid
White area — Gifts and returns on various College holdings
TOTAL: $11,860,523
Source: Comptroller's Office

By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

It takes a lot more than students’ tuition to keep the College running. Tuition and fees cover about $5 million
of an annual operating budget of well over $11 million, according to Comptroller Robert Davidson. How this gap is closed
ultimately determines how much money the College has to spend — and how much of a financial burden students bear.
Besides tuition, the College has six general sources of income: First, auxiliary enterprises, which, for example, include the student store
and the dormitories. They are financed primarily by students. Second, government aid to students. Third, gifts and private grants, especially
from alumni and charitable foundations. Fourth and fifth, revenues from trusts and endowments. And finally, miscellaneous sources, especially short-term investments.

Income from Tuition and Fees
In 1979-80 tuition and fees (which don’t provide for dorms, eating houses, or laundry) from all students totaled $4.99 million,
or 42 percent of an operating budget of $11.86 million, according to Davidson. Davidson said the students’ slice of the
pie is “low,” and Special Resources Director Julius Melton noted that several members of the Board of Visitors feel the
College charges students proportionately too little of the operating budget. However, the ratio of students’ tuition and fees to the
entire operating budget has been rising in recent years. In the 1965-66 fiscal year, tuition and fees comprised 32 percent
of the budget, according to Davidson. In 1970-71 the figure had increased to 38 percent and in 1975-76 to 44
percent. Since then the figure has remained relatively constant. Business Manager Robert Currie emphasized that the College remains cost-competitive with
similar schools. Davidson's estimated cost of $6200 for 1980-81 compares favorably with, for example, Bucknell’s of $7321, William’s of $8130,
and Wesleyan’s of $8500, according to a report prepared by the Business Office. However, Melton pointed out that Davidson competes
regionally for students with some inexpensive schools, such as UNC-Chapel Hill. Also, even if tuition and fees do not increase
any more than inflation necessitates, Melton fears Davidson might still “price itself out of its traditional market,” particularly the (See
Development, page 11)
