10—The Davidsonian—October 31, 1980

The Bricks & Doughboys report on favorite IMAC teams & alumnus

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

The honorable writers of BB & DB have received many an impassioned letter in recent days imploring us to spend
more time on flickerball in the column. This week we shall pander to those desires by presenting BB & DB’s
annual poll of the worst 5 flickerball teams. None of these teams are worth jack and they don’t deserve to
be mentioned, but we will anyway in the interests of egalitarianism.

5. The Bud Studs—This team is absolutely pathetic. Only two of the players on the team have motor control over
all four limbs. And both of these guys are blind. Their major problem comes from having 2 SPE hall counselors.
Fortunately, only one of these plays, or else the team would be ranked much lower.

4. Sequoia—The amazing thing about this team is that they are seniors, they aren’t SPE’s or PIKA’s, and they’re still
awful at flickerball. It’s hard to explain, but their record bears it out. They’ve scored 12 points and allowed 4,256
this year. Why do they keep playing?

3. PIKA #1—Considering the team, we shudder at the thought of a PIKA #2 squad. PIKA #1 is another case
of a team where experience only seems to confuse them. If it was possible for them to get worse with
age, they would.

2. Old Men—Again this year the Old Men have shown a complete inability to win a big game. Chronicling their
success in big games over the last few years is like chronicling Joby’s success during exams. BB & DB would
like to suggest to the Old Men that they change their name to the Italian Army. While they’re at it
they might as well all pledge SPE.

1. SPE—The SPE team is the elixir for Freshmen Halls. Once again, as was the case last year in every
IMAC sport including pinball and bumper pool, the SPE’s are the worst. Despite a plethora of practice sessions and chalk
talks this year, the SPE’s couldn’t pull themselves out of the doldrums once again.

There was some important action this past week in the flickerball world. The KA’s continued on with an unscathed record
after doing in PIKA #1 and Half Mast. Half Mast was expelled from the league by the ghost of KA
past (Percy) for obnoxiousness by Chris Norwood, Bob Trobich, and Andy Brown. The KA’s performance can only be termed peripatetic
since theirs is the weakest division.

In another weak division, the SAE’s coasted by all their opponents including arch-rival At Your Cervix, who forfeited. Joby leads
the defending champs who play stupid flickerball.

In the only good division, there were some big games. Hurtin 4 Certin, which has announced the retirement of ex-legend,
Minor Sinclair, beat the Old Men to a pulp 33-7. Shi and Stroud missed the game, but Gardner, Hine, and
a few other fuddy-duddies did make it. The Bushwackers cemented their position as flickerball’s best freshmen team by losing only
by one point to the Flamin’ Chucks. Mike, Turley, and a few wimpy KA’s pulled it out for them. In
the biggestGame of the year: the upstart Rastros beat Hurtin 4 Certin 33-31. Despite the fact Blaine and X had
given up early in the game, H4C came back to make it close. Highlight of the game was a crushing
collision between Murrah and Beaver which left both of them gasping for air. Murrah got four stitches while Beaver lost
two teeth, which turned the game in favor of the Rastros. Buck, Philip, J.C., and Al all did well to
make up for the underwhelming performance of Carr. Yates has to learn to catch snaps.

The last thing we'd like to include this week is a rather touching and poignant note we received from one
of our good friends and a former IMAC performer. His name is Minor Sinclair, and as we mentioned before, he
has retired from flickerball.

Dear Guys,

As a senior, guys, things just aren’t coming together. As I look back on four years of Davidson, I’ve got
to ask, why?, about a lot of things. There are so many things to think about—career goals, lost love, KA,
and how so many of us just (urinated) the last years of our life away. One does develop good friendships
and one does get prepared well for the rough-and-tumble years ahead—but may I ask, is it worth it? Is it
worth the hypocrisy of the administration, those dead Saturday nights, and those long trips back home to Auburn? I know
I’m spilling my heart out to you guys, but what are friends for? Without the Jobys (although we've not gotten
along perfectly), Terrys, the Davises, and the Maybe, how could I justify the expenditure and money I’ve spent at Davidson?
As you can tell, a lot has been going through my mind lately. I've been reading Rudolph Bultmann and Norman
Vincent Peale to try to sort things out. Maybe now you can understand why I've quit flickerball. So many different
things are happening within me, I just don’t feel I can concentrate on flickerball when I’m out there. Thanks for
hearing me out.

Best of Everything,
Minor

Now for the Top Ten:
1. SAE
2. Rastros
3. Hurtin 4 Certin
4. KA
5. Old Men
6. At Your Cervix
7. Western Bass
8. Half Mast
9. Flamin’ Chucks
10. Bushwackers

Others not receiving votes: Ava Spencer, Ronald Reagan, and Tarbaby.

What Do You Want From College? Management Training? Add It To Your Schedule.

You’re career-oriented. You’re interested in management. You’re an individual seeking experience in problem analysis, requiring decision-making results. You want management
training and leadership experience. Experience that will be an asset in a management career—or any career you may choose. If
you are this individual, you can get all of this experience through the adventure of Army ROTC.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:
