(Continued from page 1) will lose his position. Martin declined to comment on the change, saying only that his real concern was the continued development of “the program itself.” Cartmill, who has been at Davidson for six years, is the only tenured member of the athletics department. There is no tenure track for others in the department, Zimmermann said. Most distressing of all, no one in the athletics department seemed to be adequately informed about the changes. Neither Cartmill, Martin, nor Assistant Athletic Director Tom Couch knew that no new Athletic Director would be hired; Cartmill said he “assumed” one would be. Two weeks after Cartmill’s announcement that he was resigning his directorship to work “in the area of physical education and recreational activities,” Martin still did not know whether his own position would be affected. Couch had not heard whether his post would be continued if no Athletic Director were hired. Zimmermann said he “assumes” Couch will be assisting the Intercollegiate Athletics Director in “administrative work.”

Personnel is one of the areas to be affected by the $85,000 athletic budget cut, Zimmermann said. There will be some additional “overlap” in coaching positions.

“We’ve got to get the maximum mileage out of the stuff we have. No college of our size can afford one-sport coaches,” Zimmermann explained. However, Martin had earlier pointed out that one of the major problems Davidson athletics has had to face has been “difficult combinations in the intercollegiate area.” For example, Martin said, it is unique among colleges as far as he knows for one coach to be responsible for soccer, track, and cross country.

Two coaches will not be returning next year: Women’s basketball and field hockey coach Susan Roberts has resigned and soccer and track coach Karl Kremser’s contract was not renewed. None of the other coaches have been notified of any changes in their job descriptions. Women’s Athletics Director Pat Miller said they were supposed to be told by this time. “I hope they’ll let us know soon enough so that if (the new position) is not to the coaches’ liking they can look elsewhere.”

According to Cartmill, he and Zimmermann “in conjunction with Martin” will decide on his specific duties as well as Martin’s for next year. Citing Martin’s work in the development of Davidson athletics’ “direst need,” better facilities, Cartmill said, “the two of us could work together to give this area more manpower.” Zimmermann said Martin “will continue to have some responsibilities in the areas of physical education and intramurals.”

The uncertainty among members of the athletic department regarding personnel matters extends to the broader area of future athletic policy as well. Couch said he has “no idea in the least” what the athletic strategy will be. He declined to comment on the possible significance of the results of independent athletic evaluation to be conducted April 9 and 10. Money is the universal problem, Couch admitted. “Our budget hasn’t increased significantly since 1974.” “Hopefully,” he said, the cut “won’t be $85,000.” Financial problems will “hurt” all the sports. But we’ll make it.”

Martin said he was concerned about the status of the physical education program. “P.E. affects every person in the student body.” The program’s efficiency, however, isseverely hampered by “administrative problems” such as the lack of a secretary. “If the college feels athletics is a part of the curriculum then we need to sit down and chart our course with a definite goal in mind,” Martin said. Cartmill envisions a “trend toward intramurals and recreation” in future athletic policy. “We must determine what we can afford and what we can’t.” He cited the development of general student sports facilities and women’s athletics as major considerations. Zimmermann said there was no plan to draw up a new strategy for athletics. The report of the independent athletic evaluation committee, which will examine present policy, will come too late to affect this year’s budget and personnel decisions. “We’re all just waiting,” Martin said, and his statement echoed the sentiment evident throughout the athletic department, expressed most succinctly perhaps by the secretary who pleaded, “Please let us know what’s going on.”

(Continued from page 6)

saying “If you can’t stand the heat, stay out of the kitchen.” By running for public office, Mr. Jackson opened his political record to the sort of evaluation he seems unable to endure. I nominate Mr. Jackson for the Maturity Award.

Robert Bowie '81

To the Editor:

I have never dared to take anything meaningful to say to the readers of The [illegible] But now I dare to do so. The running of the campaign for SGA President and the conduct of the current SGA

(Continued from page 1)

Frank cited inflation as the major culprit in the budget problem and said the only real option now is to find a source of additional revenue, such as increased alumni giving. Frank opposed the idea of dropping down a division or two in competition because he does not think that money will be saved and feels alternate sources of funds can be found. Track and soccer coach Karl Kremser echoed Frank’s opinion of inflation. According to Kremser, both the track and the soccer programs are in “dire straits” because of inflation and he is afraid that a certain amount of quality may have to be sacrificed to keep the programs within budget. Kremser agreed that there is no fat in any minor sport of their expenses on trips. According to Kremser, the results of any budget cuts in his

Objectors

Conscientious Objection (CCCO) and the National Interreligious Service Board for Conscientious Objectors (NISBCO). Such a file will usually include personal statements; letters of substantiation from friends, teachers, and ministers; and any tangible evidence of sincerity such as lifestyle, group membership, volunteer work, etc. The selective service currently will not keep such files, although they have in the past when there was a draft. Conscientious objection or nonparticipation in war is a human right recognized by all major religious groups, the United Nations, and the Federal government.

Campus Forum

First, if indeed the possibility that 234 votes were “stuffed” in the boxes exists, then the whole election

Like Frank, Kremser also opposed dropping to a

Overall, however, the attitude of the coaches is one of frustration and some resentment. They realize that their budgets are small and that they may well be smaller next year. With double-digit inflation and no relief in sight, they realize, as does Tom Couch, that they will continue to be “eating hamburgers on the road, not staying the night, and playing tired.”