tify and evaluate prospective donors. In addition, the new Associate Dean of the Faculty, J.N. Burnett, will aid in development work, particularly in raising funds for the computer center, Melton said. Staff members in the Alumni and Communication Offices also help Development efforts. Melton has assumed the duties of the Vice President temporarily once before after the departure of Vice President for Development Craven Williams in 1976. Melton’s specialty is deferred giving, in which the donor, through a will or trust, for example, transfers a gift to the College while retaining use of it during his lifetime. Such gifts tend to be the largest a college receives. According to Spencer, “Colleges will have to depend on deferred gifts for their major resources.”

Spencer said the process of selecting a new Vice President of Development begins with advertisements in the Chronicle of Higher Education and the Update and letters to other universities. Applicants are screened and the top candidates interviewed. Spencer makes the final decision in consultation with the Trustee Development Committee, the Executive Committee of the Faculty, and members of the Development staff. The approval of the entire Board of Trustees is necessary for appointment. The salary the College is offering is not an impediment to hiring a new Vice President, according to Spencer. While “it would be difficult to attract a person from business on salary alone,” Spencer added, “Davidson’s attraction is that it gives an opportunity to work in a service position.” No particular background, such as business, is necessary for development work, Spencer added.

There is a possibility, Spencer said, that the Development Department will expand as the 1987 Program, the College’s $35 million fundraising drive, draws nearer to its close. With its present smaller staff, however, Melton said, the department must concentrate on efficiency, aiming for larger, rather than more, gifts. Students may help in areas of “annual giving,” Spencer said, but they can be especially useful in providing leads to potential donors. “We welcome suggestions,” Melton said, “There are so few of us that the student and faculty are likely to know more sources of support.” The other members of the Development staff are Living Endowment Director Lee Willingham, Director of Corporate Development Mike Daisley, and Sandy Carnegie, Executive Director of the Wildcat Club, an autonomous athletic fundraising organization.

(Continued from page 6)

The rest of the plot I feel honor bound not to reveal, since that would ruin the suspense of the graphic murders that make up the main thrill of Dressed To Kill. DePalma had to make serious cuts to keep his R-rating and this explains the lack of excess gore used so well in Carrie. DePalma's wife, Nancy Allen, plays a whore with a heart of gold character who becomes the movie’s reluctant detective. She and a young unknown who plays Angie Dickinson’s teenage scientist son are cartoon figures who fill the second half of the movie with the juvenile charm of Nancy Drew or the Hardy Boys. DePalma keeps the pace rocketing along with the technical virtuosity he has lavishly

(Continued from page 1)

MacCormac noted that a hearing open to all county residents would be held December 4 at the McGuire site to discuss modifications in the Mecklenburg plan. When asked to what extent the Davidson plan could be useful in the event of a disaster in an area so close to a reactor, she said, “It would be better to have something than nothing.” “Since there is no plan at present, anything would be useful in a large scale accident, be it radiological or otherwise. A number of other possible situations, such as the derailment of a chlorine gas car or a nuclear fuel truck accident demonstrate the need for preparation.”displayed in each of his films since Sisters. Although Dressed To Kill suffers from being excessively derivative (on more than one occasion a knife-wielding madman wanders into a shower), it manages to be both intelligent and fun, two qualities lacking in all but a handful of movies released this year.

McGuire — Thornberry — (Continued from page 7)

Thornberry and her husband are enjoying their new house on Concord Road, but find the limited resources of a small town somewhat frustrating when trying to furnish it. Thornberry said she has recently become interested in the role of law and the legal process in the novels of such nineteenth-century authors as Jane Austen and George Eliot. She cited Austen’s Pride and Prejudice as an example—the entire plot revolves around a wealthy widow’s attempts to marry off her daughters so that the family estate would not be claimed by the English government for lack of a male heir.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

“In regards to an accident at the McGuire Plant the problem might be one of escalating danger rather than of immediate danger. To the extent that such a plan could ensure the orderliness of the townspeople in time of crisis, the plan is useful.”

Senior Geoff Little, member of the Davidson Energy Group, which opposes nuclear power, voiced qualified support for the plan. “It would cut down on injuries though property damage would not be affected,” Little said. “I question whether the test of the plan will be a realistic one. Its value will depend on whether institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes, and prisons participate. These people would have to be moved in an emergency, too.”

Little also questioned how the drill might be interpreted in the press. “In a drill recently in the area surrounding the North Anna Plant in Virginia none of the local officials knew how to operate the radiation detection devices. The press overlooked this and billed it all as a success. The plant was certified safe and permitted to open. But shouldn't these people know how to use equipment as important as that?"

News Analysis (Continued from page 1)

Williams administrator emphasized the ‘pleasant relationship’ trustees have with students and faculty. For example, when trustees visit the campus, they dine with both students and professors. Because of the great amount of contact trustees have with the people of Williams, there is “very little demand to attend trustee meetings” among students and faculty, the administrator said. That trustees can conduct closed meetings is, in her opinion, indicative of sufficient communication among trustees, students, and faculty before these meetings.

At Williams and Davidson, then, student input into policy rests heavily upon the amount of contact between students and Trustees outside of Trustee meetings. The colleges assume that there is dialogue between the trustees and students meaningful enough for the groups to understand each other’s views. In Davidson’s case, do occasional conflicts between the policies of Trustees and the wishes of large numbers of students demonstrate breakdowns of informal communication? Or are these conflicts merely reflections of disagreements on policy?

It is difficult to measure the effectiveness of student-Trustee communication. Spencer thinks the voice students have had in recent years “seems to have been satisfactory.” He termed the level of student participation in Trustee policy as “not just window dressing.”

Other schools, however, have given students a larger official role in policy-making. Duke, for example, elects three of its trustees from the student body. Also, according to the Secretary of the University, the editor of The Chronicle, Duke's student newspaper, and the president of the student body normally attend trustee meetings. Otherwise, the meetings are closed.

At Southwestern at Memphis the students elect three nonvoting trustees, as does the faculty.