2—The Davidsonian—September 26, 1980

Government can't decide if, when, or how it will prosecute non-registrants

(CPS) Those who refused to participate in military registration during the summer probably won't start feeling legal heat from the government until October, according to a Selective Service System official.

Paul Mocko of Selective Service says his agency most likely won’t begin referring names of 18- and 19-year-old non-registrants to the Justice Dept. for prosecution until “we get everybody into the data base.” “That's our main priority and will remain our main priority through October. Then the activity will probably center on enforcing compliance with the law.”

Mocko was unsure what that “activity” would be. “Right now our plans are pretty sketchy.” Normally the Selective Service System identifies possible evaders, and the Justice Dept. investigates and prosecutes them. “There is no way I can speculate what action the (Justice) department might take” when it gets names from Selective Service, says Justice Dept. spokesman Dean St. Dennis.

St. Dennis maintains that, without knowing what the case load might be, Justice has not yet even made any internal organizational moves to accommodate the added work. Most government officials contacted for this story chose not to dwell on enforcement measures. There have been scattered reports that the Carter Administration intends to defer energetic pursuit of evaders until after the November election.

An anonymous “Selective Service official” was quoted in a July Wall Street Journal article as saying the government planned a “soft” approach toward non-registrants. But the report prompted angered Selective Service Director Bernard Rostker to warn: “This is not Mickey Mouse. It’s not ‘ha ha’ catch me if you can. A person who fails to register is a felon. Make no mistake about it.”

“The kid who throws down the gauntlet to the government will be prosecuted,” Rostker told the New York Times in August. Until then, however, the government is giving people the chance to register late. Mocko recalls that in 1972, when he began working for Selective Service, “about 85 percent registered on time, and about 15 percent registered late. Of course at that time the draft and the war were the big issues, not registration.”

So the system will wait until later in the fall to discover “who we don’t have,” Mocko says. To do so, “I’m sure there'll be some comparison” between the list of registrants and “some other data base, though we don't know which one yet.”

Rumors that Selective Service plans to track evaders through Census Bureau, Social Security, and even school registration lists have been met by counter-threats. Census Bureau Director Vincent Barraba maintains that “information gathered through the Census Bureau will remain strictly confidential, as stipulated by the law.” American Civil Liberties Union lawyer David Landau charges that using any other government lists would violate “the Privacy Act of 1974.” He promises the ACLU will sue if Selective Service makes the attempt.

But Selective Service spokeswoman Mary Ellen Levesque says her agency would seek a waiver of the Privacy Act “if it’s really necessary.” St. Dennis says “it would be premature” to describe what the Justice Dept. will do when it gets the names.evaders’ names, regardless of how they’re obtained. He points out that not all those cases turned over to the Justice Dept. would end up in trial. Between July 1964 and June 1973, St. Dennis says, Selective Service referred to the Justice Dept. 186,711 names of possible draft law violators. Yet only about six percent of those were actually tried.

News At A Glance

President Spencer to hold Open End once a month

College President Samuel Spencer will hold Open End meetings with students at 10 p.m. on the second Tuesday of every month, according to Assistant to the President Ginger Taylor. The meetings, held in the Conversation Pit of the Student Union, give students an opportunity to discuss various issues with Spencer. Last year, Open End meetings were held every week. Although there will be fewer meetings this year, there will be greater preparation for them, Taylor said. She will try to determine the major issues of student concern before meetings and then invite members of the faculty and the administration who are particularly interested or knowledgeable in such issues. Students wishing to raise a certain question or problem should speak with Taylor in Room 112 of Chambers.

Burnett named to new academic & financial position

Chemistry Professor Nicholas Burnett became Associate Dean of the Faculty on August 1. College President Samuel Spencer and Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann selected Burnett for the position, which will involve both academic and financial affairs. Burnett’s experience in financial matters includes coordinating the $1.3 million renovation of Martin Science Building, completed last year. Specifically, his new duties include helping the faculty with grant applications, working with grant proposals for the upcoming Computer Center, and helping Zimmermann with academic and budget planning and faculty searches. Burnett will continue to serve as Chemistry Department Chairman.

SGA elections upcoming: new procedures instituted

Sign-ups for the October 7 SGA elections began this week. Interested students may sign up in the Dean of Students’ office through 4 p.m. next Tuesday. The following positions are available:
— Dorm Senators (one per dorm; one upperclassman and two freshmen from Belk)
— Off-Campus Senators (two)
— Freshman Class Senators (three)
— Residence Hall Council members (one per dorm; one upperclassman and one freshman from Belk)

Voting procedure will differ slightly from last year, according to SGA President David Waddill. Instead of crossing their names out on a master list, students will sign their name and class before receiving a ballot. This procedure, Waddill said, is intended to eliminate the problem of discrepancies between the number of names checked off and the number of ballots cast. Such a discrepancy in last Spring's SGA Presidential elections caused some students to protest the election results. “I doubt seriously if there has ever been any great fraud," Dean of Students Will Terry said, but such a system will eliminate accusations which may be totally fallacious.

The Hair Cottage
Creative hair cutting for men and women
styling - blow cuts - perms - reconditioning
exclusive pro-care products
owner/stylist: Jane Schenck
1757 E. Rocky River Road
892-5107 by appointment only

Chino Pants
Correct to go with your crew neck sweaters or your down vest
Chinos by Levis $19
by V. Berle $26
John Mock & Sons
Downtown Mooresville