(Continued from page 1)

forming new friendships, and there is "not much academic interchange" between Davidson and UNCC, she added. "There is a real opportunity for friendships between faculty members and students," Smith said. Economics Professor Clark Ross, as well as Smith and Krentz, cited athletics as one way to form acquaintances with students. In such friendships, however, there "is an awkward question of how friendly (faculty and students) can be," Smith added. Dating students is generally not a viable alternative. "I don’t think there’s that freedom," Smith said, especially in the case of a female professor. Moreover, friendships with students, while rewarding, may not fulfill the need for a change in environment from teaching. "You see students so much of the week," Smith pointed out. The limited range of activities and people, as well as the problem of "rumor circulating," is not unique to Davidson, Krentz said, but shared by all small towns. Even in a large city, Lesher added, there are the "same kinds of social problems."

Tradition Favors Marriage

"But Davidson does have special characteristics which make single life especially difficult. History Professor Maarten Ultee, who was here on a one-year contract and will teach at the University of Alabama next year, called Davidson the "most conservative" of the three institutions in which he has taught. "The social life here," Ultee said, "is strongly influenced by the religious character and geographical location of the college." Because of the traditional emphasis on marriage and children, "those who are single have to make their own social life," Ultee said. The old role models have not changed. Faculty wives, for example, are still active in the Distaff Club, which supervises activities such as baking cookies for receptions. Many of these wives work. Moreover, new women faculty members are also told they are members and are urged to carry out the traditional "wifely" duties.

Single Women Don't Fit In

"There is a clear difference," Ultee said, "between how male and female faculty members are perceived here." "I have a sense some people don’t know how to handle single women," Lesher admitted. Professionally, they are respected—"I’ve never been made to feel like a junior faculty member," Smith said—but socially they do not always fit in. How can the "role models" affecting women be changed? The first step, Lesher said, is to hire more women professors. The College has already begun making progress in this area, she added, for several of next year's appointees are women. Another goal, Ultee pointed out, should be to provide job opportunities in the area for "dual career couples" so that professors are not deterred from marrying professional women.

A Congenial Atmosphere

Not all social life is glum, of course. "I have no real complaints," Ross said. These young faculty members enjoy their colleagues. They work on projects; Ross, for example, is involved in a West African program for economics, and Ultee has recently sold a book to the Yale University Press. They travel during vacations to visit old friends and relatives. Mostly, they work. First-year professors, as they prepare for new courses, have a particularly difficult task, especially those, like Ultee, Krentz, and Lesher, who teach Humanities. "I’ve been so busy," Krentz admitted, "that problems haven’t come up." Lesher explained, "I came here to do my work and I like doing it," then added, "All I do is work." Overall, the professors agreed, Davidson people are friendly. "You enjoy the congenial environment. It’s very agreeable," Smith said, but sometimes it can get "too comfortable. I’m ready for a change."

(Continued from page 1)

made recently. The minimum sanction for violations is now two terms. As a possible major change, perhaps the Council should "select the Council’s new members themselves," Davidsonian Editor Mark Barrett said. This suggestion is something "we may want to explore," Terry said. One problem with this procedure is that there would be an even greater gap between the student body and the Honor Council, Terry stated. Another suggestion, designed to improveStudent awareness would be a "term by term" announcement of Council proceedings, Terry said. The "number of cases tried and the number of convictions" would be included in such an announcement, McArn said. Announcements like this would "reinforce" the effectiveness of the Honor Council in the minds of the student body, McArn said. The campaign procedure is also "an issue to be explored," Terry said. According to McArn, several freshmen showed concern for the way things are handled. Terry said candidates are now interviewed by the Honor Council before being allowed to run. Terry agreed that, although this introduces the candidates to the Council, the student body still has no adequate means of knowing the candidates aside from what Ross called "cutesy posters." The way things are now, McArn noted, the student body elects Council members on such slogans as, "Hey, I’m a great guy." "I don’t have any carte blanche answers," Terry said, but this is something that needs discussion. Terry and McArn noted that periodic realignment of procedures does occur, but this is due to finding procedures are not workable in terms of certain cases. Overall, Terry and McArn concurred that the current system is "adequate."

No Draft (Continued from page 5)

of international tension and mistrust could help spark a fatal war for the country which would never have occurred otherwise. This would hardly serve to defend the country. Hence, in a general sense, the premise seems clearly false. Even if one grants that the draft always serves to defend the state, it does not follow that it is the best or most appropriate way to make that defense. If one has a moral duty to defend one’s country, then it seems that one should seek the best mode of defense, and this could easily rule out the draft. In fact, it seems a reasonable claim that a properly structured all-volunteer force could give a country its best possible defense. This would not involve stealing a person’s labor, but rather paying him a wage that is at or above the market equilibrium level. Such would provide the ideal situation where the country’s need and the soldier’s desire for personal gain would squarely meet. (This is more or less the approach taken in highway construction, an activity no less crucial to a country than its defense.) If this is the case, then, granting that one has a duty to defend one’s state, it should follow that one would be morally compelled to shirk the draft in favor of the latter approach. Hence, this second argument seems faulty as well. Given, then, that proponents of the draft usually rest their claims either upon the argument from tacit consent or upon the argument from moral duties for national defense, both of which we have found to be specious, I suggest we discard these old sophistical facades and expose the draft as the vile institution it really is. Of course, this is not to say that the proponents of the draft follow from the failure of these two arguments.

ICELANDAIR TO EUROPE
No restrictions
Confirmed reservations
Free wine with dinner, cognac after
No restrictions on stays to 1 yr. or advance purchase. Prices valid from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules and prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase tickets in the U.S.
See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN
Icelandair
P.O. Box 105,
West Hempstead, NY 11552.
Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area.
Please send me:
() An Icelandair flight timetable.
() Your European Vacations brochure.
Name
Address
City
State
Zip

Throughout history he has filled the hearts of men with terror, and the hearts of women with desire.
A UNIVERSAL PICTURE * PANAVISION *
Frank Langella
Laurence Olivier
Friday 8 & 10:30
Love $1.50 or SEASON PASS