THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXIX, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
March 14, 1980

Trustees grant faculty 12.5% salary increase; raise student fees $575
By ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

The Board of Trustees approved College President Samuel Spencer’s proposals for increases in faculty and staff compensation and student fees at their February budgetary meeting. The budget, which will be finalized later this Spring, calls for a 12.5% increase in faculty compensation. Tuition will go up $500 and room and board $75.

“Significant reductions” occurred in several areas, including athletics, the development department, and student services, Spencer said. Widespread, but officially unconfirmed, rumors have it that the athletic budget was cut by approximately $85,000. The library budget was increased, as were physical plant expenses, “purely for energy and maintenance costs,” according to Spencer. Most other items in the budget remained unchanged from this year.

The Trustee vote modified Spencer’s proposal by specifying that all compensation increases be on a strictly merit basis. The original proposal, announced by Spencer February 5, called for a 5% across-the-board increase that would have established a new salary base. Spencer will give a more detailed report concerning the compensation increases at the faculty meeting next Tuesday.

French Professor Hallam Walker said he was “very pleased” with the Trustee decision. While he “would be happier with some increment across the board” instead of the purely merit-based increases, Walker commented on the “good will and understanding on the part of the Trustees” and said he felt there was “a lot more communication and understanding on both sides.”

Psychology Professor and Advisory Council on Finance member John Kello was also pleased with the outcome of the Trustee meeting, although he said he did not know why the compensation increases were made “so discretionary.”

“Having seen the budget in the process of preparation, I can say that President Spencer did all that was reasonably possible,” Kello said.

Faculty reaction has “generally been favorable,” according to Religion Professor David Kaylor. Kaylor said the Trustees’ endorsement of Spencer’s proposal was “good news,” and showed a “substantial attempt to improve the situation.” Kaylor said the request for a 15% compensation increase made by the Davidson chapter of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) was still “justified,” but he was “glad that the President made as significant a step as he did.”

“We hope (the increase) is the beginning of a process, not a one-year desperation move—a process to get the College’s priorities in order,” Kaylor said.

140 freshmen still waiting

Majority of faculty participates in SGA’s evaluation
By ROY FULLER
Staff Writer

About sixty percent of the faculty participated in the SGA-sponsored student evaluation at the end of last term by distributing Student Instructional Reports (SIR) forms to their classes. The SGA bought the forms and will send them to New Jersey at the end of the week to be processed. SGA Vice President Richard Terry said results of the evaluation have not yet been tallied and so the amount of student participation is not yet known.

SGA President John Jackson explained that SGA members feel student evaluation forms are necessary for allowing student input on tenure decisions. He said student evaluation forms should thus be mandatory and used by the administration in tenure decisions. However, the SIR evaluation was voluntary and results will only be for professors’ private use.

Jackson said, “Each year there is a great student uproar about tenure. If students felt they had more input in the decision making of the administration on this...”issue, that uproar could be avoided.” At the faculty meeting next Tuesday, Jackson and other SGA members hope to learn about the faculty’s attitude toward the SIR form and the possibility of adopting it for future use. According to Jackson, the purpose of the SGA project was to impress upon the faculty the importance of student evaluation. “We want to show how serious the students are about evaluating classes. We also want to show the faculty that there is some unfinished business that they need to attend to,” he said. The “unfinished business” concerns the choice of a standardized student evaluation form. The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, authored primarily by Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmerman and approved by the faculty in 1979, includes a provision for student evaluation using a standardized form. The faculty agreed to use the ICES form for a two-year trial period but reneged on their agreement fall term. “As far as I’m concerned,” said Jackson, “the faculty has acknowledged the necessity of a student evaluation form... no form is perfect, but I think the faculty should be happy with the best form available.” Jackson believes the success of the SGA effort cannot yet be fully judged. “So far, we can only say it was successful in the sense that so many teachers (See Evaluation, page 7)

By JIM CROWE and JIM REESE
Staff Writers

Only 38 freshmen were placed on the general waiting list in the results of the eating house self-selection process. However, over 100 freshmen are on the waiting lists of specific houses. ATO, ETC, and Phi Delta Theta were the only houses with openings after the process was completed. ATO had 10 spaces, ETC had 5, and PDT had 7. Thursday, the 38 students on the general waiting list were given the chance either to fill the vacancies left in these houses or to have their names placed at the bottom of the waiting list for the house of their choice. The three Patterson Court national fraternities with waiting lists, KA, PiKA, and SAE, have already accommodated all students on their respective lists. A spokesman for Fannie and Mabel’s stated that they foresee no openings for the 18 freshmen on their waiting list due to the overflow of students from last year’s waiting list. Rusk House anticipates that most of the 14 freshmen on their waiting list will be accepted by winter term of next year. According to spokesmen from each of the remaining Patterson Court houses, students will be (See Self-selection, page 7)

Council calls for bonfire violators
By GLENN KELLUM
Assistant News Editor

The Student Conduct Council issued a plea last month for anyone directly involved in the February 5 bonfire incident to “assume the responsibility of their actions.” In that bulletin, the Council said grounds for punishment were “the destruction of college property, the use of fireworks, and especially, throwing bottles at the firemen and firetruck.” The reports have been few. “There seems to be a tone of self-righteousness among the students,” according to Dean of Students Will Terry. “Only two people have come forward,” Terry said. “We have dealt with one case and have investigated two others.” As for the students who threw things at the firemen, “no one has admitted or reported anyone,” Terry said. “We don’t know who they are.” The consequences will depend on each individual case, “anything from censure to suspension,” Terry said. Certainly restitution will be involved and perhaps fines; however, “I'm not wild about fines, but they may be appropriate in some