Convocation awards given

Chemistry Professor and Vice President of the Faculty Nicholas Burnett received the Thomas Jefferson faculty award at Fall Convocation last Saturday. The award is given for excellence in personal influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship. Other awards included the Alumni Association Freshman award for the highest academic average during the freshman year. Winners were: Elizabeth Kiss, Sara Wheeler, and Ed Whitesides. The ROTC Department named Department of the Army Superior Cadets senior David Green, junior Carl Sofley, and sophomore Todd Cowdery. Junior Ellen Gyauch received the Association of the Army Award for the best junior military science cadet. Twenty-eight seniors were selected as members of Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. They were: Kathryn Adkins, Katherine Alten, Barb Ashley, Alvin Atkinson, David Barkley, Bill Dascombe, John Davis, Sheri Gravett, Lisa Hasty, Karen Hester, Julie Holding, Turley Howard, Hope McAm, Clay Macauley, Ben McCall, Elizabeth Medlin, Tim Newcomb, Kirby Owen, Julia Pidgeon, John Porter, Kevin Pressley, Blaine Sanders, Minor Sinclair, Anne Stanback, Rees W., David Waddill, Kevin Wheelock, and Cameron.

Natural Resources
New Shipment of Natural Foods!
128 S. Main St.
Davidson
892-7521

Tell Your Mother

If your spirit needs moving—move on up to the mountains and the Waynesville Country Club Inn. During the winter season, our 53-year-old resort is a fantastic place to get together for fraternities, sororities, clubs, or just a group of friends. We'll wine & dine you or just make sure there's a nice roaring fire in the fireplace. Or, you can study if it comes to that. Call or write our “Dean of Recreational Activities” today, and let us help you set up a special package.

Waynesville Country Club Inn
P.O. Box 396
Waynesville, NC 28786
Phone (704) 456-xxxx

By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

The Y Student Service Corps and Davidson Senior Citizens are planning to build a solar greenhouse on the side of the depot. The three-day construction workshop will probably take place next weekend, according to Y President. The greenhouse will be located...

(Continued from page 1)

...prospective students, Spencer said in his speech, “but presently the demand of students outruns the supply of spaces.” The program should be expanded, Spencer proposed, to fill this need. Knowledge of non-Western cultures will be essential since the United States is increasingly in a position of “shared power” and “even dependence” on other nations, Spencer said. Earlier, the College had chosen to concentrate in-depth on one non-Western area by establishing the South Asian Studies program. In the future, this approach should be complemented by broader courses, Spencer said. He cited the growth of nationalism in Africa as an example of one such “broad” course. In the area of language study, “what we really need is some imagination,” Spencer said. He suggested new approaches to foreign language instruction such as the Berlitz immersion technique or “a double course for two terms.” Courses could make better use of the language lab, he added. Spencer explained in the interview that he has no definite proposals for the language program but was “raising questions for the EPC to deal with.” One third of all Davidson students participate in a foreign study program before they graduate, Spencer said. He...Unrealistic, Spencer said, since the extent of foreign study has increased phenomenally in the past, from one-tenth of the student body 20 years ago to the present ratio. Funding for language and mental and corporate sources, Spencer said. For example, corporations (Continued from page 1).

"Who organizes a ward of mental strategies into a form of motley resistance against the ministrations of a nursing staff unconsciously bent upon exacerbating the illnesses they ostensibly seek to cure. Like Lindsay Anderson's If, the film often leaves one raging at the brutality of the system used as a metaphor rather than as the ulterior target of the directorial thunderbolt. The pattern of repression is..."

Spencer, November 7, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Y Corps to build town greenhouse located on the south side of the depot, which serves as the Creative sources of funding should also be found for faculty research. A greater percentage of students studying abroad would have another effect, Spencer said. It would simply allow us to enroll more students. Spencer compared his proposals to the new Computer Services Center project. In both cases, institutional commitment to the project depended on full faculty support. Once the faculty was committed to a new curriculum, the Administration would find the necessary resources and additional staff, he said. These are not short-term proposals, Spencer said. Their purpose is to "spark discussion." In the long run, he added, "I think we’ll need more proposals." The next 20 years will probably be as unpredictable as the last 20, Spencer concluded. Davidson's "good fortune" in planning for the future, he said, is that "the fulfillment of our responsibility as a good college coincides with our self-interest."

Other practical issues that both students and faculty members voiced were the effects of the proposals on upper-level courses and on majors. Everybody to sacrifice would be unacceptable depth for breadth in course offerings.

Other Effects

The proposals could affect other areas of the College’s program as well. For example, staffing problems might aggravate the staffing shortage in the Humanities program, Maloney speculated, or lead to a change in the departments in the Humanities staff. The effect of the proposals, if used, on the demand for...

The film upon aesthetic or thematic grounds tend to be buried beneath the bore. This week, don’t make it an either/or choice—indulge yourself and see both of them. The Tin Drum is at the Visulite, Charlotte, November 17-20. Cuckoo's Nest is in Love at 8 and 10:30 on Friday, November...

The only cost will be materials. The United States Department of Energy has given a...

The greenhouse will be a "passive solar design" requiring no motor for heat circulation. During the day, black steel drums filled with water will absorb heat. These drums, in turn, will heat the cool air that enters the greenhouse. This heated air will then rise...

The depot plans to make temperature records and savings statistics available, according to Clark. Sinclair and Y Greenhouse Chairman Albert Connette encourage anyone who is interested in learning to build greenhouses to help. Those who would like information on solar greenhouses can call Clark at the Depot (-5111) on weekdays from 9-12.

EPC Proposals.