‘The baseball team plays Winthrop tomorrow.

Engineering job market found most lucrative

(CPS)—Graduates going into the job market this spring will be offered higher starting salaries than last year’s graduates, but the
salary increases are probably worth less in real dollars, according to a study by the College Placement Council.

Average increases, the CPC announced April 8, are nearly nine percent, although the inflation rate has been 18 percent.

The CPC cited the averages by studying the starting salaries offered graduates between September 1, 1979, and March 6, 1980.

According to the study, petroleum engineering graduates can expect starting salaries up to $1979 per month.

Not surprisingly, engineers of all types can command the highest salaries. Mechanical engineers were offered an average of $1866 per
month. Chemical engineers got $1790 per month, civil engineers $1524, and electrical engineers with advanced degrees $1852 per month.

The high starting salaries have convinced many engineering undergraduates to take jobs instead of going to graduate school, a development
that causes some engineering teachers to worry about where the next generation of professors will come from.

Dr. Donald Marlowe of the American Society for Engineering Education in Washington

(Trey Thies)
Sports Calendar
Friday, April 25
2:00 Women’s Track: State Meet Chapel Hill
Men’s Track: Southern Conference Championship Charleston
Men’s Tennis: Southern Conference Tournament Lexington, Va.
3:00 Baseball: Winthrop Home

Saturday, April 26
1:00 Baseball: Marshall Home
Men’s Track: Southern Conference Championship Charleston

B&BB finally cover IMAC competition — sort of

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

There was much excitement last week as teams in softball and volleyball went past the mid-season marks on their schedules.
Softball was in full swing with excellent weather making for optimum playing conditions. Volleyball teams suffered in 90-degree temperatures due
to a faulty heating system in the gym. Nevertheless, all games were completed as scheduled.

In softball, the number one team, Jay’s Texaco, defeated House of Steaks 16-2. Jim James led the winners with three
home runs and a double and increased his RBIs for the season to a league-leading 34. Bill Dobbs pitched for
Jay’s and limited the struggling House of Steaks team to only 3 hits.

On Wednesday, On Deck squeezed by the DCFers 8-7 in a game that went two extra innings. With the game
tied at seven apiece in the bottom of the ninth, Lloyd Thompson of On Deck was walked by Sam Turner
after a 3-2 count. Sam Kelley came to bat and arched a fly ball over centerfielder Gordon Thatcher’s head for
a standup double with Thompson being brought home for the winning run. The game left On Deck with an 8-1
record and a tie for first place.

In the women’s league, Judy’s Hair Repair captured a decisive victory over NOW to take a two-game lead at first
place. Betty Collins improved her batting average to .468 by going 4 for 5 against the weak NOW pitching staff.

Here are this week’s Top Ten in IMAC Softball:
1. Jay’s Texaco
2. On Deck
3. Beat the Clock
4. Good Time Charlie’s
5. At Your Cervix
6. Bone
7. Old Men
8. Long John Silver
9. Why Not Twice
10. Spencer’s Frat Boys

This year’s volleyball season has been the most competitive ever. There seems to be a greater interest in U.S. volleyball
in general with the approaching Summer Olympic Games. Last week saw the top two ranked teams in a head-to-head confrontation.

Not Net played Bump and Run in a battle of the undefeateds. The match went 3 games with Not Net
coming from behind 6-10 to take a 15-12 victory. Several key players that should be noted for the winners are
Charlie Key, Timothy Parker, and Randy Whitesides. George Harden made an excellent showing for the losers.

In other games, We Spike demolished Hard to Beat 15-2, 15-3 in a match that took only fifteen minutes. Team
captain John Reynolds commented on the winning effort, “It seems that we are beginning to peak as the tournament approaches.
The guys are setting the ball better and our spikes are going in.”

The women’s league saw no major upsets with The Trees remaining undefeated.

This week’s Top Ten in IMAC Volleyball:
1. Not Net
2. Bump and Run
3. Over the Net
4. Set and Bump
5. Spikers
6. We Spike
7. At Your Cervix
8. Set and Spike
9. Bump and Spike
10. Bump

Sunday, April 27
Sailing: SAISA Women’s Dinghy Champs Home

Monday, April 28
Baseball: Wingate Away
Golf: Southern Conference Championships Pinehurst, N.C.

No restrictions

Confirmed reservations, free wine with dinner, cognac after

No restrictions on stays or advance purchase. Prices valid from U.S. from March 10 thru May 14, 1980. All schedules
and prices subject to change and government approval. Purchase tickets in the U.S.

See your travel agent or write Dept. #CN
Icelandair P.O. Box 105, West Hempstead, NY 11552.

Call in NYC, 757-8585; elsewhere, call 800-555-1212 for the toll-free number in your area.

Please send me: (1) An Icelandair flight timetable.
(2) Your European Vacations brochure.

Name
Address
City
State
Zip

ICELANDAIR
Still your best value
