‘would state the needs of a questionnaire concerning rules, budgets, and coaching. The results were used to draw Political Science Professor (See Women's Sports, page 11).

coed sorority 12 17
all women’s 33 34
fraternity 45 76
all men’s 6 1
freshmen female sorority 4 5 4
all women’s 51 16 17
fraternity 0 9 1
all men’s 0 3 0
coed sorority all women’s fraternity all men’s

Results of CCRL straw vote:
1. Freshmen and Sophomores: Select the type of house you would like to join.
Juniors and Seniors: Select the type of house you would join if you had the opportunity to start a new house.

freshmen upperclassmen total
96 265 360

Indicate which format for the other house would, in your opinion, best...

upperclassmen total
221 38 28 65
25 53 9 9
29 67 121 7
male 88 2 5 10
3 311 68 98 78 18

News At A Glance

Labor lawsuit against College begins
A National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) complaint against the College will be heard Monday at the Federal Courthouse in Statesville. The complaint charges the College with trying to “discourage concerted activity among its employees.” Three physical plant workers claim they were unfairly disciplined by the College after circulating a petition among other employees. The NLRB filed the complaint August 7, 1979, after an investigation by one of its field examiners. Ken Chiles ’67 is the College’s legal counsel. NLRB lawyer Louis Lesesne ’67 will represent the plaintiffs. The hearing is open to the public.

Most Union posts filled
Union Vice Presidents Ben McCall and Carol Impara along with Union President Julie Holding selected the following students as Union Committee Chairpersons:
Intimate Performances—Karen Long
Outing—Greg Kucera
Dorm Social—Elizabeth Alexander
Dance—Kevin Wheelock
Games—Dave Hoskins
Pop Films—Tim Newcomb
Speakers—Mike Cooper
Minorities—Ann Parker
College Bowl—Sheri Gravett
Fine Films—Joni Seehorn
Cultural Events—Laura Perry
Poetry—Elizabeth Wilson

Duke money goes to faculty
$245,000 has been designated for faculty and staff support. This, according to College President Samuel Spencer, will improve Davidson's ability to cope with double-digit inflation. "Maintaining competitive standards in salaries and housing is our most serious problem,” Spencer said. The grant includes two one-time gifts of $25,000. One will establish a fund for faculty research, while the other will go toward a new transmitting tower for WDAV. Funds from the grant will also be used for the Beaufort program in marine biology, a computer terminal for the library, and science equipment.

Housing crunch hits many schools
(CPS) Students arrived at the New York Institute of Technology this past fall to find all the dorm rooms full. Eventually, 27 of the students—all of whom had dorm room reservations—had to be “temporarily” housed in what the student paper called “a YMCA-run dorm in a prostitute-ridden section of Manhattan,” a two-hour commute from campus. Across the country at the University of California-Berkeley, the situation was just as bad, though students were moved to temporary housing a relatively short 20 minutes away from classes. It’s happening between the coasts, too: college dorm rooms are filled to capacity and beyond. “Tripling”—placing three students in rooms designed for two—has become a common practice, but still hasn’t satisfied the surprising student demand for on-campus housing. “Nearly all schools have 100% occupancy, if not more,” notes Jerry Quick, president of the Association of College and University Housing Officers, a group representing 550 administrations. Quick says the dorm shortage is the worst he’s ever seen. Demand is at record levels. Housing officers are consequently scrambling for more space to accommodate students. Quick claims one university had to buy a monastery to convert into housing, while two schools in the South—one with too many students...one with vacant dorm space—merged because of housing concerns. Most housing officers end up sending students to nearby campus space that doesn’t show up in the fall. But this fall there were only 35 no-shows, a statistical glitch that forced 157 U-Conn. students into temporary quarters. Towson State University’s normal 100-130 cancellations didn’t come through, either. Places as dissimilar as the University of Tennessee, Clemson, Kent State, and Oregon State University also counted on too many dorm cancellations. Most of them resorted to renting “temporary” housing for students until study and storage space in on-campus buildings could be hastily converted into living space. There wasn’t enough study and storage space to convert at Towson State, however, and about 60 men were condemned to a nearby motel through the fall. At Tennessee, the hotel the university normally rents to house its dorm overflow has closed up for remodeling. When motel rooms designed for one had to accommodate four North Carolina A&T students, motel management complained of damage and evicted the students.

Housing executive Quick dwells on the convenience and popularity of dorm living as reasons for the record demand for on-campus space, but then readily notes the dramatic increase in the costs of living off-campus may well have driven students into the dorms. Jerry Buford at the U.S. Dept. of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) says there’s no study of the cost of off-campus housing, but estimates rentals in “communities with demographics similar to what you’d expect in university situations” have risen “more than 10%” since fall 1978. Large university towns, moreover, tend to feel the political influence of academics, and sometimes that leads to strict zoning and building standards. Those tough standards have, according to Norman, Oklahoma City councilman Charles Schindler, brought off-campus housing development in Norman to a standstill. Existing housing units can thus charge more and get away with it. Strict slow-growth ordinances have also pushed rents way high in Boulder, Colorado, and have inspired University of New Mexico students to stay in dorms longer.

Yet most administrators won't build more dorms. “In one, two, three years, the enrollment downturn is going to be significant,” Quick explains. “None of us are rushing out to build more dorms. We just won't have the students to put in them. That also means there won't be students to pay for them.” On Quick’s own Central Michigan University campus, there are 400 students to whom Quick could sell dorm space this year. “I could fill another dorm this year. I could get it built in two years. By then I won’t have anybody to put in it. Now how in hell am I going to pay for it?”

The University of Kentucky was the only school Quick could remember that was brave enough to build a new dorm this year. Davidson in North Carolina has decided to build two small dorms—at a modest cost of $1 million—to open in Fall 1981. Arizona State is also applying for a government loan to build a new residence hall. Yet the vast majority of administrations maintain conservative housing policies, even to the point of ignoring a HUD loan program for campus housing. A full $69 million is earmarked for helping colleges build new or remodel old housing. Only 400 schools—out of some 3400 in the U.S.—have bothered to apply for the money. They figure, according to Quick, the overcrowding is “a short-term problem.”

Despite a threatened student lawsuit charging Towson State with breaching its housing contract with its students, most students are coping with the situation quietly. Quick has heard “hardly any” complaints from the students in what he calls “expanded occupancy areas.” “But there may come a point,” John McDow says, his enrollment looks solid for the next few years, but frets the “number may decrease because of the housing situation.”