10—The Davidsonian—March 21, 1980

- Sports Scripts

Women’s Tennis

The Wildcat tennis team ran their record to 2-0 on the season last week with easy wins over Queens College and Converse College. Neither match tested Coach Pat Miller’s team as 9-0 scores were posted by Davidson.

The schedule for this week’s play looks more difficult, however. Peace College, Furman, and East Carolina University are on the agenda, and a Cat victory in any one of the three would be a confidence-builder. Coach Miller commented that “quite honestly I don’t expect a Davidson win this week.”

A match with UNC-C scheduled for Monday, March 17, will be played later in the week with a close outcome expected. Also, an in-depth article concerning women’s tennis is forthcoming in The Davidsonian. —VAN BECK

Women’s Soccer

Davidson's Women’s Soccer Club opened their first season with a scrimmage against the UNC-Chapel Hill Club team last Saturday. Though Davidson lost 1-0, the team felt quite satisfied with the game. The play was mostly defensive for the Wildcats, with several spectacular saves registered by goalie Marsha Coates. The Davidson women look forward to challenging this team again later in the season in a home game.

Davidson's first women’s soccer organization is coached by Doug Schussler. Their next game is against Fayetteville on March 23 at Davidson. —PAM HAWKINS

Baseball

Palmer Muench has a lot to be happy about. His players have come back from Florida with a 2-0 lead in the Southern Conference. Coach Muench attributes this to many things, but a few factors stand out. Hitting the ball consistently is an important factor that can’t be overlooked. Among those hitting well are Cam, John Porter, and freshman standout John Marshall. It seems inevitable that each time these guys are up to bat, they end up on base.

Another important factor is pitching. Jonathan Young (3-1) and Diggs Bishop (2-0) are throwing hard and with control. Freshman catcher Philip Gordon says “they’re basically control pitchers.” It would seem that their records show them in control of not only the ball, but the batter and game as well.

Coach Muench feels that another such factor is that the Cats are getting ahead early in the game. This allows the pitchers to relax and concentrate on the batters.

Last weekend the Cats went 2-1, losing to Virginia Commonwealth but winning two on Saturday from the University of Tennessee—Chattanooga. The Cats collected 22 hits. “We played an excellent game this weekend,” said Coach Muench. —JOE FORD

THE AFRICAN QUEEN

Friday, March 21 at 8:00 & 10:30 PM in Love

$1.50

Season Passes available $6.00 Last week for Season Passes

ATTENTION Sign-ups for the following elections are going on now in Will Terry’s office:

- Class Senators (3 from each class)
- Student Conduct Council (2 positions)
- Council on Campus and Religious Life (3 positions)
- Student Solicitor
- Defense Advisor
- Review Board (2 positions)
- Honor Council (3 positions)

Deadline is next Tuesday at 4 p.m.

If there are questions call John Jackson at -6948

Delivery Service

7 Days a Week

6:30 - 11:30

“KEGS FOR SALE”

Catering Available for All Campus Parties and Activities 892 - 8686