March 14, 1980—The Davidsonian—3

Afghanistan Has Had Problems Before
Job Thomas

Editor's note: The break in studies has given us time to rest and possibly to think deeper about U.S. foreign policy. Dr. Job Thomas, Davidson's Director of South Asian Studies, has been reading about the history of Afghanistan and here presents a survey of crucial events in Afghanistan’s diplomatic history. This brief overview outlines problems Afghanistan has had with its neighbors in the past one hundred years. We hope that the survey will help illuminate the present situation.

During the middle of the 19th century, the British gained control over the Indian subcontinent. British rule in the subcontinent itself was direct and effective, but control over Afghanistan, on its western edge, worked through a tribal leader and under some complex treaties. The British were ignorant of Afghanistan’s geography and tribal customs, and the fierce Afghans mistreated foreigners. Some of the Afghan tribes, the Pushtus in particular, lived in large numbers in the North Western Frontier Province of the Indian subcontinent. Although directly under British control, they never acknowledged British authority over them. Their loyalty was always to their tribe and their faith.

British expansion westward in the Indian subcontinent coincided with Russian expansion eastwards in Central Asia. During the 19th century, Czarist Russia annexed several independent kingdoms and reached the northern borders of Afghanistan. Britain viewed this with concern because it raised the possibility of the Russians invading British India through the Khyber Pass. The Afghan rulers became very suspicious about the intentions of these powers. They felt that both Russia and Britain, in their appetite for territories, would not hesitate to make Afghanistan the next area for their fight. Goaded by this fear, they wanted to keep both powers out of Afghanistan.

The growing desire of Afghanistan to assert her independence resulted in frequent conflicts with British India. After two wars, the murder of several British diplomats, and the loss of thousands of soldiers, Britain decided in 1893 to withdraw from Afghanistan. The British, before withdrawing, wanted to set definite boundaries between Afghanistan and British India. The Amir of Afghanistan, Abdur Rahman, in his eagerness to get rid of the British, agreed to this step.

The British Withdraw

The Indo-Afghan boundary line drawn by Sir Mortimer Durand, and known as the Durand Line, was ratified by both parties in 1893. The Durand Line cut across the traditional habitats and grazing areas of several tribes. It also cut across river basins, lakes, and mountains. In short, the line ignored the political and geographical characteristics of the region. The British Foreign Secretary from London and the tribal leader from Kabul, in their ‘negotiations,’ were on entirely different wavelengths. Abdur Rahman thought the line would delineate spheres of influence over frontier tribes rather than be a final scientific boundary. He signed the treaty, but did not initial the maps—he later confessed that he did not at all understand the maps. It must be pointed out, however, that though the British withdrew, leaving the internal administration to the Amir of Afghanistan, they retained control of Afghanistan’s foreign affairs.

Towards the closing years of the 19th century, Britain considered dividing Afghanistan with Russia, but kept it as a buffer instead. This attitude was agreeable to the Russians also, and by the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1907 both the powers agreed to keep out of Afghanistan. At the turn of this century, Britain was compelled to divert her attention towards the growing demand for self-rule within India. Afghanistan wanted to see India’s struggle for freedom succeed, because the struggle was aimed at driving the British out. Taking advantage of Britain’s difficult situation, Afghanistan began to challenge the validity of the Durand Line and claimed some areas within British India where the Pushtu-speaking Afghans lived. The Congress Party in India, which was leading the struggle for independence, supported the Afghan claims. These claims eventually led to war. The British in India realized that they then faced a greater threat from Germany than from Russia and decided to disengage completely from Afghanistan. In 1917 Afghanistan gained complete independence.

Afghanistan After Independence

To preserve its independence, Afghanistan immediately appealed to other countries for recognition. There were, meanwhile, changes in Russia. The Bolshevik Revolution had brought new leaders who were avowedly anti-imperialists. Amanullah, the Amir of Afghanistan, wrote to Lenin, recognizing the newly established Soviet state, and requesting reciprocal gestures and military aid. Lenin replied by recognizing Afghanistan as an independent state and proposing “mutual assistance against any attempt of the foreign vultures” to deprive either Afghanistan or the Soviet Union of their newly established governments.

Soon after the conclusion of the First World War, Stalin, to cement an alliance with the Muslims, convened at Moscow a congress of Muslim Communists. “No one can erect a bridge between theEast and act as easily and quickly as you can," he told them. "This is because the door is open for you in Persia, Afghanistan, India, and China." The Congress later passed several resolutions against the British and other "imperialists," and a "Permanent Council for Propaganda and Action of the Peoples of the East" was set up in three cities in the Soviet Union to serve the Near East, Far East, and Middle Asia. The Soviet Middle East center was established at Tashkent, a city near the Caspian Sea, to serve Afghanistan and India.

Afghanistan Turns to the US

During the 1920s, Afghanistan began to look for aid from other countries and received assistance from Germany, Italy, and Japan. The fact that all these countries were hostile to Britain made Afghanistan search for an alliance with a "third power." In the Afghans' eyes, the United States was such a power because it was not a colonial power, it was sufficiently far away not to become entangled in Afghanistan's internal affairs, and it possessed industrial and economic strength. The U.S., however, was not inclined to assume such a role. One source said, "The history of early U.S.-Afghan relations is the story of a continuous Afghan effort to convince a reluctant American government that it was in its national interest to be represented in Kabul." When an Afghan delegation visited Washington in 1921 as a step toward establishing diplomatic relations, it received a cold reception. President Harding felt that Afghanistan was too much in the Anglo-Soviet sphere of influence for the U.S. to get involved.

In 1930, Wallace Smith Murray, chief of the Division of Near Eastern Affairs, gave the State Department's rationale for a policy of non-involvement in Afghanistan to a Congressional committee. The reasons included that Afghanistan was a fanatic Muslim country, extremely hostile towards whites and Christians, and lacked banking and other communications facilities. W.H. Hornibrook, the head of the American legation in Tehran, visited Kabul in May 1936 to arrange for the accreditation of American diplomats in India to serve as representatives for Afghanistan. The Afghans again requested Hornibrook to establish a permanent legation in Kabul and even gave the American Inland Oil Exploration Company rights to explore for oil with hopes that a large contingent of technicians and their families would settle in Kabul. The Company started prospecting in 1937, but within a year canceled the explorations because of the worsening international situation. A permanent American legation was finally established in 1942. Four years later, the U.S. financed an irrigation project in the Helmand river valley.

During the Second World War, the Germans were active in Afghanistan, carrying on several clandestine activities both against British India and Iran. They even promised the Afghan rulers support. The Afghan king, however, shunned the prospects of making Afghanistan a theater of war and turned down the German offer.

Relations With Pakistan

In August 1947, Britain partitioned the Indian subcontinent into predominantly Muslim Pakistan and "Hindu" India. Afghanistan requested that the areas occupied by the Pushtu-speaking tribes not be given to Pakistan but annexed to Afghanistan or at least given to the Pushtus. Afghanistan's expectation was that an independent Pushtu-speaking area would be a friendly power. Independent India vigorously supported the idea of "Pushtunistan," and is even alleged to have offered assistance to the Afghan rebels. At this point, Afghanistan's hostility towards Pakistan was so intense that it cast the only negative vote to Pakistan's admission to the United Nations.

Also in the late 40s, the Soviet Union and Afghanistan settled their boundary. In 1950, the two countries signed a four-year trade agreement. The 50s also saw Soviet participation in the economic development of Afghanistan. 1955 was packed with events in the history of Afghanistan. Due to anti-Pakistani riots in Afghanistan over the Pushtunistan issue, Pakistan closed the Khyber Pass, which nearly cut off Afghanistan from the rest of the world. The Afghans immediately appealed to the U.S. for assistance in creating a new transit route through Iran to the port of Chahbahar in the Persian Gulf, but both the U.S. and Iran were lukewarm to the idea because they thought it would be too expensive. The Afghans then turned to the Soviet Union and requested a further extension of the 1950 trade agreement. An Afghan-Russian barter agreement was signed which guaranteed the import of petroleum products and materials in exchange for Afghan wool, raw cotton, and hides. The same year, Khrushchev made a much-publicized visit to Kabul and declared Soviet sympathy for Afghanistan.

Meanwhile, Pakistan aligned with the U.S. by joining SEATO and CENTO. This cemented the lines in the relationship between Afghanistan, the Soviet Union, Pakistan, and the U.S. In 1961, after another series of riots over the Pushtunistan issue, the Khyber Pass was closed again. Afghanistan's perishable goods were airlifted in massive quantities to the Soviet Union.

The 1961 border closure placed the U.S. in a delicate position, prompting President Eisenhower's visit to Kabul, both in the economic and political spheres. The border closure strained the relations between Afghanistan and Pakistan.