October 17, 1980—The Davidsonian—7

Hogan's heavy machines turn out ‘peculiar things’

By TIM BETHEA
Staff Correspondent

In the early issues of Briarpatch magazine, there is a note to contributors which reads: “We’re interested in articles on regional writers (those with a sense of time and place), and on craftsmen who keep alive old traditions and on preservationists who save the past from destruction and on local, parochial, and even peculiar things.” It sounds like Briarpatch Press owners Moreland and Priscilla Hogan should really publish articles about themselves and their press. Mr. Hogan, who is listed in Briarpatch as “Editor & Great Panjandrum,” and Mrs. Hogan (“Compositor & Corrector”) certainly qualify as craftsmen and preservationists.

The Hogans' operation may be a “small press” as literary parlance might have it, but the press itself isn’t small. It has machines, black machines made of heavy iron. They have weight. You can see the jaws and guts of these machines because they are not covered in plastic with red digital readouts. No, these are the real things — they do work. There’s a folder there and a sewing machine and a big press that looks like a small fire engine (a bunch of knobs and wheels and stuff to fool with), and beneath it all rumbles a rough energy: this is the stuff that makes books. I didn’t actually see any of it work, but I doubt it’s all a front; besides, the fruit of these machines lies around the room in heaps. Seeing may not be believing but dodging is, and I dodged a lot of books (all in different stages of birth) as I followed Mr. Hogan around.

“You have to like tinkering and I come from a family of tinkerers,” says Mr. Hogan about the machines. “You can learn how to run any one of these machines in a few hours. I spent twenty minutes in the store learning how to run that sewing machine from the fellow who sold it to me.” The sewing machine was built near the early part of this century. It uses a series of tooth-like spears called needles which work in balance with the rest of a mass of arms and gears and screws to sew books together. It’s kind of mean looking.

“I started working near printing in high school and then more while at Davidson. If you look in an old annual around 1964 you might see a picture and an article about a wooden press I built. Then I started typesetting in 1972,” Mr. Hogan says. He then did some work for the University of North Carolina Press and the University of Georgia Press. Gradually, Mr. and Mrs. Hogan became more involved in the publishing business. She learned typesetting and he started designing books. They returned to Davidson in 1976 and bought the Mecklenburg Gazette in 1977, which they published until Good Friday, 1979.

“That was a good experience because we got to know many of the townspeople. We already had friends at the College but we didn’t know many folks in town,” says Mr. Hogan. “And it gave us a chance to learn a little more about what we can do. It became too much. Wewere running flat out every week and it really pushed us on our other publishing obligations.” The Briarpatch Press regularly publishes the Davidson Miscellany, The Southern Poetry Review, and The Southern Friend (also the Briarpatch, but on a more irregular basis). The aim of the press is not to rival large commercial businesses or provide a vanity service but to offer alternative publishing to serious, mostly non-commercial regional writers. The press also publishes specialty items (like the town calendar) and other “peculiar things.” Briarpatch Press offers publishing opportunities for special, short-run works, which may be scholarly, literary, or plain fun. While the press can handle large works (like Mary Beaty’s Davidson, A History of the Town), it tends toward smaller works because they are easier to do. A sample of the books which Briarpatch has published includes: Christchurch, William Styron; Judaculla’s Handprint and Other Mysterious Tales from North Carolina, Julia Montgomery Street; Register of St. Philip's Church 1810-1822; Awakening to Music, Fred Chappell; Pocahontas and the Drunken Waiter, Gill Holland; and The Village Green, Moreland Hogan.

Briarpatch magazine has only just begun, with some design changes yet to be made. The first three issues vary in size, shape, and design but not in purpose. Mr. Hogan says he wants to offer local contributors a chance to get into print, delight subscribers and readers, and advertise the ideals of the press. Briarpatch will soon be in regular editions and welcomes contributions of all sorts; Mr. Hogan says that if anyone can write a better short story than he can, chances are good that it may make it into print. Past issues have featured Anthony Abbott, Mary Beaty, Benjamin C. Garrett, Moreland Hogan, Gill Holland, Nancy McNair, Barbara Winder, and J.S. Winkler.

“How much does it take to get into this?” I asked. Mr. Hogan says it doesn’t take too much money but it does take time and probably a willingness to learn. He is only now getting to the point where he and Priscilla do nearly the whole process. He’s building a darkroom now so that he can develop his own negatives. “I designed this flexible binding which was kind of fun to experiment with, and it’s pretty neat binding.” There the sparks jump. It’s clear that the Hogans are not merely business people but craftsmen. He is interested in the printing processes of the Elizabethans and enjoys working in that same tradition. He’s not in it for money (“No one’s getting rich from this”), so it must be the joy of the medium.

In the September 1980 issue of the Briarpatch, Frank Anderson says in his “The Moreland Hogan, Private Printer’s Patch”: “These are books which have been carefully printed and bound and which bear the stamp of the tender, loving care of a human being rather than the random hyphenation of a computer. In some cases the entire book, from concept to finished product, is the handiwork of one individual.”

By all outward signs, the Hogans are independent people. They work together hard and long on a project of craft, of saving the past from destruction. They create lasting, useful, and pleasing things and enjoy doing it.

(David McCurry)