THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Start over

It is hard to remember any proposed policy change that met as strong and unanimous disapproval as have the Educational Policy Committee’s (EPC) recommendations for changing the core curriculum. Professors and students have criticized the recommendations on both practical and philosophical grounds, and we must agree that the recommendations should be scrapped altogether. The EPC is meeting every week to revise its proposals in light of faculty and student objections, but we feel the committee would be better off beginning afresh instead of trying to rework its fundamentally flawed proposals.

By mandating that students meet most of the course requirements during their first two years at Davidson, the EPC would severely limit an underclassman’s ability to sample courses in departments not teaching required courses. Thus a student interested in majoring in Art or Classics, for example, might have to wait a long time to take enough courses on which to base a decision about his major. The EPC’s recommendations would also drastically increase some departments’ teaching loads at the expense of smaller departments. Dean Zimmermann has said there would be no net additions to the faculty, yet no professors would be fired just to institute the proposed system. He feels the change would be handled through normal turnover in faculty. Yet we question the wisdom of weakening some of the school’s smaller departments, and expect such a gradual method of change would result in a long and inconvenient transition period.

Students would also take more survey or introductory courses if the EPC had its way. Yet students generally find Davidson's introductory courses unchallenging and dull while professors call them tedious and vapid. Upper-level courses and seminars tend to be more productive and stimulating, yet the EPC would admittedly cut down on the number and availability of these same courses.

One major philosophical objection to the EPC’s recommendations looms as large as these and other practical considerations combined: the EPC seems to have assumed that simply because a basic course is generally worthwhile it should be required. Yet requiring so many specific courses takes the decision of how to plan a student’s education out of the hands of those most qualified to make it—the student and his advisor. What may be a valuable course for one person may be a tremendous waste for another. Davidson students have a variety of interests and we think they should be mostly free to pursue them instead of being forced into a common mold. Besides, we expect most students come here desiring exposure to the liberal arts and the “common experience” the EPC wishes to create. The EPC has given us no reason to believe that students are not getting this exposure under the present system.

All of which is not to say the EPC’s efforts have been worthless. We are glad to see the EPC recognize that our foreign language instruction is deficient. We appreciate the long hours the committee members have spent on the proposals. Yet we think their time would be better spent if they started over again.

—Mark Barrett

Congratulations

The team’s trip to the national tournament is heartening for several reasons other than good, and needed to recover from an 0-3 start to have its best season ever. Congratulations.

—Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

SAE Speakers

To the Editor:

Last Tuesday morning at about 2 a.m. I was awakened from sleep by some strange (but somehow very familiar) noise invading my window up on 4th Belk. It was not long before I realized that I was being forced to listen to every lyric and syllable of the beach music being blasted out of the SAE speaker across the Court.It was either listen to that or close the window and be roasted alive by our efficient radiator. Most students on campus, myself included, like to party hard until the wee hours of the morning, but on a weeknight at Davidson, even if it is the first one of the term, there should be some reasonable limit to the amount of noise one house generates. Some people have some studying and sleeping to get done for the next day. So even if the SAE’s aren’t concerned with setting good examples of fraternity living, they should at least be concerned with showing some respect for the rest of the campus.
John Krotchko '83

Death

To the Editor:
It has been brought to my ever-proper attention that Death has become an enthralling aspect of my sensibilities, so immediately that I felt I must speak. The team proved that women's sports can arouse feelings that small faction of us are about. In response to this Death Mania, and as an attempt to direct those members of the Elite who feel compelled to engage in Death in social situations, I have compiled an exhaustive volume of edicts to be consulted when unsure about matters of proper behavior in such situations. This volume, The Everyday Death Etiquette (Vintage, $18.95), will certainly become an indispensable reference book in questions of Death etiquette for your family library. The importance of this publication may be emphasized by the following excerpts from my book:

—In the event that one’s escort should have the indecency to expire at a social event, a letter of apology should be duly delivered to the hostess. Such letters of apology must reflect the formality of the occasion. It would certainly be gauche to begin a note following a formal evening ball: “Dear Mary, So sorry Jack kicked during the foxtrot the other night...” This would assuredly signal the end of one’s acceptance by Society. It is in rather better taste to follow such an embarrassment with this apology: “My Dearest Mrs. Vandersmith, May I extend my deepest apologies for my escort’s ungentlemanly demeanor last evening. His embarrassing demise on the dance floor was horrendously inappropriate. I was certainly appalled to find him capable of such indiscretion...”

—Never consider dying before having been formally presented to the host and hostess.

—When discussing Death, if one is to be so crude, always spell offensive words.

Emily Post

Editor's Note: Copies of Miss Post's publication are available through members of the Sigma Phi chapter of Alpha Chi Epsilon [S.P.A.C.E.] sorority on campus. Volumes posthumously autographed are being sold at slightly higher costs as collector's editions. Requests for copies may be made by calling 892-6800.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
John Simen, News Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Glenn Kellum, Features Editor
Sean Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Bernadette Walter, Production Associate