THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 4
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

Trustees discuss new chaplain position, finances:
By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer with ELIZABETH KISS
News Editor

No major policy decisions were made at last week’s Board of Trustees meeting. Among the most significant actions was discussion of the job description for the campus minister to succeed Rush Otey, according to SGA President David Waddill. The Trustees also elected new officers, discussed athletics and finances, and heard reports on proposed curricular changes, the new computer center, and recommendations for modernization of the Biology Department.

A proposed draft of the minister to students’ job description approved by the Trustees calls for changes in the minister’s relation to the College and to the Davidson College Presbyterian Church (DCPC), College President Samuel Spencer said. The title of the position would change from assistant minister to chaplain, Spencer said. The College would have an “explicitly stronger role” in directing the work of the chaplain. The proposal also calls for “more financial involvement by the church” in supporting the chaplaincy.

(See Trustees, page 11)

Stair chosen head Trustee
By JOHN SIMAN
News Editor

Fred Stair ‘39, newly elected chairman of the Board of Trustees, describes the state of the College in glowing terms but expects the ‘80s to be a “turbulent decade.” “We are living with some economic and political realities some of us have never seen before,” Stair said. Stair was elected chairman at last week’s Board of Trustees meeting. He replaces outgoing Chairman Warner Hall effective Jan. 1, 1981.

Stair, a minister, has been president of Union Theological Seminary in Virginia since 1967. He was a Davidson Trustee from 1954 to 1959, was elected again to the Board in 1974, and has served on it since. Stair thinks one of the College’s major challenges is overcoming the financial problems wrought by inflation. “All of us educational administrators have had to fight inflation,” he said. Stair emphasized the need for “conservation” and “economizing” in College policy. He said faculty salaries were “an obvious point” in economizing. “(Salaries) are fairly equitably distributed. The problem is that they’re not keeping up with inflation.”

(See Stair, page 11)

Martin turns down forum invitation
By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Republican Congressman James Martin declined an invitation from The Davidsonian to speak at a campus forum with his Democratic opponent, Economics Professor Randall Kincaid. Kincaid accepted. Martin and Kincaid are running for North Carolina’s Ninth District Congressional seat, which represents Mecklenburg, Iredell, and Lincoln counties. Kincaid is on a two-year leave from the faculty. Martin was a Davidson chemistry professor until his election to Congress in 1972.

Kincaid’s press secretary Cathy Roche said she was “very, very upset” that Martin turned down the invitation. She said it is “essential that voters of the Ninth District hear both men on their views.”

Martin’s campaign coordinator John McAlister said Martin had to decline the invitation due to “tremendous scheduling problems... (Martin) would have liked to do it if possible.”

October 10, 1980

BARONE
Lena Crawley uses a not-so-modern microscope. (Laura Curry)to Martin to choose a date for the forum. Religion Professor Alexander McKelway, an “interested worker” in Kincaid’s campaign, said the reluctance of incumbents to discuss issues with their challengers is not unusual. “But many do feel it’s their duty to engage in public debate,” he added. “We’re not ducking debate,” McAlister said, pointing out that Martin will meet Kincaid in a debate at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce on Oct. 29. WTVI will also air a half-hour program featuring the candidates on Oct. 31 at 9 p.m. Procter and Gamble is advising against the use of their Rely tampons. According to WTVI producer Tom Clipp, two reporters will ask questions, but there will be no discussion or rebuttals between the candidates. Roche said Martin is now turning down all invitations for joint appearances with Kincaid, including a program at Myers Park Methodist Church in Charlotte and a Senior Scholars forum. McAlister said Martin's tight schedule has forced him to decline many invitations, not only those for joint appearances with Kincaid. Because Martin cannot return to his district until Congress adjourns, McAlister said, he has only one month in which to campaign. Kincaid, McAlister pointed out, has been free to campaign since June. (See Forum, page 11)

Biology dept. awaits new equipment
By ANNE GOODWIN
Staff Correspondent

Davidson's Biology Department lacks modern microscopes. Most of the microscopes now in use date back to the 1940s, according to Biology Professor Jerry Putnam. These “profoundly outdated” microscopes, Putnam said, are adequate for freshman-level courses, but lack the modern features necessary for advanced study. Despite good care, some of the microscopes are in need of repair, Putnam added. But parts are no longer sold. Putnam estimated that new microscopes would cost $50,000. Such microscopes are standard equipment at most state universities. Associate Dean of the Faculty and Chemistry Professor Nicholas Burnett described the problem as one of priorities. In past years other projects, such as the renovation of Martin Science Building, have taken precedence over the purchase of equipment for the Biology Department, Putnam said. However, Burnett said, the needs of the Biology Department are now high among the College’s priorities. Burnett said he expects the Biology Department will receive a significant amount of new equipment within the next 12 to 18 months. At last week’s meeting of the Board of Trustees, Burnett outlined plans for modernizing the Biology Department in general. For instance, Burnett called for increased emphasis on coursework in molecular biology, according to College President Spencer. This would require “enormous outlays of money,” primarily for new equipment. Electron microscopes needed for molecular biology courses would cost $200,000, Spencer said.

Sample issue unearthed
By MARY BARRINGER
Staff Correspondent

Rely tampons, which have been linked to toxic shock syndrome (TSS), were among the free samples of commercial products distributed to women students in September. TSS is a bacterial disease apparently caused by tampon use. Seventy percent of the women who contracted TSS used Rely tampons, according to Time (Oct. 6). Procter and Gamble, the manufacturer, has recalled the tampons from stores. Good Stuff, a national firm, has been over 300 confirmed cases.