THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Budget A Mystery

We can draw two conclusions from the confusion surrounding the $85,000 athletic budget cut. Both are grim. The first is that the exchange of information between the administration and the faculty is muddled. The administration apparently did not expend much effort trying to make clear the exact nature of the budget cut. Many faculty members, including some on the Advisory Council on Finance, apparently did not expend much effort trying to understand the cut either. The administration did simultaneously institute an $85,000 cut in the athletics budget and an across-the-board 12.5% pay increase to staff, yet most faculty and students were under the impression that there would be an overall reduction in the athletic budget. We are particularly upset that the administration made no effort to rectify this breakdown of communications. Either President Spencer was quite naive and did not realize that the rest of the College had misunderstood, or else he was aware of this general misunderstanding yet chose not to set things straight. Neither scenario is especially cheering.

The actual components of the cut lead us to the second conclusion that it is foolhardy to attempt a significant cut of the athletic budget without fundamentally changing athletic policy. We would be surprised to find much fat in the athletic budget. Davidson is an efficiently run school in general, and the Athletic Department is a perfect example. Many of the cuts were necessarily either cosmetic or simply expenses delayed until next year. The Athletic Department is operating this year without any money budgeted for office expenses. The vehicles it postponed buying will have to be purchased next year at a higher net cost because of depreciation of the present vehicles. The $10,000 Lake Campus “cut” merely signified the end of the stables construction project. It seems the cut was largely a public relations ploy to soothe the feelings of a still underpaid faculty convinced that athletic expenditures are too high. However, the faculty must realize that the only way to intelligently reduce the athletic budget is by fundamentally changing our commitment to either big-time football or basketball, not by nickeling and diming the already underfinanced Athletic Department to death. Those who would maintain otherwise are merely evading the problem.

— Mark Barrett

SGA Raises Bucks

About nine months ago some students decided they wanted to do more than complain about the College’s less-than-perfect financial situation. In conjunction with the SGA, and despite an original lack of encouragement from the administration, the students planned and executed the SGA phonathon which has raised $46,047 as of Wednesday night. Even if the phonathon doesn’t meet its $10,000 goal for Thursday night, the fund drive has been a whopping success by all accounts. Everyone involved seems to want to give credit to someone else for the phonathon’s success, but it is not hard to figure out that SGA President Dave Waddill and organizers Derek Harbin, Genevra Kelly, and McNair Helm have seen the project through from start to finish. Also, as Kelly and Helm pointed out Wednesday, Development Officer Mike Daisley and several other members of the College staff have gone an extra mile to make the drive a success. And Davidson's oftentimes apathetic student body deserves a pat on the back for taking such an active and positive concern in the College's future. The phonathon makes us happy not only because of the money it has brought in, but because it marks the emergence of an SGA that has really done something important—and done it well. We certainly hope that trend continues. The SGA and all the other participants deserve our congratulations and appreciation for a job well done.

— Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Crime Ignored

To the Editor:

Sometimes I am amazed at the kind of student Davidson can produce. Late Monday night I was leaving the Union with another senior when she practically stumbled over her bike which had been stolen from PAX a year ago. For five minutes I watched as she recognized every mark, every scratch, every singularity which identified the bike as her own. To my utter dismay she rationalized it away and moved on to the Library, anxious to study for a test the next day! To pass up the possible opportunity of catching a person guilty of a crime—guilty of a crime, no less, to one’s self or who at least might be able to provide information leading to a suspect, is almost more inexcusable than the crime itself. If this one student cannot at least maintain any sense of self-worth, what about her responsibility to society, both now and once she leaves the comfortablysecure campus of Davidson College? Might not this case have helped solve other cycle thefts on campus? No one knows, but what is visible is a tragic abasement of one’s self and ignorance of one’s obligation to the rest of the community. Let’s all hope she made an A on her test.

The Residents of Booty Palace

SAE's Are Great

To the Editor:

Upon first reading Mr. Krotchko’s letter concerning the speakers at the SAE house, I was somewhat amused to find that anyone would complain about too much noise on the first night of the term. After all, if there’s one night in which a student can afford to give up a few hours of study or sleep, that’s the night. I lived in Belk for two years and heard a great deal of loud music from a number of the houses on the Court. However, I’ve always believed that one should be able to tolerate a little inconvenience in recognition that Davidson students be allowed to “blow off a little steam,” especially if the timing is appropriate.

My other complaint is with Mr. Krotchko’s concluding sentence, the first part of which states, “So even if the SAE’s aren’t concerned with setting good examples of fraternity living...” This statement is made on a purely subjective basis, but is stated as if it can be assumed. To the contrary, the SAE’s are very much concerned with setting a good example. The President of the student body is an SAE, as is the Vice-President. Both Student Solicitors are SAE’s as well as three members of the Honor Council. The captains of the football, cross country, and golf teams are also from that same house. Furthermore, SAE has raised over $3,000 for the library this year, and house members composed the bulk of participants for two nights of the recent SGA Phonathon. The people that are performing these services all over campus are the same ones who live, eat, and party at the fraternity.

My suggestion to Mr. Krotchko is that he both think before he writes and also consult Bill Bolding about the excessive heat in Belk rather than leave his window open and subject himself to torture from such a despicable group.

Blaine Sanders ’81

Vote Kiss & Siman

To the Editor:

We have been typesetters for The Davidsonian for the past year and a half (we have worked under five different editors) and we have not always agreed with the opinions the editors have expressed. However, we do feel they have attempted to deal with real issues on campus. The editor’s job is very difficult and time-consuming. Anyone planning to edit The Davidsonian should realize that doing even a mediocre job requires at least 30 hours of work per week. An editor needs to be knowledgeable in all aspects of newspaper work including writing, editing, graphics, advertising, photography, and the way our production machines work.

John Siman and Elizabeth Kiss have spent many Wednesday nights and Thursday mornings this past year editing news stories and learning how to mechanically produce the newspaper. Both John and Elizabeth are hard-working, concerned, and knowledgeable about The Davidsonian. Neither Jean Soracco nor Bill Purcell have very much experience with The Davidsonian. We feel the interest shown by John and Elizabeth in working on the paper as news editors suggests that they will spend a lot of time on the paper as editors. We support their candidacy and feel that they will do an excellent job as editors.

Davidsonian Typesetters

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000, extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Mark Barrett, Editor
Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor
Peter Hairston, Business Manager
Elizabeth Kiss, News Editor
John Siman, News Editor
Rick Jenkins, Opinions Editor
Jeff Herrin, Features Editor
Glenn Kellum, Features Editor
Jim Crowe, Sports Editor
Craig White, Sports Editor
Jean Soracco, Backpage Editor
Margaret Jackson, Production Manager
Kevin Wheelock, Advertising Manager
David McCurry, Photography Editor
John Krotchko, Asst. Features Editor
Jim Moore, Asst. Managing Editor
Mann, Graphics Assistant
Fred Broadwell, Graphics Assistant
Laurie Soper, Graphics Assistant
Karen Sandlin, Graphics Assistant
Jeff Dempsey, Production Associate
David Prettyman, Production Associate
Lisa Buckley, Production Associate
Bernadette Walter, Production Associate