: THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Faculty Qualms Irrelevant

It appears that the faculty will once again have the opportunity to formally consider some method of faculty evaluation by students. (See Roy Fuller's page 1 article) We have every reason to expect that the PAC’s proposal will center on a uniform and predominantly objective standardized form for students’ evaluations. We hope the faculty will put the old arguments against the uniform and objective forms per se behind them and consider the PAC’s proposal on its merits as an example of an objective and uniform form.

Professors must also accept in their own minds what they collectively stated when they passed the Code of Faculty Evaluation—that the Administration should have considerable access to student evaluation of faculty performance when considering professors for tenure or contract renewal. These two objections seem to have been the major obstacles to getting a worthwhile evaluation form.

Students have a right to participate in the decision-making process, and fortunately, the exercise of this right is beneficial to the process itself. There are certainly areas of a professor's performance which students are not qualified to judge, but no one knows better than the student how well the professor conveyed ideas to the student, how stimulating the professor was, and how willing the professor was to work with the student outside of class, to name only a few areas. No one likes to be criticized, particularly by college students, but the faculty must be willing to bear this criticism if it truly desires fair tenure and contract decisions based on sufficient information.

Some professors maintain that students simply are not interested in participating in the faculty evaluation process and will make off-the-cuff and unconcerned judgments, perhaps downgrading a professor because of a personal dislike or an expected bad grade. But as the SGA’s efforts and student protests after last year’s tenure decisions indicate, students are indeed concerned about the faculty evaluation process, and not merely as an outlet for vindictive feelings. Most people mature enough to be admitted to Davidson and concerned enough about their education to shell out $20,000 plus to get it are unlikely to take lightly a matter so important to their education and other people's lives.

Professors have complained that a uniform and objective faculty evaluation form inevitably oversimplifies (and thus trivializes) student opinion and asks students to judge in areas in which they are not competent. Admittedly, some forms (most notably the ICES) ignore the fact that students are not qualified to meaningfully judge a professor's knowledge of his field, and any objective form will give an imperfect representation of student views. Yet there is a real need for some way of comparing faculty members, since the entire process is in essence one of comparing the professors with some standard of performance. Considering that the Administration is also aware of the drawbacks of standardized forms and surely will apply this knowledge when weighing the results of their use, a standardized form seems the most logical way to set such a standard.

Faculty members also seem to be afraid that administrators will use negative student evaluations to justify to the trustees or in court dismissing professors against whom they bear personal grudges. Approximately half of the respondents to a Davidsonian faculty poll last December said they did not trust the Administration to use students’ evaluations without bias. But whether one trusts the Administration or not, the information given by the students’ evaluations would make it harder for the Administration to justify a biased decision, not easier. No matter what one’s opinions on the Administration’s ability to interpret students’ evaluations, it is obvious that the more information the Administration has before it when making tenure and contract decisions, the more likely it is to make a good decision.

The faculty realize the need for a uniform and objective evaluation form. Instead of rejecting the idea offhand, they should consider its potential benefits.

FROST coverage Press Service

The Campus Forum

Bonfire

To the Editor:

As the primary college committee concerned with student behavior, the Student Conduct Council finds it necessary to comment on the bonfire incident of February 5, 1980. The Council deplores the excessive actions of some of the students at the bonfire—the destruction of college property, the use of fireworks, and, especially, throwing bottles at the firemen and fire truck. This behavior cannot be condoned. There is reason to believe that someStudents violated the Code of Responsibility, specifically Section IV: “Misconduct Which Affects the Property, Person or Rights of Others.” This college community is a self-regulated one, and until students assume the responsibility of their actions, the dean’s office and/or the Honor Council cannot deal with rumored violations of the Code of Responsibility. We urge those students who believe that they violated the Code and those students who observed possible violations to report to the Dean of Students or to the student solicitors.

The Student Conduct Council heard more complaining of this “oral discouragement,” the 1971 student body wanted to institute this self-selection system and voted by a large majority to institute it. What's the matter with all you (us) frat boys? Can’t you agree to abide by a decision made 10 years ago by students who are no longer here? Didn’t they accurately represent the way that the campus feels now? Hmmmmm. But anyway, don’t you agree that self-selection is a great idea in and of itself? Those pillars of wisdom, the students of 1971 and our beloved Administration couldn’t be wrong, could they? I think all you fraternities should get behind our Administration and support this self-selection idea 100% — heck, why not 1000%! They're trying to give our students here a good preparation for life and you keep defeating their purpose by introducing selectivity into the system.

My proposal is this: To continue in this vein of self-selection I think that we should institute some new policies around here. To start off, get rid of any of this discouragement stuff that goes on when it comes to signing up for houses. To ensure this, I think that making discouragement an honor code violation would suffice. Next, I think that we should extend the self-selection idea to other aspects of our college life. If it’s good for the fraternities it should be good for the rest of the college, right? In particular, I think that our local chapters of Phi Beta Kappa and ODK should be forced to adopt self-selection. If they refuse, throw ‘em off campus! We can’t allow their selectivity to erode the moral and psychological well-being of those poor students who are rejected. Perhaps we could make them into some sort of “alumni eating houses,” coed of course.

Since registration is already self-selective, I see no need for change there. Unfortunately though, our grading system is hopelessly biased toward the smarter, harder working students. I feel that every student should have an equal chance for an A in Macro. I thus propose a self-selection system for grades to be run in a manner similar to that of the Patterson Court self-selection system. As I see it, the professors would pass out grade self-selection forms near the end of every term. Each student would evaluate his or her own performance and assign him or herself a first, second, and a third choice grade. Of course, shotgunning would be allowed, but that would also entail the possibility of getting no grade at all and having to retake the course. This practice would solve the bias in grading, eliminate brown-nosing, and reduce grade inflation since the professors would set ceilings for the number of A’s, B’s, etc. given.

Finally, I think that all these (See Letter, page 7)

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper's office on the third floor of the College Union.

Editor Ralph Lasley, Managing Editor Peter Hairston, Business Manager Sheri Gravett, Executive Editor John Shuman, News Editor Aida Doss, Features Editor Tim Dwight, Opinions Editor Van Beck, Sports Editor