Reagan’s Free Enterprise Provides The Solution

Eliott Stotler

William French, Ronald Reagan's personal lawyer and close friend, was quoted as saying recently, “The election is a clear mandate
that the programs of the immediate past have not worked and that the people want to try something different.” The
difference in what a Presidential candidate has offered and what he has delivered can very easily represent a shift to
the moderate or towards an opposite pole. What can we expect in the next four years from the man that
we voted into the office of the Presidency? By using his past record and the events of the month after
the election, I have developed a plausible scenario of the future Reagan administration.

The strength of the Reagan Administration emanates not only from the man himself but also from his chosen advisors. Reagan
is a team player and uses his vast manpower resources to form around him a very strong inner circle of
operants plus a large number of enthusiastic and highly intelligent advisors in all fields. On the West Coast, he leaves
behind, but not very far, a group of highly successful men referred to as the ‘Kitchen Cabinet’. Men like self-made
industrialist Justin Dart, chairman of the multi-billion dollar Dart Industries, espouse the same philosophy of free enterprise/individual liberty that will
typify the new administration.

As Vice-President, George Bush will most likely find himself taking a large role in relations with the Hill. His moderate
philosophy and strong persuasive power will help merge the conservative White House with the not-so-conservative members of the Senate and
the House. Bush brings with him an impressive record that gives him experience in many important fields. He spent years
as an independent oil operator and has experience in legislative processes as a U.S. Representative and in intelligence and defense
as CIA Director.

Chief of Staff James Baker will lead Reagan’s White House staff. As a well-respected Houston attorney and Bush campaign operator,
he is a strong and competent manager. As a moderate Republican with a Democratic heritage, he will be used to
pull together the extremes in the party.

Accompanying the Administration is a new Republican majority in the Senate that is likely to get stronger in the next
two elections at least, and a two-party conservative House of Representatives. Reagan should have good relations with the Senate because
its leaders are not just in the same party but, more importantly, are good friends and close allies. Senators such
as John Tower of Texas, new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Jesse Helms of North Carolina heading the Agriculture
Committee which controls the wasteful Food Stamp program, and Jake Garn of the Banking Committee hold extremely similar views to
the administration and have pledged full support to make the best advantage of the 1980 Republican coup-de-etat.

Although no decisions have been made, the appointments to the Cabinet posts are shaping up. In all instances, the candidates
are being chosen for their proven experience in the particular field in which they will perform. As Secretary of State,
Alexander Haig would bring with him the experience of combining military and diplomatic duties as the commander of NATO. The
most likely candidate for Secretary of the Treasury, Walter Wriston, would bring a lifetime of experience in interpreting and influencing
the economy as the Chairman of Citicorp, the nation’s second-largest bank. Thomas Sowell, a senior fellow at Stanford’s Hoover Institute,
would provide a non-political background specializing in Urban Economics and problems as the leader of the Housing and Urban Development
Department.

All of these advisors and cabinet members will be carrying out Reagan’s philosophy in several crucial areas. The Economy. The
majority of the Reagan philosophy rests upon a free enterprise capitalist system and the policy interpretation here will use that
as a base. This system must have three major components to work: 1) private ownership of most of the capital
resources, 2) profit motive incentive, 3) supply and demand price mechanism. If those are all met, the system should work.
Reagan will not use an interventionist policy because he believes that there are inherent and recurrent cycles man cannot control.
Of the most likely policy changes, one of the most effective will be the probable freeze on all new government
programs. Milton Friedman claims that with such budgetary balance, a massive drop in inflation will follow. We can also expect
faster depreciation allowance which will increase productivity due to the...Expected increase in new plant equipment outlays. Those new investments will
increase the output and have a positive effect on major economic indicators. Reagan can be expected to encourage the Federal
Reserve System to curtail the growth in the supply of money. By pulling in the reins on the monetary supply,
the country can begin to tie the money supply growth rate to the growth rate of the economy, thus alleviating
some of the pains that accompany easy credit and excessive money supply.

We can expect a drop in the unemployment rate for teenagers due to the probable elimination of the minimum wage
law for that group. This move will allow companies to offer training purposes to these teenagers while not realizing an
excessive expense. In the long run, this will yield a trained, younger workforce. The new growth of industry from other
measures will reduce the rate for the rest of the working force.

The excesses in the cost of doing business will be eliminated by expelling many of the restrictive business practices of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The OSHA rules will change to suggestions
as the emphasis changes from the present policing to that of advising. The same will probably be true for the
EPA to a lesser extent. Many of their pollution laws will be amended to allow for energy production changes to
reduce dependency on foreign oil. This includes any law or policy that restricts the domestic production of energy—from excess pollution
controls to the leasing of all the government-owned properties for exploration and production.

Health. A thorough investigation of the losses that result from the current Medicare and Medicaid programs through waste and fraud
will take place immediately. One likely suggestion for change will be to have private insurance companies contract to do the
work with the government paying the premiums. While the government programs now have no reason to cut waste, a private
company will have incentive to cut waste and fraud to a reasonable degree wherever possible.

Housing. Many people blame the current low-income housing crisis on rent control and poor management. The Hoover Institute and Thomas
Sowell have indicated the need for the repeal of rent control and the use of a voucher system where housing
subsidies will be given directly to the poor person to be used for the housing of their choice.

Energy. The continued emphasis on energy will be to reduce the dependency on foreign oil and the development of alternative
energy sources. The plan of attack, however, will be completely different. The key word is private enterprise. The transition from
oil to an alternative should be made under the free enterprise/profit motive system that has been used successfully in the
past. Price decontrol will most likely be the first step to revive the supply and demand system. The deserved profits
will allow the energy companies to spend more money on research and production of alternative fuels. Also, as the price
increases, the use of synthetic fuels becomes more and more attractive, gradually weaning the country from oil to the new
fuels. While the profit motive is acting to increase private research and synthetic fuels become feasible, it will be unnecessary
to maintain the costly government Synthetic Fuels Corporation. It is probable that after its two-year funding runs out, it will
not be renewed. As energy advisor Michel Halbouty puts it, the main way to solve our current problem is, “Production;
Production, Production.” As that is the case, we should expect to see the elimination of any law or policy that
restricts the domestic production of energy.

The major difference in the last four years and the next four years will center on the view of the
government’s place in society. The two terms equality and liberty have two distinctly different meanings. If the government is seen
as intervening to guarantee a state of being, then the Democrat/liberal would offer equality and the Republican/conservative would offer liberty.
The theory of giving equality above personal liberty assumes that man is incompetent and cannot achieve on his own, whereas
the theory of liberty over equality assumes that if man is given freedom, he can achieve if he wants to.
The past has given us an attempt to legislate equality. In the minds of the voters, that system has failed,
and they now opt for one that will guarantee liberty. The next four years will determine whether or not what
Milton Friedman claims is true. “A society which aims for (See Reagan, page 11)”
