‘THE DAVIDSONIAN - Founded 1914

What Are You Doing Here?

“Davidson's primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian character for
full lives of leadership and service.” — from the College Statement of Purpose

Ralph Nader pointed out Tuesday a common fact which we all seem to forget from time to time: Davidson is
part of the real world. Nader did so by way of refuting the argument that students should concentrate heavily on
their grades while at Davidson so that they will be ready to face graduate school and ultimately, “life.” All too
many students presently treat Davidson as a doormat, something to pass over on the way to some higher, more meaningful
life. Yet the prevalence of this attitude makes us wonder if Davidson is achieving its purpose of developing persons who
will lead a full life of service and involvement.

Students seem determined to build a wall of books between themselves and the world’s problems while at Davidson. We cannot
help but worry that this wall of books will turn into a wall of money after graduation, and our future
alumni will continue to blithely ignore the condition of their fellow man. If students are not truly interested in service
now, when as Nader pointed out, they are supposedly at the height of their idealism, then we must wonder if
they will undergo some sudden transformation upon leaving and then begin lives of service and involvement.

Our worries about Davidson's success in meeting its stated purpose cannot be assuaged by tracking down our alumni and examining
their lives for indications of service. The problem lies with the students here now. If Davidson is not stimulating students
to become involved with campus concerns and national problems, then it is not living up to its statement of purpose,
which calls for full lives of service, not service after graduate school.

There are poor people across the tracks in the town of Davidson. The College has financial problems, administrative problems, and
misplaced priorities. This nation is threatening to elect one of the most ridiculous candidates for president ever, Ronald Reagan, and
ignoring one of the few ever to seriously and honestly discuss issues and possible solutions, John Anderson. It may be
that to a certain extent college is a time to be selfish and spend a lot of time making good
grades and improving one’s position, but a student’s obligations to himself and his fellow man are not always contradictory. There
is much to be learned from participating in the various service groups here that is simply not available in the
classroom, and much that is available in the classroom but not taken advantage of because students are too grade-conscious.

The grade-conscious student often becomes so obsessed with these dubious measures of learning that he never really comes to grips
with the intellectual issues central to the purpose of the course. Say what you please about a Davidson education, it
is all too easy to simply make good grades by rote and regurgitating material.

The opportunities for service and involvement outside the classroom abound. The SGA, no matter what faults one finds in its
recent performance, does have the potential to influence college policy. (The SGA will soon be appointing new members to several
important advisory councils.) The Y Student Service Corps is engaged in a large number of service activities to the community
at large. We here at The Davidsonian try to foster and participate in serious debate of campus issues and problems.
Davidson’s NC-PIRG chapter is devoted to making governments and corporations work for the people, not against them.

It is a commonplace that Davidson students are apathetic and are reluctant to get involved and thus serve. Yet we
hope that students will begin to see Davidson as part of the world and not a mere prelude. Those who
came here merely to gain entrance into a good graduate school or job do themselves and their fellow man a
great disservice.

— Mark Barrett

The Campus Forum

Cancellation

To the Editor:

We are disappointed with The Davidsonian—last week’s edition in particular. Please cancel our subscription.

Andy Smith ’80
Jim Haynes '80

Voting

To The Editor:

Youth register less compared to other age groups, and of those registered, youth votes less compared to other age groups.
In talking with students, I found the four main reasons for non-participation are (1) don’t have time, (2) lack of
good candidates, (3) unim-Importance of their vote, and (4) don’t have time to register. These are not good reasons. (1)
Registering and voting takes very little time and is very important in determining a responsive government. (2) This year, at
least, there is one good candidate—John Anderson. His credentials are impressive. His stands on the issues are intelligent and forthright.
His optimistic attitude toward youth is refreshing. (3) Individual votes are important, as this is the way your viewpoint is
“tallied up” with other viewpoints, alike and different, to form a consensus in electing officials. (4) Registering to vote is
easy. It takes just a few minutes. Call the County Board of Elections to find out where to vote. To
vote for John Anderson in the May 6th primary, you must register Republican by April 8th. As the beneficiaries of
this country’s future, let’s resolve now to become more visible in the election process.

Mark Reynolds Dodd
Senior at UNC-CH

Gossip Issue

To The Editor:

Reading the Campus Forum letters between SGA President John Jackson and Robert Bowie was the most entertaining material The Davidsonian
has published all year. The literary quality of the slander, libel, and gossip—(whichever Merriam-Webster Dictionary word you prefer)—surely gave Rona
Barrett a run for her money. While the SGA went out of their way last weekend to present Davidson in
the best light possible for the recruits, calling someone an election. I’m afraid their efforts may have been in vain.
I wonder what the high school seniors’ impressions of Davidson were as they read through The Davidsonian Thursday night? Surely
the maturity and kind remarks of the letters presented quite a positive image of Davidson to these students. The Davidsonian
has won recognition from the Columbia Scholastic Press Association and the Associated Collegiate Press as being a “first class” and
“medalist” newspaper. Please editors, let’s not lower the reputation of The Davidsonian, as well as that of Davidson, by printing
letters involving personal conflicts in the campus forum. If John Jackson, or anyone else for that matter, wants to “dick”
and embarrass them in public, fine, that’s their own business. However, the campus forum should not be used as their
sounding board. Now if you'll excuse me I'll get back to my National Enquirer.

Mary Carpenter '83

Absentee Ballots

To The Editor:

On Tuesday, May 6, North Carolinians will cast their ballots in the presidential primary. In order to boost voter turnout
among students, the Young Democrats will be giving out postcards that may be used for requesting applications for absentee ballots.
These postcards will be distributed to each of the dorm rooms of the 450 North Carolina residents on campus. We
urge everyone, Democrat and Republican, to take a few minutes and apply for an absentee ballot. The deadline for applying
for an absentee ballot is the Wednesday before the election.

Edward Lindsey '81
Kirby Owen '81

Letters Wanted

To The Editor:

I am an inmate in a Federal Prison in Memphis, Tennessee. I feel that you might be able to help
me with a problem. I would love to correspond with people in your college. I have no friends in the
outside world because I’m in here. It seems like all my old friends don’t want anything to do with me
now. I feel that a man is only complete when he has a true friend to really understand him, to
share feelings and sorrows with, and to stand by him throughout his life. I’m sure I can find this type
of friendship with people in your college. I’m asking you to please put my name and address in your campus
paper. Maybe someone would like to write to me, or perhaps they would like to know what prison life is
like, and how a man must act to get along. The letters I’ll return in reply will be nice, nothing
dirty or weird. Thank you.

Willie R. Claflin
F.P.S. Shelby Unit 36451-118
P.O. Box 34550
Memphis, Tennessee 38311

Jackson Replies

To the Editor:

Although the sentiment (impartially?) presented in last week’s Davidsonian was not indicative of what I’ve encountered on campus, I would
like to respond.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters
must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the newspaper’s office on the third floor of the College Union.
