Bruce and the Black Anglo-Saxon Punks Psycho—a family film

Remember this summer? Remember the broiling sun, the cold women, the phone bill you couldn’t pay and (above all) the boring tunes by groups like the Cars, Kansas, and Charlie Daniels that made the radio sound like the “Time Magazine Record Hour.” Well, the Talking Heads and Bruce Springsteen have brought us very palatable cures for those Summertime Blues.

The River
Bruce Springsteen (Columbia)
Reviewed by Robert Bowie

Bruce Springsteen's The River recaptures his role as the poet of the American working class. In an age in which politicians and intellectuals forget the problems of the common man with a union card and an unemployment check, Springsteen sings the special stories of life in the streets. Rock forms part of this street environment and so it is the appropriate medium for Springsteen’s subject matter.

This album offers many traditional and very successful songs that will undoubtedly brighten up many bars for years to come. The tunes sound very danceable, the steady beat keeping the feet stomping and the head ringing for close to 90 minutes. Springsteen’s raw vocals grate against the bare sentimentality of many of the album’s songs. The saxophone brightly screams again as it has not since Born to Run. Springsteen justifies all the clichés about being the Boss that fervid critics and avid fans have polluted the air with for years.

Remain in Light
Talking Heads (Sire)
Reviewed by Todd Swofford

Was ist das? Das ist Funk! Jawohl blood, Remain in Light is easily the most exciting and musically creative release I’ve heard this year. Brian Eno, David Byrne, and the Talking Heads have taken almost every musical element of American Black music, added their own psycho-electric sound and formed the result into a sharp, polyphonic weapon aimed at changing our narrow conceptions of popular music.

In the majority of his recording ventures, Brian Eno has acted only as producer, but here the rock pioneer has co-written, sung, and played on every song. His presence adds complexity and fine synthesizer parts to the music without diminishing the unique sound of the Talking Heads. All of the tracks offer a sensuous feast of rhythmic sound that surrounds some very good lyrics. Most of this music could be thought of as “subversive soul” or “punk funk” (yes, a new wave P-funk!) but a couple of the songs fit into a less conventional sense. “Listening Wind” sounds African and it tells the story of a frustrated mojique who wants to drive Americans out of his country (but where is it?). “Born under Punches” and “The Great Curve” have lyrics that relate only impressions of meaning through the use of many overlapping vocal lines. The intense psychedelic sound of “The Overload” rounds out this group of songs that deal mainly with the perils of being involved every day with the human race. Remain in Light makes Disco, beach music, and most pop/soul music seem silly by comparison, so get hold of it and remain enlightened.

Got A Cold? See your pharmacist.
BEEINCELEH, SADLER SQUARE
DAVIDSON, N.C. 892-7211

Text Of EPC Report
By NICK GRAHAM
Staff Correspondent

Psycho. (Hitchcock; USA; 1959)

Psycho should not be dismissed as your average whodunit-thriller. Uncle Alf’s classical “Family Film” (he called it) effortlessly draws the viewer into its maze of false clues by completely subverting the procedures of the genre. This film has something in it for all the family: if your secretary has absconded with company funds, if the plumber has just slashed his wrists, if your adolescent son enjoys stuffing small furry animals, or is merely concerned about his mother’s facial wrinkles, then on no account should it be missed.

This penetrating enquiry into the difficulties of running a small motel without the aid of bathroom scouring-powder or the services of the local plumbing consultant ranks as the finest feature by the universally acknowledged master of the thriller. Samuel Perkins’ portrayal of the Oedipal agony of the terminal taxidermist will leave you in a lather and ready to take a shower as soon as you get home. Catch it, or you'll feel really cut up.

(Continued from page 6)

On open-mike nights, new comedians can gain the skills and experience they need. The Comedi Inn will not go so far as to provide jokes for comedians. Each comedian comes up with his own material, which is considered “sacred ground.” When talking about his own humor, Hanna takes a sober attitude. Throughout his work, he seeks irony and paradox, as his dialogue on “inconvenience stores” suggests. The most important ingredient in one of his own performances is the audience. It determines the course of his act. When an audience has been drinking excessively, he will go for more physical, visual work—“you can’t be too cerebral,” he says. He saves the “cerebral” humor for college grads.

In his Saturday night performance, Hanna faced a special problem: the audience was a group of drunken college graduates. He mixed his act up accordingly, and although he used up more material in one session than he normally does, he had the group rolling in laughter at the end of the show. “And that,” Hanna remarked, “is the most rewarding thing.”

3. One fine arts (art, music, or theatre) (Area I)
4. One philosophy or one religion (Area II)
5. Two courses in Area III as specified
6. One basic economics (Area IV)
7. One Area V course

Timing
The student should complete the core requirements early. Section V, D, 3 of the AcademicRegulations are to read as follows:

3. Standards of Progress. In order to be eligible for enrollment in a given class, each student must meet the following requirements in courses and grade points:

1) For entrance to the sophomore class or his fourth term:
   (a) completion of the composition requirement
   (b) completion of the mathematics literacy requirement
   (c) 8 courses (while 9 courses are normal progress)
   (d) 14 grade points (while 18 grade points are normal progress)

2) For entrance to the junior class or his seventh term:
   (a) 17 courses (while 18 courses are normal progress)
   (b) 32 grade points (while 36 grade points are normal progress)
   (c) completion of requirements in any one area
   (d) completion of all but one course requirement in each of the other areas

3) For entrance to the senior class:
   (a) 27 courses (normal progress)
   (b) 54 grade points (normal progress)
   (c) completion of the first three terms of the foreign language requirement
   (d) completion of all but two courses of the core requirements

4) The Curriculum Requirements Committee will specify standards of progress for students whose records are irregular and who do not fit the requirements for one of the above categories.

Comments and Justifications

Anticipating possible questions, we offer the following comments and justifications for some of the changes that are being proposed.

1. The use of competency requirements as opposed to course requirements is expanded by the inclusion of mathematics. This change is recommended because students currently may complete a Davidson degree without taking courses in mathematics or demonstrating proficiency. Additionally, the committee recommends a strengthening of the foreign language proficiency requirement by requiring completion of a fourth term taken at Davidson. After long discussions with members of our foreign language departments and after a careful examination of staffing and enrollments, the majority of the committee are convinced of the practicality as well as the desirability of this recommendation. Members of the language departments consulted believed that under the present arrangements students often do not acquire enough language competence to constitute the ‘critical mass’ that would most likely ensure a continuing interest in the language and facility in its use. To meet another culture on its own terms, in its own language, is an educational experience so basic and so pervasive in its ramifications that the committee feels it is well worth the sacrifice of a possible elective. The committee also believes that the institution of a fourth course will cause students to maximize their preparation in language and avoid repeating the beginning course, as now they all too commonly do. As the President’s Commission on Language Study has noted, the United States is no longer in a position to dictate to the world on its own terms. We must increase our efforts to build bridges to other societies, nations, and cultures. Davidson must assume the educational leadership in equipping students for their future roles.

2. Although our proposals would require that students take only two courses in Area I, we feel that the requirements have actually been strengthened. Note that students may not use courses taken to satisfy the composition requirement to satisfy the Area I requirement. Currently, students may use two composition courses in fulfilling Area I requirements. Moreover, the fourth course of the foreign language requirement most often will be a course in literature. The committee believes also that a liberally educated person should have had at least one course in the literature of his own language.

3. The proposed Area II requirements differ from current requirements in two major ways. First, students will be required to take one course in philosophy. The current requirements allow a student to take three in religion. Second, at least one course taken to satisfy the religion requirement will be a course that deals primarily with the Christian faith. Currently, students may satisfy the religion requirements without taking such a course. The committee feels that students should be introduced to systematic thinking about the nature of reality and about human values. The committee also feels that the College’s philosophy and statement of purpose require at least one course in the Christian faith.

4. Because a mathematics literacy requirement has been added, Area III distribution requirements have been reduced to two courses. A student may continue to satisfy this area requirement by taking only one course in a natural science.

5. Area IV requirements have been made more specific. The committee feels that every student should have a basic knowledge of Western history. A knowledge of one’s basic cultural heritage is the first step in expanded self-awareness and the best hope for a common ground of intellectual experience with fellow students. The committee has concluded that today’s world demands an understanding of basic economic principles. The following declaration by Ben W. Lewis (American Economic Review, May 1970, LX, No. 2) sums up the committee’s view: “An understanding of economics by all who participate is vital to the functioning and preservation of a self-governing society.” Most Davidson undergraduates do in fact perceive this need, which the committee feels is urgent enough to require that all students take a course in economics.

6. The committee believes that at least some acquaintance with the non-Western world is an essential part of a liberal education today and that a non-Western course be required. The course should be one that provides students with an awareness of the pluralism in the world and a familiarity with other cultures. When a similar proposal was brought to (See Text, page 10)