(Continued from Page 1) personnel in order to save the cost of hiring replacements, Cartmill said. Frank admitted that there
may be some recruiting problems as a result of the cutback.

(Continued from page 1) mermann, was voted down this Fall, although some professors administered it voluntarily. At the end of
Winter term, the SGA, in order to urge adoption of some method of evaluation, organized a voluntary faculty evaluation using
another standardized form, the SIR. PAC Chairman Tony Abbott said student support, headed by the SGA, as well as the
PAC recommendations, was instrumental in the faculty’s acceptance of student evaluation. “Evaluation is designed to serve the purposes of student,
teacher, and administrator,” Abbott said. The student “is recognized as a credible voice in educational affairs.” The teacher “gains a
new perspective on his or her perceived performance.” And the administrator “observes trends of student judgment as a means of
evaluating faculty performance.” SGA President John Jackson commended the faculty’s “positive response” as proof that students, faculty, and administration are
capable of working together to solve a difficult issue.

(Continued from page 1) ATHLETIC POLICY “Minor sports and phys. ed. have suffered way too long,” Terry said. Advocating a
“fair appropriation of funds,” Terry called for a cut in football spending. “However, we should maintain current emphasis on basketball,”
Terry said. “There is potential there for making money.” Terry expressed concern about spending on recruitment. He fears that the
College recruits a disproportionate number of athletes from outside the South, thereby spending on long-distance travel when student-athletes might be
recruited more locally. He suggested a poll be taken to see where athletes are from. Terry also advocated a poll
of alumni to see how they would “respond monetarily if we cut back on football or basketball.” Terry wants the
planned sports complex “to cater to the needs of student-athletes rather than intercollegiate athletes.” Johnston Gym is the “worst facility
we have on campus,” Terry said. Its replacement should be built with “considerable student input.”

When asked about changing athletic policy, Waddill said, “I myself don’t feel comfortable evaluating this. It’s not a cut and
dried issue.” Waddill said that after talking to such people as Trustee Athletic Committee Chairman Perrin Anderson and Faculty Athletic
Committee Chairman David Shi, he is convinced the matter is too complex to allow him to recommend changes in the
football or basketball programs. “We need to continue to examine this,” he said. Waddill pointed out that gym facilities are
“inadequate.” “They couldn’t even teach a basketball class this winter,” Waddill said, because of lack of space. Waddill said the
planned sports complex ought to be built with recognition of wide demand for intramural over intercollegiate sports. “(We need) to
push intramural participation,” he said.

Bowie called for the college to “concentrate its resources better.” That means shifting funds from athletics to areas such as
faculty salaries. Bowie recommends all intercollegiate sports teams be moved to NCAA Division III. (Most are now in Division I).
“It would save money,” Bowie said. “Also, the minor sports could compete better.” Bowie favors establishment of a committee “to
investigate whether the College is in compliance with Title IX,” the federal guideline requiring equity in funding men’s sports and
women’s sports. Bowie said he supported the College’s present emphasis on intramurals and saw no reason to increase involvement or
spending in that area.

ADMISSIONS POLICY Waddill stresses the importance of getting students involved in admissions. He points to the Student Admissions Team (SAT)
as one way of doing so. The SAT, of which Waddill is an original member, now involves about 100 students
who write letters to promising applicants and sponsor Admissions weekend. The only way in which the SGA supports the SAT
now is by giving it money, according to Waddill. “We can have more recruiting weekends and get more Davidson students
involved.”

Waddill favors “looking at an equal access admissions policy.” “The present policy is unacceptable,” he said. “I think I could
come out in favor of sex-blind admissions,” he said. However, Waddill fears that such a policy might be unacceptable to
the Trustees. Thus, he said that support of a fifty-fifty male-female ratio might be more pragmatic. Waddill expressed concern about
the student-faculty ratio. “Every year it’s gone up,” he said. However, Waddill does not fear a general increase in student
population. “The Trustees are committed to 1300.”

SGA Elections some recruiting problems. There may also be a problem with morale among the coaches and players, Frank said.
“They don’t know how their program will be affected.” Cartmill agreed that this is a “low morale period for them.”
Physical Education Director Sterling Martin said that any reaction now would be “premature without knowing where the cuts are.” If
all the cut entails is a “tightening of the belt, then I can accept that,” Martin said. “Right now, I
can’t say anything without an itemized report from President Spencer.” Women’s Sports Director Pat Miller declined to comment on the
budget cutback. Cartmill said that the Athletic Department will evaluate the impact when the finalCuts are made and a report
is released. “Dean (Zimmermann) and I are working on that now,” Cartmill said.

(Continued from page 8)

Dear Muscle Brain,

The viability of your ideas directly correlates with your IQ. In other words, you’re only smart enough to field an
occasional ground ball. Your stupidity is only exceeded by your delusions of intelligence. Forget it, bird head.

- Band BB

Dear A. v. BB,

Cognizant of your political acumen, I proffer a couple of questions. Let me start with the third part of my
first question. Why the hell did we not heed the warning and build up security around the Iranian embassy before
it was overrun by terrorists? Huh? Also, as a corollary to part 2A of my second question, why did we
let the Russians roll into Afghanistan without a stand? Dang it! We've got to get tough. I’m willing to fight
for my country. How about you, you 60-year-old students?

Bowie said the total student population “doesn’t matter so long as the student-faculty ratio remains the same.” Bowie advocates open
admissions for women unconditionally. Terry said he is ‘scared’ by the size of the freshman class. He wonders if a
400-student class is a fluke or an indication of a growing student body. “The Commons will accommodate 1600 students,” Terry
said. Whatever policy the College develops about student population, “we should have input on it.” Terry favors equal access admissions.
The present system is “just plain discrimination.” A lower male-to-female ratio would be “socially much more healthy,” he said.

COLLEGE MONEY PROBLEMS

“A lack of money is hurting Davidson most,” Waddill said. “We should get students involved in the Development Office.” “We
need to give the 1987 Program a hard look,” he added. “Only thirty percent of alumni give.” Waddill feels fundraising
efforts have been inadequate. Terry feels that the level of faculty salaries at Davidson places it near the national average.
“We have to decide whether we are just going to keep up with inflation or compete with better schools,” he
said. He recommends comparing ARA Slater with competing food services to see if a better financial arrangement can be made.
Bowie said he would like to lead an investigation of the Development Program. He feels that present fundraising efforts are
inadequate.

Student involvement in fundraising activity is desirable, Bowie said. “It may not be the responsibility of the student to get
involved,” Bowie said, “but it is the responsibility of the student government to provide that opportunity.” Bowie also presented a
series of miscellaneous positions. He advocates computer selection of Honor Code trial juries to “make people more aware of the
Honor Code by wider participation.” Thus, any student could be selected. Bowie proposes a complete review of self-selection. He favors
a 4-1-4 semester system. Waddill summarized his goals by saying, “I think it’s time the SGA involved more students in
decisions.” He noted that women have not been treated fairly at Davidson and many recognize that.

March 21, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

B&BB

Dear woman? I really respect you as a person, but I think you're a pansy. Prose is wrong with you?
And to summarize part IV a)D of my corollary to question Ib2, what’s wrong with me?

— Generalissimo Franco

Dear A. v. BB,

Cornfields of the Piedmont. What a trip! Everybody brought books. It’s a strange school. My question is—what did I do
to deserve the onslaught I received there?

Hodding Carter

Dear Hoddy Toddy Carter,

We didn’t realize you were an SAE. Welcome to the fold. The Generalissimo is a pledge this year and we're
looking forward to having you both at our next party. Remember that there’s only one Generalissimo.

- Band BB

SPE’s have announced its pledge of the year. It’s Burpy McDildo with the eternal pledge Hooper Alexander IV a close
second. Remember, the only good SPE is one who chews on sparrows. Next Week: the big softball issue. Hope to
see you at the IMAC fields this week.

—Cartmill—

(Continued from page 1)

Spencer said, “I am glad that as Professor of Physical Education he is staying with us to give direction and
further development to our broad program of physical education and recreational sports.” Cartmill, 57, is a graduate of Springfield College.
Prior to his appointment at Davidson, he served as athletic director of St. Lawrence University, coach and Dean of Men
at Union College, and athletic director at Friends School in Baltimore.

—McGavock—

(Continued from page 4)

Director of the NCFP. He was a
