Jonathan Keith’s sports photos are on display in the Union Gallery.

October 31, 1980—The Davidsonian—9

Wildcats beat Hampden-Sydney 14-7, Sinclair sets 2 rushing records

By VAN BECK
Staff Writer

Junior quarterback Brian Whitmire brought the Wildcats from behind and paced Davidson to a 14-7 victory Saturday over Hampden-Sydney. Davidson, highly favored going into the contest, trailed after three quarters but rallied in the final quarter behind Whitmire and split end Gifford Piercy to down the homestanding Tigers. The Wildcats upped their record to 4-3 on the year.

Hampden-Sydney frustrated Davidson throughout the first half with an efficient passing game and a stingy defense which stymied the ’Cats until the fourth quarter. The only points of the opening half came on a 3-yard run by Tiger tailback Dave Thatcher. Split end Scott Moorhead sparked the drive with a 40-yard reception on a halfback pass. Moorhead gave the Davidson secondary fits all afternoon as he hauled in nine catches for 132 yards. Davidson generated very little sustained offense in the first half and seemed to be headed for its third consecutive loss, this time to an underdog.

The third quarter provided more of the same and the soggy field conditions and chilly, rainy weather rendered the possibility of a Wildcat comeback bleak indeed. But enter Whitmire here. The 6’4” junior—wearing a protective jacket because of injuries sustained last week—paced the late ’Cat surge. First, with the clock inside ten minutes, Whitmire engineered an 89-yard scoring drive culminated by a 27-yard touchdown pass to Gifford Piercy. Wayne Paymer booted the PAT and matters were tied at seven apiece with 8:11 remaining. Safety Bill Price next provided the heroics with an interception of a Tiger pass which gave Davidson possession at the Hampden-Sydney 47-yard line. Whitmire again rose to the occasion. Faced with a fourth-and-2 situation at the Tigers’ 16, Coach Ed Farrell called for the same pass play which produced a score only minutes earlier. But Whitmire, instead of forcing a pass when his receivers were blanketed, calmly tucked in the pigskin and sprinted 11 yards for the winning score.

On the afternoon Whitmire completed 11 of 21 passes for 100 yards while fullback Ray Sinclair rushed for 86 yards on 26 carries to establish Davidson season and career records. Sinclair has now accumulated 1,671 career yards, 74 more than Page Walley.

Women end with sweep; men go to S.C. meet Sat.

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The Davidson women’s cross-country team took the top four places Saturday in a 5000-meter race, defeating UNC-Wilmington 20-35 in the final meet of the 1980 season. The men’s team won two out of three dual meets Saturday to close out the regular season.

The women finished their season with a 3-5 record, while the men boosted their tally to 9-5, with the men’s Southern Conference Championship to be held Saturday.

Cross country coach Sterling Martin said that the women’s final victory at UNC-W was the squad's best run of the year. “It was a very difficult race because the weather was cold, rainy, and windy, and a lot of the course was on a sandy terrain.” Marian Hill placed first in the meet with a time of 21:01, while Melissa Peacock (21:15), Tamara Foreman (21:42), and Merris Hollingsworth (22:06) followed in the second, third, and fourth places respectively. Nancy Wright placed in the top ten with a time of 24:00. Davidson runners Carrie Nunn and Jane Thompson were not able to compete in Saturday’s race.

The men’s team competed Saturday against Campbell College, the Citadel, and UNC-W. In dual meets, the squad beat Campbell (27-28) and UNC-W (15-49) and lost to Citadel (24-81), though Davidson placed third of the four teams in overall standings.

John Davis (34:13) led the Wildcats with a fourth-place finish, with Randy McManus (34:47) sixth, and Jeff Morrow (34:54) eighth.

Danny Armisted (36:03), Bart Landess (36:17), John Reese (36:53), and Terry Morrow (37:06) all placed among the top twenty runners. Martin commented, “This was an exciting race. Campbell has beaten us, then we had beaten them in the state meet when their top man dropped out. And of course, we were worried about how we would do against Citadel.”

Martin added that the course was a difficult one, including over one mile of sandy terrain.

The men’s team goes to Furman Saturday at 11:00 against stiff competition for the Southern Conference Championship.