February 8, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

The Draft Fits Our Policies
Bob Barnes

Tim Dwight’s column, “What Are We Fightin’ For?” (Davidsonian, February 1, 1980) brings up many pertinent issues and asks many
good questions. However, the answers to these questions, and Mr. Dwight’s conclusion, leave much to be desired. Dwight summarizes his
column in his final statement: “... the real weakness lies in individual Americans who don’t want to fight.” On the
contrary, it takes little courage to say you do not want to fight. Agreed that it does take something (though
I’m not sure what) to say no to the extent of absolutely refusing to fight. It takes me little courage
to state that I do not want to fight; I do not want to fight any more than any other
Davidson student, or for that matter, anyone else in the nation, but I realize that there may come a point
when fighting is the only answer. At this point, we must be ready.

It is generally agreed that, at present, the United States is not adequately prepared to take appropriate action to defend
itself or its interests. It is with this in mind that I fully support President Carter’s call to revive the
draft. A reinstatement of the draft does not in any way mean that there will be a war. On the
contrary, it may be that such action would prevent a war. In any event, the draft is a necessary step
in ensuring that the United States, as well as all other nations whose people so choose, remains free. It is,
however, only a first step. Hopefully, no more action will be needed, but if they are, Americans must be willing
and able to stand up and fight for their beliefs and for their future. Thomas Paine may have said it
best: “Those who expect to reap the blessings of freedom must undergo the fatigue of supporting it.”

In giving his “hindsight is always 20/20” history lesson, Mr. Dwight hypothesizes that “If this large group of passive nonsupporters
had spoken out from the beginning, there would have been no Vietnam War.” Here I must disagree: A Vietnam War
would have occurred no matter what took place in the United States. It is debatable how much of a war
would have resulted, or how different the results would have been without American intervention, but there would have been a
war. Voiced opinions in great quantity could, however, have played a part in determining America’s role in the war.

The United States (both its government and its people) react to situations like the ones in Vietnam (in the past)
and Iran and Afghanistan (in the present) because it respects the rights of the individual. Forceful, military aggression by governments
that inhibit these individual rights cannot go unanswered. America is, without a doubt, recognized as the leader of the free
world. It is, therefore, our duty and responsibility to react first, as well as strongest, in all aspects when such
an invasion occurs.

Mr. Dwight also brought up the question of American dependency on foreign oil. It would be great if we could
survive without any oil from abroad. This, however, is unrealistic. Congress (See Draft, p. 11)

Bob Barnes is a freshman.

Debate Societies Come Alive Again After Their Near Disappearance
Johnson Vail

Our two debate organizations have been going through some hard times during the past decade. However, interesting developments in the
Philanthropic (Phi) and Eumenean (Eu) Literary Societies are taking place this year. Recently the Phi Society voted to maintain an
all-male membership, while the Eumenean Society is in the reorganizing stages of membership including women.

Each of the societies suffered badly during the late 60s and early 70s because of student rejection of tradition. Tradition,
in which both the societies are inveterately established, is finding new outlets of expression. Not only are such outward traditions
of Phi—as formal apparel and Parliamentary procedure in meetings—venerated, but also the...Inner traditions of clear thinking and eloquence in speech.
These values were the purpose of the founding of both societies. The two literary societies were founded with the College.
These societies remained the most powerful organizations on the campus until the rise of the fraternity system in the early
20th century, the initiation of the SGA in 1910, and the opening of the Union Library. Before these events, the
two secret societies controlled many activities. They planned disciplinary procedures and cultural events, and maintained the only libraries of the
school in their respective buildings facing the old campus quadrangle (now Cunningham Fine Arts Center).

During the recent anti-tradition decades, the lack of student initiative reduced the membership of the Phi Society to one in
1968, and dissolved the Eumenean Society. During the mid-70s, Phi experienced an inner power struggle between the SAE and SPE
fraternities for domination of the society. This increased its membership to an effective level. Phi President Martin Hunter, the first
member to break the fraternity struggle, now runs a diverse group of 20 male members, many of whom are in
high positions of other student organizations.

The Eumenean Society, on the other hand, is just beginning to pick itself up after its decade of inactivity. President
Andy Umhau suggests that Eumenean will offer an alternative to the rigid structure of Phi. Eumenean, traditionally composed of non-North
Carolinians, has tended in the past to be less conservative than Carolinian Phi. While today neither society maintains the old
state guidelines, the liberal-moderate vs. conservative distinction remains. Their respective acceptance and membership illustrate their different attitudes. Phi accepts only
candidates which they invite, and screens them for admittance into the Society. It seeks those who “see the value of
tradition, and show interest in the Society,” Hunter says. The format of much of the meeting is discussion with emphasis
on clear speaking and orderly thought on such issues as philosophy, government, and internal affairs of the Listiahaxnn. It does
not try to be a popular organization, suggesting reforms for the college, but works individually among the members and faculty.

Eumenean Society, however, is proposing admission to any who want to join. Since attendance at meetings will not be required,
the success of this will depend upon the loyalty of the members. Eu will concentrate upon speaking abilities, and will
have open discussions with faculty members. The greatest indication of conservatism in Phi is its recent decision to keep a
males-only status. As with fraternities, Phi has the right to exclude women. Presently there are not enough females interested in
the society to suggest that the “Society would improve by this departure from the status quo,” Hunter says, “but the
recent decision does not exclude the possibility of accepting women in the future.”

The determination of the future status of the Phi Society depends upon female initiative. If a number of interested and
knowledgeable women were to express a wish to join, Phi would have an important decision to make. If they should
decide to exclude them, it would be to their disadvantage. The rising professionalism among women in the business world must
be recognized, and a capacity to negotiate with them must be fostered. If the members feel that they would be
hampered by the presence of women who are their equals, then they will always act with this disposition towards women.
This may be tradition, but it has no purpose in today’s world.

In the meantime, women can attend scheduled open debates and lectures given by the Philanthropic Society, or help reorganize the
Eumenean Society into a productive organization. There is indeed room for both societies on this campus. A healthy intellectual competition
apart from classes and GPAs could benefit the school and its students. The division between the two could achieve what
it set out to accomplish: clear thinking and eloquence in presenting ideas.

Johnson Vail is a freshman.
