Davidson's new family, Som Chai, Som Mouth Manivong, Syma Inthanonh, and baby.

March 21, 1980—The Davidsonian—3
(Trey Thies)

Laotian refugees make their way to Davidson
By NANCY McNAIR
Staff Writer

On February 14, 1980, as much of the Davidson Community anticipated valentines, members of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church Service
Committee received a more corporeal symbol of love. A family of four Laotian refugees found their way to Davidson under
the committee’s sponsorship. They became the third adopted refugee family to join the Davidson community since last summer.

Syma Inthanonh greets his reporter-guest with a slight bow, which his wife Som Mouth Manivong seconds as their three-year-old son
grasps her skirt. Her eleven-year-old brother Som Chai grins, a crayoned paper shamrock pinned to his sweater. Somehow they appear
vaguely out of place, these Laotians transplanted to Lakeside apartments in Davidson. Yet they also look as though they already
belong, sitting comfortably on the tailored sofa in their living room.

Syma emerges as the most confident spokesman of the family; since he works, he has more opportunities to practice his
English. His name also gives him the advantage, as it proves more approachable to a lazy Western tongue. Som Mouth
occasionally interjects a sentence. “I like Davidson,” declares Syma. “Davidson is same as Luang Prabang in Laos. Is small.” Between
the two of them, facts emerge: Som Mouth has a mother in Arkansas... Som Chai is in sixth grade. Syma
has worked as a laboratory technician in a clinic, and Som Mouth as an elementary school teacher in Laos.

The small talk dissipates, however, because what Syma really wants to talk about are the Communists. “Laos Communist not good
for people,” he states. “Everybody in Laos like to escape his home to other country. Every people have been hard
work—no rice, no medicine when sick. Everybody must work for government. They make rice to send to Communist Vietnam.”

Som Mouth runs to the kitchen, returning with two bags of rice. One says “sweet rice” and contains what looks
like cracked grains, the other is simply long grain rice but in a larger bag than usual for Americans. Som
Mouth looks up a word for the sweet rice in her Laotian-English dictionary. The word is “glutinous.” Apparently, the Laotians
prefer the sweet rice, but the new regime will only allow them to grow the other kind, and then only
gives them two kilos of that each month. “If we have chicken, only have one or two; not have many;
different before,” adds Syma.

With a family to support, many of Syma’s complaints seem to be economic; rampant inflation in Laos minimized the worth
of his wages: “My salary 6,000 Kip. Sixteen kilo rice—10,000 Kip.” Som Mouth adds, and he translates: “One kilo meat—2,000
Kip.” Twice the government devalued the Kip as well. Displaying the silver chain about his neck, Syma indicates that people
sold their possessions to buy food. “When sick—no emergency—must have village permission to go hospital. Even if dying.” He adds,
“If you want go to other towns, must have permission.”

“For everything—medicine, food, books, rice—from UNICEF, America, Thai, Japan—he said from Soviet. No gift—we must buy.” Eventually, the Communists separated
Syma from his family, sending him to Northern Laos. But he opted for a more dangerous separation and recounts the
tale of how he paid 25,000 Kip for permission to travel from Luang Prabang to Vientiane. Both Som Mouth and
Syma gesture as though holding up paper money to a corrupt official. In terse terms, Syma narrates his escape: “Because
I don’t like Communists...”Forty-five minute swim in the Mekong River... Eight o’clock at night...” He made his way to a
refugee camp in Thailand, later working for two American doctors and saving to bring about the escape of his family.
“It is very expensive for women and children (to escape).” After five months in the camp, they immigrated to the
U.S. Two days after landing in San Francisco, they found a home in Davidson.

Mrs. Betty Cumming, an elder in the church and active member of the service committee, described the church’s decision to
aid in refugee relocation: “Our church has always been in touch with Church World Service. They made a great plea
for sponsors of refugee families, and we talked about whether we could help in that effort.”

“We decided that we needed to be able to guarantee to the refugee family a place to live, a job
for the wage earner, free medical and dental service, clothing, household supplies, food, and help with the language.” Generously, community
members came to their aid, the town physicians and dentists offering their services, volunteers preparing to teach English, and committee
members assembling collections of clothing in the proper sizes.

The committee members understood the need of the family to join its larger family. “They left, but we were not
cast down because we felt that we had given them a good start... given them confidence in the friendliness of
Americans,” said Mrs. Cumming.

The first refugee family, boat people from Vietnam but of Chinese extraction, arrived in the middle of last summer. “The
Communist regime in Vietnam had been systematically persecuting people of Chinese origin,” she said. The family soon made contact with
an uncle in California and subsequently joined him. Mrs. Cumming noted that “There is a tremendous compulsion among these people
to get families together.” She remembers the wife asking upon leaving, “Why in America family not live together? Very sorry
to leave but uncle oldest member of family. We must obey.”

Each of the wage earners found a position with the Davidson College Grounds Department through the efforts of committee member
Irving Brawley. “Mr. Brawley, having served in Vietnam, was particularly eager to help,” said Mrs. Cumming. “He had seen such
suffering.”

Under the guidance of Committee Chairman Anne White, the group decided to take on another family, this time Cambodians of
Chinese descent, a young couple with two young daughters. “The Cambodians were almost the most pathetic group,” stated Mrs. Cumming.
“There were two corrupt regimes after the war, you know, the Pol Pot and the Khmer Rouge, who fought each
other. The civilians had taken the brunt of this. They began sending people far away from their homes, harvests were
not planted...”

Struck by the dramatic elements of these people's lives, Mrs. Cumming recounted an incident which occurred in the waiting room
of the doctor's office: “The wife picked up a copy of Time magazine and saw the photographs of the boat
people. She saw a picture of a woman with a dying boy in her arms and grew excited, saying ‘Me,
me, me!’” Through a minister who had learned the language while doing missionary service, they learned that the woman had
lost her baby boy when she stepped on a land mine as she fled. “And there was I, the first
person that she’d been able to tell about the little boy there in the doctor's office,” exclaimed Mrs. Cumming.

Refugees in Charlotte; Syma, Som Mouth, and their family to Davidson. Mrs. should call either the church office, Mrs. Anne
White, or Mrs. Betty Cumming.
