Bill Bolding played in the donkey baseball game last Saturday. (David McLean) Smith Flowers 302 Smith Circle Cornelius N.C. 892-8856 “Remember Mother’s Day at Smith Flowers.”

COTTON, MASTERCRAFTED. Finest, pure cotton knit. Given form, color, a friendly nce. And mercerized to keep the lasting appearance of a true classic. Exciting solids and stripes by IZOD, and MUNSINGWEAR. And a great group of Tennis shorts also to greet you.

Downtown Mooresville April 25, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

(Continued from page 3)

football” by Dave Rice, ex-football coach and now Athletic Director at New York’s Fordham University. Fordham’s Division III football team has a budget of $35,600. Rice said Fordham’s recent decision to stay in Division III and to play only Division III teams led to the “loss of a very important part of our collegiate atmosphere in the fall.”

The Final Alternative: Dropping Football

Playing in Division III would save the college some money, but the amount is uncertain. “I am of the opinion,” Farrell said, “that if the economy of (football spending) gets so bad we can’t run it on a quality basis, we should drop football and go club.” Cartmill agreed. “If money is the overriding factor for going to Division III, consideration should be given to dropping football,” he said. However, Farrell added, “when you start eliminating visible programs, it will have an adverse effect.”

Institutions which have dropped football for financial reasons show mixed results in football alumni giving. Marquette University discontinued their football program in 1961. Sports Information Director Betsy Bjaoobok said alumni giving was not affected. “We don’t have an athletic booster organization,” she added, “so there is no money specifically designated for athletics.” University of Bridgeport’s Athletic Director Francis Poisson said “the President claims alumni giving has gone up” since football was dropped in 1974, although the School of Physical Education was “practically destroyed.” Football Coach Bob Larsen said the effect on University of Chicago’s alumni giving when football was phased out in 1939 was “not too much.” Chicago has now reinstated an NCAA Division III team with a $5000 budget. However, George Washington University Athletic Director Robert Faris said the 1976 decision to stop the football program had a “sizable effect” on alumni spending. Carnegie said he did not think that if football were cut minor sports at Davidson could “bring in the same quantity of funds.” It is especially difficult to raise

(Continued from page 1)

excess of $800 from Byrd, who said the merchandise would be in the mail in four to six weeks, PiKA member Mark Carpenter said. Other fraternities and eating houses’ orders brought the total to around $3000. Byrd insisted the checks be made out to him personally. Barkley said that Byrd gave them convincing reasons why the checks should be made in this way. “He was really smooth,” Barkley said. Carpenter said that he became worried a few days ago when the merchandise had still not arrived. “We called a toll-free number that Byrd had given us, and we found it and an alternate number to be disconnected,” Carpenter said. Carpenter then called the Better Business Bureau in Charlotte. “They said they knew nothing about the company,” Carpenter said. A call was then placed to the Seneca, S.C. Chamber of Commerce. The Chamber of Commerce identified Mr. Lunsford as President of Specialty Sportswear International, Byrd’s employer. “Mr. Lunsford told us that he was concerned,” Carpenter said. “Heassured us that his company was still in business,” money for minor sports, he added, because he does not know how much is needed: “Please somebody say how much,” he said, “and raise money.”

Decision Once and For All

Football at Davidson will never be financially profitable, Farrell said, “I can’t imagine how it could.” It will become more and more expensive. More money can be raised, Carnegie said, especially if the teams are successful. “We've had some success in football,” Farrell said, “and some promise, but no success in basketball.” Football has value, Farrell said, in public relations, student recruitment, and alumni morale. But “economically,” he admitted, “we are a problem. You can’t play football without spending a lot of money.” There must be a decision, Farrell concluded, on “what is better for the College.” “A lot of unrest,” Carnegie said, makes everyone’s job “more difficult.” Sports Information Director Emil Parker added, “whatever is decided, decide once and for all.”

Sportswear

But he made no promises. Lunsford also said that Byrd had left town with $5000 of the company’s money and could not be found. Carpenter noted that this sum plus the money from Davidson and other North and South Carolina schools would probably be in the $10,000 range. Barkley said that Pembroke, Francis Marion, and the University of South Carolina are rumored to have been victimized by Byrd. Although Lunsford claims his business is still operative, Rose Enterprises, a sportswear company from Atlanta, seems to think otherwise. “When a Rose representative came to Davidson a few days ago, he told us that the company in Seneca had gone bankrupt back in January,” Carpenter said. Barkley then called the North Carolina Attorney General’s office. A staff member from this office referred the complaint to a staff attorney in the South Carolina Attorney General's office. That office has already been working on the case and has amassed over 20 claims against this company, Barkley said. Nevertheless, Lunsford maintains that his company is in good shape, and said that Byrd had merely misrepresented it. However, the Seneca Chamber of Commerce office said that the company’s phone service has been stopped. The electrical power is still on, though, so the company may still occupy the office, Barkley said. “Lunsford told us the problem with the phones is just a ‘dispute with the phone company,’” Barkley said. “It seems that Lunsford may be leading us on,” Carpenter said. Barkley thinks the company is legitimate and does not think they have gone bankrupt. “They may just be having cash flow problems,” Barkley said. The problem with the phone company may have resulted from unpaid bills and not from the company’s disbanding, Barkley suggested. If the company still exists, as Lunsford claims, then Byrd could have delivered the orders before he left town, Barkley said. Lunsford was unsure when Byrd actually “skipped town” because of travel commitments on the West Coast, Barkley said. If Byrd left after he delivered the Davidson orders, then there would be a chance for restitution, Barkley noted. However, no record of such an order has been found. As for the whereabouts of Byrd, Barkley called a Mecklenburg County Special Investigator yesterday to see if he could be found. The county official said Byrd had not been located. 

Subscriptions to The Davidsonian may be obtained by sending $10.00 to The Davidsonian P.O. Box 218 Davidson, NC 28036.