Wildcats improve Relays sible ot ee aii run

By VAN BECK

Sports Editor
The 21st Annual Davidson Relays and Wildcat hurdler Dick Jones were the most obvious success stories this past Saturday at Whittle Track. The Relays, blessed with excellent track and field weather for the second consecutive year, attracted forty-three schools (thirty men’s teams and thirteen women’s) from the mid-Atlantic region, and the spectators weren’t disappointed as several fine performances were turned in. Jones garnered Davidson’s only first place of the meet in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles. Not only did Jones capture the Wildcat’s only first place and score ten of the team’s fifteen points, but in doing so he eclipsed the meet record in the 400 meter hurdles. Jones’ time of 53.75, nearly a second faster than his previous career best, was .15 better than that of Towson State’s Roberto Vaddy, who set his mark two years ago. Only a determined stretch run allowed the Davidson junior to best Vaddy’s record, however.

As the hurdlers came out of the blocks, Jones seemingly faltered and didn’t hit his normal stride until the third hurdle. A strong backstretch moved Jones up to the lead runners, and by the final turn he was even with Drew McNeely of the Citadel. Jones edged away from the Bulldog hurdler over the last 100 meters, and the victory was his.

Jones acknowledges that the start isn’t the strongest part of his race, which could be expected from a thin 6’3’’ runner; but he also commented that “I’m in my best shape ever.” Conditioning such as that displayed by Jones this past Saturday can be attributed to more distance work in the fall and tough speed work on the track this spring. Coach Karl Kremser cited Jones’ increased intensity and the fact that he is pushing himself extremely hard this year as reasons for his success thus far. Kremser remarked that “I want him to get down to the low 52’s this year.” From there, Dick Jones can eye the fifty-second barrier and the never-never land of Edwin Moses and company (not that Edwin Moses has any real company).

As a team, Davidson doubled its point output of a year ago when the Cats managed only seven for the entire meet. Jones accounted for ten with his victory, the hurdle shuttle relay team comprised of Jones, Lance Sisco, Jimmy Matson, and freshman Bill Appleton took fourth place for points, and Dave Nichols scored points with a sixth place in the hammer. Their fifteen-point total was good for thirteenth place in a strong field of thirty teams. Davidson is undefeated in dual meet action with but one dual competition remaining, that being a home meet against The Citadel Saturday, April 12th.

In assessing the team’s success this season, Jones pointed to Coach Karl Kremser. Jones stated, “Coach Kremser has really committed himself to the team this season and has pushed us very hard. He deserves much of the credit as far as my personal improvement is concerned. He has taken a special interest in my workouts which he partly developed by corresponding with other coaches and discussing their hurdle workouts. Also, our team has displayed much more enthusiasm this year.”

In the men’s competition, East Carolina won the team title with 110 points, capturing first place in the 440 yard relay and the sprint medley. Appalachian State placed second with 102 points, and Duke scored 55 points for third.

In the women’s competition, Davidson tallied twelve points for ninth place overall. West Virginia captured the team title easily with 119 points, 47 points better than runner-up Virginia Tech. Susan Davidson topped Davidson’s effort with a second place finish at 3000 meters.

Women’s tennis edges Guilford; faces Peace after loss to High Pt.

By NINA BROOME

Staff Writer
The Women’s Tennis Team had one win and a loss last week, running the record to 9-3 on the year. Last Friday’s match against Guilford was a tough one, but the girls pulled through with a 5-4 win. On Monday, however, the score was reversed; High Point, after losing most of the singles, made a comeback in doubles and forced a 5-4 win over the Cats.

The match against Furman Tuesday was cancelled due to rain, and Coach Pat Miller doesn’t plan to reschedule it unless both teams qualify for the Regionals. In that case, she said, the match would be used as a warm-up session to get the two teams ready for the tournament.

Today Davidson will travel to Raleigh to face Peace College for the second time. Although Peace scorched the Cats 8-1 in their last match, Miller hopes for a better performance: “The girls are playing well and I think they’ll do better the second time around.” She added, however, that “Peace is probably the toughest team in our division.”

Next week will be a busy one for Davidson; the girls play Queens College on Monday and an aggressive Appalachian State team on Tuesday. While Queens is not expected to pose much difficulty, Appalachian will be a tough match. Miller says it’s a strong team with several excellent players. On Wednesday, the Cats travel to Western Carolina for the State Tournament. There, Davidson will face some of the best teams in the state.