‘Secretary/Treasurer—Betsy Hass, Campus Notes

ROTC Awards
Two Davidson students have received prestigious ROTC awards. Senior Phil Koonce has been named the Davidson College winner of the
George C. Marshall ROTC award. Junior David Green was selected as one of 50 ROTC cadets from colleges and universities
across the U.S. to attend the Army Ranger School, the Army’s most prestigious and demanding training program, located at Fort
Benning, Georgia. The Marshall award is given in remembrance of the distinguished role General Marshall played as Army Chief of
Staff, Secretary of State and Defense, and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize. It is presented to the outstanding senior
cadet and recognizes leadership and academic excellence in military studies. — AIDA DOSS

Eating House And Fraternity Officers
Nearly all eating houses and fraternities have elected officers for next year. They are as follows:

ATO: President—Tim Newcomb, Treasurer—Elizabeth Alexander, Assistant Treasurer—Mark Phillips, Social Chairman—John Hartman, and House Manager—Cindy Faulkenberry.

Emanon: President—Bill Wilson, Vice-President—Hope McArn, Treasurer—Keith Hearle, Social Chairman—Pam Hawkins, and Vice Social Chairman—Frank Myers.

ETC: President—Jim Northrup, Treasurer—Larry Jones, House Manager—Brian Duke, and Social Chairman—Craig Whitley.

F&M: President—Ruth Ann Westervelt, Vice-President—Chris Elwood, Secretary/Treasurer—Brian Kelleher, and Social Chairman—Joni Seehorn.

KA: President—Doug Shanks, Vice-President—Turley Howard, Secretary—Hugh Crenshaw, Treasurer—Fess Crockett, Assistant Treasurer—Eliot Stotler, Social Chairman—Bill Hailey, and House Managers—Jay Gepfert and
George Silvera.

PAX: President—Liz Upchurch, Vice-President—Susan Eglin, Treasurer—Pete Neefus, Social Chairman—Ann Parker, House Manager—Barbara Cape, Assistant Treasurer—Bruce Wallace, and Freshmen Coordinators—Chrissy Mousalli
and Barry Mack.

Phi Delta Theta: President—Mitch Shirley, Vice-President—Mike Iordanou, Secretary—Mark Fahey, Treasurer—Ben McCall, Social Chairman—Jerry Leavitt, Pledge Master—Jeff Burns, and House Manager—Danny
Robinson.

PiKA: President—David Barkley, Vice-President—Will Dunbar, Treasurer—Mark Carpenter, Assistant Treasurer—Jim Evans, Secretary—Grey Bullard, Social Chairman—Jonathan West, and Pledge Master—Randy Harwell.

Rusk: President—Sally Neal, Vice-President—Lisa Hasty, Social Chairman—Wendy Smith, House Manager—Renee Hedgepeth.

SAE: Officers to be elected in May.

SPE: President—Greg Smart, Vice-President—Larry Jones, Corresponding Secretary—Kevin Pressley, Recording Secretary—Mike Ameen, Social—Tim Bonslav, and House Manager—Jeff Coleman.

FIJI: President—Paul Costel, Historian—Bob Trobich, Social Chairman—Chris Norwood, Treasurer—Tom Specht, Corresponding Secretary—Dave Prettyman, and Recording Secretary—Doug Ziedonis. —ELIZABETH WILSON

Conscientious Objector Status
By ANDY MILLER
Staff Writer

During this decade each one of us will probably ask ourselves the question, “What do I believe about war?” Some
people find in answering this question that they are conscientious objectors. Generally, conscientious objection is a deep conviction, motivated by
conscience, that prevents someone from taking part in armed combat. Conscientious objection is no longer legally restricted to religious convictions,
and exemption from military service is granted to many people with sincere secular beliefs. Some say they could not be
involved with actual killing; others object to the draft as a form of involuntary servitude and thus contrary to the
Constitution. Most people granted conscientious objector status are philosophically opposed to any involvement with warfare or the military.

At this time federal law recognizes two types of conscientious objectors:
1. Conscientious objectors: These are persons who, by reason of deeply held moral, ethical or religious beliefs, are conscientiously opposed
to participating in war in any form.
2. Non-combatants: These are persons who, by reason of deeply held moral, ethical or religious beliefs, are opposed to participating
in combatant roles but may serve in non-combatant roles.

Livingston Taylor Enjoys His Life
By ANTHONY EVERMAN
Staff Writer

“Life is really good to me,” exclaimed Livingston Taylor. The same enthusiasm that he exuded in Room last Saturday night
pervades his entire lifestyle. Taylor’s musical career is central to him and demands much of his time. On the road
four days a week, much of his remaining time is spent practicing, managing the business side of his career, and
writing songs. “This is what I am cut out to do,” he says as he strings his guitar.

Performing before an audience particularly appeals to Taylor. “It’s the greatest to know all those people come to see me
play. I want to do my very best.” He and his wife Maggie live “outside of Boston.” She carves and
sculpts and helps him write “a fair number of my songs.” About 70 percent of the songswhich he performs are
his own compositions. In his spare time, Taylor listens to music of all types: “I am flexible,” he says. “I
enjoy listening to any music that gives me a buzz.” He pursues a number of hobbies. He skis occasionally and
is a regular runner. His special interest is science, especially physics and its theory of gravity. He frequently reads Einstein,
not having enough time to also read fiction. As might be expected, Taylor’s primary interest has always been music. It
has provided his livelihood since his graduation from prep school twelve years ago at the age of seventeen. His family
has been “very supportive of my musical career.” Taylor grew up in Chapel Hill with his three brothers and one
sister. He is close to his famous older brother James, and they talk often, but not about their work. He
concludes, “I have my career, he has his.” His other older brother Alex and his sister Kate are musicians, although
not as successful as he and James. Taylor seems to be content with every aspect of his successful career except
his celebrity. “Visibility can only be compensated for by money,” he maintains, as he admits to enjoying his financial success.

Religious beliefs are conscientiously opposed to war in any form, but who do not object to performing non-combatant duties (such
as being a medic) in the armed forces. There are two other types of conscientious objectors not recognized by law,
and these persons would not be granted conscientious objector exemptions from military service in a future draft if the law
remains the same:

3. Selective Objectors: These are persons whose consciences would not permit them to participate in what they believe to be
an “unjust” war, but who could participate in what they believe to be a “just” war. For example, many people
who were conscientiously opposed to the Vietnam War because they believed it was unjust say they would have fought in
World War II.

4. Nuclear Pacifists: These are persons whose consciences would not permit them to participate in a nuclear war, or what
they believe would likely become a nuclear war. Some nuclear pacifists are opposed to all war because of their belief
that any war fought today would lead to the use of nuclear weapons.

In the past, local draft boards were the ones who made decisions about granting conscientious objector status. Under President Carter’s
proposed registration plan, this would remain the case. Because it is difficult to articulate personal convictions and to prove them,
it is wise for conscientious objectors to discuss their beliefs with others and to think about them in concrete terms.
Once a person has been drafted, he has only ten days to present his case as a conscientious objector. In
order to help individuals substantiate a claim as a conscientious objector, several independent agencies have been formed which will keep
a CO file. Two of these groups are the Central Committee on Conscience (See Objectors, page 11).

Learn what it takes to lead & Army ROTC. Facts indicate that you may work in three to five different
careers. It won’t be unusual to make changes as you go. And it’s entirely possible that your final career does
not even exist today. Often in a first job, you are an assistant to the assistant. Your responsibility is limited
to a desk and typewriter. But when your first job is an Army 2LT, you'll have real management experience. You’ll
be in charge. On a specific job assignment, you could have 30 to 40 people working for you. And you
could be responsible for millions of dollars in equipment. Responsibility for people and resources is exactly the kind of “take-charge”
experience civilian employers seek. It’s a margin of difference in the increasingly competitive job market. Prepare to rise to the
top in your field. Make your first job 3 or 4 years as an Army Officer. If you have two
years remaining in school, you can begin ROTC this summer. You'll be financially secure, physically and mentally stimulated. To add
experience to your degree, contact CPT Neil Touchet, ROTC Dept, Davidson College, Ph. 892-2000 Ext 170.
