September 26, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Divisiveness arises from Trustee policy
James Altizer

As a senior with what is now four years of experience living in the Davidson community, I have shared with
my classmates many occasions for hope, and also ones for disappointment. The selection of Mr. Eugene Bingham as the new
Athletic Director is one such disappointment. Too often in the past have I seen the College administration force its wishes
upon the students, whom it often neglects to consider. It is surprising how little input into administrative decisions our $6200
per year will buy. After reading The Davidsonian’s interview with Mr. Bingham, I feel once again that the wishes of
the majority of students (or what I hope is a majority) have been ignored. Mr. Bingham was quoted as saying,
“The Board of Trustees sets policy. I don’t. The students don’t.” Exactly two paragraphs later he is credited with the
very noble statement, “...to serve the students. That’s the bottom line.” Mr. Bingham fails to realize that these two statements
cannot possibly be implemented simultaneously. This is an “either-or” proposition. It has been voiced in the past that the Trustees
do not mirror student concerns. To serve one is to ignore the other.

I like football as much as anyone. But I did not come to Davidson to sponsor the football program (or
any other athletic program for that matter). If that were the case, I could have gone to the University of
Virginia for one-third the cost of going here. And their football team is better anyway. But the case remains: I
came here for an education. When I graduate from here this Spring, I will have received an education that surpasses,
I believe, that of most other colleges and universities. Davidson's strong academic tradition is the main reason I am here
today.

Mr. Bingham criticizes those who would emphasize education at the expense of athletics. May I remind the honorable Mr. Bingham
that this is Davidson College, not Davidson Football Camp. As far as sports simulating real-life situations, let me simulate another
real-life situation: How about the difficulty in finding a job in the real world? You can’t feed a family of
Spartans on school spirit. (Just ask any professor). You need an education and a marketable skill to make it today.
A football jersey and 50 cents will get you a cup of coffee anywhere.

I was pleased to read the response of Herb Dimmock ’74 to the question of why he discontinued giving to
Davidson College. He too senses the waning influence of academics at a school that has had such a strong academic
tradition. Last year some people laughed at the ad hoc Coalition for Better Education. I see

My Side
Randall Stroud

To the Editor:

While browsing through Volume LXX, Number 1 of the Davidsonian, I found something curious. On page four, you (the editor)
tell us that The Davidsonian has, and always will be, “strongly committed to accurate reporting and presenting both sides of
the issues.” Yet, upon further browsing, I find that there are two articles and a cartoon that attempt to attack
Ronald Reagan, while there is only one small cartoon that criticizes Carter’s last four years. Is this responsible, professional, objective
journalism? I think not.

Robert Bowie’s work, The Rise of Reagan, is the chief center of objection. Nowhere is it stated that the piece
is to be considered opinion or commentary, yet that is precisely what it is. I would hardly call it a
work of presentable journalism due to the fact that Mr. Bowie has inundated it with slurs and his personal biases.
Not once does the author give the reader a valid reason for not voting for Reagan. He does not attack
Mr. Reagan’s stance on the issues nor does he even mention them. In his piece, Mr. Bowie harps on the
fact that Mr. Reagan was not at the ball games while serving as a sportscaster for a radio network. Mr.
Bowie, however, is merely doing the same thing. He does not truly know what is going on, yet he still
feels qualified to comment!

In future issues, I hope The Davidsonian will strive to present both sides of the issues.

Editor's Note: By almost universal journalistic convention, the page opposite the editorial page in a newspaper is reserved for subjective
commentary on the issues of the day. We are quite surprised that anyone would not recognize our ‘op-ed page as
such, particularly in light of the distinctive typographic devices we use on this page. Bowie’s article was commentary, not reporting.
Bowie researched the story of Reagan's life well and then presented his interpretation of that life. Bowie’s column is about
an issue very central to any campaign: the character and qualifications of a candidate. What kind of man Reagan (or
Carter, Anderson, etc.) must be is at least as important as his stance on any particular issue. The Davidsonian remains
committed to presenting as many reasonable sides of issues as possible. We invite Mr. Stroud, or anyone else interested, to
present his side of the issues in these pages. Contact Rick Jenkins at 892-6806 or -6355 at mealtimes.nothing funny about
it; frankly, I think those persons were thinking more about the true purpose of the Davidson experience than anyone else.
Would you like to know the reasons for such divisiveness on the Davidson campus today, Mr. Bingham? Well, for starters,
try a comprehensive tuition bill of $6200 per year. Or professors who earn less than mechanics, but are still expected
to teach with the highest degree of loyalty to the College. Or the incredibly long lines at drop-add each term,
because there aren’t enough courses to go around, because the College spends too damn much money on things other than
academics! As a word of warning to those in high places: until the College reaffirms its commitment to the “real-life
situation” of making academics the #1 priority, I think a lot of people are going to follow in the footsteps
of Herb Dimmock ‘74. James Altizer is a senior from Staunton, Virginia.

The Race
Neil Churchill

The history of the races is long and interesting. For hundreds of years, there were many horses who lined up,
time after time, for the start of the race. They were grueling, cruel occasions where horse and rider would battle
it out against an angry pack, greedy for the spoils. The main contestants, notably the triangle of giants, Britannia, Napoleon,
and Bismarck, ventured all over the world in search of rich prizes. All these stables were remarkably successful, especially Britannia,
who consistently defeated her major rivals time and time again, thus acquiring the greatest and most prestigious cups and trophies.

By the twentieth century, the Bismarckian stable had produced horses that threatened to run away with everything. In recent times,
however, due to the enormous cost involved in running a stable of horses, the older giants have collapsed into obscurity
and two new mammoth stables have emerged. These two, the Star Spangled Stable and the Red Stable, are equipped with
the newest and most expensive technical devices, all designed to improve the performance of their horses. Although the Star Spangled
Stable has changed her trainer several times in the last few years, the dedication to winning has never really waned.
The Red Stable, whose trainer has never been known to give an interview (a part of the enigmatic myth that
surrounds this stable), has also remained dedicated to winning, and some have even suggested that they have made futile attempts
to buy out their chief rivals.

Less than thirty years ago, a scandal supposedly involving the doping of some of its opponents' horses by the Red
Stable almost ended the races indefinitely. The scandal died down, however, when it was discovered that some of the Star
Spangled Stable boys were up to similar tricks. Although these two stables have been the strongest for some time now,
it remains a fact that they have never actually raced their strongest horses against each other. True, there have been
small encounters, but nothing has resulted which has proved one stable stronger than the other. On the whole, the Red
Stable has concentrated on consolidating her superiority over smaller stables nearer home. The Star Spangled Stable has indeed sent a
few horses to race abroad, but her strength has, on the whole, been established through the many practice races on
her own soil. Her confidence to date is sky-high!

As most of the trophies have been removed from the racing scene, it has become increasingly more difficult to judge
who has the strongest stable of horses. For the first time, then, a new race has come into being with
a new trophy as a prize. It will be run for the first time between the two most powerful thoroughbreds
in racing: Poseidon will carry the Red Stable’s interest; Pequod will wear the Star Spangled colors. The prize itself, although
it appears as sparkling and golden, is in fact quite worthless as the gold is only imitation. This is only
to say, however, that the old proverb “all that glitters is not gold” matters not to opposing stables. Instead, the
trophy is priceless to the antagonists as it is a symbol of prestige, power, and domination.

The bets must now be laid: which horse will you back? The one horse is young and strong, the other
is older but has been rejuvenated by a new training technique. The stables of the older giants, Britannia, Napoleon, and
Bismarck, have thrown their support in on the side of the younger horse. The world waits; eyes glued to the
television screen. Both horses wear huge blinders and both jockeys carry heavy whips as they approach the starting post. The
starter’s hand is raised! They’re off!... The race is on... The horses gallop, the jockeys flex... they’re neck and neck
all the way... muscles stretching and rippling as they bound across the muddy ground, jumping plastic hurdles and bottomless stretches
of water... Now they’re out of the camera's sight! We must wait until they turn the final bend and hit
the straight... Kerchump... kerchump... kerchump... Kerchump... Here they come... still running together. Not a head between them. Like two spears,
they charge down the final straight towards the tall, symmetrical, black pole that is the finishing line... Kerchump... Kerchump... Kerchump...

Neil Churchill was an international student from England last year.
