April 11, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Draft Violates Moral And Logical Reason
Harold Lloyd

Once again it appears potentially profitable to use human beings as resources to be exchanged for material wealth. So then arises talk of reinstating the draft. Millions of persons whose “liberties” are printed on the constitution are now subject to the possibility of having to decide, at the threat of physical harm, whether or not they wish to play this pernicious game. From their easy chairs, our leaders and businessmen are quite generous in supplying defenses of this “undesirable but necessary” institution. Needless to say, their arguments are old and specious and have been passed on from generation to generation, but two of them merit examination because of their frequent use.

Possibly the easiest argument to put forward is the pro-draft argument from tacit consent. A state has certain laws which it expects its people to follow; if certain persons do not wish to follow these laws, such persons are free to leave. If they choose not to go, then they have chosen to be bound by the laws of the state and are thus so bound. The draft is such a law and the persons it would bind could have left had they chosen. They did not leave. Hence they chose to be bound by such laws and are now so bound, both in a legal and moral sense. This is so because morally, one ought to obey the laws that one has consented to obey, just as one ought to keep one’s promises. Hence the draft is morally justified.

Yet, anyone with a moral conscience who reflects a bit about such a claim will find the argument from tacit consent revolting and even paradoxical. An example should quickly show that this line of argument just does not work. If we grant that one’s “tacit consent” could be morally binding (I frankly don’t see how consent could be anything but explicit), it would follow that one could be legally and morally compelled to the immoral, which seems a contradiction in terms. For example, if this theory were extended in retrospect, it would follow that every German in the Nazi era, if requested, was legally and hence morally obligated to help exterminate Jews, since such Germans did not leave the country after the Nazi take-over, and were thus bound by their “tacit consent.” They would then be both legally and morally compelled to do the immoral, i.e., they ought to do what they ought not to do. In all fairness, such a conclusion just does not make sense and it seems reasonable to brand the tacit consent argument faulty by reductio ad absurdum.

Perhaps one can make more sense out of the second line of argument which is also often given. One explicitly has a moral duty to defend one’s country. The draft serves to defend one’s country. Hence one has a duty to be drafted. (Let’s assume this last proposition is meaningful.) Such an argument seems to be purely meta-ethical and the initial premise can be supported in many ways. For the sake of brevity and simplicity, however, I shall concede that the initial premise is justified in some sense. The analysis here will only be of the inferences drawn.

First, if the inferences are valid, it follows that the presently proposed draft laws (which would draft only 18 to 20-year-olds) are themselves immoral, for the conclusion of the argument is a universal proposition. All have a duty to defend their country; the draft serves to defend the country. Therefore, all should be drafted (assuming of course that the argument follows). Now to draft only a portion of those who are morally bound (Vonnice Hendrickson) to be drafted is to force the remainder to...do evil, i.e., not to fulfill their moral duties—to be drafted. Surely the person who argued along these lines would have to seek to rewrite the law to include all in the draft. For that would be the moral thing to do, and this is, after all, a moral argument. At this point, it is also relevant to ask just what is this entity, the "state," whose interests one is morally bound to defend. Certainly, it is not something metaphysical. Nor would it seem to be just a name, for how could one defend an abstraction on the battlefield? Rather, "state" seems to refer to either of two things: the machinery of government or the people which this machinery controls. Of course, this machinery itself consists of persons, so "state" ultimately refers to a certain group of persons, who themselves have different interests, such as those associated with government, those who farm, those who drill oil, and so on. The interests of the various groups within this broader group called the "state" can conflict, and it seems odd to speak of something this diverse as having a set of common interests to defend in a colonial war in, say, the Persian Gulf. Would the poor population in Southern Texas, for example, have any real or overriding interest in a "corporate" war in Iran or its environs? I should think not. Their primary interests would probably lie in avoiding the war, whose only major effect on them would be to take the lives of their sons. If all this is reasonable, then in such a situation there is a plurality of conflicting interests and hence no one interest of the state to defend. Thus, there could be no moral obligation, based solely on the argument at hand, relating to the draft, for the second premise of the argument would be false: the draft would not in this case serve to defend the interest of the state because there would be no such interest to defend. Hence, the argument is unsound. (Vonnie Hendrickson)

Yet, the falsity of the second premise does not follow just from problems with universal terminology in the initial premise itself. First, it is mistaken to assume that the draft always serves to defend the country (from without) granting there is some common interest to defend. Although examples are easy to come by, one needs only one to falsify this naive premise in a general sense. For example, a revival of the draft at a time (See No Draft, page 11)

Harold Lloyd is Opinions Editor.

900 Room
Ben McCall

In the past few weeks, we have had several recurring problems with the control of alcohol in the College Union and in the 900 Room. These problems are directly related to, and often in violation of, both college rules and State laws. The three basic problems are as follows:

1. Students failing to bring proof of age to the 900 Room. (Davidson I.D. or a driver’s license)
2. Students bringing beer into, or taking beer out of, the 900 Room.
3. Students bringing other alcoholic beverages into the 900 Room.

These three examples are all violations of State ABC laws and numbers 2 and 3 are violations of the Code of Responsibility. While it is possible that State authorities could close the 900 Room if these violations are observed, it is also possible that the school will close the room if these violations continue to occur. The 900 Room is a privilege rather than a right, and thus it is up to the students to accept the rules of the 900 Room and continue to enjoy it, or ignore the rules and lose the privilege.

Ben McCall is Social Vice President of the Union.