8—The Davidsonian—October 3, 1980

Part-time job not enough for Muench | Big test for soccer still to come

By CRAIG WHITE
Sports Editor

Not many people know it, but former Davidson baseball coach Palmer Muench left for McMinnville, Oregon this past weekend. Why
would anyone want to leave Davidson for McMinnville, Oregon? Money had a lot to do with it, according to Muench.

Until last year, Muench was working essentially two jobs—one as head baseball coach and one as the football trainer. When
he stopped training the football team last year, Muench received only half of his former salary, even though he was
still head baseball coach.

The two jobs “were just not compatible. I needed to be with baseball in the fall instead of football. The
two jobs should be full-time.” (This year, the football trainer is a full-time job, and the baseball coach is still
only a part-time job). And as Muench puts it, “I couldn’t live on half a salary.”

Even though Muench is leaving baseball at Davidson, he still loves the game. “The only disagreement I ever had with
any college official was what priority baseball should have here at Davidson. They felt baseball wasn’t so important. I did.”

Indeed, the College’s emphasis on baseball has been very minimal. Baseball funding has not increased for years, forcing Muench and
his team “to make do with what we received.” By making do, Muench is referring to away games when the
team usually had to stay in homes and even churches instead of hotels.

In five seasons at Davidson, Muench’s teams have never broken the .500 mark, but this fact did not influence Muench’s
decision. As he points out, this record is understandable since Davidson is the only Southern Conference team without baseball scholarships.
This year might be different since “returning starters make this year’s team a contender. So, I'm not leaving (the team)
high and dry.”

“I've loved Davidson. I think it’s a great school, but it should also strive for the best in both academics
and sports like Duke has. If you do something you have to do it right. I don’t apologize for anything
— I've done the job.”

(David McCurry)

8:30 until

7 Days a Week

Rally Around the Cats
Friday Afternoon

Happy Hour
25¢ Beverages
Pitchers $1.75
4:30 - 6:30

Delivery Service

Peregrine House 892-8686

By STEVE SOUD

Staff Correspondent
The time has come to find out whether fair is foul and foul is fair for the Davidson soccer team.
Having racked up a 6-0 record, the Cat kickers are now facing the meat of their season and are soon
to find out what they’re made of.

Yesterday’s game against arch-nemesis The Citadel kicked off the ten days of heavyweights, but the schedule kicks into gear this
weekend with back-to-back games in Lexington, Va. Saturday. The Wildcats meet the VMI Keydets, a kick and run team that
nipped them by one goal last season. Sunday will bring a game against non-conference Washington & Lee, a team which
fell to the DC booters by one goal a year ago.

After the team returns home, it will have a full week to prepare for what could well be the most
important game of the season. Appalachian State, ranked second in the South, comes to Davidson in a major Southern Conference
duel. Should Davidson scotch the snakes waiting in Lexington and then make assurance double sure that fair is fair by
beating the Apps, the team would stand a chance of a Top Twenty ranking.

The team looked better than fair in its last two outings, though. The ‘Cats stifled UNC-Asheville with their fifth consecutive
shutout, 3-0, as Jimmy Hawk scored a pair and Mike Lockwood completed the killing. Iordanou tallied eight saves in the
process.

So foul and fair a day as Saturday had not been seen, as the team beat UT-C, 4-2, but losing
its string of shutouts simultaneously. Bill Wahl commenced the barrage as he scored at 8:15, but 3:42 later Joynes scored
to bring UT-C even at one. “Cup” Coffey broke the deadlock soon thereafter, but UT-C again knotted the score, 2-2,
for the half. The booters decided that 'twere well ’twere done quickly and Peter Burr and Hawk put the visitors
away quickly with a goal apiece. Chris “every time he touches the ball they expect him to score” Roberts and
Hall Barnett each earned two assists. Meanwhile, UT-C’s Ghazavan earned an Oscar for his acting.

One encouraging sign in the two games’ efforts was that, combined, the opposition got off only nine second-half shots. Coach
Slagle added that statistic was “hopefully because of depth and conditioning.”

The young team will need all the depth, conditioning, skill, and goals it can muster, for soon will come the
games deciding whether these youngsters are for real.

Cheeses

Health Foods

Coffees

Wines
Imported Beers

Weekly Special —
Natural & Kosher Yogurt
regularly 85¢ now 60¢

128 S. Main St.
Davidson
892-7521
