---

Founded 1914

Mutual Responsibility.

Dr. Spencer's Convocation address last Saturday marked the first time in recent memory we've heard any administrator volunteer a vision
for Davidson's future educational program. In the past, the faculty has often discussed the need for more professors and higher
salaries in general, while Dr. Spencer and other administrators shook their heads and said, "We can't afford it."

As a result, we are especially pleased that Dr. Spencer has this vision, though he seems to lose sight of
the fact that its fruition lies on his shoulders as well.

Davidson is a rather isolated institution, in a rather isolated country, and Dr. Spencer's attempt to help future Davidson graduates
become part of the rising world community is laudable. Most people will agree that Davidson's present language programs do not
produce a very high level of fluency among most students, and Dr. Spencer is wise to target this area for
further study. As he pointed out, there are many possible ways to improve our language programs, and we hope the
faculty will not accept the Educational Policy Committee’s proposal for a fourth term of language as a panacea before thoroughly
investigating such options as total language immersion for a term or different techniques in present courses themselves.

We also share Dr. Spencer's desire to bolster Davidson's offerings in non-Western courses. We would strongly object to creating an
area requirement here, but agree that it is time Davidson, along with the rest of the nation, lost its cultural
chauvinism and began preparing its students to deal with the non-Western world.

Dr. Spencer is also on safe ground when he says our Humanities program is well worth preserving. Yet we should
all be careful that Humes does not detract from Davidson’s other educational offerings. As we have said before, many professors
are justifiably reluctant to teach Humes as they feel the course directs too much of their attention away from their
other courses. If we are to increase the size of the Humanities program to meet demand, it must not be
at the expense of offerings in other parts. We will have to hire new professors.

There's a catch to all this—money. Dr. Spencer said that it is up to the faculty to decide how to
meet his goal of giving Davidson a more relevant educational program. This is worthy, but we cannot blame the faculty
for being reluctant to act decisively until they have more reason to believe the money to finance the addition of
new faculty will be forthcoming. The money will have to come from either other parts of the college or from
new sources. We cannot really expect the administration to cut other programs, such as athletics and building projects, to bring
them to fruition.

World View Needed

Jim Tholen

College President Samuel Spencer’s speech at Fall Convocation provided a clear and encouraging picture of revitalizing Davidson’s educational opportunities and
philosophy. The implications of his proposed changes, however, far transcend the policies themselves. Essentially, the message was a pragmatic one:
Davidson must react to the changing role of the United States with respect to the rest of the world. The
way Davidson does respond will prove fundamental to its continuance as a leading liberal arts college. I find hope in
President Spencer's remarks. I wonder, however, how the Trustees will react to the same stimuli.

The implications of the speech transcend Dr. Spencer’s message. Can Davidson steer itself away from the immediate factional goals of
a ruling conservative body? In particular, Dr. Spencer proposed the addition of more foreign language courses, “Eastern” humanities, and other
courses having a non-Western emphasis. Additional support would be given to the existing JYA and other foreign study programs; presumably
these programs would be expanded in both number and scope.

The issue lies beyond the changes themselves, resting instead with the fundamental changes in philosophy that the changes would represent.
The implications of these new policies are enormous for the future of Davidson College. Make no mistake, Dr. Spencer’s words
cannot be considered solely rhetorical. The manifestations of a changing world will reach all of us in spite of our
efforts to insulate ourselves. We are late in moving; we cannot afford to hesitate any longer. Davidson must anticipate these
future changes.

In the last few years, this school has even experienced a shift backward; the liberalization of, and, if you will,
emancipation from, the provincial norms that had previously held control have been cut short. Can we expect the Trustees to
divert funds from the expensive play toys they insist on promoting?

There can be little compromising in this regard. If the changes are to be made, they must be made soon.
I find hope in Dr. Spencer’s words. I have less confidence that the Trustees will respond accordingly.

Jim Tholen was JYA in England last year.

The Davidsonian welcomes letters on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for length and clarity. All letters
must be signed. Deadline will ordinarily be the Monday night of the week of publication. Mail letters to The Davidsonian,
Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036 or bring them by the office on the third floor of the College Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly in the academic year (except during holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson
College. Mailing address: P.O. Box 218, Davidson N.C. 28036. Telephone: 892-2000; extension 148. Subscription rate: $8.00 per year. Advertising rates
available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.
