~ 8—The Davidsonian—January 25, 1980

Sports Scripts

Swim Team

The Davidson Swim Team whipped VMI and Washington & Lee 73-40 and 68-38 respectively this past weekend to run its record to 7-1. Both meets were basically preparation for upcoming competitions as the team didn’t break training and rest for VMI or W & L. This Friday, in a big meet to be held at the UNCC pool, Davidson faces the Citadel and Appalachian State. Then Saturday they face Georgia Tech and Wake Forest at 11:00 a.m. These meets are expected to be challenging and promise excitement.

— DANNY ARMISTEAD

Wrestling

The Wrestling Wildcats visited Charleston, S.C. this past Saturday for a tournament which included Duke, Georgia Tech, The Citadel, and VMI, among others. Heavyweight Rob King led the Cats with a second-place finish in his division. Van Wagner and Mike Garfinkel also added one victory apiece in their respective weight classes. Coach Bob Estock commented, “It was a great learning experience for us. The competition was the best we’ve faced so far.”

The next competition for Davidson will be a tournament this Saturday, January 26, at Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va.

— DAVE DONALDSON

Women’s Basketball

Last Thursday night, January 15, when the Wildkittens left to go to Asheville to play Warren Wilson, Athletic Director Tom Cartmill jokingly promised that if the Davidson women’s team won their next five games he would give everybody on the team a new basketball. Unfortunately, he won’t have to keep his promise.

Davidson lost to the Belles of Bennett College by a score of 59-50 in Greensboro last Tuesday. They were not able to play a consistent enough game, which they needed to play, to beat Bennett.

The Kittens dominated the first ten minutes of the game as their full-court man-to-man defense completely disoriented the Belles. However, as the game progressed, the Kittens got tired and the Belles gradually reduced the deficit to take the lead at halftime, 25-24.

In the second half, the two teams took turns taking the lead until the last couple of minutes of the game when the Belles got some easy baskets on fast breaks. Mike Frankhouser led Davidson with 16 points. Anna Hutchinson and Kirby Owen had 10 points each; Mitzi Short and Laura Terry chipped in 4 apiece; and Sarah Womack had 6 points.

The Wildkittens' next game is tonight (Thursday) at 7:30 in Johnston Gym with St. Andrews, another conference foe.

— KIRBY OWEN

ROBERT SHAW - JACQUELINE BISSET
"THE DEEP"

Friday, January 25 Love Auditorium

$1.50 or season pass
8:00 & 10:30 pm

Wet T-Shirts admitted FREE

Deliveries

Now Parking Soon at Peregrine House

Wide Screen TV Happy Hour

Weekly: Thur. & Fri. nights
Win-A-Keg Contest

8 pm until

$1.40 pitcher