Suppressed Desires and Amicable Parting start Midwinters off

By JEAN SORACCO
Staff Writer

“It’s a challenge to direct students being a student myself,” said junior Julie Webber, “especially when one of them has previously directed a workshop production.” Webber is director of Amicable Parting written by George Kauffman and Leueen MacGrath. The play involves a married couple who are in the process of getting a divorce. Both characters are theater people; Bill Reynolds, played by Jack Hall, is a playwright and his wife Alicia, played by freshman Marni Crosby, is an actress.

“The couple who wrote the play are a playwright and an actress who at one time had marital problems,” said Webber. “I’m assuming that the play is sort of autobiographical.” Set in modern times, the play is a situation comedy with many one-liners.

Esther Bruce, also a junior, is directing Suppressed Desires by Susan Glaspell. “It’s also a situation comedy taking place in the late 1930s,” said Bruce. “The story concerns a woman who is interested in psychoanalysis and analyzes everything her husband does. Her sister comes to visit and also takes an interest in psychoanalysis. The husband decides to do something about his predicament,” said Bruce, “and his wife gets a taste of her own medicine.”

Freshman Eric Fichtner plays the husband Stephen Brewster. In their first Davidson production, freshman Teresa Strawser plays the wife Henrietta, and junior Julie Gibert is her sister Mabel.

Both plays will be held in the Workshop Theater and run about a half hour each with a short intermission between. Tickets are $1 for students, $1.50 general admission. Performances are 7:00 Thursday evening and 4:00 Friday afternoon.

Speed reading course contributes to more effective learning

By ELIZABETH WILSON
Staff Writer

The Baldridge Reading and Study Skills Program has enrolled seventy-seven Davidson students—not through promises of War & Peace in one sitting, but through a viable system of improvement techniques. This year’s four-week, $95 program began about three weeks ago. At the first session, instructor Debora Erie established and recorded individual reading speeds; students have since doubled, tripled, and in one case, even quadrupled word-per-minute reading rates through a technique called “multi-word reading.” This concept involves reading phrases instead of reading word by word and is most effective when combined with three other techniques: “surveying,” “structuring,” and “annotating.”

Students survey material by glancing through it and getting an overall picture before reading closely, especially if the material is technical in nature. “Structuring” and “annotating” involve organizing and note-taking. The program also focuses on study schedules, tests and examinations, research papers, and vocabulary development.

Although most students admit that these techniques are not new to them, they are nevertheless satisfied with the program. As one put it, “They make you...do everything you’ve always been too lazy to bother with. It’s no miracle technique—you have to work. But you can really tell a difference.”

February 1, 2010 — Eric Fichtner, in the role of Stephen Brewster, explains the horrible effects of psychoanalysis to his sister-in-law Mabel (Julie Gibert), while his wife Henrietta (Teresa Strawser) looks on. (Stephen Enniss)

Riding program stabilized and expanded
By AIDA DOSS | Features Editor

Two years ago it didn’t exist. But thanks to a lot of shoveling, lifting, building, and grooming, it does now. The Davidson College Riding Program, founded in the winter of 1977 by Kathy Woodward, Katherine Whitney, and several others, is becoming one of the most popular physical education courses available.

Virginia Dummit, a senior who has worked extensively at the stables, said she was “surprised and pleased” by the interest in horses and riding which was expressed at the beginning and which has continued to support the program. Between forty and sixty students participate in horseback riding each term, with slightly fewer in the winter when bad weather can make riding unfeasible.

The first two horses were bought from a school in Virginia, and a third was donated. An additional three horses (kept at a farm one mile this side of Huntersville) were lent by Jim Howard, who owns a lumber company in Huntersville. In addition, Howard built a ring, installed an electric fence to keep the horses in their pasture, helped clear cross-country trails for riding, and donated hay, a tractor, and wood shavings from his lumberyard for bedding the horses. “He even gave us a manure spreader,” laughed Dummit.

The program has expanded to the point that there are now eleven horses in the barn, a larger pasture, and a dressage arena as well as a regular riding ring. Dressage is a specialty within the art of horsemanship—“it’s the ballet of riding,” said Dummit. “It involves developing the horses gymnastically and developing communication with the horse to the utmost.” The dressage arena is rectangular in shape with a very low, five-inch fence, lending itself to “gymnastic exercise and precision.” The regular riding ring, enclosed by a higher circular board fence, is used by beginners and those taking lessons.

The money to run the stables and the physical education program comes exclusively from the horses, who “earn their own keep.” Lessons cost approximately $40 per term, all of which directly supports the maintenance of the horses and stables. Community riding programs in the summer have helped boost revenues, as have the sales of several donated horses. So far, the program has supported itself, but the College may soon assume more responsibility. “In the beginning,” said Dummit, “the College seemed skeptical about the viability of the program. Now, however, we feel we've proved ourselves and the College recognizes that.”

The next big step for the program is a projected move to the lake campus. Such a move would be beneficial for several reasons. First, it will be on College property; second, it will provide more space; and third, it will allow for expansion, i.e., several barns.