| vy — a (Continued from page 4) Let us not speak proudly of our restraint while the Russians deny us access to Middle East oil. Neville Chamberlain gave away Czechoslovakia in the name of restraint. Learn the lessons of WW II. Isolation is not feasible in this shrinking world of ours. “There is nothing for nothing anymore,” President Carter said recently. He was right. To paraphrase Dwight... The weakness lies within the American people. Individuals must use their common sense. They must realize that a war in the Middle East does not, of necessity, mean a return to the imperialism of the Vietnam era. Dwight is not the only writer guilty of deficient journalism. The Davidsonian needs to be tightened up. The excess must be cut away so that the underlying substance can reveal itself. Better research, greater thought, and less sensationalism are needed. A story worth reporting will stand on its own merits.

Christopher Norwood '82

Krentz Supports Semester

To the Editor:

I was disappointed to read Mark Barrett’s (uninformed?) judgment that “few people seem to care whether Davidson operates on the term or semester system.” I care, and my vague impression is that Sue Ross and I do not stand alone, particularly among those faculty members who are experiencing Davidson’s odd system for the first time. Some responses to objections I’ve heard: 1) changing to semesters would require reorganizations of some courses, particularly science labs—but since over the year the same number of students would be taking the same number of courses over the same number of class days, my non-mathematical mind concludes that no extra lab sessions would be necessary; 2) the Humanities program (and other intensive courses) could operate precisely as they do now, by giving 1½ credits for a semester course which meets five days a week; 3) regarding foreign travel programs, I think we need to consider whether we can afford, in these days of rising student:faculty ratio, to send sorely needed professors abroad with a dozen students during the school year—these programs should perhaps be moved to the summer, or to the short term of a 4-1-4 system; 4) I assume (perhaps too hastily) that professors would, under a semester system, continue to teach 6 courses per year and would have a full semester for sabbatical leave. I recommend that the faculty adopt a semester system only under such conditions.

On the positive side: 1) a semester system would eliminate the hideous problem of a 3-week Christmas break in the middle of winter term; 2) a semester system would enable students and faculty to study/teach at another institution occasionally (most U.S. colleges and universities are on a semester system); 3) we would only have to live through registration, drop-add, and exam periods twice each year, which would mean an enormous savings in time for all involved (especially advisors). It is admirable that Davidson was willing to try the three-term system. It would be more admirable still if we now admitted that the experiment has failed. There is just not much to be said for our current calendar, except that it would require some work to change.

Peter Krentz
Professor of History

Draft is Reasonable?

To the Editor:

While there was, I concede, a smattering of justification for the last anti-draft movement, there is no foundation for a renewal of that same cause, save for the one composed of the sand of illogical rhetoric, the mud of mindless altruism, and the ooze of eruditionary hogwash. Anti-draft sentiment is anachronistic, for certain events of the decade past have shown us that registration, if not the draft itself, is needed, for example:

1. While the Soviet economy is programmed to devote a considerable amount of money to military research and development, our military spending has decreased since fiscal 1967, in terms of real dollars, by 16.5% as compared with fiscal 1979 ($68.9 billion in 1966 dollars for fiscal 1967 vs. $117.7 billion in inflated 1978 dollars for fiscal 1979); additionally, the percentage of the total U.S. budget allotted for defense spending has decreased from a standard of 45-50% to 23% for fiscal 1981.
2. After all attempts to placate those who have striven for some unrealistic concept of international peace, and despite what many academicians postulated during the Vietnam era, we find that Soviet policy vigorously advocates a policy of expansionism by force as dictated by the Marxist theory as corrupted by Lenin and Stalin.
3. The War Powers Act has specific checks which limit the amount of time that any American troops can be committed to war on foreign soil. Thus, American opinion will serve as a check against an immoral war, as the Vietnam conflict was perceived by many.

Ron Kirksey, editorial editor of the Kingsport (Tenn.) Times-News and a product of the Vietnam era, writes, “There are indeed real witches in the world, and they do fry children.” Amen.

Most of us such as myself have not enlisted in service to our country because it was not required. But our leaders are now awakening to the fact that not all countries have the same idea of compassion and goodness as do we. And, it’s about time that they have. Yes, it is time that we come out of our Camelot back into the world of reality. It is evident that...We arm ourselves not to act as the aggressor, but to fulfill the obligations of our social contract, which empowers us to actively defend the freedoms which our unique system grants us: the freedom to worship as we please—or not worship at all. The freedom to develop our abilities to their fullest...and even to protest against a military draft.

So, put away your Woodstock records and your bus tickets to Toronto. Don't buy gasoline in order to burn your draft cards. And, most of all, don’t attempt to defer yourself from service to Columbia; for she grants all of us specific rights, and she requires that all of us, not just those of us who aren’t rich enough or smart enough, stand up for those rights. That's what we fought for at Valley Forge, Yorktown, New Orleans, Gettysburg, Iwo Jima, the 38th parallel...and even Saigon. That’s what my immigrant Italian grandfather fought for on foreign soil during World War I. And THAT’s what we're “fightin’ for” now.

Frank Santore, '81

Lottery Changes Won't Help

To the Editor:

The article, “Housing lottery rearranged,” in the February 1st issue of The Davidsonian raises some serious questions concerning housing selection next year. Why, for any reason, should the off-campus sophomores draw before the juniors? The simple fact of seniority should be enough to ensure juniors first pick. Why not let off-campus sophomores pick after the juniors? Surely there will still be plenty of good rooms available at that time for the sophomores to “make up” for any inconveniences suffered this year.

I believe that the only people who should be guaranteed on-campus room placement are the incoming freshmen. Why penalize this year’s sophomores two years in a row by making them pick after the freshmen? Those who went through the same “shock” weeks at Davidson? I think not.

Mark Carpenter, '81

Student Behavior Was Appalling

To the Editor:

This letter is being written at midnight February 5, 1980 in reference to student actions earlier this evening. We are appalled that a bonfire, begun in a spirit of fun, could turn into a scene of mob violence. Attacks upon and disregard for the Davidson Volunteers Fire department are a shameful reflection on “educated” Davidson students.

One cannot ignore parallels between this scene and the New York City blackout. In each case, “humans” allowed their baser natures to lead to destruction. The incident included not only vandalism to properties, but also physical attacks upon volunteer public servants. We visited the firehouse at 11:30 pm tonight to express our shame about the actions of our fellow students. The firemen understood the student's revelry and they were not overly upset about the mindless attacks on their persons and vehicle. Their main concern is for the future safety of the student body—they hope they will not be shunned in the case of a true emergency.

Cindy Lou Faulkenberry '82
Susan B. Marynowski '82

BSC Invites

To the Editor:

This letter is being presented in honor of Black History Month. The Black Student Coalition invites you to join them in celebrating this month of Black History. I want to introduce to you the significance of the BSC (Black Student Coalition) by quoting another member of the BSC, Kevin Hanna. Kevin states: “The Black Student Coalition is not a racist organization, we are not a budding Black Panther Party. In fact, we invite those of the ‘majority’ to participate in our activities and functions. However, I must emphasize that the BSC is to be taken seriously. We, as members of the Coalition, object to the misconception (held by those who are only vaguely aware of our existence) that ours is a social club of blacks. We are not. Although fellowship is an integral part of our existence, it is not the primary function of the BSC. For although the BSC has been in existence for a number of years, we are just now accomplishing inroads towards important goals. We intend to communicate—campus-wide—our activities, along with pertinent information which will help people understand our organization as a whole, and the needs of black students in particular. The participation of all interested parties is warmly welcomed.”

The BSC’s main purpose is to provide the black students of Davidson College with some identity as a group, without the exclusion of the non-black majority. In closing this letter, I give to you the Preamble to the BSC’s Constitution: “We the black students of Davidson College do establish this kindred to preserve the pride and dignity of the students who have gone on before us, as well as those who will follow after us. With the foundation of a strong liberal arts education, we seek to ensure that our cultural heritage is remembered, preserved, and maintained as long as this kindred exists. We seek to establish our places of endeavor not only at this college, but wherever our callings may lead us. With our work in mind, we establish this kindred, the Black Student Coalition of Davidson College, to prepare us to enter a world where we will better serve those whose lives depend most upon our survival.”

Terrazzo Wallace '80