April 18, 1980—The Davidsonian—5

Hope McArn belts a forehand. (Trey Thies)

Cats lose 3, but retain conference lead

By STOKES PEEBLES
Staff Writer

Davidson fell below .500 for the first time since spring break as the Wildcats dropped four straight games last week.
The losses gave Davidson a 12-15 record but fortunately only one was a conference defeat. The Cats still lead the
Southern Conference with a 6-3 record.

Pfeiffer helped start Davidson off on the wrong foot by beating the Wildcats 9-4. Junior shortstop Joby Merten kept the
Cats close by collecting two hits in the contest. Davidson then lost to cross-county rival UNCC by a score of
5-2 as poor defense plagued the Wildcats. Crucial defensive errors hurt Davidson again as they lost to Citadel 5-2 Saturday
in a rain-shortened game. The game against the Bulldogs was the first of two conference contests slated for Davidson last
weekend. Inclement weather prevented the second game from being played on Sunday as well.

John Haskell hit well against the Citadel as he went three for three and upped his team-leading average to .402.
The Wildcats rounded out the week with a 7-4 loss to Wake Forest. The Deacons’ Brick Smith hit a three-run
homer to power the victory, and Cam Zurbruegg led the Davidson attack with three hits. Freshman first baseman John Marshall
added two more hits and scored two runs.

The Wildcats are pressing now and possibly the reason is that the players are pressing too hard. Co-captain Joby Merten
said, “Right now we’re not making things click as we were earlier. We’re hitting the ball well but tight at
the defense. If we relax, get our confidence back, and stop pressing, we'll start winning again.” Junior John Porter is
evidence that consistency is the key as he is hitting over .360. If the rest of the team can play
with such consistency, Davidson will soon be back on the winning side. Their next opportunity comes against East Tennessee State
this Saturday as they play a conference doubleheader in Johnson City.

Intra-squad game ends spring football

By VAN BECK
Sports Editor

A cobra-like offensive attack coupled with a short-handed defensive unit characterized Davidson’s intra-squad football scrimmage held Friday afternoon. The scrimmage,
which culminated spring practice for the Cats, was an offense versus defense affair and came off about as Coach Ed
Farrell expected. Farrell commented, “As a

B&BB unbelievably quiet this week

By BONEHEAD and THE BRICK BROTHERS

One of our more avid physics major readers has submitted to us a wonderful essay. We think one and all
will find the sentiment glorious, if not beautific. The sheer magnitude and force of this deep expression of a young
man’s feelings will touch your very heart. I hope you appreciate this as much as we do.

Silence Is Golden

In the hustle and bustle of our modern-day world, we often forget to appreciate one of life’s simpler pleasures: silence.
Instead, our society seems to place high values on all the things that make the most noise such as power-packed
stereos and high-speed cars. Perhaps some of the aggressiveness in our world could be muted if our leaders were allowed
to enjoy the solitude of a glider plane rather than the constant roar of a jet engine.

Unfortunately, finding quietude can be hard nowadays. Even as one wakes up with sunrise in the morning he hears not
the silence of the still dawn air, but the sound of his neighbor’s Volvo as he returns from the midnight
shift at the plant. Simply getting away from one’s fellow man, the source of most of the unnecessary noise in
the world, can often be heard in today’s field or forest can be more than an hour’s drive from many
of our metropolitan centers.

With the difficulty of finding silence in our modern world, it is no wonder that so many people are nervous
wrecks. In addition, people today have a hard time appraising thevalue of silence. Too many people fail to realize the
impact of a teacher’s cold stare on a young child. They would prefer to yell and scream to get someone’s
attention. Also, many people feel that if one method is faster it is necessarily better. They would always choose a
noisy motorboat ride over a quiet sailboat. Unfortunately, these same people miss some of the best things this world has
to offer. Perhaps if more people would take time out to think about the value of quietness, they could do
something about the over-abundance of noise in the world. Then, perhaps more people would be able to enjoy life’s golden
silence. Hopefully, we can work to reverse these tendencies, though. If more people would be more considerate in their actions,
then maybe silence would become more abundant. Our world could be made much more pleasant if people would only realize
that silence is golden.

Niac Nhoj

After all the pure, unadulterated garbage we've offered you the first 25 weeks of this year, we think this is
a welcome and sincere respite. This essay reaffirms one’s faith in the spiritual quality, not to mention the writing ability,
of the Davidson student body. A happy and belated Easter present from Bonehead and the Brick Brothers. Love to all.
Later.

SENIOR ART SHOW by VONNIE HENDRICKSON
Reception 7:30pm Thursday in Union Gallery
If it's by Vonnie, it’s got to be good .... or at least inexpensive.

Head coach: one can never be completely satisfied with the spring game. In an offense versus defense scrimmage, you can
only hope that neither side dominates the other. If such a situation presents itself, then a worrisome summer tends to
ensue. In our position, however, a strong performance by the offensive unit could’ve been predicted. Farrell substantiated such a statement
with three reasons, which shouldn’t be confused with excuses. First, the Cats were missing key defensive performers, four of whom
should earn starting berths. Injuries obviously mean that the total number of players on the defensive side is down, which
is analogous to fatigue for downlinemen who have to go the entire distance without a break, which several players were
forced to do. Last, Farrell remarked in a straightforward manner that, “We are a good offensive football team and possess
dangerous weapons.”

The scrimmage itself saw the offense, led by quarterback Brian Whitmire, outscore the defense 43-21. (Don’t ask about the scoring
system.) Whitmire, who should have the position to himself this year, completed seven of twelve passes for 125 yards and
three touchdowns. His stats might have been greatly improved had not two big-play balls been dropped. Halfback Alvin Atkinson picked
up 147 yards on eleven carries to nicely complement Whitmire’s arm. He caught a 67-yard TD and also clipped off
a 73-yard run. As a result of Whitmire and Atkinson’s efforts, the offense put out 560 total yards. One unfortunate
note concerns Gifford Piercy, Davidson’s fine split end. After catching a three-yard touchdown pass early in the scrimmage, Piercy later
went down with torn ligaments and was operated on Sunday. He should, however, be well by September.

The defense performed admirably considering that James McClark, Charles Hooks, Billy Price, and Mark Fahey failed to suit up because
of various injuries. A fifth regular, John Bazos, was cut down early with a knee injury. The bane of a
year ago was once again in evidence, however, as big plays hurt the Cat defense Friday afternoon. Hopefully, with the
return of the above-mentioned, Davidson can display some consistency on the defensive side by the fall of 1980.

Coach Farrell, in assessing spring practice, commented, “Overall, our staff is pleased; it’s been a good spring and we've had
good effort. The people that we'll be counting on next season have substantiated our confidence and should come through. Our
schedule will be challenging, but the football team that will take the field against Springfield College on September 6 will
be the most talented group in my tenure at Davidson.”
