Friday, 18 September 1981

Leland Park ’63 © - Library: Director Dr. Leland Park came to Davidson in 1959. Initiation began at once. “We had to wear beanies, nametags until Thanksgiving,” Dr. Park said. “We had to stay off the grass, learn the songs. If an upperclassman stopped you, you had to sing it, sit together at ball games, learn the cheers. . .” Freshmen couldn’t leave their seats in the gym until all the upperclassmen had gotten out. “We had a list of rules of conduct that we all had to purchase from the bookstore, and it had to be on the bulletin boards in the room. At the same time, the nametags would help you try to get some names and faces together.”

"The necessity of importing girls was terribly inconvenient,” Dr. Park said. There were three big weekends each year, which “were just absolute humdingers,” according to Dr. Park. “If you were a freshman, you depended on upperclassmen friends who would have a connection.” At the time, all the freshmen were living in Sentelle and Cannon. During the big weekends, Belk dormitory was completely emptied of students and all the upperclassmen would move in with us. The college maintained a large number of mattresses and they would be put in the rooms for you. It was not at all unusual that there would be three mattresses on the floor. The girls stayed in Belk. Ladies in town would volunteer to sit in the dormitory and the school would arrange an elaborate microphone system and there would be a speaker in the hall on each floor so that the girls could be paged when their dates arrived. “It was quite a fortress.” Since no drinking was allowed on campus, many parties were held in Charlotte.

Despite the many changes, there are “constants here that make Davidson the reason you want to stay: the fact that this is a first-rate educational institution, the fact that they respect people as individuals and respect integrity, honor, and truth, and the fact that everyone speaks to each other. . . These are the sort of values I think are really special.”

---

Collegiate Crossword

ACROSS
37 Type of music
38 Doesn't eat
1 Movie
39 Marcus
40 The Sunflower State
41 Part of APB, to police
5 Heroic tale
9 Song syllable
12 The state of being undamaged
43 Short opera solo
15 Pal
47 Grotto
16 Its capital is Dacca
50 Made do
17 Nobel chemist
51 Part of the hand
18 The art of putting on plays
52 Storage place
19 Pearson and Maddox
54 Far
21 Las Vegas
10 Regretful one
11 Vanderbilt and Lowell
13 Acquit
14 TheHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Lord is My 15 veal —— 20 Extends across 22 Turkic tribesmen 23 Mr. Guinness 24 Spanish for wolf 25 Retrace (3 wds.) 26 Disproof 28 Ends, as a broadcast (2 wds.) 29 Like Felix Unger 30 Drink to excess 31 Head inventory 32 Hurt or cheated 33 Italian painter 34 Chaste lives 35 Glided 36 Science writer, Asimov 37 Lead minerals 38 Length 39 Coquette 40 Take —— (pause) 41 Devices for refining flour 42 Teachers' organization 43 Famous volcano 44 Moves jerkily 45 Hollywood populace 46 Sheriff Taylor 47 "Golly" 48 Finished a take 49 Football trick 50 "Rock of ——" 51 Anklebones 52 Work with soil 53 Shore protectors 54 Too (2 wds.) 55 Size of stone 56 New Deal organization (2 wds.)

---

Mike Daisley ’78 Director of Corporate Programs

Michael Daisley entered Davidson in the fall of 1974. After one term he discovered the difficulty of time scheduling. “Winter term was rough,” Mr. Daisley said, “because I was playing JV basketball and had an eight o’clock computer course. I did a lot of sleeping in that course.”

The fervor over the new coeds was at its peak during Mr. Daisley’s freshman year. The class of 1978 was the second class with women. “The administration seemed to emphasize women’s ability to compete in the classroom,” Mr. Daisley said, “and did they ever. Generally speaking... they were not socially oriented, which was somewhat unfair to both the men and the women... I remember the men often yelled obscene things to the coeds and those women yelled obscene things back.”

Fraternity life differs very little from when he graduated, but other elements of Davidson life have changed. “I worked for WDAV when I was a student,” Mr. Daisley said. “Then it was known as the FM station with less power than your average light bulb [ten watts]. We played a potpourri of music.”

He emphasized that changes in the coed situation have been the most dramatic. “It now appears that the admissions office is looking for well-rounded women, like they always have for men.”

Mike Daisley, director of corporate development, is an advocate of reason, egoism, and capitalism. On a book to reach the men of a rags-to-riches intellect, wherever such men are found, Dr. Leonard Peikoff offers a 12-lecture course on Ayn Rand's philosophy, Objectivism. Miss Rand participates in most of the question periods. Recorded live in New York, this course will soon be given on tape in this area. Please call for details. A descriptive brochure is available on request. Contact Bob Klein, P.O. Box 3046, 892-8171. Sept. 18 & 25.

---

Note: The text has been cleaned for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.