March 27, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

Budget Cuts (Continued from page 1)

“The problem is that students as yet don’t realize the impact,” Peyser said. “They’re going to be hurt.” UNCC Chancellor and chairman of the American Council on Education E.K. Fretwell told CPS that the cuts would limit “choice for prospective students” and “research capacity, which is an irreplaceable national resource.” They would also “raise operating costs at a time when the financial conditions” of colleges are “particularly uncertain,” Fretwell added.

College President Samuel Spencer said the proposals would not have a large effect on Davidson's institutional finances, however. “The extent to which any institution will be hit by the proposed cuts will be in direct ratio to its dependence on federal aid...and our dependence compared to many institutions is relatively small,” Spencer said.

The increase in postal costs resulting from reduction in federal mail subsidies would cost the College an extra $700 monthly, according to Central Service Secretary Jane Biggestaff, since 90 percent of Davidson’s mail is first class.

According to the March 16 Chronicle, Reagan's budget proposals would eliminate a $5 million program of grants for college libraries. They also call for a 50 percent cut in funds for the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). Davidson currently has a $500,000 NEH challenge grant. Acting Vice President for Development Julius Melton said Davidson has already received $275,000 of the three-year challenge grant, which stipulates that the College raise $1.5 million to be awarded the total $500,000 grant. The grant is “contingent on funds being appropriated year to year,” Melton said, but he feels that instead of cutting back on already awarded funds, NEH would award fewer new grants in the future. The grant money goes into the College’s endowment, Melton explained. Income from the endowment is used for College expenses. If the grant were taken away, “it would be equivalent to preventing the purchase of 600 library books a year,” Melton said.

Budget cutbacks may “indirectly reduce research activities” of professors because there will be less grant money available to professors for summer study and to supplement sabbatical income, Melton said. There are, however, funds available from foundations and non-government organizations, he added.

Spencer said the American Council on Education, which has criticized Reagan’s proposals, would be “foolish to oppose all cuts” in the education budget. “It’s alarming to see how dependent society has become” on the federal government, Spencer said, so “maybe it’s good...to be forced to take critical looks at situations and see what we can do better.”

(Continued from page 1)

innovativeness, and his contact with campus groups are the strongest points of his candidacy. As a sophomore class senator, he helped organize the SGA’s rides to the airport program. This year he was SGA vice-president and chaired the Residence Hall Council, as well as serving on the Student Conduct Council, the Advisory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics, the Council on Campus and Religious Life, and the Activities Tax Council. He organized the new Corporate Contact Committee and worked with all other Senate Committees.

Chip Hurley unopposed as VP

By LISA DRAINE
Staff Correspondent

Sophomore Chip Hurley is running unopposed for SGA vice-president in next week’s election. Hurley said his main goals as vice-president will be to promote more student involvement in the SGA and to “assist the president in any way I can.” He will encourage students to attend SGA meetings and to work on various committees. He would like more students to serve on the Trustee Contact Committee and the Corporate Relations Committee. Hurley has extensive SGA experience.was a freshman class senator and is now president of the sophomore class. He said, “People are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn't be. We're just regular people, and we try to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.” 

Connie Brown, Receptionist

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841
Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

He has been active in the Trustee Contact Committee and the Corporate Relations Committee this year, and is currently organizing the entertainment for the SGA Student Admissions Weekend. He also helped form the Rides to the Airport Committee and the Freshman Food Committee. Hurley’s plans for next year include continuing and expanding the Student Phonathon for the Living Endowment, and planning more activities like the upcoming freshman-sophomore “Saturnalia” at the lake campus. Hurley is a political science major from Bluefield, West Virginia and a PiKA.

Candidates dining commons, the future of Richards and Bailey houses, student input in faculty tenure decisions, student parking, security, and housing. Dorsett agreed that Legerton mentioned significant student issues, but said that he thinks the SGA should concentrate more on projects. He said that the student phonathon for the Living Endowment should be expanded and that he would like to institute a managerial colloquium series similar to the pre-medical colloquium program. He would like for the Corporate Contact Committee to be even more active. He would also like to increase faculty-student contact by starting informal get-togethers in the College Union. He added that job placement for seniors is a big student issue the SGA should be involved in with more and more students going straight into the working world. 

Legerton would like to see the SGA become more involved in student funding. He said that student organizations that do not affect the whole campus should be funded through the SGA instead of the Activities Tax Council (ATC) because the SGA is more flexible. Dorsett said that he thinks the SGA does not have time in its meetings to take on funding of student organizations. Both candidates said that SGA work of recent years has greatly improved student-trustee relations. SGA Trustee sign-up dinners, the Trustee Contact Committee, Trustee cocktail parties, and especially small meetings of concerned students with trustees have drawn students and trustees together, they said. Neither candidate advocates opening Trustee meetings to student observers or having a voting student member on the Board of Trustees. They both said that the SGA president needs to relate in depth each meeting’s proceedings to the students, however. 

Dorsett is a history major from Raleigh, North Carolina and is an SAE. Legerton is a premedicine major from Charleston, South Carolina and a KA.

In The Dark

Hey, DID OUR PROSPECTIVE EVER SHOW UP?
by Scot Myers

84 on MY FACE. LAST TROLL. THE FIRST TROLL WHAT HAPPENED? I THREW THAT BLASTING AWAY THE HUGE BOULDER THAT BLOCKED THE NARROW PASS, STEWAL AND ARCHIE FIND THE OLD ROCK AT HIM. HE COULDN’T HAVE SURVIVED. BLASTED AWAY. VENG ASSURED SLENWAL SIGNAL WOMBAT 000. THERE ARE TWO MORE. THOSE ROCKS. THE TRIO SPENT THE NIGHT IN A NEARBY CAVE. AND ARCHIE THAT BLACK RINGS CASTLE WAS ONLY ONE. PANEL #3, BILL APPLETOWN.