Nick Graham reviews

The Quiet One; Airplane.

FINE FILMS HAS COME UP WITH something of a curiosity this week. The Quiet One was made in 1948 from
a fine screenplay by James Agee and was one of the first American films to address seriously the problems of
delinquency and the debilitating effect of inner-city life on ethnic minorities.

Put another way, it’s about the inevitable slide of one Donald (an astonishing performance by Donald Thompson), a black kid
in Harlem, into corruption and youthful crime before his rescue by a benignly omniscient psychiatrist. The Quiet One of the
title is, of course, Donald himself, who retreats into a highly personal world when down at street-level. Although this suggests
a treatment of street-life firmly rooted in the inner world of a fully-drawn character (admirably helped by Agee’s penetrating commentary),
the approbation which this feature has drawn from critics of the orthodoxly Marxist mould probably means that personality and its
concerns are gradually extinguished in favor of a more class-oriented view of delinquency, in which base is examined at the
expense of its superstructure.

The film alone, by virtue of its subject-matter, to say nothing of its treatment and style, was mildly revolutionary to
say the least. Previously, urban deprivation had tended to find its only expression in the romantic-escapism of Edward G. Robinson
gangster movies (i.e., the values and themes of the Western transferred to Prohibition Chicago). Films like Angels With Dirty Faces
tended to be the norm, and with the exception of the occasional outburst of sheer psychosis (Fritz Lang, White Heat,
High Sierra), audiences could almost be forgiven for failing to notice the changes in location from Monument Valley to the
Bronx.

At this time, there tended to be no middle ground between sentimentality and psychosis, and suddenly Hollywood discovered that it
was possible to make intelligent films about contemporary social conditions and not merely Meyers — The Quiet One is a
film which beautifully balanced the effects of Donald’s loveless parents and his indifferent grandmother with the wider concerns of the
street and life in the inner-city when the family is no longer by any means of protection.

All this was quite a revelation by any standards and opened the way for a host of ethnically acceptable movies.
(The appearance of a version of Alan Paton’s novel Cry, the Beloved Country was amusing. The initial parody of Jaws
is spectacular, something of a coup du cinéma in its own right, but some of the least the plight of
blacks could only be safely condemned if the blacks in question were firmly seen to be living in South Africa).
All this took time and the Herculean efforts of the likes of Sidney Poitier to establish quite firmly of course;
from The Quiet One to the blaxploitation movies of the Seventies is a long way, but this week’s Fine Film
marked, however quietly and however much it is now forgotten, a major step in the development of American film. As
such, and as the winner of numerous awards at the time of release, it thoroughly deserves your attention.

Fine Films also brings you last year’s spoof of the air-disaster movie Airplane. A spoof of many other things too,
some of which manage to be more than passingly amusing. The jute sight-gags can be seen coming from as far
away as Heathrow and too many of the one-liners are repetitive. Worth viewing, however, if you missed it the first
time around.

Institute of Policy Sciences and Public Affairs

Bex Fass

to discuss the Duke master’s program in Policy Studies. Interested students may obtain further information by contacting the office.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981
