February 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

Black perspectives
(Continued from page 1)

“Of the 31 black males here now, 24 play sports.”

“I think we need Black athletes but we need students who aren’t involved in sports as well,” Parker added.

Mingo felt that while black athletes may remain in their own groups, this is not a problem limited specifically to Blacks. “This isn’t just a Black phenomenon. White athletes stick together, too.”

Several of the panelists admitted that they often felt uncomfortable because of their small numbers. “Sometimes you feel like you're somebody's education. We are constantly on display, and I think we get tired of being our education,” Mingo said.

Freshman Harriett Gaston said, “I realized when I came as a prospective student that it wasn’t going to be easy.”

“I do feel uncomfortable sometimes, especially at mixers. Because of the small number of Blacks you realize you’re meeting people just for friends.”

Silvia Navarro-Jimene of Spain asked if Black students felt they had the same opportunities as whites in the job market. Parker replied, “I think I do. Coming from Davidson will help a lot. A Black student from Davidson has a better chance of getting a job in many areas than a student from a majority black college.

“There are those who say that we’ll have an easier time getting into law schools, for example, than whites. That’s not true.”

“For one thing we don’t have the contacts that white students do. In this sense I do feel I have to work harder to get a job than a white guy.”

Harriett Holshuijsen of Holland asked if Blacks tended to remain in one group at Davidson. Walker said, “We do have a tendency to stick together, mainly because we need to be around others with the same problems.”

Mingo felt that Blacks should not avoid contact with whites. “There’s a danger of alienating ourselves from the rest of the student body. When we get to the outside world, in law, business, or medicine, this is the way it's going to be. We’ve got to get used to it.”

Amr el Kadi, an Egyptian, asked if Blacks felt any ties to Africa. “I think unless you are well-read you have a hard time identifying with Africans,” said senior Terry Knox. “There is some distance between American Blacks and Africans but I can’t deny that there is some connection. Myths such as Black masculinity and so forth perhaps could be traced to old views of Africans, the way white society views us.”

“Yet I think the Afro-American has a hard time identifying with white America. Africa is a very rich historical background for us, a sort of Motherland. Africa doesn’t provoke the idea of oppression as America has, so naturally there is an attraction.”

Navarro-Jimene asked if the students felt any feelings of hostility around them. Parker said, “I don’t feel there’s any hostility but there is a lot of pressure on me when I’m the only Black in a classroom of whites to bring the Black perspective.”

Mingo agreed. “We're individuals. We don't represent all Black people.”

Navarro-Jimene asked if any of the Blacks felt uncomfortable when they ventured outside of their peer group. “We're here as a group of 46 out of 1300,” said Parker. “We can’t avoid the rest of Davidson.”

Knox said, “I don’t think there is any explicit pressure but interracial dating, for example, is difficult. Being a fairly conservative place it doesn’t occur that often.”

“In this respect Davidson is a microcosm of society in general. There is some interracial dating yet, while there is no pressure that it is wrong, many don’t feel comfortable with it.”

Asked what advice...She would give to Blacks coming to Davidson in the future. Mingo said, “I would tell them to be strong and not to lose themselves here.” Knox agreed that it is important that Blacks not lose their sense of identity at Davidson. “When I left to spend a year at Howard University in Washington, I felt disillusioned about Davidson. I felt I was losing myself in the Davidson experience; I was living assimilated. But I didn’t want to lose my Black identity.”

“While I didn’t leave just to be immersed in Blackness, Howard was one of the best experiences of my life. There were competent Black professors there as role models. Courses were taught giving the role of Blacks in history, for example. From this, I was able to see what can be done at Davidson.”

Responding to how Davidson could better meet the needs of Black students, Dockery said, “We need more Black students here to achieve a critical mass. The problem is that the Black Scholar is in high demand right now. Finding qualified students is a problem. There is also the problem of Davidson’s image as an ultra-conservative, lily-white institution. This will change with time, but to make life here more tolerable for Black students, we need greater numbers.”

Dockery cited administration awareness of the problem as cause for hope. “The administration has made a commitment to increasing the number of Blacks here. We are doing a great deal of work now on the Committee on Minorities in terms of information gathering.”

“The whole situation of thinking Black-White is distressing,” Dockery said. “Once you accept that, though, the important question is what can be done to foster the notion that these differences are superficial. How does one get beyond physical skin color? Shared experience is the only way.”

“The situation here is transitory and circumstantial,” he added. “Many problems for Blacks are due to history and not specific obstacles. Again, it’s a matter of changing Davidson’s image. There is a problem of equating minorities with insignificance. A group’s significance cannot be judged by its size,” he said.

Gvt. Loans (Continued from page 1)

Political Science professor Mary Thornberry said Reagan will modify Carter's proposals to conform to the Republican platform. According to The Chronicle of Higher Education, the Reagan Administration indicated that GSLs “will be one of the prime targets of their efforts to cut federal spending.” Thornberry said Reagan’s speech on the economy Thursday night should specify the programs to receive budget cutbacks. Stevenson suggested that concerned students write their congressmen about the future of the GSLs program.

JOHN V. WASHAM
Dispensing Optician
Both Soft and Hard Contact Lenses. Eye glass prescriptions filled. Wide selection of frames. Eyeglass repair. Duplication of your present lenses.
Off Hwy 21, 1 mile south of Cornelius
Across from Lakeside Restaurant
892-7500

Happy hour pitcher $2.00
Fast pizza service - 7 days a week.
Thursday night delivery special: $7.00 off on 16” pizza 8:30-11:30 PM
Thursday night: 892-8686
Friday night at 8 and 10:30
ROGER MOORE as IAN FLEMING’S JAMES BOND 007 in “THE SPY WHO LOVED ME”

“People are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn't be. We're just regular people, and we try to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.” Connie Brown, Receptionist

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control.
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0041
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 PM