February 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Eve arises — Women ministers are forceful and multiplying

Kathryn Murray ‘83

Until quite recently men have dominated the ministry more than any other profession. In the past decade, however, the percentage of women in seminaries has increased from 30 to 40 percent. And an increasing number of female seminarians want to be ordained rather than settling for teaching jobs. The tension between male domination of the ministry and the arrival of women clergy has both scriptural and historical relevance. The Bible gives contradicting views of the status of women. Woman’s role in the Church has changed—and generally grown—through history.

SCRIPTURAL BACKGROUND

Biblical passages such as I Corinthians 11: 3-9 and 14: 34 imply that woman is subordinate to man—and should even be submissive and silent in church.
—“...the head of every man is Christ, the head of every woman is her husband, and the head of Christ is God” (I Cor. 11: 3).
—“Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man” (I Cor. 11: 9).
—“As in all the churches of the saints, the women should keep silence in the churches” (I Cor. 14: 34).

On the other hand, Galatians 3: 26-28 is frequently used to demonstrate sexual equality: “For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God, through faith...there is neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus.”

Also, Jesus’s attitude towards women emphasizes their importance. In Luke 10: 42 Jesus has Mary refrain from her household chores in order to hear Him. In Mark 5: 21-34 Jesus delays Jarius’s plea for help to respond to a woman and demands that she publicly confess her faith in his healing power.

The Old Testament story of Eve’s being Adam’s helper formed from his rib is commonly cited as evidence of woman’s subordinate status. However, Karl Barth’s interpretation of the creation of woman suggests that she should be considered man’s equal. Adam needs a helper but finds the animals of the world unsuitable, for they are his inferiors. Thus, God creates woman to fill man’s special need. Woman is a necessary companion for man’s completeness and vice versa. Also, Barth points out that woman is purely the creation of God. Man neither requested her nor imagined her beforehand. Thus, only by slightly preceding her in time does man have priority over woman.

HISTORICAL BACKGROUND

A practical reason for supporting the ordination of women is that women would probably minister to children and other women more effectively than do men. Also, many churches are now in need of ministers and should therefore not reject ministerial candidates merely on sexual grounds. However, George Tavard writes in Women in Christian Tradition that woman’s place in the church should be determined ultimately on religious grounds.

A look at incidents in Church history shows that women have been—at least sporadically—key religious figures. In the early Church the three orders of women were deaconesses, widows, and virgins. In Romans 16: 1-2 deaconess Phoebe is mentioned as one who assists the bishop, attends to the ill, ministers to non-believers, and performs charitable acts. Widows had somewhat fewer duties, praying and ministering to the sick. Little is known about the duties of virgins, although Philip’s four virgin daughters had the gift of prophecy.

Many women aided Paul in his ministry. Priscilla, the wife of Aquila the tent maker of Corinth, might have been a secretary to Paul, and a slight possibility exists that she wrote the book of Hebrews. Evidence exists that there were women priests and possibly bishops in the early church. Porthia Irvin has found frescoes and mosaics showing women priests receiving ordination.

In the Seventeenth Century, Anne Hutchinson protested against the harsh Calvinistic tradition in New England. She promoted the concept of God’s grace and called for an emphasis of means to determining God's will. Lucretia Collins Mott, at the Seneca Falls Declaration of Sentiments, proposed the resolution “the speedy success of our cause depends upon the zealous and untiring efforts of both men and women for the overthrow of the monopoly of the pulpit.”

The first woman to be ordained was Antoinette Brown (1825-1921). She was ordained by the Congregational Church in South Butler, New York on September 15, 1853. In 1954, the Methodist Church and the United Presbyterian Church USA gave women the same rights as men to all leadership positions. The Southern Presbyterian Church did the same in 1964, followed by the Lutheran Church and the American Lutheran Church in 1970.

CURRENT SITUATION

In the article “Women and the Pastorate,” in Theology Today, 1978, several women ministers gave an evaluation of their status and contentment with their positions. Gail A. Ricciuti, co-pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Byron, New York claims she received much encouragement from lay persons but felt her male colleagues were sometimes unfriendly. Jean Anne Swope of the Women’s Program of the United Presbyterian Church USA claimed that of 315 ordained clergywomen, “only 18% are now full pastors of churches, and 41% are serving in other than pastoral categories. Yet it is predicted that in two years the number of ordained women will double.”

Daphne W.P. Hawkes, Assistant Rector of the Trinity Episcopal Church in Princeton, New Jersey claims that in the Episcopal Churches women are increasingly denied acceptance because bishops fear opposition from traditionalist church members, who often go so far as to leave the Church. She claims that women are required to have a job before they are ordained. There are 13,000 men among the Episcopal clergy, but only 60 women.

Rev. Harriet Ohen preaches at Calvary Presbyterian Church in Davidson.More and more women are “marrying” in the priestly sense. Rev. Ohen attended Presbyterian School of Christian Education and later Union Theological Seminary. She experienced little opposition from the seminary students but did feel some tension from more traditional faculty members. Rev. Ohen hopes that women ministers will serve as role models for the younger generation.

STRATEGIES FOR IMPROVEMENT

With the potential benefits of increasing the number of women in the ministry, what can be done to encourage women during and after their ministerial studies? One innovation in the past few years has been curricular changes in seminaries which include courses dealing with theological questions about women and their place in the Church and the effects of sexist liturgical language. Other courses focus on women’s influence on Church history. Increased research in these areas and a greater number of women applicants to seminaries should lead to a better environment for women to develop their potential as pastors, preachers, and church leaders.

This article is adapted from a paper Kathryn wrote for Dr. Sam Maloney’s Christian Ethics class.

Recruiting minority faculty, serving students — it’s still a long, hard road

Cynthia Grant, Professor of Biology

In the spring of 1980, President Spencer appointed an eleven-person Committee on Minorities with representation from students, faculty, and staff. The purpose of the committee is to identify “concerns and needs of members of minorities at Davidson, especially members of the black minority” and to suggest ways to increase representation of minority students, faculty, and staff.

The largest minority on campus is women. Coeducation at Davidson is less than ten years old, during which time there has been no difficulty in attracting eligible women to enroll. Early problems with being a small minority have decreased, as can be seen, for example, in the recent change of name for the Wednesday 900 Room luncheons from Minorities Luncheon to the Campus Forum Luncheon. The College has been successful in recruiting women for faculty and staff positions (the faculty is now about 13% women), and the College expects continued success. The Committee on Minorities sees a need to be aware of the concerns of this minority and to make recommendations as necessary.

The next largest minority at Davidson is blacks. The Committee has devoted most of its time to the concerns of this group. Davidson enrolled its first two black students in the fall of 1964. Since that time, the number has risen slowly but rather steadily to the current high of 45. This growth reflects the recruiting efforts of the Admissions office, which continues to seek new ways to reach potential students, as well as the efforts of enrolled students, alumni, and athletic coaches. The recruiting weekend held two weeks ago, for example, was a joint effort of the Black Students Coalition and the Admissions Office. Although numbers are small, it appears that there has also been some increase in the College’s retention of enrolled minority students.

The two problems go hand in hand, as the committee found out very quickly. Enrollment and retention boil down to the problems that exist for the minority student at any predominantly white institution. For many students, one problem is an isolation from a black community, which is compounded by transportation difficulties that become very important, for example, in attempts to learn of church options in Charlotte. In addition, there are very few campus events directed toward blacks. These problems will not disappear but could be partially alleviated by having two or three times as many blacks here as there are now, and the question of increasing enrollment has been discussed many times by the committee. A brochure, for use by the Admissions Office in recruiting high school blacks, is being prepared by enrolled students and the Admissions Office. Also under consideration is the possibility of having minority students participate in trips to selected recruiting fairs.

Contiguous with the above problems is that of increasing minority representation in the faculty, staff, and administration. Davidson has had less success in this area than in any other minority recruiting effort. The Committee on Minorities has suggested that position openings be advertised in publications presumed to be read by minorities and Davidson positions have been so advertised. The question arises whether these advertisements are worthwhile, and that cannot be answered. Sincere efforts by many departments to recruit minority individuals have resulted in a few minority candidates. In the process of review of applications for a vacant position, there is no way to ascertain an applicant’s race. As a start in finding and recruiting minority faculty, the committee has established, in Dean Zimmermann’s office, a file of the names of individuals who might be willing to serve as guest speakers or in a visiting-lectureship capacity for a term. Additional names for this file may be given to any member of the committee.

The primary work of the Committee on Minorities to date has been to assess the current situation with minorities and there is considerably more work to be done in this area. Plans are being developed for a forum on minority problems to be held during the spring term, after more information has been gathered. There are, obviously, many permutations of the issues raised here and within the committee. The College recognizes these problems and is committed to finding good solutions as quickly as possible.

The current committee includes: Chairman John Kelton (on leave), Acting Chairman Cynthia Grant, French Professor Charles Dockery, Dean of Students Will Terry, Admissions Director John Griffith, Personnel Director Robert Stephenson, Head Football Coach Ed Farrell, Senior Alvin Atkinson, and Sophomores John Eley and Suzanne Hutchings.

Cynthia Grant is Acting Chairman of the Committee on Minorities and a Professor of Biology.