1942 when Britten was returning to England after a brief residence in this country. The Chancel Choir is directed by Jane Cain.

2 PM Computer Center (the old doctors’ offices behind the P.O.). The Prime Users Group (PUG) is sponsoring an open house. They'll discuss how to “Log-in” to the system and how to use the computer to write papers, letters, etc. Also to be discussed is how to write and run programs in Basic and other languages. The computer is a great tool; learn to use it.

6 PM WDAV: Seixas: Four Toccatas for Harpsichord; Mozart: Adagio in F major, K. 410; Brahms: Ballades, Op. 10.

6:45 PM Post Office. All students are invited to go caroling with Chaplain Charlie Summers which will culminate in a community-wide caroling at the Village Green.

7 PM Union. College Bowl Intramurals for the championship, Stud vs. Phelta Thi.

8 PM Lingle Chapel. Moravian Lovefeast—come help us celebrate Christmas in this ancient Moravian Service. All are welcome to come and enjoy some hot coffee, a bun, and the warmth of the Christmas spirit.

6 PM WDAV. Boccherini: Sinfonia in D minor, “La Casa del Diavolo”; Bach: Cello Suite No. 6 in D major, BWV 1012.

7 PM Mozart: Piano Trio in B-flat Major, KV 502; Rachmaninoff: Vocalise.

8-10 PM Union Christmas Party. Come to the campus-community wide celebration. Complete with eggnog, caroling, tree-decorating, and all sorts of Christmas cheer. In the Big Screen Room there'll be all your favorite Christmas shows. Tom Clark will be making gnomes. And if that isn’t enough, Santa Claus himself will even make an appearance.

8 PM The New York Philharmonic. Rafael Kubelik conducts Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9. The Westminster Choir directed by Joseph Flummerfelt sings with the New York Philharmonic in this performance of the great Choral Symphony.

10 PM WDAV. Flipsides.

10 PM Morrison Room. Student Worship Service. Come for a little inspiration on those pre-holiday reviews.

7:30 PM Charlotte Coliseum. Men's basketball. DC vs. Appalachian. Tickets: Box seats $7, Circle $5, Mezzanine $4, Gen. Admission $3.

10 PM WDAV. Flipsides.

10 PM 900 Room. Disco. It’s your last chance for romance before the Christmas break. Should be real fun!

10 AM Gallery. Coffee & Cokes. Bid your favorite profs and administrators a final “Merry Christmas” before the holidays.

Noon-1:30 PM Depot. Depot Lunch. For $1.25 you can munch away on sandwiches, chips, cookies, ice cream, etc. See your friends, profs, and townspeople. Sponsored by the Y-Service Corps.

3:30 PM Union Café. Pancake Eating Contest. Ever thought you were a big kid because you could eat a stack of pancakes bigger than what your sis could? Well, here’s another chance to prove your big kiddedness. Remember, wimp, don’t be a carnivore, capture the essence of doughivore!

6 PM WDAV. Mozart: Quintet for Horn & Strings in E-flat, K. 407; Mendelssohn: Sonata in D Major for Cello and Piano.

7 PM WDAV. Dancetalk... Kathryn Horne, Artistic Director of Dance Charlotte, hosts this program of dance music called “Get Your Prop—What It’s Like to Be an Opera Ballerina.”

7 PM Johnston Gym. Wrestling. DC vs. Livingstone. Admission is free.

8 PM WDAV. The Cleveland Orchestra. Conductor Lorin Maazel leads another Severance Hall concert with the Women of the Cleveland Orchestra Chorus. Violinist Kyung-Wha Chung is the soloist in Stravinsky's Violin Concerto. Barber's Adagio for Strings and “The Planets” by Holst complete the program.

10 PM WDAV. Flipsides.

10:15 AM Lingle Chapel. DCPC Worship Service. This is your last chance to hear our own Charlie Chaplain before Christmas break. It’s really short and really good.

9:30 PM 900 Room. Monday Night Football, ID’s required. Come watch your favorite team play towards the Superbowl.

12-1:30 PM 900 Room. CROP Lunch. $1 donation for World Hunger. Please come! Sponsored by the Y-Student Corps.

6 PM WDAV. Bruckner: String Quartet in C minor; Beethoven: Leonore Overture.

7 PM Rodrigo: Concierto de Aranjuez for Guitar & Orchestra; Handel: Concerto in D Major for 2 Horns, 2 Oboes, Bassoon, and Strings.