March 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—5

ERA: freedom of choice and legal guidelines for both men and women

Katherine Allen ‘81, Robin Eubanks ‘81, and Betsy Thomas ‘82

Proposed Amendment XXVII
“Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State
on account of sex.”

Despite the direct language and straightforward purpose of this amendment, storms of controversy continue to brew over the necessity and
wisdom of passing it. The Equal Rights Amendment demands serious consideration and, although legal ignorance and reactionary fears create some
opponents, they cannot easily ignore the importance of passing the ERA.

Unquestionably, we need the ERA to provide explicit constitutional protection of equal rights for both women and men. Current statutes
and constitutional amendments simply do not sufficiently guarantee such rights. The Supreme Court consistently refuses to interpret the Equal Protection
Clause of the 14th amendment as granting women the same rights which the ERA would provide. Because the 14th amendment
was passed to protect blacks from discrimination, the court uses it to declare every race category a “suspect classification” for
employment, government benefits, etc. Thus, the courts use tests of “strict scrutiny” in any case involving racial discrimination. However, sex
discriminating classifications are never “suspect” and demand only tests of “strict reasonableness” as seen in such cases as Kahn v.
Shevin, 1974 and Craig v. Boren, 1976.

Although sex discrimination in employment practices is forbidden under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, other sections
of the Act are riddled with loopholes. The areas of insurance, pensions, and criminal law all remain highly sex discriminatory.
Even with an extensive campaign for statutes to cover these areas, it would be difficult to nullify many existing state
laws, requiring massive bureaucratic enforcement. Finally, a statute is relatively easy to reverse in comparison to a constitutional amendment. What
one Congress passes, a more conservative Congress can undo, which makes critical pieces of legislation vulnerable to changing political tides.

We should not recoil immediately at the idea of women in military service. Under the ERA, women will become eligible
for all military benefits and leadership positions now denied to them. Women could become exempt from service if they have
primary childcare responsibilities in a family. In the 1971 draft, only 1% of eligible men were actually assigned to combat
duty, according to former Indiana Senator Birch Bayh. Because of the physical requirements for combat duty, the number of women
in combat duty would probably be less than 1% of the total pool. Denying equal rights to the female population
in the U.S. because 1% of them might someday go into combat is ridiculously shortsighted. If the issue of women
in combat becomes totally unacceptable, a “compelling state interest,” recognized as valid by the Supreme Court, could exempt females from
that area of military service even after the passage of the ERA. Thus, the consequences of ERA on women in
the armed services should not discourage support for the amendment.

In contrast to these current laws, the ERA will focus specifically on the issue of sex discrimination. ERA will establish
a national standard of equal rights for people regardless of sex and will invalidate state laws which discriminate on the
basis of gender. Most opposition to the ERA stems from fears surrounding its far-reaching effects in our society. First, let's
rid ourselves of these myths by examining how the courts will interpret the amendment. According to the 1972 Minority Report
of the Senate, all classifications based on sex will become illegal under ERA except those involving the privacy of bodily
functions and physical characteristics unique to one sex. Thus, ERA will not enforce homosexual marriages, unisex bathrooms, or co-ed dorm
rooms. In his January 30 Davidsonian editorial, Charles Douglas correctly stated that failure to include women in the draft and
in combat duty because of their sex would be “a blatant example of classification by sex" and thus a violation
of the ERA.

Title IX of the Equal Education Act has already made great strides in making public institutions non-discriminatory, but the ERA
offers a more comprehensive approach by unifying equal education with equal employment opportunities, property ownership, and other sex-neutral rights. Like
other amendments, the ERA only affects areas involving state or federal action, thus distinguishing between the public and the private
sector. Therefore, under the ERA, any private schools, clubs, or organizations will retain their rights to choose membership along whatever
lines they wish.

This brings us back to the central purpose of the ERA: freedom of choice. We cannot ignore the symbolic value
of the ERA and the impact it will have on attitudes and practices. The ERA guarantees that each woman and
man has the freedom to choose whether she or he wants a career in the workforce or a career maintaining
a home and rearing children. Neither should be denied to women or men. Too often one confuses change in our
society with the loss of freedom, but the central purpose of the ERA is freedom of choice.the ERA would require
public schools and state universities to provide the same opportunities for both men and women. However, contrary to Charles Douglas’
belief, the ERA would not lead to the deterioration of social stability. The ERA covers a range of areas which
this single article cannot fully explore. Yet the consequences of the ERA are clearer than those of the original constitutional
amendments. If the earliest American citizens had the foresight to pass the Bill of Rights to protect individual liberties, shouldn't
we, after 200 years, pass the Equal Rights Amendment to ensure that protection for all people regardless of gender?

Black Student Coalition deserves attention.
John Eley ‘83

Last month, the Black Student Coalition presented a wide variety of programs in recognition of Black History Month. In the
past two years, the Coalition has made a new thrust in the area of programming, bringing a number of speakers
and presenting student-led cultural events and discussions. This year’s programs were most strikingly marked not by the enthusiasm with which
Coalition members prepared the programs, nor by the unquestionable benefits to be gained from consideration of the viewpoints expressed, but
regrettably by the dismally low attendance of the events by the Davidson student body. Low student attendance of programs is
by no means a problem unique to the B.S.C. Union Committees spend much time brainstorming for ways to attract more
students to Union-sponsored events. However, the BSC’s problem is in some ways unique. In this article, I will discuss the
BSC’s new role, the unique problems it faces in attracting the general student body to programs, and the relationship between
the “Black experience” and the Black person as an individual. With this, I hope to increase understanding of the objectives
the B.S.C has chosen to pursue and to underline the pertinence of the issues discussed in the BSC programs.

The BSC can serve Davidson College in a number of ways. Our new thrust reflects three of our objectives:
—To accent Black culture in America.
—To address issues pertinent to Black America.
—To increase understanding of the “Black experience.”

The realization of these objectives will benefit the college by equipping students with the tools needed for understanding and dealing
with a group of people that make up almost one-fourth of the population. Clearly, such tools would be of benefit
to the physicians, lawyers, businessmen, and politicians who will lead the South for the next fifty years. The realization of
those goals is hindered, however, by the lack of student attendance at BSC events. This problem has a unique aspect
with the Coalition in that it reflects the dynamics of minority-majority relations in any social structure. Because the majority is,
by definition, the group in power, the minority is forced either to be sensitive to the folkways and mores of
the majority or to face the negative sanctions with which a society punishes deviant behavior. In simple terms, Blacks must
learn about White culture in order to survive.

On the other hand, Whites do not have this incentive to learn about Black culture. Combined with a “normal” dose
of egocentrism and ethnocentrism, this condition makes it difficult to attract the Davidson student body to BSC programs. Nonetheless, the
Coalition has begun its new thrust in programming in order to increase campus-wide sensitivity to the “Black experience.” Realizing that
many Davidson students are from backgrounds of both limited interaction with Blacks on a level of equality and of limited
discussion of the social issues facing Black America, the Coalition has accepted the charge of increasing this interaction and discussion.

As we pursue this goal, it is important to understand that no individual is a product of the Black Experience.
As the term implies, Blackness in America is an individually experienced phenomenon. It is important to recognize that a Black
person is an individual human being. Blackness is only a part of what makes that person an individual. Concerning interpersonal
relations, the Coalition does not intend to mislead the campus into believing that each Black person is merely one chunk
of a homogeneous group. It is hoped that increased understanding of the Black experience will lead to a deeper understanding
of the individual who reacts to that experience.

John Eley is a sophomore Political Science major from Ahoskie, North Carolina, and the Chairman of the Black Student Coalition
Special Events Committee. Eley is active in the Committee on Minorities and a member of PiKA.

Katherine Allen is a senior religion major from Memphis, Tennessee, and a member of the Davidson chapter of the National
Organization for Women (NOW). Robin Eubanks is a senior history major from Marietta, Georgia, and Betsy Thomas, a junior from
Cincinnati, Ohio, is a political science major. The three participated in a tutorial on Women and the Law with Political
Science Professor Mary Thornberry winter term.

The Davidsonian welcomes columns on any subject. We reserve the right to edit for clarity, length, and accuracy. Call Opinions
Editor James Barrat (892-6257) if interested. Columns do not necessarily represent the views of Davidsonian editors or staff.
