Wright takes top honors

Senior Jeff Wright

‘What did I like most?’ or ‘What did I dislike most?’ It pushed me further than I would have pushed myself and I’m better for it.” She also thought it was very beneficial “meeting lots of interesting people from all over the eastern seaboard.”

Ellen is still considering the army as a career,

“I’m planning to be a family physician. I want to serve my residency with an army facility. If I like it, I'll stay. If I don’t, I won’t.”

John Shaw

For his efforts this summer, Cadet Lieutenant Colonel John Shaw was chosen first in his company of 250 cadets and first in his platoon. He was in the top sixteen of all 3700 cadets at camp.

According to Colonel Powell of the Davidson ROTC department, John’s performance at camp was a key factor in his being named top cadet at Davidson and subsequently the cadet commander of the Davidson College ROTC battalion.

Following completion of advanced camp, John completed Air Assault School in Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Having tied for second in his class, John graduated from the school with honors. Regarding his summer successes, John simply commented, “Responsibility and leadership come easily.”

According to John, training camp was not challenging, but “Air Assault School was more challenging because they made you think at that place.”

After graduation, John plans to go to Fort Sill in Oklahoma for training in Field Artillery. He is looking forward to the opportunity to travel that the army provides.

While John sees the army as a part of his future, he is not certain about his long-range plans. John explains, “I don’t know yet; I don’t want to commit myself for twenty or thirty years.”

Jeff Wright

Cadet Major Jeff Wright was recently selected to head the ROCS unit, a program for especially motivated cadets desiring more extensive military experience. Presently, Jeff is helping prep juniors for their upcoming camp experience.

According to Col. Powell, “This office is an honor based not only on his exceptional performance at advanced camp at Fort Bragg, but also on his three-year performance here. He has a positive attitude and outstanding physical conditioning.”

Jeff was selected the number one cadet in his platoon at Fort Bragg. He also excelled in skills at the Regular Army Airborne School at Fort Benning, Georgia.

Davidson’s overall ranking

Not only did individuals rank highly this summer, but the team showing also was impressive. In 1980, the Davidson cadets placed 43rd among 102 schools participating; they placed 9th among the 19 schools in the North Carolina, South Carolina, and South Florida region. This year, Davidson placed 17th of 106 schools participating and first among the 19 in the region.

28 October 1981

Learn what it takes to lead

College military science courses are courses in leadership development. You learn techniques involved in the management of resources. Techniques that are applicable to any management job. Another important leadership characteristic is interpersonal relationships. Things are accomplished by people and the kind of relationship established goes a long way in determining your success as a leader. Whether you intend to become a manager in a military or civilian career, Army ROTC can give you a competitive edge.

Don't wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact

CPT Al Brauer
ROTC Dept.
892-2000 ext. 336