Math Dept. adds Davis

by David Resnik ‘85

Assistant Professor Steven Davis is a new member of Davidson’s mathematics department. Dr. Davis teaches Math 25 (Calculus I) and
Math 23 (Computers and Statistics) this term, and is tentatively scheduled to teach Math 26 (Calculus II) and Math 152
(Abstract Algebra II) in the winter term.

Dr. Davis comes to the College from a Midwest background. He was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa; spent his early
childhood in Yankton, South Dakota, and Elmhurst, Illinois; attended elementary school in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, junior high school in Cedar Rapids,
and went to high school in Saint Charles, Missouri. He remained in Saint Charles and attended Lindenwood College, a small
liberal arts school where he earned a B.A. in math. Dr. Davis moved back to the Mideast and went to
graduate school at Dartmouth College. After receiving his Ph.D. in math, Dr. Davis moved to Columbus, Ohio, where he has
spent the last three years as a temporary instructor at Ohio State University.

He decided that he wanted to teach at Davidson after reading the job description written by department head Professor Bruce
Jackson. The advertisement described a school that put its highest priority on teaching. This contrasted with the OSU policies, which
put more of an emphasis on research. Dr. Davis was also seeking a smaller environment: at OSU he would routinely
teach two hundred or more students in one class. Dr. Davis believes that OSU is concerned with building a top-ten
department and will do so at the expense of the students and professors. He summarized this scheme as being “cost-effective
for the university but not learning-effective for the students.”

Steven Davis decided to come to Davidson College not only because he agreed with its administrative practices but also because
he was impressed with its students. “Davidson students are more willing to try and comprehend what’s going on.” He feels
that students at OSU are waging a war with required courses, that many of them regard school as a “process
of being taught rather than learning.” The tragedy that befalls many OSU students, says Davis, is “when they fight the
fact that they have to learn the stuff, then they have no energy left to learn.”

Teaching under the Honor Code

Although not his main reason for coming to Davidson, the honor system has impressed Dr. Davis since he has been
here. At OSU, the students devised resourceful methods of cheating and the professors had to retaliate with preventive measures. When
he taught there, he would design two or three different test forms and authorize monitors to patrol the room. He
is glad that the students here are more responsible, and he is “happy to be away from the police-state situation.”

Dr. Davis’ primary professional interest is finite group theory, a subsection of algebra concerned with the properties of certain finite
groups that range in size from just a few to 10^8 members. This field is unique in mathematical research because
its main problem has finally been solved after one hundred and fifty years of investigation. There’s not much work, apparently,
left to be done in the area except for explaining minor problems, which he will address in a forthcoming issue
of Communications in Algebra.

Since the field has been cleared, Dr. Davis and a partner “swept out the last few cobwebs.” Algebraic coding theory
is another of his interests.

Outside the classroom

Dr. Davis met his wife Elisabeth in high school and married her in college. They will celebrate their tenth anniversary
this December. They have two daughters: Anne, 17 months, and Laura, 5 years old; and a dog that is older
than both the children. Dr. Davis juggles and reads in his spare time. He likes to keep up with the
sports scene, and he has attended a couple of Davidson soccer games. He also played basketball in college on the
first male team in a previously all-female school.

After hopping back and forth between large towns, large schools, small towns, and small schools for most of his life,
Steven Davis is ready to settle down. He is “hoping to stick around for a while.”

Complete Prescription Service
Cosmetics * Sundries * Greeting Cards
Russell Stover Candies
REXALL DRUGS

“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”

131 N. Main Street Davidson, N.C.

892-0208

Mon. - Sat. 9 - 6; Temporarily Closed on Sun.
Senior Citizen Discount - 10%

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981

Barber for men and women
You name it, we'll style it.

Norton’s Barbershop, Davidson

photo courtesy Communications Dept.
