P sildpousd dtadesl yd

The Lyndon B. Johnson Memorial Library at the University of Texas-Austin has been called the “Temple at Karnak” because of its grandiose pretensions. One’s eyes climb six stories of beige travertine marble before the first windows appear. One exhibit pays homage to his sense of humor. Another applauds his Great Society. LBJ is not everyone’s favorite president; some say he kept us in Vietnam because he held stock in war machine manufacturing companies. There is some doubt as to whether he deserves such a heartwarming ($25 million) “thank-you.”

Richard Milhous Nixon graduated from Duke Law in 1937. Duke President Terry Sanford proposed earlier this year that the University donate land for his library.

There may be room for speculation concerning LBJ, but few can doubt Nixon’s dishonesty. In fact, just two weeks ago a fresh Nixon-Haldeman conversation was released in which Nixon suggests that Teamsters Union “thugs” be sent to “knock the heads off” hippie peace protesters dancing on the White House lawn.

Despite a minor revolution from the school’s Academic Council opposing any monument to Nixon, the University’s Board of Trustees decided on 5 September to go ahead with negotiations for the library and museum.

The Academic Council rejected “the creation of any museum or memorial designed to foster the glorification of the former president.” They are “concerned at the consequences for our university of its name becoming inextricably tied to our country’s only president forced to resign in disgrace.”

It is ironic that the majority of the opposing faculty members are from the History department. So these professors want to erase Nixon’s records from public memory, making a farce of their own discipline? Says Larry Goodwyn, History professor and one of the leaders of the opposition, “I don’t know about you but I’ll be damned if I’m going to want to look up from wherever I am on campus for the rest of my life and have to see that thing.” Duke alumnus William Styron (Sophie’s Choice) might prefer that the records be kept, but just in some dark closet instead of Duke; “To establish any connection, no matter how tenuous, with the works of a man who brought such disgrace to his high office, tarnishes the image of the institution we serve.”

On the other hand, National Archives figures indicate that no serious scholar visits a presidential library; 300 tourists visit.

If Nixon were already dead, much, if not all, of their opposition to the library would vanish. Pinsky asks us all: “Would you want R.N. sulking around your neighborhood?”

Not all the faculty, students, and alumni are in such strong opposition to the plan. A petition of faculty supporters was released last Tuesday, signed by 75 faculty members. “We have no doubt that the Nixon library would be a resource of exceptional value to faculty and students at Duke and the Research Triangle,” said a letter prepared by three faculty members. Also, according to a recent Duke University Republicans’ poll, almost 50% of the Duke students favor the library.

The opportunity to provide scholarly resources was one of the major factors behind the Scholarly Resources Act, passed in 1955.

Duke Psychology professor John Climer imagines that tourists will want to visit Duke Chapel as well as the Nixon shrine. That way they could be in the presence of God and the Prince of Darkness on the same day.

Mark J. Pinsky of the Village Voice suggests that the locals may not be as squeamish about tourists snooping around as Old Richard Himself. Most of those opposing faculty he interviewed “admitted that when our associates at other universities ridicule us, we may remind them that we are engaged in the search for truth, and that the truth about Watergate is in these papers, and that we have placed the freedom of academic inquiry above person, party, or passion,” but, he added, “I shall not knowingly or willingly raise the social glass in his [Nixon’s] presence.”

Nixon will probably be one of the most studied of all presidents. He is a tragic figure of both great achievement and failure. There will be some sort of archival facility for his study at Duke, but will it be an austere ash-brick filing cabinet or a Californian Taj Mahal? Will the attractions of Pat’s jewels and Dick’s vacation slides outweigh the structure’s historical purpose?

Wayne Field of Minnesota has a suggestion which he mailed to Duke, the National Archives, and Nixon’s office. His plans for the “Nixon Center” consist of a 5-story pyramid — a 385,000 square foot cross between the Hanging Gardens of Babylon and an Aztec temple, equipped with 6,400 square feet on the top floor for ex-presidential living quarters.

Unfortunately, Field’s plan will not be taken any more seriously than his 1974 plan to pay off Nixon’s debts by auctioning his tapes and documents to the public. He was kind enough to start the ball rolling by offering Nixon $1 million for his tapes and mementos.