Ui bed aso ¥s.
Two radiant mesdemoiselles have come to Davidson College this year. They have brought all the vitality and charm of their culture to the campus. You cannot find them in Richardson Dorm, however, because the ladies are new members of the French Department.

The new assistant French professors are Monique Guizard and Christine Vance. Both have temporary appointments, speak English with a distinct French accent, and are excited about their new teaching opportunities.

Before coming to Davidson, Monique Guizard taught at Université Paul Valéry in Montpellier, France, the same school where she had earned her Doctorat in Psychology and Maîtrise in Linguistics. Dr. Guizard has been teaching French since 1974 and likes working closely with her students. Her hobbies include singing, dancing, and acting, and her main professional interest is the art of teaching French. Dr. Guizard has held seminars on the use of audio and visual techniques in teaching French.

According to her method, no other language except French should be spoken in the classroom. Students must decipher the French by picking up on the clues that are provided for them. They learn to match French words with pictures. Dr. Guizard tries to help her students build confidence because they have little to rely on beyond their own reasoning abilities.

Dr. Guizard arrived in America for the first time a few weeks ago and is still adjusting to the new lifestyle. She knew many American students in Montpellier and was impressed by their openness to new people and their willingness to learn.

Dr. Guizard and Christine Vance feel at home in Davidson.

Dr. Guizard will return to her community in Algiers but has enjoyed her time here. Christine Vance has a different background and culture. She first studied English in France in order to become an English teacher, but after a one-year stay in America as a Fulbright student, she decided that she would rather teach French to Americans. She went to graduate school at the Sorbonne in Paris and then to Vanderbilt University, where she earned a Ph.D. in French. She still likes being around students.

In May, Nancy Heisel graduated from the University of Missouri. She then headed south for her first job. In July, she was appointed manager of the new Union Café.

"Work is very busy here because everything is so new for me," she said, disappearing to answer the phone which rang right on cue. "I’m really enjoying the work here, though, and getting to know the students. I don’t know many of the students yet, though I’m getting to know them. I feel I’m out of college but still in a college atmosphere."

What does she like to do with her time off? "Well, so far I haven’t had any days off. I’ve been out to the lake though and I’d like to do some swimming and horse-riding. I haven’t had much time to go to campus events or get involved in the community as yet—luckily I’ve always lived in a small town so I’m used to the atmosphere. At the moment I’m decorating my apartment and I’m spending a bit of time studying."

Although she has graduated from college, Nancy isn’t through with studying yet. At the end of October, she has her registration examinations for membership in the American Dietetic Association.

Dr. Vance has taught French at the beginner and advanced levels and has studied French moralist writers as part of her own work. She has written papers on Montaigne, Pascal, Vigny, Malraux, and Camus. Dr. Vance also translates English into French and French into English. She is currently working on "Gardens of Illusion" by F. Hamilton Hazelhurst. Swimming, sailing, and waterskiing are some of her favorite recreational pastimes.

Dr. Vance and her eleven-year-old daughter, Caroline, live at Thompson House, a three-minute walk from the Chambers Building. Dr. Vance enjoys her convenient three-minute walk from Thompson House to Chambers compared to her hour-and-a-half commuter trek to and from UNC-C last year. "Davidson is the best of two worlds," she says, because our community has a friendly atmosphere yet is close to the lively cultural center of Charlotte. Dr. Vance will return to UNC-C at the end of the 1981-1982 school year.

Though Monique Guizard and Christine Vance have different backgrounds and interests, they do have one thing in common: they are both getting a glimpse of a different setting. There is little doubt that Davidson College will provide a new perspective for both visiting professors.