Union Board Races

[continued from page 11]

...vor of social functions.

He would also like to see the Union and SGA work together in more ways, especially with alumni relations and big events like John Belk Day. The Y-Student Service Corps is another organization which Sherman wants the Union to work more closely with. Sherman would like to sponsor co-curricular theme weekends with these organizations.

The other candidate for Union co-curricular vice president, Elizabeth McMillan, is entering the race never having held a Union Board position. She feels that this is one of her strengths because she would be bringing a fresh perspective to the office.

She has been involved with the Union as a member of the Games Committee, worked with the Union Board, and last year as SGA Chancellor.

As co-curricular vice-president, she would seek optimum exposure for the Union and try to attract new participants for Union activities. Elizabeth would like to “get students together where they don’t normally see each other — i.e. dorms, eating houses, athletics — whether it be for social or co-curricular activities,” but she especially stresses the co-curricular side, believing that it can enhance college life and supplement academics in a “fun” way.

Juniors Steve Stine and Danny Waddill are running for vice-president for social activities. The Games, Pop Films, Concert, Dance, and Intimate Performances Committees all are under the auspices of the Union social vice-president.

Neither Steve nor Danny have chaired a Union Board Committee, but both have been extensively involved in Union activities. Steve was a member of the Dance Committee and was the organizer of this year’s wine-tasting sessions, which are indirectly Union functions. Danny has been a member of the Games Committee and was involved with a number of Union parties and other events.

Steve decided to become a candidate for two major reasons. First, he feels participation in Union social activities is unnecessarily low. He would like to see more campus-wide participation and a greater variety of interests represented. Secondly, and he said more importantly, he wants to see greater communication between Patterson Court and the Union concerning social functions, which he feels too often conflict with each other. “In a school of this limited size,” he said, “we have to be more responsible to others’ needs.” Although Steve has no specific plans, he would like to concentrate on these two areas to “just jump in and see what needs to be done.”

Danny also stressed the need for the PCC and the Union to develop better relations and for the two to coordinate social activities. In addition to concentrating on this relationship, Danny would also like to involve more students in the Union. He is especially interested in a Video Committee, which would be in charge of finding more ways to utilize the Union’s recently purchased video equipment.

By Lindsey Rader '84.

Wildcat Handbook

Lind and Rader oppose Frankhouser and Champlain

Sophomores Sherri Lind and Lindsey Rader will compete against juniors Mike Frankhouser and Laura Champlain in Tuesday’s election of the co-editors of the Wildcat Handbook.

Sherri and Lindsey will strive to make the handbook “a little more lively,” they said. According to Sherri, they plan to include more kinds of information than the Handbook has in the past.

Lindsey explained that the Handbook should include information which a hall counselor might not know off-hand, such as maps of Charlotte, surroundings, interstates, and perimeter housing. They also plan to include area restaurants and night spots, as well as the names of surrounding churches. Sherri said they plan to include the traditional list of people to know and the list of “college lingo.” She added that they plan to creatively alter the traditional row-column layout.

Lindsey said the Wildcat Handbook is important as a supplement to the hall counselor program.

Both she and Sherri have several years of high school newspaper and yearbook experience.

According to Mike, the Wildcat Handbook “is a fun way to be creative.” She and Laura feel they could benefit the freshmen and help to get them interested in college activities. Laura said, “The basic format now is good,” but that they would like to expand it. She said they are still “tossing around ideas.”

Mike, presently a third-floor Richardson hall counselor, feels that her experience with freshmen will be helpful. Laura said they both have “good leadership skills and are organized.”

Laura added that they are both interested in communications and journalism and that editing the handbook would be “good experience.”

“I think we can both handle it very well,” Laura added.

By Frances Palmer