THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Money for seekers

“A school doesn’t need a school committee. Or trustees. Or governors. Or lumber. Or approved textbooks. All a school needs
is a mind that seeks, and minds that receive.” — The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail

Obviously, this statement is not a realistic, nor even desirable, blueprint for Davidson College. We do need committees, and buildings,
and even (especially) investment firms. But the statement is profoundly important because it touches the nerve of what a college
is all about. We are, or we should be, a community of seekers. And this community’s essential activity is the
interchange of two people, the teacher and the student.

This is why faculty salaries are important. Money, on the administrative level, is the “energy” of the College. How much
money the College gives its faculty indicates what its commitment is to the quality of teaching. Last year, for the
first time since 1966, the percentage of College expenditures going to faculty salaries grew. The average salary increase of 13.1%
was almost up to the 13.3% rise in the Consumer Price Index. The faculty was not better compensated in real
terms, but at least they did not lose buying power as before.

Religion Professor David Kaylor said a year ago, “We hope the increase is the beginning of a process, not a
one-year desperation move—a process to get the College’s priorities in order.” The Trustees will demonstrate in three weeks whether they
are willing to commit themselves to this process.

In their cogent, thoughtful report on compensation, Professors Robert Manning and Lance Stell spoke of financial worries “sapping the spirit”
of the College community. This year we have seen the faculty’s anxiety reflected in its questions about financial repercussions of
the Educational Policy Committee’s original proposals, questions like, “What’s to be cut to fund new programs?” “How can we believe
new money will come in?” We have seen faculty members greet with disbelief President Spencer’s bright vision for the future
in his Convocation speech.

President Spencer and the Trustees will be facing some tough decisions on where to obtain additional funds if they vote
to grant substantial faculty salary increases. But not facing those decisions would mean not facing our function as an educational
community.

— Elizabeth Kise

Money from works, not faith

When asked why Davidson alumni tend to be nonchalant in their financial support of the College, Acting Director of Development
Julius Melton once replied, “They’re instilled with a feeling that God will provide for Davidson.” If the performance of our
endowment over the past decade is any indication, such complacency pervades much of the College’s administration as well as its
alumni. But we’re not so confident that Calvinist Davidson is among the predetermined elect of American colleges. It looks like
we’re going to have to depend more and more on things like the endowment—rather than divine grace—to keep the College
running.

Endowments are basically simple things: the idea is to draw annual income from a permanently invested portfolio, much the same
way you might live off the interest from a big savings account without ever touching the principal. The problem here
is that this analogy is too applicable: over the past decade the College's endowment has been yielding about the same
amount of income as a good savings account—around six percent annually. But the College’s endowment isn't a nest egg of
a few thousand dollars across the street at Piedmont Bank—it’s a $20 million-plus portfolio handled by professional investment firms.

The College refers to this sort of investment performance as indicative of “fiscal soundness” (The Davidson 1987: Program, Sept. 1978).
We think of it as fiscal nonchalance. The College points out that our endowment’s yield has been average compared to
colleges nationwide. We wonder when the College adopted a philosophy of mediocrity. What happened to the ideal of Davidson as
the Princeton of the South? The Princeton up north, by the way, has a standard of a 14 percent annual
yield on its endowment. Of this amount, seven percent is put towards Princeton's annual operating budget and the other seven
percent is reinvested so the endowment keeps pace with inflation.

Davidson not only offers no such standard but puts towards annual operations a smaller percentage of a smaller endowment. Davidson’s
principal endowment in 1960 was $9 million. In 1979, less principal and interest are providing for College operations than in
1971 and fallen to $36,000 (1967). We are not pointing out the College’s investment failures. We do want to fight
attitudes of complacency. Calvinist Davidson's salvation lies in works, not faith.

— John Siman

The Campus Forum

ARA OK

To the Editors:

Part of last week’s editorial dealt with the future of ARA/Slater at Davidson College. One of the alternatives put forward
by the editors was that students should be able to work with the new food service director, Mr. Goodman, to
make improvements in ARA service. This past Tuesday, Mr. Goodman met with the food service committee and representatives of SGA
for the first time. During his first week as director, he has made several positive additions to Richards and Bailey,
such as posted menus, hot chocolate dispensers, etc. I regret that some people attending the meeting felt inclined to greet
Mr. Goodman’s arrival with unfounded charges concerning Mr. Currie, Davidson’s Business...Manager, and the service provided by ARA. I believe that
attempts to force the administration to accept bids from other food/management companies at this time are unproductive. Student input and
cooperation with Mr. Goodman will be most beneficial.
Pat M. Woodward Jr. ’84
Food committee member

Chauvinist Pig
To the Editors:
According to Charles Douglas, the Fourteenth Amendment and the Civil Rights Act “grant women all the rights under the law
which men possess.” These laws, however, were designed specifically to eliminate race discrimination rather than sex discrimination and therefore have
not guaranteed women equal protection under the law. On these grounds, judges have decided against women suing for equal protection
(Kahn v. Shevin, 1974). In the spring, NOW will publish an article in The Davidsonian treating the legal questions of
ERA.

Douglas’ article departs from the concrete issues of ERA to an emotional discussion of women’s roles based on attitudes which
we find offensive. In the last third of the article, Douglas displays his true colors, using faulty reasoning to defend
his view that women have not been considered equal to men. If Douglas thinks that nothing “would be more honorable
and more self-satisfying than raising one’s children properly and watching them grow up to become good, moral, hard-working individuals” then
that is what he should be doing. Everyone should be allowed to decide what vocation is most “honorable” and “self-satisfying”
for her or himself. Freedom of choice should not be restricted. Douglas states, “women are leaving a job which no
man can handle properly.” Unfortunately, Douglas’ stereotypic view of sex roles prevents him from pursuing the very vocation he has
deemed the most honorable.
Davidson NOW Chapter members

An Alger Story
To the Editors:
Before delivering his sermon on the evils of women’s liberation and the specter of the Equal Rights Amendment, Charles Douglas
might have considered the words of William Rounseville Alger, a respected American writer of the mid-nineteenth century. Apparently, there were
dangerous radicals even in the world to which Mr. Douglas would like to return. In The Friendships of Women (1867),
Alger writes:

“The first duty of every human being is self-perfection. The ideal of marriage is the mutual perfection of both parties.
In its truest idea, marriage is an institution for the perfecting of the race, by the perfecting of individual men
and women through their co-operating intelligence and affection. To limit its end to the perfecting of the man alone, is
the highest stretch of masculine arrogance. Is it not a just inference, that, if woman is as completely a human
unit as man, she has an equal right with him to the use of every means of self-development in the
fulfillment of her destiny? The foremost claim to be made on behalf of women, therefore, is liberty—as untrammeled a choice
of occupation, as free a range of individuality and spiritual fruition as is granted to men. What else is it
save prejudice that applauds a woman dancing a ballet or performing an opera, but shrinks with disgust from one delivering
an oration, preaching a sermon, or casting a vote? Why is it less womanly to prescribe as a physician than
to tend as a nurse? If a woman have a calling to medicine, divinity, law, literature, art, instruction, trade or
honorable handicraft, it is hard to see any reason she should not have a fair chance of pursuing it.”

Perhaps what worries Mr. Douglas is not the “failure” of women in “traditional” roles, but the challenge of competing with
intelligent women.
Ann Lee Bressler
Ms. Bressler is the wife of History Professor Robin Barnes.

Clone Rusk
To the Editors:
The problem of what to do with the two new eating houses that will open next year has prompted us
to write this letter. We feel that one of the two new facilities should be an all-girls eating house. The
interest that has been shown toward the one such arrangement, Rusk, by the freshman girls makes it evident that another
similar house is necessary. Many girls now wait well into their sophomore year to get into Rusk (some sophomores are
still waiting) and with girls comprising one third of incoming classes it only makes sense to create a new all-girls
house. It would increase the eating and social activities for Davidson co-eds and would encourage Rusk to promote itself more
among the freshmen class. The new house could even work with Rusk in planning mixers and activities with other schools.
Four all-male eating facilities are available for Davidson students. Shouldn't there be at least two all-female?
Kathy Kooken ‘84
Katie Dagenhart ‘84
Rob Spaugh ‘84

WACKSON, Production
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SUMAN, Features Editor
MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, SCOTT POWERS, KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST, TIM WHALEN, Graphics
Assistants
DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE WALTER, Production Associates
BILL APPLETON, ED DAUGHTERY, JIM RUMLEY, Staff Artists
MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom Technicians
JEFF MAN, DAVID, Editor
SCOT MYERS, ANNE G, LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF, SALLY NEAL, DAVID COTTON BANKS, Custodian
