he neutron bomb

~

| what are the implications?

President Carter's decision to

- stockpile neutron bombs in the
United States leads to two important —

questions.
1) Will neutron bombs deployed

in Europe increase or decrease the —

likelihood of a Russian invasion of
Western Europe?

2) Will neutron bombs increase

or decrease the likelihood of a nucle-

ar holocaust?
If we agree that a lowered nucle-

ar threshold can logically make

an invasion of Western Europe less

likely, we must ask a new question.

Will the people responsible for high-

level decisions act responsibly or

will one thing lead to another until
Russia feels forced to invade and the
United States feels forced to use its

neutron bombs? A look at past

blunders of the Soviet Union in
Afghanistan and of the United States

in Vietnam reveal that the superpow-
ers are capable of grave miscalcula-
tions. If we can make mistakes else-
where, will we in Europe?

The development of neutron
weapons suggests the possibility of a
limited nuclear war. The Russian re-
sponse to the United States’ neutron
bombs may be to build comparable
weapons. If the gap between less de-
structive nuclear weapons and the

more destructive weapons becomes
great enough, a limited nuclear war

might be seen as a viable alternative

to an all-out nuclear exchange. Even

if this is the case, is it desirable?

Right now the nations of West-
ern Europe face a decision: either
support Reagan and eventually allow
the deployment of neutron weapons
in Western Europe or refuse to allow
neutron bombs on their soil.

The results of either decision
could lead to a nuclear holocaust.

The neutron bomb is a step toward

LOOKED AT FROM ALMOST ANY ANGLE, THE
decision of the Reagan administration to pro-

on the Asian and African con-
tinents, and on various surface and underwater ves-
sels roaming the seas.

establishing the worst of the Cold War

from The Economist

The geography of Europe very strongly favors the elimination

of Soviet forces over our own, any decision to lower
the fragile threshold separating conventional from

nuclear force must appear to most Europeans to
amount to a decision on our part that the defense of
Europe must inevitably involve its total nuclear de-

struction. The use of neutron bombs even though on-

ly about one-quarter as destructive, neutron for neu-

tron, as “conventional” nuclear weapons, could not
save Europe from the total destruction of a nuclear
war — most especially since there is no reason to as-
sume that the other side would go along with the hy-
pocrisy that professes to value the preservation of

property over humanity.

There are some who try to reconcile our European

allies to the lowering of the nuclear threshold with the
idea that the threat of nuclear escalation will serve as a

deterrent. The irony of the situation is that the neutron bomb decision

is that the neutron bomb decision

is likely to snatch defeat out of the jaws of victory. Having re-
versed the slowly-achieved momentum of the last 20

years, it will create political conditions that will be irresistible to any of the West Euro-

pean governments. Thus, while European denuclear-

ization is likely to be forced on the governments of
the NATO countries, it will not be the result of the de-
sired goal of a negotiated denuclearization from the
Urals to the Atlantic, but rather the result of a popu-
larly demanded West European denuclearization
westward from the Rhine.

In this way, far from increasing the pressures on
the Russians to negotiate, the effect of the neutron

bomb decision is likely to make it easier for the So-
viets to achieve the denuclearization of West Europe
without having to pay any quid pro quo in terms of

their own deployments of nuclear forces capable of
striking West Europe.

So do we find ourselves faced with the prospect

that American hawks and hard-liners, in the guise of
drifting, are sort out of control,
toward the ultimate holocaust of a nuclear war.