Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Handling of punishment

A. The accused shall be informed in writing of the charges against him.
B. The accused shall have adequate time to prepare his case.
C. The accused shall not be required to take any reviews or examinations between the time he is charged and
two days after the verdict is delivered.
D. The accused shall have the right to the advice and assistance of the Defense Advisor.
E. The accused shall be assumed innocent until proven guilty by clear and convincing evidence presented to the Dean or
the Honor Council.
F. The accused shall have the right to call witnesses, shall be allowed to question and cross-examine witnesses, and shall
have a fair opportunity to present his defense.
G. No person shall be placed in double jeopardy.
H. The accused shall not be required to testify against himself, but the Dean or the Honor Council may require
other students to testify against him.
I. The accused shall not suffer an excessive penalty.
J. No evidence obtained in violation of the right of privacy shall be admitted.
K. No pressure shall be placed on the accused to confess or incriminate himself.
L. The accused shall not be restrained in any manner from the full exercise of his rights.

The rights of the accused, the Honor Council, one of which chairs the screening committee. The present senior members of
the Honor Council are chairman Steve Carter, Sally Campbell, Jim Cheek, Rick Gaines, Patti Long, Debbie Metzgar, Howard Browne, Stokes
Peebles, and Joan Redding. Juniors on the Council are secretary True Davis, James Funsten, Carol Roche, Greg McFayden, Lucy Marshall,
and Danny Wadill. Sophomores on the Council are Katie Dagenhart, Terry Kurtts, and Bobby Silver.

The Chairman of the Honor Council runs the honor hearing and determines what evidence may or may not be admitted.
In the hearing, the student solicitor reads the charge, and the accused either admits or does not admit to it.
If the accused admits to the charge, he may make a statement asking for mitigation of the sanction, and he
may call witnesses. The student solicitor may question the guilty student’s witnesses. He then recommends an appropriate sanction and calls
witnesses of his own. The Council then decides which sanction to impose.

If the accused denies the charge, the solicitor directs the presentation of evidence to support the charge. Then the accused
answers to the evidence. The solicitor then directs rebuttal evidence, and the accused presents his rebuttal evidence. The accused then
makes his closing comments, and he is followed by the solicitor. The court then confers and decides if there was
a violation, and, if there was one, what sanctions to impose. The court informs the accused orally of its action.

The Secretary of the Honor Council does not vote. She prepares a digest of the proceedings in case the accused
requests a review, and also in order to record precedents. If the Honor Council finds that no violation has occurred,
the digest of the hearing is destroyed immediately. If the accused is found guilty and receives a sanction less severe
than suspension, the digest will be destroyed five years after the verdict.years after the final imposition of the sanction. If
the accused is found guilty and receives a sanction of definite or indefinite suspension, the digest will be destroyed ten
years after the final imposition of the sanction. Disciplinary records are available only to the student concerned, the dean of
students, and the College president. Sanctions for honor violations and Code of Responsibility violations range from an oral or written
warning through indefinite suspension. If the accused pleaded guilty and feels that the sanction imposed is unfair, or if the
accused pleaded not guilty and feels that he was unjustly found guilty of a violation or given an unfair sanction,
he may appeal to the Review Board.

The Review Board consists of five people in all. There are three faculty members of the board who serve staggered
three-year terms and are elected to the board by the faculty. There are two senior students who are elected by
the student body. Each year the Review Board elects one of the faculty members as chairman, and elects one of
the students as secretary. The current members of the Review Board are Chemistry Professor H. Alden Bryan, Religion Professor David
Kaylor, Physics Professor Robert Manning, senior Eric Crum, and senior Brent Hilleary. The Review Board can admit no new evidence,
but they may accept written or oral arguments by the accused student, the student solicitors, or the dean upon their
requests. The Review Board restricts its investigation to the questions of “whether there is clear and convincing evidence in the
record to support the finding,” and, “whether the trial was free of substantial error prejudicial to the person charged under
the prescribed procedure,” according to the Code of Disciplinary Procedure, section F part 5(b).

Three members of the Honor Board constitute a quorum for deciding on the appeal. If the accused pleaded guilty, the
review board may only act to uphold or ease the sanction imposed. If the accused pleaded not guilty, the review
board may “reverse and dismiss for insufficient evidence,” or it may call for a re-hearing if it finds error in
the hearing prejudicial to the accused, or it may ease the sanction imposed, or it may uphold the sanction imposed.
If the student has received a sanction of suspension upheld by the review board, his final avenue of appeal is
to the College president, Dr. Samuel Spencer. The president investigates only whether or not the sanction imposed is appropriate.

Last year, there were nine students involved in ten suspensions resulting from Honor Code and Code of Responsibility violations.

HISTORY OF PRESENT SYSTEM

The College’s present honor system dates back to 1 September, 1971, when the Trustees approved the Code of Disciplinary Procedure.
According to Registrar and former dean of students Richard Burts, J. Dickson Phillips, a member of the Trustee Committee on
Campus Affairs, was responsible for reviewing the document. Dr. Burts said the Code was composed largely by Mike Carroll '68.
According to dean of students Will Terry, the Code of Disciplinary Procedure was the first project undertaken by a Trustee
College Governance Committee formed in the late 1960s. Dean Terry said the Code was established to guarantee that all students
accused of Honor Code or Code of Responsibility violations would receive a fair hearing, and would have the right of
appeal.
