Campus Events

Thursday, May 7
8:15 am Student Piano Recital: Keith Hearle and Elizabeth Kiss, Hodson Hall
10 pm British Disco, 900 Room

Friday, May 8
10 am Dr. Sandor Kiss: "Communism and Fascism then and now: the Hungarian Revolution and other attempts at Freedom," Morrison Room
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: All That Jazz. $1.50 or season pass, Love
9:20 pm Student talent — open mike, 900 Room
10 pm-2 am Emanon Band Party with The Orphans, Emanon

Saturday, May 9
11 am MD Bike-a-thon
9:30 am-1:30 pm ATO Band Party: Cuba, formerly called the Idols, is back at Davidson with more exciting New Wave originals, ATO
11 pm Pop Film: Attack of the Killer Tomatoes. $1.50 or season pass, Love

Sunday, May 10
2 pm Chamber Music Ensembles. Davidson students will be performing, 900 Room
5 pm DCF Picnic: Fried chicken, fun, and fellowship. Tickets are $2.00 per person. Rides available behind Cunningham, Lake Campus
9 pm "How’s tricks?" Come play a little bridge and find out! 900 Room

Monday, May 11
10 am Rev. Harold McKeithen: "A Christian Viewpoint on Current U.S. Policy in El Salvador," Morrison Room
6 pm Senior Class Banquet, Gallery
7:30 pm Panel discussion on El Salvador, 900 Room
9 pm Vespers Concert. Carolina Brass Quintet: Professor William Lawing and Robert Jackson, trumpet; Robert Blalock, horn; Derl Sanderson, trombone; David Mills, tuba, DCPC

Tuesday, May 12
8:15 pm Voice and Piano Recital. Jeff Coleman and James Swisher, Hodson Hall

Wednesday, May 13
12:30 pm Open Luncheon, 900 Room
8 pm Fine Film: The Servant. $1.50 or season pass, Love
8:15 pm Chamber Music Concert, Hodson Hall

Thursday, May 14
8 pm Student Musical. Another hilarious student-written and directed spoof. All proceeds will go to Kenya, Love
10 pm Disco, 900 Room

Friday, May 15
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: Island of Dr. Moreau. $1.50 or season pass, Love

Saturday, May 16
7 pm Audio Visual Games. Take a study break and enter the AV tourney! $1.00 to enter, 900 Room
8:15 pm Piano Recital: Grace Chun, Hodson Hall
11 pm Pop Film: The Paper Chase. Free, Love

Sunday, May 17
8 pm Davidson Renaissance Ensemble, Lingle Chapel

Sunday, May 24
GRADUATION!

Grace Chun to perform in Hodson
Grace Chun, a young pianist preparing for her graduate recital from the North Carolina School of the Arts, will be performing Saturday, May 16 at 8:15 in Hodson Hall. Her program includes works by Bach, Schumann, Debussy, and Chopin. Miss Chun spent her freshman year at Davidson studying piano with Mrs. Adelaide McKelway of the Davidson Music Department. Since then she has studied under Joseph Kalichstein and Marian Hahn. Her performance is free.

McKeithen holds panel discussion on El Salvador
United States policy in El Salvador will be the topic of a speech and a panel discussion next Monday. The Rev. Harold McKeithen, minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Albemarle, will speak on "A Christian Viewpoint on Current U.S. Policy in El Salvador" in the Morrison Room at 10 am. McKeithen, a frequent lecturer around the state, has taken a strong moral stand against current U.S. intervention in the civil war-torn South American country. Philosophy Professor Lance Stell and UNCC Latin American expert Harry Chernotsky will join McKeithen for a 45-minute panel discussion at 7:30 pm in the 900 Room.900 Room. The discussion moderator will be Ed Williams, former editorial page editor for the Charlotte Observer. A half-hour open discussion will follow. The speech and discussion are sponsored by the Forum committee.

---

“My captors are fighting for a noble cause... I have decided to join the Banana Brigade.” These are the words of “Bonzia,” as translated from Apish in a tape delivered to his former owner, C. Shaw Smith. “Bonzia” also made severely derogatory comments about Smith, who claims to be organizing a counter-terrorist squad in order to “free” his ape.

The Back Page

Ex-political prisoner, editor to speak on freedom Friday

Dr. Sandor Kiss, a foreign service officer at The Voice of America, will give a speech entitled “Communism and Fascism Then and Now: The Story of the Hungarian Revolution and Other Attempts at Freedom” this Friday at 10 am in the Morrison Room. As a legislator, activist, and political prisoner, Dr. Kiss has faced many threatening situations for his beliefs. He was imprisoned and sentenced to death by the Nazis during World War II for his activities as president of the Hungarian student resistance movement. Elected to Parliament following the war, he was again imprisoned—this time for three years—following the communist coup d’etat.

Dr. Kiss rose again to leadership during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. The revolution was crushed, and he and his family were forced to flee their country. After serving as a key witness in United Nations and U.S. Senate hearings about the revolution, Dr. Kiss settled in this country. Since then he has served as an editor of East Europe magazine and now broadcasts from Washington, D.C. to Hungary with the Voice of America radio.

Summer fun alternatives

A crowded beach isn’t the only option for summer fun. Here is a sample of some of the beautiful—and more peaceful—places you can find when you head west of Davidson.

Mountain Brook Cottages—This peaceful mountain retreat encompasses 135 acres of brooks, trails, and wildlife. Within 25 minutes you can ride horses, mine rubies and sapphires, visit the Cherokees, or shoot the rapids. Cottages are completely furnished with everything from fireplaces to coffeepots. Rates: One-bedroom cottage $35/night, $180/week; Two-bedroom cottage $40/night, $200/week; larger houses $45/night, $250/week. Located three hours from Davidson on US 441 South in Sylva, N.C. (704-586-4329).

Nantahala Outdoor Center—The Center’s specialty is 3-5 day canoeing and kayaking clinics led by highly experienced paddlers and world competitors. There is also hiking, horseback riding, wildflower studies, and a competitive outdoorsman Triathlon. Group rates are available year-round. NOC is located on Star Route (Box 68) Bryson City.

Blue Ridge Parkway—Winding through over 400 miles of North Carolina and Virginia mountains, the Parkway has been called one of the Natural Wonders of the Western world. Forget the world and its problems—the peaceful seclusion carries you much further than your odometer indicates! Landmarks along the way include Craggy Gardens, Crabtree Meadows, Mt. Mitchell (at 6684 feet the highest peak east of the Mississippi), and Linville Falls. The Parkway offers camping, picnicking, and hiking in an uncommercialized setting. The closest route to the Parkway is north on I-77 to Statesville, then west on I-40.