Letters Policy

The Davidsonian welcomes letters from our readers. We try to print all letters that are of general interest, but we adhere to these four guidelines:

1. We require that letters be in our hands by Tuesday 7 PM.
2. We require that letters be neatly typed.
3. We require that letters be signed and include the author’s phone number and address. If you have a compelling reason for us to withhold your name, explain your situation to the editor, John Siman.
4. We reserve the right not to print letters that (a) function as advertisements; (b) contain innuendo, off-color slurs, or inside jokes; (c) represent a viewpoint very similar to that expressed in many other letters printed on the same topic. We also reserve the right to condense very long letters.

The Davidsonian does not in any way endorse the opinions expressed in the letters that we print.

Women’s House

To the Editor:

It is my opinion that Hooper “Lex” Alexander’s commentary upon the possible establishment of a second all-women eating house cannot go unanswered. He is correct in asserting that the motives of Jane Alexanian, Kathy Kooken, and me for establishing this house should be scrutinized carefully. The Council on Campus and Religious Life will do this when they decide to whom the two empty Patterson Court houses should go. I resent, however, his implication that we have only one motive (social advantages). Yes, Hooper; increased social benefits are one advantage to an all-women eating house. You question, however, our motive of providing a “forum that would enable co-eds to discuss issues relevant to women today” because the Women’s Center was established to do this very thing. Their success, however, has been limited. I applaud the founders of the Women’s Center for their intentions and for their efforts, but I feel that the poor attendance at many Women’s Center functions proves that their forum has not been successful. Perhaps they have not addressed the issues in which most Davidson women are interested. Perhaps the manner in which they have presented these issues is inconsistent with the Davidson woman’s schedule or simply with the way in which she likes to express herself. A second all-women eating house could provide an adequate forum for discussing women’s issues by simply bringing girls together twice each day for at least a half of an hour each time. It is my feeling, and the feeling of many other women on campus, that we would rather discuss those issues significant to us spontaneously over lunch or dinner than take several hours each week out of our busy schedules to go to an organized discussion at the Women’s Center about which we may or may not be concerned. I feel that the proposal that Kathy, Jane, and I have submitted provides a more practical means for accomplishing the goal held by the Women’s Center.

I defend Kathy Kooken’s assertion that “women feel freer to discuss their concerns in an all-women setting” against Hooper’s criticism. The value of discussing such issues as marriage, family, and career in an all-women setting lies in the increased awareness of the female point of view on such issues. I disagree strongly that guts are more necessary than setting to produce significant conclusions. If Davidson women lacked the guts to stand up for their own opinions in front of males, they would not have chosen to attend Davidson College! They clearly possess the courage and the ability to analyze such issues. What they lack is a satisfactory forum. Why is it that Davidson males have...not felt the need to open a Men’s Center? I believe that it is because there are six fraternities that provide many men with a forum to discuss a male point of view. (There are many opportunities for those Davidson males not choosing a fraternity to discuss these issues in an all-men setting because there are so many more men than women.) No, Hooper, Jane, Kathy, and I do not want a Patterson Court house simply to “play sorority.” That is absurd. What we wish to provide to 34 percent of the student body is another alternative to co-ed eating. We wish to provide to those 45 girls on the waiting list at Rusk, to those 59 freshmen who signed a petition expressing their interest in all-female eating, and to those women eating independently unhappily the opportunity for a lot of fun, for unity with their fellow females, the chance to eat “female food,” and a place to discuss comfortably and spontaneously those issues that concern them.

Anne B. Rollins '84

When is a felony not a felony? The Davidson experience

To The Editor:

“I also can’t believe the lack of support I received from anyone who had anything officially to do with the Honor Code.” — John Siman

Mr. Siman, in your editorial last week why were you so surprised at the Davidson Administration’s failure to take action, legal or otherwise, against an explicit Honor Code violation and felony? Mr. Siman, you are a senior and the editor of the Davidsonian; surely you are not so blind as to miss what I have come to see so clearly in my four years at Davidson — The Honor System at Davidson is and always has been selectively permeable. This case is merely an example of the Administration’s “mysterious” enforcement of the Honor System. Why can’t the Davidsonian print the name of this student? You have provided the Administration with evidence that substantiates the guilt of this student (whom you, I, and many others know). I am calling for this student’s name for no other reason than to point out that this student is being protected by the Administration’s double standard of Honor System enforcement. I am sure that the Administration felt this course of action was in the best interest of the College. Perhaps this year’s Phonathon results will be better than ever.

Dana J. Bolton '82

Christmas Fund

To the Editor:

This year’s Christmas Gift Fund will be given to the St. Croix Hospital in Leogane, Haiti, for public health. We selected this project for two reasons. First of all, the need is desperate. Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Though they have a population of 5 million in an area the size of Maryland, two-thirds of their land is non-arable. Their weak economy has been devastated by hurricanes in the past several years. Health problems due to poor nutrition and bad sanitation are rampant. These people need our help. Secondly, we chose Haiti because we have a reliable conduit for our gift. Through the Presbyterian Medical Benevolence Foundation, we can channel the funds directly to the St. Croix Hospital. This hospital for the poor is jointly operated by the Episcopal and Presbyterian Churches. Our money will go where it is most needed.

Our campaign goal is $10,000. If each student, faculty, and staff person will give $10, we will easily achieve this mark. Let us begin our Christmas celebration with a gift that will bring joy to the people of Haiti and to the One whose birth we celebrate.

Charlie Summers
College Chaplain

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 11 December 1981