10—The Davidsonian—April 3, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

Spring is a time of wonder and merriment at Davidson as the whole campus awakens from its winter slumber and
embarks on a trip toward what is hoped to be real world fun. Such fun can involve shooting incidents, a
philosophy class for the entire proletariat, a "bring your own album" band party, a combination of war games and the
demolition derby, pure insanity in the library, and some more good party ideas from the Ruskies. In hopes of maintaining
this high level of social excitement, Brick Brothers and the Doughboys offer you Davidson’s social calendar for next week:

MONDAY — The brothers of Kappa Alpha, in order to avert fiasco, have booked a new band called "Turley and
the Yieldings" which will almost certainly show up. Moreover, to avoid the embarrassment of having to carry the risers back
and forth to the SPE House, the KAs have decided to have their pledges carry the risers for them. There
are 10 risers so the KAs will be able to put 10 pledges on each riser and still have 34
pledges left to help Gepfert study. The other option would be to hold the party under the SAE House where
the risers are presently being kept. That was Jorge’s idea. Finally, Sherman Allen has devised a cute contingency plan in
which he will bring a rubber band to the party and produce it in case somebody wants to know if
the "band" is there.

TUESDAY — Rusk will have a "Noon Madness" party which will involve beer, tunes, and Elizabeth Medlin, who has not
had a rear end alignment since Christmas. The party will feature the women’s field hockey team mud wrestling in the
SAEs’ backyard with the winner getting a free trip to every "all-you-can-eat" restaurant in Mecklenburg County. The highlight of the
afternoon will be when these adventurous young gals attempt to squeeze all of this year’s and last year’s cheerleaders into
four Allied moving vans. Good luck!

WEDNESDAY — Carl Cohen has invited his philosophy 112 class, "Communism, Fascism, and Pass-Fail," over to his room for COFFEE
AND QUAALUDES. Students are requested to sit near the front of the room so that they can more clearly observe
the triple conjunction of planets which will take place when Lance Stell, John Davis, and Nicholas "Who are you" Petrou
try and assemble an understandable thought. Roll will be taken but it will not be what it really is. Roll
is a categorical contradiction.

THURSDAY — The SAEs will have Rundown III in Dr. Spencer’s front yard. Guests are asked to bring beer and
dead dogs. Entertainment will be provided by Brad McCall who will drive the new "hell car," Eddie Biedenbach’s confiscated Rolls
Royce, through the house and out the chimney. The SAEs have requested that police protection be afforded them against the
onslaught of still muddy freshman girls. They also request that each pledge limit himself to only 4 instances of throwing
up. Grenades will be provided by the Davidson ROTC under the able direction of James "My Lai" Jones. At the
end of the party, football critic Pat Sheridan will ingest all dead dogs brought by the guests.

FRIDAY — The 900 Room will provide three 4" portable TV sets so that students will be able to watch
the College Bowl finals in which Davidson lost to Maryland. Replays will show that Buck Williams got every toss-up question
and that Albert King made all his bonuses. Julie Gibert said after the match that Coach Hansford Epes wouldn’t let
her "shine." The 900 Room will provide hot dogs and beer for the crowd with Jonathan "Bear" Keith eating 2
hot dogs for every one sold and then sumo wrestling himself at halftime. Do you think Bear can beat himself?

SATURDAY & SUNDAY — In keeping with Davidson tradition, nothing has been planned for the weekend although there is always
the possibility of some action around the telephone in the library. Also, students who so desire may take MCATS over
again, just for fun. Well, you all have fun next week and don’t ask Sam Outten if he had a
playpen installed on the hood of Rob Moore’s car.

Spring Get Away

A quiet Spring vacation in the Smokies with no interruptions except those you want! Spend an intimate time by the
fireside in your..., own cottage. Mountain Brook Cottages US 441 | South Sylva, NC $35 for four people $30 for
two people

Speakers assumed democracy is good
Ethics Institute avoided ethics
By JOHN RICHARDS
Staff Writer

Thinkers from around the nation recently gathered at Davidson to participate in a discussion of “Contemporary Challenges to Democracy.” Dean
of the Center for Special Studies Frank Bliss said, “We believe that concern with ethics and the raising of questions
is no longer a concern of only the philosophy department. We want to stimulate questions on ethics and values.” The
two-week series of lectures presented was known as the first Ethics Institute. The Institute took advantage of interest generated by
Professor Cohen's class Communism, Fascism and Democracy, in which over one quarter of the student body is enrolled.

One of the chief problems with the Institute was its avoidance of ethics. This was in part due to the
subject: “Challenges to Democracy.” Democracy was defined, during the Institute, as “decisions for the community made by the community.” The
lecturers assumed that democracy is the most obvious ethical system of government, and hence that contemporary criticism of democracy arises
only from the system’s failures to live up to its potential. Only Philosophy Professor Stell challenged democracy with an entirely
different political system.

The greatest ethical challenges that democracy faces are ideological in nature. Democracy can be either ethical or unethical, depending on
the system of values used to judge the matter. The discussion of ethical or ideological systems remained largely unexplored. The
speakers assumed a common ethic based on the concept of individual rights, which is a normal ploy in western political
philosophy. Hobbes, Rousseau, and the fathers of this country did the same. They were all concerned with the question of
freedom, which they defined as how an individual can keep his rights within a social and political system.

Fritjof Bergmann’s lecture, “The Two Faces of Freedom: Part One,” proposed an idea of freedom different from that assumed by
most speakers at the Institute. Freedom, Bergmann said, has generally been associated with space or the absence of restrictions, especially
here in America (no doubt a concept developed in days when there was much space left to fill). Freedom is
non-interference, both physical and mental. But what, Bergmann asked, if this metaphor of freedom-as-elbowroom were changed to the idea that
freedom is one’s ability to become fulfilled, to develop as a person? Then, being left alone would not necessarily result
in freedom. In the same manner, democracy doesn’t mean ethical goodness. The citizen in a democratic society may not be
oppressed, but neither is he actively supported. Is he, then, free? Clearly, democracy can be fully accomplished politically in spite
of an economic system which advocates neocolonialism and exploitation, and a social system which pursues supremacist militaristic policy. Ethical challenges
to democracy must look to the ideology of ethics—not democracy—for its main challenge.

Speakers like Dr. William Bennett of the National Humanities Center reflected on democracy during the Institute. (David McCurry)

Systems, be they political, economic, or social, are not ethical or unethical. It is up to the men who run
the system to be ethical or not. As E.F. Schumacher, author of Small is Beautiful, suggests, systems are but tools
for the use of men. The Institute was a start. But in the future, there is a basic need for
greater continuity in discussing ethics. This could be accomplished, perhaps, by core readings. Greater enthusiasm and community participation, especially in
dialogue between sessions, would add a sense of ongoing effort. Students may take the Institute for credit by attending three
years in a row and writing papers on questions raised. Interested students should contact English Professor Frank Bliss for further
details.

BARGER
Post Office Box 30. 384 North Main St. Mooresville, NC 28115

Another outstanding job by CONSTRUCTION

“People are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn't be. We're just regular people, and we try
to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.” Connie Brown, Receptionist

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841 MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD
