world have representatives at Davidson

nude beaches.

The French nation is famous for its chateaux of the Loire Valley as well as its world-renowned masters of the culinary arts. Now Davidson has been bestowed with the privilege of experiencing these gastronomical delights with the help of Hugh and Bettie Casey of La Toque Blanche.

Casey said, "My wife was a good cook to begin with. Our children gave her a lot of practice." We met a French couple in Charlotte twenty years ago and had our first French-type meal. After that introduction, the Caseys began cooking French food and started visiting France periodically. One of their friends owns a restaurant outside of Paris. This French chef has taught them much about French foods and wines. Mrs. Casey has taught French cooking classes and has shown off her cooking on television.

The Caseys moved to Davidson two and a half years ago after their fifth child had grown up and left home. Mr. Casey said, "We were looking for a college town on the water near a courthouse." Davidson was perfect, except Mr. Casey, who is an attorney in Charlotte, cannot ride his bike to work as he did for a number of years. Since they’ve been in Davidson, he has only made the long trek into Charlotte three times by bicycle.

La Toque Blanche / The Chef’s Cap stands where the old town jail and courthouse once stood. About twenty-nine years ago, a restaurant took the jail’s place. When the restaurant closed down three years ago, Mrs. Casey went to the restaurant’s going-out-of-business auction intending to buy some kitchenwares. Within the week, she and Mr. Casey decided to seek an unfulfilled dream, La Toque Blanche. "Originally," said Mrs. Casey, "we intended to name our restaurant Café de la Gare (Train Station Café), because the Depot is just across the street." But, she said with a grin on her face, "since no passenger trains stop at the Depot, we decided against that name." Asked the origin of the name La Toque Blanche, they replied, "It simply fit," as does the chef’s cap that Mrs. Casey wears. "Since the chef’s cap is in the shape of a mushroom, it gives us a motif to work with," said Mrs. Casey.

La Toque Blanche has served guests from Russia, China, Brazil, Denmark, and France as well as lots of folks from Davidson and the eastern United States. The key to her cuisine, said Mrs. Casey, is cooking in small quantities: "I don’t cook on a mass scale, because the quality of the food would suffer. I cook right at the moment of the order instead of in advance." Furthermore, Mr. Casey carefully selects the wines to go with the certain foods served. "There is a beautiful marriage between the food and wine," Mrs. Casey said. At a typical restaurant, said Mrs. Casey, a wine list is handed to the customer and little or no aid is given in wine selection. La Toque Blanche serves three meticulously chosen wines with the Saturday evening dinner.

La Toque Blanche serves lunch on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays. Tuesday is international day with the menu being characteristic of a particular nation. On Wednesdays, a "rolled soufflé" is served, and Thursday is pasta day. (The average price for lunch is $2.50.) Helping Mrs. Casey with lunch is Holly Gnagey, a 1979 Davidson graduate. "She makes the bread and the sauces," said Mrs. Casey, and she is integral to the operation.

Saturday evening dinner at La Toque Blanche is "the main event." In the traditional French manner, a five-course repas consisting of hors d'oeuvres, beef and vegetables, salad, cheese, and dessert is served. Each course is brought to the table separately so that the customer can concentrate on and savor each food individually. The dinner lasts from 7:30 pm to 10:30 pm and is an excellent way to entertain several friends on a special occasion. It costs $28.50. Asked if their enterprise has been successful, Mrs. Casey replied, "The rewards are more for the spirit than for the purse." For their patrons, the rewards are gastronomical in nature.

By Newton Allen ’82.

"Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years"

131 N. Main Street, Davidson, N.C.
(704) 892-0208

Mon. - Sat. 9-6; Temporarily Closed on Sun.
Senior Citizen Discount - 10%

Pre-medical students

Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance.

Investigate this financial alternative.

Contact:

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN.
YOU NAME IT — WE’LL STYLE IT.

MAIN STREET

photo by Elizabeth Elkin ‘85.