6—The Davidsonian—March 13, 1981

Despite good conference play, tourney wins still elude Cats

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The 1980-81 basketball season is history, and, looking back, one sees a roller coaster ride ranging from Davidson blowing out
Marshall, Marshall blowing out Davidson, and the dismissal of Head Coach Eddie Biedenbach. More than anything it was a season
of emotion. There was the euphoria of riding high on top of the Southern Conference for most of the season—a
true Cinderella team—and then the despair of losing three straight games and a coach.

At mid-February, the Wildcats were in the midst of the key road trip of the season. The team had split
with UT-C and VMI, and the loss to the Mocs had dropped them from first place. Then they traveled to
Greenville, S.C., to do battle with Furman, a team whose talent defied its 6-6 record. The team, and most particularly
Tommy McConnell, were at their best. On defense, an incredibly tough 3-2 game held the Paladins at bay, and on
offense the team worked methodically for high percentage shots. The ’Cats worked to a six-point lead, but several turnovers allowed
Furman to battle back and take an 18-16 lead. At that point Furman Coach Eddie Holbrook received a technical foul,
and Todd Haynes converted the shots to give Davidson a 19-18 lead. The Paladins kept coming, though, and with seconds
left in the half they worked for the last shot with a 32-31 lead. They missed the attempt, and John
Gullickson threw up a Hail Mary shot at the buzzer that touched only net for a 34-32 halftime lead.

Neither team really wanted to take charge in the second half. As the game wound down to the last minute,
the ’Cats held a 71-68 lead, but Furman freshman George Singleton canned a three-point shot to knot the game. Davidson
missed what could have been the winning shot and left Furman with fifteen seconds to win the game. Davidson’s defense,
which had been strong throughout the game, had to suck it in and play hard. John Carroll led the charge
as he caused a jump ball with one tick left on the clock. That meant overtime.

Davidson couldn’t miss in overtime, and the Paladins often did. Down by six points, Furman started shooting three-pointers, and the
Cats cleared the boards and shot to build the lead. The hosts then tried stopping the clock by fouling, but
that didn’t help. Davidson wasn’t missing from the line either. By the time it was over, Davidson had romped over
the Paladins 94-79.

Then Davidson returned to the friendly confines of Johnston Gym for the last home regular season game and Todd Haynes
Night. The Citadel was the victim, but nearly victimized the Cats. The machine-like Bulldog offense slowed the game down, and
Davidson didn’t start to break it open until they were able to fast break midway through the second half. Davidson
built a twelve-point lead, but Biedenbach decided to slow down his team’s pace. The game became a thriller that ended
in a Davidson 63-61 win.

That win set the Wildcats on a collision course with Appalachian State that came to a head on February 21.
The stakes were the Southern Conference regular season crown. Davidson could claim it outright with a win. Appalachian could claim
the crown with a win over Davidson and a win the following Monday at Western Carolina. Nineteen minutes and fifty-nine
seconds of the first half belonged to Appalachian.to Davidson. The defense was exceptional, the offense ran like clockwork, and Haynes
couldn’t miss. The Apps got in foul trouble early, and, except for John Fitch, couldn’t hit. In the cold mountain
air, his was the hot hand that kept the Mountaineers from falling beyond a 15-point deficit, and his was the
one second of the half that wasn’t Davidson’s: With one second left, Fitch launched a 55-foot bomb that homed in
on twine, brought the home folks to their feet, cut the lead to 41-33, and somehow restored momentum to the
Apps. And that shot became one of the key elements which cost Davidson the Conference championship.

Halftime didn’t help to cool Fitch off. Although Kenny Wilson put in a stellar performance with appearances all over the
court on offense and defense (12 points, 6 rebounds, 2 steals), the Mountaineers had pulled within four at the halfway
point. With six minutes left, Davidson was about to make a run and put the game away when a second
key play came along. Todd Haynes got a technical foul for sticking his hand in the net. The Apps took
full advantage of that, and with 4:10 left they tied the game at 71-71. The Wildcats got off a fast
break, Haynes decided to take it in himself, but missed a slam dunk. Forty seconds later, the Apps went ahead
73-71, and the home crowd advantage really took effect. Both teams spread out to take good shots, and with 51
seconds left ASU led 76-75. Kenny Wilson was fouled with nine seconds left. He went to the line under a
lot of pressure, and despite an ASU timeout to make him think about it, he nailed both shots for a
77-76 lead. The Apps got the ball upcourt in no time at all, and Fitch put the game-winning shot over
Gullickson.

The next game was with UNCC, in what is fast becoming a true rivalry. The game meant nothing to the
Wildcats, though, and a lot to the Forty-niners. Again, Davidson dominated the first half, building a 15-point lead that was
sliced to nine by halftime. With 26 seconds left in the game, Davidson held a five-point lead and looked sure
to win. But then came another coaching error. Although John Carroll had been the court presence of the evening, Biedenbach
subbed in Tommy McConnell. McConnell, cold off the bench, threw a pass away. UNCC then came up with a steal
and a three-point play to tie the game. Davidson missed a last-gasp shot, and the game went to overtime. The
nonexistent defense that had been evident by both teams during regulation continued into overtime, and Davidson jumped out to a
six-point lead. The Forty-niners chipped away at that, though, and again the Cats missed a last-second shot as the second
overtime period rolled around. It’s hard to say just what happened, but UNCC won that five-minute segment of basketball by
a bucket, and claimed the Hornet’s Nest with a 91-89 victory.

The team was in a rut, and along came Marshall in the first round of the Southern Conference tourney. The
mood at Davidson was optimistic, and for good reason. After all, the Cats had destroyed the Herd on its last
two trips to Johnston Gym. Back in Charleston, W. Va., Marshall Coach Bob Yaffelate was telling reporters that Johnston Gym
was the last place on earth he wanted to play. But the Herd came prepared to a gym devoid of
a pep band and screaming students. Although the score didn’t reflect it, until the second half Davidson was never really
in the game. The players’ concentration was elsewhere, and the world found out why the next morning. Right after the
90-77 loss to Marshall, Athletic Director Gene Bingham told Coach Eddie Biedenbach to be in his office the next morning.
On a quiet Sunday morning, Biedenbach was fired.

Although the 13-14 record compiled by the 1980-81 basketball team was the best performance by a Davidson basketball team since
1974-75, it was rather anti-climactic. Of course, Todd Haynes was selected to the All-Southern Conference team and John Gullickson was
just a few shots short of qualifying as the leading free throw shooter in the nation. But this year’s team
had enough talent to be 18-11 and holding a berth in the NCAA playoffs. For that reason, fans will walk
away with a bitter taste, but great hopes for next year.
