Be: Cale Bon aes two

* Berry were the most scored in one match by any team at the tournament.

College Bowl Coach, German Professor Hansford Epes, said he was very impressed with this team in last week’s tournament. He said captain, junior Brad Mullis, and team members junior Marvin Overby, junior Gordon Turbull, and sophomore John Eglin, may have qualified for the National Tournament to be held this spring with their two wins.

If the organization does not give Davidson an invitation to the National Tournament, in December it will send the team to a Radio Tournament in California, where Davidson will meet the University of California, according to Dr. Epes.

Belk First Center West won the pizza and beer dinner with 75% participation. Senior Susan Roberts won the student random drawing for lunch for two at the Chef’s Cap. Dr. Kimmel won the faculty random drawing for dinner for two at the Meeting Place, and Paul Barker won the administration and staff random drawing for dinner for two at the Little Kitchen.

There were 81 first-time donors. Three hundred twenty-nine people attempted to donate, but 30 were not accepted for various reasons, such as medication, sickness, and lack of iron.

The annual Sacred Music Convocation will be held here and will feature Peter Planyavsky from Vienna and will include a special performance of Olivier Messiaen’s “Quartet for the End of Time.” Planyavsky will speak on Austrian organ music, perform a recital, and conduct a master class on organ improvisation. Other events include a talk by Vladimir M. Poses and a choral performance.

Students may buy tickets to the 30 November basketball game against NC State from November 11-20. The hours for ticket pick-up are 9 am to noon and from 2 pm to 4:30 pm. Students may also pick up tickets on November 30 until 3 pm.

The College has received a $300,000 grant for faculty support. The grant is from the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago to be used to endow professorships to assist in bringing new and promising faculty members to the institution. Davidson is one of 16 liberal arts colleges receiving a grant. Vice President for Development Jack Powers said, “We’re particularly pleased with the recognition this gives Davidson, and at the importance this foundation is giving to privately supported undergraduate education.”

WDAV will hold its third annual fundraising radiothon, Celebration ’81, from 30 November to 6 December. The station hopes to raise $50,000. Volunteers will man telephones while special events such as live performances, interviews with special guests, and the annual “Top 40 countdown” of listeners’ favorite classical works are broadcast.

Fall convocation will be held this Saturday at 10:30 am in Love Auditorium. Three honorary degrees and the Thomas Jefferson award for teaching will be presented.

The Vice President for Academic Affairs’ Office will distribute ICES faculty evaluation forms to students next week. The College started using the ICES system for compiling student evaluations of faculty last year.

DIALOG, a computer search service owned by Lockheed Corporation, is now available to faculty, staff, and students at the Library. Indices and abstracts in the physical and social sciences as well as the humanities are available for search. The service will be free for the next couple of months, Library Director Jean Park said.

James Moore Production Manager
Lisa Buckley Head Compositor
Kathy Gingrich Compositor
John Lusk Conpositor
Bill Appleton Art Editor
Kimley Staff Artist
Todd Wofford Staff Artist