Haute Couture -
The BSC sponsors Fall Fashion Show

“Autumn glow is reflected in deep purple, rose and gold sunset: in the warmth of a new friendship and very
specially in the color, textures and styles of autumn costumes.”

Thus did Ms. Pamela Stephenson introduce the Black Student Coalition’s first annual Fall Fashion Show held on Sunday in the
900 Room. The BSC’s Special Events Committee organized the show in conjunction with the Student Union. Juniors P.J. Whitlock and
Suzanne Hutchings were in charge. Ms. Pamela Stephenson, a part-time receptionist at Davidson who has previous experience at other fashion
shows, was the commentator for the show. Clothes were provided by Casual Corner, Chess King, and Richman.

Twelve Davidson students made their first attempt at modeling. Warm lighting, soft music, and candlelit tables, reminiscent of beautiful cold
autumn days spent with a loved one, contributed to the professional presentation of the show.

The twelve students, who themselves chose the clothes they modeled, brought to Davidson's often drab faded blue jeans and khakis
environment a touch of class and interesting variety. Styles ranged from sports, casual, and evening wear to what the organizers
called the “vogue” presenting high fashions. Sophomore Leon Mason seemed to score a touchdown far from the football field as
he drew approval from the audience for his stage antics and his choice in clothes. There was wide applause for
all the models, especially some of the girls who looked like pin-ups-come-alive from a fashion magazine. One would never have
believed that hidden among Davidson’s alligators existed such chic.

P.J. Whitlock said the BSC got the idea from other schools who have held fashion shows. She said the show
“would enlighten Davidson students and make them aware of the current different styles.” She hoped the show would help bring
variety to the school.

The Fashion Show was the Special Events Committee’s first event for the year. Future plans include holding a Fund Raising
Pizza Sale.

By Mahmoud Sandal '84

New in Sociology —

Janet Grigsby and Kathleen Reichs settle into Davidson

Janet Grigsby and Kathleen Reichs, new professors in the Sociology Department, are finding Davidson College to be a satisfying place
to teach.

“I like the contact with the students,” said Dr. Grigsby. “I attended a small, liberal arts college [Oberlin]...and I have
a great appreciation for the type of education they offer.” Dr. Reichs expressed similar sentiment saying “The students are wonderful...
the best group from the colleges I’ve taught at.”

After graduating from Oberlin College in Ohio, Dr. Grigsby went on to do graduate work at the University of Chicago,
where she received her Ph.D. She has found Davidson students to be highly motivated and interested in doing well. Comparing
Davidson to the other colleges where she has taught, she said, “It’s more conservative.” This term she is teaching Introductory
Cultural Anthropology and Introduction to Human Origins. She mentioned that she would augment classroom instruction with laboratory exercises but Davidson
has yet to obtain the lab facilities that would make this possible. In addition to teaching, Dr. Reichs serves as
a consultant for the Charlotte-Mecklenburg police Crime Lab and Medical Examiner’s Office.

Both Dr. Grigsby and Dr. Reichs expressed confidence in the Davidson Honor Code. They say they have enjoyed teaching at
Davidson thus far and are pleased that their expectations of the college have been confirmed. Dr. Grigsby, however, added that
it is “not as bad as I expected it to be here.”

By Rod Holman '85

The Davidsonian, Friday 6 November 1981
