Citadel romps

Cadets outman Wildcat footballers

by Steve Soud ‘84

“Some days you play poorly and beat yourself. Other days you play well and beat the other guys. Then, about once or twice a season, come the days when you play well and still wind up on the short end of the stick. Such was last Saturday, when the football team lost to the Citadel, 23 — 3.

“Their personnel is better than ours,” admitted Head Coach Ed Farrell. “Both teams were psychologically prepared, but that’s when better talent will win the game.”

If a finger could be pointed at one particular culprit, it would be the ever-present, ever-popular turnover. The Cats turned the ball over five times (three interceptions, two fumbles), and the Bulldogs converted one into a field goal and another into a touchdown. Sound familiar? Try the losses to Newberry and Bucknell, where turnovers proved very costly. This game, however, the turnovers weren’t so much in the team beating itself as it was solid defensive play by the Citadel.

Things started off well for the Cats. On their first drive, they went 43 yards on ten plays, and Wayne Paymer nailed the 22-yard field goal attempt. From that point on, it was all elementary.

The Citadel’s second possession was an overwhelming success as they showcased star running back Danny Miller. Miller gained 52 yards of the 63-yard drive that led to a Bulldog touchdown en route to his 155-yard afternoon. The point after attempt was wide right, and the Citadel led, 6 — 3.

The Bulldogs continued to dominate the game’s tempo as they forced a Davidson punt, and Miller was again the key when the offense took over. This time he dashed 45 yards into the end zone, and after a successful Citadel PAT, the Dogs led, 13 — 3.

Then the turnovers came into account. Although Bill Price picked off a Bulldog pass, his play was neutralized when the offense fumbled the ball away on the Wildcat 32. The defense was staunch, holding the Dogs to a scant twelve yards in seven plays, but they were in field goal range and capitalized to take a 16 — 3 lead.

Davidson’s next shot at offense had gone only two yards when a Brian Whitmire pass was picked off in Citadel territory. Again, Wildcat play was not sloppy, as the receiver was open and the pass was on the mark. An excellent Bulldog secondary was able to work miracles and create the turnover. For the next 6:44 of first-half play, the defenses took over as each team exchanged punts. At the half: Davidson 3, Citadel 16.

A second interception led to a Bulldog TD early in the second half. The Dogs took over on the Davidson 22, and they had little problem converting it into seven points.

That was all of the scoring, and the opposing defenses went at it from there. Despite a 23-point yield, the Wildcat defense played extraordinarily well and was severely handicapped by the turnovers.

So what now? After a blowout win over highly-touted Boston University, has the Citadel loss thrown the team back into the pre-BU rut? Coach Farrell doesn’t seem to think so. “We have potential for the trend to continue. Against BU, things really fell in place. Hopefully, that was a turning point in our play, but we can’t use the Citadel game as much of a measure.” The Citadel is a Division I school and has better talent when you get right down to it.

What may well be a better measure of the play of the post-BU team will come Saturday against Hampden-Sydney. Coach Farrell calls the H-S game “one of those aggravating games” in which “we dictate the outcome.” The shoe was on the other foot against the Citadel. The Tigers, a Division III team, have an easy time getting up for the Davidson game, and in the seven-game series, they have won twice and allowed an easy win only once. The game will be no piece of Homecoming cake.

The fullback trap

1. The quarterback takes the snap and drops back as if to pass, but hands off to the fullback. The key to the play comes in the blocking between the Center (offense) and Nose Guard (defense).

2. If the Center blocks the NG to the left, the fullback goes right (solid line). If the Center blocks the NG to the right, the fullback goes left (broken line). The other players must block their assigned opponents, or the play goes for little or no gain.

At Piedmont Bank, we have 11 offices to serve you in 8 growing communities.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October