What we need is a good three-term language program
Jeff Jordan ‘83

Does Davidson’s language requirement achieve its objective of giving students a functional proficiency in a foreign language? As Dr. Alan Singerman said in his column last week, if the language programs here do not approach the achievement of this goal, and the college is unwilling to change either the goal or the programs themselves, then Davidson is merely “bowing toward” the ideal of a liberal arts education. The goal is a good one; the programs have left something to be desired. I believe there do need to be changes in the existing programs, but I feel this can be accomplished without adding a fourth term to the requirement.

Davidson students must already fulfill an English composition requirement, a three-term language requirement, 12 courses covering the area requirements, and at least 10 courses in most majors, potentially 26 courses out of the 36 most students will take in their four years here. Dr. Singerman mentioned that even by taking into account “the high learning potential and seriousness of the typical Davidson student,” the current curriculum stretches expectations beyond credible limits. The point he failed to make, however, is that even more than intelligence, a student's will to learn determines how well he will acquire language skills. If the language program is ineffective, it allows students to complete three terms without putting anything of themselves into the courses, and thereby gaining nothing from them. If, however, the program is exciting and challenging, students—even those with no immediate plans to utilize these skills through a term or year abroad—will become enthusiastic.

The potential of the new revamped French 20 course should not be sold short on the basis of how well students performed this year. I took the new French 20 course after studying French 1 and 10 under the old program last spring. The elementary courses just did not prepare students adequately for the new French 20. Only this term has there been any effort to improve the elementary courses. With a better background from an upgraded elementary French program, the third-term course can take students much farther towards the College’s goal of functional proficiency.

The maintenance of functional proficiency also requires continued contact with the language. JYA students who have spent a year immersed in a country’s culture and language often remark that they lose much of their proficiency when they return to Davidson because of lack of contact with the language. If a student completes his language requirement without learning much of the language, he has little motivation to continue his language study. If, however, a student is excited about the background he received, the chance of his taking additional courses at Davidson is much greater. Requiring a fourth term of language will not necessarily increase students’ proficiency; only their will to continue can allow for the improvement of their proficiency.

The situation at Davidson needs improvement. Let us, however, achieve what we can within the existing structure and not initiate another French Revolution.

Jeff Jordan is a sophomore economics major from Charlotte. He will be participating in the JYA program in Montpellier next year.

The Davidson College rich kids, celebrate Reaganomics
Rob Bowie ‘81

Arrgah!!! Awaking from terrible dreams some 20 years ago, young Ronald Reagan found himself transformed into a big-time Republican. Staring at his blood-red eyes in the soap-fogged surface of his mirror, Reagan bravely reconstructed the traumatic vision that had just swept away his faith in the Democratic party. The graduated income tax, which others sinisterly depicted as nothing more than a fair way of raising government money, was actually a conspiracy of Godless International Communism!!! Everywhere, the Vote Snatchers were taking ordinary citizens and silently turning them into soulless socialists. The majority of these victims didn’t even want to redecorate the White House! They demanded the sinful policy of public housing!!! The most jaded among them went so far as to regard legal services, health care, and food as basic human rights. Arrga!

Leaving that bathroom, Ronald Reagan walked with a sense of conviction not seen in a man since some of his silliest Westerns. Having completed his own metamorphosis, Reagan now wanted to change the nation. Reagan’s basic policy can best be described as Capitalism with an Idiot Grin. His speeches over the last year consistently promise the inconsistent programs of government cuts, a balanced budget, tax cuts, and a massive increase in defense spending that renders the first two impossible and the last impractical.

Reagan wants nothing less than a grand redistribution of wealth from the poor to the rich. His across-the-board tax cuts automatically help the well-heeled, who, after all, pay most of the taxes. The reshuffling of government spending from social programs to defense won’t stop inflation, as it will scarcely make a dent in the state’s overall cost. Wealthy contractors, however, will be able to beat the high cost of living with the lucrative commissions enjoyed by those who move Reagan’s money out of food and into bombs. As the balanced budget emerges as the phantom it was all along, Reagan will be forced to deal with the mounting inflation rate and, I predict, will end up adopting the Apocalypse Now option of voodoo economics.

Correction
A misprint in Nick Graham’s column “SGA should work for membership on Board of Trustees” in the last issue of The Davidsonian altered the intended meaning of Mr. Graham’s sentence. The sentence as printed read, “At present, the SGA does not much to maintain healthy links with individual Trustees.” It should have read “...The SGA does much to maintain healthy links...” We apologize to Mr. Graham for the error.economics: pushing the credit rate up to such incredible levels that the country inevitably plunges into recession. Since World War II, the inflation rate has risen continuously as workers banded into labor unions and large corporations snuffed out the competitive forces that were supposed to make capitalism tick. These new forces have led to the bizarre phenomenon of “stagflation,” in which the inflation rate continues to grow in the face of high unemployment. Reagan’s return to feudal capitalism doesn’t take these new factors into account. Free competition is no longer the answer; Exxon and Shell won’t compete as it is not in the best interests of either to do so. To control prices, Reagan will turn, like Carter before him, to the money supply as his major economic tool. Unfortunately, if Carter’s experience is any indication, using interest rates to cure inflation is like performing brain surgery with a meat cleaver. The hacking produces a recession, and prices drop. But the cost in the employment rate is unacceptable. What should be done? To start with, Reagan’s 30 percent tax dodge should be thrown out for the inflationary handout it is. The Defense Department, which clamors every day for more loot to use in its “noble causes” around the globe, should be trimmed down to size. This would make a balanced budget at least a possibility and give us a chance to control inflation without committing economic suicide. Interest rates must be brought down to make small investments worthwhile once more. International competition, such as that which has forced the automobile industry to innovate, at last, must be allowed to continue. Companies that fix prices should be either trust-busted or regulated to prevent them from holding the rest of the country hostage to their greed. Finally, the less well-off should not be asked to pay for the mismanagement of their lives by bureaucrats and stockbrokers. Only by returning to sanity and common sense can we prevent the American Dream from becoming a nightmare under Ronald Reagan.

Robert Bowie is a senior English major and Tom Wolfe admirer from Anderson, South Carolina.

Sure, I feel fine now—why do you ask?

Hark, that awful din disturbs us
James Pollard ‘84

The awful noise used to signal E.H. Little’s closing time is out of keeping with the standards associated with our hallowed institution. Although most students fortunately do not experience the “E.H. Little buzz” on a regular basis, I feel that the effects of a single dose of this elixir are disturbing enough so as to warrant a change. At one time or another, each of us has been in the library late at night, dreamily perusing the liver-spotted pages, when we were rudely disturbed by what has to be the most obnoxious din created by man. Picture the poor scholars huddled over their notes, eagerly using every last minute of library time, with glistening visions of truth, knowledge, and medical school admissions dancing in their heads, when suddenly they are wrenched from their serene little world, all their hearts skipping a beat in one cosmic instant. For the inexperienced early morning studier, the buzzer is particularly frightening because it is unexpected. The noise evokes the sort of psychological terror one would expect of Clockwork Orange-style behavior modification treatments. To those of us who often use those last few minutes of library time, the buzzer does indeed seem like a punishment, making us feel that we are committing some sort of heinous crime. The buzzer says, “Leave immediately or all your offspring will be born cross-eyed!” This is what you get for whiling away your hours antisocially when you could be with your friends, having a good time drinking ARA’s beer (perhaps experiencing a different sort of buzz).

Seriously folks, in a place where knowledge is cherished is it not a bit odd that scholarship is so seemingly disparaged? But there is something far more improper about that buzz. Davidson stands for culture, inventiveness, and appreciation of the aesthetic. We need a buzz which is in keeping with our refined image, something soothing to our genteel senses. That electronic demon is gauche, barbaric, proletarian. My own feeling would lean toward the romantic. I would enjoy the distant wail of a foghorn. Do you like bells? Big bells, little bells. How about chimes? In searching for an aesthetically pleasing announcement device, we must not limit ourselves to an auditory means. Nothing is surer to please a human than the tactile. Feathers are super. It would do wonders for late-night study morale if fair, lissome nymphs could gently tickle us scholars to arousal. Clearly, there are a number of alternatives to the present mode of signaling the library’s closing time. It is downright immoral for a cultured psyche to be so injured. Tonight, in protest, I simply refuse to obey this obscenity of the electronic age. Come get me with your bloodhounds, Dr. Park! It is now 1:15 am Saturday, and I have finished scratching my frustrations on paper. Sitting in the pale depths of the library, my thoughts turn to escape. I realize I am stuck here. Being an outdoorsman used to sleeping without a mattress, I do not find the floor uninviting. Yet the very thought of a Davidson gentleman involuntarily sleeping without pillow and covers is disconcerting. My Goodness!! I have discovered the perfect waking device—no waking device! Instead of waking the poor scholar with that awful racket, leave him be! Instead of startled rage, pleasant dreams!

James Pollard is a slightly choleric freshman from Tucker, Georgia.