Mirrors and Mr. Reagan

The political and economic history of the last two years can be acidly summarized in the answer to one question. It was asked in January 1980 during the first Republican debate of the campaign: “How can any President curb inflation, cut taxes, increase defense spending, and balance the budget all at the same time?” John Anderson gave an answer that has survived to haunt the Reagan Administration: “It’s very simple. You do it with mirrors.”

Now the mirrors have broken. However contrite David Stockman is, his revelation in the Atlantic Monthly proves the accuracy of the Anderson insight. The metaphors have changed; Mr. Stockman speaks of Trojan horses and greedy hogs. But the meaning is the same: The Administration has known for months that its economic policy cannot work — but has pretended to the public that it could. Now the public knows the truth, and with any sort of luck, Mr. Reagan will be forced to face his problem.

The problem is not what to do about David Stockman, damaged credibility and all. That is minor compared to the real problem: what the President should do about his economic program. Will the Administration finally devise a program that responds to the truth or political pretense? There is still time, but not much. The greatest risk is when the current recession ends — probably around mid-1982 — fiscal and monetary policy will again be on a collision course. That could usher in another stunted recovery and yet another Reagan recession. That’s a grim scenario, but not far-fetched. The Administration has, wisely, abandoned trying to balance the budget by 1984. But it is not that the deficit will shrink even by then. If this prospect does not improve by the time the recession ends, the Federal Reserve Board will weigh in again with high interest rates to beat inflation back — and cut the recovery short.

The only way out for Mr. Reagan is the way Mr. Stockman has urged on him for months: get serious about the deficit. The place to begin is waste, which the Budget Director thinks may yield $30 billion in waste.

What Stockman really said

You might look at “The Education of David Stockman,” as recounted by William Greider in The Atlantic Monthly, as a drama in three acts. Act I opens on an earnest and likable young man of undisputed ability. He is testing his theory of what the world ought to be against the reality of what is. David Stockman begins his career as OMB director by asking his agency’s forecasting model to tell him what the Reagan economic plan will mean for the federal budget. The model tells him the obvious: the big tax cuts and defense increases that the plan calls for will stimulate the economy — but not nearly enough to close the yawning revenue gap. Stockman fiddles with the model a bit to take account of the “expectational” effect of the plan on inflation and productivity. That helps a little, but huge deficits remain. The deficits are so large that closing them might require dismantling all federal non-defense activities except Social Security, veterans’ programs, and a few other essentials. Stockman does not disguise this fact either in his discussions within the administration or in the documents he prepares for Congress. He puts together a package of spending reductions that total about $50 billion by the next fiscal year. The large additional cuts needed to balance the 1984 budget are shown in the document as “additional savings to be proposed” — the “magic asterisks,” as Senator Howard Baker later describes them. So far so good. One could certainly question the rosy forecast — and wonder what would happen if it didn’t come true. But everything is clearly labeled.

Jodie T. Allen from the Washington Post

Stockman hopes that the harshness of the future cuts can be softened by curbing defense spending and scal-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In bringing back the tax cut, he tries, without any success, to get administration agreement to balance the package by closing some tax loopholes and cutting a few subsidies for the well-off. Stockman’s second-act role is less appealing. The sealing of the budget and tax packages is in full swing. In the heat of the battle over the budget cuts — and the euphoria of greed over the much larger tax cuts — few congressmen remember the problem of the “magic asterisks.” Stockman does not remind Congress that, in voting for defense increases and tax cuts, it is also voting for either huge non-defense budget cuts or gigantic deficits. Stockman begins to make deals he knows he can’t honor in the future. A new sort of discrepancy creeps into the numbers — one that’s much harder to spot. It comes from small changes in what you assume the world would look like if you don’t change a policy — and how it would behave if you do. Or from putting artificial caps on out-year spending that you know won’t be sustainable when the time comes to apply them. Or shoving off the full impact of tax cuts into future years.

Davidsonian, Friday, 11 December 1981

The President has not been made for spending $20, $30, or $40 billion on the B-1 bomber. In the civilian area, the President will have to face up to trimming the growth of entitlement programs, particularly Social Security and Federal pension plans. Cutting spending alone won’t be enough. Swallowing his pride, the President needs to plan now for new taxes once the recession ends, starting with new excise taxes on cigarettes and alcohol; user fees for those who benefit from harbors, waterways, airports, and irrigation projects; a gasoline tax to encourage conservation. He could also pull off his shelf a plan to close $20 billion of tax “loopholes” that Stockman prepared earlier this year. What better time to chip away at unjustified and inefficient tax subsidies like the oil-depletion allowance and at least some part of the home-mortgage interest deduction?

David Stockman’s story demonstrates that such ideas are not welcome at the White House. Reagan clings, or pretends to cling, to the economic theory that lowering taxes is enough to raise the tide, and all the boats. But now the tide is out — and so is the truth. Stockman accuses the other side of gimmickry, but both sides are fudging. Also lost in the horse-trading are the remnants of the attempts to balance losses for the poor with some measure of loss to the rich. But that’s the breaks of the game and, in Act II, the game is all.

As Act III opens, the applause is still deafening, but Stockman’s inner voices of doubt are heard again. He sees that the budget package has been tainted by the power of special interests. The never-solved problem of the 1984 deficit has been made much worse by the failure of the ill-conceived Social Security cuts. The tax bill is rolling toward passage, but it is picking up new and expensive encrustations at every turn. Wall Street is unimpressed, and the economy is softening under the impact of high interest rates. When Stockman’s defense control plan loses out within the administration, all real hope of balancing the budget is gone. Stockman goes before the House Budget Committee and tells them the bad news — without asterisks.

This is not a story of personal duplicity. Stockman’s behavior is not always admirable. It is, however, always understandable — at least to anyone who has played the policy game with a measure of honesty and self-awareness. Through it all, Greider notes, “Stockman kept asking and answering the right questions.” Maybe not soon enough, maybe not loud enough. But they were the right questions, and they still need better answers. What is sullied by the story is not the integrity of David Stockman, but the reputation of an economic program that never did add up.