_ Film reviews with Nick Graham

Polanski’s Knife in the Water; Stuntman

NINE FILMS WIND UP THIS term’s schedule in Love Auditorium on Wednesday with a showing of Roman Polanski’s first feature
film Knife in the Water. Made in Poland in 1962, before he moved westwards, the film is replete with what
eager fans will gleefully recognize as the Polish master’s stock-in-trade: claustrophobic emotions, barely controlled violence, sex, and a relentless documentation
of the horror underlying the relationships of the film’s characters.

Shot in an entirely appropriate monochrome, the film starts innocently enough when a well-off Polish couple of the tolerated bourgeoisie
— or party establishment, it is never made clear — take off to spend their weekend sailing. En route to
the lake they pick up a young hitchhiker and thereafter things turn slowly but ineluctably nasty. Almost immediately the passenger
provokes the husband into fulminations against the idle young and thereafter manages to crystallize and exacerbate a whole series of
conflicts and hatreds between the couple. In this, he is of course helped by the growing sexual attraction which the
wife feels for him. In an atmosphere charged with tension and unvoiced jealousy — sexual and otherwise — the ill-matched
trio take to the water and find that the small boat is simply not big enough for them. Polanski exploits
the boat as a prop to the full and lays on the claustrophobia of the event in a commendable rather
than merely excessive fashion, producing powerful drama. While the action moves at an increasingly fast pace, one is left, upon
reflection, to wonder simply how these three characters managed to avoid open and violent conflict for as long as they
did.

The film moves towards its denouement with an increasingly frightening inevitability which, twenty years on, impresses and enthralls. It is
not difficult to imagine why two decades ago this film thrust Polanski to international fame and helped to establish a
new approach to psychological drama on film.

If all this sounds slightly too intimidating or weighty, take comfort however: the film comes highly recommended, and while you
won’t find the lyricism or visual beauty of Tess here, neither will you be assaulted by the kind of crudity
which Polanski occasionally overdoes so thoroughly — Rosemary’s Baby is probably the prime example of this in the man’s work.
On another level, the film is worth seeing as a salutary example of what can be done by a creative
artist in a part of the globe usually associated with draconian forms of censorship and the very worst excesses of
Socialist Realism. It also makes for an interesting comparison with last term’s Kanal by Andrzej Wajda, the great director of
the generation immediately preceding Polanski. Go along to see it in Love at 8:00 PM on Wednesday — the first
film by someone as important as Polanski deserves a large audience.

Stuntman — which, even if you saw it during first-run or at the Visulite a few months ago, is undoubtedly
worth a second or even a third viewing. Starring Peter O'Toole as a manic and possibly homicidal film director, the
movie is one of the finest homages to the art of motion pictures since things go badly wrong when a
character of Eli, the fugitive from justice, accidentally becomes an instant replacement, whatever dangers this may contain being outweighed by
the immediate alternative of arrest and imprisonment on a charge which is kept sinisterly vague. From the initial chase scene,
the film is a delightful celebration of the ability of the cinema to create and maintain illusions, as well as
a fascinating exposé of the tricks of the trade as we follow the apprentice stuntman through his crash-course of training.
Nothing is quite what it seems in this feature, from the characters and motives of most of the principals to
their interchangeable sex-lives. The stream of sight-gags in the action sequences is however tempered and complemented by the director.

O’Toole gives a wonderfully insane performance as the man ruthlessly obsessed by his need to finish his film, a pet
personal project which after years of disappointment is finally in production and threatened by more than the usual problems associated
with that precarious process. The film-within-the-film is a stupendously tasteless protest against the horrors of war which somehow failed to
get made during the 'Sixties, and Eli’s energy, mania, and ruthlessly funny one-liners hold together and pull through both it
and the film we see in the cinema. As with much of the finest comedy, the humor is relentlessly black,
becoming almost sinister as it becomes apparent to us that O'Toole may be trying for the ultimately realistic stunt —
the filmed death of his stuntman. The ending is gripping, as the illusion and reality of the two films coincide,
as well as being uplifting, and one leaves with the feeling that while Hollywood may quite possibly be the modern
Babylon, there is much comedy and humanity to be found in such a place. O'Toole steals the show effortlessly. See
it.

And this, gripping or not, to say nothing of uplifting, is where the illusion and reality of the Davidsonian coincide
and I come to the end of both this column and my stint as film-reviewer for this worthy organ. About
time too, one is tempted to say in relief, Nick’s Flicks, for the second and positively final time is going
to the great screening-room in the sky as this term’s Fine Films schedule does not run beyond Knife in the
Water. Here’s looking at you, kids.
