8—The Davidsonian—April 24, 1981

Nick’s Flicks

One of the more frightening anecdotes to emerge from the recent events outside the Washington Hilton (so far unreported in the American press, so far as I can gather) runs as follows. When the Executive limousine sped off with its wounded passenger, among the people sprawled on the ground was a high-ranking military officer who carried in a briefcase the codes necessary for retaliation to an act of Russian aggression. For over half an hour this man was left on the Hilton pavement and the White House had not the slightest idea what had happened to him. Had anything untoward happened, you would probably not be reading this now. I mention this sobering tale in order to encourage you to see next week’s Fine Film Dr. Strangelove (Wed. 8 pm in Love), which takes as its point of departure just such an error, demonstrating how easily this can be transformed into global destruction. That this is achieved in a monumentally funny film only makes the feature that much more disturbing.

While we're on the subject of authority, Davidson cinephiles have a rare treat in store for them this Saturday night. At 11 pm, Pop Films is showing entirely free a classic of the British cinema of the 1960s: Lindsay Anderson’s If. Starring Malcolm MacDowell in one of his earliest roles, this powerful, well-paced feature is set in a fictitious English school. It concerns the lives and fortunes of three sixth-formers who find themselves at odds with the institution of which they are a part. Caught in a limbo somewhere above the persecuted younger boys and the seniors (known as ‘whips’) who wield the real power in the school, they rebel, gently at first, merely testing the principle of dissent. Eventually, they declare outright war upon the hierarchy in a somewhat quixotic attempt to change their world. Made in 1968, If sometimes overdoes then-fashionable politics, but director Anderson skillfully uses the system of the school as an image of society in a series of long, impressionistic sequences which describe the tribal life of such places in what I can assure you is all-too-accurate detail. American audiences will no doubt find some scenes charmingly eccentric, but any laughter (the film is never less than entertaining) will be thoroughly silenced by a final scene which is among the most powerful in all cinema.

Finally, the matter of the absence of Marlon Brando from the screens of Davidson College this term. Lest the question of the rights and wrongs of showing Last Tango in Paris be merely allowed to be deposited beneath the nearest convenient carpet, I should like, for what it is worth, to put my own views on record. I do this as one who has made it his (shamelessly self-appointed) task to encourage the showing and viewing of high-quality cinema in Davidson, particularly European cinema, which I believe is not given the kind of exposure it deserves here. To my mind, it is a shame, and hardly to the credit of Davidson College, that the masterpiece of one of the world’s greatest directors is considered unfit for the eyes of students here. I would call your attention to the situation in the College Film Society, which I helped run at Cambridge: there, students were considered mature (or stupid) enough to be shown films of high quality irrespective of x-rating. Last Tango was a deservedly popular feature and played to packed houses. Compare, if you will, the situation here: a brief piece of fieldwork in Little Library revealed that many people were under the most astonishing misapprehensions as to the nature, subject matter, and quality of this film. They will presumably now remain under the assumption that an x-rating means only a writhing of thighs on the screens of Love auditorium. Should anybody reading this still have doubts about the quality of this film, Pauline Kael, probably the finest of all contemporary critics, hailed it as “the movie breakthrough” when it first played in New York in 1972 and concluded that the face of the cinema had been permanently altered by this one feature. To call the banning of this film tantamount to an apostasy by an institution dedicated to liberal learning and the dispelling of ignorance may be slightly extreme; it is, however, most certainly an act of blatant paternalism deeply insulting to the students of Davidson. Nor can it be argued that the sanctioning of an x-rated film would be out of keeping with the image of the institution.College. One can deduce from this powerful argument for a book-burning on Richardson Plaza fueled by much of the stock of Little Library. For any college of the liberal arts to countenance the banning of such an important film is an act of intellectual incoherence when the next morning in Humes (or whatever) the same institution teaches you to admire the stand taken against authoritarian censorship by Galileo or Martin Luther... or even John Calvin. The ban, however, will no doubt remain in force, and Davidson will continue to present a dishonest image to the world: one can hardly—alas—imagine the inertia of this place allowing anything else, certainly not legal action by students against administration as at Arizona or Northern Illinois. One is almost tempted to say that Davidson students merely get the movies they deserve: this is however certainly untrue: they deserve much better, and at present are not getting it. One hopes that some reasonable way could be found of changing this ridiculous ban in the near future. As it stands it merely penalizes and demeans the students of Davidson, and they are after all the people for whose benefit films are shown in the first place.

Faustus: By ANNE GOODWIN Asst. Features Editor

Doctor Faustus a farce? More like a dry tragedy, I had always thought. But reading Christopher Marlowe's play in English classes will be nothing like seeing the Davidson drama production. “Although the theme has tragic potential,” Director and Drama Professor Joseph Gardner said, “it has many farcical elements—it’s a hilarious play!” Senior James Baskin, who will play Faustus, agreed. Faustus “is at once ridiculous and tragic,” he said. Gardner said he found the play “exciting because of its blatant theatricality. It depends much on the theatrical equipment for the portrayal of the supernatural and the magical.” Baskin noted that Doctor Faustus was “written to be flashy.” And flashy it is! Just seeing a dress rehearsal was convincing enough. The lighting effects and elaborate props are spectacular. I was mesmerized by Mephistopheles’ first smoky entrance with a snake's head and red, glowing eyes, and I was amazed to see Faustus pull flowers out of thin air.

Although Doctor Faustus is an Elizabethan play, it “will not be done in Elizabethan style, as we're trying to give the audience the same ‘contemporary’ experience that Elizabethan audiences had,” Gardner explained. The costumes, for example, are not from a single historical period, but are designed to fit the characters’ personalities. Imagine the Pope in a white knit suit and pink shirt, and cardinals in red sunglasses. Damnation was never so fun.

The design of the stage is unconventional as well. An addition to the stage projects out over some of the seats, with some audience seating on it. The play itself recounts the story of a renowned scholar who sells his soul to the devil in return for the knowledge and service of senior devil Mephistopheles. Faustus’ concern for present pleasure blinds him to his future damnation. Gardner and Baskin see several levels of meaning in the play. “It is basically a morality play on one level,” Gardner said, about a man caught between medieval spiritualism and Renaissance humanism. On another level it approaches a fantasy with an almost nightmarish visual scene.” Baskin commented that despite Faustus’ scholastic brilliance, he has many defects in character. He “threw his life away on a magic trick,” Baskin said.

Baskin also sees the playwright’s personal struggle between theism and atheism presented in the play. Although Marlowe's first studies were in divinity, he turned from them and was later accused of being an atheist. His conflict between belief and disbelief is “a battle... presented before the audience,” which, Baskin said, is never resolved. Like the play, the production promises to be a rich experience. It opens tonight at 7:30 with a special student performance. It will run this weekend and next—April 24, 25, 30; May 1 and 2—at 8 pm. Admission is $2.50 for students and $3.50 for the general public.

Mephistopheles (John Richards) mesmerizes Faustus (James Baskin) with a puff of smoke in the drama production, Doctor Faustus. The play opens tonight in Hodson Hall at 7:30.

Heat beaters

Be comfortable in polyester Sero shirts Handsome silk ties Berle slacks Izod knit shirts from Haspel and Austin Hill and cotton blends. Grey pincord or Khaki poplin Weejuns and boat shoes Mack & Son DOWNTOWN, MOORESVILLE Come browse

Photograph by Pat Donley