May 8, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

News at a Glance

The following students will be studying in Marburg, Germany next year: sophomores Fred Broadwell, Tim Brotherton, Mark Burris, John Chidsey, Paul Griffith, Hal Martin, Laurie Noto, Richard Page, Ron Tunkel, and junior Mark Phillips.

The following sophomores will be going JYA to Montpellier: Mike Allan, Mort Ames, Jeff Dempsey, Lisa Draine, Jeff Jordan, Janie Larus, Sissy McCamy, Catherine McMillan, Laura Perry, John Stanback, Laura Terry, and Ruth Wolf.

The following sophomores will be going JYA to St. Andrews College in Scotland next year: Frank Bright, David Bruns, Tim Cassell, James Funsten, and David Taylor. Sophomore Tim Ritchie will be JYA at Edinburgh University. Sophomore Mason Olds will be JYA at Kent College.

The following students will be studying in India next term: junior Mark Barrett, junior Debbie Eisenbise, sophomore John Krotchko, sophomore Elizabeth McMillan, sophomore Tom Pafford, junior Edith Parker, junior Dan Robinson, and sophomore Liz Wilson.

Robert Shackleford will be arraigned in Charlotte on May 21 for the March 12 shooting of sophomore Joe Leman. Leman was shot in the chest with a .38 caliber handgun at Hattie’s Night, the annual beer party sponsored by Fannie and Mabel eating house. Shackleford has been charged with assault with a deadly weapon inflicting serious injury. The charge carries a ten-year maximum jail term. According to his lawyer, Charles Merriman, Shackleford is expected to plead guilty. If convicted, however, Shackleford could possibly receive a suspended sentence because he has no previous criminal record. The day after the shooting, Shackleford turned himself in to authorities, signing a confession. He was charged at that time with assault with a deadly weapon and with inflicting serious injury with the intent to kill, a felony carrying a maximum sentence of 20 years. Shackleford’s attorney “plea-bargained” to exclude the “with intent to kill” clause originally in the charge, according to Leman. Shackleford was released without bail on a pre-trial release program and his April 28 preliminary hearing was waived because of abundant evidence.

Leman, who was hospitalized for one week, said he is doing well, although he still cannot lift his left arm above shoulder height. He added that he thinks the court is “skipping justice to save time” by allowing Shackleford to plead guilty to a lesser charge. —Cambria Melton

There has been a marked increase in the incidence of stealing in several dorms on campus. It is important that students be aware of this fact and be careful in protecting their personal belongings and those of others. Stealing is a violation of the Honor Code and students are honor-bound to report suspected violations.

Clarification

Last week’s issue stated incorrectly that Admissions Director John Griffith supported Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole’s petition for a merit-based admissions policy which does not discriminate on the basis of sex. Griffith said he did appreciate the petition as an indication of faculty concern, but he did not support the petition.

COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD BEFORE

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

“We are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn't be. We're just regular people, and we try to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.”

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

The Hair Cottage
Creative hair cutting for men and women
Owner/stylist: Jane Schenk
1757 E. Rocky River Road
892-5107 by appointment only

(Continued from page 1)

However, the endowment’s 1979-80 fiscal year performance placed Davidson “within the top 12% of college endowments,” Currie said. The endowment generated $2,500,000 in interest and dividends over the last 18 months, a total percentage investment return of “slightly over 35%,” according to Currie. The three firms are Wentworth, Hauser and Violich of San Francisco, Fayez Sarofim and Company of Houston, and Lexington Management Corporation of New York. According to Currie, the Trustee Investment Sub-committee will meet with representatives of the three firms tomorrow morning. Currie said the Trustees will not evaluate the firms’ overall progress until they have had more time to achieve their investment objective. Wentworth Hauser is the College’s debt manager and invests only in fixed income securities by Trustee policy. The other two companies invest in both equity stocks and fixed income bonds and stocks. Energy stocks comprise the largest portion of the equity investments. (see graph) The Trustees have been delighted with the progress the endowment has made, especially the increase in"principal," according to Trustee Investments Sub-committee Chairman Edwin Lucas. Lucas said the College chose to have three companies manage the endowment because this encourages sound investment policies by introducing an element of competition. The College first hired a professional investment manager in 1967. From 1967 to 1979 Scudder, Stevens, and Clark of New York handled the endowment. During this period the endowment grew from $16,105,000 to $22,002,926 in market value, but had declined to just over $9 million in 1967 constant dollars. Debt manager Wentworth, Hauser, and Violich handles about $3.5 million of the endowment, all in fixed income securities. Partner Curt Hauser said his firm is restructuring the endowment to have more intermediate-term bonds which mature in four to five years so that bond maturity dates "will coincide with cyclical rates of high interest." Hauser said his firm has achieved a 3.8% rate of return on the Davidson bonds it handles. "This is good with respect to the rest of the bond market," he said, and "about even with inflation." He added that the College does not do as well as it could because Scudder, Stevens, and Clark mishandled the endowment, investing in too many long-term bonds which decline in value as inflation rises. Wentworth, Hauser, and Violich also manage the endowments at the University of San Francisco and Mills College of Oakland. Fayez Sarofim Vice-president Bill McGee said his firm invests heavily in energy stocks because they offer a "good return" and comprise about 30% of the American economy. McGee said there was "a strong market environment in 1980," but he could not predict if such an environment would continue. He emphasized that it is critical to "generate a rate of return that is better than inflation." Fayez Sarofim handles $13.5 million of the endowment. They invest 48.1% of their portion in energy stocks, holding 16,000 shares of ARCO stock, 15,000 shares of Exxon stock, 10,000 shares of Standard Oil of Indiana stock, and 9,000 shares of Pennzoil stock. The company also invests 51% of their portfolio in U.S. Treasury bonds, 7.4% in financial institutions, and 6.6% in consumer goods firms, including 6,000 shares in Coca-Cola Company, 10,000 shares in Philip Morris, 11,000 shares in Ralston Purina, and 3,000 shares in R.J. Reynolds. Fayez Sarofim manages several college endowments, including Rice University's. Lexington Management Vice-president Marie Flynn said a money manager must be "cognizant of the need for preservation of capital" in handling college endowments, and of the need for "at least keeping up with inflation." She said Lexington concentrates investments in "companies with superior earnings growth potential and relatively low-cost stock." Flynn added that Davidson got a good return on investments last year, but "recently the market has been undervalued. The next six months could be rougher." She said Lexington will "do its best given the economic environment." Lexington handles the endowments of Wake Forest and the New York School of Design in addition to Davidson's. The College once owned stock in South African companies. In February 1979 the Board of Trustees ruled that the College would not buy shares "of any South African corporations, or of any other corporations whose principal activities are in South Africa."

-Faculty vote (Continued from page 1) criteria used in evaluating colleges and universities is the number of fellowships its graduates win. The second argument was that Davidson's reputation rests mainly on its pre-law, pre-medicine, pre-ministerial, and pre-business preparation. Significantly fewer women than men enter these professions. As the proportion of women students on campus increased, Davidson's reputation could decrease. Physics Professor Locke White said he was concerned about the practical implications of sex-blind admissions. White feared that sex-blind admissions could make the College's enrollment predominantly female. A predominantly female student body would make the College "less attractive to both male and female would-be applicants." The faculty presented a petition concerning admissions policy to the Trustees 20 years ago, proposing to end racial discrimination.

Signals The End Bit Appleton ARRIVING IN AN SUV, HERE COMES Lenk, ABANDONED SCIENCE LORD BACK WITH SOLDIERS, SEEWAL AND Zuni TAKE CARE OF HIM! THE EVIL WARRIOR LODAK WHO ENSLAVED THE PEOPLE WIELDING THE MAGIC RUNE-SWORD, SLEWAL HORSES TO PARTNER LEPAK AND FREE HIS PEOPLE. BY A STRANGE TWIST, LODAK BELLOWS, "I HAVE THE SWORD! YOU ARE OF THE DYING FATHER COMING FOR STEAML; A COLD RIVAL GLANCE FROM HIS