April 3, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

A day in the life of Fred the dog

By JOHN KROTCHKO
Features Editor

There’s nobody at Davidson like Fred! There are dogs and there are dogs and dogs on campus: big ones, small
ones; striped, spotted and plain ones; brown-eyed, blue-eyed and cross-eyed ones; swift runners, slow limpers and easy walkers (I don’t
mean hush puppies). But there’s just nobody at Davidson like Fred!

Unless you’ve been cloistered in the library all year, you can’t have missed the little cream-and-white colored mutt trotting proudly
about campus with a far-away, aloof look in his eyes. He looks like the third generation product of some bizarre
menage-a-trois relationship among a collie, a pomeranian and a husky, and he’s shaped something like a slightly abused shoe horn.
That and the ear flopped lazily over on one side make Fred unmistakable.

Nancy Wright, a senior who lives at one of Fred’s major hangouts, Derby House, disclosed Fred’s spring schedule: Genetics at
nine, Invertebrate Field Zoology at eleven, and Computers and Statistics at one. Fred periodically audits just about every class in
Dana Science Building, so I asked Physics Professor Robert Manning what he thought of having a dog show up for
his lectures. “He wanders into Astronomy now and then,” he said, and added lightly, “He’s at least as capable as
thirty-five percent of the students in there and certainly as awake as eighty-five percent of them.”

Nobody I talked to could remember where Fred came from. Although he was probably abandoned, like most campus dogs, his
academic yearnings may be telltale signs of a beloved student who owned him in years past. Most students, however, remember
him as appearing last fall. Since then he’s carried a number of names. His first popular appellation was “Banjo,” contributed
by sophomore bohemian Bret Logan, who has a penchant for calling dogs weird names (he calls the big English Setter
on campus either “Clam” or “Intense”). Then, Fred started soliciting Esther Bruce and the girls on third Little for food.
“I was in a phase when I called everything Frederick,” Bruce explained. “He was just a Frederick.” Most everyone else
agreed, and the name stuck, leaving Bruce free to pass on to her phase when she called everything Kate...

Fliers appeared in December asking a kind soul to take care of Banjo during Christmas, but the break came and
the dog, then in failing health, was still homeless. Appropriately enough, Dean of Students Will Terry took him home for
Christmas. “Fred,” Terry observed, “is very solicitous.” Terry fed Fred and Fred happily followed Terry everywhere. But Terry initially failed
to recognize one of the major aspects of Fred’s independent lifestyle. “Fred’s only problem,” Terry said, “is when he gets
excited he’s not overly housebroken. We had some words over that.”

After break, Fred virtually forgot the man who had kept him from starving for two weeks. That’s one aspect of
Fred’s personality that almost everybody notices: “he thinks he can ignore those who have treated him well,” complained sophomore Cathey
Bost, who Fred recently dumped for Nancy Wright’s lovely dog Corti. They had been carrying on up on fourth Cannon,
Cathey said, but “he tried to cool things off when we started getting serious.”

“He’s the cutest, sweetest dog around,” Terry told me, but went on to describe Fred as “winsome, manipulative, endearing, fickle.”
Still, all in all, he had to admit: “How could anyone hate Fred?” Of course Fred knows this better than
anyone. “His best asset is his charm,” Wright said, “and he uses that to the fullest. What he wants, he
gets.”

“Lately he’s been a little cocky,” sophomore Mark Murrey agreed. That’s probably because Murrey has adopted Fred and feeds him
down at KA every night. Mark answered the fliers that pleaded for Banjo last term. No sooner had he done
so that he was initiated into Fred’s confidence in a rather strange way. He was taking a test in his
Biology 31 class one day when Fred entered the room and approached his desk. “He threw up right next to
my foot,” Murrey recalled. “That showed his loyalty or something, I guess.”

Murrey took Fred home to his farm in Pulaski, Tennessee for Spring break, where the first thing Fred did was
roll in a “cow pile.” Murrey took this as a very positive sign and would have left Fred on the
farm, but the dog wouldn’t leave his side.wake 5:45 PM wait for Mark ~12:00 PM bed 2:00 AM

SCIENCE BLDG. 9:00 AM Genetics 11:00 AM Zoology 3. Post OFFICE 12:00 AM

Cro (raacl) Krotchko) until their return to Davidson. Murrey plans to take Fred back to the farm for good this
summer. What attracted Murrey to Fred? “He’s just sort of an affable type guy,” Murrey said. “That and the ear.”
This Spring, Fred really has it made: a challenging course load, fraternity membership, plenty of friends to manipulate and ignore,
off-campus housing, and a steady girlfriend. The only things he doesn’t have are course credits and open invitations to Rusk
socials. But all in all, what Davidson student could ask for more?

JACKSON COURT BELK 4:00 PM Comp/Stats (Freshmen) B Soccer (Nancy and Corts) SR wict Terry House ~2:00 PM KA House
6. CROSS COUNTRY TRAIL 6:00 PM dinner CATHEY BOST C407 15 MEET RT: SB ESTHER BRUCE L311 6:30 explore &
MARK MURREY wi? Ato House 10. LIBRARY (bask in glory; watch study nerds)

Craftsmen make cherry oak sing at Blakely Organbuilders
By JOHN HARTMAN
Staff Correspondent

Many people are surprised to hear that there is an organ builder in Davidson. For some reason, organs seem to
be associated with large factories and are seen as the results of unimaginative assembly lines and mass production. But a
trip down Depot Street to Blakely Organbuilders easily dispels this image. Here the intricate, demanding, and venerated tradition of organ
construction is perpetuated every day by a handful of local folks in a small, two-room workshop.

Ralph Blakely, ’67, originally from Rock Hill, South Carolina, and Sam Gardner, '74, of Moultrie, Georgia, constitute the wit and
wisdom behind this operation. Their business came to fruition in 1976 after beginning as an organ tuning and maintenance service.
Blakely has spent a number of years in Europe, studying the construction and history of the organ, resulting in strong
ties between his work and its historical roots. As one might guess, he is a talented and accomplished organist.

According to Rita Freimanis (who, along with Robert Tinkham and Tina Anderson completes the roster of full-time associates), building a
medium-sized organ from the ground up takes from 12 to 18 months. Nearly every operation necessary to organ construction, following
centuries-old customs, goes on right in the shop. Some of these responsibilities are delegated to the seven Davidson students who
each work several hours a week there. Two aphorisms, indicative of both the humor and serious craftsmanship of the organ
builders, are often heard during a day’s work at the organ shop: “You never know how big a mess you
can make until you have made it,” and “If it doesn’t look good, it won’t work.”

By learning from these truths, Blakely, Gardner, and friends have been able to turn out a product which meets demands
from as far away as Lexington, Kentucky. Most of their work centers in North and South Carolina, however. Of course,
some operations, such as making all sizes of boards, are carried out with the help of modern power tools, but
hand planes, chisels, gouges, and other more traditional instruments are the technological mainstays of the shop. Some of these are
as steeped in tradition as the art that they produce.

As various wind chests, pallet boxes, consoles, keyboards, stop actions, and pipes take their shape from stacks of poplar, cherry
oak, and rosewood, the hands at the workshop begin to set up the organ right there. This can go only
so far because of space limitations, however. So an organ is never completely built until it has been packed in
pieces and hauled to its final home, usually a church or college. At this point, installation is also handled by
people from the shop.

In a time of mass production, corporate subsidies, and sacrifice of quality for the sake of profit, a look at
Blakely Organbuilders is refreshing. One finds that the vital link between craftsman and craft still exists, and tradition is not
just for those who can’t come to grips with the present. So when you next hear something about the organ
shop, don’t think of guys in leisure suits with marketing degrees pushing melody makers and big note songbooks. To see
what you should picture instead, try the second door on the left, two up from the Briarpatch Press.
