Friday 18 September 1981

DAVIDSONIAN

page 15

10:00 and 11:00 pm. 900 Room. Edmonds and Curley. This team has appeared with Dick Cavett, Mike Douglas, Merv Griffin,
David Frost, and Johnny Carson. Edmonds and Curley are making their return appearance at Davidson College. The number-one comedy team
with college audiences, they will present a variety of improvisation, skits, slapstick, and jokes. Tonight they will do two completely
different shows. Admission is only $1.00 for both shows.

10:30 pm Love Auditorium. Pop Film: “Midnight Express.” The story of Billy Hayes' experience in a Turkish prison on drug
charges. In case you ever wondered, this film explains why we have no JYA program in Istanbul. Admission $1.50 or
$10.00 for a season ticket.

9:00 am - Field Hockey at High Point.

9:00 am—4:00 pm Daryl Douglas Points Regatta at the Lake Campus. Come out and cheer on the mighty Davidson sailing
team. Participating in part are Duke, UNC, Hampden-Sydney, and Old Dominion.

11:30 am—1:30 pm 2nd Annual Cheerleader’s Barbecue on the Football Practice Field. Munch out on some great North Carolina-style barbecue,
coleslaw, and hush puppies.

1:30 pm First home football game at the football stadium: Davidson vs. Lafayette. Coach Ed Farrell says, “It will be
a very important game, the home opener against a prestigious opponent. The team is in very good spirits and is
in good physical condition.”

2:00 pm Soccer match at Tusculum.

9:45 am Sunday School. Student Lounge DCPC. This Sunday Professor Emeritus George Abernathy will present “Conversations on Human Values: Family,
Honesty, Equality” Part 1.

6:30 pm Catholic Mass Lingle Chapel.

7:30 pm Morrison Room. First meeting of Davidson Christian Fellowship (DCF).

7:00 pm Juggling in the Big Screen Room with our resident juggler, the ever-popular Bill Giduz.

4:00 pm Field Hockey at High Point.

7:00 pm Worship Service in the Morrison Room. Planned by students and conducted by our new college chaplain Charlie Summers.

3:30 pm Soccer Match with Western Carolina at the Soccer Field.

4:00 pm Job Targeting Seminar in the Morrison Room. Sponsored by Career Programs (formerly Experiential Programs and Placement). Come look
at possible jobs for Davidson grads. Recommended for seniors.

8:00 pm Fine Film “Blow Up” Love Auditorium. Michelangelo Antonioni’s 1966 movie.

10:00 am Coffee and Cokes in the Chambers Gallery. Meet Davidson faculty and students for “really intellectual discussions.”

4:00 pm Field Hockey with UNC-Greensboro. Here.

7:00 pm Summer Experience Sharing in the 900 Room. Listen to Davidson students tell about their “exciting summers” and learn
about summer opportunities. Especially for seniors. Presented by Career Programs.

7:00 pm Scabbard and Blade Meeting (ROTC Honor Society). Eu Hall.

College military science courses are courses in leadership development. You learn techniques involved in the management of resources. Techniques that
are applicable to any management job. Another important leadership characteristic is interpersonal relationships. Things are accomplished by people and the
kind of relationship established.

ARMY ROTC EARN WHAT TIMES ROLEND

Training in leadership: Whether you intend to become a manager in the Army or in civilian life, Army ROTC can
give you a competitive edge. Don’t wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class
schedule now.

Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen

Now open under new management

New York style pizza—fresh dough daily
Submarine sandwiches
College Night beer specials September 19, 23, 24

Takeout 892-3095.

Next to Lowe's Foods
