Williamson takes Bio Dept. helm

by Sheri Lind ‘84

Behind the walls of the Dana Science Building or perhaps at a recent coffee and cokes, students may have caught a glimpse of one of Davidson’s new faculty members. Dr. J. H. Williamson is a genetics expert and the new chairman of the biology department.

Dr. Williamson is a native of North Carolina and a graduate of the University of North Carolina. He did graduate work at Cornell and the University of Georgia. After finishing school, he worked for the Oak Ridge National Laboratories and later spent two years at the University of California at Riverside. His most recent years were spent in a 12-year professorship at the University of Calgary in Alberta, Canada.

Along with these academic and industrial accomplishments, Dr. Williamson is a member of the Genetic Studies Section of the National Institute of Health, an organization which screens proposals for federally funded scientific experiments. This position is both an honor and a learning experience; it involves reading 87 experiment proposals, thus keeping him informed of the newest developments in genetics.

Interest in research
As head of the biology department, Dr. Williamson will be responsible for developing a student-oriented research program. With the help of federal funds, he hopes both to modernize the biology department and involve two to ten students in active research. He points out that this type of program will be beneficial to both biology and pre-med students. The program will enable them to be prepared for more advanced graduate and professional school research because it will help students learn to ask their own questions, formulate their own experiments, collect data, and follow up with conclusions and new questions.

In his first months at Davidson, Dr. Williamson enjoys the friendliness of faculty, students, and staff as well as the open communication among faculty. The new professor is also looking forward to seeing the Honor Code in effect in contrast to the strict observation of students necessary at large universities.

Dr. Williamson views his future at Davidson as a type of experiment. After 12 years at a large university, he hopes to stay here for the next twelve and then decide where he should have spent the entire 24 years.

by Stewart Cauley
The Squeeze: “East Side Story” (on A&M Records).

The Squeeze have come of age in America. Although there are no Top 40 singles on the Squeeze’s new “East Side Story” LP, a quick glance at Rolling Stone's top 100 LPs reveals the Squeeze’s surprising entry at 13. Or is it all that surprising?

Not since the Beatles’ “Rubber Soul” and “Revolver” albums has England produced such an intelligent, charismatic pop sound. Like the Beatles in their ‘lovable pop’ period, the Squeeze are also looking for an American audience.

The Squeeze have never been anywhere but “top of the pop” for the last few years in Britain. All of their albums have sat on the top slot of the pop charts and have produced more big-selling, memorable singles than any group since punk rock sent good music to the underground trade in the mid-seventies. Their title track off “Cool for Cats” was the number one single two summers ago for weeks, becoming A&M Records’ best-selling single ever.

Immigration
“East Side Story” falls hot on the tail of the Squeeze’s highly successful North American tour and none too late. With the trendy English market falling mostly for synthesized Euro-disco and Blitz, the Squeeze were literally squeezed right out of their home market. Like all immigrants, the Squeeze have left their fame at home and have to prove themselves all over again. “East Side Story” is a good place to start and even without another record, it should easily establish them as the most intelligent and tasteful pop group in some time.

Although the lyrics are distinctly British middle class (usually hovering between beds and bars), the social commentary within them seems to have more application to the American ‘80s than England’s ridiculous steel punk anarchy. The Eleanor Rigby-ish “Vanity Fair” is a quiet ballad that a lot of my high-school-dropout-now-textile-worker friends should have playing in their red ‘66 Novas:

She left her school for the factory
From pocket-money to a salary
From a pack-a-mack to a compact case
And every morning she inspects the face
She discovers pulling pints in pubs
That the good looks will never cover up
For her dumbness in taking stock
She finds it all quite rare
That her measly salary is all Vanity Fair.
—Glenn Tilbrook

For an album this tight and this good, “East Side Story” is long. Originally it was meant to be released as two LPs with Paul McCartney, Nick Lowe, Dave Edmunds, and Elvis Costello each producing a side. (This was vetoed by A&M who made Costello head producer and let Edmunds sit at the knobs for “INQUINTESSENCE.”) Still, the album provides almost fifty minutes of all tight rock and roll. “East Side Story” gets a place on my shelf right between “Armed Forces” and “Rubber Soul.” “American Pop” should be glad this quintessential quintet crossed the Atlantic — at last.

page 19/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981