May 8, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

The abortion fight, seen by some as the political battle of the 80’s, is beginning to take shape. This issue
affects all segments of society, crossing sexual, religious, and economic barriers. There are three facets that should be investigated: the
right of a woman to control her own life, the motivation behind the “Right-to-Life” movement, and the authority of Congress
to legislate morality.

Although it is important to determine at what point the fetus becomes a human being, I believe that it is
equally important to consider the rights of the woman carrying that fetus. Let us assume, for the sake of argument,
that the moment of conception denotes the time in which the zygote becomes a human being and thus acquires the
right to life. Does the woman carrying this organism have the responsibility to sustain its life?

In “A Defense of Abortion,” Judith Jarvis Thomson, an American philosopher, contends that, although the fetus has a right to
life, the woman does not have an obligation to support this life even though her neglect to do so would
result in the death of the fetus. Having a right to life does not include the right to use another
person’s body to preserve that life. Of course, one would say that the right to life is stronger than the
right to do what one wishes with one’s body. In a series of interesting analogies, Ms. Thomson questions this premise.
If you alone had the right type of blood, would it be all right for the Society of Music Lovers
to kidnap you and plug you into a famous violinist in order to save his life? Would you be obligated
to stay, since without you, the violinist would surely die? This situation would be parallel to a case in which
a woman was raped.

One may contend, though, that by voluntarily engaging in sexual intercourse one assumes the responsibility for a fetus that may
be conceived because of this act. If a woman opens the windows of her home and a burglar climbs in,
does he have a right to stay there? Moreover, if she put bars at the windows to keep the burglar
out but he gets in anyway, does she have an obligation to allow him to stay? This argument, I believe,
sufficiently explains the rights of the mother versus those of the fetus.

Practically speaking, if women are ever going to be able to have control over their lives, they must have control
over when and if they become pregnant. No one is pro-abortion, but many people are pro-choice. The right to choose
abortion enables a woman to decide what will happen to her body. This is the most basic of individual rights.

Is the anti-abortion movement simply an effort by concerned citizens to protect the life of the unborn? To a large
degree, I think not. Opponents of abortion are attempting to impose their morality on society. Although outwardly it manifests itself
in the “Right-to-Life” campaign, the movement proceeds well beyond the single issue of abortion and questions the larger sexual morality
of our society today. The sexual revolution, sparked by reliable methods of contraception, permitted women to separate intercourse from reproduction.
Birth control afforded them greater freedom to pursue a career, etc. This has led to a greater degree of equality
between the sexes.

Both men and women oppose this new role for women. Many men, needless to say, wish to retain their domination
over women. Forcing them to bear children is a successful way to accomplish this. Many women find the choice of
whether or not to have children upsetting because it undermines the principles on which some traditional marriages were based. Before
reliable contraception was available, most couples did not have sexual relations until after marriage. A man was forced to take
on the responsibility of a wife and any children that were conceived. With the coming of the “sexual revolution,” men
no longer had to take on this responsibility. Abortion is blamed for the breakdown of family values.

We must also question the extremes to which Congress may go in legislating morality, especially in cases where no consensus
exists among the general populace. In the last two weeks, Senate subcommittee hearings were held on a bill, sponsored by
Sen. Jesse Helms (R-NC) and Rep. Henry Hyde (R-IL), that would establish conception as the beginning of human life. This
bill attempts to pick up where the Supreme Court left off. In the 1973 decision of Roe v. Wade, the
Court was unable to determine when life begins. Despite the Court’s reluctance and inability to do so, Rep. Hyde, who
describes himself as a “653-month-old fetus,” believes that Congress is qualified to determine the point at which life begins.

Cogito ergo sum

The United States now finds itself facing what the press commonly refers to as “the auto problem.” Over the last
two years, there has been a drastic decline in the sales of domestically produced automobiles. In fact, for 1979 compared
to 1978, total domestic sales dropped 1,700,000 units, with a corresponding increase in the industry’s unemployment of over 200,000 workers.
The crisis has raised crucial questions concerning what role the government should play in attacking the problem, the effects these
actions will have on the United States as an actor in the international arena, and, finally, questions concerning the auto
industry itself.

Abortion II
Carla Pezzullo
Jim Tholen

Car importsAttempting to legislate a matter which is clearly an issue for the Court, Congress is blatantly violating the separation
of powers clause. If this bill passes, the opinion of the majority could be viewed as a way to undermine
the rights of the individual. Carla Pezzullo is a senior history major from Roswell, Georgia, who worked with the American
Civil Liberties Union in Washington last term.

Quotas or voluntary agreements, there has been little attempt to address the underlying causes of falling domestic sales. The non-durable
goods sector, especially automobiles and steel, feels the effects of a domestic recession much more severely than other segments of
the economy. As gasoline prices have risen, there has been a profound shift in consumer demand. These external factors (the
recession, rising gas prices, and the corresponding shift in demand), along with internal management miscalculations, have all contributed to Detroit’s
downfall.

The industry has not been blissfully unaware of its fall, however. In the last ten years, the big three have
invested billions of dollars overseas. Significantly, the trend toward direct foreign investment destroys another key underpinning of the Ford-United Auto
Workers appeal for quotas. The industry contends that quota protection would allow the companies to re-tool and thus become competitive
in the small car market. Essentially, by asking Americans to pay more for automobiles, the industry is requesting consumers to
subsidize automobile production. What guarantee is there that this subsidy will not go toward further foreign capital investment? Apparently, the
industry has had sufficient internal funding for foreign expansion. Why has this capital not been invested domestically?

Thus, we see that any viable government policy must address the fundamental causes of the sagging domestic industry much more
directly than do traditional commercial policies. Short-term concerns revolve around the need to keep the industry afloat. In both economic
and human terms, the cost of the industry’s continued depression propels the decision-makers to offer some type of immediate aid.
But since the American people would bear the cost of the resuscitation, it is essential that the industry make specific
concessions. Wages for both workers and staff should be frozen (both nominally and in real terms), and capital outflow by
the automakers either discontinued or carefully monitored. Technology to increase domestic productivity must be encouraged through various tax and loan
incentives; the industry cannot afford to allow the union to impede the imposition of automation in the production processes. Some
type of adjustment assistance program must also be established, since the depressed regions involved will never support the number of
workers they once did.

The long term becomes much more complex; policy can no longer be thought of solely in terms of the automobile
industry. We must develop a strategy for the auto industry in the context of an overall industrial policy. The United
States must recognize the dynamic shifts occurring in the world economy. The country’s competitive edge no longer lies with traditional
manufacturing, but in the management and high technology industries. Policy must be developed accordingly. If government chooses to provide significant
aid to the auto industry, and it becomes necessary to provide these subsidies indefinitely, the country will inevitably follow the
British down the de-industrial path. Only by focusing on those areas in which we are and will remain competitive will
we achieve continued stable growth.

The outcome of the auto debate is of great importance because it will directly affect the power the United States
wields internationally. This country has predicated its post-war foreign policy (both economic and political) on the notion of “interdependence” and
“shared needs.” To compromise the past through policies that seem harmful even to the general welfare of the American people
is pure folly. Only by realizing where this country needs to go and how best to get there can a
truly meaningful decision for the automobile industry be made. By emphasizing both the long and short-term needs and weaknesses of
the industry, policymakers can formulate the necessary basket of policies to balance the welfare goals of the automobile sector, the
country, and the world.

Olen is a senior economics major from Bethesda, Maryland. This article is based on a paper he wrote for Dr.
Ortmayer's International Political Economy seminar.
