10—The Davidsonian—May 8, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

This week's column comes to you directly from North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, where the Brick Brothers and the Doughboys spend the weekend singing themes from the Wizard of Oz, watching David Evans ingest his vomit, and hearing Gus yell “Bonzai!” three times from the next room. While there, with our hands on what we perceived to be an invaginated ouija board, we saw into the futures of numerous Davidson personalities and feel compelled to pass our vision on to you. Here are some of your favorites, 20 years from now:

David Waddill—ex-president of Chrysler Corporation, Mr. The Brick Bros. Waddill has recently been invited to Davidson for the SGA and the sponsored “David Waddill Day” on which he told us things we already knew.

Debby Carlton—has just been promoted to sales manager for Eureka Vacuum Cleaners, hose division, and has set up a branch office in Belk Lobby.

John Davis—currently Vice-President in charge of Academic Affairs and head of the faculty, he moonlights as a mud wrestler at the Beanery.

Debbie Marshall—just married to President Strom Thurmond, her legal name is now Deborah Marshall Sanders Elmore Faulkner Cornelson Murrah Thurmond.

Doug Shanks—killed 10 years ago by a black militant who was protesting Mr. Shanks’ sponsorship of Old Dred Scott Day.

Lisa Hasty—house mother for Rusk House, she builds their social program around Old Indochina Weekend.

Eddie Haskell—founder and president of “Who’s Nothing in America,” he never got a job, never had a nose job, never quit dating his mom, and now works as a concessionaire at Cleveland Indians’ games.

Pete Collins—now 45, he owns Pete’s Retirement Home for Unwed Mothers.

Brett Storm—aging quickly, Brett is now 70 and produces “I’m stickers.”

Pat Sheridan—leader of the New Jersey secessionist movement, Pat has pledged to leave no stone unturned and no window unbroken in his campaign to lead New Jersey out of the Union. Don’t worry, he still has a scab.

Janet Ward Black—recently won the “Miss I-85 Bookstop” title with her rendition of “Mama, don’t let your babies grow up to run trailer parks.”

Rob Campany—chairman of the Davidson Philosophy Department and author of a textbook called “The Philosophical Statement on The Philosophy of the Philosophical System of Short Philosophers.”

Peter Hux—just presented the convocation speech entitled, “I heckle, therefore I was.”

Well, we’re too far over this column to write anymore, and the ouija board has sand on it so we took the last train to Mooresville and watched The Eggman with some people. Never. Clueless. Not a dirty old man. I’m just a sexy senior citizen bumper.

THE TONSURE (Continued from page 1)

The ratio has sometimes caused the College to accept a man ranked lower in his class than a woman from the same school who was not accepted, Griffith said. He noted that nationwide the percentage of high school women interested in going to college is rising, while the percentage of high school men pursuing higher education has peaked and is now declining. In addition, the nation’s 17 and 18-year-old population is declining. Griffith said he is proposing this study as a part of his “effort to assure that the College continues to bring the very best students to campus.” If the Trustees direct Griffith to make the study, he will present them with his recommendations and the study’s results at the fall Trustee meeting.

Griffith said he currently plans to focus the study in three areas: the relative performances of men and women at Davidson, donations of women alumni relative to donations of men alumni, and the relative levels of maturity of men and women entering college. The Admissions Advisory Council has endorsed Griffith’s proposed study and will work with Griffith on the study, according to Council Chairman Religion Professor Samuel Maloney. Griffith stressed that he could not predict what the outcome of his study would be or what recommendations he might make to the Trustees in the fall. He said the study would be analogous to a market analysis, assessing the advantages and disadvantages of the ratio.

The faculty resolved on Tuesday that the College should (Continued from page 1) initiate a merit-based, sex-blind admissions policy. Their resolution would be included in the study. Bingham will propose that the College offer the equivalent of one full women’s basketball scholarship for the 1981-82 school year, and that the College add one women’s basketball scholarship each year until the College is in compliance with Title IX. Federal regulation Title IX requires that college women be given proportionately as many athletic scholarships as men. Bingham estimated the College would need the equivalent of four full women’s scholarships in order to comply with Title IX. Coaches may divide the money into partialscholarships if they wish. The Athletic Advisory Council endorsed Bingham’s recommendation. Basketball scholarships for women were one of the recommendations a group of women athletes brought before the Advisory Committee on April 13.

Trustee meeting
Athletics Advisory Council Chairman History Professor David Shi said the council will not make recommendations concerning the women athletes’ other proposals until next fall, if at all. The council will meet Friday to discuss one of the proposals, the establishment of a new position in the Athletic Department, Coordinator for Women’s Athletics.

Trustee Athletic Committee Chairman Perrin Anderson told The Davidsonian in the middle of April that his committee would be formally discussing the Athletic Complex approved in the 1987 Program at the Spring Trustee meeting. The Trustee Athletics and Grounds committees are meeting together, possibly to discuss the new complex. The Trustees will decide in their meeting if they will grant tenure to Political Science Professor Robert Ortmayer and Psychology Professor John Brockway. Ortmayer and Brockway are widely expected to receive tenure.

Army week
If you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you may not have missed out. Because of the special two-year program, you'll have to attend the summer before your junior year. But you'll be well paid for it. Altogether, you'll earn a total of about $2,900 to help you through your last two years of college. Then you'll earn a commission as an officer at the same time you earn a college degree.

Belk Dorm, Davidson College
The Army ROTC Two-Year Program

BSC protest
King’s visit. King, founder of the Urban Crisis Center, conducted a series of racism sensitivity seminars on campus two weeks ago. Crum said the protest itself did not affect Old South drastically. He said, “Not the protest, but our desire to be sensitive this year,” motivated the fraternity to move the festivities off campus this year. The decision to hold the party off campus was made before the protest. The changes after the protest began were minimal, he said. Crum did admit, however, that there were several KA’s who did not attend Old South as a result of the protest.

Sophomore KA Tim Ritchie did not participate in the Old South activities on Saturday night, although he did attend the barn dance on Friday night. Ritchie feels the “Southern Gentleman” heritage cannot be denied, but thinks “it would be possible to redefine what it means to be a Southern Gentleman” without symbols like the name “Old South” and the Confederate uniforms. Ritchie said that the KA’s are far from being racists, so that “to change two symbols of racism should be a small matter.”

Junior KA Jeff Wall did not participate in the activities either. He said, however, that it was King’s seminar, not the BSC protest, which influenced his decision not to attend. “I agreed with what Dr. King had to say,” he said.

Sherman Allen, the sole black KA member, did attend Old South. He wore a Union officer’s uniform rather than the Confederate uniform. “I could not wear a Confederate uniform,” he said. Allen, who is also a BSC member, said although he went to the celebration, he “never stopped identifying with the feelings the blacks were feeling about Old South.” He feels that the Davidson KA chapter is unique because it celebrates Old South “for the right reason.”

Gerald Ford
Ford went on to call for new American initiatives in the Middle East. “For several years the Soviet Union has wanted a Geneva-type conference, with co-chairmanship by the two superpowers. This hasn’t succeeded, mainly because of the procedural issues that would have to be resolved. There are too many parties involved and the problems are too complex. The U.S., on the other hand, has adopted a step-by-step approach, which I used and President Carter later continued with the Camp David Accords. It is my judgment that we should build on this step-by-step approach.”

Turning next to China, Ford stressed the need to maintain strong relations with the Peking government. “Since the Deng-Xiaoping group has cast its lot with the U.S. we should do nothing that would precipitate it to back off,” he said. Ford hinted that any attempt to strengthen U.S.-Taiwanese relations at the expense of relations with the communist government would be a grave mistake. “As we look down the road, the U.S. has good relations with both governments. Future policy should be tailored to maintain this. We should take no action to support 15 million people over one billion others.”

Ford also stated that “at some time it may become necessary to establish military relations with the People’s Republic.”