Perimeter Complaints: Housing Director Wants Students to Clean Up; Students Want Housing Director to Clean Up

By Tim Whalen ‘82

Housing Director Bill Bolding sent a memorandum to the residents of perimeter houses on North Main Street on 24 September, ordering them to remove furniture from their yards, porches, and roofs. He said the furniture “makes the area look like a slum,” and he threatened, “We will truck off any furniture left out on porches the first of the week.”

Several students have complained that Mr. Bolding’s order was unfair, as the Housing Office failed to clean the perimeter houses over the summer. Thus, they contend, the Housing Office’s neglect, not their porch furniture, is the main cause of the unsightliness of the houses.

Grey House residents were the only people to move their porch furniture inside. They had taken the chair from their roof before the memorandum was distributed. Residents of Lafferty House moved in their furniture because of the threat but have now moved it back out and intend to leave it out, according to senior Lafferty House resident, Jim Troutman.

According to senior Henderson House resident Lori Boardman, she and her housemates wanted to get rid of the couch last year’s residents had left on their porch, so she and her housemates moved it out into the yard where it would be easier to pick it up. The couch was still in the yard this Wednesday.

Residents of Julia Johnston House and Martin Manor did not remove their furniture, nor do they intend to. Mr. Bolding said they have improved the appearances of their houses satisfactorily.

Mr. Bolding said on Wednesday that students have “moved all of the ratty stuff,” and “it looks fine.” He said that he does not expect to remove any of the remaining furniture, though he said he still might.

Complaints from Residents

The memorandum implied that Mr. Bolding was telling the students to remove their furniture because of “many complaints from residents of the town regarding the appearance of the perimeter houses along North Main Street.” He said on Wednesday that he and his staff have received about six complaints. He assumed the complaints had all come from different people. Junior Bill Seel, who works in the Housing Office, said he received two of the complaints.

Mr. Bolding and Bill both said that residents complained about the effect the furniture had on the general appearance of the neighborhood, and that they were afraid their property values would drop. Neither Mr. Bolding nor Bill would say who complained, other than that they were residents of North Main Street.

Mr. Bolding said he would “be happy to talk to the students, but they never talk to me,” and, “A lot of people complain, but never come to us. They assume that we know that their door sticks without their even telling us.”

Jim and his housemate, senior Rip Singer, both said that they and their housemates have all been to see Mr. Bolding at least once, though never concerning the porch furniture, and that Mr. Bolding has told them not to bother him about their house anymore. They said Mr. Bolding told them to direct all of their requests and complaints to the off-campus resident advisor, senior John Teague. Mr. Bolding denied ever telling anyone to stop coming to see him.

Grey House resident and SGA off-campus senator, junior Melissa McKeithen, said that she and senior Grey House resident Lucy Phillips went to see Mr. Bolding the day after they received the memorandum. Mr. Bolding was out of town, so they talked to his secretary, Mrs. Gracia Slater, instead. Melissa said she assumed that Mrs. Slater had passed on their comments. Last Thursday, Melissa went to President Spencer’s Open Office to discuss the problem. She said that Dr. Spencer recommended that she speak to Dean of Students Will Terry about the problem. She added that Dr.Spencer agreed that it would be good if the houses had porch furniture, and that it was bad that the houses had not been cleaned before students arrived for classes this fall. Four perimeter house residents said they started the year submitting their complaints and requests to Mr. Bolding, but they stopped because they felt the Housing Office was not responding. Mr. Bolding said that he forwards all work orders to the physical plant, and that he does not follow up on them unless the students tell him the order has not been filled. He said, “the physical plant was swamped at the beginning of the school year. I sent in hundreds of work orders. Physical Plant gets the job done.”

Some residents of Martin Manor said they have started talking directly to the physical plant, and that the physical plant meets their requests promptly. They added that their front door wouldn’t close, and the square foot holes in their back wall upstairs were repaired last week through the Housing Office’s initiative. They confirmed that they had not spoken to Mr. Bolding about their front door.

According to seniors Liza White, Linda Cruciani, and Mary Windham, they presented Mr. Bolding during the first week of school with a page covered in complaints. They said he was rude to them when they attempted to explain the condition of their house. On the other hand, Lori said Henderson House residents have not had too much trouble getting the Housing Office to handle their work orders. She said when school started there were seven desks for six people at Henderson House, but that three of them were broken. She said a few days after they filed their work order, they put the broken desks on their porch, and that the Housing Office then quickly had the two repaired and removed the third. Lori said, “He’s done pretty well.”

Senior Lafferty House resident Marvin Rogers put his foot through the floor as he was walking into a closet during the first week of school. The Housing Office quickly had the hole repaired, according to Rip. He also said that it took Lafferty House residents three weeks to get the College to do a follow-up spraying for a flea infestation they had at the beginning of the year. He said of Mr. Bolding, “He’s just not very cooperative.”

Parent complains
Mrs. Betsy White, mother of Liza and freshman William White, said, “I think it’s ridiculous for them to complain about porch furniture when the College left the inside so filthy for returning students.” She added, “If people pay the same rent to the College, they should receive the same cleaning service.” She said, “When we came in there, the house was just filthy. I’m sure nothing had been done all summer.” Mary said that the only apparent work that had been done on the house during the summer was that the kitchen had been painted. She added that the painters made a mess they did not clean up.

Students who live in Grey House and Martin Manor worked to clean their houses before school started. The Housing Office reimbursed Grey House residents for the cost of their cleaning supplies. Martin Manor residents do not plan to ask to be reimbursed because they have lost their receipts. Martin Manor residents said Mr. Bolding told them he did not have their houses cleaned over the summer because he did not know which furniture in the house belonged to last year’s residents and which belonged to this year’s occupants. The residents pointed out that the dust and filth did not belong to anyone, nor did anyone want it. They added that there are large storage areas that could have held whatever furniture would have to be moved in order to clean.

Mr. Bolding said the same cleaning crew that cleans the dorms was supposed to clean the perimeter houses. He added that, in addition to people leaving furniture in rooms of unoccupied houses, some of the houses had students living in them all summer, so the cleaning crew was unable to access them.