The visitors. Seven international students have one-year scholarships to Davidson College, USA. Each year Davidson gives a number of one-year
scholarships to international students to study here. The seven international students on campus this year talked about their reactions to
Davidson so far.

Ajay Sukhdial
Ajay Sukhdial, 21, who studied at St. Stephen’s College, an English college in Delhi, already has a degree in general
science. He sees his year here as a time to help him decide about the future and might stay on
in the U.S. to do some graduate work. “The people here are the best thing — I think that is
the major stabilizing factor for foreigners when they come.” Ajay has probably experienced the biggest culture difference of any of
the internationals but he was well prepared for it. “You can read about it and see it on the television,
you know, but I just wanted to come and experience it for myself. It’s really very much as I’d expected.”

John Hackett
John Hackett, 18, recently left High School in Dublin. “It would have been easy to go to University in Dublin,
get a degree and a job, and before you know it you’re married and stay in Dublin all your life.
I’m taking different subjects here to see what I like — I don’t know whether I want to be a
neurosurgeon or the next Pope.” John says he feels “very Irish” here. “When I see something on the TV about
Ireland I get this patriotic surge. We don’t have the sort of salad bowl culture Americans have, we’re more of
a family. I feel patriotic and proud of it too. I have a really rich and old culture behind me,
and Americans can identify with that as many have Irish ancestors.” John proceeded to unwrap a gift from his best
friend in Ireland which turned out to be a carved Celtic harp.

Helen Thorpe
Helen Thorpe, 20, is an English Major at Reading University. She came here because of the JYA students she had
met at Reading. “It was much easier to adjust to Davidson than it was to Reading,” she said. “It’s a
lot smaller and more intimate, almost cozy by comparison. There’s certainly a more relaxed relationship between professor and student. In
England the work is self-motivated, you set your own work and go to lectures if you want to; here there’s
more classroom atmosphere and that gives a much greater security.” “I don’t like getting up at nine though, I don’t
have classes before eleven back home!”

Sofia Moreno
Sofia Moreno, 19, from the University of Madrid, is a political science major. She has already traveled extensively throughout Europe
and in Africa. She stated her feelings on the U.S.: “Well, people are very tolerant here, they accept you can
behave very differently. It gives you freedom to be yourself but the result is that people are so accustomed to
accept anything they lose curiosity and aren’t surprised by anything; they don’t try to go deeper and understand why you
are like that.” “The system of study has good and bad points. The pressure means you learn a lot, but
on the other hand you never go very deep or get to know or even like something very well. You
get an overview. I think everything is too well organized for freshmen and almost paternalistic. It prevents them from standing
on their own two feet and becoming mature. I also find everyone so busy. You can’t take time to do
things slowly and appreciate them — little things like reading a book or talking with a friend.”

Suzi Kord
Suzi Kord, 21, has been studying English and German at the University of Marburg and hopes to work as a
translator of English, French, and Swedish. She finds it much friendlier at Davidson than at such a big university as
Marburg. “We had seventy people in a class and just read French, so it’s a big change studying French here!
The first thing that occurred to me was the difference in building houses; they have so much room here that
the houses...All have space in between. The eating habits are pretty strange — there’s no bread and the one cold
meal a day is lunch. In Germany, it’s the opposite; we eat a big meal in the middle of the
day and very little dinner. If I eat a lot at night it makes me feel ill so I’m not
going to adjust to that! There’s no individuality in the food, that’s what I miss most. I mean, we eat
hamburgers but not all the time.”

Véronique Raynal & Didier Chenneveau

Véronique Raynal, 22, and Didier Chenneveau, 21, are both from the University of Montpellier. Véronique majored in English and is
doing a master's in teaching French in the U.S. She said she was very surprised by the Honor Code when
she got here — “It’s a very strange idea for a French person, I can’t imagine it. Most French people
try to do exactly the opposite — try to do everything that is forbidden, and everybody understands that.

“People study so much here; but in a way the study is like we do in high school; I mean
it’s all structured. In France, we have to work for ourselves and be independent and more self-motivated.

“We tend to have a group of friends to do things with and we are always together but here it
doesn’t seem to be that way. Another thing that’s different is that we have fun every night of the week
and work on the weekends. But here it’s the opposite way around. I like going to parties, but I find
them a bit puritanical.”

Didier is a psychology major and is interested in working with juvenile delinquents. He spent a year in a high
school in California two years ago and is very used to the culture. “I’m hooked,” he said. “I really enjoy
the American way of life. I wish I could live and work here. I like the smallness of Davidson because
it’s the first time I’ve lived in a place like this, it’s really friendly. People are so open-minded; their attitude
to life is so positive instead of being pessimistic like we often are in Europe. They know what they want
to do and enjoy it.”

“I’m keen on doing anything different from what I’ve experienced. I love American football, fraternities; things we don’t have in
France, they’re really American. Time is going too fast though. Sometimes I feel I don’t take a chance on all
the opportunities given me — I really want to meet new people.”

Most of the Internationals are taking at least one course that is specifically American — either history, politics, or literature.
As Sofia says, “I definitely feel at a disadvantage because they refer to what happened x years ago and everybody
just knows about it. But I really feel it’s good for me.”

Helen said she was enjoying her literature course because she hadn’t had much American literature before. “It’s a minority interest
back home, but here it has so much context.”

What do they think about the isolation of Davidson? “Well,” said John, “if you’re left to sit around and think
about it too long this place could drive you crazy. That’s why I play tennis. You need something really moronic
like bashing a ball for three hours a day to keep you sane. There are lots of things to do
here you just have to get involved. If you go out of your mind it’s your own fault!”

Suzi agreed, “I’m just trying to get out of Davidson as often as possible.” They all want to travel in
the vacations as much as possible “but mostly to California — every European’s dream.” They all agreed that it is
the people who’ve made them feel at home. “It’s very easy to say hello and smile at somebody,” said Helen
“and it becomes instinctive, it’s conducive to an open atmosphere. I don’t know if it’s cause or effect.”

Ajay concluded, “I really feel I’ve made not simply acquaintances but friends.”

By Ant Goode. Suzi Kord

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 6 November 1981 — 9
