| ‘spe i ie ones Thon

Students elected Emanon representative Barbara Kelley as the 1981 Homecoming Queen. 1980 Queen Lisa Harbottle crowned Barbara and presented runners-up
with roses. The first runner-up was Sandy Fossett, representing the KA’s. Anne Keith, representing the SAE’s, was second runner-up, and
Sydney Foreman, representing Pax, was third runner-up. Rusk’s representative Knox Douglass was fourth runner-up.

Audits Planned

College Business Manager Bob Currie plans to conduct several random audits of fraternities, eating houses, and other student organizations each
year, starting this year. In the past, the college has conducted audits only upon an organization’s request and at the
organization’s expense.

Blood Drive

The American Red Cross and Davidson ROTC will sponsor a blood drive this Monday. Donors should come by the Union
between 10:00 AM and 4:00 PM. The theme for the drive is “Have you saved someone’s life today?” The ROTC
has set a 300-pint goal.

The fraternity, eating house, or freshman hall with the largest percentage of donors will receive a pizza and beer dinner.
A random drawing from independent student donors will determine the winner of lunch for two at La Toque Blanche (on
Depot Street here in Davidson). A random drawing from faculty donors will decide who wins dinner for two at the
Meeting Place, and a lucky staff donor will win dinner for two at the Little Kitchen.

The Yearbooks are Here!

The 1981 edition of Quips and Cranks will be distributed from 2 to 5 PM today in the conversation pit
of the College Union. Senior Diane Odom, Quips and Cranks editor for 1981, said that this will be the only
time the staff will distribute the yearbooks. She will make arrangements later for students who cannot stop by.

Students must present their Davidson ID to pick up their copies. They can also pick up friends’ copies with their
friends’ IDs. Copies will be mailed to 1981 alumni.

There will be a new procedure this winter for getting tickets to the basketball games. Students can pick up tickets
to the 30 November game against North Carolina State from Wednesday 11 November to 20 November and on Monday 30
November until 3:00 PM. Presenting the ID card for each member of the group. Students may give their complimentary tickets
to whomever they please, but once a student’s ID has been used for a ticket pick-up, he cannot obtain another
complimentary ticket.

BSC Fashion Show This Sunday

The Black Student Coalition (BSC) will hold an “Autumn Glow” fashion show Sunday 1 November in the 900 Room at
8:00 PM. Twelve models will display sportswear, as well as casual and evening wear. Fashions will run from Brooks Brothers
to Gentleman’s Quarterly. Not all models are BSC members. Desserts will be served. Tickets cost $1 and are available from
BSC members, at the Union Box Office, and at the door.

PUG Organized

Seniors Jim Northrup and Robert Jenks are organizing the Prime Users Group (PUG) with the help of Computer Center Director
Bob DeSieno. Robert said PUG will be “a liaison group” between the Computer Center and the computer users.

PUG may eventually hold computer short-courses and discussions. The Computer Center will hold an ‘editor and runoff’ workshop at 10:00
AM Monday, Wednesday, and Friday the week of 23 November.

Interested students can join PUG by signing up on roster sheets posted at various campus locations. One organization and 14
students have already joined the group.

The Computer Center is now open from 7:00 to 10:00 PM Sunday evenings. The center has installed new terminals in
Dana and Martin Science Buildings and in the Psychology department. There were 1300 logins on the new system during its
first two weeks in operation.

Postal Rates Rise Again

Starting Sunday it will cost 20¢ to mail a letter. We talked to Davidson Postmaster John Fisher, who gave us
the new schedule for postage. There will be a two-cent increase on the first ounce of first-class mail. Third-class bulk
mail rates will increase one-half cent for each piece of mail, and postcard postage will become thirteen cents. The new
rates will take effect at 12:01 AM Sunday morning.

Pres. Spencer goes to the Netherlands

College President Samuel Spencer left for Amsterdam Wednesday to attend the Regional Conference of Executive Directors of the Fulbright Commissions
in Europe and Israel. Dr. Spencer will moderate a panel discussion on new trends in higher education in Europe and
the United States.

Editorial Staff

Editor-in-Chief: Jette Moore
Production Manager: Lisa Buckley
World View Editor: John Lusk
Head Compositor: Keo Hanrahan
Calendar Editor: John Lusk
Advertising Manager: Bill Appleton
Art Editor: Jim Rumley
Staff Artist: Paul Schulz
Staff Artist: Jim Rumley
Staff Artist: Paul Schulz
