April 10, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

A man holding a seemingly unloaded pistol was playfully beseeched by his seven-year-old daughter: "Shoot me, daddy." A little while later she was dead.

One night a young woman living in a rural area of Tennessee heard a stranger knock at her door. When she refused to open it, he cursed and threatened her as he proceeded to tear the door apart. She promptly fired two shots from her .22 caliber rifle through the door, wounding her would-be assailant. The police identified him later as the cause of many earlier complaints received in that vicinity.

A man and his wife were quarreling and he threw a shoe from the bedroom into the hall where she was standing. She, looking for a means of retaliation, picked up a gun in a nearby drawer and fired a warning shot into the room to let him know how serious she was. The bullet entered the room as intended—but also entered his abdomen, liver, and lung before stopping in his heart.

Such are the episodes in American life that we hear as supporting evidence in arguments for or against gun control. They show us how guns are used to kill in fits of irrationality—not just premeditated murder. We can recount our own stories of Joe Leman and President Reagan as near casualties of irrational acts with guns. These tales all appeal to our emotions as they cry for attention.

Equally disturbing are the statistics bolstered in support of claims that guns are a major factor in violent deaths in this country. Every year about 10,000 people are killed in gun-related incidents (accidents, murders, etc.). It is estimated that 90 to 200 million guns are owned by Americans and half of our citizens possess guns in their homes. Charlotte and Atlanta, with their light gun control laws, had 24.7 and 20.4 murders per 100,000 people, respectively, in 1970. By contrast, New York, with tighter gun control laws, had murder indexes of 10.5, 1.25, and 1.9, respectively. On the other hand, New York has tighter gun controls than San Francisco and Dallas but San Francisco has fewer deaths due to firearms than New York and Dallas has more.

Is there really a correlation between homicides and gun availability? Would the murder be committed with some other weapon anyway? The arguments from statistics and dramatic events remain suspect in nature as we try to decide the merits of gun control. We do have a problem involving guns and deaths—this is evident. Just as evident is the ease with which a gun inflicts death, whether intentionally or not. There simply does not exist another instrument of similar versatility and availability that is capable of inflicting damage of similar magnitude with so little effort. Thus the correlation of murders and gun availability appears logically valid.

If we recognize the misuse of guns as a major cause of death in the United States, i.e., on the order of 10,000 people a year, what should be our response? We have in the past been quick to control or ban life-threatening objects to protect society. If we are ready to ban certain drugs, firecrackers, and switchblades, we should at least be willing to restrict or ban assault rifles and handguns which do not serve even as hunting devices. Even in the case of strict controls on hunting rifles, would not the inconvenience to hunters be a small price to pay for the lives saved by tighter controls on guns?

Admittedly, banning or restricting the availability and use of arms does not get to the root of the problem—only the symptom. But as long as we do act irrationally, so as to make the gun a tempting tool of vengeance, would not the absence of guns cause our destructive potential in such moments to be less catastrophic? Hence the banning of guns is not to be seen as a cure but merely as an act of self-protection to maintain life as we attack our central social problems. Banning guns may be necessary for the preservation of life but never as a cure for our social ills. By banning guns we take from the hands of society an instrument which has proven especially destructive when used to express discontent. This violent discontent, as well as ignorance of gun safety, are still very real and not to be ignored. The elimination of social ills may eventually result in the elimination of the need for gun controls and possibly of the desire for the guns themselves.

Danny Armistead is Cogito ergo sum editor.

Orphan’s blues

Orphan left the meeting. The long speech about "Americans and their History" was over. The speaker had hardly mentioned the INDIANS. Orphan was not upset, he was disappointed. The next morning when he opened the official newspaper of the city—the one which spreads out the official ideology of the community—he felt sick. A whole page was filled by two long articles about ABORTION: none of them even used the word "Woman." One article in favor of abortion, the other against: they were written by two distinguished male philosophers. Maybe they thought that they had produced a nice academic battle of ideas. Not even mentioning women, at the root of the problem—only the symptom.

A preppy country using words so unconsciously ("... the ultimate authority on the problem of abortion lies in each man's stomach." J.D.), and calling for such stereotypical arguments, made Orphan think that the whole page was a piece of TRASH. He whispered: "Words, words, words..." and he threw the paper away. He was sure that the next time they would write "On the ethics of work in big cities" without mentioning blacks. Orphan wrote a letter to the paper with no hope to be published. He thought about leaving the pink and green country. And he spent the rest of the night waiting for hiskillers to come. Didier Valery International Student Award immortalizes Davidson’s Hemingway

By JOHN BOSWELL Staff Writer

In the summer of 1932, two fresh graduates of Davidson College decided to head west for California to see the Olympic Games in Los Angeles. They went as far as their money would take them—Lake Charles, Louisiana. One of the new Davidson alumni, Grier Martin, went on to become the president of the college in 1958. The other was a man by the name of Vereen Bell.

In Lake Charles, Bell met a professional writer, who eventually trained him in the art of creative writing. After that one encounter in Louisiana, Bell went on to become one of the most promising young writers the South has ever produced. Sadly, however, this prominent and fascinating graduate of our college is all but forgotten by today’s students. Outside of the English department, few students even know of the annual creative writing awards given in his memory. This year, however, there are some efforts to revive interest in the man and the award. The judge for the awards will be renowned author Tom Wolfe. Wolfe will also be the speaker at Spring Convocation, and the winners will be announced at that time, rather than at a separate ceremony. The key to appreciating the award, however, is to understand the interesting and inspiring history of the man.

Bell wrote of the South and her people. His works dealt with the outdoor field sports of hunting and fishing and the field trials of bird dogs. He seemed to be a mixture of several modern writers. He had the southern flavor of Faulkner, Wolfe, and Dickey, while he wrote of the he-man sports of hunting and fishing that were so important in Hemingway’s works. Mrs. Louise Martin, Grier Martin’s wife and a friend of Bell’s, said, “I have no doubt he would have been one of the South’s greatest writers had he lived.”

Vereen Bell was born in 1911 in a little town in south Georgia called Cairo. His father was Judge R.C. Bell, Chief Justice of the Georgia Supreme Court. In Cairo, he found his love for the outdoors, for hunting, for fishing—all of which would later become the focus of much of his work. At Davidson, Bell was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity and editor of the college humor magazine, The Yowl. “He was more of a playboy than anything else,” Mrs. Martin recalled. “He had a marvelous sense of humor; ruggedly handsome, very blonde.”

Hoping to go into journalism when he graduated, Bell tried to get on the staff of the Atlanta Journal. That job fell through, however, probably because Bell graduated in the midst of the Depression in 1932. So he left Davidson without knowing what he was going to do with his life. It was then he made his trip west, only to stop short in Lake Charles, Louisiana, where he and Martin stayed with a friend from college. There, according to Mrs. Martin, Bell met Frederic Litten, who worked for American Boy magazine. That winter, Bell went to live in Lake Charles, perfecting his writing craft under the tutelage of Litten. He also had time to hunt and fish, and incorporated his interests in these sports into his stories.

A year after he began working under Litten, Bell sold his first story to a minor “Sunday school magazine,” Mrs. Martin recalled. With the fifty dollars he received, he promptly went home and married his long-time sweetheart, Florence Daniels. From then on, Bell and his wife never lived on anything but what he earned selling stories to magazines. Although his family had money, he was fiercely independent, and wanted to make it on his own. He sold stories to magazines like the Saturday Evening Post, Collier’s, and American Boy. In 1935, American Boy offered Bell, then 24, the post of Assistant Managing Editor. He promptly accepted and moved to Detroit. Bell stayed there for several years, but soon grew tired of Michigan and its short hunting season.

He decided to finish and sell a novel—Swamp Water—which was serialized in the Saturday Evening Post in 1941. Swamp Water is the story of a man wrongly accused of murder, and narrates his escape into the shelter of the Okefenokee Swamp in south Georgia. The novel was made into a film by Twentieth Century Fox soon after it was published. Produced by Darryl F. Zanuck, it was the first American directing job for renowned French film director Jean Renoir. The film starred Walter Brennan, Ward Bond, and Dana Andrews, cast as the hero. (Be sure and see this film April 23).

After the success of Swamp Water, Bell’s works were in constant demand. He sold many other short stories and one more novel, Two of a Kind, a story set amongst the world of bird dog field trials. Vereen Bell sold Two of a Kind in 1943. In this peak year of wartime activity, Bell’s patriotism got the best of him. Even though he wasn’t drafted, Bell joined the Navy’s Intelligence department. He was stationed aboard the aircraft carrier Gambier Bay, and died when the Gambier sank during a surprise Japanese attack in the second battle of the Philippines. His family and friends from both Georgia and Davidson mourned his death.

Before the end of the decade, Bell’s father and Grier Martin tried to start a memorial fund for the young writer. They wanted the fund to provide an award to be given for creative writing at Davidson, which would be presented each year by a well-known writer. Judge Bell and Martin appealed to family and friends for donations to the fund, and the first Vereen Bell Award was given in April of 1947. Since then, the prize has been presented by some of the most famous figures in modern literature: Robert Frost, Pete McKnight, John Ciardi, James Dickey, and, this year, Tom Wolfe.