6—The Davidsonian—March 20, 1981

Baseball team optimistic with batting on an upward swing

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Baseball Coach Charlie Slagle pretty well summed up this year’s 5-9 baseball team when he said, “Hitting has been very good, as we are batting around .300. Fielding has been rounding into shape after some trouble early... Pitching needs a lot of work, but there’s talent there, and can be a positive factor.”

With the exception of one or two games, hitting has been the team’s strong point. Catcher Phil Gordon, who batted .160 last year, has markedly improved at the plate and is flirting with .400. Allen Griffen, Joby Merten, John Haskell, Bob Barnes, and Cam Zurbruegg are all adding punch to the lineup with .300 batting averages. The team batting average prior to Tuesday’s game was .303.

But then crops up the key problem—the opponents’ batting average. Although the Wildcat batting average is hovering around .300, the opposition is batting over .350. The team’s trip to Florida over spring break started them off with a 0-5 record. They lost 5-1 to Armstrong, 13-7 to Central Florida, 12-0 to Rollins, and then again to Rollins in a controversial 11-10 game. In the second Rollins game, the Cats held a 6-2 lead in the top of the second, but the hosts came back to tie the score in their half of the inning, when a foul ball was called fair down the line and turned into a double. From there, Rollins went up 11-6. Davidson could only battle back to an 11-10 count.

The Cats then finished off the rocky 0-5 road through Florida by coming under the wrath of Florida 21-5. Once out of Florida, things picked up for the team. First, they swept two games at Armstrong in Savannah, Georgia. Guilford was the team’s first prey, as the Quakers fell 5-1. Then, in another batting duel, the Cats walloped Armstrong 18-11. Then the team came home and won a classic thriller over Slippery Rock. With the team down 12-11, Gordon hit a 2-out bottom of the ninth three-run homer to snatch a 14-12 win from the jaws of defeat.

Next on the team’s agenda was a twin bill with powerful Virginia Tech. The Cats dropped a 5-12 decision in the opener, but then the pitching staff came on strong, giving Davidson the upper hand in a tight 3-2 contest. The team then dropped a 2-7 count to Virginia Commonwealth. Then they came back to beat West Virginia State, 12-11, only to lose to the same squad, 4-10, on Monday. The skid continued through Tuesday, when Winthrop shut out Davidson 10-0.

Overall prospects for the team belie their 5-9 record. Senior Captain Cam Zurbruegg, a four-year player, said, “This is the best talent we’ve had since I’ve been here. We’re better at every position, but we’re not as deep as we have been. I think we’ll know a lot more about our team after the Conference games start.”

“We’re competitive in the Conference,” Slagle said. “We’re in the top four, but where we are in the top four depends on how our pitching staff comes around. We can hit with anyone in the Conference.”

Davidson faces its first Southern Conference opponent Saturday, when the Cats host VMI for a doubleheader. The Keydets have won only one Southern Conference game in the last four years, and unless they’ve acquired George Brett, a sweep is in order. Monday the team plays a key doubleheader with Conference power Marshall, and then West Virginia State returns for a game on Tuesday. Wednesday, the cross-county rivalry with UNCC heats up in Charlotte at 7 p.m.

Outlook for this year’s team is definitely optimistic with players like Academic All-American John Porter. So sit back, relax and enjoy a fine example of the national pastime—Davidson baseball. The Wildcats are strong hitters this year, batting around .300 overall.

Trackmen ahead despite hurdles

By CHRIS TIERNAN
Staff Correspondent

Opponents of the Davidson sailing team will have to reckon with far more than just the wind this spring. The Davidson team is preparing for a strong season with a new emphasis on regular practices and drills. In addition, opponents will encounter two returning All-District South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association (SAISA) sailors, Will Berson and Stuart Baskin. Berson and Baskin form the core of a young team.but reasonably experienced. The first home regatta will be March 28-29. Then, on April 18-19, Davidson will host the Spring Dinghy Championship, the SAISA tournament. The sailing team is, for the most part, student-directed. Captain Stuart Baskin, and assistants Berson and Eric Sanner lead the team, with coaching and advice from French Professor Hallam Walker. The team practices at least three days a week. Team leaders feel that frequent practices will produce more adept tacticians and skillful sailors. All-District sailors Berson, a sophomore, and Baskin, a senior, move their boats in races with mastery and precision few others in SAISA achieve. Repeat performances are expected from them. Other returning lettermen include sophomores Tracy Thompson, Bill Bankhead, and senior David Lyons. Davidson competes in the Northern Division of the SAISA, comprised of Duke University, University of Virginia, University of North Carolina, North Carolina State, Old Dominion University, and Christopher Newport College. The Cats expect to race in at least six regattas this spring. That number will increase if the team qualifies for national level competition. University of Virginia hosts the first regatta this weekend. This year each member has pledged to practice daily.

VOLUNTEERS IN MISSION
Contact: VIM
The VIM office of the United Presbyterian Church seeks students committed to church-related, ecumenical, interracial, social service ministries for summer and long-term assignments in the U.S.A. Room, board, and some stipend provided. Limited overseas opportunities for teaching English in Egypt, ecumenical possibilities in France and Germany, Thailand, and Japan.
475 Riverside Dr. -1126
New York, NY 10115.

Staff Correspondent
The Davidson track team opened its season last weekend with a double victory over a strong Washington and Lee team and a young Mary Washington team. Davidson outscored Washington and Lee 96 to 84 while Mary Washington failed to score any points. More than one-fourth of the Davidson point total was scored by junior Lance Sisco. Sisco won five events and ran on a second-place relay team. He took first place in the triple, long, and high jumps along with the 100-meter dash and 110-meter high-hurdle events. A well-conditioned group of the Cats’ long-distance runners swept the 6,000-meter run. John Davis, Robert Teer, Danny Armistead, and Bart Landess took the top four spots. McManus, Franklin Ivey, and Dan Armistead captured the first three spots in the 1,500-meter to secure Davidson’s domination of the distance events. Davidson also swept the long jump with Lance Sisco, Alec Driskill, Mike Jones, and Alan Rosier grabbing the top three spots in the triple jump. First place finishes by Charles Hooks in the discus and Ray Sinclair in the shot put helped to give Davidson a command of the field events. Coach Steve Frank said he was pleased with the wins and with the way the team has been performing up to this point. Competing without four of its top performers, the team had to draw upon its depth in both the field and the distance events to pull off the victories. This is a valuable addition in recent years, with the addition of football players from spring training to assist in the sprints and weight events. According to Coach Frank, the team’s goals are to improve upon the Wildcats’ last place showing in the Southern Conference Championship last year and to be successful in the dual meet season. A problem for Davidson track is that the team competes against eight teams that award scholarships to their athletes, while Davidson awards none. However, Coach Frank said he feels that this season’s group of athletes has the talent and the dedication to achieve the team’s goals. The Wildcats will run against five teams at Appalachian State this Saturday.

Camp Thunderbird
Employment at its Best
Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land.