Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"After all year,” said Ed Farell, “I have mixed reactions about the season. All of us—the coaching staff and the
team—were not satisfied with the final record; it was disappointing in that regard. We lost games we should have won,
particularly the Newberry game. The slow start really hurt us. When we were 1-3, we could very easily have been
3-1 if we had played well.

“What really impressed me about this team, though, was its unselfishness and lack of any morale or discipline problem. For
example, Brian Whitmire, with his being a senior, could have given up when replaced as starting quarterback. Ray Sinclair could
have done the same. But both never complained and really came through.”

After the sputtering first four games in which Davidson’s only win was a 27-20 thriller over Wofford, the ’Cats burst
out and trounced heavily favored Boston University 44-14.

“That was indeed the turning point,” said Farell. “From then on, the team improved with each game, and though we
never really were satisfied, we did evolve to a high level of respectability.”

The season’s second half also produced impressive wins over Hampden-Sydney and Catawba. An embarrassing 69-7 loss to Lehigh appeared to
indicate a Wildcat return to its earlier tactics, but Farell said, “Lehigh was simply a great team which played over
its head.”

Hampden-Sydney proved to be the patsies Homecoming opponents are supposed to be as Davidson rolled 42-14. The 'Cats ended the
year with a noble 52-29 win over highly regarded Catawba. Senior fullback Ray Sinclair produced a stellar performance, rushing for
a record-setting 260 yards, which gave him 1,001 yards for the season. The feat culminated a spectacular four-year career for
the professional prospect as he rushed for a brow-raising 3,085 yards.

“Ray is simply a great back,” said Farell. “He’s one of those players who will go right down to the
wire when the draft comes. And if he doesn’t get chosen, his chances as a free agent are excellent.”

The Catawba win also marked the exit of key contributors such as senior QB Brian Whitmire, whose spiraling passes found
the receiver with pinpoint accuracy, and senior linebacker James McClain, a fighting bull who bolted through blockers to make tackles
with remarkable consistency.

Looking into his crystal ball, Coach Farell foresees little change in football tactics: “Our competitiveness will generally be the same.
What people have to realize is that because of such high academic standards, approximately only 10 percent of high school
athletes are recruitable at Davidson. To get that competitive edge, we just have to recruit a little harder, practice a
little harder, and win the games we’re supposed to win. In the history of Davidson football—since 1896—the team has never
won more than seven games. And I see that as a very touchable goal.”

With much of the team returning, including the whole defensive and offensive lines, a solid corps of wide receivers, and
an explosive backfield, that goal could be reached as soon as next year.

by Scott Huie, '85

$12,000 for college.

Want a part-time job that doesn’t interfere with your studies? Or campus life? Give your local Army Reserve unit a
weekend a month and a couple of summers during college, and they’ll give you over $12,000 for college.

Up to $4,000 in college aid is yours just for joining most units. Another $6,000 for four years of monthly
weekends and two-week summer stints. Plus over $2,100 that you’ll earn during two summer training periods. All while you’re getting
the most out of college. And you don’t have to wait for graduation to enjoy the Army Reserve. There’s no
better part-time job in town.

For more information about the Army Reserve in this area, call your Army Reserve representative today.

Gift Certificates for Christmas giving, as well as various gift baskets.
