Homecoming ’81

Cats tame pussy-like Tigers

Homecomings are for the fun and enjoyment of everyone. That’s probably why football Coach Ed Farrell chose the Hampden-Sydney Tigers
as our Homecoming opponent, and everyone had lots of fun Saturday. Especially the football players in a 42–14 romp over
the visitors.

Actually, there’s not a whole lot to say about the game. Ray Sinclair scored on a TD scamper for the
first score, and not too long thereafter quarterback Brian Whitmire hit a long bomb to tight end James Jones for
a 13-0 lead. By halftime, it was all over, the Cats on top 35–0.

The game wasn’t a complete waste, however, as the team rolled up some big numbers. Sinclair had his first 100-yard
game this year as he ate up 122 yards on 19 carries. Sophomore halfback Bob Miller made several nice against-the-grain
cuts en route to 107 yards on 9 carries. The defense was awesome as they held the Tigers to one
whole first down in the first half. About the only team that feat wouldn’t have been impressive against would be
North Meck High School or some facsimile thereof.

So why did a team which has given the Cats fits for years suddenly roll over and play dead? Farrell
and company didn’t change strategies from the rest of the season, but changed things since the last time they saw
the Tigers. “We didn’t take Hampden-Sydney lightly.” In the past, it seems, the team had played a more conservative offense,
figuring on the Wildcat physical superiority to make up the difference. Not this time, and thus the score.

Lehigh next

Now the prime task for the football team is to get ready for Lehigh. Quite simply, what proved the major
problem against Hampden-Sydney—holding down the score and substituting—will not be of any concern against the Engineers. Lehigh has been a
Division I-AA national power for years, and this year is no different. They’re 5–2, and last week the Engineers shut
out Bucknell, 23–3, victors over Davidson, by a score of 18–0.

Lehigh runs the same offense as Davidson—the Wing T—but they rely more on a passing attack. The main target will
be Dan Ryan, a senior wide receiver with 10 touchdowns on the year. As if that’s not enough, the Engineers
pride themselves on defense. They held the same Bucknell offense that scored 23 points on Davidson to zero points. In
short, Farrell calls this Lehigh team a “clone” of the same team that blew the Cats out last season.

So what does the Wildcat offense have in store for the Engineer defense? Whitmire again gets the nod for the
start, and he’ll be going airborne, as Farrell figures his receivers to match up fairly evenly with Lehigh’s defensive secondary.
As for the ground game, “The primary way is to get it to Ray. But we'll have to give him
some daylight,” Farrell speculated.

Again the team will pitch the ball to Ray, in an attempt to string out the defense and get Sinclair
one-on-one coverage.

“I don’t have to worry about anyone overlooking Lehigh. All we’re worried about is going 4–4. We’ll have no problem
getting psyched.”

By Steve Soud ’84.

Leonard Walker had a field day as he turned on the afterburners and beat the outside for several long gainers.

Finding the gaps

Holes opened as if by magic for Bob Miller as he consistently turned short gains into long runs through heavy
traffic en route to 107 yards on nine carries.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981
