THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 24
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina

Faculty supports sex-blind admission:
By MAHMOUD SAYANI - Staff Writer

The faculty voted 39 to 31 Tuesday to pass a resolution requesting that the Board of Trustees establish a merit-based,
sex-blind College admissions policy. The Trustees established Davidson’s current 2:1 male/female admissions ratio in 1976.

Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole, who drafted the proposal last week, said it received less support than he expected. This was
probably because the vote came up at the end of the meeting, after some faculty members had left, Maydole said.
He added that several supporters of the proposal were absent.

Maydole circulated his proposal as a petition last week, collecting over 60 faculty signatures by Wednesday. Under the College Constitution,
the faculty must have a majority vote of its total membership in order to present a proposal directly to the
Board of Trustees. Maydole’s proposal did not receive a majority vote of the College’s 100-member faculty.

Maydole said, however, that Admissions Director John Griffith will ask the Trustees at their meeting this week to reevaluate the
current admissions policy. If the Trustees endorse Griffith, the faculty vote will appear as part of Griffith’s study, according to
Maydole. If the Trustees choose not to initiate a study, the faculty will present their proposal directly to the Board
at their fall meeting. Maydole said he hopes the Trustees would re-evaluate admissions policy “without being prodded, without waiting for
the fall.”

The proposal’s faculty opponents felt that “pragmatic concerns outweighed the moral issue” and feared “the College would become predominantly female,
making it a lesser school somehow,” Maydole said. French Professor Charles Dockery said he supported the proposal because the present
admission policy is “morally and ethically wrong.” Philosophy Department Chairman Earl MacCormac, who supported the proposal, cited two arguments effectively
used against sex-blind admissions. The first was that Davidson women generally do not win graduate fellowships. One of the (See
page 11)

May 8, 1981

Last weekend's Town Day festivities featured one of those special sights of summer—a smeared kid. (John Krotchko)

Key women’s issues face Trustees
By TIM WHALEN News Editor

The Trustees will discuss the student body’s 2:1 male/female admissions ratio and the need for women’s athletic scholarships in their
meeting this Thursday and Friday. Admissions Director John Griffith will ask the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees on
Thursday to authorize a study of the admissions ratio, and Athletic Director Gene Bingham will propose to the Trustee Athletic
Committee that the College grant basketball scholarships to women.

Griffith said he decided the male/female ratio needs study when he noticed that the number of female applicants to the
College has been steadily rising over the past several years while the number of male applicants has held constant. Also,
(See page 10)

Old South future unknown
Protest response pleases BSC
By FRANCES PALMER Assistant News Editor

The Black Students Coalition’s (BSC) protest of the Kappa Alpha (KA) fraternity’s Old South weekend had “good results,” according to
members of both groups. Both sides said airing their views helped to increase communication and understanding between them. Continuing to
improve BSC and KA relations is “the most important thing right now,” BSC President Andre Kennebrew said.

The protest began last week when the BSC issued a statement asking the KAs to discontinue their annual Old South
celebration, which traditionally features aConfederate uniform ball. The KA’s held Old South off-campus last weekend, according to previous plans. Other
students, faculty members, and administrators joined BSC members in the protest by wearing red ribbons. Kennebrew said he has mixed
emotions about the protest. He stressed that it was the “first time black students have decided to openly protest Old
South.” Kennebrew added that KA’s decision whether or not to hold Old South next year will measure the protest’s degree
of success. KA President Eric Crum said he does not know if the KA’s will continue the Old South celebration
in the future. He said it is an annual house decision, but “next year alternatives will certainly be considered.” Kennebrew
said he identified three basic reactions among students to the protest: 1) “You’re right,” 2) “Is this some kind of
game to draw attention?,” and 3) “This is black racism.” He feels the second response is a reaction to Dr.
Charles.

Endowment successes reduced by inflation
By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff Writer

The College’s three new investment firms have increased the endowment from $19,041,000 to $23,230,000 since they began its management one
and a half years ago, according to Business Manager Bob Currie. Adjusted for inflation, this $4.2 million increase reduces to
$609,292. The inflation rate from July 1979 to December 1980 as measured by the Consumer Price Index was 18.8%, according
to the Federal Reserve Bulletin. (See page 10)

Total: $23,136,178 (as of February 1981)

Ford saw international approval of Reagan's economic, foreign policy on tour
By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor Emeritus

A U.S. President visited the Davidson campus this week for the first time in over half a century. Former President
Gerald Ford attended a dinner Monday night in honor of former Charlotte mayor John Belk ‘43 and spoke later in
the evening before an enthusiastic audience in Love Auditorium. The ex-President’s visit was organized by former SGA President David Waddill
and sponsored by the SGA and the Stuart Scholarship Foundation. With this issue, the Davidsonian ceases publication for the 1980-81
school year. Publication will resume the second week of the fall term.

Ford, who has just completed a world tour, presented his views on foreign policy problems facing the new administration. He
said he detected general support for President Reagan’s economic policies among the foreign leaders he visited. “If we in the
U.S. don’t have a strong economy most of the nations of the world will suffer.” He also said the leaders
generally supported Reagan’s firm stance toward the U.S.S.R., though there was uniform “apprehension in regards to any military engagement between
the superpowers.”

Ford focused on three politically unstable areas of the globe: Poland, the Middle East, and China. He said he expected
the threat of a Soviet invasion of Poland to remain high for perhaps several months to come. The Russians are
“damned if they do and damned if they don’t,” he added. “In this instance, the Soviet Union faces a serious
dilemma. On one hand, there is a gradual undermining of Communist Party control. If this continues, with independent farmer and
worker groups getting stronger, the Communist party will inevitably lose its grip.

“If so, it is also inevitable that similar movements will develop in Czechoslovakia, Rumania, Hungary and, most importantly for the
Russians, in East Germany. Should this movement spread, the domination of the Soviet Union in Eastern Europe will come to
an end. This could lead to an eventual end— (See page 10)”
