Ken Wood and what he wants the Careers Office to do for students

There are a lot of erroneous notions around this college about who Ken Wood is and what he’s all about. To some students, thinking it’s someone else’s responsibility to get them the perfect job, he is no help at all. To them, he is an experiential idealist who has little sense of the practical side of careers (i.e., high-paying jobs) and who has a little office tucked away in the basement of the Union where students go to examine their “inner values and interests.” Ken Wood and the Careers Office are pretty much misunderstood and ignored by most of the students here. Those students, in the view of the Careers Office, are missing out.

Eight years ago, Davidson College received a federal grant to establish a co-operative education program with certain businesses. The college recruited Ken Wood to develop this into a broadly-based “career and experiential program.” He pioneered the “centering-venturing” program, a kind of life-work planning which has been widely acclaimed across the country. In it, self-examination (centering) is combined with experiential learning (venturing) in an effort to help students make career choices.

The office for Experiential Programs and Life-Work Planning was creative and innovative but had to deal with the constant problem of what students perceived it to be about. The old title of the office created an illusion for students that was not aligned with job placement. During the past three years, more and more students have explored the option of going to work after Davidson instead of going to graduate school. This, of course, has increased the difficulty of helping them find jobs. The new title, the Careers Office, is indicative of the new emphasis. The subtitles, though, still express the old ideas: Experiential Learning, Career Exploration, and Placement.

Lingering image problems

A new name has not solved everything, however. “We do have an image problem,” Ken Wood said. Students still think the whole program is idealistic, and that “they’ll find everything here but what they really want — a job.” Many feel that an emphasis on interests and values is not as important today as it was, say, in the ’60s. But Ken Wood thinks those people are wrong. He doesn’t want the college to think he couldn’t care less about job placement, but he sees his job as above all getting students to their strengths, their interests, and their values.

Within the three main divisions of the Careers Office, students are given a variety of opportunities to explore their career interests. The office (including Ken Wood and his assistant Susie Summers) provides written resources, counseling, life-work planning, internships, externships, and experiential learning programs like the Philadelphia Urban Semester Program. The Careers Office also provides “how-to” programs in interviews, writing resumés, job targeting, and job hunting strategies. In addition, they organize the visits of graduate schools and businesses. They do not, however, place students in jobs; they try to help students help themselves, to “tool themselves for a career.”

Focusing on the present

The Careers Office is not so much interested in success and happiness in the future as they are in helping students realize what they have to work with in the present. “The focus of our office is the here and now, and not ‘What am I going to do when I grow up?’” Ken Wood said. Getting jobs or getting into a good graduate school is important, but one has to know what it’s for andif he’s doing what he really wants to be doing. The purpose of all the experiential programs, internships, and career exploration is so that each student can “take a look at what he or she is and to test that out.” Wood said a student can make straight A’s at Davidson and still not know what he can, and wants, to do next. The Careers Office provides services, training, and opportunities for students to explore careers, experience alternatives, and secure jobs doing what they want to do in life. This is not an “idealistic goal,” they think, but is as practical a purpose as any. So many students have come to Ken Wood in the last eight years asking “What have you got for me?” that he has a ready answer — “The whole world is available.” 

By David Fleming ’83.

Equal access at Davidson? Admissions policies under evaluation

Last week Director of Admissions John Griffith met with the Trustee Executive Committee to present a progress report of a study he is preparing on Davidson’s admissions policies. Griffith said that at the meeting last week he recommended a procedure for establishing admissions policy in the light of the study. He said the Committee discussed his recommendation, but reached no decision. Griffith asked the Trustees last spring to re-evaluate the admissions policy, and they approved his proposal to conduct a study weighing the pros and cons of the current 2:1 male to female ratio. The study consists of compiling comprehensive statistics on athletes, minority students, women, alumni children, and international students at Davidson and using this data to formulate admissions policy. Griffith added that there is still some work to be done on the study, and that it should be made public when it is completed sometime next term. The Trustees, who make admissions policy decisions, will consider making policy changes at their winter meeting. If they wait until later to make any changes, the changes will not affect this year’s admissions. Griffith said admissions policy should be continually evaluated. Issues such as special consideration for alumni children and athletic admissions policy are long-standing. Other issues such as male/female ratio, and special considerations for minority and international students are relatively recent developments which need to be addressed. Griffith said, “I think that every single area that I have addressed on admissions policies is important and needs to be addressed. I think we are moving to a more comprehensive understanding of admissions policy.”

One reason for the re-evaluation of admissions policies by the Trustees is an indication by the faculty that they are not pleased with these policies. Last spring, the faculty approved a proposal by Philosophy Professor Robert Maydole requesting the Board of Trustees establish a sex-blind admissions policy. Griffith emphasized that a large part of the discussion on admissions is concerned with clarifying the two areas of admissions — policy and standards. While the Trustees control policy decisions such as the ones mentioned above, the faculty control academic standards for admissions through the Faculty Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid. One person from the Admissions Office and two faculty members review each candidate for admission. He added that faculty input is an important part of the admissions process. “I feel that the integrity of the faculty control of admissions is important to maintain.”

By Jeff Holland ’84.

Photo by Tim Boyer ’84.