r 10—The Davidsonian—March 20, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

After last week's Webster's new abridged version of the Brick Brothers and the Doughboys, we felt we owed you a
little bit longer work so we've decided to spend 15 minutes on this piece. We also have decided to add
our own special tidbit this week — an up-to-the-minute look at today’s newsmakers and the words they are making news
with. Here's the important scoop:

1. Ronald Reagan, when asked about the equity of his proposed economic policies— “We aren't acting totally in the interests
of the big oil companies. We want to help the small oil companies, too. We hope that Sinclair, Amoco, and
Phillips 66 will be able to strangle the market just like Exxon and Gulf do. We also don't want to
discriminate against coloreds; we respect them as equals and watch many NBA basketball games. Nancy has also quit donating money
to the KKK.”

2. Robert H. Knight, Governor and Coach of Indiana— “Hey, let’s not be afraid to fry a little flesh every
once in a while. Our only mistake was that we could have used Judy's body in a bonfire before the
Iowa game. As it is, we just wasted a totally burnable corpse."

3. Steven Judy, Indiana State Torch— “I never got anything I wanted in life, but I always did like fast
food. Now, I am a fast food. Anybody want some french fries?”

4. Alexander Haig, Secretary of S.W.A.T.— “It's ridiculous to say that El Salvador is another Vietnam. That's like saying a
camel is like a dromedary. All you have to do is go in tough and bomb them into a democratic
form of government. It worked in Korea and will work all over the world. Idi Amin told me it would.”

Now that you're enlightened on the world situation, we're going to move on to another totally original feature, Faces in
the Crowd. These people all have faces and they want you to know them so hey, get to know them
and maybe you all can get married and have a family and attend each others’ funerals.

FACES IN THE CROWD

Richard Terry: This senior from Atlanta, Georgia holds the world record for most golf balls held in the mouth at
one time, 11. This record was set at the Atlanta Country Club where Richard works in the summer as a
golf ball washer. During the school year, Richard counts the number of pickles that John Davis sucks on.

Joby Merten: This senior from Auburn, Alabama holds the Davidson record for most tests failed in a career, 36. This
number also represents the number of errors he made at shortstop last year and when divided by 28, it gives
his GPA. Joby attributes his record-breaking performance to an unfamiliarity with Southern ways and a rare learning disability known as
perplexia.

Karen and Richard Carpenter: This sibling singing duo has had hit after hit since coming to Davidson, their first being,
appropriately enough, “We've Only Just Begun.” They've followed that with “Close to You,” “Baby Loves You,” and “Mr. Postman Gets
Off in Rock Hill.”

FACES NO LONGER IN THE CROWD

Robert F. Kennedy
Martin Luther King, Jr.

Publications seek readers and material

By JENNY O’BRIANT Staff Writer and JOHN KROTCHKO Features Editor

Twice a year, The Davidson Miscellany and Hobart’s Park provide students and faculty—as well as outsiders—a place for their creative
literary efforts. The idle stacks of the two literary magazines in the Union and the library indicate weak student support,
however. Students are apparently too busy for extracurricular reading or simply not interested in what the two publications offer.

The Davidson Miscellany began in 1965 as a publication designed to give students the opportunity to read and critique literary
material from all over the country. By advertising in the Boston literary magazine The Writer, it consistently attracts many poetry
and prose submissions from the U.S., Canada, and the Caribbean that, according to Faculty Adviser Julius Winkler, “We can publish
only between five and ten percent of what is submitted to us.”

Hobart’s Park began three years ago as an outgrowth of “Inside Art,” a literary supplement to the Davidsonian. Unlike the
Miscellany, it is purely a student-run magazine. “Miscellany gets material from all over the country. We want to contrast that
by publishing material from the Davidson community only,” Hobart’s Park Editor Eddie Harrison said.

(Continued from page 1)

the school would be liable if a civil suit were to result from the shooting. Shackleford’s grandfather, Charles Coyle, said
that Shackleford pulled the gun to try and scare the people.off so that he could get away, and that the
gun went off “accidentally when he was jumped from behind.” According to Coyle, Shackleford “couldn’t believe it when he saw
the blood...he never intended to shoot anybody.” “Robbie was never in trouble with the law in his life...not even a
traffic ticket,” Coyle added. Leman said, “I could understand if it had been a ball bat, but not a gun.
There’s no other reason for that but to kill.” Students expressed concern about Shackleford’s quick release. Leman noted that there
was a story about a burglar who was being held on $20,000 bond on the same page of the Charlotte
Observer that carried the story about the shooting.

Winkler said that the publications are intended to be complementary. Hobart’s Park provides an outlet for student writers. The Miscellany
exposes students to contemporary creative literature, proving “that you don’t have to be dead 150 years to be worth reading.”
Neither magazine, however, has had a smooth existence. Objections to The Miscellany have arisen out of the fact that its
current operating budget of $4745 comes from Activities Tax Council funds. The Council appropriates the money Davidson collects in student
activity fees. Hobart's Park received $2700 from the Activities Tax Council last year. Since the money for both magazines comes
from student fees, some students think The Miscellany should be devoted exclusively to student poetry and prose.

Miscellany editor Dave Roberts disagreed. “We want to expose more students to different kinds of literature,” Roberts maintained. He also
emphasized that although there is a faculty advisor, The Miscellany is a student-run organization. Students read and critique the submissions.
Winkler added that not only does The Miscellany “give students experience in editing,” it does publish about ten Davidson submissions
a year, a little over half the total submissions.

Attar said, “His accomplices were home in bed while we were still at the police station making statements.” College President
Samuel Spencer said, “I’m very relieved that Leman came off as well as he did and was not killed.” Emergency
Medical Technicians Don Matthews and Skip Brown, both Davidson students, were on the scene and bandaged Leman’s wound and treated
him for shock. Spencer praised Matthews and Brown for their handling of the situation.

Hattie’s Night is held at F&M on the first Thursday of spring term. The party commemorates the night of April
27, 1975, when Hattie’s, Davidson’s most popular bar, burned down. Leman said, “My friends, the administration, and the athletic department
have all been very helpful.”

JOHN V. WASHAM
Dispensing Optician
Off Hwy 21, 1 mile south of Cornelius
Restaurant 892-7500
Eye glass prescriptions
Wide selection of frames.
Duplication of your present lenses.

The last issue featured works of three professors, two students, an alumnus, and a town resident. While The Miscellany has
no trouble finding submissions, this is not the case for Hobart’s Park. The Fall edition of Hobart’s Park was delayed
by lack of student input. “There was very little student participation,” Manager and Art Editor Sandra Davis said. “We had
to drag material out of people. I was very disappointed that no one wanted to make any contributions. By the
time we had enough material to get started, exams were here. We had to put it off until after break.”

Hobart’s Park is now collecting fiction/essays, photos, drawings, and poetry for the Spring edition. “We want stuff that is not
predictable,” Harrison said, “but anyone who is doing anything creative is welcome to submit material.” The staff plans to publish
on schedule this spring. The Miscellany, however, is already at the printer. Professor Winkler noted that the staff received “more
submissions this fall than in a long time.” Even if both publications are run smoothly, their relation to the student
body appears as tenuous as ever. Still vying for positive student response, both Hobart’s Park and The Miscellany are a
long way from improving their relatively obscure existence at Davidson.

“LISTEN WHEN YOU CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD”
“Everyone's concerned about confidentiality when they get birth control. At Planned Parenthood, everything you say here stays here. If you
think you need protection, call me before.” Sandra Gaddy, Counselor

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0041
MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.
Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

“COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD BEFORE”
