THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

SGA: Beast or Fowl?

SGA Presidential elections are this Tuesday. It is the ideal time to examine a question which is crucial both to the candidates and to how we relate to the SGA as students, faculty members, or administrators. The question is, what is the role of the SGA?

As a representative body, the SGA is in an unusual position. It has no real legislative power in college policy. The college constitution spells out only two specific powers of the SGA: it may charter student groups and distribute funds allocated to student groups. Hence, the question of defining its own role is all the more important.

Two approaches to this role are what I call the “actor” and the “advocate.” Contrary to traditional editorial practice, I will try here to delineate the two without passing final judgment. Both have their strengths and pitfalls.

The first approach is the “actor” approach. This year’s SGA under President David Waddill exemplified this approach. The emphasis was on initiating and organizing events. Take a look at the posted minutes of any typical SGA meeting. Understandably, the format of the minutes does not allow space for detailed analysis of issues. But the overwhelming emphasis on reports of events and activities, names, and dates indicates the focus of this year’s SGA. For the most part, they have planned projects instead of discussing campus issues like self-selection or minorities, or making policy recommendations to the Trustees. And they have done an extremely good job of it. They proved their worth as efficient organizers with the Telephonathon and will probably do so again with the upcoming SGA Admissions weekend and Career Symposium.

The “actor” approach is primarily uncritical. It raises money for the school without issuing statements on college financial policy. It courts Trustee approval without emphasizing areas of disagreement. When well done, this approach produces highly visible results. It is eminently pragmatic. Work within the limitations of SGA power, it says—don’t fight any hopeless fights. This is one view of the proper role of the SGA.

The second, or “advocacy” approach, emphasizes issues and recommendations rather than projects. Instead of organizing events, it stages discussions and debates, takes surveys, and issues statements. It examines serious issues like minorities, self-selection, or student participation in faculty evaluation and college policy-setting processes. It must be forceful in seeking, yet patient in awaiting, results. The pitfall of this approach is that issues are complex and frustrating, and views on them are often inconclusive. After all the talking, it is possible that we are left with the feeling, “Well, but what good does it all do?”

Should the SGA wage symbolic battles and be an advocate? Stuart Dorsett, like his predecessor, seems to lean toward the “actor” approach. Chip Legerton’s statements indicate he hopes to give the SGA more of an advocacy role. The line between the two candidates is far from clear-cut, however. Both, for example, seem to view issues like equal access admissions or a voting student member of the Board of Trustees as not worth the effort to tackle—a pragmatic “actor” approach.

Consider which approach is more appropriate to the Davidson SGA. Ask the candidates. The more members of the campus community have a clear view of what SGA does or should do, the more stimulating a year it will be for Tuesday's winner.

Good Job

Praise is due the members of Fannie and Mabel’s eating house and the Council on Campus and Religious Life (CCRL). F&M this week decided on a number of wise changes in the format of their Hattie’s Night party (see story, page 2). These changes will hopefully prevent violence like that of this year's Hattie’s Night from occurring in the future—and will make the party more enjoyable as well. The CCRL and the Dean of Students’ office handled their advisory role with admirable restraint. An autocratic approach of “change Hattie’s Night or scrap it!” would have been unfair and possibly counterproductive.

We hope the process of determining whether other Patterson Court eating houses should change their party formats will go as smoothly.

— Elizabeth Kiss

The Campus Forum

DERS thanks

To the Editor:

The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service would like to express appreciation and thanks to everyone present during Hattie’s Night for their cooperation. Furthermore, Nancy Cornwell’s helpful participation deserves much praise. She acted in a very professional manner in attending to Joe Leman.

DERSStaff Creation

To the Editor:

Last week Scot Myers wrote an interesting discussion of the conflict between Evolutionists and Creationists. Nevertheless, he, like so many others, presents as fundamentally opposed two theories which are not necessarily so. There is no inherent incompatibility between Darwin’s theory of evolution and a belief in God. Darwin himself was a Christian. His theory, which discusses the development of species through natural selection, makes no statement whatsoever about who or what originated this process. It is entirely possible to see God as the prime mover.

Furthermore, as most scientists will admit, there still are a few unexplained gaps in the time sequence of evolution. One could see God as entering in there. In addition, I, who would claim to be a Christian, can believe in both the Genesis account of creation and Darwin’s theory of evolution. Creationists and evolutionists talk about similar developments which occur in the same order. It is a question of time, not of events, which divides the two camps.

I feel that it is incredibly arrogant for us to assume that a day for God matches our concept of a 24-hour day. Furthermore, why can’t we see the term “day” as a metaphor for an age? This substitution in no way endangers the creation of all living things. I am sure that all Creationists would agree that God is omnipotent and infinite; if this is true, how can they limit Him to creating only within certain amounts of time which men have defined to be a day?

Anne Goodwin ‘84

Apathy II

To the Editors:

I’m here today to talk about apathy. When I’ve got to write y’all a letter just because you haven’t got enough to fill the column, that’s pretty bad. Whatsa matter? Hasn’t anybody got an opinion? There was plenty in last week’s paper to react to—like our short-lived basketball coaches, or Nick’s elegant exposition on religious narrow-mindedness. If you’re really stuck, you could take that stupid boy hates girl and vice versa argument (Frankly, I’m a little worried about being on a campus where males and females write the paper to say how moronic and physically repulsive the opposite sex is). Fight apathy! Find a cause—Nuke the Unborn Gay Whales!

Don’t Ask

Consideration

From the editors:

We would like to decry what we perceive to be an alarmingly inconsiderate attitude on the part of some sections of the Davidson College community. For two weeks in a row now, significant events have taken place on a Thursday afternoon or even evening! Obviously, there is no way that such news can be included in the Davidsonian. While Mr. Leman obviously could not schedule his event, it was the height of gall for Coach Kreese to not only punt us after one week, but to announce his decision on a Thursday afternoon in total disregard to our needs—a veritable slap in the face of the Davidson journalistic establishment. Even Coach Biedenbach was fired while we were gone over break. And every term, the Trustees meet the week after our last issue.

In the future, please try to schedule all shootings, firings, resignations, and other significant events by Thursday noon at the very latest. And write letters, would ya?

The editors

‘81, ‘82, ‘83, ‘84

DONALD CALDWELL, TIM WHALEN News editors

GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO Features editors

JAMES BARRAT Opinions editor

DANNY ARMISTEAD, JIM CROWE Sports editors

IVY GOODMAN Back page editor

POWERS, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER SCOTT, MARGARET JACKSON, ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN Editors

JEFF MANN Managing editor

DAVID MCCURRY Photography editor

WARREN LACKEY Business manager

SCOT MYERS Circulation manager

ANNE GOODWIN Assistant advertising manager

MARK BARRETT Executive editor

DAVID MCCURRY Production manager

FRANCES PALMER, MARY BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, ERIC VEST, LIZABETH HALL, LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, JULIE GIBERT, DAVID PRETTYMAN, KAREN SANDLIN, BERNADETTE WALTER, Production associates

BILL APPLETON, JIM RUMLEY, Staff artists

SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians

DAVE BANKS, Nihil

The Davidsonian welcomes letters. All letters must be signed. We will withhold names on request. Please bring letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union.

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic year (except holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 (office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription rate: $8 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.