SGA should work for membership on Board of Trustees  
Nick Graham  

Now that the election season at Davidson is underway, it might well be timely to offer some reflections upon the differences between student administration and government at Davidson and at home in England. Not that this is half so banal as it may sound at first: I am frequently asked my impressions of English and American university life, and if there is one way in which they would seem to differ significantly it is in that of student representation and involvement in issues. Perhaps it all comes down to essential differences in the systems of British democracy and American representational government, but at Cambridge University an integral part of student life was active and enthusiastic involvement in the Students’ Union (an organization which functions as a hybrid of the SGA and College Union at Davidson). I would argue that the absence of such enthusiasm for involvement is hardly to the advantage of Davidson students. Students in most Cambridge colleges enjoy voting representation at a level equivalent to Davidson's Board of Trustees. At present, students here enjoy no such effective forum.

In arguing that the SGA and student body should be working towards full representation at Trustee-level and that the SGA should open and popularize its own activities, I am well aware that I may be touching sensitive nerves, and wish to point out that I know whereof I speak. I had wide experience of student ‘political’ life and student-college relationships at home, and should there be anybody out there who views with horror the prospect of three voting student representatives on the Board of Trustees, I would ask them to consider the situation in British universities where, over the past five years, faculty members and governors have come to recognize that students have a legitimate case to be considered mature and responsible partners in the running, policies, and affairs of the institutions of which they are members. To give a specific example: at Cambridge’s Sidney Sussex College, four students (two undergraduates, one graduate, and the President of the Union) are voting members of the Governing Body of the College. The Union enjoys considerable popular support in its Open Meetings and its Assemblies. Most of the faculty welcomed this enfranchisement of students in 1978: they now value the input from the student body and regard the Union as the legitimate and responsible channel of student views and aspirations.

To those who view the SGA at Davidson as little more than a group of college-licensed mendicants, this possibility may seem slightly unreal. Yet, judging from its generally low profile in many areas of student life, the Association could probably profit from an extension of its activities and interests. In the case of Sidney, it would be fair to say that effective representation was the apex of a pyramid whose base was the Open Meetings—held three times a term—which were attended by large numbers of students. Here issues were discussed, policies formulated, and decisions taken on a diverse spread of topics which more or less closely affected student life. Beyond this, experience showed that the one sure way of achieving positive results, of effectively communicating with the college, was the speedy transmission of such issues to the relevant level of the pyramid—to College Council or Governing Body if necessary—where they could be fully aired before senior members.

The achievement of such a situation at Davidson—and my observations of the place suggest to me that it would be helpful to all sections of the college community—can hardly be affected overnight. One possible strategy which the SGA could adopt under this new leadership is the increased publicity of issues and challenges facing the daily life of the student body. This will be by no means easy—the elimination of apathy never is—but the gradual education of students into some degree of awareness reinforced by student forums and increased attendance at SGA meetings is a natural prelude to the enfranchisement of all members of the student body. Those who view this as an unrealistic idea either of the SGA’s nature or of ways to change it would, I think, be amazed by the upsurge of interest generated by the simple act of giving those members a concrete means of expressing their views on particular issues.

This is not to suggest that this process should be conceived of as in any way divisive. It is of course unethical and a waste of time to go out and create issues simply for the greater glorification of the SGA. However, a campus on which problems are not discussed but merely swept under the carpet and ignored is not necessarily a contented one. My own experience suggests that only when the apparatus exists for issues to be confronted honestly and openly by all members of the college community is that community genuinely stable, free from conflict and misunderstanding. The end of this process would ideally be the effective representation afforded by Student Trustees. At present, the SGA does not do much to maintain healthy links with individual Trustees and the SGA President has the status of an observer on the Board. At one time this was the situation at Cambridge too: the fact that this much has been achieved should not be taken as meaning that the process can be allowed to run out of steam. The SGA at present wishes to expand its horizons and be seen to be an effective, energetic champion of student interests.the student body. Achieving representation, taking a leaf from the book of the British Universities upon which this institution is at least partially modeled, is an important and worthy cause which the SGA ought to espouse with all its strength. This College would be a better place for such an achievement. Nick Graham is a graduate of Cambridge University in English literature spending a year at Davidson on an exchange scholarship.

Singerman

Although there has been wide-ranging controversy this year over the Educational Policy Committee’s recent curriculum revision proposal, only one provision in the EPC document provoked a minority report from the student committee members: the fourth-term foreign language requirement. This opposition is most certainly shared by a considerable number of Davidson students who are either simply not attracted to foreign language study, or who feel already hard-pressed to complete existing distribution and major requirements. It is difficult not to sympathize with students in this matter; any additional requirements are inevitably perceived as an imposition and, as such, disagreeable.

The question which must be addressed, however, concerns less the adoption of a mandatory fourth-term of language study than the rationale supporting the very existence of a language requirement, at Davidson or elsewhere. Assuming the propriety of required language study in any (self-respecting) liberal arts curriculum, we must be concerned mainly with the objective of the requirement: to ensure the achievement of basic functional proficiency in a given foreign language. Does the successful completion of three ten-week terms of French at Davidson, for instance, indicate an ability to communicate effectively in that language? In other words, is the Davidson language requirement viable with respect to its own rationale? Unfortunately, I do not think so.

To explain my reservations, let me first do a simple, mathematical comparison of the language requirement at Davidson and the standard intermediate-level requirement across the country. Normally, the acquisition of “intermediate” proficiency in a university curriculum is projected over a two-year period. The elementary course extends over a complete year, thirty weeks, meeting five hours a week for a total of 150 contact hours. The intermediate course covers a second year, meeting usually four times a week, for 120 additional hours in class. At Davidson, on the other hand, the elementary course lasts only twenty weeks (two terms), meeting five times a week for 100 hours; the intermediate course is shorter yet, lasting only ten weeks at five hours per week for 50 hours. The totals show that the Davidson student studies a language only 150 hours, compared to 270 contact hours, nearly twice the time, in other institutions with an intermediate-level requirement.

Even taking into consideration the high learning potential and seriousness of the typical Davidson student, the current curriculum stretches expectations beyond credible limits. We cannot expect students here to acquire in one year the linguistic skills learned elsewhere in two years. The effective acquisition of a foreign language depends in large part on time: time to learn grammar thoroughly, time to assimilate vocabulary, time to practice and perfect oral and written proficiency. What we call “intermediate proficiency” can, of course, be reached in a year if adequate time is devoted to language study. Dartmouth College, for instance, has the same three-term requirement as Davidson; they spend, however, fifteen hours per week on the language, for a total of 450 contact hours in the course of a year. Their program, although arduous, is highly popular among the students because it is “successful,” that is, effective. Students do not feel they have wasted their time.

There is a considerable number of Davidson students “who feel already hard-pressed to complete existing distribution requirements...” Can the situation be improved at Davidson? Addressing only the French program, with which I have become familiar, I would say most emphatically: yes. We have begun this term to systematically strengthen the elementary curriculum, adding two hours a week of practical oral exercises designed to increase active command of vocabulary and structures. If a third hour of oral drill is added in the fall, this will yield 160 contact hours in the two-term elementary sequence. With this solid background, students will be able to perform, we believe, at a significantly higher level in the current demanding French 20 course, which itself has been completely restructured this year.

There remains, however, the problem of the intermediate course of study, represented by the single term of French 20. Judging by my experience at Davidson this year, and in the light of ten years of teaching intermediate French elsewhere, there is little doubt in my mind that most Davidson students cannot attain standard intermediate proficiency in the current required curriculum. We just do not devote enough time to foreign language study at that level. An additional term of intermediate study is sorely needed at Davidson. While a fourth term would not produce native proficiency, it would be a substantial step toward ensuring the level of functional competency necessary to prevent the language requirement at Davidson from being merely an institutional bow toward the ideal of a liberal arts education.

Should the students here support a fourth-term requirement? No, they should demand it, as a necessary step toward a realistic, effective foreign language program.

Dr. Alan Singerman is a Visiting French Professor from the University of Maine at Orono.