Friday, 18 September 1981
by Roy Fuller ’83 and Anne Goodwin ‘84

Freshmen arriving at the hallowed halls of Davidson are often overwhelmed by the new faces and new demands on their time. With this in mind, your helpful Davidsonian staff interviewed nine college administrators who spent their undergraduate years at Davidson and asked them to reminisce a little. Even such worthy folks as these felt the pressures as well as the pleasures of being students at Davidson. Take heart: you too may become a college administrator...

College Archivist Chalmers Davidson entered Davidson in the fall of 1924. “When I attended the College, the Court of Control enforced a list of thirteen freshmen regulations. We had to wear fresh-caps,” Dr. Davidson said. “We also had to carry laundry and matches for upperclassmen. We weren’t allowed to walk on the grass... I didn’t really mind the freshmen regulations though. I wish they still had some of them.”

Some elements of college life, however, did require some adjustment. “It was difficult living with a roommate with different interests,” he admitted. “My roommate was very social. Late at night people were calling... I like to live on a schedule, and living in a dormitory made that difficult.”

During Dr. Davidson’s college years, chapel was required six days of the week. On weekdays the services were followed by a student assembly. “We met in Shearer Hall... They had long wooden benches with a rostrum up front. When we didn’t like the speaker we would all shift from left cheek to right cheek and make the benches squeak... We should have been more respectful, but some of the speakers asked for it.” Still, Dr. Davidson emphasized, “I don’t oppose required chapel. We got to know everyone. The school has never been as unified as it was in those days.”

Social life was different before coeducation. “We thought it was fine,” he said, “because we didn’t know we were deprived... In fact, our contacts with the opposite sex were more exciting because they were more rare.” Whenever a female did approach, the word ‘FIRE!’ echoed through the dorms to inform all the men of the rare event. When the college had a Weekend House Party, one was certain to see a bevy of belles from Converse, Queens, and Salem. Of course, no dances took place on campus because “this was holy ground.” But Dr. Davidson confessed, “We would lock the doors and dance to the victrola. That was very exciting to us.” Formal dances were usually held in Charlotte. At these dances, many men would wait in line to dance with the “prom trotters,” the well-known belles that made the circuit. “They had quite a following,” Dr. Davidson added.

Dr. Davidson has also observed academic changes in the college. “It’s much better now. Compared to other colleges in the South in the 1920s, we were not too far behind... Now, there is not a better liberal-arts college in the United States.”

C. Shaw Smith ’40
College Union Director C. Shaw Smith’s first year at Davidson was 1938. He transferred here after graduating from Oak Ridge Military Institute. Mr. Smith said although Davidson was “easier to get into in those days, it was not easy to get out. There was a larger span of talent in the students... [Now] it’s harder to get in and easy to get out.”

Daily chapel was still a factor in the late 1930s. “It got tiresome,” Mr. Smith said, “but over a span of years you really heard a lot of great stuff.” Chapel was a time for announcements as well as worship. “You could speak to everybody in those days... Chapel was fun in that I got to know everyone.”to know a lot of people, . . . and I got to know them fast . . . It wasn’t just to worship, it was to cavort together . . . . There was something about that gathering of the bodies and most of the minds that gave a tremendous community spirit. That’s what I miss most of all. . . . I wish there were a better traffic pattern for us where we could see each other frequently.”

ROTC had a greater presence on campus then. “Practically everybody took ROTC,” Mr. Smith said. “It served a useful purpose and we didn’t question it in those days. We lost many of our people [in World War II] because they were second lieutenants right off the bat. In the first group right after war was declared . . . the moment commencement was over, the seniors who were to be commissioned walked straight out of Chambers building onto the front lawn of Chambers, removed their gowns. They were in their uniforms and were sworn in as second lieutenants and went to war. Many of those fellows never came back. That’s one reason the plaque in the Union foyer dedicates this building . . . to the students who were lost in World Wars I and II.”

“Davidson is not what it was then, thank goodness,” Mr. Smith concluded. “Davidson has changed because the needs have changed. It serves personally.”

Samuel Spencer ’40 College President

Samuel Spencer began his freshman year at Davidson in the fall of 1936. “The thing I remember about the freshman year was coming in and being very unsure as to my position in relation to other students,” Dr. Spencer said. “I just remember walking into classrooms and wondering whether indeed I could successfully be a part of this community and at what level. Most of all, I remember it as a very interesting, exciting, and happy year.”

Other parts of initiation were the 13 freshmen regulations and the ominous Court of Control, which was “the upperclass body that punished the offenders who were caught. They met down in one of the literary society halls by candlelight in long robes and would call the offending freshman before them at night . . . If the freshman was utterly obnoxious, if he broke the regulations repeatedly, the worst stigma that could be put upon him was being ordered to wear a yellow cap instead of a regular freshman cap. A yellow cap freshman was a sort of pariah.”

Like Dr. Davidson, Dr. Spencer has a certain appreciation for the required chapel programs. “Leaving the religious value of chapel aside, it was the common experience of chapel every day together with the faculty and the student body . . . that gave a family kind of feeling that would be impossible with a student body twice that size.”

Socially, “we were what was later called ‘a suitcase campus’ . . . We had to go away for dates or we had to bring dates to the campus,” Dr. Spencer said. “The social life centered around the fraternities because we had nothing like the college union to plan events.”

The faculty was all-male when Dr. Spencer attended Davidson. “They were the type of people who were good examples for students in their personal lives. There were a good number of colorful personalities. Nevertheless, our faculty today represents more breadth and depth in their academic credentials. This faculty has traveled more and worked and studied in far-flung places . . . . They are more sophisticated. I would have to say Davidson is a better school academically than it was in those days. By far the best change I have observed is that Davidson as a whole has become less provincial and much more tolerant.”

Samuel Spencer, college president