Won en hit Regionals 2nd in State

The ‘Fat One’ leads men to fifth place showing in Charleston

The DC women’s cross-country team took top honors in last week’s Citadel Invitational meet in Charleston, SC. Junior Marian Hill
dominated for the Lady Thinclads, finishing first overall in 19:52 and setting the course record for the one-circuit five-kilometer trail.
It was Marian’s type of course, very flat and sandy, with only a few sharp turns. Although the speed on
this week’s top five was a little over one minute, the team looked very impressive overall, downing UNC-Wilmington 19-41 in
the dual meet score. Coach Sterling Martin called the race “perhaps the best team race of the season” and called
the 19-41 margin a “decisive win.”

Sophomore Tamara Foreman finished second overall in 20:00, running her typical slow start, fast finish style. Tamara noted that the
sandy final mile of the course was a disadvantage because the poor traction makes it very difficult to finish strong.
Freshman Sarah Patterson ran a strong race, crossing the finish in 20:22, fourth overall. Sarah has been a major factor
in the team’s success, placing consistently in the top three or four for the Cats. Jean Webb (20:32) continued her
string of good races, as she and Elisabeth Hargrove (21:19) rounded out the top five finishes for Davidson.

Martin cited the sixth, seventh, and eighth place finishers, Chris Seel (21:21), Gina McGee (22:09), and Sarah Todd (22:16), as
responsible for the team’s overwhelming strength, giving the girls “unmatched depth” in intercollegiate competition. Most Division II cross-country squads are
hard-pressed to field more than three or four talented athletes, even with scholarships available. Davidson has no female runners on
scholarship. This team could, in fact, be the best women’s team at Davidson this year, and hopes are high (as
well as mileage, confidence, and conditioning) going into the AIAW Region II meet on 2 November at George Mason University
in Fairfax, Virginia. They are second only to Wake Forest among Division II teams in the state and with a
strong team race in the AIAW meet they will certainly place well in the regional.

The Citadel has traditionally pounded the DC harriers in the regular season only to be embarrassed in the Southern Conference
meet, the season finale, the race that counts. Indeed the guys got “trampled” 23-33 at the hands of the Citadel
in the Citadel Invitational in Charleston, SC, last Saturday. In the overall results, the abuse was worse, as Campbell University
(which Davidson has beaten three times this season) finished first, and Davidson, fifth in the eight-way meet. The only bright
spot last Saturday was the one-point squeaker over UNC-Wilmington 29-28 in the dual meet tally.

Indeed it seemed as if no one but sophomore Frank “Fat One” Ivey was in form on Saturday. He paced
the Cat effort with a 33:35 for the sandy ten-kilometer course, fifteenth overall. Franklin was followed by ailing team captain
Randy McManus (seventeenth; 33:46), who was hampered by a large boil on his left hip which had to be opened
twice on Thursday and Friday. The “Old Man” could hardly walk on Friday, and was obviously in a great deal
of pain during the race. The injury has strangely healed in as many days as it took to develop, and
Randy will be back 100% to pace the Cats in the upcoming Southern Conference meet. Jack Smith ran a tough
race as well, fighting off cramps and opponents to finish 34:05, twenty-fourth overall. Danny Armistead and Garry Sullivan rounded out
the top five, finishing twenty-seventh and thirty-fourth overall in 34:26 and 34:41. It could be that some of those BLP
rituals aren’t helping their racing form much.

The conference meet on 7 November will essentially be the roughest meet of the season for the Cats, now 0-5
on the season against conference opponents. Running czar Sterling Martin seems to think that the team’s best bet will be
a close victory over the Citadel, with a few runners placing well overall. Conditions should be good—cool—and the course flat,
hopefully an advantage to our guys, who normally run well on hilly terrain. The race will be in Huntington, WV,
at Marshall University.

By John Hoots ’82

New Sailing Prints
Perfect for Framing

DAVIDSONIAN: Friday 30-October 1981

THE COPELAND HOUSE GALLERY
305 N. Main St.
892-3005

DRUGS

“Serving Davidson For Sixteen Years”
131 N. Main Street, Davidson, N.C.
892-0208

Mon. - Sat. 9 - 6; Closed on Sun.
Senior Citizen Discount 10%
