February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

Compensation (Continued from page 1)

Professors and students mainly with universities, not colleges, according to the report. Ninety percent of accepted applicants who turn down
Davidson attend a university. “If our tuition is high,” Epes commented, “we must be able to attract the quality of
faculty to give a superior education in order to justify the cost.”

The decline in assistant professor's salaries is “alarming,” the report emphasizes, because “Davidson’s faculty of the future is built through
appointments at the assistant professor rank. Inability to compete strongly for the best candidates at the profession's entry level may
mean a legacy of increasing faculty mediocrity for Davidson’s future.”

“Davidson's position has changed; we have consistently gone down as compared to what other schools pay their faculty,” Stell said,
“and we will continue to go down without changes.”

The change the report recommends is a greater effort toward expanding the College’s endowment. Any other type of change—tuition increases
or cutbacks in other areas of the budget, for example—will create “destructive internecine struggles,” the report warns.

“Other colleges like Davidson have achieved startling endowment growth in recent years,” according to the report. Therefore, the report recommends
that the College aim to quadruple the endowment in the next ten years, to $100 million. This would require annual
growth of 14 percent, 7 percent of which would be reinvested, as well as $5 million of new funds raised
annually.

The report pointed out that Davidson’s 1987 Program, which aims to raise $35 million for the endowment by 1987, has
$6.5 million targeted to faculty endowment. While the informally revised version of the program’s goals (in The Davidson 1987 Program:
The Case for Davidson) show increases in amounts targeted to building projects and the library, they show no increase in
this $6.5 million figure. This, too, the report recommends, should be increased to offset inflation.

The plight of Davidson’s professors is not unique, but a nationwide phenomenon. However, the report concludes, “Davidson has not historically
taken the average and the commonplace as a norm to measure its performance... We must reject suggestions that we lower
our sights—at least as far as faculty compensation is concerned.”

(Continued from page 1)

Salaries: Davidson versus other North Carolina schools (1980-1981)

$36,000
$30,000
$25,000
$20,000
$15,000

UNC-CH

KEY:
§ PROFESSOR
||| ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
[] ASSISTANT PROFESSOR

Subscriptions to The Davidsonian $8 a year Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036

...and the name of the professor who proposed it.) History Professor David Shi described the indefinite suspension of the EPC
proposals as an “unnatural death,” since the faculty never truly resolved the issue by voting to accept or reject the
proposals.

Zimmermann guessed that one reason for faculty opposition was the degree of revision the EPC proposals had undergone since they
were first released in October. Religion Professor Alexander McKelway noted that the EPC proposals had been revised in such a
manner that they did not significantly differ from the present curriculum. “They really didn’t do much,” McKelway said, so the
advantages of implementing them did not seem to offset the difficulties entailed in changing the curriculum.

Zimmermann does not anticipate that any component of the EPC proposals will come up for consideration in the near future.
The EPC is now working with department chairmen to consider curricular change on an ad hoc basis. “The EPC's goals
have been all along the substantive review of the curriculum,” Zimmermann said. “The EPC is grateful for the serious consideration
its proposals received.”

—A lunch fast food and deli foods line
—Breakfast eggs cooked to order.

Both the two ARA officials and Currie declined to discuss the proposal in any detail. Currie said an ad hoc
committee of top Davidson administrators will evaluate the ARA proposal and then make a recommendation to College President Samuel Spencer.
Currie said he hopes the administration can reach a final decision by mid-April.When Currie asked the Food Committee for its
suggestions on what kind of food service it wanted, Ivey replied with a question: "Can you give us a definite
answer yes or no—will the business office accept bids from other companies?" Currie answered, "All of the decisions have not
been made... I am fully aware of your interest in getting outside bids." Ivey maintained that Davidson must begin seeking
bids now in order to give companies enough time to develop a proposal. He later said most companies need two
to three months to draft a bid. Later, Currie said, "I was not under the impression it would take two
to three months... I've assumed that anyone who wants our business would give us a proposal when we need one,"
Currie said. Schwabeland said the ARA proposal was drawn up in about one month. There is a clause in Davidson’s
contract with ARA prohibiting the College from hiring any former ARA employees for six months should the College get rid
of ARA. Currie said the clause would not be an obstacle to changing food services since ARA would probably not
invoke it. Packer said ARA uses the clause almost exclusively for protecting its investment in supervisory personnel and could not
foresee its use at Davidson. Committee member Hunter Monroe said accepting other proposals would keep ARA from becoming complacent. He
contended "the main improvement [in ARA service] recently has been... because of the question of next year’s contract." ARA's new
Davidson Dining Director Wes Goodman said recent improvements in ARA food came because former Director Barry Cheatham "did a lot
of bad things." He said the timing of his arrival last week "was not intentional," and was not specifically directed
at keeping Davidson’s business. Committee member and ARA employee Dale Carter complained that ARA food had not been as bad
as other committee members maintained. The members made it sound as if "we’re eating spoiled rabbit pie from Harvard in
1871," he quipped.

Summer job openings for camp counselors at Camp Sea Gull (boys) and Camp Seafarer (girls). Serving as a camp counselor
is a challenging and rewarding opportunity to work with young people, ages 7-16. Sea Gull and Seafarer are health and
character development camps located on the coast of North Carolina and feature sailing, motorboating, and seamanship, plus many usual camping
activities including a wide variety of major sports. Qualifications include a genuine interest in young people, ability to instruct in
one phase of the camps’ programs, and excellent references. For further information and application, please write a brief resume of
training and experience in area(s) skilled to Don Cheek, Director, Camps Sea Gull/Seafarer, P.O. Box 10976, Raleigh, North Carolina, 27605.

Endowment (Continued from page 1)

1987 Program's $6.5 million goal for faculty endowment had not been adjusted for inflation, while other program goals such as
building construction, had. College President Samuel Spencer said the other goals were adjusted only because set figures were available. "We
realize we have to get more (for faculty endowment)," Spencer said. Acting Vice President for Development Julius Melton was out
of town. Corporate Development Director Mike Daisley said that increasing the faculty endowment is "uppermost in our efforts." The College
is now working to establish a $1 million Presidential discretionary fund for faculty development, Daisley said. The fund would provide
$500,000 annually for faculty research and study. In 1977, the Hewlitt and Mellon foundations awarded Davidson a challenge grant, giving
the College three years to raise $600,000 in order to obtain the $200,000 grant. $500,000 is already in, Daisley said,
and he is hopeful of obtaining the last $100,000 soon. This money, along with a deferred gift of $250,000, will
be sufficient to establish the endowed fund. Daisley also said the College is working to pare down office budgets to
the bare minimum in order to be able to use more current funds for compensation. In the long run, Zimmermann
said, the spiral of inflation must end before the College can truly solve the problems with faculty compensation. Academicians should
play a large role in shaping political and economic policies which will improve their institutions’ financial position, Zimmermann said.
