Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Here is DB & SS with a reflective account of homecoming weekend:

The overall success of such a fun-filled weekend began with the Highland Games. You guessed it, — sponsored by that
witty crew, the Union Board. Spectators were overwhelmed by the antics of kilted step-tutors, snack-bar employees, KA eating house members,
and Davidsonian film reviewer Nick Graham himself. The campus foot race was the highlight of the afternoon, beginning at Gus’s
and finishing up in Rock’s room. Everyone came out a winner with only one disqualification awarded to Eric Long for
running the race in Pakistani clothing. All winners received a hot air balloon ride. Balloon furnished by Rusk’s Finest, hot
air supplied by Balcom and Geyer. Nice disco!

Campus events were numerous later in the weekend, beginning with the Davidson vs. Hampden-Sydney football game and ending up with
the Davidson vs. Hampden-Sydney fundraising carnation sale. When asked about the results, hall counselor Carol Roche remarked, “Such an endeavor
has produced much hall unity and has increased morale throughout my girls. We’ve received an extended invitation from the SPEs
for an upcoming pajama party, but have been forced to decline the offer due to conflicting Bible studies and DCF
revival meetings.”

We’ve considered the exploits of all non-Greek members of the Davidson community, and now it’s time to look at the
weekend for the pledge kids.

1) Homecoming at PiKA. The weekend begins with nineteen tons of sand along with the White Cliffs of Dover being
deposited in the PiKA parking lot. By Sunday afternoon at four o’clock, things have been moved into the house and
the party is ready to go. At this point, the whole fraternity along with their dates gather around the bathtub
for a speech by soothsayer Johnathan West entitled, “How I Can Be Such a Slob and Still Get In.”

2) Homecoming at KA. Those crazy disciples of Robert E. Lee presented the Spongetones once again at the house for
the entertainment of the brothers. Admission was only two dollars for brothers with a reduced rate of $3.99 for those
with dates. During one of the band’s breaks, KA president Eric Crum presented senior Richard Strader with the Stonewall Jackson
award, which is given annually to the non-KA most likely to be considered a KA by the campus community. Ebbing
with pride, Strader replied, “This is just the beginning, my next endeavor is Ann Hurt.”

3) Homecoming at SAE. Davidson College has certainly changed over the years. With the addition of a new Commons and
seven trillion bricks, none can deny that Davidson has undergone quite a facelift. Obviously, the word has not moved far
enough down the hill to the SAE house. Once again, this blue-blazered crowd brought in a former back-up group for
Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes to spin the tunes for the brothers. Those visiting the house quickly realized that
anyone residing in the eastern United States was invited to the party. Further details can be obtained from Jane Alexanian,
Kathy Koolcen, or Connie Terry. For those of you who did not have dates, rest assured that Dave Cove will
bring back his sister for midwinters.

4) Homecoming at Phi Delt. Due to the escalating construction costs of fraternity bleachers, the Delts were unable to have
Homecoming this year. However, they did hold another truly successful air guitar contest Saturday night after the game.

5) Homecoming at Sig Ep. Still smarting from the cost of the successful Chairman of the Board concert, the SPEs
were also unable to celebrate Homecoming. However, after the game Saturday, Ralph Taylor did narrate a film of the Whiskey
Sour Pajama Party that attracted a few earlier this term.

6) Homecoming at Fiji. Again, no Homecoming as all the brothers passed out from Thursday night’s “Up in Smoke” party
and failed to regain consciousness until after lunch on Sunday.

Next week: Doughboys return with flickerball predictions and up-close and personal interviews with individuals who have produced unsurmountable LSAT Board
Scores. Also: Davidsonian editor John Seman receives commendation from The National Enquirer on his journalistic format, and Russ Summerell will
conduct a seminar on “how to rid yourself of an unwanted date.”

---

The guy from the Dean’s office was just clearing out when Jenny Widegrin, my small group treasurer, testified that noise
ruined the lecture. When President Dean Willman called the guy a troublemaker, it was a sign of things to come.
In 15 minutes, we rounded up some dead animals. Better get changed, Tul. See you at 6:00.
