2—The Davidsonian—April 24, 1981

News at a Glance

Former President Gerald Ford will speak at John M. Belk Day on May 4. He will speak in Love Auditorium at 8:30 pm. Free tickets will be available at the Union Ticket office starting this week.

Davidson ranks first in North Carolina and 16th in the nation among colleges and universities in the number of alumni serving in the 97th Congress. Five Davidson Alumni, James G. Martin R-N.C., Charles G. Rose, D-N.C., Lawrence P. MacDonald, D-Ga., Wyche Fowler D-Ga., and John L. Napier, R-S.C. now serve in Congress. Yale, with 16 alumni congressmen, has the greatest number of alumni currently serving in Congress. Rounding out the top four are Harvard, University of Texas, and UCLA.

Patterson Court and off-campus fraternity officers for next year are:

ATO: President Ralph Lasley; Treasurer Mark Phillips; House Manager Jeff Herrin; Social Chairmen Ivy Goodman and John Krotchko; Assistant Treasurer Lindsay Biddle.

Emanon: President Keith Hearle; Vice President Ellen Gyauch; Treasurer George Webster; Social Chairmen Eric Frey and Wendy Rider.

ETC: President Sandra Davis; Treasurer Geoff Spencer; House Manager Wes Bean; Social Chairman Boe Young.

F&M: President Joni Seehorn; Vice President Lisa Buckley; Sec./Treas. Scott Haight; Kitchen Manager Bob Trobich; Social Chairmen Pam Rew and Melissa McKeithen.

KA: President Eric Crum; Vice President Hill Stockton; Secretary Steve Shelby; Treasurer Elliott Stotler; Assistant Treasurer Walt Dean; Social Chairmen Charles Douglas and Jim Crowe; House Managers Dave Proffit and Alec Driskill.

PAX: President Mike Healy; Vice President Warren Overbey; Treasurer Bruce Wallace; Assistant Treasurer Robbie Singleton; Social Chairman Caryn Hoskins; House Manager Ricky Watson; Board Manager Lee McCormick.

Phi Delta Theta: President Mike Iordanou; Vice President Gary Sims; Secretary Brian Whitmire; Treasurer Bill McFayden; Social Chairmen Dana Bolton and Alan Brady; House Manager Wayne Payner; Pledge Master William Price.

PiKA: President Terry Wade; Vice President Jonathon West; Treasurer Jim Evans; Assistant Treasurer Eric Sanner; Secretary Rick Gergoudis; Social Chairmen Mike Nobel and Craig White; Pledgemaster Ed Whitesides.

Rusk: President Shannon Walters; Vice President Mebane Atwood; Sec./Treas. Anne Hockett; Social Chairman Lanier Brown; Social Assistant Katy Tully; House Manager Betsy Thomas; Kitchen Manager Knox Douglass.

SAE: Officers will be elected in May.

Sig EP: President Ralph Taylor; Vice President Jeff Wright; Corresponding Secretary Geoff Spencer; Recording Secretary Bob Whalen; Social Chairman Doug Austin; House Manager Don Glew.

Fiji: President Jim Troutman; Historian Rip Singer; Social Chairman Dale Culpepper; Treasurer Rob Gillison; Corresponding Secretary Bob Trobich; Recording Secretary Jim Cheek.

The Hair Cottage
Creative hair cutting for men and women
Owner/Stylist: Jane Schenk
1757 E. Rocky River Road
By appointment only

Copeland House Gallery
CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES
FINE PRINTS AND POSTERS
Acrylics by Katherine Wolf Webb
Open reception Sunday April 26 4-6 pm
DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
305 N. MAIN STREET
892-3005 892-5107

Funding sought for athletic complex
By MAHMOUD SAYANI
Staff Correspondent

Davidson is still looking for enough money to finance its proposed Athletic Complex, a project the College has been planning since 1976. Former Development Director Duane Dittman told The Davidsonian in October 1979 that the College would select an architect for the building by the end of the year. Yet the College has still not chosen an architect, and has not decided exactly where the Complex will be built or what facilities it will contain. Trustee Athletic Committee Chairman Perrin Anderson said, “Money is the basic problem.”

Cartmill said the administration asked him to scale down his original proposal for the complex in order to save money. Even so, Cartmill said the complex will cost considerably more than the $3.5 million the College had estimated in 1979. Anderson said the Trustees will be discussing the complex at their meeting in early May and would probably make a definite decision on what the complex will contain “in the next few months.” Cartmill’s original proposal called for...a building containing three basketball courts, six racquetball courts, two squash courts, six indoor tennis courts, an indoor track, and NCAA regulation swimming and diving pools. Cartmill said he is now proposing that the complex contain the swimming and diving pools, an indoor track, and facilities for dance, gymnastics, and badminton. He said he has not yet abandoned hopes of getting all of the facilities called for in his original proposal. The complex will probably be built on the practice football fields, Cartmill added. The complex is one of the major goals of Davidson's 1987.

By SUZANNE DICKEY
Staff Correspondent

There are 64 students on the waiting list for College housing for next year, according to Housing Director Bill Bolding. Bolding said that 40 women and 24 men are currently waiting. An unusually large number of women did not get rooms in last week’s room lottery, Bolding said. Normally only eight to ten women get on the waiting list. Last year there were 28 men and 10 women on the list. Bolding said the list is longer than he expected because there were fewer requests for off-campus housing and fewer students going abroad or going on leave. Rooms will become available through the summer as students finalize their housing plans for next year, Bolding said. He does not expect any students to be forced into triples. He will know by tomorrow whether or not the college will open up more perimeter housing to seniors to alleviate the shortage in women’s housing. By tomorrow the Housing Office will also have a list of off-campus housing available for interested students. The room drawing lottery went smoothly and unusually quickly this year, Bolding said. The freshman class, which took the longest, was done in two and a half hours. In the past, the lottery has lasted past midnight.

Food, money stolen from Patterson Court
By BOB FLEMMA
Staff Correspondent

Thefts of food and money have occurred at two Patterson Court eating houses in the last two weeks. Fifty-six steaks worth about $150 were stolen from the ETC kitchen two weeks ago, according to ETC House Manager Wes Bean. The incident, reported to Security Chief Jackie Hughes on Friday, April 10, is thought to have occurred that Thursday night. Sometime between last Thursday and Saturday, PiKA fraternity was robbed of around $100. Hughes says that he has no suspects in either of the cases. As a result of the ETC theft, Bean said the house decided to abandon its “open kitchen” policy. Shortly after the incident, locks were installed on the kitchen and refrigerator doors. On the court, ATO, F & M, SAE, and Emanon have open kitchens. PiKA, Rusk, KA, and Phi Delt do not. Hughes said this is the only food theft he has known of in the past. He did say, however, that one year someone broke into a house and ate their ice cream. According to PiKA House Manager Jonathon West, the cash was taken from a cabinet which also contained checks. The checks were left untouched. West said the $100 was proceeds from a T-shirt sale. However, he said the house is planning no major changes in security.

Another outstanding job by BARGER - CONSTRUCTION
Post Office Box 30
384 North Main St.
Mooresville, NC 28145