Emergency rescue in trouble

by Mahmoud Sayani

Student interest and activity in the Davidson Emergency Rescue Service (DERS) has been waning in the past two years, according
to squad chief, senior Skip Brown, and Squad Advisor, Campus Police Sergeant Harold Cook. Skip hopes to rejuvenate the service
this year and increase its activities. DERS now has only four qualified Emergency Medical Technicians (EMT) and four volunteers on
its squad.

Skip and Sergeant Cook said DERS needs more student members—volunteers who would take an EMT course and who would be
ready to respond to calls to apply their training to medical emergencies on campus.

Sergeant Cook is the most experienced EMT on campus, and he was instrumental in the founding of DERS in 1978.
He said serving on the squad has much to offer and “what I get out of it is helping people—both
the squad members and the injured.” Skip has twelve new students signed up to join DERS but needs at least
fifteen before Central Piedmont Community College will agree to give an EMT course here at Davidson. He hopes to have
enough students to hold a course this winter.

DERS operates under the authority of the College Infirmary. The Infirmary is in charge of all medical emergencies involving Davidson
students and faculty. A staff doctor is at the infirmary from 1:00 to 3:00 pm every day. Staff Doctors Ronald
Hunt, William Williams, and David Spees are also on call at their office on Main Street near the railroad bridge
during regular office hours, 8:30 am to 5:00 pm. They carry a paging beeper on a rotating schedule for the
rest of the day and night. A doctor can be reached after office hours at 332-4698.

When a student calls the Infirmary about a medical emergency, the infirmary pages the two EMTs on duty, and they
go to the accident with a comprehensive first aid kit. The EMTs assess the situation and render whatever first aid
is necessary. “EMTs are trained to handle almost everything,” Skip said, “and DERS has all the equipment EMTs are qualified
to operate.” Meanwhile, the Infirmary contacts the doctor on duty.

The North Mecklenburg Ambulance Service (NMAS) provides ambulance service if it is needed. Both Dr. Hunt and Sergeant Cook complimented
NMAS on its immediate response to calls from the College. “NMAS usually takes about 2 to 5 minutes to get
to the scene,” Cook said, “and the men are very well-trained.” An ambulance trip costs $70.

Patients are taken to Huntersville Hospital or, in case of a more serious emergency, to Presbyterian or Memorial Hospital in
Charlotte.

The College Infirmary has a car that is used in minor emergencies for transportation to Charlotte. “The car is at
least ten years old and was donated last year by Zach Long. It has been worked on a few times
and is supposed to be in working condition now,” according to Infirmary nurse Avon Goodson.

DERS handled about 200 to 250 cases in its peak year, 1979, according to Sergeant Cook. Skip said last week
the EMTs had four calls. Besides medical emergencies, DERS is responsible for helping out at civil emergencies, such as bomb
threats, fire alarms, and nuclear accidents.

DERS meets at the police building near the laundry every Sunday at 5:00 pm to discuss calls during the past
week and to hold training sessions for new members. All interested students are invited to come by this Sunday.

by Roy Fuller ‘83

“Everywhere ugliness has its beautiful aspects.”
— Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec

After a week of nominating and a week of voting, the results have been tallied: Senior Frank Myers and sophomore
Scott Otto have been elected the “Ugliest People on Campus.” Frank and Scott received their coveted titles by “raising” the
most money for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. Ninety percent of the money donated during the week-long election was placed in
the jars bearing the co-UPOCs’ names. Along with their titles, Frank and Scott received a keg, a year’s subscription to
Ugliman’s Quarterly, and the opportunity to represent their school in further competition. (The keg was donated by Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen.)
If for any reason Frank and Scott cannot fulfill their duties, the first runner-up, junior Eric Fichtner, will replace them.
Eric won last year’s Ugliest Person on Campus balloting.

The Alpha Phi Omega service fraternity sponsored the fund-raiser. They raised a total of $120 dollars for the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation. The amount was down from $200 collected during the last election. Anyone interested in making a donation should contact
junior Jim Hooten (6157) or junior Roy Fuller (6431). APO hopes to hold the next election in the spring. A
“Best Dressed Person on Campus” election may be held at that time.

Ugly mugs

Contest funds go to cystic fibrosis

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981.
