The Paul Masson Wine Company

vows, “We will sell no wine before its time.” Fortunately for Mr. Masson and company, he has the choice of
when to sell his wine.

But for Bobby Hussey and Company — the Davidson basketball team — wine sales began 30 November, whether the product
had reached its time or not. Like good wine, though, the team has improved with age and should continue to
do so throughout the season.

Hussey looked over his carefully-tended vineyard in an exhibition game against the Australian National Team on Thanksgiving eve. The Aussies
entered the game with wins over East Carolina and Iona under their belts, not to mention a game in which
they lost to Virginia Commonwealth by only four points. The Cats weren’t quite ripe for the occasion, however, as they
dropped a 71-76 decision.

The team was coasting along with a six-point lead late in the game when suddenly everything went sour. With a
three-bucket lead and the ball and only 4:42 left to play, the Wildcat offense turned the ball over to the
visitors on three consecutive occasions, and the Aussies capitalized. Altogether, Davidson dished out 29 turnovers in the contest, and naturally,
the coaching staff was a tad disturbed with that statistic. Vintage or not, the team began its season Monday night
in Charlotte against NC State. The Wolfpack gladly played the role of wine pressers quite well as they walked all
over the Cats 77-56. The only difference: the Pack wore Nikes instead of going barefoot.

Against State, the team was downright tentative, especially in the first half. “Coming into the NC State game, having seen
them play twice, we knew that they played a great transition game. That style of play is not to our
advantage, especially with our lack of depth,” Hussey said. After 29 turnovers a few days before, the game plan was
to settle the ball down and keep the Wolfpack from running. The concept was fine, but it suffered through flaws
of execution — the team overreacted. They set the pace too slow and forced some passes inside that led to
early turnovers.

“We felt that if we could keep it to a 10-point game with five minutes left, we could pull it
out,” Hussey speculated. Aside from the early turnovers, “They scored 14 points on the offensive boards, so it wasn’t totally
a lack of offense.” The team kept defense to a minimum, and senior post man Jamie Hall (20 pts., 7
rebounds) noted, blocking out was “nonexistent.” State won the first half rebound battle 20-8.

In the locker room at halftime, Hussey corrected what he identified as his mistake — the tentative play of the
squad. The Wolfpack already had a game to its credit (a narrow win over Campbell), was more confident in its
game, and Hussey told his team just to go out and play. The team started the second half down by
20, and they finished the game down by 21, having played State almost even in the second half. Still, the
team suffered more than its share of second-half breakdowns. “We didn’t block out as well as we would have liked,”
Hussey commented. “We went back over the game films, and the old axiom is true: ‘A picture is worth a
thousand words.’”

The team returned from the uninviting Coliseum (or more appropriately Mausoleum) to the more raucous wine cellar known as Johnston
Gym to bottle up the Baptist College Buccaneers. The Bucs (an independent Division I team) did their share of bottling
as they corked up the Davidson transition game with an effective 2-2-1 zone press, the same type the Cats employed
to keep the Pack from running roughshod all over the Mausoleum court.

Although Hussey was far from satisfied with the Wednesday night performance, there were some bright spots. Sophomore forward Kenny Wilson,
who has played all 120 minutes of the three games, exploded for 24 points (10 of 14 from the field,
four for four at the line) and hauled in seven caroms. “How could you not love him?” queried Hussey. “You
ask him to go through a brick wall, he goes through two.”

Second high scorer was junior post man Cliff Tribus with 16 points. He was 8 for 12 from the floor.
“He’s been trying really hard. He’s had an up and down career and really wants to have a big year.
About a week before the Australian game he injured his knee, and it slowed him down,” said Hussey. Against Australia,
he was 3 for 3 and against State 3 for 10. All that turned around Wednesday. Six of his points
came on slam dunks, one a beautiful offensive rebound stuff. He tied for game-high rebounder (with John Carroll, of all
people), snagging eight misses, and cleanly blocked one shot. Not bad for a white boy.

Despite the welcome addition to the win column, the team was as yet “unsure” in Hussey’s words. “They want to
do well so badly they get a little uptight and play too quickly. It'll work itself out. When? Hopefully by
January. Mid-January at the latest.”

More wine, however, must be sold before January. Especially tomorrow night at NAIA standout Erskine. Erskine boasts a well-disciplined team
of average height which Hussey says is more methodical than the Citadel.
