Campus Events

Friday, March 13

8 p.m. Film: Douglas Houchens’ The Gallery. Movie

8:15 p.m. Male Chorus Spring Tour Concert

8 & 10:30 p.m. Pop Film: Coming Home, Love

Saturday, March 14

9 p.m.-1 a.m. Concert-Dance with Steel Pulse, England’s #1 Reggae Band. Tickets on sale for $3 in the Union ticket
office, 2-5 p.m.; $5 at the door.

Monday, March 16

10 a.m. Professor Frithjof Bergmann will speak on “Hegel and Hegelianism.”

3 p.m. Professor Bergmann will present Part I of his lecture on “Two Faces of Freedom.” Part II will be
Tuesday at 10 a.m., 900 Room

6 p.m.-8 p.m. Freshman Ice Cream Social, ROTC Dept., 900 Room

7:30 p.m. Professor Carl Cohen, Visiting Mellon Distinguished Professor of Philosophy from the University of Michigan presents “Democracy: Maybe,” DCPC

9 p.m. Vesper Concert: Professor Wilmer Welsh, organist, performing his own works with soloist Dave Banks on clarinet, Joanna Hunt
on oboe, and Beth Herron on French horn.

Tuesday, March 17

10 a.m. Part II of Professor Frithjof Bergmann’s lecture “Two Faces of Freedom,” Gallery

3-5 p.m. Political Science Professor Mary Thornberry discusses “Challenges to Democracy,” Morrison Room

8:15 p.m. The Davidson Wind and Jazz Ensembles present their Spring Tour Concert, Hodson Hall

Wednesday, March 18

10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes. This has been rescheduled because of Professor Carl Cohen’s philosophy class on Thursday, Gallery

3-5 p.m. Freshman/Sophomore Life/Work Planning, Morrison Room

8 p.m. Fine Film: Night at the Opera, Love

10 p.m.-1 a.m. Disco with Stiff, Beautiful, and Hollywood, 900 Room

Thursday, March 19

4 p.m. Philosophy Professor Stephen Stich of the University of Maryland discusses “Philosophical Problems of Genetic Engineering,” Morrison Room

Sports

Friday, March 13

2 p.m. Tennis: Atlantic Christian College, Home

Basketball: 1st Round NCAA Tournament, Charlotte

Saturday, March 14

10 a.m. Women’s Tennis: Furman, Home

1 p.m. Tennis: Presbyterian College, Home

3 p.m. Baseball: West Virginia State, Home

Men’s Track: Mary Washington, Away

Basketball: 1st Round NCAA Tournament, Charlotte

Monday, March 16

3 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Converse, Away

Baseball: West Virginia State, Home

Tuesday, March 17

Tennis: North Carolina, Home

The Back Page

Steel Pulse, England’s #1 Reggae band, will appear in the 900 Room Saturday at 10 p.m. Get down to the
Reggae beat!

What will the Jazz Ensemble think of next?

The Davidson Ensembles will present an encore performance of their Mardi Gras Spring Tour Concert in Hodson Hall, Tuesday, March
17 at 8:15.

The Wind Ensemble, under the direction of Dr. William Lawing, will play works of Holst, Della Joio, and Arnold. With
characteristic flair, our ever incredible Jazz Ensemble will present some of their favorites. Special features include selections both serious and
tongue-in-cheek by the Horn Choir and the Flute Ensemble. One of these numbers was composed by Davidson Music Professor Wilmer
Welsh. Don’t miss this opportunity to support your musical friends; it’s free and it’s fun!

Union logo in for a change

Be innovative; be serious; be absurd—and win a free pass to all Union events this spring! The 900 Room, Union
concerts, and spring frolics will be open free of charge to the creator of the new Davidson College Union logo.

Concert contest in limbo

Ever feel like you have to bend over backwards for your friends? Come get some practice and have a great
time doing it at the Limbo Competition during the Steel Pulse Concert on Saturday, March 14 in the 900 Room.
Three prizes will be awarded for those who can stoop the lowest!

The new logo will replace the old one shown here. Entry blanks have been distributed to each dorm room and
more are available at the Union desk. Turn in your creations by Monday, March 16.

Unique lecture program planned

Visiting scholars will present a series of eleven lectures here March 16-April 6 on topics ranging from “Philosophical Problems of
Genetic Engineering” to “The Politics of Illusion and the Illusion of Politics: Dangers to Democracy.”

The philosophy lecture series is unique. “I don’t think any college in the United States has that many lectures in
that much time,” Philosophy Department Chairman Earl MacCormac said.

Co-sponsored by the Philosophy department and the Center for Special Studies, the lecture series is funded in part by the
Franklin J. Machette Foundation.

Speakers will include professors from universities across the country and government officials such as U.S. District Judge James B. McMillan
and former Mecklenburg County Commission Chairman Liz Hair. The lectures address political, bioethical, and religious issues.

The series will end Monday, April 6 with a film, Reflections, by English mathematician Keith Critchlow.

This is a tremendous opportunity to hear some great contemporary thinkers. Check the calendar for details.

Edited by Ivy Goodman
