S Millenium

Lafayette 14°
Davidson 7

Volume LXXI, Number 2

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday, 25 September 1981

Getting the boot

Honor Code violations at Davidson

by Tim Whalen ’82

What would happen if you witnessed an honor violation? Everyone knows you are supposed to see Will Terry, the dean of students. Or you could go and see either Chip Christian or Bill Purcell, who are student solicitors. But what then?

Follow this story through along with the diagrams on these pages, to find out.

First, the student solicitors would investigate your allegation to determine if a formal charge is in order.

If they should find enough evidence, they would draw up a formal charge stating the nature, time, and location of the alleged violation. They are required to deliver the charge to the accused within ten days of the original complaint. Student Solicitor, Bill Purcell said, “I can think of cases we spent 20-30 hours on before it came to a hearing.”

After receiving the charge, the accused has three days to plead guilty or not guilty. If he pleads guilty, he may either have Dean Terry handle his case administratively, or he may ask to receive his sanction from the Honor Council. In 1979, Dean Terry and the Honor Council made an informal agreement that the minimum sanction for an honor violation would be a two-term suspension. If the accused pleads not guilty, his case goes before the Honor Council. A case may also go before the Honor Council if the dean disqualifies himself. According to Dean Terry, fewer and fewer cases have been handled administratively in recent years.

Between three and ten days after being charged, either an administrative conference or an honor hearing, whichever is appropriate, is held. If the accused requests that he be given a sanction in an administrative conference, the dean of students reviews the evidence and decides on the appropriate sanction.

If the accused requests that his case be heard by the Honor Council, or if the dean disqualifies himself, the secretary of the Honor Council, junior True Davis, sets a time for the hearing and assembles an honor board for each case.

Dean Terry puts the accused in contact with the defense advocates, seniors Nick Viest and Dave Proffit.

The honor board for each case consists of at least the chairman of the Honor Council, senior Steve Carter, two other senior members of the council, two junior members of the council, and one sophomore member. The secretary assigns council members on a rotating basis.

There are eighteen members of the complete Honor Council, nine seniors, six juniors, and three sophomores. The Honor Council is elected by the student body. Three members from each class except the senior class are elected each spring. Once a student is elected to the Honor Council, he remains on the Council throughout his undergraduate years.

Candidates for the Honor Council must be approved by a committee of the Student Conduct Council (SCC), consisting of the dean of students, two faculty or administrative staff members, two student members of the Student Conduct Council, and two members of the Honor Council.