The Back Page

Campus Events

Thursday, January 29
7 p.m. Theater Workshop Plays: Line & The 75th

8 p.m. Pop Film: Honeysuckle Rose, $1.50 (no season passes)

9-1 p.m. Band Party: The Kays ETC
10 p.m. Disco 900 Room

Friday, January 30

10 a.m. Coffee & Cokes Gallery

2 p.m. Biology Seminar: Dr. Claude W. Hinton, Professor of Biology at College of Wooster, will speak on "Some Properties of a Mutator-Suppressor System in Drosophila Ananassae." Room 204, Dana

4 p.m. Theater Workshop Plays: Line & The 75th

8 p.m. Concert: Herbie Mann
9:30 & 11 p.m. Paula Larke 900 Room

Saturday, January 31
8 p.m. Midwinters Dance: Threshold & Lightnin' West Johnston Gym
9:30 & 11 p.m. Paula Larke 900 Room
1 a.m. Union Breakfast 900 Room
1-3 a.m. Waffle House—all you can eat. $2.50 per person, $4 per couple. Tickets on sale at post office or from any ATO member

Monday, February 2

4 p.m. Biology Seminar: Dr. Neal W. Cornell from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse & Alcoholism speaking on "Rapid Fractionation of Cell Suspensions in Subcellular Constituents" Room 204, Dana

8:15 Chamber Music Series: Cecile Licad, pianist. Reception afterwards in Morrison Room

Tuesday, February 3

8:15 Artist Series: Mummenschanz
Some tickets are still available. $2 for students, $4 for faculty, and $7 for general public.

Wednesday, February 4

12:30 Open Luncheon: Harriet Doar, a columnist from The Charlotte Observer 900 Room

7-9 p.m. Pipe Smoking Society will have guest speakers from The Tinderbox in Charlotte Morrison Room

Thursday, February 5
4 p.m. Biology Seminar: Dr. William H. Heidcamp, Professor of Biology at Gustavus Adolphus College, will speak on "Tumor Differentiation in Soft-Agar" Room 204, Dana

In Charlotte

Ice Capades at the Charlotte Coliseum
January 28-February 1— Peggy Fleming will be the guest star. Tickets are $5, $6, and $7.

Film at the Visulite Theatre

January 30-February 5—Premiere of The Getting of Wisdom (1980) by Eleanor Witcombe, also author of My Brilliant Career. (Sat & Sun 2:30, 4:45) 7 & 9:15 p.m.

Spirit Square

February 5— Peter Serkin, pianist—8:15 p.m., $8.

Edited by Jean Soracco

Lightnin' West

Midwinters is here

Midwinters weekend has arrived, filled, as always, with a variety of events. This year there is one change from previous years. Because of the theme "Urban Cowboy," the campus-wide dance will be informal.

The weekend activities begin Thursday evening at 8 p.m. with the film Honeysuckle Rose starring Willie Nelson. At 10 p.m. there will be a disco in the 900 Room. As an alternative to the disco, a top 40 band, the Kays, will be at ETC from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m.

Friday’s concert features Herbie Mann and his Flute and Percussion Theater. Mann has established himself as America’s outstanding jazz flutist and as an internationally known concert artist. The performance is at 8 p.m. in Love Auditorium. Student tickets are $3 in advance and $5 at the door.

Paula Larke, a black actress and blues singer, will perform at 9:30 and 11 p.m. in the 900 Room Friday night. A Winston-Salem native, Larke has a dynamic voice. Her acting credits include the national productions of for colored girls who have considered suicide when the rainbow is enuf, Hair and a touring company of Two Gentlemen of Verona. Larke’s performances are free.

Six hours of non-stop music are on the bill at the campus-wide dance Saturday night.

Licad performs Monday

"Here is a major talent, and this nineteen-year-old girl will be no stranger to the concert halls of the world in the near future." This is the New York Times’ opinion of pianist Cecile Licad.

The recent Leventritt Foundation Gold Medal winner will perform Monday at 8:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium. The concert is free.

As a winner, Licad received $10,000, a three-year recording contract with Columbia Records, and appearances with the nation’s leading symphonies, including the Boston Symphony, National Symphony, Philadelphia Orchestra, and New York Philharmonic.

Monday’s performance should be a rare opportunity to hear one of the up-and-coming greats of the music world.

Two bands will entertain at the informal dance. Threshold plays top 40 and Lightnin' West plays country rock. Those who feel daring may ride a mechanical bull for $1. The dance begins at 9 p.m. Tickets are $2.

To end the weekend there will be two early breakfasts offered. The Union-sponsored breakfast will be 1-2:30 a.m. in the 900 Room. Sausage biscuits, danishes, orange juice, and coffee will be served. ATO is offering an all-you-can-eat waffle breakfast 1-3 a.m. Tickets are $2.50 per person and $4 per couple, and are available from any ATO member. Tickets to all other events are available at the Union Box Office.

Bill Giduz in Union Gallery

The Union Art Gallery currently features a photo exhibit by Bill Giduz of the College Communications department. The photographs are the work of Giduz and various Davidson students. They range in subject matter from campus events to snakes to burning buildings.