Perimeter Housing

Student homes to be gradually given to faculty

The College plans to convert at least six of the nine perimeter houses occupied by students into faculty homes, according
to Business Manager Bob Currie. (Mr. Currie coordinates faculty housing assistance, among his other duties.) He said that Park Place,
Harding House, and Derby House will probably be converted to faculty housing at the end of the 1981–82 school year.
There are no plans to make the largest houses, Julia Johnson House, Martin Manor, and Grey House, available to faculty.

Thompson House, McConnell Apartments, and Derby Apartments were returned to faculty and staff last year. Three perimeter houses will be
returned in 1982, and three more will be returned next year. Mr. Currie stressed that they were all formerly occupied
by faculty.

Dean of Students Will Terry, who officially represents the students’ viewpoint in making housing decisions, agreed to turn three houses
over to the faculty next year, but added, “We may have to renegotiate after that.” If Dean Terry and Mr.
Currie are not able to reach a compromise between faculty and student housing needs, College President Samuel Spencer will make
the decision.

Dean Terry said that unless major problems are found, the College plans no renovations other than painting the houses before
they are made available to faculty.

Lafferty House is the only exception. It is in such disrepair that, according to Mr. Currie, “We feel it would
not be economical to spend money on it.” Student Housing Director Bill Bolding says that he has been trying to
get Lafferty House condemned ever since he has worked here, and Mr. Currie agreed that “the Administration has wanted to
raze Lafferty House.” He explained the only reason that the house has not been demolished is that there has always
been a group of students who wanted to live in it. “We would not want anyone to live there against
their wishes,” he said.

The faculty needs some of the perimeter houses because there has been “a hiatus in building buting on the part
of younger faculty members” in recent years, according to Mr. Currie. He said that in the past, at least three
or four faculty members moved out of college-owned housing into their own homes each year, making room for new faculty
to move into the college-owned housing. Because of today’s high interest rates and construction costs, professors have not moved into
their own homes fast enough to make room for the arrival of new faculty, so the College is having a
hard time finding housing for them.

He sees having professors live close to the College as an integral part of the Davidson system, although some professors
do commute from out of town. In order to make it possible for professors to live in Davidson, Mr. Currie
says that the College hopes to construct houses for faculty members, but presently has no long-range plans. The College might
build on the McConnell property, which is about a mile out of town on Concord Road and owned by the
College.

Dean Terry said, “As the need for faculty housing increases, student housing becomes tighter.” “In the foreseeable future, Davidson will
not be in a position to house all of its students,” Mr. Currie predicted.

Dean Terry said that the present system, in which rising sophomores have the least priority in the housing lottery, will
have to be reevaluated. An SGA committee chaired by SGA President Chip Hurley is studying the housing lottery and expects
to recommend improvements for this spring. Mr. Bolding said that there was on-campus housing for everyone who wanted it this
year. If Mr. Currie’s predictions come true, the prospect of a student housing shortage is likely to become a problem
again.

Last week’s article on perimeter housing reported an ant infestation in the kitchen of Martin Manor South. The exterminator sprayed
the kitchen on Wednesday.

By Peter Gulyn ’83

Friday and Saturday nights
HALLOWEEN SPECIAL

6:00 to 6:30 pm — 25¢ beverage!
6:30 to 7:00 pm — 20¢ beverage!
7:00 to 7:30 pm — 15¢ beverage!
7:30 to 8:00 pm — 10¢ beverage!
8:00 to 8:30 pm — 5¢ beverage!
8:30 to 9:00 pm — New York Sicilian pizza available

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday

IS SANTA A GNOME?

Dr. Tom Clark at work with his creations.

See Santa — Gnome size — along with dozens of other elfen creations by Davidson’s College Professor Dr. Thomas F.
Clark.

A Gnome by Dr. Clark is a delightful idea in planning your holiday giving. We have a large selection of
Dr. Clark's Gnomes now on display at

VILLAGE STORE
