Coliseum Coney

Erskine and Wake teach j-ballers some valuable lessons on the road

Kenny Wilson called it a learning experience. If that’s the case, then experience drives a hard bargain—two losses per lesson, to be exact. But in the second loss (63-82 to Wake Forest), the Wildcat team learned two fundamental things: how good they can be and how bad they can be.

For ten minutes in Winston-Salem Tuesday night, the team wearing red was the best team on the court. Better than Wake Forest, which is among the top fifty teams in the nation. And Davidson still wasn’t as good as it could have been.

The Cats won the opening jump, and the first two buckets of the evening were theirs. They were playing with confidence, taking outside jump shots and having Jamie Hall wheel and deal his way past Jim Johnstone for the inside points. They were running the offense fairly well, and despite five early turnovers, as the clock ticked down to 10:00, the scoreboard read Visitor 14, Home 13. Lesson 1: how good they can be.

Then it fell apart. “On our first eight possessions we scored seven times. From possessions nine through eighteen we had ten turnovers,” said Coach Hussey. After those eight possessions, one turnover after another led to one Deacon basket after another. Lesson 2: how bad they can be.

The first two came on Alvis Rogers steals that he took in for consecutive dunks. The jams brought the lethargic crowd to life, and although Rogers went down with a bruise, his team rose up to score sixteen unanswered points. “It’s a mental thing with them,” said Hussey.

A prime example came at the end of the half. With 0:25 left, Wake had the ball. “We told them, ‘no shot, block out hard.’ They had a mental lapse and the center went up the middle uncontested.”

At halftime the question in the Davidson fan’s mind was “How can we be winning 14-13 after ten minutes and then finish down by 14 (24-38) at the half?” The answer lay in the stat sheet. Four rebounds, fifteen turnovers, but hold it—68.8% from the field? They only shot 56.7%. Ah, but the shots count. They took 30 shots, we took 16.

The second half was much the same lesson and Wake’s press kept Davidson off an inside game. Postman Jamie Hall said, “Our guards were getting pressure and I had to come out as a pressure release. That took me away from the inside. If I could have stayed inside I could have been more effective.”

The turnovers neutralized extremely effective shooting as well. Cliff Tribus (14 pts.) was six for eight from the field and Kenny Wilson (game high 18 pts.) was 9-for-14. But the shot count (51-67) neutralized that.

Give the Deacons their due, however. Even without Rogers, who was out the rest of the game but is ready to play Marquette on Saturday, Coach Carl Tacy was able to keep pumping in new talent, and they wore the Davidson players down. The Wildcats had four players in the thirty-minute zone (Hall peaked at 39). The Demon Deacs had four players in the 20-minute zone (Johnston peaked at 27). Davidson was a tired team.

As if Wake Forest wasn’t lecture enough, Erskine College had a few points to make for class as well. Seventy-four, in fact. Davidson could only counter with 65. “We didn’t execute well. Erskine played a tremendous game. They played over their head,” commented Hussey. The Wildcats were outplayed. Erskine shot a phenomenal 61% from the field and outrebounded the Cats 39-25. Erskine was dedicating a new coliseum to boot. “I never would have scheduled Erskine down there. [Coach Hussey didn’t draw up this year’s schedule.] That’s their NIT. [National Invitational Tournament.] That was their season.”

So Coach Hussey and his still-young team add two to the loss column credited to experience. And experience is a hard teacher. What, pray tell, was the lesson?

According to Coach Hussey, “We’re trying to teach them how to win. They’re trying not to lose. I don’t know if they know how to win, but I do know they want to win.”

Much of that lesson will come to test tonight, as the Citadel takes over the homeroom court, the Mausoleum, in the opening game of the First Union Holiday Classic. It’s the first conference game, and the Citadel is already rolling thanks to their freshman class. Kenny Wilson feels the team is about ready to explode, and this weekend may be the time and place.

Not in criticism of his team, Hussey asks, “Are they [the team] willing to pay the price? I think so. I offer this to them as a challenge.”

By Steve Soud ’84.

Copeland House Gallery.

CUSTOM FRAMING—ART SUPPLIES

128 S. Main Street

Gift Certificates for Christmas giving as well as various gift baskets

Merry Christmas from Natural Resources!

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981

Pre-medical students
Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. Investigate this financial alternative to the high cost of medical education:

Contact:
USAF Health Professions Recruiting
Suite GL-1, 1100 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, NC 27609
Phone collect