(Re ee —

Film reviews with Nick Graham

Heaven Can Wait; Blaise Pascal

THIS WEEKEND IS HOMECOM-
ing ’81 and for the connoisseur of socially-committed
cinema, that classic feature The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie will
be playing at various locations campus-wide between Friday evening
and Sunday afternoon.

Pop Films’ contribution to the
proceedings is the highly successful
Julie Christie / Warren Beatty feature of a few years ago Heaven Can
Wait, in the 900 Room at the ungodly hour of 1:30 AM on Saturday
morning.

Apart from adding weight to
one of the basic tenets of my own
theology — that it is mercifully difficult for a football player to enter
the kingdom of heaven — the film
provides considerable comic entertainment in the persons of Christie
and Beatty, attempting, with a fair
degree of success, to recreate their
collaborations in “Shampoo” and
“McCabe and Mrs. Miller” during
the early 'Seventies. In this film
Beatty plays Joe Pendleton, a footballer who is plucked away from the
game he loves too early and forcibly
reincarnated as a captain of industry.
In the real world of course such
changes only come about after many
years of selling vacuum cleaners
door-to-door, but here the transformation is achieved by divine fiat, as
represented by Pendleton’s guardian
angel, James Mason, who turns in a
delightfully dithery performance.
Christie appears on the scene as an
English environmentalist (of all
things) and the plot for the remainder
of the movie lurches between Beatty’s problems with his newly acquired unfaithful wife (Dyan Cannon) and his adulterous-homicidal
secretary, and the rather more unsatisfactory matter of his attempts to relive his past life as a footballer. The
whole thing amounts to a pleasant
comedy, making up in performance
for what it lacks in situational belly-laughs and is probably the most satisfactory of Hollywood’s recent attempts to recreate the
romantic-comedy classics of the ’40s. (The
film is in fact a wholesale remake of
a feature from that period.) Football-hearties will doubtless find the stamina required to see it in the early
hours of the morning.

On Wednesday, Bob Trobich’s Fine Films Committee continues their season with Roberto Rossellini’s 1972 feature, “Blaise Pascal,” evidently an extremely
rare opportunity to see this recondite film, as nobody outside the ivory towers of the Humanities program seems to know
anything about it. However, research conducted under great difficulties by the Davidsonian’s semi-resident cinéfile has produced these tentative facts. The
film is apparently a historically accurate biopic which manages to reconcile the drama (such as it was) of the French
thinker’s life with the more abstract matter of his relentless search for The Truth. The danger here of course is
that Rossellini may succumb to the temptation of tediously mundane documentary, but the film is apparently compulsively watchable not least
for the fine color photography throughout. Rossellini first made his name in the Italian cinema immediately after the Second War
with the excellent “Rome, Open City,” a film dealing with the last days of the Fascist regime, which was most
notable for its use of actual partisans in the action sequences. Although “Blaise Pascal” may not aspire to such heights
of political involvement or military realism, it should be recommended viewing for all of you who still cannot distinguish the
programming-language from the man who proved that Christianity was a safe bet even for gambling men. Whether it will justify
the Humanities program's encroachment upon Fine Films however is anybody’s guess.

It seems that some people have been insinuating that I have been writing this column without bothering to see some
of the films first. Not only is this to misunderstand the nature of film-criticism it is also completely untrue. The
truth of the matter is, of course, that I never see any of the films before writing about them. To
see a film before reviewing it merely prejudices me and I am sure that the readers of the Davidsonian would
rather tolerate my scintillating speculations as to the nature of a feature than be regaled with the odious inconsequentialities of
transatlantic bigotry. For the few remaining sceptics still unconvinced by this argument I wish to point out once and for
all that if I write these reviews it is for three reasons only:

1.) To get myself talked about behind my back.
2.) To infuriate the editorial staff of the Davidsonian.
3.) To make a name for myself, a thing which is absolutely indispensable if one is to succeed in the
world of politics, or with women.

Walker College of Business

Appalachian State University

A representative of the Walker College of Business will be on campus Monday 2 November to discuss graduate study opportunities.
Programs include an MBA and specialized masters programs in accounting, economics, and business education. All programs are fully accredited by
the AACSB. Financial aid is available for qualified students.

For more information contact the Careers Office in the basement of the Union.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981
