Hockey Was There Last Year, B by Jim Northrup '82

Davidson’s field hockey team lost to Clemson 9-0 on Tuesday and lost their first home game of the season to
Appalachian State yesterday. Clemson, a Division I team (Davidson plays in Division II), controlled the entire game, scoring three goals
in the first half and padding that lead with six more in the second. “There’s not much to say,” offered
Coach Dee Mayes. “We're better than we showed, but we didn’t do anything well that game.”

Davidson played to a good-sized crowd Thursday, but again didn’t give their fans much to cheer about. Sophomore forward Courtney
Hall secured first possession for the Cats, which they kept for most of the first seven minutes. After that, a
winded Davidson team let up on the pressure long enough for the Apps to push the ball into Davidson’s half
of the field. Freshman Lou Hamilton and sophomore Katie Dagenhart harried the Mountaineer offense by breaking a series of drives
for the circle. Goalie Mitzi Short put on some pressure of her own several minutes later, causing the Appalachian offense
to lose control of the ball in front of the goal. A sluggish Davidson team allowed Appalachian to control the
ball for the rest of the half. Hamilton, a notable exception, proved that she could be there when needed, coming
through in the clutch several times. The Cats’ defense held, but there were too many pinches. Appalachian’s possession time wore
on the Cats, but Short provided an impenetrable goal that prevented any score by the visitors in the first half.

Tough second half

Davidson’s defense, still tired, allowed a near goal within the first thirty seconds of second half play. The ball bounced
off the goal frame, but Appalachian kept showing for another two minutes. Not long enough: Appalachian, not to be denied,
scored the first goal of the game four minutes into the second half. After several more minutes of strong possession
by the visitors, they scored again. Three minutes before the end of the game, Appalachian scored again. Davidson showed little
life until the last minute, but by then there wasn’t time to mount any sort of realistic effort. Davidson was
outplayed for the second time in a week. There were any number of strong individual efforts, but the team couldn’t
agree on when to push. Appalachian wore the Cats down by staying in motion, and when they drove, they drove
together. Individually they were a little faster than Davidson, but the Cats had the better players. More importantly, however, Appalachian
was more aggressive as a team.

Slow start last year

Although last year’s team started off 0-3, this start hardly bodes a berth in the national Division II tournament. In
the week ahead, the Cats travel to Catawba on Tuesday, and then host arch-rival Pfeiffer a week from today. A
win at Catawba is a must, and a win over Pfeiffer would be a real morale boost for a team
that needs it.

Katie Dagenhart hustles on defense against ASU.

IMAC: The Forks are Here

Here is BB & SS’s initial ranking of Davidson’s top seven flickerball teams:

Number 1 Hill’s Team

After failing Cohen’s Philosophy 112, Hill was sent to Cambridge in order to pick up two credits and qualify for
the ’81...season. Hill has received special tutoring from Mary and Murray. In the past, Hill has been known as IMAC’s
quickest tailback, but he has been slowed considerably by the surgical addition of Sandy Fossett to his abdomen. The rest
of the KA’s are a group of no-names, with the exception of Scott Smith. Dave Profitt, a three-year veteran, has
been placed on waivers in order to carry out his personal vendetta against virginity with Loy “the hydra” Thornton. The
team’s knees should be in better shape this year due to the departure of mutual friend Shera Alford.

Number 2 Rastros
This group of talented juniors and Yancey “Volunteer” Carter pose a threat to the senior-dominated IMAC league. The team uses
a twelve-lace football that “anyone can throw” and play all their games in Neyland Stadium near “the strip.” Phil “nice
guy” Gordon anchors a physical defense with John “the atom” Cain. Offensively, the bizarre backfield of Buck “red scare” Bradbury,
Julius Cesar “the tan entrepreneur” Faulkner, and Mike “Tiny Tim” Goode lead a front form dominated by Dave “I’m fat
but slow and very tan” Carr. Asked for a prediction of this year’s season, Yancey Carter responded with a high
five and a simple “we’re all over it.”

Number 3 SAE
The defending champs are not only ugly but they are short as well with the return of Chris “I wish
Georgia’s mascot was an alligator” Daniels. David “always grinding in my pants” Evansteinbergstein anchors an offense with many plays but
no talent to execute them except for Marv “I wish I was still on Hurtin 4 Certin” Webster. Ben “Dry
Heave” Williams and Burt “I love to sleep in the woods” Taylor are two rookies with a lot of promise.

Number 4 Pikes
As usual, the yathtu warriors will dominate flickerball. They achieved an early season victory when they won the Will Dunbar
award for being the “Most uncooperative house on the Court.” Led by Chrisse Hynde in the backfield, the Pikes are
the dark horse this season (even without superstar John Eley).

Number 5 The Electric Forks
This team has emerged from an ominous cloud of smoke and a puddle of long water to challenge for the
81 IMAC crown. Offensively, the team is led by Craig “I want to be skinny” Finger and Hugh “I don’t
even take my hat off for Ginny” Robertson. Defense will be hurting with the loss of Tom Barker but Phil
“I’ve got bigger arms than Yancey” Goodnow and Kelvin “I’m a poet, songwriter and all-around tycoon” will step up. The
entire team reads the Davidsonian.

These are our picks for this year’s season. Freshmen, you might as well give up now, you don’t have a
chance.

page 9 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

THIS WEEK’S MULTIPLE CHOICE QUIZ:
[1] What is the best cure for insomnia at Davidson?
a) Counting sheep.
b) Reading the Davidsonian.
c) Drinking beer.
d) Talking to Anne Keith.

[2] Who is the fattest faculty member at Davidson?
a) Randy Dulin.
b) Charlie Slagle.
c) Beachball
d) elgalS eilrahC.

[3] Who spends the most time in Winston-Salem?
a) Lach Zemp.
b) Wake Forest students.
c) Salem students.

Number 6 SPE
Jarvis Redwine is the mayor of Winston-Salem.

Number 7 Patricia Edmonson
