January 16, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

Captains’ Council excited about work

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The Captain’s Council, a new group consisting of captains from each campus intercollegiate team, will sponsor activities to promote Davidson athletics.

Athletic Director Gene Bingham announced the formation of the council in October. The objectives of the group are to advise the athletic director, to promote the esteem of Davidson intercollegiate athletics, to encourage conformance to the Southern Conference Code of Conduct, and to serve as a hospitality committee.

Senior Bart Landess, a member of the track and cross country teams, was elected president at the group’s organizational meeting last year.

Senior Barb Ashley, a member of the women’s field hockey and track teams, was elected vice-president. Ashley is now acting president while Landess is away for a term.

“Athletes make up a large percentage of the student body at Davidson,” Ashley pointed out. “A lot of people felt that athletes should have their own organization just like the SGA.”

The Council will provide “a way for athletes to have their voice heard,” Ashley said, by enabling them “to communicate through the captains with the athletic director.”

Senior Dick Jones, a member of the track and cross country teams, is secretary-treasurer.

Jones said, “The Captain’s Council is really the best idea we've had in quite a while. There is such a diversity of interests among groups on campus like athletes, coaches, the administration, and particularly the faculty. We see that as being detrimental to the campus as a whole. We’ll throw things out in general discussions and try to get all of the groups to some understanding.”

Director of Sports Information Emil Parker, who is advisor to the group, sees the council as “basically a communications tool. It will be a new tie between athletes, administration, faculty, and students.” He said the council was needed because “we in the athletics department really suffer from an image problem. Getting students and faculty involved with the program will really clear up a lot of wrong impressions that many people on campus have about what goes on over here in the gym.”

Each Council member is on one of four committees: code of conduct, advisor to the athletic director, promotion, and hospitality.

Cheerleader Lisa Olson heads the Code of Conduct Committee. Olson said the committee has drawn up guidelines for conduct at athletic events and has distributed them to captains and coaches. “We are really putting a lot of emphasis on conduct, especially since the Southern Conference has begun an award (the McAllister Award) for conduct, which Davidson won last year,” she said.

Anne Stanback (women’s basketball) and Dan Robinson (soccer) co-chair the Advisory Committee to the Director of Athletics. Stanback and Robinson will advise Athletic Director Bingham and will relay athletes’ requests to him.

Pat Sheridan (football) and Kirby Owen (women’s basketball) co-chair the Promotion Committee, formed to “promote the status and esteem of the intercollegiate athletic program in the Davidson College community.”

Grace Morgan (women’s tennis) heads the Hospitality Committee, which will greet and entertain all visiting intercollegiate teams as well as provide special opportunities for faculty members to meet athletes and coaches.

“We are here to serve the students,” Bingham explained. “The Captain’s Council is a part of our effort to do that. We want to upgrade every sport at Davidson College. To do that we must be responsive to their wants and needs.”

Women’s basketball falls to Irish, looks to improve 0-6 record

By LISA YOUNG
Staff Correspondent

Despite an extremely slow start, the Lady Wildcats say they are ready to play basketball.

Returning to Davidson six days early from the Christmas break, the team worked on building team skills and spirit. Sophomore Mike Frankhouser said, “We had really just gotten unified when we got back from break. We were really playing well until everybody got the flu.”

Four out of five starters fell to the Davidson epidemic by Sunday, January 4 when the Cats fell to Notre Dame, 85-36. Poor shooting and numerous turnovers hurt the team in the effort.

The following Thursday, the team met Davidson County Community College. Aggressive play kept the Cats in the game, but the shots simply did not fall. Charging to within four points, the girls could not hold on and lost to their rivals 65-54. Mike Frankhouser led the team with 20 points while Kirby Owen followed with 7.

Monday night seemed a replay of the effort against Notre Dame, with Davidson scoring only 18 points in the first half against UNC-Greensboro. The second half effort was more encouraging as the ladies put forth their best play of the season. Deadly shooting put Davidson ahead by seven in the second half. UNC-G responded with good shooting of its own and came out on top by one, 65-64, as the buzzer sounded.

Sophomore Jeanne Womack was high scorer with 15 points and 14 rebounds. Mitzi Short contributed 10 points, Frankhouser had 11 points and 18 rebounds, and Cathey Morell had 8 points and 11 rebounds.

With the momentum of the UNC-G game, the Cats look enthusiastically to improving their 0-6 record. Davidson faces a tough-shooting Belmont Abbey team Wednesday evening at 7:00 in Johnston Gym and goes against powerhouse Burnett College Thursday night in Greensboro.

Pitchers $2.00 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.
Thursday Night Happy Hour

Delivery Service
phone number 892-8686

While many Davidson students were bedridden with the flu, others like Carolyn Barnett took to the slopes for some skiing.