— IMAC by the Doughboys & the Slimshafts

She Ed eyes Richards & Bailey

Recently it has come to the attention of these columnists that a debate is currently going on in the Davidson
anarchy to decide what group to house in the old freshman eating houses. The Slimshafts have learned that the following
proposals have already been made:

1) Athletic Director and varsity Football Coach Ed Farrell has proposed to build an indoor practice field for his football
team. It has been argued by critics that the structure is somewhat small, but Farrell assures everyone that the Davidson
offense will never go further than twenty yards on any particular play. Kickers Wayne Paymer and Gary Sims both questioned
the feasibility of a field goal attempt inside the quaint structure, but Ed put all fears to rest when he
responded, “Why kick a field goal when we can run the ball on the fourth down?”

2) Jane Alexanian and Kathy Kooken, both Davidson sophomores, have submitted a joint proposal to begin a charm school for
adolescent and college students. The school will be open to all Davidson coeds who can prove they have not entered
puberty and have attended at least one Hampden-Sydney mixer.

3) A group of varsity football players, spearheaded by team leader Mickey Dillon, have proposed to build a Dixie Electric
Company on the Davidson campus. Dillon and sidekick Doonesberry argued to Dean Terry that the gas cost into Charlotte is
rapidly dwindling their scholarship money. When asked about the situation, Wildcat Jeff Kane replied, “I'd just as soon be off
campus myself.”

4) Coach Farrell has issued a second proposal which should interest all Davidson students. Ed has suggested moving the Davidson
Union down into one of the new houses. He would then move the books currently inside E. H. Little Library
back into the Park Library building. This move would leave E. H. Little open for the new varsity.

5) Well, two weeks ago we promised an interesting article about attractive Davidson girls and now that is finished, let's
go to the real article.

6) Sig Ep president Ralph Taylor has proposed that the old eating house be used for 1981-82 Sig Ep house
meetings. The expected two hundred and forty-six pledges pose a serious crowd control problem for Davidson authorities. It has been
learned that Dean Will Terry may favor this proposal as he commented recently, “I see no reason why Sig Ep
cannot make a comeback and become a viable mob on the Davidson campus.”

After careful recalculation, we must admit we made an omission in our original DB & SS: Flickerball Top Seven. It
now appears obvious that Deep Throw certainly deserves very little attention in the column. This team is anchored by Davidson’s
chief assault victim, Allen “Please call me Beaver” Griffin. Griffin has installed the “Run and Shoot” offense this year with
the help of two of the new varsity.weight room to be Davidson’s foremost non-athletes, installed in 1982. Hoping students won’t
misunderstand his motives, Farrell assures all Davidson exercise buffs that he will leave open the typing room for “breather workouts.”

7) The seventh and final proposal for inhabiting the old freshman weight room is by Andy Brown and Bob Trobitch.
Brown, Davidson’s answer to Marv Throneberry, will talk at length to anyone willing to listen about his team. Also, we
must quickly mention the team’s defensive stalwart, Rusty “Forehead” Colechia. In other sports, the rugby team struck up their first
home game this past weekend, losing by a narrow margin. Leaving the field in dire disappointment, in not being able
to claim the game ball, opponents (Wake Forest) in a show of good faith donated the ball to Davidson’s own
Brian Whitmire. Ruggers moved on to “Tom’s Place” to partake in post-game refreshments led by the “slumping Sophomore trio” -
Rives “f--- o--” Balcom, Andrea “I’m not drunk just incoherent” Geyer, and Elizabeth “the Rock” Coleman. The procession toured Davidson’s
campus, then on to Wake Forest where Balcom and Geyer demonstrated advanced techniques in scrumming down.

As acting athletic director Farrell can support the cost of moving the books merely by asking all “minor” sports to
cut back exorbitant expenses, and by asking each player to bring his old high school uniform for Davidson.

5) Two area restaurants, Gus’s and Peregrine House, have mutually proposed a new restaurant to be known as Peregus’s. The
restaurant will feature free food and promises to pay those students who will buy beer from them. Delivery will be
free and Peregus’s employees will gladly pour the beverages down the throats of those incapable of feeding themselves. Dean Terry
has voiced some concern over the popularity of this restaurant, as he has noticed that the Lone Star Restaurant is
still giving away one free taco salad with the purchase of a meal. The need for segregated eating houses has
been voiced by DCF president Alex McCallie. When asked why DCF had such a great need for a segregated eating
house he responded, “We pride ourselves on creating an organization for the needy. We plan to fund it with fines
collected from worshippers of Baal (alias: Electric Forks), but most importantly, we will form an elitist eating facility, potentially Utopian,
allowing students to escape from the real world of the Davidson College community.” When asked about the problem of seating
half the student body Alex stated, “That shouldn’t be a problem seeing that most members fast frequently.”

Next week: Balcom and Geyer return from Wake Forest, Charlie Slagle fasts with DCF, and Doughboys return from an honor
code sentence of one week due to plagiarism of humorous columns from “World Book Encyclopedia.”

Walker College of Business

A representative of the Walker College of Business will be on campus Monday, 2 November to discuss graduate study opportunities.
Programs include an MBA and specialized masters programs in accounting, economics, and business education. All programs are fully accredited by
the AACSB. Financial aid is available for students. For more information contact the Careers Office in the basement of the
Union.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981
