VAN SRSOSRRSESIYI Fe sre aaseeds.-- T January 30, 1981— The Davidsonian—9

Freshman hall experience introduces neophytes to rigors of college life

By GLENN KELLUM
Features Editor

A door opens. A hall counselor appears. “Hall meeting tonight at six,” he screams. Door closes. Freshman awakes from nap.
Stunned. Goes back to sleep.

For nearly every Davidson student, this scene was or is a way of life from September to May. For nine
months, freshmen are wined, dined, beered, jeered, rushed, crushed, indoctrinated, matriculated, coerced, conversed, graded, and jaded. And their main source
of guidance during all this comes from older students—hall counselors.

Davidson’s freshmen are grouped together and given surrogate mothers. But why? Freshmen are different from others. They’ve just come from
home where someone has been aware of their needs, disappointments, and victories. When they come to school (often a very
difficult time) they need someone supportive. They need a home-like environment, which is “created by the hall counselors,” Assistant Dean
of Students Sue Ross said.

Wouldn’t some people see the hall counselors as coddling the freshmen? And by extension, wouldn’t some see the College as
coddling the freshmen? The word “coddling” is pejorative, Ross said. “Caring” is a better word.

Davidson has not always had hall counselors. In the early 50’s freshmen lived in dorms with upperclassmen who had no
responsibility for the new students. “If I had had an upperclassman (in charge), it would have made an enormous difference,”
said Dean of Students Will Terry ‘54. Terry said that having seen Davidson both with and without hall counselors, he
considers the hall counselor system “very valuable.” College President Samuel Spencer introduced the hall counselor program in the mid ‘50s
when he was Dean of Students.

The hall counselor, in addition to being a caring and supportive person, should also be a good source of information.
Freshmen “need a period of indoctrination,” Ross said. She explained that this “period of indoctrination” is important in a school
with an honor system. Upperclassmen tend to take the honor system for granted, Ross said. The hall counselor is there
to explain the system to the freshmen.

An important part of the hall counselor’s job is dealing with the individual problems of the freshmen on his hall.
A hall counselor should not just wait for a freshman to come to him with a problem. The hall counselor
should “sense” problems, Terry said. “Some are better than others.”

In the first year at school, freshmen are likely to become depressed. The hall counselor must be careful, Terry said,
because “negativism is contagious.” “A hall counselor with a positive, upbeat attitude often shapes the way freshmen feel about Davidson
and about themselves.” Hall counselors should be “caring and school-spirited,” Ross said. They should also be able to work closely
with the Dean’s office.

The Selection Committee has been criticized for selecting hall counselors with the same personalities. “We’re not into cloning,” Terry explained,
but most of the students who apply are similar. The Selection Committee looks for students who are “pro-Davidson, aware of
campus events, and sincerely interested in the job,” Freshman Advisor Barb Ashley, a former Committee member, said.

The effectiveness of the system is evident, Terry said. Hall Counselor is now a “sought after position,” whereas apathy was
the byword in years past. Effective hall counselors make effective people apply. Prestige is also a possible reason why some
people apply, Terry admitted. Prestige, however, should not be a reason to want the job, Ashley pointed out.

This year’s senior class said their hall counselors were most effective and influential, Terry said. However, the hall counselor system
is not free of problems. Complaints have been sounded in the past. Some freshmen noted on a hall counselor evaluation
that the freshman hall situation was “stifling.”Ashley said. Some complained that there was difficulty in meeting upperclassmen and other freshmen.
This problem was mitigated for the men when Belk was converted into a freshmen dormitory, Terry explained. In Belk, the
freshmen can live near other men their age without “destroying the unity of the hall.” The women were helped with
the shift from Cannon to Richardson, he added, “because all the world beats a path to their door anyway.”

Another problem has been that freshmen claimed their hall counselors were not “assertive enough,” Ross said. (David McCurry) Assertiveness is
good for the first term, Ashley noted, but the freshmen should be urged to “initiate” their own activities in the
second half of the year. Freshmen have also wanted the hall counselors to be more “assertive” in terms of controlling
what goes on up and down the hall, Ross added. However, the hall counselors should “strike a balance between friend/confidante
and disciplinarian,” she concluded.

These minor problems have not lessened any of the praise that the hall counselor system receives. Other schools, such as
Duke University, have come here to talk about the possibility of converting to freshmen halls and dorms. Some of these
schools have an “incredibly high attrition rate as compared with Davidson,” Terry said. These other schools see our “system” as
a way to lessen the problems on their own campuses, Terry concluded. The low attrition rate at Davidson is perhaps
due to the esprit de corps inspired by the hall counselors, Ross said.

Camp Thunderbird
Employment at its Best

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are interested in serving boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them
in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual
child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more of
our specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply.

CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, N.C., is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing,
water skiing, swimming, and canoeing), yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery,
riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or
call G. William Climer, Jr. Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).

Creative hair cutting — THE HAIR COTTAGE for men and women
Owner/Stylist: Jane Schenk
Stylist: Linda Caldwell
1757 E. Rocky River Road
By appointment only
892-5707

Mail to: Sea Pines AT HILTON HEAD
Reservations Dept.
Hilton Head Island, SC 29928

(no. of people) choice: __ Feb 13-15; __ Feb 20-22; __ Feb 27-March 1.

Or Call Toll Free 1-800-845-6131
1-800-922-7042 in S.C.

(Sea Pines at Hilton Head, Out of the Goodness of its Heart is Making this Unprecedented Offer to Students of
Davidson College.)

A 3-Day, First Class Weekend on Hilton Head Island... $1/hr

THIS IS NOT A JOKE. Sea Pines at Hilton Head Island, one of the finest resorts in America, will treat
you to 3 days and 2 nights in a private, luxury villa near the beach for $65 per person. And
as additional inducements, we’ll include two continental breakfasts, a Saturday night cookout or buffet, free tennis, and a day’s bike
rental. All on us. Why are we really doing this? Because the people who make these kinds of company decisions
either went to Davidson or one of the other eight colleges we've invited. IT PAYS TO HAVE ALUMNI IN HIGH
PLACES.

Name
Address
City
State
Zip
Telephone

Gentlemen:
Here is my deposit for $25. Please arrange a 3-Day, First Class Weekend for (no. of bedrooms) for the weekend
of (give 1st and 2nd choice).
