6—The Davidsonian—April 3, 1981

Inside IMAC

Softball season is underway, and there are a lot of games to report. In the preseason polls, I placed the
Bad Pikes high in the rankings, but thus far the PIKAs just haven’t been able to get it together. They
lost their first game to the Hosebag Hunters (alias Noops and his bandwagon of SPES). The Bad Pikes probably have
more power hitters than any other team, but their turnout has been low. They dropped their second game to the
Masterbatters. The Hosebag Hunters went on to pick up their second victory by defeating the Busch Boys. The Hosebag Hunters
look as though they are definitely one of the top teams this year.

The Perpetual Perpetrators are another team which I pick to do well. The Perpetrators’ strength lies in their ability to
be intimidating. While the team doesn’t have much speed, they have plenty of size. They destroyed the Keg Killers and
in their second game embarrassed the Masterbatters 19 to 4. As I said before, the Perpetual Perpetrators are intimidating. The
team consists of such Duke Dorm ruffians as PJ (Pat Sheridan), Danny Klinar, Steve Herman Lowe, Mitch, Dean, Fahey, Attar,
Whitmire, and other football players who can bench twice their body weight.

The upset of the week belongs to the Skoal Brothers, who beat the Brick Brothers’ number one team Pissin’ in
the Wind. In other games, The Old Men defeated the Art Department, Off Again beat the Busch Boys with the
help of their all-star shortfielder Zeebo, and Phi Delt abused PAX. In women’s IMAC, the Bottom Liners beat Filthy Rich
10 to 9.

Here’s this week’s Top Ten:
1. Rick Kelly’s Hosebag Hunters
2. Perpetual Perpetrators
3. Danny Klinar, who plays for the Hosebag Hunters and the Perpetrators
4. Eddie Searcher
5. Skoal Brothers
6. Old Men
7. Pissin’ in the Wind
8. Phi Delt
9. Off Again and Zeebo
10. Bottom Liners

Just in... Hussey Resigns

Taco Dinner for 5
- Two beefy tacos
- Hot refried beans with cheese
- House salad topped with beef, cheese, tomatoes, black olives, lettuce, onions, chips, dressing

TACOS "BURGER (Lunch and Dinner Special)
Monday, 11 am to 2 pm
Tues-Thurs, 11 am to 8 pm
Fri-Sat, 11 am to 9 pm

Highway 115, Cornelius 892-7415

Jones, the track team outscored

Baseball Cats come together to beat UNCC
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The story of the baseball team so far has been a rollercoaster ride. One day they’ll blow a team off
the diamond, the next day they’ll give a game away. Although a few players have shown exceptional consistency, the team
itself has lacked the magic word. Generally, when the pitchers have been on, the bats have let them down. Sometimes,
neither pitchers nor batters came through.

One of the few exceptions to what is fast becoming a rule of inconsistency was the game against UNCC last
Thursday night, as the Cats doled out a 15-1 drubbing to the ‘Niners. Pitching came around as Rusty Colechia pitched
nine solid innings of six-hit ball. The bats came through as Earl Ransom cracked a grand slam and Joby Merten
hit a three-run shot.

Then things turned around as Western Carolina completed a twin-killing that was important to Wildcat Southern Conference hopes. Although freshman
Scott Redding came through on the mound, the bats weren’t behind him, and the team forfeited a bottom-of-the-seventh, bases loaded,
no-out situation by hitting into a double play. The Wildcats lost 1-0. In the second game, the pitching didn’t come
through. The visiting Catamounts held a 7-2 lead after three innings, but the hosts scratched back.

Track team hurdles into 6-7 season; defeats tough Lynchburg
By CHRIS TIERNAN
Staff Writer

Paced by four individual victories by senior co-captain Dick Jones, the track team outscored Lynchburg College last Saturday 83-66 to
run...The season re- to pull within one run. After a crucial walk, the wind came out of Davidson’s comeback. A
Western Carolina fly ball sailed over the fence, leaving the final score at 9-6. Pitching is still the major obstacle
to a winning season, as a 6.00 team earned run average (ERA) attests. “A few of the pitchers have started
really well,” Coach Charlie Slagle said. “Colechia and Redding have given up only 3 runs each in their last two
starts. We’re looking for a couple more consistent starters. If we get some, the second half of the season should
be better.” So far the hitting has posed little problem, as the team maintains a .300 clip. Phil Gorden continues
to hover around .400, and has played well behind the plate. John Porter’s lumber is coming out of its sleep
as his average climbed to .338. As Slagle pointed out, “You can’t complain about our hitting.” Although the team’s overall
record is 8-14 (2-4 in the conference), it has a good chance to even up the columns a little this
week. After a game against Methodist today, the team faces Pfeiffer tomorrow at 3:00 p.m. On Saturday and Monday at
1:00 p.m. the team is slated to face UT-C and East Tennessee in a pair of key conference doubleheaders. Then
Tuesday the team meets powerful N.C. State. If the Wildcats can achieve consistency, they may have a winning week.

In an exceptional afternoon of running, Jones captured the 110 meter high hurdles (15:33), the 400 meter run (51:22), the
400 meter high hurdles (58:16), and the 200 meter dash (22:97). Senior John Davis and junior Randy McManus crossed the
finish line together in the 5000 meter run after each had previously won races. The first place finish was awarded
to McManus who had won the 1500 meter run earlier in the afternoon. Davis, who had earlier won the 3000
meter steeplechase, was placed second at .02 seconds behind McManus’ 15:51.2. Other first place finishes were turned in by junior
Alec Driskill in the triple jump, Ray Sinclair in the shot put, Steve Ward in the discus, and freshman Clark
Carter in the pole vault. With a 6-1 record, the team is experiencing one of the most successful seasons in
recent history. The team hosts the Davidson Relays Saturday, and hopes to place well against the numerous competitors in that
event.

Baskin and sailing team take 2nd in Lake Norman regatta

By ERIC SANNER
Staff Writer

Consistency proved to be the key in a regatta here at the Davidson lake campus last Saturday. The Davidson sailing
team finished second of six teams, never placing below third in any of the ten races. Old Dominion University, which
won the regatta, was the only team that consistently bested the ’Cats. Senior Captain Stuart Baskin and hard-working crew Kathleen
Huff sailed well together and finished second in the A-Fleet. Baskin’s sharp maneuvers proved why he was chosen as an
All-District sailor last year. Holding the regatta at Davidson allowed more Davidson team members a chance to race. Three skippers
and three crews sailed in the B-Fleet for Davidson. Kathy Bell and crew Mary McArn participated in their first regatta.
Despite several mistakes, they demonstrated some excellent maneuvers. Gary Walton and crew John Stanback sailed tenaciously, while Bill Bankhead and
crew Becky Waters also demonstrated good tactics. The three groups finished second in the B-Fleet. This Saturday the Cats will
be at the University of Virginia. If they do well, they will qualify for the South Atlantic Intercollegiate Sailing Association
Dinghy Championship to be held on Lake Norman April 17-18.

JOHN V. WASHAM
Dispensing Optician
Both Soft and Hard Contact Lenses
Eye glass prescriptions filled
Wide selection of frames
Duplication of your present lenses
Eyeglass repair
Off Hwy 21, 1 mile south of Cornelius Restaurant
892-7500
