2—The Davidsonian—March 13, 1981

News at a Glance

One hundred and twenty-four freshmen were on the waiting lists of seven Patterson Court eating houses at the end of
self-selection two weeks ago. Only four people ended up on the general waiting list. There were 38 people on the
general waiting list last year. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, the reduced number on the general waiting list
indicates that more freshmen are “shot-gunning” a particular eating house by placing it as their sole choice. Emanon has the
largest waiting list with 38. Rusk and ETC follow with 28 and 22, respectively. All the houses with the exception
of PAX filled their needed quotas. PAX still has 10 openings left, according to PAX Treasurer Bruce Wallace. According to
Self-Selection Coordinator Betsy Thomas, “Self-selection this year went smoothly.” — Rick Graves

E.H. Little Library is still missing 175 of the 248 items it reported as lost after the 1979-80 inventory. Library
Director Leland Park said that although the number of missing items is up from the 217 reported in 1978-79, the
number is still low considering the library's circulation of 100,000. He added, “The Honor System does work, and here is
good proof.”

Barry Cheatham, former director of ARA Slater services for the College, is now working for Professional Food Management services at
Tulane University in New Orleans. Starting this summer, he will direct Tulane’s food service.

John Thomas Kimbrough, a Davidson mathematics professor until his retirement in 1974, died at the age of 77 on February
18. Kimbrough graduated from the College in 1926 and taught here from 1928 until he retired, except for two years
while he studied for his master's degree at the University of Chicago.

The pneumococcal vaccine experiment involving 165 Davidson students will be completed next week, according to Dr. James Parke of Charlotte
Memorial Hospital. The experiment, which Parke hopes will help him determine the best type of polysaccharide to use in the
vaccines, began last month. Parke was very pleased with student response to his request for volunteers. “I have never worked
with a more cooperative, interested group of people,” he said. Volunteers should report to the infirmary next week, Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday from 8:30 to 12:30. Students with Thursday appointments should come on Tuesday or Wednesday if possible. Volunteers will
receive a second blood test and $30 payment for their participation.

The National Science Foundation has awarded junior Warren Beck a grant for summer research at the College. He is the
first Davidson chemistry student to be awarded such a grant. He and a student assistant will study the effect of
sunlight on acetaldehyde, a constituent of car exhaust.

Sophomore Karl Pfefferkorn is recuperating after a 75-foot fall. See story page 11. (Cathey Bost)

Concrete slabs sent hurtling

Vandalism more frequent, dangerous

By FRANCES PALMER
Assistant News Editor

Vandalism at Davidson has reached an intolerable level, according to a letter issued Feb. 20 by Housing Director Bill Bolding.
Bolding cited instances of a concrete slab, trash cans, and other objects being thrown down Belk dorm’s center stairwells. “This
practice has already sent students to the infirmary for stitches,” the letter said. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze also cited
several incidents of vandalism including disconnected fire alarms, emptied fire extinguishers, and damaged ceiling tiles in Chambers.bers, as well as
stolen signs and broken lamps throughout the campus. According to Bolding, however, most of the increased vandalism has taken place
in Belk. In his letter, he reported “numerous complaints from freshmen regarding noise, damage, trashing of halls, fireworks, and harassment.”
Bolding and Meetze are particularly concerned with the safety risk that vandalism involves. Campus vandalism has already resulted in several
accidents, and many of the buildings around campus are not adequately prepared for fires because of damage to fire safety
equipment.

Meetze said he too is concerned about the damage to safety equipment such as fire extinguishers and alarms. Students have
emptied many fire extinguishers. Reported vandals must pay damage costs, and they sometimes face probation. However, most vandals are not
caught, and the College must provide funds for repair and replacement. These funds come from students’ fees. Meetze said maintenance
is figured proportionally into students’ costs each year. Although he did not know to what extent, Meetze was sure that
vandalism played a part in the most recent tuition hike.

Bolding said the school must do “whatever it takes to control the situation.” He plans to meet with the Conduct
Council next week to discuss possible solutions to the problem. According to Dean of Students Will Terry, “because students are
misusing and letting others misuse, the openness and freedom that students enjoy is just going to have to stop.” Bolding’s
letter suggested that possibilities to improve the situation might include “limiting drinking privileges, imposing quiet hours, and increasing hall patrols
by the campus police.”

However, Meetze does not foresee needing to impose new rules. “In a sense, I’m not complaining (about vandalism),” he said.
Vandalism takes place each year, and the severity “comes and goes in cycles.” He said he expects vandalism and regularly
budgets money to fix and replace damage. Meetze feels the new rules would not be particularly effective. “The only solution
I really see is peer group pressure,” he added.

Belk Hall Counselor Barry Mack said that vandalism in the dorm is “to the point of being ridiculous.” A reinforced
cement divider taken from one of the rooms on his hall was dropped from the Third East window prior to
the exam period. He said no one seems to know who is responsible but the person was “obviously drunk.” Mack
feels that vandalism is always worse in freshman dorms and some is to be expected. But he feels it is
getting “out of control,” and it is the responsibility of hall counselors to see that vandals are stopped.

Terry feels that part of the problem of vandalism on the part of intoxicated or frustrated students “is the general
carelessness with which students regard College property.” He added that many students feel they have a right to anything on
campus “regardless of a lock.” Meetze also feels there “is a direct relationship between alcohol and vandalism” and that only
a small percentage of the student body is responsible. However, Meetze and Terry added that outsiders also may be contributing
to the problem.

Hattie’s night special
All the pizza you can eat $3.99
5-7 O'clock
telephone: 892-8686

Check out the new keg prices
Old Milwaukee $36.00
Molson every night $.75 per bottle
