‘Record ReNews with Jon Glance

Bow Wow Wow

Jungle! See jungle! Go join your gang, yeah! City all over, go ape crazy!

One of the most exciting new albums to find its way onto my turntable in recent weeks has been the debut LP by a group with the unlikely name of Bow Wow Wow. This group is brought to you by former punk entrepreneur Malcolm McLaren (the same man who brought you the Sex Pistols back in ’76). This time, however, McLaren has forsaken nihilistic politics for tribal chants of unknown ethnic origin, a funky beat, and the intriguing voice of a fifteen-year-old girl.

This girl, whose name is never given on the album, is at first oddly reminiscent of Debra Harry or even a spaced-out Olivia Newton-John, with a lyrical but detached and airy voice. When she begins talking in the declamatory passages of the songs, however, you know this pubescent female is tough! While her pleas may be impassioned, it's a passion derived from sardonic humor and sensual needs, and not from frustrated puppy love. Fortunately, this girl gets what she wants without stooping to the “macho chick” stance of poseurs like Pat Benatar, to name only the worst example of the nasty women who mimic the juvenile silliness of heavy metal singers. The girl in Bow Wow Wow brings to her songs a breathy urgency that rivets the listener’s attention, but through seduction, not force.

The lead singer is very capably backed up by the talents of the musicians in Bow Wow Wow, including the better drummer and guitarist from Adam and the Ants. The drummer keeps up a primal stomp throughout the album, mixing complex polyrhythms with the frenzy of a voodoo Gris-Gris man. The guitarist borrows elements from the soundtracks of Spaghetti Westerns (remember The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly?), while the bass player tosses in some tasteful thumb-strumming into the final mix. The band also grooves in very primitive-sounding chants, sounding like modern Indian warriors with electrical instruments.

Even if the vocals and instrumentation weren’t as outstanding as they are, the lyrics of the songs would warrant attention. In keeping with the musical themes of primal with raw emotions, most of the songs are set in some jungle setting or another. Other songs have an underlying feeling of violence, such as the wonderfully abandoned “Elimination Dancing.” In “Hello, Hello Daddy (I'll Sacrifice You),” they address incest and your parent’s fear that you will kill them (or that you’ll get older, which is of course the same thing) in a subtle but exotic manner. Perhaps the best song on the LP is the biographical trance tune “Chihuahua,” which is comprised of the best qualities of the other songs on the record, including archetypal chants, the frantic approximation of a dog’s barking, and the most arresting performance by the lead singer (“... And the Greeks had a word for it And it went like this/ Oh Chihuahua Chihuahua Chihuahua”).

Overall, the Bow Wow Wow debut LP provides perfect music for partying, dancing, or just listening in awe. If this review has caught your interest, do yourself and your stereo a favor and go get this record by a group which by all rights should be “the next big thing.” See you at the record store.

SHALOM CHRISTIAN BOOKSTORE

Albums, Cassettes, Sheet Music, Gifts, Stocking Stuffers, Posters, Commentaries, Bibles, Apologetics

BARBER FOR MEN AND WOMEN

YOU NAME IT — WE'LL STYLE IT

NORTON’S

Pre-medical students
Current undergraduate pre-medical students may now compete for several hundred Air Force scholarships. These scholarships are to be awarded to students accepted into medical schools as freshmen or at the beginning of their sophomore year. The scholarship provides for tuition, books, lab fees, and equipment, plus a $530 monthly allowance. Investigate this financial alternative to the high cost of medical education.
Contact:
USAF Health Professions Recruiting
Suite GL-1, 1100 Navaho Drive
Raleigh, NC 27609
Phone collect 1-919/755-4134

Children’s Books & Gifts, Cards, BARBER SHOP
126 Main St.
PH 892-0166 MAIN STREET

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 6 November 1981