10—The Davidsonian—March 13, 1981

In Veritate Magna Vis

In an unprecedented move last week, Athletic Director Gene Bingham fired all Davidson coaches and staff (including himself) as part
of his massive revitalization plan. President I.M. Oblivious has appointed nice guy Charlie Slagel to coach all Davidson sports and
take on duties as Athletic Director. When reached for comment on his new position, Slagel said, “I may be slow,
but I’m a fast learner.” Slagel’s secretary will be Noni Mathews.

The Brick

Among those fired was Head Football Coach Yahweh Farrell. One of his bros and players, Gifford Piercy, commented, “I’m glad
he’s gone, he really hurt my Doughboys chances to go pro, talking me down to pro scouts and everything.” Mike
Dillon added, “If he hadn’t left, Davidson Football would have been history.” When others were asked to comment on the
situation, Shawn Stafford blurted out, “He wouldn’t play me enough, nor get me the ball so I could score. I
only averaged about twenty-seven minutes a game.” When asked to respond, Farrell said, “Shawn didn’t have a good attitude, he
didn’t have the team concept—he hated to play defense.” In fact, the general consensus around the campus was that all
ninety-two players were going to transfer if Farrell hadn’t been fired.

In an effort to cut down on the large number of traffic deaths occurring in front of the laundry, Physical
Plant Director Grover Meetze announced that the road will be converted into a walkway. “Hopefully,” he said, “this will further
inconvenience the students. We believe driving all the way around the Court should be a real pain, in fact, by
the time we're finished remodeling, the students will need Lewis and Clark and Sacagawea to find their ways around.”

The Hall Counselor Selection Committee, composed of a group of Banshee Indians, released their choices for the 81-82 season. In
a surprise move, Chief “Shooting Bull” Wall redshirted favorites Ed Whitesides, Ken Krieg, Bill King, and Hall Barnett, saying, “They
didn’t have the DCF credentials and were heard cursing on numerous occasions.”

We understand that Bucky “Don’t you like my great column” Murrell has purchased an entire set of weights for the
school to use. Boy, we really felt like dung after those girls wrote in their letters last week. We called
home and cried for hours. We've got a suggestion—you all stick to breaking tables and we'll stick to writing abusive,
funny columns.

BB & DB’s LIST OF CANDIDATES TO REPLACE EDDIE:
1) Charlie Slagel
2) Skip Brown
3) Elmer
4) David Shi
5) Idi Amin
6) George Wallace

Scot Myers ‘84

Women’s (Continued from page 9)

23 people collecting game stickers, we thought our chances were pretty good. One coke and an order of fries, however,
were all we won. Tuesday's performance at Disney World was the highlight of the tour.Our audience included an enthusiastic group
of Davidson students who picked an ideal day to visit the home of Space Mountain and Dumbo, the Flying Elephant.
Wednesday, we started on the last leg of the tour. After stopping for oranges to bring back as evidence that
we had indeed been to the land of sunshine, we headed north once again to Decatur’s Columbia Theological Seminary for
our Chorus's last concert. Many different emotions and events flavored the tour. The nervousness before every performance, the buoyant feeling
when a familiar face appeared in the audience, the sadness of bearing the news of Donald Plott’s death to the
alumni who knew him, the satisfaction of performing well after the months of practice, the fellowship among the members. And
of course the realization that we were contributing to our college and to the continuing growth of the Women’s Chorus.
If Mickey and Minnie Mouse appear among next year’s freshmen, you’ll know why. The Women’s Chorus Tour concert is Friday,
March 20 at 8:15 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

THE HAIR COTTAGE
Creative hair cutting for men and women
Owner/stylist: Jane Schenk
1757 E. Rocky River Road
By appointment only
892-5107

Forces of technology wavered, grew thin, and dark wizard Lodak collapsed. The few from the pole of magic imprisoned the
worshippers of reason with his evil might. Two of the Fatechs, Signal and a robot worker called Archie, escaped Lodak's
cage of sorcery and embarked on a mission to find Blackring's magic Runesword with which Signal hopes to drive Lodak
from the lands of technology. Searching for Blackring's castle, Signal and Archie wandered into underground caverns. Separated from his robot
companion by attacking trolls, Signal awoke, head ringing, to find himself in...

Ensemble (Continued from page 9)
...partly owned by Davidson alumnus Charles Cantrell. And over it all is the noise. Music pours from every window, live,
on the radio, or recorded. Hundreds of people carry radios and tape decks in the street. Jazz and blues pour
out into the streets from bars like Maise Bourbon (“Dedicated to the preservation of jazz”) and, in the evening, Preservation
Hall. And on top of all that, hundreds of thousands of people packed into a few city blocks are all
shouting madly.

Thursday, March 5—We have plenty of time between Marianna and Tallahassee, so we take a three-hour stopover at Panama City
Beach. The skies are clear, the sand is white, and the water is—well, not ice-cold, anyway.

Friday morning, the long trip home begins. The bus stops in Atlanta to let off everyone who lives in the
area—half the bus, it seems. The bus finally arrives in Davidson at 7:30, after eleven hours or so on the
road. Door to door, the trip is almost exactly two thousand miles long. The Wind and Jazz Ensemble tour concert
will be Tuesday at 8:15 in Hodson Hall.

SHALL WE SPLIT THIS ONE, MY BROTHER?
