2—The Davidsonian—April 10, 1981

News at a Glance

The final run-off for SGA elections was held yesterday. The results are as follows:

SENIOR CLASS SENATE: Andy Brown, President; Mott McDonald, Barry Mack;
SENIOR HONOR COUNCIL: Howard Browne, Stokes Peeples, Joan Redding;
JUNIOR CLASS SENATE: Tim Johnston, President; Gray Hampton, Tracy Thompson;
JUNIOR HONOR COUNCIL: Greg McFayden, Lucy Marshall, Danny Waddill;
SOPHOMORE SENATE: Julie Cheek, President; Lentz Ivey, Ester Kim;
SOPHOMORE HONOR COUNCIL: Katie Dagenhart, Terry Kurtts, Bobby Silver;
COUNCIL ON CAMPUS AND RELIGIOUS LIFE: Eric Crum, Buncie Hay;
STUDENT CONDUCT COUNCIL: Bob Barnes, Kathleen Huff;
REVIEW BOARD: Eric Crum, Brent Hilleary;
DEFENSE ADVISORS: Nicholas Viest and David Proffit;
SOLICITORS: Chip Christian and Bill Purcell.

Davidson debate teams took first and second place at the Carolina’s Forensic Association Championship March 20 through 22 at Appalachian
State University. The College was third in overall competition. The team of Robert Ervin and Bryan Duke, both juniors, became
the North and South Carolina champion. Sophomore Sherman Allan and freshman Mary Fant made up the second place team. The
following people won individual awards: Allen, top debate speaker award, first in extemporaneous speaking, and third in persuasive speaking; Duke,
third place debate speaker, fifth in extemporaneous speaking, and sixth in persuasive speaking; Ervin, second place debate speaker; Hal Martin,
first in dramatic interpretation and sixth in poetry reading; and Sarah Mumy, fifth in prose reading. Junior Jayne Ransom also
participated in the championship.

Thirty-eight seniors were elected to Phi Beta Kappa, a national honorary fraternity, on March 31. A student must have a
3.6 grade point average, be in the top 12.5 percent of his class, and exhibit “high scholarship, liberal culture, and
good character,” to join the fraternity. The honored seniors are:

Kathryn Elizabeth Adkins
Joyce Eileen Hoffman
Katherine Martin Allen
John Charles Holland
Stephen Williams Austin
Peter Manning Jordan
Lisa Mitchell Ballantyne
Harold Anthony Lloyd
Deborah Irene Bland
Ralph Salvatore Mosca
Robert Ford Campany
John Timberman Newcomb
Laurie Ellen Campbell
John Franklin Niblock
Katherine Christie Walter
Davidson Pharr
Martin Fillmore Clark, Jr.
Anna Catherine Phipps
Hugh Charles Crenshaw
John Maurice Porter
John Staige Davis, V
James David Reich, Jr.
Christopher Lee Elwood
David Franklin Rhodes
Robin Sara Eubanks
David Blaine Sanders
Robert Deaton Evans
Mark Edward Cook Shogry
Michael Patrick Fitzgerald
James Albert Tholen
William Francis Flanagan
Rhett Jeffrey Thompson
Eric Charles Frey
Elizabeth Ann Upchurch
Julie Sims Gibert
David Howard Waddill
Sharon Lee Gravett
David Stanley Walls

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) elected new officers last night. F&M President John Seehorn is president and Emanon President Keith
Hearle is chancellor. The new self-selection chairmen are PiKA President Terry Wade and ETC President Sandra Davis.

Live at the Double Door Inn

Faculty will lose six this year

By JIM POLLARD
Staff Writer

Six professors will not be returning to teaching at Davidson next fall. In addition, Religion Professor Richard Brubaker and Sociology
Professor Mike Dailey are waiting to find out if the College will rehire them.

Biology Professor Tom Daggy and Political Science Professor Winfred Minter plan to retire in the Davidson area. English Professor Charles
Cornwell has resigned in order to attend seminary. Physics Professor William Frey will be on sabbatical doing research at Oak
Ridge National Laboratory. Economics Professor Randy Kincaid will spend next year running his nursery and working in politics. Music professor
Donald Plott passed away on February 12.

Daggy “plans to be as busy as ever next year.” “There is a possibility I might do some teaching,” he
said. Daggy, a well-known entomologist, will continue his studies of insects. He hopes to publish several works which he has
not had time to finish. He will also continue working on the College herbarium, which presently contains 14,000 plant specimens.
Daggy anticipates a vacation at a cottage near Big Bend National Park and a visit to family members who live
in Mexico City. Daggy said of his Davidson career, “I really consider myself lucky to have been here for 33
years.” He added that he felt he was happier at Davidson than he would have been at a larger university.

Minter is retiring after this term. He will be “doing all those things I’ve always wanted to do,” he said.
Minter mentioned travel, reading, and writing as future areas of interest. Minter, who has been at Davidson since 1957, said
he has enjoyed teaching here. “I’ve had a very fine experience.”

Cornwell resigned from teaching at Davidson to attend Union Theological.Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, for either a three or four-year program.
“My leaving Davidson has nothing to do with Davidson. I don’t regret the time I’ve spent teaching,” Cornwell said. “I
would like to go into the parish ministry but it’s impossible to say exactly where I’ll end up,” he said.
Teaching “has given me some good practice for the pulpit,” he added. This Spring marks the fifteenth year Cornwell has
taught at Davidson.

Frey has tentative plans for a sabbatical next year. “I will be going to do research but the length of
time is uncertain... I will be gone for at least one term...” Frey said. He will be working at the
Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. The Oak Ridge Laboratory researches health and safety questions concerning radiation exposure. Frey said
his research is difficult to explain to the general public. He described it as “basic research on a microscopic scale”
concerned with “the reaction of radiation with any kind of matter.” Frey said information from his project can be extrapolated
to determine the effect of radiation on human beings.

Next year will be the second year of Kincaid’s two-year leave of absence from the College. Kincaid left last year
to run as the Democratic candidate for the ninth Congressional district of North Carolina. He was defeated by incumbent former
Davidson Chemistry Professor Jim Martin, a Republican. Kincaid said that the College requires him to give notice of his teaching
plans by September 1 of this fall. He would not elaborate. Kincaid misses teaching and is doing “some guest speaking
here and there” to keep his lecture skills sharp, he said. Kincaid is organizing a political action committee which will
raise campaign money for moderate Democrats at all levels of government. Kincaid might want to run for political office again
in the future. He said, “I’m keeping my options open right now.” Kincaid also runs a nursery in partnership with
former Economics Professor Robert Avinger. “It’s a wonderful business,” Kincaid said, though, “it’s a lot of hard work.”

Debate emerges over new eating house
By GRANT NAGY
Staff Correspondent

Juniors John McDowell and Jean Soracco head a group of students who are trying to set up a co-ed eating
club to move into either Richards or Bailey house next year. Richards and Bailey will be free for such use
after the College food service moves into the Commons this fall. The student group in favor of establishing a new
eating house and the Dean of Students Office conducted a survey last week to determine the level of student support
for a new eating house. McDowell said the final results of the poll are still not available, but students in
general seemed to favor the idea of forming a co-ed eating house. However, Patterson Court Council president Joni Seehorn said,
“I’m not really sure there’s enough demand.”

Some students and administrators question the need for a new eating house and think that a new house might harm
the rest of Patterson Court. “If there is a need for a new house, there will be one,” Dean of
Students Will Terry said, “but the conditions of the other houses come into play.” Several Patterson Court houses have experienced
financial difficulty because of low membership and rising costs. Adding another house “raises serious financial questions,” according to Business Manager
Bob Currie. “We must make certain we don’t destroy a house when we create one.” Currie explained that a new
club would drain the waiting lists of other court eating clubs. Waiting lists have been essential to the financial stability
of Patterson Court houses. “In recent years, there has been a practice of student members dropping out of houses during
the year. Also, there has been a tendency for more students to want a partial board plan.” Waiting lists have
helped houses “fill the gap” after drop-outs. The Commons will also probably draw some people off waiting lists, Currie added.
If students want to start a new house, Currie said, they must be able to ensure that it will operate
in the black. He estimated that $30,000 would be needed to equip and furnish Richards or Bailey. At least 75
students would need to make a two-year commitment as full-time members. Other possible uses of the houses include office space
for campus organizations like the Black Student Coalition.
