THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

EPC - Where are we going?

Now and then a latter-day Edison designs a car that gives phenomenal gas mileage, is non-polluting, and possesses an aesthetically
pleasing form. The trouble is it doesn’t go very far. The Educational Policy Committee’s revised proposals for a new core
curriculum are a bit like such a car. The committee has wisely removed some of the rigid requirements contained in
their original proposals, and the result is a simpler and more palatable design. But the question now is: is it
enough? Is the College going in any decisive direction with these proposals?

We are pleased with the EPC’s decision not to propose a requirement for every student to take an economics and
a philosophy course. This is in keeping with the present curriculum’s emphasis on the freedom of students to choose their
own courses. As EPC Chairman Price Zimmermann pointed out, removing the economics and philosophy requirements allows students to rely on
themselves and their advisors in making scheduling decisions. Such a personal approach is much more appropriate for a school as
small as Davidson.

This modification represents no change from the present curriculum, however. Even the proposal to allow only “basic” courses to fulfill
area requirements is not entirely new—in fact, it seems to be more of a return to a rigid curricular philosophy.
The truly innovative part of the EPC’s proposals is its proposal to develop international awareness through the study of foreign
languages and non-Western cultures. This is the part of the proposals that is intended to go somewhere new.

The proposal may promise more than it can deliver. According to the EPC, intensification of the lower-level foreign language courses
will allow students to complete four terms of work in three. This seems to overestimate Davidson students’ ability to absorb
passé simple, dictées, and L’Etranger at an ever-increasing rate. First, the trimester system made foreign language departments fit fifteen weeks’
work into ten. Now the EPC wishes to fit two years’ work into one. Anyone who has heard the groans
of language students under the present system will doubt the possibility of further intensifying the program.

But innovations in foreign language instruction will make this intensification possible, according to the EPC. Suggested innovations include special drills,
summer programs, a term devoted solely to one language, independent studies, even foreign language tables at meals. All of these
are excellent ideas and are sorely needed to revitalize traditional language programs not only at Davidson, but all over the
United States. Done well, these programs could have impressive results. But they require two things—staff and money. Staff for the
drill sessions, the independent studies, the travel arrangements. Money to pay the staff, to buy audio-visual materials essential to self-directed
learning, to provide scholarships for summer programs so that more than just the small percentage of students who do not
need to work in the summer can go.

If the College is willing to provide the resources, the new curriculum’s international focus could be exciting. Our present situation,
however, is one of limited resources and a 13:1 student/faculty ratio set by the Trustees which, we are told, will
not be “discussed” in the near future. This Fall President Samuel Spencer spoke of his plans for Davidson’s curricular development.
He pledged that the Administration would find the additional resources and staff required by a new curriculum. And he stated
that with a new curriculum there would be “inevitably a reduction of the student/faculty ratio.”

There are two scenarios here. In the first, the College has little room to innovate. In the second, innovation is
possible, with determination the only needed ingredient. Which scenario is real? If the EPC proposals are to be meaningful, the
College must begin to establish the second. Otherwise, despite the fancy rhetoric, both we and the curriculum will remain at
a standstill.

—Elizabeth Kiss and John Siman

The Campus Forum

CROP

To the Editors:

Every Tuesday from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. a small but persistent group of faculty and students join for lunch
in the 900 Room. Their meal consists of cornbread and beans or vegetable soup (which Dr. Krentz recommends). The dollar
charged for the meal goes totally to CROP, a fund-raising organization which helps finance already existing hunger and relief programs.

These people would like to extend an informal invitation to the Davidson community to join them anytime during the lunch
hour. Freshmen and new faculty members are especially encouraged.to come and get to know a varied group of Davidson people.
They are confident that all will benefit from the experience.

Danny Armistead '82
B-Ball

To the Editors:

How 'bout them Cats, huh?

Dave Banks '82
Junior Class Sports Fan

Vacation

To The Editors:

This letter is a plea to the administration as well as to students to show more interest in our calendar.
What could have been a pleasant break was butchered by our calendar-conscious administration. "But forsooth," we are told, "it was
a necessary evil forced upon us by the predetermined position of Labor Day, Thanksgiving, and other hallowed occasions." (Calvin would
have been proud.)

Wouldn't it be better to start classes before Labor Day, so that we do not have to sacrifice time at
Christmas? Or should we be content with a two-week break for the next two years? I think the former is
far more desirable in terms of academics, family matters, and social life.

In terms of academics, which at Davidson are paramount (supposedly), we would benefit in having more vacation time to complete
work assigned over the vacation. As it was, I found myself putting work off (what else?) until after the festivities,
but much to my surprise, there was no time to finish work before I was back in school. One week,
divided up into a few days before and a few days after Christmas, would help not only in preparing to
return to Davidson, but would give a little more time for preparation for Christmas itself.

For many people, Christmas is the only yearly activity in which the whole family participates. Now I realize that the
mere process of maturing involves becoming independent, but we are not yet at the point (where we will soon be)
that we are completely on our own. Because of this, these college years may be the last we spend as
a family at Christmas time.

Regardless of whether a person's friends are at school or at home, there is, with a short break, less time
to spend with either group. If one plans to spend the vacation with some Davidson cronies in Florida, he must
first return home to dispense with family rituals. If one has friends at other centers of higher learning throughout the
country, time to visit with them is limited by overriding family activities and differences in schedules. Friends who have long
Christmas breaks may feel no urgent need to get together, and by the time a "reunion" is planned, it may
be too late for the unfortunate Davidson gentleperson.

Bill Michel '83

Subscription

To The Editors:

Yes, I too would like to enrich my life with your comprehensive, factual, industrious, sophisticated, entertaining, intelligent, diversified, creative, precise,
direct, pointed, informative, clear, outspoken, witty, touching, friendly, printed, abrasive, meaningless, glib, trite, torturing, cold, thoughtless, tasteless, wasteful, uninformative, ignorant,
boring, stupid, one-track, fickle, dull, wordy, rhythmic, slapstick, floating, smelly, thin, established, dragging, moving, stopping, sad, curved, slipshod, cloudy, Yiddish,
retroactive, luminous, costly, open, cordial, causeworthy, scrappy, clockwise, boiling, deep-dish, archaic, parsimonious, wimpy, dubious, brotherly, profound, fishy, antiseptic, zoological, kindling,
smathering, conjunctive, upholstered, blunt, apt, sappy, chewable, redundant, redundant, overt, drawn, mangled, poo-poo, tailored, knighted, snow-bound, henpecked, yodel-ridden, mybon, eel-eyes,
over-theo, shen, publication.

Jon Lawry '82 (on leave)

EDITORS
Donald Caldwell

NEWS EDITOR
Glenn Kellum, John Krotchko

FEATURES EDITORS
James Barat

OPINIONS EDITOR
Jim Crowe

SPORTS EDITOR
Jean Soracco

BACK PAGE EDITOR
Elizabeth Kiss, John Simian, Margaret Jackson

PRODUCTION MANAGER
Anne Goodwin

ASST. FEATURES EDITOR
Jim Moore

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR
Jeff Mann, Fred Broadwell, Laurie Soper, Karen Sandlin

GRAPHICS ASSISTANTS
Jeff Dempsey, David Prettyman, Lisa Buckley, Bernadette Walter

PRODUCTION ASSOCIATES
Sally Neal, Mark Sheffield, Ralph Lasley

MANAGING EDITOR
Peter Hamston

BUSINESS MANAGER
Warren Lackey

ADVERTISING MANAGER
David McCurry

PHOTOGRAPHY EDITOR
Scot Myers

CIRCULATION MANAGER
DARKROOM TECHNICIANS

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and columns on any subject. We reserve the right to edit letters for clarity and length.
All letters must be signed. Deadline ordinarily is Tuesday night.

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic year (except over holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson
College. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 (office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription
rate: $8 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, NC.
