\ January 23, 1981—The Davidsonian—5

All-volunteer army provides sufficient national defense

Emily Partin ’80

While I firmly believe that the question of draft registration is a deeply personal, individual, moral one, a lot of
the debate about it has centered on another question—namely, is draft registration necessary? To answer this question, one needs to
take more than a quick look at today’s All-Volunteer Force (AVF). The shortage of manpower is not as acute as
some would have us believe. True, the Armed Services are not recruiting as many people as they would like. However,
Pentagon officials have pointed out that the services are at full strength because of a higher re-enlistment rate under the
AVF. Not quite as many people are entering the services, but the people who do are tending to stay longer.

Early registration would not save the U.S. a significant amount of time in the event of emergency mobilization. According to
a report by Selective Service Director Bernard Rostker, early registration is “redundant and unnecessary.” Without early registration, 100,000 draftees could
be delivered to the military within a month. According to Rostker, early registration would speed this up by only one
week. The Pentagon has said that it will be satisfied if new troops arrive within 2 months.

Another common argument for the draft is that minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden in the AVF. However, many prominent black
leaders are against the draft because they feel it would make things worse, not better, for minorities.

National interest makes mandatory draft necessary

Doug Wylie ’84

As the draft has once again become a very touchy issue and those radical views of the 1960s are rekindled
within us, one finds it difficult and unsettling to morally support the draft. By supporting such action most persons of
conscience often feel that they are in fact asserting their advocacy of war. This is a common misconception. Anti-draft interest
groups do their best to evoke the sympathy and compassion of every individual often not without exaggeration. But, if one
can look beyond arguments of draft opponents to the facts, one finds that the United States is simply defending its
principles by preparing to uphold peace. The United States is not trying to assume a warlike attitude, nor is it
planning to intervene in some Middle-Eastern skirmish.

The attacks of interest groups, specifically Libertarians, against the draft are way off the mark. The Libertarians claim that the
timing of registration was deliberately set close to the Christmas holidays in order to make it difficult to “organize any
opposition.” Last summer people had plenty of time to organize opposition, but I did not see any protesters.

Libertarians also assert, “the draft is a blank check for foreign intervention.” I believe that the United States has learned
its lesson on foreign intervention and can distinguish between necessary intervention and unnecessary ones like the Vietnam conflict or Russia’s
“Vietnam,” Afghanistan. Libertarians further insist that “conscription” and war represent the ultimate violations of individual liberty.” What about national liberty?
Without it, there is no individual liberty. The Thirteenth Amendment, Libertarians allege, declares that there shall be “no involuntary servitude,”
and they equate this with the draft. Has a peacetime draft registration suddenly become “involuntary servitude”? I was under the
impression that this referred to the same concept of slavery that Abraham Lincoln halted in the United States over a
century ago.

Utilitarianism, a theory which holds that decisions should be made to provide the greatest happiness for the greatest number of
people, is relevant to the issue of the draft. Accept the fact that the Utilitarian view now supersedes our natural
laws and rights. True, Utilitarianism can be abused and requires a healthy respect for minority rights. But, in the case
of draft registration, we are talking about issues far more important than saving one’s front yard. What dissenters must also
realize is that such a proposal does not deal only with individual rights. When we, as citizens, reject or support
an issue so nationalistic as a peacetime draft, other nations view this outcry as a rejection of national defense.

For example, the person whose yard is cut off when a new highway is being constructed may suffer but in
the long run he will receive just compensation, since a great number of people will get greater benefit from that
highway. Analogously, the draft is a highway that must go through to halt congestion, conflict, and ensure peace. Most of
us guys just happen to live on proposed highway territory. We must, in the case of our system as a
whole, accept the draft.Not a battle of morals. It answers on an even higher level, the backbone of our country
— gut nationalism. Is it possible that I am being outlandish in my reasoning? Maybe, but only in the sense
that I do believe how we live in America is rare and precious. It is. Let everyone read American Caesar.

State, national involvement needed
James Pollard ’84

My Boy! As a prospective student last year, I was impressed by the number and variety of student organizations at
Davidson. It is my feeling that involvement in diverse activities is a mark of intelligence in a person. However, I
find that Davidson students do not become involved in state and national issues. Certainly, we are busy and it is
understandable that our academic load impinges upon time that might normally be spent browsing through the paper. But we do
have considerable potential for positive contribution.

There are several issue-oriented campus organizations. The Y Student Service Corps is involved in environmental and social issues, and PIRG
offers an opportunity to work with a professional staff experienced in lobbying on consumer issues. PIRG’s Toxic Waste Forum next
Wednesday offers an excellent opportunity to become an active citizen. Toxic waste is an important issue. North Carolina is the
11th largest producer of toxic waste in the U.S., yet it lacks a comprehensive waste disposal policy. The uncontrolled disposal
of toxic waste is a serious health hazard which has the potential of causing untold human suffering.

N.C. State Environmental Science Professor Don Huisingh will speak at the Open Luncheon at 1 o’clock on the hazards of
toxic waste. Huisingh is chairman of the Governor's Office of Toxic Waste Management and one of the developers of the
state’s soon-to-be-implemented toxic waste management program. A Washington chemical lobbyist will speak at 5 o’clock in the 900 Room on
actions being taken by industry to manage toxic wastes. There will also be a dinner and panel discussion at 6.
Dinner tickets are $2.25 and are available at the Union Desk. The forum should be extremely rewarding for all who
attend.

The Davidsonian welcomes columns on any subject. We reserve the right to edit for clarity, length, and accuracy. Call Opinions
Editor James Barrat (-6257) if interested. Columns do not necessarily represent the views of Davidsonian editors or staff.

Blacks in the military. Currently, the active forces are roughly 17% black, yet blacks comprise only 6% of the officer
rank. Many blacks feel that the draft is really an attempt to bring more white, middle-class men into the Army
so that these draftees can fill officer ranks, relieving the Army of the necessity to promote blacks. It is also
interesting to note that although many claim that the draft would make things fairer to blacks, during the Vietnam era
when there was a draft, black combat deaths amounted to more than 40% of those killed.

Would the draft increase the intellectual capacity of our armed forces? Since the draft ended in 1971, the amount of
high school graduates in the military has risen 9%, and standardized intelligence test scores of AVF recruits have shown a
dramatic climb. One can also question the need for more U.S. manpower. Although proponents of the draft are eager to
point out the fact that the Soviet Union outnumbers the U.S. two to one in military personnel, they overlook a
few other important facts. First, the Soviet Union employs military personnel for what the U.S. considers civilian jobs. Therefore, many
of their “soldiers” are performing functions crucial to the daily operation of their society and cannot be mobilized. Secondly, the
Soviets use a large proportion of their troops to patrol the Chinese border. Thirdly, a comparison of active duty military
personnel shows that NATO forces number 5.1 million and Warsaw Pact forces number 4.8 million.

It is true that military pay is ridiculously low. But the answer to this is not to draft people, thereby
forcing them to work for low pay. If we increased pay, then maybe we could attract more and better-qualified people
into the military, and build a better AVF. These facts may be irrelevant to some people. One may still be
in favor of registration and the draft regardless of these facts. Or, one may be against it for entirely different
reasons; i.e., one may oppose it on moral or philosophical grounds. Nevertheless, it is important to realize that the question
“Are registration and the draft necessary?” should not be answered with an automatic “yes.”
