THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
February 6, 1981

Professors’ committees recommend compensation increase
By MARVIN OVERBY
Staff writer

Davidson College must increase its faculty compensation. That is the bottom line of a report released recently by a joint
sub-committee of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the faculty's Professional Affairs Committee (PAC). Physics Professor Bob Manning
of the AAUP and Philosophy Professor Lance Stell of the PAC prepared the report.

The report praised the President and Trustees for last year’s salary increases, which raised the percentage of total College expenditures
used for faculty compensation for the first time since 1966. However, it stressed that last year's increases did not solve
the problem. For next year, the report listed five recommendations. They are:

1) That the President and the Trustees report to the faculty whether the College is committed to stopping and reversing
the continual decline in the faculty's real income during the past 14 years;
2) That in the future there be an across-the-board salary increase annually offsetting the rise in the Consumer Price Index,
with all merit increases added to this base;
3) That the $6,500,000 targeted for faculty endowment under the 1987 Program be increased to offset inflation;
4) That assistant professors’ salaries, which are the lowest among North Carolina institutions, be given top priority in granting increases;
5) That the College aim to quadruple its endowment over the next ten years.

The PAC will present the report to the faculty next Tuesday. If the faculty endorses it, President Samuel Spencer will
present it to the Board of Trustees later this month. The Advisory Council on Finance and Development has already endorsed
the recommendations and will include them in its report to the Trustees, Council Chairman Earl MacCormac said.

Faculty compensation has declined substantially in real value in the last decade, according to the report. There was an 18.9
percent drop in real salary for all professorial ranks. The mean salary for all ranks fell from $11,435 to $9,016
in constant dollars. “I don’t think anyone is starving,” PAC Chairman Hansford Epes said, “but I wonder if the level
is such as to allow all of us to live reasonably well.”

The decline is particularly striking on the assistant professor level. Assistant professors make only 70 percent in constant dollars of
what they made in 1966. Davidson’s compensation level is still in the top 5 percent of the nation’s four-year undergraduate
schools, the report points out, but such schools on the average pay less than any other type of institution, including
community colleges. Moreover, Davidson competes for (See page 11)

Kenneth Wooden, children’s rights activist, speaks tonight in the 900 Room.

College likely to keep ARA; Currie expects bids in future
By MARK BARRETT
Special to The Davidsonian

ARA Food Service submitted its proposal Wednesday for catering the snack bar, 900 Room, and new dining Commons next year.
Several students have called for the College to put the contract up for bids. Yet the College still has not
indicated whether ARA will have any competitors for Davidson’s food service contract.

Business Manager Bob Currie said Wednesday the administration plans to decide what kind of food service program it wants before
determining who will provide the program. After making the decision, Currie said, the administration will choose between having an in-house
or a contracted food service. He said the ARA proposal is the “starting point” and that others will probably not
be considered unless the administration deems ARA’s proposal inadequate. ARA has held Davidson’s contract since 1957.

Currie said, “It might be most prudent to get into the new facility with ARA with the goal of getting
bids after the first year.” The College will probably seek bids periodically once the Commons opens, Currie said.

Several members of the Food Committee, a panel of SGA Senators and freshman hall representatives set up to air food
service complaints, urged Currie at their Tuesday meeting to seek proposals from other food service companies immediately. Freshman SGA Senator
Lentz Ivey maintained “it’s a natural process of good business to go out and ask.”people for other [bids].” ARA School
and College Service Division Vice President Jack Schwabeland and ARA District Manager John Packer said their proposed freshman eating plan
contains the following changes:

—a new 14 meal “mini” plan (changed from 12 meals) costing $990 per year, up from $883.
—a rise from $1015 to $1090 per year in the cost of the 21 meal “maxi” plan.
—unlimited seconds on all items except special “premium entrees.”
—at least one free steak or other premium entree per week, available at any meal.
—a breakfast cereal and fruit (See page 11)

Zimmermann says ‘We'll do all we can’
Recommendations well received
By ELIZABETH KISS
Editor

‘We are committed to doing all we can to raise faculty salaries,’’ Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said
in discussing the AAUP-PAC faculty compensation recommendations. The central issue for Zimmermann and other administrators was the extent of the
“all we can.” Davidson's financial problems are found nationwide, in all educational and charitable institutions, Zimmermann pointed out. Davidson is
even more fortunate than some, since North Carolina’s cost of living level is among the lowest in the 50 states,
he added.

The marked decline in assistant professors’ salaries was “not by design,” Zimmermann stressed. Indeed, the administration has had “a policy
of skewing increases more to assistant professors.” This year “it’s pretty certain that the assistant bracket will get extra attention,”
he said. Last year the Trustees rejected College President Samuel Spencer’s proposal for a 5 percent across-the-board salary increase, while
granting merit increases averaging 13.1 percent.

“We will always be behind the major universities in salary scale,” Zimmermann said, although he pointed out that many universities
require professors to take greater teaching loads. UNC-Charlotte professors, for example, teach 12 hours a week on average, while Davidson
professors teach nine.

There is no simple solution to the problem of acquiring additional funds for salary increases. But the College has only
two flexible areas of income: tuition and gifts. Tuition obviously cannot be increased indefinitely, Zimmermann said. “We are in a
market- (See page 11)

Salaries: Davidson faculty pay in constant 1966 dollars
The compensation report recommendation for an annual across-the-board salary increase offsetting the rise in the Consumer Price Index has “no
chance” of passing at the Board of Trustees meeting this month, Zimmermann said. “There is a strong sentiment among some
of the Trustees for making all increments merit increments and for not having across-the-board increases,” he said.

Profs vote to shelve EPC proposals
By JOHN SIMAN
Editor

In a special meeting held Tuesday, the faculty voted to indefinitely suspend consideration of the Education Policy Committee’s (EPC’s) proposals
to revise the curriculum. The vote, described as “unexpected” by Academic Vice President and EPC Chairman Price Zimmermann, concludes a
year and a half long EPC project. The EPC began work on its proposals in September 1979.

Indefinite suspension essentially curtails the tabling of a proposal. However, while a motion to table is not debatable, a motion
to suspend is. Still, there was only minimal discussion of the motion before the faculty passed it by a sizable
majority under “very amicable” conditions, according to German Professor Hansford Epes. (Faculty meeting procedures prohibit mention of the numerical margin
of the motion’s passing.)

place situation. The market sets the price people will pay for an education.” Gifts are also more and more difficult
to obtain in an inflationary era, and capital gains often do not keep pace with inflation. Davidson’s past fiscal conservatism
has hurt its present financial situation, Zimmermann said. The College did not work to build an endowment until the last
few decades, relying instead on fundraising for specific projects. “We did not get the money when it was easier to
get,” Zimmermann explained. Northeastern schools who are doing better financially “have bigger endowments and richer alumni.” However, the Trustees’ decision
to change investment firms last year indicates their concern that Davidson improve the management of its assets, Zimmermann pointed out.
The compensation report expressed that the (See page 11)
