THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 17
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
March 13, 1981

John Kresse of the College of Charleston was named Davidson's head basketball coach today shortly before press time. Kresse’s record
at Charleston was 42-16.

Coach Ed Biedenbach fired
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The College notified Head Basketball Coach Eddie Biedenbach on March 1 that his contract would not be renewed. Assistant coach
Marv Kessler was also dismissed. Biedenbach was Davidson’s seventh head coach in ten years. Athletic Director Gene Bingham said the
search for a replacement would begin immediately but he was unable to mention specific names because many of the prospects
were still involved in post-season tournaments. Biedenbach declined to comment on his dismissal.

The Wildcats’ 13-14 record this year was Biedenbach’s best in his three seasons at Davidson. He compiled a cumulative record
of 29-51, with records of 8-19 and 8-18 his first two years. Announcement of the dismissals followed Davidson’s 90-77 upset
loss to Marshall. The loss disqualified the team in the first round of the Southern Conference tournament. However, Bingham said
the firings were “not a matter of wins and losses.” He said he began to consider Biedenbach’s dismissal in January
after senior Captain Todd Haynes told him several players would consider leaving Davidson if Biedenbach were not fired when his
three-year contract came up for renewal this year. Bingham then interviewed every player. Bingham described the coach-player conflict to the
Board of Trustees at their February meeting. The Board voted to dismiss Biedenbach at the end of the season.

According to the players, the conflicts arose when Biedenbach gave Kessler too much decision-making power. This led to “a lot
of confusion in practices and timeouts,” sophomore John Carroll said in a March 2 Charlotte Observer interview. “They were second-guessing
each other all the time [Continued on page 11].”

ARA to go; College will run own food service
By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor

The College plans to replace ARA food services with its own dining program. Business Manager Bob Currie, in a statement
issued Tuesday, said the College is presently looking for a food service director to set up a program by next
fall. If the College is unable to find a director by June 1, ARA’s contract will be extended one more
year, he said. The reason for the change, according to Currie’s statement, is to “give us control over all aspects
of the service and enable us to concentrate on quality as a primary objective.” Davidson ARA Director Wes Goodman declined
to comment on the College’s decision.

Currie said in an interview that he was unsure whether the change would result in lower costs to students. He
added that running its own service would probably not produce significant savings for the College. The decision follows an investigation
conducted by Duke University Dining Director Oscar Berninger at the school’s request last December. Berninger recommended that the College operate
the dining facilities itself, preferably beginning with the completion of the new Commons this summer. The college-controlled program will not
affect the present snack bar and 900 Room services, according to Currie’s statement.

Currie emphasized that the new Commons is not designed to replace Patterson Court eating houses. “Although the Commons is built
sufficiently large to take care of the entire student body in the long-range future if this should become necessary, it
is not designed to undermine the fraternities and clubs,” he stated. “On the contrary, the new director will be expected
to seek ways to aid the fraternities and clubs in whatever ways they may desire.” The College’s decision “is not
a criticism of ARA or of contract service in general,” Currie concluded. He commended ARA for its helpfulness and loyalty
to the College through a difficult ‘transition’ period between facilities.

Board of Trustees accepts recommendation for faculty compensation increase of 14%
By TIM WHALEN
Assistant News Editor

Faculty and staff compensation will increase by 14 percent next year. The Board ofTrustees approved President Samuel Spencer’s recommendation for
a compensation increase at their meeting February 26-28. The student comprehensive fee was also increased by 14 percent. Last year
the Trustees granted the faculty and staff a 12.5 percent increase in the compensation budget, keeping pace with inflation. Raises
were granted to individual faculty and staff members on a merit basis. This year’s increase will be distributed among individual
members of the faculty and staff solely on a merit basis, Spencer said. Some employees may receive a raise greater
than 14 percent, some less. The Faculty Advisory Council on Finance recommended to Spencer an across-the-board faculty and staff compensation
increase equivalent to the rise in the Consumer Price Index (CPI). Spencer said that although the Trustees are concerned about
the effects of inflation on faculty and staff compensation, the increase bears no direct relation to the 12.4 percent rise
in the CPI last year. He added that the Trustees disagree in principle with across-the-board raises without reference to merit.
Faculty Advisory Council Chairman Earl MacCormac said that during his committee’s meeting with the Trustees, “the Trustees concurred enthusiastically with
our recommendations that the quality of Davidson College not be diminished through failure to increase educational expenditures including compensation sufficient
to meet the ravages of inflation.” He added that going into the meeting he “expected some resistance, but there was
none.” He expects faculty and staff compensation to rise with inflation in the future. Craig said that he could not
predict if the Trustees will ever favor across-the-board cost of living increases because he cannot foresee all of the variables
involved. He added, “The Committee did not change anything that the president recommended,” implying that the president’s recommendations, which are
not public, differed from the faculty’s recommendations.

By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

The Board of Trustees set the College’s 1981-82 comprehensive fee at $7075 at their meeting February 26-28. This is a
14 percent increase over the current fee of $6200. Two years ago, the Trustees voted for a 9 percent fee
increase, and last year for a 12 percent increase. President Samuel Spencer and Comptroller Robert Davidson said they fear yearly
increases will be necessary as long as inflation continues to grow. This year’s rise in college fees is “the most
dramatic increase generally (nationwide) that we’ve seen,” Davidson said. “We’ve tried to keep the increases below average as far as
private schools are concerned,” Davidson added. According to an article in the March 1 Charlotte Observer, increases are commonly 15%
or more. The rising cost of energy and utilities is a major reason for the fee increase, Davidson said. Another
is the increases in employee compensation necessitated by inflation. Davidson cited the expansion of the computer center as another expensive
but necessary cost to the College. Spencer added that the library’s book acquisition policy also raises College costs. The library
acquires the same number of books each year, but due to inflation the cost of the books increases annually. The
College’s increasing fees apparently have not affected the number of applicants, according to Admissions Director John Griffith. Griffith said that
at this time last year the Admissions office had received 1520 applications, while this year they have received a record
1625 applications. The socio-economic background of applicants is similar to last year’s in spite of the increase in tuition, Griffith
said. A recent letter to students’ parents stated that financial aid will be increased to alleviate the impact of the
increase on the students with established financial need. Griffith said that so far Davidson has been able to meet 100%
of the established need, and he is confident that it will continue to do so with the help of federal
loans and grants. Should federal aid decrease due to budget cutbacks, Griffith said the College will still have better financial
aid resources than most schools. He said the College is considering developing its own loan program as one alternative to
federal funds.

Donald Plott died February 26. (Music Dept.) See story page 3.
