6—The Davidsonian—March 27, 1981

Cat tennis team rebounds from UNC loss, wins four straight to stand at 10-1

By SCOTT BEAVER
Staff Correspondent

The Davidson men’s tennis team exhibited powerful performances as it stroked to four straight victories during the past week. The team record now stands at 10-1. Davidson defeated Wooster, East Stroudsburg, and Washington and Lee by scores of 9-0 and MIT by 8-1. The Wildcats got good play in both the singles and doubles categories. Jay Gepfert, Mark Nottingham, Nevins Todd, and Victor Taylor each currently have records of 9-2. Rick Johnston stands at 8-3, while Nick Petrou is 8-2. The doubles teams of Gepfert-Johnson and Petrou-Taylor are 5-1. The Nottingham-Todd combination has played to a record of 5-2.

Frank also stated, “The most satisfying win for us this last week had to be Washington and Lee.” Last year Washington and Lee defeated Davidson by a score of 5-4. Frank continued, “The reason we won was, as much as anything, the fact that the guys went out there and really jumped on them early before they could get into the match. You have to like that.”

“Naturally I’ve been pleased with the play thus far,” said Frank. “The thing I’ve been trying to impress upon the team is that the most important thing at this point in the season is to get ready, both mentally and physically, for the conference part of the season.”

The Wildcats open their Southern Conference schedule this Saturday with a pair of important matches. The team faces the Citadel at 9 a.m. and VMI at 2 p.m. “We always have a good, tough match with the Citadel, and all of these conference matches are important for the purpose of seeding in the conference tournament,” said Frank.

In the remainder of the season’s schedule, Davidson will face primarily conference matches. “There will be lots of times when we have two or three other conference teams coming in, and we'll play two, even three, conference matches in two days. The pressure will really be on,” Frank added.

Victor Taylor lunges for the ball. His record stands at 9-2 for the season. (Michael Kehs)

Track team finishes second in five-team meet

By CHRIS TIERNAN
Staff Writer

Davidson unexpectedly hosted a five-team track meet last weekend. Snowfall in Boone caused Appalachian State University to switch the scheduled competition to Davidson for warmer weather and better track conditions.

The Davidson team fared well on its home track, placing second overall ahead of Carson-Newman (50 points), Wake Forest (five points), and Radford (one point). Appalachian was the clear winner, outscoring all the other team totals combined with 184 points.

Individual wins were scored by Randy McManus in the 1500 meter run (4:02.89) and by senior Dick Jones in the 400 meter intermediate hurdles (53.8). McManus also finished fourth in the 5000 meter run and Jones took a fourth in the 110 meter high hurdles. Second-place finishes by Dave Nichols in the hammer (142 feet, six inches) and Alec Driskill in the triple jump helped push Davidson ahead of Carson-Newman. John Davis hurdled his way to a third-place finish in the 3000 meter steeplechase and also placed fifth in the 5000 run. Other third-place finishes were turned in by shot putter Ray Sinclair, sprinter Leonard Walker in the 200 meter dash, and by Davidson's 440 and mile relay teams. Sophomore Dave Stosur turned in a solid individual performance in the 800 meter run by breaking the two-minute barrier with a time of 1:59.62. The three wins pushed the Davidson record to 5-1 for the season.

Some results of the Mary Washington/Washington and Lee meet of March...14 were incorrectly reported last week. The correct results are as follows:

1500 meters:
1. Bart Landess
2. Randy McManus
3. Frank Ivey.

5000 meters:
1. John Davis
2. Bart Landess
3. Robert Teer.

800 meters:
1. Randy McManus.

(Michael Kehs)

Hill takes two from Appalachian State

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Sophomore Marian Hill gave Davidson women’s track watchers something to cheer about last Saturday as she took two firsts in a track meet against powerful Appalachian State University. Appalachian won all other eleven events, gaining 86 points, while Davidson accrued a respectable total of 45.

Hill won the 1500 meter run with a time of 5:18.29 and the 3000 meter with a time of 11:03.73. In the same two events, sophomore Merris Hollingsworth followed with second-place finishes with times of 5:34.54 and 11:57.48 respectively.

Junior Cindy Hendricks placed third in the high jump at four feet four inches, second in the javelin throw at 84 feet, seven inches, and fourth in the 100 meter dash with a time of 15.26 seconds. Hendricks lost the javelin throw by a mere seven inches, although she had never thrown a javelin before the meet.

Sophomore Nancy Stoudt placed in three events. She took third in the long jump (14 feet, 11 and one half inches), third in the shot put (25 feet, five and three quarters inches), and third in the 200 meter run.

Those who grabbed second-place finishes in other events were Beth Bryant in the 100 meter hurdles (19.63 seconds), Elizabeth Smiley in the 400 meter hurdles (1:36.55), Laura Hills in the 400 meter run (1:06.18), and Barb Ashley in the 800 meter run (2:33.77).

Coach Lisa Boyer said, “A lot of our times in the meet last weekend were better than the results from last year and better than the times we’ve had in practice.” Boyer continued, “For example, Barbie Ashley took 10 seconds off of her practice time in the 800 meter.”

The squad faces Lynchburg on Saturday in the second meet of the season.

Golfers capture easy win over W. Virginia Tech in opener

By PAUL GRIFFITH
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team opened its season on March 13 with a decisive victory over West Virginia Tech. The team went on to tie for fifth place out of fourteen teams in the Dunlop Tournament in Gaffney, South Carolina. Senior Brett Storm was the top Davidson finisher in the tourney.

The Wildcat golfers are led by captain L.D. Simmons and Brett Storm. The two seniors are currently vying for the number one position on the team. Coach Thom Cartmill said that they “are running neck-and-neck at the moment.”

Storm and Simmons are followed by senior Mark Shogry at the number three spot, sophomore Tom Haller at number four, and freshman Dave Lincoln at number five. Sophomore Bob Whalen, junior Mott McDonald, and senior Ed Imbrogno are battling for the sixth spot.

Coming up on the team’s schedule are dual matches against Western Carolina on March 27 at Raintree Country Club in Charlotte and a tournament at Elon College on March 30 and 31. The team spent the spring break vacation at Crystal River, Florida, where each team member played an average of 27 holes a day.

NEW LONGER HOURS
Monday, 11 am to 2 pm
Tues-Thurs, 11 am to 8 pm
Fri-Sat, 11 am to 9 pm

Buy 1 Taco—Get 1 FREE!
COUPON
1 Free Taco with purchase of another
Limit six
OFFER GOOD THRU MARCH
Must have coupon to receive free taco
892-7415
Hwy. 115 Cornelius, across from the 7-11