| Field Hockey on the comeback trail, page 13.

A reply to preps in Pakistan, page 15.

| ~ Volume LXXI, Number 5

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 16 October 1981 |

Problems with student noise

Davidson town council considering noise ordinance

Town and gown clashed last Tuesday as about a half dozen irate residents of North Main Street presented a petition
signed by 33 people to the Town Council asking for a “more complete noise ordinance.” They want the ordinance primarily
to restrict noise from student parties.

The Town Council voted unanimously to appoint a committee of approximately five people to study the complexities and legal requirements
of a noise ordinance.

Davidson currently has no noise ordinance.

Mayor Nancy MacCormac said that she will form the committee by early next week. Residents, College officials, town officials, and
students will serve on the committee. Mayor MacCormac said she will ask Dean of Students Will Terry to appoint students
to serve on the committee.

SGA representatives intend to speak with Mayor MacCormac about the possible ordinance.

Mary Fetter Strough of 612 North Main Street started the petition in response to an outdoor band party at the
Sigma Phi Epsilon (SPE) house at 609 North Main Street held on September 17. But that party is not the
only problem. Residents are also unhappy about noise on campus and from perimeter housing as well as from both off-campus
fraternities. Retired English Professor Charles Lloyd of 511 North Main Street said, “I refuse to go into hibernation like a
troglodyte to hear myself think.”

Mrs. Strough said after the Town Council meeting, “Students must realize that the whole town does not revolve around hard
study and raucous play.”

A letter she wrote accompanying the petition asked the Town Council to “prohibit outside amplified music at all hours in
all neighborhoods. Lower the accepted decibel level for outdoor events at the college. Move up the noise cut-off times to
10 pm on weekdays and 11 pm on weekends. See that students living off campus realize that better behavior is
expected of them.”

Mayor MacCormac said that the process of enacting a noise ordinance is “somewhat complex.” Officials must conduct a noise survey
in the town and have state officers train town officials on how to use measurement equipment.

Mayor MacCormac said that she and Associate Dean of Students Sue Ross attended a workshop in Charlotte on enacting local
noise ordinances. Charlotte recently updated their noise ordinance.

Mayor MacCormac couldn’t esti-

[Please jump to page 5]

Davidson Mayor Nancy MacCormac
