The Devoidsonian—5

Zimmermann ties knot, reaches the pinnacle of married life

By CHONGU TSE-TSE
Staff Hottentott

Vice President for Academic Affairs T.C. Price Zimmermann has been climbing mountains and surmounting administrative obstacles all his life. As usual, he is planning another string of alpine excursions for the summer. This summer, however, he is not going alone.

Price Zimmermann is married and is taking his wife.

Zimmermann first met Margaret during his assault on The Matterhorn in Disneyland last summer. She was operating the bobsleds when he suddenly became tangled in his Swiss seat. “I wasn’t really stuck,” he said, “but I found her aesthetically pleasing, so I let her untangle my crampons and loosen my bow tie.”

Zimmermann later brought Margaret to Davidson, where they climbed water towers and spent several evenings examining his medieval print collection. Zimmermann was impressed by her “well-rounded academic outlook,” her “four terms of French” and her P.E. Mountaineering credits. It was love at first rappel.

Zimmermann knew Margaret was the one when he showed her around his Chambers office chateau. Not only did she appreciate his stuffed yellow-bellied marmoset from Nepal, but “she was the only woman I ever met who liked the pop tart!” he said.

The two decided to “tie the bowline” in March and said their vows above an admiring crowd on the DCPC steeple.

Everyone held his breath as Price and Margaret plummeted to their wedding ceremony on DCPC’s steeple last March 15. As his bride floated toward him, Price donned academic robes and recited his vows in German, Latin, Greek, and Chinese. “TCPZ’s always had such a flair for ceremonies,” Ava Spencer noted later.

After a relatively routine honeymoon in Tahiti, Zimmermann took off alone for the Sierra Nevadas during spring break. But thinking of Margaret while “chimneying” caused him a number of painful accidental “finger jams.”

After his return, Zimmermann decided to take Margaret mountaineering with him this summer. Margaret originally wanted to learn by climbing Space Mountain in Disney World but Zimmermann objected. “I don’t like Florida,” he said. “It lacks class, it’s too hot and it’s bad for my sinuses.”

Zimmermann plans to seek out “cleaner air” by teaching his wife to climb ivory towers in Massachusetts. “They’re covered with ivy,” he said, “but the extra challenge will be good for her. She has a lot of learning to do and I’m the one to teach her.”

Asked if they were planning on children, Zimmermann said, “I detest the little tykes. They’re fiscally imprudent and they’d soil the Persian rugs.” Margaret disagreed saying that hearing the patter of little TCPZ’s around the house would be “really swell.”

The couple has decided to shelve the child proposal indefinitely, in order to avoid putting any “pinch grips” on their marriage.

(See page 10)