THE DEVOIDSONIAN

Founded 1981

It’s for fun

Half of the term papers are due tomorrow. So are all the late theses and independent study projects. Exams start Saturday.

We could all definitely use some humor.

That is the purpose of the Devoidsonian. For 29 weeks out of the year, the Davidsonian tries to inform, to analyze, to probe. One week we just have fun. Occasionally, the satire may have teeth—as it should—but we hope none of what you see here conveys anything but the good-natured humor with which it was written. Any complaints concerning taste should be addressed to me.

Good luck in next week’s gauntlet, and a happy season of sunburns and paychecks to you all.

And now, for a shamelessly personal message—my thanks go to the Davidsonian staff. For wee hour and twelfth-hour dedication, you can’t be beat. Thanks for putting up with deadlines, smelly chemicals, and my Thursday morning spaciness. I will not miss the lack of sleep, but I will miss all of you.

— Elizabeth Kiss

Things

Sure. We celebrate our Mothers and our Fathers and our houseplants and the campus dogs. We talk about Black people and White people and Women and Men. We praise the azaleas.

But look around. Patiently, silently, the Things surround you. The extension cord curls under your desk. Your shoes sit quietly side by side while you sleep. Your rugs meekly let you walk all over them.

Despite the atrocious treatment they receive, Things never rebel. Every day, millions of toasters and hair dryers are uncomplainingly electrocuted. Every day, all over the nation, spoons are indiscriminately plunged into scorchingly hot or bloodcurdlingly cold liquids and mushes. Every day pencils are cruelly ground up, and records are twirled till they’re silly with dizziness.

Perhaps one day Things will rise up against their animate oppressors. Perhaps Thing Lib will be the final frontier.

But let us make that terrible day unnecessary. Let us sensitize ourselves to the plight of Things. It’s not hard.

Ask your chair’s permission before you sit down. Don’t manhandle your toothbrush. Don’t slam the door to your post office box.

Smile at a Thing today.

—Zsizsi

Song for the season

‘T was Maymonth, and the Wildcat(te)s Did cram desponding in the Braire All heatly were the campus dogs! All smelly was the sludgy maire!

And Sam, and Sue, and Price, and Will Prayed for students’ impending scoot While Bill made plans to renovate His domicile with year-end loot.

In this, the hurting time of year, How somlent all the students are— KA, NOW, and BSC Live in nersperate harmony —

Beware the Vivarine, my child! Most wawful lure to trooping eyes Pop not that “S,” forever shun The caffein-clouded paradise.

For think, in just a tittle’s time Exammish things you'll put away And fill new wineskins with new wine And go badonking on your way

— Zsizsi

DAVIDSON BIRTH CONTROL INFORMATION

Campus quirks

LSD

To the Editor:

Hey, man. Did you know ‘doo dads’ spell ‘spap oop’ upside down? Dig it? Pretty cool, eh?

Check out the package. It’s cosmic.

Love and Zen,

Tom Pafford ’83

KKK

To: The Editor Re: Activities of the BSC of Late

Be it known to all students of the recent formation of a new fraternity, consisting solely of male members of the BSC, known as the Kappa Kappa Kappa fraternity. The tri-kaps (or trikas, as they are affectionately called) celebrated their charter by burning Gov. Wallace in effigy. Effigy, North Carolina, is the reported site of the first Trika rally.

Be it also known of the controversy aroused by the charter, that of sex discrimination. Female BSCer’s protested by wearing pink-and-green ribbons during the burning. Also appearing were the Trammps, performing their hit, “Disco Inferno.”

Be it further known of the reverse discrimination suit filed by Davidson non-BSCer’s.

Subsequently, I close the file.

Jayson Murdock ’84 BSC Press Correspondent

Hooplex

Hooper Alexander IV, ‘82

Poop

To the Editor:

We write in protest of the unfair article in a recent issue on Fred the Dog. There are other pebbles on the beach, and other dogs on campus. We feel that we deserve recognition. Imagine if we weren’t around. Who would eat Slater scraps on Monday, except freshmen on Tuesday? Who would catch those stray frisbees, breaking numerous canines (excuse the pun) in the act? And you're too smart to think that the caretakers water and fertilize the lawn all by themselves.

So, how ‘bout them Canis Majors?

Katie ’81 Boomer '84 S. Head ’89 Peter ’00

Happy tip

To the Editor:

Left Right Right Do Boo

Say these words as you walk along and you will be a happier person.

Eddie Biedenbach

Holes

To the Editor:

After an exhaustive survey, we have compiled the following list, which we hope will serve to motivate enterprising members of the community to address the serious deficiencies present in our midst:

Things you can’t find at Davidson:

—pierced noses —toads —big earrings —rabbits —cafes —black caviar —protesters (most brands) —Hottentotts —red glitter —cheap artichoke hearts —fountain pens —ankle bracelets —prune filling —Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, Taoists, Daoists, Sikhs, Bahá'ís, Zoroastrians, Tree-Worshippers, etc. —hobos —Macy’s —root of parsley —anything (except church) between 12 am Saturday and 12 pm Sunday. —Last Tango in Paris —male secretaries —papaya juice —Italian ices —activists —pacifists —helicopters —elves —Kumquats

Americans for Actualization

Napalm

To the Editor:

How ‘bout them Vietnamese! Dean Rusk ’31

Message

To the Editor:

Gerald Ford Tom Wolfe Birch Bayh