2—The Davidsonian—April 3, 1981

News at a Glance

Seniors interested in applying for the position of Assistant to the President should meet in College President Samuel Spencer's office immediately following Coffee and Cokes next Wednesday. The position is a one-year internship in Dr. Spencer’s office. Interested students should talk to this year’s assistant, Ginger Evans, if they have any questions.

Elections for student offices will be held on Tuesday. The candidates are as follows:

SOPHOMORE SENATOR (elect 3): Shannon Anderson, Julie Cheek, Minor Hinson, Ken Howarth, Lentz Ivey, Ester Kim, Matthew Merrell, Jason Ratterree, Caroline Scragg, Bryan Sloan, Rob Spaugh, Brent Taylor, George Thompson, and Pat Woodward.

JUNIOR SENATOR (elect 3): Sherman Allen, Al Baldwin, Bob Barnes, Buck Bradberry, Sandy Fossett, Gray Hampton, Tim Johnston, Tracy Thompson, and Margaret West.

SENIOR SENATOR (elect 3): Andy Brown, Barry Mack, Mott McDonald, Warren Overby, and Betsy Thomas.

STUDENT SOLICITORS (seniors): The team of Chip Christian and Bill Purcell.

DEFENSE ADVISORS (seniors): The team of Bobby Ervin and Bryan Duke and the team of Nicholas Viest and Dave Proffit.

REVIEW BOARD (seniors): Eric Crum, Chris Daniels, and Brent Hilleary.

COUNCIL ON CAMPUS AND RELIGIOUS LIFE (elect 2): Howard Browne, William Carter, Eric Crum, David Evans, Buncie Hay, Michael Kelley, and John McDowell.

STUDENT CONDUCT COUNCIL (elect 2): Sherman Allen, Bob Barnes, Lynne Folcher, and Kathleen Huff.

HONOR COUNCIL (3 from each class):

Sophomores: Katie Dagenhart, Willie David, Emily Davis, Alicia Dewey, Harriett Gaston, Susan Kann, Terry Kurtts, Hunter Monroe, Kelly Moore, Scott Otto, Deepak Sawhney, Bobby Silver, Rob Spaugh, Thomas Tankersley, Jeff Tilbury, and Drew Wells.

Juniors: Mebane Atwood, J.C. Faulkner, Eric Fichtner, Bill King, Lucy Marshall, Greg McFayden, Elizabeth McMillan, Ben Oldham, Norwood Smith, Danny Waddill, and Sara.

Seniors: Howard Browne, David Evans, Ellen Gyauch, Gia Partain, Stokes Peebles, Joan Redding, Hill Stockton, Betsy Thomas, and Liza White.

Advisory Council appointments will be made within the next two or three weeks. Advisory Councils make policy recommendations to the President and, on request, to the Board of Trustees. Council members include professors, administrators, and students. Student members are appointed by the SGA. Two student positions are available for Admissions and Financial Aid, three for Alumni Activities, six for Campus and Religious Life, and two for Counseling and Guidance. Two students will be chosen for the Educational Policy committee, three for Finance, Personnel, and Development, and three for Intercollegiate Athletics. There are two positions available on the council for International Education, one for the Library, three on the Media Board, and two for Physical Education. Interested students should sign up in the Dean of Students’ office next week.

Camp Thunderbird
Camping at its Best
Employment at its Best

Excellent summer counseling opportunities for men and women who are dedicated to working with boys and girls ages 7-16, guiding them in their physical, mental, and spiritual development. Only those persons who will dedicate their wholehearted efforts to help each individual child develop his or her potential should apply. One must have the ability to teach in one or more specialized activities. College students, teachers, and coaches should apply. CAMP THUNDERBIRD, located 17 miles south of Charlotte, NC, is an ACA accredited camp member, specializing in water sports (sailing, water skiing, swimming, and canoeing); yet an added emphasis is placed on the land sports (general athletics, tennis, golf, archery, riflery, and backpacking). Horseback riding, white-water canoeing, and tripping are extras in our excellent program. For further information write or call G. William Climer, Jr., Director, Camp Thunderbird, Route 4, Box 166-A, Clover, S.C. 29710 (803-831-2121).

College is digging in to save energy costs
By JIM POLLARD
Staff Writer

The College is working to increase energy efficiency in campus buildings because of rising heat and electricity costs. Major improvements in the energy efficiency of existing buildings are unlikely.Because of prohibitive costs, however, the Commons and the new dormitories are designed to be more energy efficient, according to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze. About 10,000 square feet of floor space in the Commons is underground, taking advantage of the natural insulation of the earth. The north side of the Commons is almost all windows, however. Meetze explained that although the exposure may waste energy, it makes the building attractive and so is an acceptable compromise. He added that the windows are two panes thick to provide insulation and are also tinted. The Commons roof can be adapted to hold solar panels, as can the library roof, Meetze said.

The two new dormitories are heated by energy-efficient heat pumps. Heat pumps pull heat from the outside air to the inside, working on the same principle as refrigerators. The new dormitories will also be equipped with storm windows. None of the present College dormitories have storm windows. The College does hope to increase the energy efficiency of existing campus buildings. Meetze said, "We plan an energy audit for some of the older buildings. We'd like to have a plan for each building if money becomes available." Meetze had considered converting the steam heating systems in the old dorms to a more efficient system, but high costs make such a conversion unfeasible at this time.

The Physical Plant department recently installed a meter in the control room of the library to monitor the College’s energy use minute by minute. They will use the meter to discover when kilowatt demand is highest. The department will then shut down less important electrical devices during the peak time. This will reduce overall costs because the electric bill is based on peak kilowatt demand. Already the College has dropped its peak kilowatt level by 14.6% since 1978, resulting in a saving of thousands of dollars, according to Meetze.

Parking spaces to be moved
By GEORGE BOOTH
Staff Correspondent

Students may park their cars more and more on the fringes of the campus in the future. The College eventually plans to move to “external parking” to decrease motor traffic in the center of campus, according to Security Chief Jackie Hughes. For next year, however, Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze plans to increase the number of student parking spaces, Hughes said. Meetze was not available for comment.

The plans include expanding Main Street from Cunningham Fine Arts Building. There will also probably be small lots on either side of the new plaza-walkway which will stretch from the front of the Commons to the rear of Belk. According to former SGA Vice-President Stuart Dorsett, these lots could be ready when the Commons opens next fall. Dorsett said the SGA is working with Meetze on his plans. The SGA suggested making the lot opposite Cunningham a freshman parking lot. Campus security would need to patrol the lot, since its separation from the campus proper makes it vulnerable to vandalism.

Other possible sites for new parking areas are behind Irwin and Knox dormitories or on the old baseball field behind Jackson Court, according to Hughes. Hughes said he is "90 percent sure" there will no longer be a road between Belk dormitory and the laundry. This would re-route traffic around Patterson Court. By discouraging through traffic, he added, it would enhance campus traffic safety.

Come see and browse!
Izod Knit Shirts
Madras sportcoats
Spring is here and so are our new Birdwell Beach Britches
Khaki pants by Berle and Woolrich
Tennis and Hike shorts by Woolrich and Munsingwear
Grand Slam cotton knit shirts
Sero short sleeve dress shirts
Summer suits—tan poplin by Haspel