After the Stockman squall over the next two months, before it publishes its next budget, the Reagan administration is going
to have to make a series of painful choices. The imbroglio over David Stockman has not created those choices, but
it certainly sharpens them. In that famous magazine article, Mr. Stockman, who runs the Office of Management and Budget, is
quoted as saying that the Reagan economic program hasn’t worked. The fundamental cause of the administration’s discomfort is not that
he said it, but that it’s obviously true. It is disingenuous to argue, as do some of the dwindling band
of supply-siders, that their program only went into effect at the beginning of the fiscal year on Oct. 1. The
whole idea was that the announcement of a coming tax cut last winter would set off a gigantic burst of
business expansion in anticipation of it. Not so incidentally, most of the business tax cuts are in fact retroactive to
last January. But, as you have probably noticed, the present economic situation cannot be described as a boom.

A president can carry Congress with him, as Mr. Reagan did earlier this year, only when he is following a
plan that promises to work. If Mr. Reagan stubbornly sticks with the original supply-side theory, and seals it into the
1983 budget next January, Congress will take it as something other than a reasonable regard for consistency. Congress will take
it as a refusal to accept realities that are all too visible from the Capitol. With that, Mr. Reagan would
lose all initiative in the budget and economic policy. Perhaps it’s happening already. Last week Senator Slade Gorton of Washington,
a Republican member of the Budget Committee, said, “The flag of leadership is passing from the White House to this
committee.”

David Stockman, the brilliant head of the Office of Management and Budget, clearly has ended his usefulness to the Reagan
administration. If the President weren’t such a nice guy he would have accepted Mr. Stockman’s resignation last week and gotten
on with the business of the government. That is not to say there was anything evil or even wrong in
what Mr. Stockman did. The long series of interviews with the Atlantic Monthly showed, if anything, that Mr. Stockman is
a much better economist than anyone realized. But he is also a much less adept politician than most of us
thought.

Supply-side economics means many things to many people, and the so-called supply-side economists often bicker among themselves. It starts with
a fact, not a controversy. The U.S. has been lagging behind several other industrial nations in the growth of productivity.
No one can argue about that; the figures are there for everyone to see. Large numbers of economists and businessmen
go on from that fact to argue that the reason for low productivity gains is that Americans are overtaxed. The
money that goes to Uncle Sam in taxes can’t be invested in new plants and equipment that would make American
business more efficient. Well, there is controversy about that point. Some analysts point out that more than 20% of the
nation’s industrial plant stands idle and contend that this shows there is a limited need for new investment. But there
is something like majority agreement that a step-up in new investment would be good for what ails us. Some of
the idle plant, it’s recognized, is simply inefficient. New technology creates a need for new spending on facilities if the
U.S. is to keep up with its competition abroad.

But how do we encourage that new investment? Representative Jack Kemp of New York in an early supply-side bill several
years ago proposed to encourage investment directly with special tax concessions to business. But special tax breaks for business are
awfully hard to sell unless they’re accompanied by substantial tax breaks for individuals, especially low- and middle-income individuals. What gradually
evolved from such thinking was the so-called Kemp-Roth approach: cutting individual tax rates by 10% a year for three years,
with...the top rate reduced from 50% to 70%. It was to provide something for everybody, so it was easy to
couple with it special tax benefits for business investment. But there were a lot of old fuddy-duddies in Congress and
elsewhere who thought that such sweeping tax cuts would mean huge budget deficits for three or four years, or until
the increases in investment had a chance to generate new taxable income. What to do? Well, it was a job
that required a little sales engineering. There were supply-siders around who thought that the Kemp-Roth tax cuts would stimulate so
much additional work and investment so fast that budget deficits would not be a major worry. A few even argued
that deep cuts in federal spending would not be necessary to make satisfactory progress toward getting the budget under control.
The real extremists, however, never had a handle on policy. Supply-siders within the administration, such as Treasury Under Secretary Norman
Ture and Stockman, from the start were certain that deep budget cuts were absolutely essential. But what everyone was playing
with here were people’s expectations. The reason for planning annual tax cuts for three straight years was to encourage the
public to do some long-term planning. The hope was that citizens, confronted by a government bound and determined to beat
inflation and assured that they could keep more of their income, would indeed work harder and invest more. The numbers
that went with this were never any more solid than the planners’ hopes. With hindsight, it’s easy to wish that
the administration had been more candid, less optimistic. Many economists who fully supported the Reagan program from the start were
deeply skeptical of the forecasts that accompanied it. It’s easy to suspect that the optimistic forecasts were formulated in part
to sell the program to Congress. It would be hard for a lawmaker to vote against a tax cut if
he believed that the cut would not mean bigger budget deficits and more inflation just ahead. Whether or not salesmanship
was the aim, the administration’s chickens have come home to roost. It is not enough to argue, as Stockman apparently
did in the Atlantic reviews, that Congress Christmas-treed the administration tax bill. Of course it did. But the administration tax
cuts were somewhat reduced and somewhat delayed, too. It may be that the size of the eventual tax cut wasn’t
much different from what the administration asked. Excessively optimistic forecasts are hardly new in government, but the Reagan administration had
seemed to promise us something better. The administration in the past week has made a good start toward clearing the
air, toward providing the sort of candor that would have been better from the first. What the country needs now
is more of the same. An essential spokesman for such a policy is the head of the Office of Management
and Budget; David Stockman, who evidently realized that the official forecasts were wrong months ago but kept quiet in public,
has disqualified himself for the job. There is nothing fundamentally wrong with the Reagan policy. If the administration will level
with the country, there will indeed be life after David Stockman.

To recapture the initiative, Reagan will have to drop the more mystical, and incredible, aspects of the original program. He
will have to base his budget on economic forecasts that people in Congress, and around the country, can accept as
reasonable. He will have to lower the revenue forecasts, and raise the deficit forecasts, to levels consistent with present experience.
He will have to resolve the basic and damaging inconsistency between his goals for higher growth and for lower inflation
next year. He will have to present a coherent strategy for dealing with a recession of unexpected severity. If Reagan
can’t bring himself to construct a budget that the rest of the country considers realistic, actual authority over the budget
will rapidly migrate in the general direction that Gorton suggests. In that case, it wouldn’t make much difference who’s director
of the Office of Management and Budget.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981
