Friday, 25 September 1981

Editor -
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036

Sexist subscription ad

To the Editor:
About that advertisement depicting the male reader of the Davidsonian on page seven of this year’s first issue. Was it designed to expand or limit circulation? If the ad conveys the appeal which the newspaper staff wishes to make to Davidson students and graduates, it is designed for a minuscule group of men and for an even more restricted group of women — those who peer appreciatively over men’s shoulders at what is originally interesting only to men. It seems strangely self-defeating for a newspaper deliberately to exclude large segments of the public from its readership even as a bad joke.

Perhaps the women on campus who do read for themselves need to take the ad’s message seriously. What’s in the Davidsonian for us?

Prof. Patricia Edmondson

Fall Prospects

To the Editor:
In response to J-boy’s survey of Fall prospects, i.e. freshmen coeds:

Anyone can watch sports, several think they can coach; but only a few play the game well.

What’s the matter, Davidson gentlemen... need an introduction?

Lindsay L. Biddle ’83

Stop the equinox

To the Editor:
Each year at this time, while most people are ignorantly going about their business, a horrible event takes place. I refer, of course, to the autumnal equinox. For years, people have allowed this dreadful occurrence, which marks the relative movement of the sun into the southern celestial hemisphere, to go unnoticed.

We of the Coalition Against the Autumnal Equinox believe that it is time something was done.

Because of this equinox, we are plunged into the dreaded winter doldrums, while those in the southern hemisphere are able to enjoy the long days and warm weather which should be ours. It seems likely that our jolly leader and sometime president Mr. Reagan is a supporter of this underhanded plot which, by decreasing both the chance to use solar power and the temperature, places the consumer at the mercy of his allies, the large oil companies.

This year, we officially protested the autumnal equinox, but it occurred nonetheless. However, our organization is gaining strength, and, with your help, we can stop the equinox. Next spring, the vernal equinox will mark our regaining of the sun, and after that, we will never let the southern hemispherians have it back again. What can you do to help this worthy cause? Boycott products from the southern hemisphere, write your Congressman, and join your local CAAE chapter. Together, we can put an end to this outrage. Let’s stop the equinox NOW!

Charlie Lovett ’84
Chairman
Coalition Against the Autumnal Equinox

DAVIDSONIAN, page 3

What kind of woman reads the Davidsonian?
(A revised version of the offending ad)

What kind of man reads the Davidsonian?
(The ad that piqued Professor Edmondson)