January 16, 1980—The Davidsonian—11

GOD

PRINCETON, NJ (CPS)—God has applied to Princeton.

Hoping to be accepted to the Class of 1985, God wrote a “personal statement” sent in December to the Princeton
Admissions Office that He would like to “experience first-hand what college life is presently like.” He added that it did
not seem right that He listen in on courses when He has not been admitted.

The application was brought to the attention of James Wickenden, director of admissions, who reported to the Princeton Weekly Bulletin
that the candidate entered his name only as “God.” In describing Himself, God checked both male and female for gender
and checked all possible ethnic origins, in addition to writing “You name it!” next to the ethnic origin response marked
“other.”

Wickenden said he was not surprised at the applicant’s test scores, which included perfect 800s on both the math and
verbal portions of the SAT. However, He hadn’t fared quite as well on the College Entrance Examination Board’s achievement tests.
An error on the relativity question on the physics achievement test dropped the score to only 760. On the application,
though, God resolutely maintained “Einstein is wrong,” perhaps proving that to err is divine.

In biology, He scored 770 because His answers on the evolution question were also marked as incorrect.

In the essay portion of the application, God wrote His academic and intellectual interests included “discreetly helping people and listening
to prayers.”

“I take advantage of dreams and apparent accidents or mistakes (the realization of the structure of benzene and the discovery
of penicillin are good examples of each) and get to be of service to mankind,” He elaborated.

Also included in His “non-academic activities” were “arranging the weather,” which takes up 168 hours each week, as does “listening
to prayers.” Additionally, God reported spending 14 hours per week “turning day into night” and another 14 “turning night into
day.”

Although a federal privacy statute dictates that Wickenden cannot release any information contained in admissions applications, he told the Weekly
Bulletin he thought it appropriate in this case to “be responsive to a higher law.” He acknowledged that this application
was “the first of its kind” that he had seen.

“A couple of fictitious applications have been submitted over the years,” he said, “but those were of a different nature
because they involved human applicants.”

The admissions office has no idea where the application came from, but said that the question received much speculation from
students. The director has not received any applications involving fictitious persons since that time, and does not expect that this
incident will trigger any other practical jokes.

“Everyone regarded it for what it was: a clever ruse,” he said. “I hope it made people laugh.”

In releasing the information about the candidate, Wickenden noted that a separate application had been included in the envelope. Even
God, it seems, cannot escape certain human conditions. He applied for financial aid.

To our readers:

Flu is no respecter of deadlines. Many of you probably found this out for yourselves this week. So did we.
Flu strikes writers, print shop workers—even editors.

This is the reason for the white space you see on this page.

We are not proud of it.

We will do everything we can to make sure it does not happen again.

And to those dear souls who worked frantically to put it together—a heartfelt thanks.

—The editors

DOGS

The appaloosa hound stalks squirrels but won’t admit—pretends, with a casual air, that he is merely strolling when they get
away.

The lop-eared one is best. He comes soft-eyed to beg cheese crackers, then runs away, always on some personal quest.

They know all the good places—the dark laurels for hiding in, the creek, full of smells and sometimes cats, the
chrysanthemum-lined bricks, warm for evening seats. They pass in twos and threes by the library, indifferent.
