ve ceeeomn oes ’ 4
oo |e Sy
+ i alee

True confes-
sions: all

about Stock-
man, page 8

Gearing up for
Charlotte
FUNB tourney.
See basketball
on page 16.

DAVIDSONIAN

Volume LXXI, Number 10

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Friday 11 December 1981

Union Board Elections

Students compete for each Union Board office

Elections for Union Board president, Union Board vice president for co-curricular activities, and Union Board vice president for social activities will be held on Tuesday. There are two candidates vying for each post.

Juniors Lindsay Biddle and Mick Goode are competing for the presidency. The Union Board president’s duties entail overseeing all Union committees, representing the Union on campus issues, serving in several school committees and attending national seminars and conferences as Davidson’s Union Board’s spokesperson.

Lindsay is the incumbent vice president for co-curricular activities, and has been actively involved with the Union since her freshman year, when she acted as unofficial publicity agent.

Mike is chairman of the Games committee, and has been a member of the Pop Films committee, in addition to being a Union work-study student.

Both Lindsay and Mike feel that their past experience qualifies them for the job, and they expressed similar goals. Lindsay is especially concerned with the Union’s identity. “[It] shouldn’t be defined just as the Grey Union building, but should be seen as a tool for students to utilize and a place where various issues can be publicized.” She stressed that students are not aware that $40 of their tuition is for Union use, nor that almost all extra-curricular activities, except those sponsored by the Patterson Court Council, are under Union auspices.

In addition to attracting more student participation, Lindsay would like to see a better working relationship between the Union and the Patterson Court Council, especially involving schedule conflicts. She would also like the Union to work with houses on the Court to promote greater observance of noise regulations and healthier drinking attitudes on campus.

Lindsay would like the Union to reestablish a Literary committee, to develop an awareness group for publicity, and to foster closer relationships with such organizations as the Women’s Center.

Mike is concerned with the lack of student awareness of the Union. He said it needs to become more visible and personal.

Besides seeking more student participation, he would like to draw faculty members and people of the community into its activities.

Mike said, “it’s also important to keep the old members enthusiastic about their jobs. Too often they become unnecessarily frustrated, when in fact, they can do just about anything; for we have the resources and the ability to do what we want. There are a lot of good ideas circulating now that really should be followed through.”

Running for the position of vice president for co-curricular activities are juniors Sherman Allen and Elizabeth McMillan. Co-curricular vice-president in addition to being a member of the Union Board Executive Council and being responsible for the Artist’s Series, oversees the Speakers, Cultural Events, Campus Forum, Gallery, International, and Fine Films Committees.

Sherman has been active on the Speakers Committee for three years, chairing it for the past two. Because of his work with the Speakers Committee, and because he is an active participant in a number of Union activities, he feels he has the experience necessary for the job.

Although he stressed that the Union operates as an undivided organization, he would like to see the co-curricular activities’ side emphasized a little more, for he feels that too often it is overlooked or ignored in fa-

[jump to page 3]