| 10—The Davidsonian—January 16, 1981

IMAC

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

IMAC is ill this week like most of the campus. But we have had a lot of action that has
thus far gone unreported. The league's two best teams have gone through the first part of the season with records
unscathed. Fido, headed by Lob Bapple and Stork, has done away with a bunch of mediocre opponents. Cool Breeze with
Gifford and James McLain had a close call with We're Pathetic, being taken to overtime by this group with Mike,
Hill, and Nick doing things.

The Unknowns and the Sorensen Sequoias are way worse than anyone thought; Joby’s old, Minor’s fat, Sorensen's slow, and Dillard
likes Dean Smith. Hence, both teams are awful. Except for True Grits there are no other good teams. The PIKA
brigade headed by Krieg, Whitesides and a host of other PIKA’s and SAE’s have crushed every non-descript opponent they've faced.
The Old Men are bad and still play like children despite losing Biedenbach, Bzdelik, and Kochan to the recent scourge
of VD. Vince and Whitmire are good for the Delts. Other neat people include John Siman, Howard Cosell, Jeff Frank,
Giscard D’Estaing, and Ho Chi Minh.

Here’s our Top Ten:
1. Cool Breeze
2. Fido
3. We're Pathetic
4. True Grits
5. Unknowns
6. Sorensen’s Sequoias
7. Phi Delts
8. Bear
9. Mrs. Zurbruegg (Bertha)
10. Mrs. Lapple (Regina)

Party Saturday afternoon at Harding House. All non-SPE’s invited.

BB&DB would like to leave you with a few study problems for this week. Send your answers in to Will.

1) What exactly is this? Kelvin, Tom, Al, Hall, Paul, Diggs, Mark, Blab, Buck, Frank, John, John, Dave, John, Steve,
Yancey, Chip, Rusty, Pete, Rob, Chris, Marshall, Stuart, Jim, Reed, Mark, Andy, Dave, Alec, J.C., Craig, Rick, Ed, Phil, Philip,
Mike, Chip, Jeff, Knox, Bill, Warren, Bart, Tim, Bob, Gary, Greg, John, Tom, Joel, Rob, Ken.
2) What is the chief’s front for undercover work?
3) Name two methods of secret agent communication other than plain talking in Get Smart?
4) What is the most lopsided score in college football history?
5) Who distributes dope at Davidson? (Rush this answer in)
6) Use three excretive expletives in a normal grammatical sentence. Say what? Normal Grammatical
7) What in particular do these people have in common? General Haig, Elizabeth Kiss, Joby, Bani Sadr, all the dead
Kennedys, Richie D., Polacks, Dennis Kucinich, Roman Gabriel, Charlie Slagle, Burton Vance, Charlie Law, John Madden
8) Why?
9) Who was the Best Man at Alec Evans’ wedding?
10) Is the IMAC article going downhill?

Later.

OHAIAMR OY

Subscriptions to The Davidsonian $8 a year
Box 218 | Davidson, NC 28036

(Continued from page 1)

Willingham said that he would like alumni participation to reflect more accurately “the kind of school we've got and the
kind of alumni we've got.” In a table of combined alumni contributions to athletic clubs and endowment programs at colleges
and universities in the United States, compiled for the 1978-1979 fiscal year by the Council for Financial Aid to Education,
Davidson was listed at 28.5 percent participation. Williams reached 61.1 percent, Amherst was listed at 54.0 percent, and Kenyon attained
49.5 percent. Davidson was 86th in alumni participation in a list ranking private colleges and universities. Willingham would like to
extend the student phonathon another week this year to help reach the 20 percent increase goal. He said that the
phonathon “helped more in terms of participation than in total dollars,” but stressed the importance of increased participation, saying, “I
think that what we're into is an educational building process.” Willingham also plans to personalize requests.for contributions. “The more personal
the approach, the greater the likelihood of response,” he said. He plans to have class chairmen form committees to telephone
alumni in their classes. The Living Endowment may begin approaching alumni on the basis of geographical distribution, as well as
through their classes, according to Willingham.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sophomore John College must raise $430,000 in the next Saturday's 61.63 game. December 19, 1980

by Anne Goodwin

Company, a choice, but he said he was leaning towards teaching religion or ethics on the college level. He has
also applied for the Luce and Fulbright scholarships this year. The English system of weekly discussion meetings with a tutor
attracted him more than the “soak it up, feed it back” method he finds in some Davidson classes.

Company wanted to study moral and social and political philosophy at Oxford. He planned to examine the nature of political
authority, the value—"the myth of the secular state” in his words—and the concept of the social state.

Alumni contributions comprise about half of the Living Endowment. The rest of the Endowment comes from contributions from students’ parents,
friends of the college, corporations, and foundations. Willingham added, “I am deeply grateful to all of the leaders, students and
alumni, and all of the individuals who contributed to the Living Endowment.”

(Continued from page 1)

The revised proposals still include a requirement that every student take one course in non-Western studies. They also still specify
that only “basic courses”—courses which provide a broad, systematic introduction to the particular discipline—may satisfy area requirements. The faculty will
discuss the EPC proposals further at a special meeting to be called by the executive committee. If the faculty approves
the revised proposals, the new requirements will go into effect with the freshman class entering September 1982.

Plott (Continued from page 1) essentially a performing organization and turned it into a full department. We now have four
full-time faculty members and a much larger number of musical groups on campus. That was quite a job.”
