Friday, 18 September 1981
DAVIDSONIAN
page 3

Earl Wooten ’84

Most students are welcoming changes in housing and in the new traffic pattern around Patterson Court this fall, but the changes in parking are meeting with skepticism. Outdoors, the grounds department toiled during the summer to add new brick walkways and make changes in parking and traffic patterns, while inside, the housing department made several improvements.

Approximately 50 parking spaces were lost during the construction and re-landscaping on the campus, but with new parking spaces soon to open, there will be “150 parking spaces more than last year,” Grounds Supervisor Paul Brawley said.

Opposite Fannie and Mable house is new student parking. A gravel lane leads from the newly paved road around the court to a parking lot. The lot is finished except for security lighting. Duke Power is installing those lights now, and the new parking lot should be open within a week. Parking spaces are now in front of the KA house and behind Richardson dorm where previously, there had been none. The parking spaces behind Richardson are for faculty and staff only.

A new parking lot in the area behind the post office near the new computer center (formerly doctors’ office) will accommodate 40 cars. A disconcerting note, however, is the location of the new parking spaces. College Laundry Manager Frances Beaver is concerned that the laundry staff might have to find parking spaces far from the laundry building. In the past, most of the laundry staff parked between the security department building and the laundry building. Now, brick walkways replace those 15 to 20 parking spaces. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze has designated certain parking lots beside Belk for the laundry staff, but they “will not take care of our needs,” Mrs. Beaver said. Mrs. Beaver suggested that Mr. Meetze could reserve the eight spaces near the tennis courts for the laundry staff. “It would relieve our problem,” she said.

It is not likely that any new parking spaces will be made available to students, faculty, or staff near the focal points of the college such as the dormitories and classrooms. In fact, Mr. Brawley intends to have as much parking space as possible away from the perimeter parking,” he said.

The housing department made changes in some dormitory lounges to provide a better atmosphere for students. A lounge was created in Duke on the first floor. Previously, the dorm had no lounge space or passageway between the left and right sides of the dorm. The new lobby in Duke provides both a lounge area and accessible exits in case of a fire. The housing department decorated the lobby of Richardson Dorm in quiet earth tones provided by the new carpet, wallpaper, and furniture. According to Housing Director Bill Bolding, revenue from the sale of old lumber, books, and “anything left in storage from two years back,” brought $250.00 which paid for the wallpapering in Richardson lounge. Mr. Bolding also closed the Vincent House and some of the furniture from it went into Richardson. Income from computer games, such as Galaxians, also helped purchase material for the renovation. Mr. Bolding said the housing department plans to redo and improve every dorm. Next year Cannon will be redecorated.

Mr. Brawley said the grounds crew has laid over 100,000 bricks, but much of the work is still incomplete. New brick walkways criss-cross the plaza area between Belk dorm and the Commons. Mr. Brawley said his crew planted grass in that area early to improve the appearance of the campus by the opening of school. Now they are waiting for the soil to dry so they can finish the brickwork and landscaping. Mr. Brawley also plans extensive landscaping around Patterson Court. The parking...Spaces encircling the Court are interrupted by islands, with grass and young trees to be planted soon. The grounds crew repaved and widened, in many places, the road which circles the campus. Rerouted traffic follows around Patterson Court behind the gymnasium, and behind Richardson Stadium. Behind the football field, the narrow one-way road is now dual-lane and wider. According to Mr. Brawley, the road is now 20 feet wide, which is “as wide or wider than most secondary roads in North Carolina.” “The only danger is the curve,” he admitted. The curve is 22 feet wide but hazardous because of poor visibility of approaching traffic in either direction. Mr. Brawley said, “two cars can meet in that corner, but not a car and a truck.”

“We are working toward pe-”

Susan: Freshman orientation

Freshmen Susan Campbell (left), Judy Redd, and Meg Surratt (right) figure out the clues at the people-hunt last week. Do freshmen still enjoy the orientation games? Says, “We had a lot of fun. It was great.”

Knox and Irwin dorms open doors to 108 students

By Jeffrey Mann ‘84

Knox and Irwin dormitories opened 2 September to returning upperclassmen. The new two-story dorms each house 54 students in 27 double rooms. Director of Housing Bill Bolding said the new dorms will “pretty much take care of the housing shortage for men, but we could still use a few more rooms for women.” He does not know of any plans to build more dorms. Knox houses only men and Irwin is coed with women on the second floor. Student reaction to the new dorms is generally quite favorable. The main complaints concern the distance to the rest of campus, the size of the rooms, and the lack of sinks. “Everything’s nice, except the sinks are down the hall,” said Sophomore Mark Goodwin, an Irwin resident. It’s nearly a ten-minute walk to Chambers, but most students seem to be adjusting. “Even though we’re almost in the next county, it’s not too bad,” said junior Knox resident Leif Johnston. Several students said it is “almost like being off campus.”

Knox and Irwin are on Patterson Court opposite the SAE and Phi Delt houses, respectively. They are two-story buildings with 116 rooms built in a long hallway style similar to other dorms on campus. Unlike all other Davidson dorms, there are no sinks in individual rooms. Rather, the bathroom/sink facilities are each shared by twelve students. There is a lounge on every floor, with the second-floor lounges designated for studying. The new rooms feature a modular furniture system which allows many different room arrangements, including several types of lofts. Students build lofts by stacking their beds on any two of the other furniture pieces: the closet, bureau-and-shelf, or desk-and-shelf. The housing office chose this type of furniture for its “durability and heavy strength,” according to housing office secretary Gracia Slater. “We wanted to provide more flexibility without ruining the walls with students nailing into them.” The furniture cost about $1000 per student. Comptroller Robert Davidson said the total cost for the buildings was $1.2 million, or about $11,000 per bed. UNC — Charlotte recently completed a housing project costing just over $9000 per bed according to UNC — C Associate Director of Residential Life Chuck Colby. This project consists of two-bedroom apartments with a living area and bathroom shared by four students. Mr. Bolding pointed out that it is “very hard to compare our dorms with apartments,” and that private and state schools do their funding very differently. Mr. Bolding said that the Davidson dorms should prove more durable. “They'll (UNC — C) have to start replacing furniture almost immediately.” The housing office plans several improvements. Ladders should arrive soon for lofts and the Physical Plant will build small lockers in the bathrooms for personal items.