THE DEVOIDSONIAN

In Vichyssoise No Fishies Are

Vol. 666, No. 69

Void Where Prohibited

Post-Trustee Endowment crashes 99.99 percent

By BILL GIDUZ
Propagandist

Davidson’s Endowment has fallen from approximately $23 million to $127.13. College President Samuel Spencer said the college lost $22.5 million on Confederate war bonds purchased in April by College Archivist Chalmers Davidson. Another $49,000 is missing in English Professor Gill Holland’s office.

Spencer said he had given Davidson control of the money because Davidson “told me he knew about a little bitty cheap stock that was going to get bigger quick. It sounded like a good deal to me.” Davidson defended the bond purchase, saying, “it’s still a good cause.” The paper bonds are worth about $27.13 as collector’s items. Spencer said, “I hate to say this, but Chalmers did a dumb thing.”

Spencer said he gave English Professor Gil Holland $49,900 cash in late April “to keep it in his office where inflation wouldn’t get it.” Holland said he “just can’t seem to find it anywhere. Let me clean a place off for you to sit over there so I can look for it.” Holland is still looking. Spencer said he gave them to Holland because “nobody even goes up on the third floor next to a couple of sociology professors.”

A task force of library workers is being organized to search Holland’s office. Task force leader Weezie Mann said the group will search for the money in German Professor Julius Winkler’s office as well. “We can’t let them be messy just because they drink together every afternoon at the Anchor Tavern,” she explained.

Spencer denied the loss would prevent construction of the proposed athletic complex. Spencer added, “if things are real bad, we've always got the collection plate at (Davidson College Presbyterian) Church.”

Pres. Spencer censors non-Ivy League films

By FRED BROADWELL
Staff Person

Marvin Brandy will not be coming to Davidson this spring. A recently exhumed College policy which prohibits the showing of films by directors of non-Ivy League education cut short Pop Films Chairman Jeff Herrin’s attempts to bring Brandy’s Last Two-Step in Toulouse to the campus.

President Samuel Spencer introduced this policy in 1957 when he prohibited the showing of Ball State University graduate Francis Fiori Campanella’s American Scribbles. The issue arose once again in 1970, when the administration blocked the showing of Woody Goody’s Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Adolescence But Were Afraid to Ask. Goody had majored in Theatre at Yale, but was suspended for a semester on an honor violation in 1962.

The director of Last Two-Step in Toulouse is Manfred Wisnowski, who got his doctorate in Theatre from Colgate University in 1953. Spencer, defending the decision, said that Wisnowski’s background carried “certain associations that are not in keeping with my College.” “I don’t mean to be unfair,” Spencer added, “but the college has a commitment to quality extracurricular activities, which requires discriminating judgment. We want only the best.”

English Professor Tony Abbott thinks these decisions should be made on the basis of the quality of the film itself. “Last Two-Step is a really great film,” Abbott said. “Besides, Colgate is almost Ivy League.”

Herrin said he was “disappointed but not bitter” about the decision. Although sympathetic with the College position per se, he said, “there should be room for judging directors for their worth in and of themselves.” Herrin added that one of the most influential films he had ever seen, The Undergraduate, had been directed by a Jersey City State graduate.

Union Director Shaw Smith, who was also disappointed with the decision, said that the policy “does not allow for the flexibility needed to bring a diverse range of quality films to the campus.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

"Not keep people from seeing films of non-Ivy League directors," Smith said. He often saw students in line at Charlotte movie theatres to see films by directors from large state universities. The question of whether or not to admit the films of non-Ivy League directors is not (continued on page 6).

Staff Monkey

When College President Samuel Spencer came to Davidson in 1968, the faculty was all white and middle-aged. Spencer said at the time that he wanted to change all that. Today, largely because of Spencer’s leadership, younger professors in their 20s and 30s make up about 40% of the faculty. But no minor professors have been hired as yet. Only two have even applied within the last year.

The Trustees recently approved a new tactic in the search for minor professors when they passed Spencer’s proposal to seek and hire minors, regardless of their ethnic background. Previously, only white minors from Mecklenburg County had been considered. Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said this may result in several departments gaining white minors.

In this era of shrinking endowments, niggardly alumni, and drafty dormitories, small colleges will have to depend more and more on their most precious resource: the Administration. With these words, College President Samuel Spencer last week unveiled projected plans for a possible future long-term revitalization program which he called "The Ultimate Weapon." The Stealth Administration met Monday to discuss the plan: a Stealth Administration.

By JANI LITCHINSKI
Staff Lithuanian

Davidson’s College Bowl program experienced yet another contortion yesterday when Head Coach Hansford Epes unexpectedly resigned. Epes, who had held his position for almost a year, announced his resignation during the 10 o’clock hour before a somber crowd in the Snack Bar. Epes declined to comment on the reason for his resignation. It appears, however, that the courtly facade of the Davidson College Bowl program has been concealing a not-so-rosy state of affairs. Indeed, the program could be called a festering mess. Sources say Epes’ resignation followed accusations of mishandling players, situations, and assistant coaches. Two disgruntled team members, Bob "Twit" Evans and Edward "Ed" Trumbull, approached College President Samuel Spencer last Wednesday to air their grievances. "They were obviously at the point of nausea," Staph Infection

"Davidson faces, in the next 20 years, the moral and (continued on page 6)," Spencer told the Devoidsonian yesterday. "Bob told me he’d had it up to here, and if something wasn’t done about it he was going back to (Georgia) Tech to be an engineer. So, I asked Hans (Epes) to resign." "However, the players’ complaints had nothing to do with the resignation," Spencer added.

But what had Evans, the 5 foot 5 inch, 10 inch cerebral diameter (CD) starter, in such a tizzy? "I’m a star, the star of the team," Evans said. "I mean, my IQ’s 330 and I’m Social Chairman of MENSA. I'm hot stuff. I wanna go professional. Epes knew this, and he kept getting in my way. He bad-mouthed me all over the Union—tried to ruin my chances. I’m great, I make this team, but he wouldn’t let me do my stuff." Evans was not the only disgruntled College Bowl player. Julie "Nuke ‘Em" Gibert, at 12 CD the team’s spitfire forward, feels that Epes (continued on page 6).

Spencer unveils ‘The Ultimate Weapon’

By DYLAN TRENT FAIRCLOTH

"Financial equivalent of war," Spencer told an astonished audience of College students and friends, who thought they were coming to a Chamber music concert. "Desperate times require desperate measures. This is a time for desperate men. We must not be sucked up by circumstances, lured by outside forces to take a stand. He who takes a stand gets pot shots taken at him." Invisibility, Spencer announced, is the key. The Administration should operate as if it were not there. "Imagine an invisible dart board, and you will immediately see the effectiveness of this plan," Spencer (continued on page 3).

College Bowl coach resigns under fire