2—The Davidsonian

Staff members of WDUD, the College’s struggling carrier current station, think they have discovered a solution to WDUD’s problems: the new QP-3 interfacing transmitter system (shown above). The $2.3-million, 7.5 oz. system is “mobile, compact, and loud,” Station Manager John Odell explained. “It will help us get out where the people are,” Odell said, adding, “Also, it should help us achieve less than 15 hours of operation failure per week next year.” WDUD has had a “rough” year, Odell said. Problems included little or no transmission, little or no personnel, little or non-functional equipment, little or no funds, and terrorist sabotage.

WDUD gets QP-3

“Some girls stormed in and took over for an hour or two but it wasn’t all that bad. At least they let us have the station back.” Odell said the staff collected the $2.3 million needed to purchase the system from their parents. “We also did some fundraising projects, like selling blood.”

The new system operates somewhat like the passive solar greenhouse the Y Student Service Corps built onto the Depot, Odell explained. Sound particles build up in the copper audio collector (“sort of like a bird cage”—see picture) and fall by gravity into the “little black box” (see picture). When the density of the particles reaches a certain number (called the “frequency”), a “whole bunch of little tiny resistors and capacitors and stuff” pick up the particles and carry them down the cord to the transmitter. The transmitter’s “coffee cup” construction increases the volume to generally audible levels. “I don’t really know how it works,” Odell added, “but it does.”

College President Samuel Spencer did not know about the WDUD purchase but thought it was a good idea. “I’m sure they got the best (system),” Spencer noted. Spencer praised WDUD for their efforts to enhance Davidson’s public image among those who had never heard of the College, “particularly those on campus.”

News at a Glance

College seeks miner profs

When College President Samuel Spencer came to Davidson in 1968, the faculty was all white and had healthy lungs. Spencer said at the time he wanted to change all that. Today, largely because of Spencer’s leadership, about 40% of the faculty have lung diseases due to smoking. But no miner professors have yet been hired. The Trustees recently approved a new tactic in the search for miner professors when they passed Spencer’s proposal to seek and hire miners, regardless of their lung color. “We are not restricting ourselves to only those miners with black lungs,” Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said.

Harrison forfeits Vereen Bell award

Eddie Harrison, winner of this year’s Vereen Bell Writing Award, was stripped of his prize today after he admitted that his entry, “The Peat Moss Covered Pickled Pile of Parsnips,” was fiction. Investigators found that Harrison's touching story of an ex-heroin addict's eight-year struggle to establish an herb farm in a remote corner of Appalachia was a complete fabrication. Harrison did not have much to say for himself. “Well, it’s one of those things, you know? I don’t think I should say any more without my lawyer.” Charged under Section 17-qs of the Code of Responsibility, “Creativity and Blasphemy,” Harrison faces trial by the Honor Council next week. Dean of Students Will Terry has recommended that Harrison have his right hand chopped off, “so that he may never again disgrace his school and himself with his writing.” “Harrison has had a sneaky look in his eyes in all hisFour years here,’’ Terry commented. “He gives me the creeps.” Tom Wolfe, who judged the contest, told the press as he sipped his creme de menthe in his Gothic-style Park Avenue apartment that he did not think Harrison’s case was “a big deal.” “Fiction is a dirty word in today’s dull drab colonialistic bourgeois society,” Wolfe said, “but to men of taste, it is manna, nectar, ambrosia, the veritable Right Stuff.” Asked why he judged Harrison’s entry number one in the contest, Wolfe noted, “I liked the title.”

The first person to question the integrity of Harrison’s work was Mrs. Ida Gruneburger, a first-grade teacher at Toucheemeehee Elementary School in Yucca, North Carolina. Harrison had listed Toucheemeehee as his alma mater in the autobiographical sketch attached to his entry. “I ain’t never heard of Eddie Harrison, and I’ve been teaching here for 56 years,” Mrs. Gruneburger said. “He may live over in the next holler, but he sure don’t live here. Never did.” Administrators then checked the remainder of Harrison’s autobiography and found all of it spurious. He does not play the tuba, was not “Mr. Wonderful” at his 11th-grade Valentine’s Day dance, and is not a member of the American Reptile Lovers Association. After five days of intense questioning, Harrison admitted his crime.

Guardian Angels risk their lives

Rampant campus vandalism recently prompted Housing Director Block Building to form an anti-vandalism patrol called the Guardian Angels. The grey-clad, clean-cut students began to stalk dorm hallways this week. Building said he decided to form the group when he found his office demolished by a van. “It was just too much, just too too too much,” Building sputtered. “I realized that something had to be done.” So he put up posters asking Guardian Angel applicants to come to his office before 3 a.m. April 31. No one came. Building then decided to use Resident Advisors for the Guardian Angels, instead. “I was really happy I found something for them to do,” he commented. After a week of training by ex-Confederate General Chalmers Davidson, the Angels were on the job.

“The first week was pretty uneventful,” Angel Captain Sean Jaw said. “We caught some girls in Cannon building a fire in the bathroom to heat water, and a gorilla with an M-16 who was drooling all over first Little.” Most of the Angels’ work consisted in organizing their publicity campaign, “Let’s make Davidson Safe for Furniture.” Late last Wednesday the Angels apprehended a little sleepwalker trudging down the hall in basement Sentelle chanting “Money money money money.” “It was like some kind of litany. Really weird,” Jaw said. “None of us had ever seen the guy before.” The man turned out to be College President Sam “I Used to Rule” Spencer. Spencer was taken home in the Presidential scooter. When asked about the incident Spencer suggested people go talk to Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze, “who knows more about halls than I do.”

Although most students will leave campus in a week or two for summer vacation, the Angels will stay on. “They’re going to screw all the chairs in Belk to the floor,” Building explained, “and then they'll probably guard E.H. Little library Saturday nights.” For their work the Angels receive a free pass to the lake campus and leftover doughnuts from B&B every Saturday.

Tenuous

Two Davidson professors, Lou “Polok” Ortmayer and John “Psycho” Brockway, now have tenuous status at the College. The Trustees granted Ortmayer and Brockway tenure last week.