Cone Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College. "Aside, however, the Voting Rights Act passed overwhelmingly by Congress in 1965, the Voting
Rights Act marked what most political analysts feel was the end of a fifty-five year struggle for civil rights and
the beginning of a new and promising era of black politics in America. This new era of black politics has
not delivered on the dreams that were so fervently felt in 1965. Economically, blacks still find themselves on the fringes
of American society, with a median income only 60 percent of the median income of whites and making up a
disproportionate one-third of all people in America classified below the poverty level. Socially, blacks find themselves in a state of
floating, voluntary segregation. Politically, blacks still face a lily-white U.S. Senate, a corps of all-white lieutenant-governors, and a collection of
governors devoid of any black faces. These political facts notwithstanding, progress has been made. Before 1965, less than 100 blacks
held public office. Today, nearly 5000 hold office. The National Conference of Black Mayors has been organized, and as pointed
out by this weekend’s scheduled events on Capitol Hill, the Congressional Black Caucus is strong both in numbers and in
quality of public service. The empirical evidence leaves no doubt in anyone’s mind — the single most significant factor in
bringing about these changes has been the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

Placing empirical evidence has pointed out (1975); the black experience in U.S. history has led blacks to feel themselves to
be subjects of rather than participants in the government. One must note that the Voting Rights Act is much more
important to blacks than any of these staggering statistics might suggest. As Milton Morris pointed out, the black political experience
is most blatantly ironic in their association with the U.S. political system and with the American Creed. Ironies such as
these have conspired to give blacks this notion of being “subject to” rather than “participants in” the government. The Voting
Rights Act is crucial to blacks in that it represents an oasis in the vast desert of ironies and blatant
injustice that has marked the history of blacks in this country. It is the single most significant factor in altering
black attitudes concerning their relationship to the U.S. government. The Voting Rights Act is crucial to America in that it
was the culmination of fifty-five years of protracted struggle for civil rights. The Voting Rights Act brought success to the
civil rights movement in its third stage: nonviolent protest, rather than its yet to come fourth stage: political violence. Scholars
have noted an amazing similarity in the civil rights movements in South Africa and in the United States. Milton D.
Morris in his 1975 work The Politics of Black America notes that both movements began with efforts at cooperating with
the existing government structures. In the U.S., this was...Marked by two stages: lobbying and litigation. Both these stages were carried
out primarily by the NAACP. Stage three developed in South Africa and in the U.S. in 1949 and 1957, respectively.
This was the stage of direct nonviolent protest. For South Africa, this ended in 1961 and was replaced by political
violence. Nelson Mandela, a civil rights leader of South Africa, summarized the situation thus: “When some of us discussed [our
previous tactics] in May and June of 1961, it could not be denied that our policy to achieve a non-racial
state had achieved nothing.”

The U.S. has avoided a widespread policy of political violence as a means of attaining a recognition of inherent rights.
The similarities with the South African movement and the sporadic outbursts during the late 1960s leave no doubt that this
would have been the next stage in the struggle for human dignity. There is, however, a difference between the U.S.
and South Africa to which we can attribute the failure of the black movement in America to follow the pattern
of South Africa and resort to violence. America responded positively to the civil rights nonviolent movement; South Africa did not.
Thus, as the most important and influential response to this nonviolent movement, the Voting Rights Act is of great importance
both to blacks and to America in general.

Renewal of a strong Voting Rights Act is for blacks a reminder that America does respond to nonviolent protest. At
a pivotal time in the history of black/white relations in this country, the U.S. Congress, with the leadership of President
Johnson, affirmed that senseless violence is not the way to attain social progress in America. To fail to affirm that
important lesson, especially when blacks are ominous about the future prospects of the New Right movement, is to open up
the threat of having a black movement conclude that, as in South Africa, non-violence has brought no significant progress. Only
the most radical KKK or Neo-Nazi groups would support policies that would lead to an era of violent confrontation. A
strong Voting Rights Act is, finally, critical to America as she continues to champion the principles of democracy. No group
has been more victimized by the U.S. practice of democracy and federalism than has the black race. American racism has
long stood out as an “American dilemma” to quote Myrdal. The Voting Rights Act is clearly the most important move
that America has made to reverse this pattern of oppression and to extend democratic principles to all her citizens. To
fail to reaffirm that commitment is to reopen the wound of this American dilemma to the critical eye of world
opinion.

Eley is a political science major from Ahoskie, North Carolina. He is studying as an exchange student at Howard University
this year.

Page 23 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 2 October 1981
