Ray Sinclair

How to break your own record every Saturday

How many guys do you know who hold almost every school rushing record conceivable, build on it every Saturday, and still say, “I can do better”? That sounds like Ray Sinclair, and that’s exactly who it is.

For those of you who haven’t figured out just who Ray Sinclair is, I’ll give a few hints. If you’ve been to a Davidson football game, he’s the guy who carries the ball a lot and has a number 42 on his back. You know, the one coaches are always calling a “bruising fullback.” If you still don’t know who he is, go to the next home game and see for yourself that this guy can play football.

But all that’s in the present. Let’s take a look at the past to see where all that came from.

Ray played high school ball at Andrew Jackson High, in, ironically, Jacksonville, Florida, where he ground out over 2,600 yards in his career. (Sound familiar? He’s doing the same thing here.) Ray was an All-conference, All-area, and All-region selection for high school. Then he ventured north to Davidson, where he had sort of a hard time adjusting to things. “When I first came here, I didn’t think I could fit into the offense. After many mistakes, I found I could do it.” Actually, it didn’t take him all that long to adjust.

His sophomore year was a banner effort, as he led the team in rushing.

The sophomore year was fine, but it was his junior year that put Ray Sinclair on the map.

Things really got rolling when the team steamrolled Southwestern and Ray rolled up 222 yards, a single game record at Davidson. Sinclair wasn’t about to stop there, however, as he had seven 100-plus yard games last season. Oh, and as far as the season goes, he dabbled with the school record books again. His overall rushing yardage last year totaled 1,339 yards (a DC record) and he did that on the strength of 254 rushes, also a Wildcat record. Get the picture? The guy’s a record-breaker.

But Ray doesn’t pretend to have piled up all those impressive numbers without help. “The guys on the line are hard workers, and with Alvin [Atkinson, a star running back] out I felt I had to carry the weight of the running game.” Those were two of the reasons Sinclair finished last season with 2,084 career yards and 3rd in Division I-AA in rushing, yet another record with Ray’s name beside it. But lest Ray allow us to think otherwise, we won’t overlook a tertiary reason for his stats: Ray himself.

Making it for himself

Sure, it helps to have ogres on the offensive line who open holes fit for a freight train and a flawless air attack that keeps the defensive secondary solely occupied with pass receivers, but Ray has neither of these. When the gaping holes aren’t there, he has to make them himself; and when it’s impossible to make holes open for himself, he has to anyway. But that’s how to rate a good back — how many yards he makes after the first hit. Sinclair doesn’t quit. He keeps pumping those powerful thighs, and at 5’10” and 227 pounds he’s no lightweight. He gets in there and slams his body around and scratches and claws for every inch of that precious turf. And above all, he doesn’t get hurt.

So that brings us to the present. And what’s so remarkable is that every time Ray carries the ball, he’s changing the record books. For instance, what last year was a career record 423 rushes is now 582, and after Saturday will be somewhere around 605. Remember 2,084 yards as the career yardage mark? That’s ancient history. The number is now 2,669 and still growing. With a little luck, he’ll break the 3,000-yard plateau.

Defenses key on Ray

But with all that under his jersey, people wonder why Ray has only one 100-yard rushing afternoon to his credit this year. The obvious answer is that opposing defenses are keying on Ray. Boston University was so preoccupied with Sinclair that they forgot Davidson quarterback Brian Whitmire had a functional arm.

But these slow afternoons with heaps of bodies strewn in his way don’t get Ray down — he doesn’t set goals. “I believe that whenever I get into a game the outcome is already set. All I can do is try my best. If I don’t gain 100 yards, I don’t gain 100 yards. But I’m always trying my best.”

But does Ray’s best get a little better for any particular opponents? Not really, but “I like to play teams that feel like they’re dominant forces. There’s something in it when you beat Boston, Bucknell, or Lehigh.”

That pretty much brings us to the future. But for now, much of the future is still far off. “I’ll probably go to grad school later on in my life,” after a year or two off. Law school and business school hold special interest for him. As far as football goes, he figures to be an All-American only if the team does well. And the pros? Well, he’ll wait and see.

30 October 1981