The Back Page

Campus Events

Thursday, April 30

8 pm Spring Student Production: Dr. Faustus, Hodson Hall
10 pm Disco, 900 Room

Friday, May 1

8 pm Dr. Faustus, Hodson Hall
8 & 10:30 pm Pop Film: Manhattan. $1.50 or season pass.
10 pm Jazz Ensemble. Come hear your friends, 900 Room

Saturday, May 2

12-2 pm Town Day—a community extravaganza, Village Green with booths, balloons, kids, ice cream, and games galore. See article for
all the exciting details.
2 pm Finally!!! Here it is!! The Bill “Geek” Gaynor Memorial Mile Run! Ask Jeff Hamilton (Duke 231) for more
information.
8 pm Dr. Faustus, Hodson Hall
10 pm Jazz Ensemble, 900 Room
11 pm Pop Film: Return of the Pink Panther. $1.50 or season pass.

Sunday, May 3

9 pm Bridge—they’re dealin’! 900 Room

Monday, May 4

8:30 pm Gerald Ford, former President of the United States, will be the featured speaker for John Belk Day. Free
tickets now available to the general public at the Union Box Office, 2-5 pm.
9:30 pm Reception for Gerald Ford and John Belk, 900 Room

Tuesday, May 5

7 pm Triathlon. An evening of friendly competition; show your skills at backgammon, chess, and pool, 900 Room
8:15 pm Student Voice Recital. Joan Redding, Soprano; Steve Gray, Bass, Hodson Hall

Wednesday, May 6

10 am Coffee and Cokes, Gallery
12:30 pm Open Luncheon, 900 Room
8 pm Fine Film: Kanal. $1.50 or season pass.
8:15 pm Student Piano Recital. Jeb Benedict, Tracy Askew, Stan Hynds, Teresa Strawser, Robert Frierson, Mary Fant, Laurie Soper, David
Taylor, and Betsy Holton will perform, Hodson Hall

Thursday, April 30

7 pm Baseball: UNC Away

Tuesday, May 5

3 pm Baseball: Wingate Home

Thursday, May 7

Women’s Tennis: Regionals

Town residents, including Mayor MacCormac (with ice cream cone), enjoyed last year’s Town Day. Town Day is this Saturday.

Rusk, Y-Corps sponsor Town Day activities

No, your ears aren’t ringing from last night’s hangover—you’re not even having another nightmare about the E.H. Little 1 am
buzz...It’s a parade!

The Davidson community is in full swing planning the annual Town Day to be held this Saturday, May 2. Festivities
begin with a carnival sponsored by Rusk House. Come down to the track behind the gym for races and games
from 9-11 am.

At 11:15, the Solar Greenhouse at the depot will be dedicated. The rollicking parade will begin immediately after the dedication
and will wind down to the Village Green (across from Piedmont Bank). Here, young and old alike are invited to
enjoy the food, fun, and games provided by the community and several college groups. The Y Student Service Corps ice
cream social will top off the afternoon at 2:30 with lots of whipped cream. Don’t miss the chance to meet
some community kids—or be one yourself.

Ford comes to honor John Belk

Gerald Ford, President of the United States from 1974-77, will be the guest speaker for John Belk Day Monday, May
4. The former President will deliver an address in Love Auditorium at 8:30; a reception for Mr. Ford and Mr.
Belk will follow at 9:30 in the 900 Room.

John Belk, Class of '43, is one of Davidson’s most loyal and distinguished alumni. Currently president of Belk Stores Services,
Inc., Belk is a former chairman of the National Retail Merchants Association.

Belk served as mayor of Charlotte from 1969-77, longer than any mayor in Charlotte’s history. As a student here, he
was co-captain of the basketball team and Vice-President of the SGA, and is now maintaining his ties to his alma
mater as a Trustee and a member of the Wildcat Club. Belk received the Distinguished Alumnus Award from Davidson’s Alumni
Association last year.

Free tickets to the President’s speech Monday night are now available to the general public at the Union Box Office
from 2-5 pm. There is a limited number, so be sure to get yours as soon as possible. (Bring your
ID).

President Ford’s visit is sponsored by the SGA.

DCF hosts lakeside picnic

Tired of whiling away gorgeous Sunday afternoons with a book in the library? Take a trip to the lake!

Davidson Christian Fellowship will sponsor a fried chicken picnic at 5:00 this Sunday, May 10, at the lake campus. A
DCF meeting will follow. Tickets are $2.00 per person and should be purchased in advance. If you need a ride,
meet behind Cunningham Fine Arts building before 5 pm.

"We have your ape. Any attempt to rescue him and...Umph!...The Banana Brigade"—This was the message delivered to Shaw Smith this
weekend. Smith, concerned for the health of his ape, is waiting for the brigade’s demands which were expected to be
delivered sometime this week.
