The Little in the Little Kitchen

Claude Little retires after fourteen years in Mooresville's premier kitchen

by Anne Goodwin

Filet mignon wrapped in bacon. A salad bar with real bacon and bleu cheese dressing filled with hunks of cheese.
Tangy cheese spread on each table.

Many returning Davidson gourmets will recognize these delicacies as features of Little Kitchen, Mooresville’s famous steakhouse. Those students will find,
however, that during this summer of many innovations, yet another institution has changed. Claude Little, the restaurant’s owner, has retired
and will no longer be greeting people at the door with his friendly smile and demeanor.

The Beginnings of Little Kitchen

Mr. Little first became associated with restaurants as the leader of a dance band. He bought his first piano at
the age of ten, shining shoes to earn the money for it. When he was fourteen, he formed a dance
band and began to play at various night clubs. He worked in one place, the Hickory Moose Club, for sixteen
years. He spent intermissions in the kitchen “seeing how things were done,” he said.

Mr. Little found that he was not making enough money, however, and got a job with the post office in
Mooresville. His wife, Dora Little, had a luncheonette in the dime store. She decided to expand, and in 1967 she
opened a steakhouse with sixty-two seats. Mr. Little soon quit his job at the post office to help his wife.

“We didn’t advertise at first,” Mr. Little said. They had borrowed $35,000, and “knew we were going to lose it.”
Mr. Little then went to other towns and talked to people he felt could afford the price of a meal.
Sometimes he would offer free meals as samples. “We knew we had the product,” Mr. Little said. Business began to
pick up “when people found out we had the real thing.” Six years later the restaurant moved to its present
location and expanded to 186 seats. Mr. Little feels that Little Kitchen has been so successful because “two things: good
food and good service.”

In addition to being the owner of the restaurant, Mr. Little played the organ at Little Kitchen, playing old ballads.
Many students remember this unique aspect of eating there. Mr. Little said the restaurant wants to hire a new organist
from Davidson.

Little Kitchen and Davidson

When he first opened the restaurant, Mr. Little said, a well-wisher advised him “don’t mess with Davidson College students,” but
“I have the best relationship with Davidson College that anybody could possibly have...from top to bottom.”

“The way you deal with people” will determine whether or not a restaurant will have problems with its customers, he
said. When a student starts to become a nuisance, taking him aside to speak to him quietly works better than
confronting him, Mr. Little explained. “It has been a very pleasant experience to have Davidson College...in my hip pocket... They
had me in theirs,” he said.

Mr. Little has sold the restaurant to his son-in-law, Michael Atwell, but Mr. Little is sure the restaurant will “never
change” because “I feel he knows that we tried hard to build an institution.”

Claude Little, the former proprietor of Little Kitchen.

HIGHWAY 115

892-7415
CORNELIUS

Free Salad Coupon

CLIP THE COUPON AND SAVE!

Win this Putty Tat at the Village store raffle! Drawing to be held at noon Oct. 24 - Homecoming

Register each time you visit. No purchase necessary.

PUL WALLACE STORE

100 SOUTH MAIN ST. DAVIDSON 892-4440

page 18 / DAVIDSONIAN Friday 2 October 1981
