_Study of foreign cultures promotes global, personal understanding_
Tom Pafford ‘83

A heated discussion arose at a recent faculty meeting—a controversy dealing with the status of non-western studies at Davidson. I don’t know exactly what was said, or who fomented the discussion. What really concerns me is not the particulars of the issue raised at the meeting, but the possibility of attitudes which are not amenable to the study of human cultures which evolve by values very different from those prevalent in Western society. Do people fear that students will question some inveterate ideals?

I do not support any proposal to require a course in South Asian, Asian, or any other non-western studies. Although required courses are not necessarily pernicious, our education is constrained enough already. On the visceral level, the question goes beyond obvious curriculum; it concerns culture and the place of education. As a culture flourishes, proficient minds will ask questions which go beyond those which are normally sanctioned; likewise, the environment changes as more demands are placed upon it. Minds and the environment tug at the notions and ideals which have stably moored the society.

Here the role of education enters. If education is only the accumulation of facts upon unexamined premises, the evolutionary transition may be convulsive, and people may heed raving apocalypticists as these secure beliefs are shaken. However, if education includes the study of intricate relationships between a culture’s customs and environment, comparing the way different societies have handled the various problems of their environment may give insight to one’s own problems. By realizing the malleability of customs, people can lead society into new compatibility with its environment.

There is a necessity for schools to have educational goals; though I don’t like to admit it. I would rather see people follow their own circumspect academic interests, and they can guide by their research. Values may seem like such a nebulous concept, understood by men with thick glasses and dusty offices, given to metaphysical speculation. Yet values are not an uncommon factor in our life. The college trustees value good basketball teams, ergo they have imposed certain athletic goals on the community. The Humanities program values studying the development of Western thought; professors and students pursue this goal by using a specific method to analyze the material presented. (The same material presented in a different course could be examined in a very different way with different results.)

What is Davidson College’s approach to education? I sometimes wonder if the school wants to prepare students to climb a steadfast ladder to the afterlife. We must realize that our environment is changing. I have not yet met a black professor, nor a Buddhist, nor an atheist here; but these people have a major effect within our society. What do we consent to when we pledge our loyalty to the honor code and to Christian ideals on the application form? Examination of this question does not mean wholesale repudiation of those ideals, but the steadfast ladder need not presuppose a static culture.

I suggest that Davidson place more value on receptivity. Eastern and third-world countries are looking to the West for cooperation. As well as receiving from us, these cultures offer us examples of different preconceptions that will change our mental environment as exchange increases. People are needed who can create a pseudo-culture—a middle ground of understanding through which the stodgy antagonists on either side can communicate. The Iran debacle is an example of a situation where our methods of negotiating were senseless to the other side. Perhaps Davidson can help sensitize students to the needs of transition. But, I fear that an attempt to preserve customs will thwart that singular task.

---

EPC’s work was not in vain
Elizabeth Medlin ‘81 & Bill Purcell ‘82

In their meeting last week, the faculty indefinitely postponed consideration of the proposal worked out by the Educational Policy Committee for revising the core curriculum. We, as the EPC’s student members, would like to express how we view the proposal in retrospect. What exactly was the proposal in its final form? What were the reasons for suspending its consideration? What changes may—and should—ensue now?

We did favor the EPC’s proposal after the removal of the requirement for a fourth term of a foreign language. The idea of putting more substance behind Davidson's claim that it offers a good liberal arts education, as well as the hope of giving underclassmen a common core of knowledge to take to advanced courses, appealed to us. We foresaw little effect on teaching loads because many students already take “basic” courses to satisfy area requirements and because there would have been no change in the overall number of requirements. Nor did we see major changes in registration besides some increased continuity and rationale.

Then why was consideration of the proposals postponed indefinitely? The most obvious reason is that the innumerable faculty meetings devoted to EPC, while they generated much-needed discussion, eventually brought forth an array of amendments which altered the nature of the proposal. Because of the amendments, the discussions became tedious and began to confuse issues and to ignore the main points of the original proposal. The motion to postpone consideration did come unexpectedly early, but not antagonistically by any means. An important part of the motion for suspension was a thank you for the committee’s work and its success in generating serious consideration of the present curriculum.Curriculum review, the motion emphasized, does not necessarily lead to change but can confirm that what you have works. Most important to us is the fact that the proposal has inspired extensive examination of the curriculum—the goals it should be achieving as well as its successes or failures in achieving its goals. We hope this examination, even if it did not lead to core curricular change, will lead to improvements on an ad hoc basis within departments. For example, the foreign language departments are considering some significant changes now. We hope these will ensure that students will come out of the program with a higher level of competency. Also, other departments are reconsidering the range and content of courses which satisfy area requirements. We hope they will narrow the range of courses which satisfy requirements and will ensure that these courses give students a broad exposure to the subject matter. Every basic course can’t cover its discipline's content, history, and methodology, but departments should be conscious of this as their goal. Such considerations are a positive accomplishment regardless of whether the proposal passed. Finally, we would like to thank those students who did express their opinions. We appreciated all comments on the proposal, whether positive, negative, or indifferent. We both hope that anyone who is concerned about a matter which involves the EPC will not hesitate to talk to us. We want and need your questions, criticisms, and suggestions.

Requirements and values. Values, though, Biology for MATING HABITS OF ANATOMICAL STRUCTURAL ODDITIES OF EUROPEAN PERUVIAN PARASITIC HUMMING BIRDS. And now, to supplement Mr. Darwin's theory, let's turn to Genesis, first chapter. Bow your heads.

Moral Majority stands for decency, privacy
Tipp Robinson ‘83

For the past three months, hardly a day has passed without the appearance of some type of editorial or cartoon attacking or ridiculing the Moral Majority. This article is written to remove some of the gross misconceptions which many people may have about it, explain its nature, and defend its right to exist and participate in the American political process. Without this, I fear that ideas already circulating in the liberal media may become permanently embedded in some people’s minds.

In the first place, the Moral Majority was founded in 1979, not to take over the country or help defeat liberal Democratic Senators (no matter its expertise in this latter task), but because its organizers felt that a majority of decent Americans were sick and tired of having the values which they cherished rejected, and in many cases, reversed by the actions of the federal government. It was not the Moral Majority which outlawed prayer in the public schools in 1963. It was not the Moral Majority that in 1972 decided that it was all right to murder defenseless, unborn children. It was not the Moral Majority that in the mid-1970s gave credibility to homosexuality as an alternative lifestyle, and worked for special legislation and court rulings to provide civil rights protection for those indulging in homosexual behavior.

Elements that compose the Moral Majority include fundamentalists, Protestants, Roman Catholics, Jews, Mormons, and people who have no particular religious conviction at all but believe in the moral principles espoused by the Moral Majority. Some people are repulsed because they feel that the Moral Majority is attempting to force their values on them. This idea must be rejected. Powerful as the Moral Majority may have been in the last election, they were not working to convince people who did not already agree with their principles, but were only mobilizing people who agreed with their views but had previously been indifferent to politics. Thus, Moral Majority became a raft to which they could cling to and as it grew, a fulcrum to oust governmental officials who were destroying programs that were valuable to them.

James Hitchcock in his article “Is Life A Spectator Sport,” states that, “Moral conservatism can probably be defined as a view of society based on the sanctity of the family, and seeks to preserve a state of stable social relations, clearly defined moral duties, and privacy.” This stress on privacy has been the major reason why these moral majoritarians have been indifferent to politics, because they regard life as being most meaningful in its private aspects. Now they regard their positions as threatened by the liberal activists who have worked in the political realm, and recognize that they too must become involved in politics to protect their rights and defend their values.

The standard criticism directed against the Moral Majority is that the Constitution explicitly calls for a separation of church and state. There is a lot of hypocrisy here. Preachers, churches, and religious bodies have been actively engaged in American politics throughout this nation’s history, especially during the 1960s and 1970s in the civil rights and antiwar movements. The American Rabbinate has lobbied overtly on behalf of Israel for over three decades. The Catholic hierarchy has been a political force of immense influence. But when Jerry Falwell gets involved, everyone screams that he is violating the separation of church and state. The First Amendment was written not to protect the people and their laws from religious values but to protect those values from governmental tyranny. Indeed, the majority of the American colonists fled persecuting governments in order to gain religious freedom. The American people must be willing to fight to the death for the right of every American to participate in the political process. The Virginia ACLU recently endorsed the right of the Moral Majority to do what they are doing. The First Amendment guarantees this right to all. It is basic to the survival of the American republic.