Sex, drugs & rock ’n’ roll

Delbert McClinton brings his tunes to Davidson

by Anne Goodwin ‘84

On Friday, October 23, Delbert McClinton will be performing in Johnston Gym. Although he is not a household word around
campus, McClinton has attracted a following among rhythm and blues/rock and roll fans. McClinton first found success in the late
1950s with the Straightjackets, playing as the house band at Jack’s Place, an infamous roadhouse near Fort Worth. Gary Cartwright
of the Rolling Stone said the Straightjackets “were so far on the other side of the tracks, it wasn’t even
the same railroad.”

McClinton’s first record was also the first one by a white singer ever played on KMOK, Fort Worth’s black radio
station.

McClinton started another band, The Ron-Dels, in 1964. Two of their songs became hits, with one hitting the national charts.
Since then, he has released several more albums on various labels. Stuart Goldman of the Los Angeles Times said, “when
it comes time to record an LP, McClinton inevitably finds himself digging back into the sounds he was weaned on
— Hank Williams, Bobby Bland, Jimmie Rodgers, Bob Wills, Joe Tex, and Big Joe Turner. ‘I don’t know, man, the
old stuff just sounds better — that’s all.’”

Some students have questioned the wisdom of holding his concert in the gym. Union Concert Committee Chairman senior Dana Bolton
said, however, that he expects McClinton to attract a large audience, especially since the committee will be selling tickets outside
the college.

Furthermore, Dana said since the act is a “high energy” performance, the audience would not want to sit placidly in
their seats in Love Auditorium. Being in the gym will enable them to either sit on the bleachers or move
around.

Dana anticipates no major technical difficulties. The committee is bringing in Audio Unlimited, the Greensboro-based sound company which did the
Police concert, to set up and run the sound system.

In addition, the Concert Committee hopes to be able to learn to do large concerts in the gym so that
they can attract bigger names to Davidson.

Student tickets are $3.00 in advance, $5.00 at the door. Non-student tickets cost $5.00.

Interested in a Master’s Degree in Accounting? Business Administration? Public Administration?

Discover Rice University’s Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Administration — a representative will be on campus on:

Tuesday, 20 October 1981 from 10 am until noon

For further information contact the Careers Office in the basement of the Union.

LOOK, MUFFY! The alligators have arrived at the Village Store. We have book bags, knapsacks, laundry bags, stationery & invitations.

Also calendars, bulletin boards & notes. Practical and fun gifts from

THE VILLAGE STORE 110 Main Street, Davidson, North Carolina

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday, 16 October 1981
