2—The Davidsonian—January 16, 1981

News at a Glance

The SGA Career Symposium scheduled for January 14 and 15 has been postponed because of the influenza epidemic. The SGA will hold the symposium the second week in February.

The Association of American Colleges (AAC) elected Samuel R. Spencer as its chairman for 1981-82 on Saturday. Spencer was vice-chairman of the organization last year. Delegates from the 610 member colleges and universities met at the AAC’s annual convention in Denver, Colorado.

Supported by membership dues and grants, this national organization for liberal learning seeks to “enhance and promote humane and liberating learning.” The AAC aims at promoting liberal education to prospective students, business, industry, and government. As chairman, President Spencer will help guide the AAC’s current program aimed at promoting public understanding of the values of liberal education. Other current AAC programs of concern to Spencer are the simplification of federal grant procedures for member institutions and a project on the status and education of women in higher education.

The College’s Christmas fund drive raised a total of $4196.46. The money will go to support Davidson alumni work in Kenya.

What can you do?

Just about anything—writing, layout, photography, cartoons. The Davidsonian needs people in all areas of production. In most cases, no experience is necessary. Working for the paper is creative, rewarding, educational—and, amazingly enough, it’s fun. If you’re interested, please come by the office, third floor of the Union, any weekday after 10 a.m.

Racism may cost South Carolina college

GREENVILLE, SC (CPS)—A small fundamentalist college here may lose its tax-exempt status because it forbids interracial dating or marriage on the campus.

In the most recent development in a decade-long battle between Bob Jones University and the federal government, the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled during the winter intersession that the school’s prohibition of interracial dating conflicted with the nation’s “broad public interest” in eliminating racial discrimination. Consequently, the college might have to start paying federal taxes for the first time.

Bob Jones started the battle when it sued the federal government to establish the principle that it was not liable for paying $21 in federal unemployment taxes. The government responded with a counterclaim that the four-year, non-accredited university actually owed unemployment taxes of nearly $490,000 for 1971-1975.

The Internal Revenue Service eventually joined the fray, charging that Bob Jones was ineligible for tax-exempt status. The recent Appeals Court ruling overturned an earlier U.S. District Court decision that the IRS could not withdraw the college’s tax exemption.

The Appeals Court ruling, handed down in Richmond, Va., said the government should “not be providing indirect support for any educational organization that discriminates on the basis of race.”

Neither university founder and current president Bob Jones nor any school representative would comment on the ruling.

But the head of another fundamentalist school in a similar battle with the government saw ominous trends in the court decision. “The decision is a definite denial of constitutional and human rights,” says Carl McIntyre, chancellor of Shelton College in Cape May, N.J. “Rules about who may or may not date are for the good order of the college. It’s their business in the free exercise of religion as to what kind of rules they want to pass.”

McIntyre says Shelton College is also fighting what he sees as government “regulation” of religious schools. The tiny college, with an enrollment of less than 100, has sued the State of New Jersey in conjunction with the school’s refusal to comply with state accrediting procedures, McIntyre says.

Zimmermann (Continued from page 1)

proposals, said she is satisfied with the language competency. “It will get the language departments to improve their level of teaching and it will ensure students get more from their language classes,” Medlin said. The EPC changed the math competency back to an area requirement at the request of the math department, since it is hard to define math competency, Medlin noted.

Zimmermann said that some faculty members requested a more specific definition of “basic course.” Individual departments, in conjunction with the EPC, will determine which courses will count as basic courses.

Biology Professor Cindy Grant said she thought the proposals provided for a “balanced curriculum.”

According to Walker, the proposals will ultimately be approved. “The faculty will bring up questions concerning it, but it will pass,” he said.

Patterson Court parking now illegal due to construction

By FRANCES PALMER
Staff Writer

Campus security has banned parking on the inner ring of Patterson Court except during lunch and dinner times. Security Chief Jackie Hughes said this decision was prompted because of construction behind Belk which makes the Court area congested. Students are encouraged to park in the old baseball field behind Jackson Court. The area is presently used as a temporary lot during football season. No plans have been made to convert it to a permanent lot.

Meetze said no additional parking lots are being considered. According to the number of student vehicles presently registered (slightly over 600) there is sufficient parking space. 670 students had cars registered last year. There are 570 parking spaces on campus, not including off-campus parking. Hughes said.