THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, number 16
Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina
February 13, 1981

Sophomore Yvette Mingo stresses a point about the concerns of Davidson black students. See article below. (Mark Widick)

College students may receive less government aid in future
By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Students may have fewer funds available to them for financial aid if Congress passes the Carter Administration’s final budget proposals. According to the College Press Service (CPS), the proposed budget calls for a reduction of federal funds available to support Guaranteed Student Loans (GSLs), the most expensive federal financial aid program. The program is also widely used. A nationwide survey of freshmen conducted recently by the University of California indicated that one student out of five has such a loan.

Although all students have been eligible for the loans in the past, Carter’s budget proposes that from now on only students with established financial need receive GSLs. The loans would be limited “to the amount of need” to be decided by financial aid officers, according to CPS. The budget suggests using “reasonable family contributions,” other financial aid sources, and school costs as guidelines for determining “needy” students and the degree of their need.

As the program stands, students borrow money from banks or state guarantee agencies at an interest rate of 9 percent and the federal government pays the difference between that and the current rate. Carter’s proposed budget, however, “had no provision for paying the interest subsidy, and allowed banks to charge students a higher interest rate on the loans,” according to CPS.

Associate Director of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson said Davidson is “operating under the assumption that [availability of GSLs] will be as it has been in the past.” As of December 31, 1980, 275 Davidson students had GSLs. Stevenson estimated that by the time the application process is complete, 300 students will have GSLs to help finance their education. There are no extra funds available through Davidson to help “non-need” students who currently hold GSLs. “We would be able to continue supplying loans on the basis of financial need, but non-need based loans would not be available through Davidson,” Stevenson said, since financial aid at Davidson is based on need.

(Continued on page 11)

Faculty OKs PAC salary proposals
By TIM WHALEN
Assistant News Editor

The faculty passed the Professional Affairs Committee’s (PAC) recommendations for increased faculty salaries on Tuesday, according to PAC representative Lance Stell. Stell said the recommendations passed with only one dissenting vote. The recommendations are contained in a report prepared by Stell of the PAC in conjunction with Physics Professor Bob Manning of the American Association of University Professors (AAUP).

President Spencer will present the report’s five recommendations to the Board of Trustees at their meeting in two weeks. The recommendations are:

1. That the President report to the faculty whether there exists an institutional resolve to halt the deterioration in the faculty’s financial position and to begin the restoration of the losses experienced over the past 14 years.
2. That the minimum salary increase for each faculty member should offset the rise in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the previous year. Merit increases should be added to this base.
3. That the targeted increase in endowment for faculty purposes in the 1987 Program be adjusted upward to offset anticipated rises in the price level.
4. That Davidson’s extremely unfavorable relative position for salary compensation at the Assistant Professor level amongst North Carolina institutions be rectified quickly.
5. That the College aim for quadrupling of the endowment over the next 10 years.

Stell said, “the near unanimous endorsement by faculty should give the Trustees reason to consider the report closely.” Manning said, “The recommendation that salaries rise with the CPI is long overdue and the health of the institution depends on it,” adding, “I don’t see how the College can continue to pay the faculty less money every year.” He explained that over the last decade the faculty’s salaries have been steadily declining inTerms of constant dollars. However, Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann said last week that there was "no chance" of the second recommendation’s passing at the Board of Trustees meeting. The only discussion about the proposals involved the second recommendation, according to Stell. He said that some faculty members felt the administration can ensure superior performance from tenured faculty only by granting salary increases solely on a merit basis. The Faculty’s Council on Finance and Development also passed the recommendations and will present them to the Trustees, according to Council Chairman Earl MacCormac.

Students piqued at planned parking changes
By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

Proposed changes in campus parking and traffic patterns have upset some students, according to SGA senator Kevin Pressley. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze discussed the planned changes at the SGA meeting on Feb. 5. Meetze said that the administration plans to convert the road running between Belk and the laundry into a walkway. The traffic from that road will be routed around Patterson Court, turning Patterson Court into a "main artery" for traffic, according to Meetze. In addition, the parking lot on the west side of Belk will remain open, and the road running from Jackson Court to the gym will be expanded to two lanes. Pressley said, "most people think that the changes will cause more congestion around Patterson Court because the people use the roads now as much for walking as riding." He also said, "The average student wants to be able to park as close to his eating house as he can." Meetze said that walkways will be put in across Patterson Court to the eating houses. He said that the new walkways and perimeter parking will make the campus more compact. He stressed that the administration does not plan to cut down on campus parking spaces but to relocate them. Two new parking areas will be added to opposite ends of Patterson Court, he said. He also emphasized student involvement in the parking situation. The students rather than the administration should be the ones most concerned about the parking situation, he said. Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze. (Mark Widick)

Black students cite need for role models, social opportunities
By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor

Black students feel that Davidson still has some distance to go in satisfying their needs. This was the view that dominated Wednesday’s panel discussion sponsored by the Black Student Coalition. Entitled "Black America: A Davidson Perspective," the forum consisted of a panel of black students fielding questions from five international students. French Professor Charles Dockery, who moderated the discussion, said the students chose the format "because of the unique status of the international students as newcomers to our community." Dockery added that they were "unbiased" and could "shed new light on black students and their relationship to the campus." A major concern of the students was the need for more black faculty members. Junior James Jones said, "We need more black professors since they have experienced some of our same problems. It’s hard to talk to white professors since their background is different." Sophomore Yvette Mingo disagreed. "You can talk to white professors. The fact that we’re a minority is something we've always lived with and something that won’t change soon." "Black professors would act as role models, something we don’t have right now," she added. Monique Daam of Belgium asked the panel if they felt isolated from other black students. Sophomore Leo Walker said, "I personally don’t feel we're isolated from other black students." He also pointed out that athletics is a common focus for many Blacks on campus. "Athletics is important but an athlete at Davidson must be a student as well. We all have our academic background in common." Senior Vincent Parker felt athletics often serve to divide Black students. "I don’t play basketball or football. The majority of Black guys here do. I felt isolated when I came freshman year because all the other guys had been here for a few weeks working out and already knew each other.

(Continued on page 11)

Publication ceases
With this issue The Davidsonian ceases publication for Winter term. Publication will resume on March 13, 1981.