Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Vlad Moros The Matic Department has a new choral director this year, Mr. W. Vladimir Morosan. Arriving at Davidson late
last spring, Mr. Morosan took over direction of the choral program after the death of the former director, Donald Plott,
almost a year ago. Born in Munich, Germany, Mr. Morosan received his college education in the United States. He began
as a chemistry major at Occidental College and became involved in the music program there as a secondary interest. Participation
in the chorus led Mr. Morosan to change his major to music. From Occidental, he went on to earn his
Master's in music in choral conducting from the University of Illinois in 1976. He is presently working on his doctorate
in music.

Mr. Morosan is no stranger to the small college atmosphere. Referring to Occidental as the “Davidson of the West,” he
noted that the colleges have similar academic standards, and Mr. Morosan is impressed with what he has seen here. “Davidson
has a lot of things going for it — I’ve noticed a lot of motivation on the part of the
students. Davidson is fortunate in that respect.” This sort of motivation is “everything one would expect,” he said. Some students
are so multi-talented that they cannot focus on one particular interest, but chorus members still manage to make the large
time commitment that he expects. Mr. Morosan sees music as a limited, difficult profession, but believes it to be an
interesting, worthwhile experience. Music, he says, is an opportunity to express oneself and to connect with others.

By Mark W. Batten '85

Mixed Chorus Program change requires Male Chorus and Women’s Chorus members to sing together. To sing in the Male Chorus
or the Women’s Chorus this year, one must sing in the mixed ensemble also. To many, this struck a discordant
note. The music department, in order to build a program more in keeping with Davidson’s co-ed character, is shifting its
focus from the traditional Male Chorus and Women’s Chorus to a new mixed group. The Male Chorus and the Women’s
Chorus will still practice separately, in addition to their weekly rehearsals as a mixed group. In other words, it will
be “one group with two vital components.”

Women’s Chorus president, Karen Hopper, says chorus members were “hesitant” about the change. “We do not feel that our input
was asked for. It was a departmental decision.” She added that “the men perhaps had more reservations because the Male
Chorus has been established for so long.” (The Women’s Chorus was formed in the spring of 1976 while the Male
Chorus has been performing for over seventy-five years.) When rumor of the change circulated last spring, many became quite concerned
— some became angry — and there was talk of boycotting this fall’s auditions. They did not like the idea
of “losing” the Male Chorus and felt that this change, coming so soon after the death of their former director
Mr. Donald Plott, was “like a stab in the back,” Chorus Vice President Walt Dean said. “When Mr. Plott was
here he definitely dominated the music scene. When he died, many people felt the department took advantage of the situation.”
From this initial response, Male Chorus President Bryan Duke was...Prepared to face a lot of resentment and anger from chorus
members this fall, he found, however, that many of the adamant feelings had disappeared during the summer, “probably because the
old guard — the seniors who knew Don Plott best and who had the longest ties to the group —
had graduated.” Walt Dean expressed the feeling of most returning members when he said, “I don’t like the change, but
it doesn’t bother me enough not to sing.”

Now there seems to be a wait-and-see attitude about the whole situation; no one is extremely positive, but no one
is extremely negative either. Both groups are simply trying to hold their own. As one member said, “We have watched
the emphasis go from the Male Chorus to the Women’s Chorus and now to the Mixed Chorus, and many are
fearful that without the focus, the Male Chorus will disintegrate. It’s kind of hard to get out of the limelight.”
Karen added, “It put Bryan and myself [as Presidents] in a difficult position. We both felt that we were in
danger of losing something that we had really worked for. We have to be positive about the change, but at
the same time, we can’t look as though we don’t care.”

Vladimir Morosan, the new director, faced working under an unpopular program. With the change in program came a new director,
Music Instructor Vladimir Morosan. New jobs, as a rule, are challenging, and his is no exception: he is faced with
change and inevitable comparisons to the highly respected and beloved former directors Mr. Plott and Linda Warren. Nevertheless, chorus members
realize that Morosan is not responsible for the change, but that he is simply filling the position created by the
change. Karen describes Morosan as more of a “technician” than the previous directors: “The rehearsals are more formal and structured
than what we are used to. It’s very intense; every minute is used for a specific purpose.”

Chorus members are impressed by his professional knowledge and talent and by the enthusiasm and interest he has shown in
the program so far. Karen said, “He has really worked; he has made a great effort to work with the
officers, and we have come to a lot of agreements. He wants our participation.” Mr. Morosan is excited about Davidson’s
music program and about the possibilities available for the Mixed Chorus. He expects the new group to “give us a
variety and flexibility in programming” and to provide something for every taste — everything from Renaissance to Duke Ellington. He
is working hard to achieve that “delicate balance between artistic perfection and entertainment,” and by all indications, is succeeding. Hopper
says, “I think the community will be surprised and pleased with the quality of our concerts.”

Under the new plan, the Male Chorus, the Women’s Chorus, and the Mixed Chorus will each perform one third of
the concert program. This does not mean, however, that each group will not be able to perform individually if the
opportunity arises. Mr. Morosan says the Male Chorus and the Women’s Chorus will continue to be supported, “as long as
both can stand on their own.” He expects the demand for the concerts to continue to be great and adds,
“At a time when budgets usually end up cutting the arts, it is a strong commitment to music at Davidson.”

By Tracy Thompson '83
RAVENSCROFT / Friday, 6 November 1981.
