Campus Events

Thursday, April 2

10 p.m. Disco 900 Room

Friday, April 3

10 a.m. Professor Antje Lemke of Syracuse University discusses “The Nature and Significance of Albert Schweitzer.” Morrison Room

12 noon Sign-up luncheon with Professor Antje Lemke. Make your reservations at the Union Desk. 900 Room

8 p.m. Pop Film: French Post Cards. $1.50 or season pass. Love Auditorium

9:30 Idols, a new wave rock band, performs original compositions. Admission free. 900 Room

Saturday, April 4

2 p.m. Kite day revisited. Bring your kite and a lot of enthusiasm! Prizes will be awarded. Soccer Field

5:30 Spaghetti Dinner sponsored by the FIJI’s. $3.50 per person. Fannie & Mable’s

9 p.m. KA disco for Muscular Dystrophy. Admission $1. KA House

9:30 Idols. Enjoy some new wave originals; free. 900 Room

Sunday, April 5

11 a.m. Dr. Ernest T. Campbell, Stanley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecturer, will speak about “Following Jesus or Believing in Christ.” This is the first of a two-day series. DCPC

7 p.m. Vespers: Dr. Ernest T. Campbell discusses “Lovers and Tacticians.” DCPC

8:30 p.m. Professor William Van Alstyne of Duke Law School will speak on “A Graphic Review of the First Amendment.” Sponsored by PIRG, Pre-law Committee, and the Women’s Center. Morrison Room

9:00 p.m. Informal Bridge Games. If you don’t know how, you can learn here! 900 Room

Monday, April 6

10 a.m. Dr. Ernest Campbell: “How Shall We Think of Salvation?” Gallery

10 a.m. Dr. William Van Alstyne: “A Requiem for ERA.” Morrison Room

7 p.m. Vespers: Dr. Ernest Campbell: “How Big is Your Bible?” DCPC

Tuesday, April 7

10 a.m. Dr. Campbell gives the final lecture of the Stanley Distinguished Christian Scholar series: “How Shall We Think of History?” Gallery

8:15 p.m. The Tartini Trio performs Hayden, Dvorak, Smetana. Admission free. Hodson Hall

Wednesday, April 8

10 a.m. Coffee and Cokes. Gallery

12:30 p.m. Open Luncheon: “Alcohol—Responsible Use or Rabid Abuse?” 900 Room

3 p.m. Freshman/Sophomore Life/Work Planning Morrison Room

8 p.m. Fine Film: My Brilliant Career. $1.50 or season pass. Love Auditorium

Friday, April 3

2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Atlantic Christian College Away

2:45 p.m. Tennis: South Carolina Home

3 p.m. Baseball: Pfeiffer Home

Saturday, April 4

10 a.m. Women’s Tennis: East Carolina Away

10 a.m. Davidson Relays Home

1 p.m. Tennis: Winthrop Home

1 p.m. Baseball: UTC Home

2 p.m. Sailing Regatta: Duke Away

2 p.m. Rugby Team: UNC-G Home

Monday, April 6

1 p.m. Rifle Team: WCC Championship Match, Wofford Home

2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Guilford College Away

2 p.m. Tennis: High Point College Home

3 p.m. Baseball: N.C. State Home

Wednesday, April 8

2 p.m. Tennis: Johnson C. Smith Away

Thursday, April 9

2 p.m. Women’s Tennis: Presbyterian Home

2:30 p.m. Tennis: Furman Home

The Back Page

Dr. Ernest T. Campbell will be the featured speaker for a series of lectures sponsored by the Staley Distinguished Christian Scholar Lecture Program and Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The three-day series begins with a sermon, “Following Jesus or Believing in Christ,” during the 11 a.m. worship service on April 5 at DCPC. Dr. Campbell will give subsequent talks at 10 a.m. on Monday and Tuesday in Chambers Gallery and at Vespers Services in DCPC, 7 p.m. on Sunday and Monday.

Dr. Antje Lemke, Professor of Information Studies at Syracuse University, will be speaking on “The Nature and Significance of Albert Schweitzer,” followed by a sign-up luncheon in the 900 Room at 12:30. Dr. Lemke has close-hand experience with notable figures including Schweitzer, Albert Einstein, and Paul Tillich. Her father was the famed German theologian Rudolf Bultmann.

The Tartini Trio, a distinguished instrumental ensemble from Yugoslavia, will be playing in Hodson Hall on Tuesday, April 7 at 8:15. The program will feature pieces by Smetana, Dvorak, and Hayden. Members of the group are Dejan Bravnicar, violinist; Ciril Skerjanec, cellist; and Aci Bertoncelj, pianist. They are three of Yugoslavia’s most eminent soloists and started the Trio in 1966 after graduating from the Academy of Music in Ljubljana. Their performance is part of the Chamber Music Series, co-sponsored by the Davidson College Union and the Music Department. Admission is free.

Dr. William Van Alstyne, Perkins Professor of Law from Duke Law School, will give two lectures on contemporary legal issues this week. His first lecture, “A Graphic Review of the First Amendment,” explains the different theories that the Supreme Court has developed concerning freedom of speech. It will be given at 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room, Sunday, April 5. “A Requiem for ERA” is the intriguing title for Dr. Van Alstyne’s second lecture on Monday at 10 a.m. in the Morrison Room. The amendment’s various interpretations will be discussed.

Most of our music has roots in the early to mid-60’s. For that reason, many people lump us into the new wave movement, but we like to have our compositions unique and interesting by juxtaposing the various melodies,” said Barry Marler, organizer, guitarist, and vocalist for the Idols. This South Carolina group will be playing its original pieces in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. Other members are Laura Littlefield, lead vocalist; Geoff George, bass; and Tony Young, percussion. “Come ready to dance! Admission is free.