The dreaded stereotype allows beginning for communication
Mike Mason ‘83

Two weeks ago at the hall counselor retreat, I mentioned that the stereotype many Davidson men seem to hold about
their female counterparts is a very useful one. I may as well have offered to nuke a few babies or
push somebody’s grandmother down a flight of stairs. There were a few, mostly females, who informed me (nicely) that they
were profoundly perturbed; but never one satisfied with outrage on a small scale, I thought I might as well provoke
the gods of feminist sensibilities here and see what happens. I figure at worst I'll be struck by pink lightning
or turned into a decoupaged statue on my way to the post office—it would be divine justice anyway.

I have no idea whence the image of Davidson girls as unattractive and/or too intellectual and/or entirely straight came; I
could give dozens of examples to the contrary. Anybody who was anywhere near Rusk the night they had their freshman
party could. So for girls to blither “it’s just not true” every time someone resurrects that chubby, prim, and myopic
image is a mistake; they are not really getting at the problem. We know it’s not true; the question is,
why does the stereotype survive in spite of its falsity?

The image survives at Davidson because it is a useful crutch—and not just for guys; girls employ that stereotype to
their own advantage as well. Why didn’t Matilda get a date last weekend? Why, because Davidson guys all think Davidson
girls are no fun; it can't be because she emasculated the last guy she went out with, has armadillo breath,
and is proud of both. Too many girls are content to pin their lack of social success on male stereotypes,
and so they have a vested interest in keeping the image alive. In addition, I think it is pretty strange
for some girl to scream about her lack of social life and claim the fault lies with every man on
campus. Ultimately, one is responsible for his or her own social life, and it is about time girls at Davidson
started being responsible for theirs. Why complain about not “being asked?” Why not ask? The only answer I’ve ever heard
to this question is that other girls would condemn the askers because they’ve given up their pedestals. If a Davidson
coed wants to remain on her altar, hoping worshippers somehow will wander towards her—fine; it is a position girls as
a whole seem to inflict on themselves. But don’t complain about a lack of worshippers when all you’ve done is
stand there, trying desperately to radiate some attractive quality. Reach out a little bit. The guy who objects to “being
asked” in principle lacks confidence in himself; but the girl who refuses to do anything to improve her situation lacks
both self-confidence and a sense of self-worth.

If anyone, though, uses the stereotypical image of Davidson women with gay abandon (so to speak), it’s the guys. Why
did Johnny, who likes pungent females, study in his room Saturday night when he knew Matilda wasn’t doing anything? Probably
because he was afraid of being rejected, or already had been burned by some other coed, and wasn’t in the
mood to have his ego stomped on again; but if you ask him, Johnny is most likely to resort to
that most convenient of institutions, the stereotype, by way of explanation for his behavior. He didn’t go out with Matilda
because she really is a Davidson girl, and everyone knows what that means. The image the stereotype conjures is one
he can use to cover up real causes for his behavior—fear, disappointment, whatever.

I make a pretty inadequate armchair psychiatrist, but I believe that is why the stereotype crops up most often among
males—and I’m not sure that it’s such a bad thing. Someone who has been rejected needs to talk about the
problem; Johnny will want to speak to his roommate about Matilda’s actual or probable refusal to see his worth. The
stereotype provides a framework in which Johnny can start talking, knowing that roommate Fred isn’t condemning him for his lack
of success. There is an assumption between the two that the fault will be attributed to Davidson females until such
time as Johnny can come to terms with himself, which hopefully takes place soon after Johnny has managed to voice
his disappointment and confusion through the aid of conversation with others.

In a sense, then, the stereotype is a sort of safety net here at Davidson. It is useful during those
times your ego comes plunging down from the heaven of social acceptance; it stops Davidson males from beginning a never-ending
cycle of self-recrimination and inability to discuss problems. As a faculty member pointed out to me not long ago, there
is the danger that the male ego, reclining in its safety net, will refuse to climb back up the pole
and start the social acrobatics again—that is, that someone might actually come to believe...in this image for a long period
of time. I think that’s unlikely; it is so obviously untrue that it’s hard to believe someone could hold to
it for long. If someone did so, it could only mean he had deeper problems elsewhere, and I’d say let
him keep to the stereotype as problems. The fact that it is untrue is incidental. That last statement might cause
Grandma some problems, but I think a humane one to make. Short-term delusion can help some people solve problems they
can’t tackle straight on, and the Davidson stereotype of women serves that function for both women and men. Unlike most
stereotypes, ours is not prejudicial—as far as I know, it alone has never presented a block to male/female interaction here.
It only comes into play after such action has brought on difficult personal problems, and I think it is wrong-headed
to view a stereotype in the same way as a prejudice. So let Matilda scream; let Johnnie sermonize. In their
own ways, they are only working out their own problems, and their process has little or no bad effects for
the rest of Davidson. Mike Mason is just agog at all the wonderful things to be found in the world
around him.

SGA looks to new challenges following a “fine” year

David Waddill ‘81

Although I do not usually enjoy the prospect of writing an essay, when The Davidsonian asked me to write this
article, I said I would be happy to, for it gives me the chance to both thank students and senators
for the fine job they did in the SGA this year, and to share some of my thoughts about the
SGA’s work in the future. The senators worked hard, but there was also a considerable number of non-elected students who
lead and served on many SGA committees. I hope those of you who read the minutes or participated in the
various SGA projects would agree with me that they did an excellent job of promoting the interests of present and
future Davidson students.

One of our major accomplishments this year was raising $60,000 in alumni gifts through the telephonathon. The Trustees and the
Development Office were amazed that 400 students could raise that much money in two weeks. As the Trustees remarked at
their last meeting, the long-range benefits to the College from our effort will be many times that size. We also
had a group of 50 students writing Trustees regularly to keep them abreast of student issues. We are now finishing
months of work on the SGA Admissions Weekend and the Career Symposium. This weekend 80-100 high school seniors will visit
the campus, and next week (March 30-31) a group of business and community leaders will be here to share their
experience with students.

We are now compiling a course evaluation to send to freshmen next year to help them choose courses. Because many
of last year’s seniors complained that not enough corporate recruiters came to campus, we have worked with the Trustees and
Ken Wood’s office to improve corporate placement for seniors. In fact, the Trustees have agreed to budget more money for
placement next year. On May 4 we will host former President Gerald Ford for John Belk Day. And finally, this
year we have no classes on Good Friday thanks to an SGA petition to the Executive Committee of the faculty.
Enjoy the break.

All of these are highly visible accomplishments. There has also been valuable behind-the-scenes work done by groups like the Security
and Grounds Committee. I believe we have accomplished many worthwhile projects and goals. As new people move into the senate
after upcoming elections, I am confident they will blend with the veterans to form an even more effective organization. I
feel uncomfortable trying to project what the Senate could and should do in the future—this will be their own decision.
Nevertheless, there are several issues which will no doubt be addressed in the coming months.

—Terry Wade has requested the Trustees to change the self-selection system on Patterson Court. Although the SGA’s voice is not
final on this matter, they will no doubt want to study the proposal.

—The admissions policy must also be continually reexamined. The SGA can play an active part here.

—The idea of an on-campus post office (with free intra-campus mail) has been raised and merits careful evaluation.

—The SGA may also choose to work more closely with the students they appoint to faculty committees each spring. This
would be difficult to coordinate, but may result in better work.

Many senators have already expressed an interest in continuing some of this year’s projects, such as the phonathon, the SGA
admissions weekend, the Career Symposium, Trustee Contact Committee and Rides to the Airport. I am glad to see an interest
in maintaining them. The SGA and its new leadership will undoubtedly move in ways I do not foresee. I am
confident, however, that their work will be positive and effective. I wish them the best of luck in the coming
year.

SGA President David Waddill is a senior history major from Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
