Filling in for psychology

David Rowe and Alvin Smith replace on-leave profs

THIS TERM THE PSYCHOLOGY DEPARTMENT
has two “fill-in” professors — Dr. Daniel
Rowe and Dr. Alvin Smith.

Dr. Rowe has been teaching in Dr. Kello’s place
since spring term and will be around for the rest of the
year. Dr. Rowe graduated from Davidson in psychology,
then began his doctorate work at the University
of Tennessee. There he taught classes and published
experiments concerning “contrast effects in learning.”
His wife is currently doing graduate work in biology
at UT, which accounts for his conspicuous
weekend absences.

Dr. Rowe likes reading science fiction (Heinlein
and Asimov are his favorites), and he used to be a
Cubs fan.

Alvin Smith
Dr. Alvin Smith is filling in for Dr. Brockway during
the fall term. Dr. Smith is a psychology professor
from St. Andrew’s College and has been instrumental
in St. Andrew’s program to improve the self-image of
wheelchair-bound students. The program includes
teaching them how to cook, drive, swim, and generally
become more independent. The project is
financed by a grant from the Department of Housing
and Urban Development. Upon graduation from high
school in Union, Missouri on 15 May 1944, Dr. Smith
was drafted into WWII. (Fortunately, the war ended
before he finished training.)

He began studying electrical engineering at Kansas
State and the Universities of North Dakota and
Oregon before he decided that he had “had enough
slide-rule pushing.” He then entered the University of
Missouri intending to major in philosophy, but after
his first psychology course he changed his mind. He
received his psychology B.A. in 1950.

Avoiding a near-certain call-up into the Korean
conflict, Dr. Smith enrolled in Western Seminary in
Pittsburg (now Pittsburg Seminary). He served as
minister of Beth-el and Benton City Presbyterian
Churches in Missouri while attending graduate
school in psychology at the University of Missouri.
He began teaching at Hampden-Sydney College
in 1956 and moved to St. Andrews in 1965. Dr. Smith
has published works on mathematically gifted adolescents
and the history of psychology.

By Brian Butler '84.

Visiting psychology
professor Al Smith

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981
