ts =) am May 1, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Discriminatory admissions policy is neither moral nor practical

Davidson College has an admissions policy which discriminates against women. It states that no more than roughly one third of
the student body at any one time shall be women. While the Admissions Committee tries to evaluate men and women
according to the same standards, this policy forces them to rank-order men and women separately. Approximately two-thirds of all those
admitted to the College are selected from the men’s list, and the remaining third from the women’s. It sometimes happens
as a result of this policy that superior women are excluded to allow for the inclusion of inferior men. These
women are excluded for the simple reason that they happen to have been born female, much in the same way
that some men used to be excluded from Davidson because they had been born black.

I believe that the present admissions policy is immoral and unconscionable. It should be replaced at once with a simple
policy based essentially on merit which does not discriminate in any way on the basis of sex. The new policy
should be sex-wise quota free and essentially sex blind. Howsoever desirable or worthwhile, relative to certain community interests, it might
be to have a student mix of approximately 50% male and 50% female, it would be unwise and unfair to
engineer such a ratio by having an admissions policy with sex as a relevant criterion. Women and men should be
rank-ordered together, with admission to the College offered to those who are most meritorious. To exclude even one woman qua
female in order to admit just one man qua male, or vice versa, would be to commit an egregious wrong.

But not only is it wrong to have an admissions policy which discriminates on the basis of sex, it is
also incompatible with the spirit of the College’s Statement of Purpose. “Davidson is a college (which)... emphasizes those... activities which
liberate mankind physically, mentally and spiritually... (Its) primary purpose is to develop persons of humane instincts... and of Christian character...”
How can we in good conscience deliberately discriminate against women and simultaneously stress our desire to liberate mankind, develop humane
instincts, and build a Christian character?

I do not wish to impugn the motives of anyone who believes that Davidson should have an admissions policy which
takes the sex of the applicant into account. Indeed, good and well-meaning people are to be found on both sides
of this delicate and difficult moral issue. Those who disagree with me should never be accused of being irrational, selfish
or insensitive. They offer careful and well-thought-out arguments designed to justify their deep-felt conviction that it is not at all
improper to have a sex-based admissions policy, and that such a policy serves the greatest possible good of the College.

Lest we be accused therefore of unfairly dismissing the position of those who consider sex a relevant admissions criterion, we
need to carefully examine their supportive arguments. Perhaps the best and most frequently heard argument in support of sex-based admissions
criteria is the one of the “institutional egoist.” The institutional egoist measures the morality of a policy in terms of
its consequences for the institution in whose behalf he is speaking. If the consequences for the institution are in the
balance good, then the policy should be adopted. If the consequences for the institution are in the balance bad, then
the policy should be rejected. The institutional egoist refuses in principle to take into account the consequences that a policy
might have for anyone outside his institution. An institutional man can thereby justify to himself a policy which harms people
if he understands that policy as beneficial to his institution.

It is not my purpose here and now to philosophically assess institutional egoism as a moral theory which guides conduct.
I happen to think it is false, but shall assume for the sake of argument that it is true. What
reasons might an institutional egoist at Davidson have for rejecting an admissions policy based on merit which does not discriminate
on the basis of sex? He might offer any or all of the following reasons. Such a policy will: 1)
seriously disrupt many of the institutional structures presently in place at Davidson, such as the athletic program and dormitory space;
2) seriously affect the type of education Davidson provides; 3) change the image of the College away from a predominantly
male school; 4) cause a decrease in alumni giving; 5) lead to a decrease in faculty salaries; 6) eventually lead
to financial ruin; 7) cause Davidson to become a predominantly women’s college.

What are we to say about these reasons? Well, 1) and 3) may be true, but would they necessarily be
bad for Davidson? Perhaps a de-emphasis of male-dominated athletics would be good for Davidson. The issue of dorm space is
irrelevant. As for Davidson’s male image, most people agree that Davidson has become a better school with a better image
since the admission of women students. I think its image would be all the higher were it known that the
College had a nondiscriminatory admissions policy.

Number 2) is probably false. Davidson will remain a small, quality liberal arts college whether or not it has a
sex-blind admissions policy. After all, it remained a quality liberal arts college after blacks and women were first admitted. Now
(4), (5) and (6) involve judgments which, to the best knowledge, are based on very scanty evidence or none at
all. Many people who believe (4), (5) and (6) seem to base their belief on a mere gut feeling. Such
gut feelings are notoriously inadequate as grounds for establishing causal judgments. There is even some reason to think that (4),
(5) and (6) are as causal judgments quite dubious. How would one show, say, that a nondiscriminatory admissions policy will
cause the financial ruin of Davidson? (Space will not permit me to argue the point here.) The matter should at
the least be subjected to careful logical and empirical scrutiny.

Number (7) also appears to lack appropriate empirical support. What scientific studies can be adduced to confirm (7)? If anything,
soft evidence prima facie disconfirms (7). Simply look at other small, quality, liberal arts colleges that have gone coed in
a nondiscriminatory way. Have they become...Predominantly women’s colleges? It appears not. Traditionally, colleges have been predominantly male or predominantly female
only by design. Those that haven’t been designed one way or the other usually dovetail genetics and turn out about
50% male and 50% female. The institutional egoist does not seem able to justify his attempt to reject a nondiscriminatory
admissions policy for Davidson. He might then consider the possibility that Davidson College will actually benefit by having a policy
based on merit which does not discriminate in any way on the basis of sex. Permit me to close with
two questions. What would happen to a faculty member whose stated grading policy makes it more difficult for a woman
to get a good grade than a man? Could he ever justify his policy by claiming that it is for
the good of the College?

Dr. Robert Maydole is the author of a proposal for equal access admissions which the faculty will consider next Tuesday
(see page 1). In spite of numerous requests to both students and faculty members, the Davidsonian was unable to obtain
an article contradicting Dr. Maydole’s position.

In American “liberal” democracy it is ironic that individual liberty is so easily usurped for “social” or “moral” principles. Unfortunately,
laws based on any principle can be blunt instruments which fail in cases requiring fine distinctions in degree and intent.
I submit that laws forbidding euthanasia are dangerously flawed due to an unjust application of otherwise just principles. The harm
principle is a widely accepted and applied basis of law, which restricts individual liberty in order to safeguard the health
and interests of others. I define harm as any action which by commission or omission directly or indirectly causes damage
to another’s person, property, reputation, or social environment. Though my conception of harm is broad, its proper application to law
demands precision. Murder is the most odious infringement on another’s liberty and person. Secular laws against homicide are justifiably based
on the harm principle. Should such laws encompass cases of euthanasia? I think not.

By definition, euthanasia is “the act of putting to death painlessly a person suffering from an incurable and painful disease
or condition.” It is therefore an act of mercy, a benefit to the afflicted. If one refers to the definition
of harm cited above, a lack of action to deter pain is a harm. Any law which prevents an active
alleviation of physical harm runs counter to the very principle which it is designed to uphold. Seen in this light,
euthanasia logically supports the goals espoused by society and the harm principle.

To illustrate my argument, let us consider the case of a teenage girl who is involved in a motorcycle accident.
She sustains massive head injuries and goes into a coma. Her bodily functions are artificially sustained by hospital machinery. The
question arises as to the implications of taking her off the life-support systems. The doctors consider the high probability of
brain damage, if not paralysis, and contend that the action would be passive euthanasia. The state, however, calls it manslaughter.
In this case, there are two valid arguments in favor of the doctor’s position. First, the life-support systems do not
give the girl any more liberty; they merely increase her power. To “unplug” her would not deprive her of the
liberty to live, it would only deprive her of some “power” to live (no pun intended). If the girl does
not have the ability to live without the inventions, the question of liberty is nonsense, because liberty presupposes ability. Second,
consider the tremendous economic costs of hospitalization which can destroy a family’s welfare, to say nothing of the great emotional
stress involved.

There are many who would voice loud objections to my views. I will consider their cases and then look to
the misconceptions on which they are based. The first group comprises those who consider the “right to life” to be
inalienable. They contend that no will, contract, or request can waive that right. Therefore, euthanasia becomes premeditated murder. This objection
appeals not to the harm principle, but to the principle of morality. If the separation of church and state is
to be maintained, moral principles should not be intermingled with secular legal codes—unless the principles are universally agreed upon. Murder
is a crime because it causes harm. This of course coincides with moral teachings. Euthanasia, as proven above, does not
qualify as a harm and should not be outlawed. Any moral considerations reside in the domain of personal liberty.

A second objection tries to establish that the taking of life, no matter what the reason, cheapens the value of
life. To the proponents of this view I ask, “is there any intrinsic value in a life that no one
considers worth living?” Would not such an existence be torture? Does not torture strike at the roots of civilized behavior
as much as the intentional taking of life? This view is self-contradictory in as much as it advocates harm as
a means to prevent harm.

The last objection is the most logical. It questions the individual’s ability to accurately perceive his condition. Perhaps he will
make a wrong judgment or decision. Could not an afflicted person be coerced by pain to wish his own death?
Similarly, could the physician be wrong in his assessment of the patient’s condition? To this objection I have two responses.
First, the individual may feel that his choices are limited but that death is the best option. No one can
doubt the sincerity of a decision of that magnitude. Second, physicians are not infallible, but their advice is considered expert
in a court of law. There is no reason to believe that a legislature could make a better decision. Instead
of laws against euthanasia, the lawmakers should be concerned with ways to prevent abuses of it. If the “right to
life” is a topic for legal debate, I submit that the “right to die” deserves legal reflection.

Michael Kehs is a junior political science major from Atlanta, Georgia. This article is adapted from an article Mr. Kehs
wrote for Philosophy Professor Lance Stell’s Social and Political Philosophy class.
