Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The one that got away

by Mark Elmore '82

In a week with only one game, the Davidson soccer team lost to Belmont Abbey 1-0 in the last 7 seconds.

On their final offensive surge, Belmont Abbey shot and hit a Davidson defender and the ball rolled over the endline causing a corner kick.

The kick sailed over Davidson's fullback on the near post and hooked into the goal untouched for a last-second score. "We were just unlucky," admitted Senior Co-Captain Alex McCallie, "for we played them equal in the second half and their goal wasn’t really the result of superior play." In fact, Davidson was only outshot 19 to 17, and actually had better opportunities when they did fire on goal.

Coach Slagle stated that "we have continually come out slow in the beginning of games. This game, we failed to open up later on like we have in the past." As a result, play was sloppy and concentrated on one side of the field.

Davidson played much better the second half; they built offense slowly and worked the ball up the field with fullbacks. When they stopped trying give-and-go passes, they put together consecutive play, built momentum and dominated.

McCallie eased the loss by saying, "It deflated our ego and showed us we really have to work to win." Well, the Cats will certainly have to work Saturday as they face Washington & Lee at home.

The game should be interesting. Last year at Lexington they virtually refused Davidson use of their training room before the game, and the match turned into an angry battle in the cold rain. Davidson lost 2-0 and has not forgotten.

---

Marian Hill and Randy McManus

page 8 DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

One on one — Chris Roberts puts the move on an opponent.

Athletes of the Week

MARIAN HILL and RANDY McMANUS
Cross Country

Marian, a junior from Des Moines, Iowa, and Randy, a senior from Beaufort, South Carolina, broke the tape in the women’s and men’s Cross Country races last weekend at Lynchburg. Marian, who took first place with a time of 21:42, is rebounding from a slow start. Randy, also battling back from an atypical start, pressed on despite painful leg cramps to complete the hilly five-mile course in 27:22. Each harrier led his team to a win.