January 16, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Brave New World barely escapes ban in Iredell County

At an open meeting in Mooresville on January 5, the Iredell County School Board voted unanimously to retain Aldous Huxley's Brave New World as an approved text for use in its schools.

The decision came after months of effort by parents and clergymen associated with the Moral Majority to have the book removed from classroom use.

Davidson's English department sent a collective letter urging the board not to ban Brave New World. English Professor Randy Nelson, an Iredell County native, made a personal plea on behalf of the book at the December board meeting.

The conflict began early last autumn when Charles Campbell, father of a North Iredell High School student, lodged a request for the book’s withdrawal from the school’s College Preparatory English course, taught mostly to sixteen-year-olds.

Although the novel has been a part of the course for 17 years, this was the first time it was the subject of a complaint.

As soon as Campbell submitted his request, the school board, following county procedures, removed Brave New World from use while it reviewed the case.

At the time, Campbell expressed the view that the novel would “make a good bonfire.” He later retracted this statement.

Campbell presented his case to two local clergymen linked with the Moral Majority. North Iredell’s media committee heard their case and decided to keep the book in use. Campbell then appealed to the county school board.

At their December 11 meeting, the board heard arguments from both sides but made no decision until January 5.

The clergymen’s arguments for barring the novel rested largely upon its allegedly immoral and blasphemous content. They claimed that the book was anti-family, pro-drugs, and anti-God.

The text received its most powerful defense from the high school students themselves, who said they found Huxley’s satire not only accessible but also a useful and stimulating aid to the discussion of problems of modern society such as individual and collective responsibility, education, and censorship. The clergy claimed they could find no satirical intent on the part of Huxley.

The plaintiffs argued that they were not in favor of “censorship” or “book-burning,” but merely of removing a single objectionable book and of preserving parents’ and children’s rights to choose what they read. The anti-censorship lobby countered that this presented the child with no choice at all.

When the board announced its decision, the North Iredell High School media committee submitted a proposal to change the present county procedures for reviewing protested materials.

Under the proposed guidelines, individual students could, at the discretion of teacher and principal, read alternative texts if parents raised strong objections to a particular book.

The media committee proposal would also keep a protested book in circulation until a final decision was made. The committee called the old procedure of banning a book as soon as a complaint was filed a breach of the principle “Innocent until proven guilty.” The English department had also recommended this change.

The school board will probably vote on these proposals at next month’s meeting.

---

200 register for the draft

By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Writer

Davidson men born in 1962 registered for the draft in large numbers last week as required by law.

Davidson postal clerk Jack Burris said approximately 200 people filled out the government forms at the post office. There were no problems, he said, and most men included their Social Security numbers on their registration cards.

The numbers are not mandatory although they make it easier for the government to contact an individual.

The Davidson Registration and Draft Information Service (DRDIS), an informal organization of students concerned about the draft, counseled men not to include the numbers. In the event of a draft, it would be harder for the government to trace a draft evader, they argued.

The enactment of the registration by the Carter Administration prompted a group of about 15 students to organize the DRDIS to provide counseling and information to students concerned about the draft, according to a spokesman for the organization.

The organization provides literature to local high schools as well as college students. It plans to invite speakers to the College to counsel students on how to obtain conscientious objector status.

Males born in 1963 are required to register during the year as they turn 18, according to Burris.

---

GET-A-WAY

Ski all day and come home to cuddle up by the fireplace in secluded hideaways in the Great Smokies.

Thirty dollars for two; $35 for four nightly.
Mountain Brook Cottages
Rt. 2, Box 301, Sylva, NC
Phone 704/586-4329