Editor -
The Davidsonian

Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036

TO THE EDITOR:

The girls of Carnegie Basement, one of the nicer on-campus dorms, have some complaints which, although a bit frivolous, are
very justified.

The first complaint is that we still have not received a vacuum cleaner or a television set. Now we realize
that our purpose at Davidson College is not to vacuum our carpets and watch TV, but we do pay the
same tuition as everyone else at Davidson College and do not reap the same benefits. Is it the students’ responsibility
to supply these items, especially in an on-campus dormitory?

Another complaint is that one room requested a ladder for their loft and closet doors for their closets. One poor
girl has to spend so much time trying to figure out how to get into her loft, while at the
same time keeping moths, which by the way are extraordinarily attracted to the excessive brightness of her clothes, out of
the closet that she barely has time to study.

Another big problem with our dorm is that we get no announcements or news about campus. For example, a number
of us went to vote on Wednesday only to find that we couldn’t. As an on-campus dorm, are we allowed
to elect a senator to represent us, or do we vote with another dorm? These are the kinds of things
that we need determined.

These requests do not seem outrageous, but we do not know which channels to work through. All we really want
is to feel that we are part of the Davidson campus, not just stuck in limbo between on and off
campus housing. Where do we turn now?

Carnegie Basement

This letter was written in response to the “Bargmann - Christensen in ’84” posters that appeared on campus this week.

To the Editor:

I am writing this letter in order to make it perfectly clear to the college community that I have nothing
to do with Bargmann, nor with his candidacy for President. I was an unwilling and unknowing victim of a plot
to discredit Bargmann, but (in my opinion, anyway) I was the one suffering the greater discredit.

I do not know Mr. Bargmann, but judging by reputation alone, I rather doubt he is a Libertarian. Though I
realize that the “campaign” was all in fun, in the future I would appreciate it if someone would check with
me before using my name for such purposes. The whole thing was mildly amusing, as long as no one seriously
associates libertarianism with Mr. Bargmann’s brand of conservatism.

Actually the worst thing about the whole matter was that my name was constantly misspelled. I hope the Davidsonian does
not make the same mistake.

J. Erik Christensen

This letter was written in response to Housing Director Bill Bolding’s decision to require students who live in perimeter housing
to remove unsightly furniture from their porches. In a note to the students, Mr. Bolding referred to the housing as
looking like a “slum.”

To the editor:

He was an average college student, willing to compromise, short of the quality of his education. Humbly he accepted substandard
housing, after all “slum” is just a frame of mind. He slept on the floor so that his only sofa,
worn and tattered as it was, could serve a higher purpose, that of a resting place for students, friends, and
community members to share and enjoy each others’ company on the porch. He knew that his slum could be a
happy slum. As a sofa’s worth is not bound by its upholstery, neither is “neighborhood” defined in terms of appearance.
Tragically, this hopeful effort ends as the evil slum-lord removes the tattered and torn sofa to improve appearances. Need this
slum be an unhappy slum? Need the slum-lord be “permanent?” Send your response to the Housing Office.

S. (Kid) Row

To the editor:

About that advertisement depicting the white readers of the Davidsonian on page three of last week’s issue. Was it designed
to expand or limit circulation?

Minorities read the Davidsonian, too. What’s in it for us?

Concerned student

---

Georgia MBA Program

An admissions representative from the University of Georgia Graduate School of Business Administration will be on campus Thursday 22 October
1981 to meet with students interested in the MBA Program.

Contact the Careers Office (in the basement of the Union) for more details and to sign up for an information
session.

---

Gourmet Kitchen

NOW OPEN

Draft Beer Specials for students ANYTIME!

6 packs and cases to go at reasonable prices. 25 BRANDS!

Submarine Sandwiches (Under New Management)

Specializing in NY Pizza’s!

1 block from Davidson College, next to Lowe’s Foods

Call us now for take-out orders... 892-3095

FREE delivery to campus ANYTIME—FREE!
40¢ draft ANYTIME!

Kegs available

---

page 3 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981
