College military science courses are courses in leadership development. You learn techniques involved in the management of resources, techniques that are applicable to any management job. Another important leadership characteristic is interpersonal relationships. Things are accomplished by people, and the kind of relationship established goes a long way in determining your success as a leader, whether you intend to be a manager in a military or civilian career. Army ROTC can give you a competitive edge.

Don’t wait until after college to get practical management experience. Add leadership to your class schedule now.

ARMY ROTC
LEARN WHAT IT TAKES TO LEAD

For More Information Contact:
CPT Al Brauer
ROTC Dept.

6:00 — 8:00

Objectivism

As an advocate of egoism and capitalism, seek to reach the men of the intellect.

Available on request.
Box 3046
892-8171

8:00 am — 1:30 pm

WDAV. Boccherini: String Quintet No. 5 in E Major, Op. 13. Schumann: Sonata No. 1 in F-sharp minor, Op. 11. Sor: Sonata in C, Op. 25, the Grand Sonata. Albinoni: Concerto No. 10 in F Major for Violin and Chamber Orchestra.

8:00 pm WDAV. The Philadelphia Orchestra. Dutoit conducts music by Manuel de Falla: Three Dances from the ballet, “The Three Cornered Hat;” Mendelssohn’s Concerto in E minor for Violin and Orchestra, Op. 64 with violin soloist Kyung-Wha Chung; and the Symphony No. 4 in F minor, Op. 36 by Tchaikovsky.

8:00 & 10:30 pm Love Auditorium
Pop Film: Airplane. The 1980 hit movie. It’s not your ordinary “airplane tragedy” film. See Nick’s Flicks.

10:00 & 11:30 pm 900 Room. Joe Smothers and Jack Lawrence. Bluegrass guitarists. Joe Smothers, slick fingerpicker and master of the human voice, has long delighted audiences with his renditions of soulful ballads, blues songs, and traditional tunes. His writing ability and droll humor are key factors in the creative force behind this duet’s excellent sound. As an autoharpist, he adds yet another dimension to the musical prowess of the pair. Jack Lawrence has been heralded as one of the finest flat pickers playing today. From fiddle tunes and blues to early swing, Jack amazes crowds wherever he plays.

Senate Room. Mexican masks and belts exhibition. A small part of UNC anthropologist Marion Edinger’s collection of Mexican masks and belts, this exhibit reflects a strange blend of ancient canoe rites.

Dental Admission Test (DAT) and Law School Admission Test (LSAT). Good luck.

1:30 pm
Football at Bucknell. Head Coach Ed Farrell says, “the two-week layoff will help address inconsistencies — the team’s main problem.” He expects it to be a difficult game.

2:00 pm Soccer match with Washington and Lee. Home Game. Come out and watch these guys. They're looking good.

3:00 pm Men’s cross country: Appalachian and Women’s cross country: Furman. Both at home.

5:00 — 8:00 pm WDAV. Schumann: Fantasiestücke, Op. 12. Strauss: Horn Concerto No. 2 in E-flat Major. Handel: Suite for the Royal Fireworks. Fauré: Sonata in A Major for Violin and Piano, Op. 13. Reger: Wind Serenade in D minor, Op. 44.

8:00 pm WDAV. The Boston Pops, Assistant conductor Harry Ellis Dickson directs Tchaikovsky's Coronation March; Bach's Fugue a la Gigue, arr. Holst; Albinoni’s Adagio for Organ and Strings with organist; Wagner’s prelude to Die Meistersinger; and the Concerto for Trumpet and Orchestra by Joseph Haydn, with trumpet soloist.

10:00 pm WDAV. Jazz with Bill Bambach. “Commercialism and Innovation” (part 4). In tonight's program, music by some of the innovators and popular artists.