May 1, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

DC runners enter races for enjoyment
By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Running can be both intensely individual and a fiercely competitive sport. Competition is generally stiff on the intercollegiate level, but
some Davidson runners have found it rewarding to participate in less competitive events in the running community at large. Marian
Hill, Jeff Hamilton, Randy McManus, Howard Browne, Garry Sullivan, and Fred Broadwell are among the Davidson students who race in
varied running clubs and events across the state and nation.

Marian Hill, a sophomore from Des Moines, Iowa, prefers to run road races at the 10 kilometer (6.2 miles) distance.
On April 24, she won her age division in the 10K Statesville Dogwood Festival Race. After that race, Hill accepted
an invitation to compete for the Charlotte-based American Athletes Club in future races. The club will provide shoes, race fees,
and transportation for Hill to participate in road races during the off-season, when she is not competing for the Davidson
track and cross-country teams.

“I really enjoy getting out to the road races and running with people,” Hill said. “The races aren’t that competitive.
It’s really fun to be out running with all types of people.”

Junior Jeff Hamilton, a native of Little Rock, Arkansas, said he enjoys participating in longer distance road races like half-marathons
(13 miles). Road races help keep his concentration and motivation in training. “After a few weeks you have got to
have a race to keep in touch with your own running. You've got to find out what you can do.”

Randy McManus, a junior from Beaufort, South Carolina, participates in both the Savannah Striders and the Charlotte Track teams. Membership
in these clubs is by application and a qualifying race. McManus said a running club’s main function is to finance
its members’ running, but the clubs also sponsor optional meetings and track meets. McManus runs the 5K and 10K events.

Junior Howard Browne, another 5K and 10K competitor, runs for the Charlotte and Atlanta Track clubs. Browne said the clubs
offer information about current running events and provide a sense of camaraderie and team spirit.

Sophomore Garry Sullivan said he prefers road races to other types of competition. “I don’t like the track—going around in
circles. And too, I prefer to train my own way—where on a team, I’d have to be running for a
coach and training his way.” Sullivan is running road races in preparation for the New York Marathon in October.

“Being out at the road races is sort of like an adventure,” sophomore Fred Broadwell said. “A lot of them
are associated with festivals, so you get to run with all kinds of people in front of bigger crowds.” Broadwell
said his main goal in the races is to lower his own personal time.

All of the Davidson runners expressed the feeling that road races are less competitive than intercollegiate sports. Most see the
races and clubs as good alternatives to off-season training without competition. Road races are less competitive than intercollegiate sports, the
athletes agreed. But they provide a chance to run for off-season training or for sheer enjoyment.

By SCOTT BEAVER
Staff WriterDavidson men’s tennis team finished its season at 22-6 and came in third place in the Southern Conference tournament
last week. It was the third-best season in Coach Jeff Frank’s Davidson career. Frank said he was very satisfied with
the Wildcat effort. “I’m real pleased with our performance in the tournament. This tournament was one of the two or
three best ever in the Southern Conference, and I’ve got to be pleased with where we finished.”

The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga won this year’s Southern Conference title. Frank said UT-C and Furman fielded outstanding teams,
as did Appalachian State and the Citadel, two teams Davidson beat in the tournament.

Senior Nicholas Petrou won the number six singles category for the Wildcats. “Nick had a tough year,” said Frank. “He
missed a lot of matches because of illness and classes, but he came through in the tournament.” Petrou defeated the
number one seed in the semifinals and won the finals against a player who had beaten him earlier in the
season.

Frank said the Wildcat success this year was a direct result of hard individual and team work. “It’s hard to
talk about a single person when you discuss this team’s success.” Five of the Wildcats finished with wins in 20
or more matches this year. Frank cited the senior members of the team for their teamwork. “Jay (Gepfert), Rick Johnston,
and Nicholas (Petrou) gave us just a great deal of leadership.” He added that junior Nevins Todd is “one of
the finest players in the conference, and as every coach and player in this conference will tell you, you won’t
find a tougher competitor anywhere.”

Freshman Mark Nottingham also contributed much to the Wildcat effort this season, according to Frank. Nottingham “started higher than any
freshman ever started for a Davidson team, and did a super job,” he said.

Wildcat netters finish 22-6, third in SC tournament

The rites of spring include flights of frisbees. If you have a $10,000 job waiting for you, you could have
an American Express® Card right now. Trade the card you've been using every day for the Card you'll be using
the rest of your life. You're about to leave school and enter a whole new world. You've got great expectations.
So does American Express. For you. That’s why American Express has created a special plan that reduces the usual application
requirements - so you can get the Card before you finish school. All you need to apply is a $10,000
job or the promise of one. You'll use the Card the wealthy and the well-traveled use for business lunches, buying
clothes for work, paying for vacations - for all sorts of after-school activities. One of the surest ways to establish
yourself is to start out as if you were already established. And just having the Card gives you the chance
to establish a solid credit rating. So trade up now. You'll find application forms on campus bulletin boards. Or call
toll-free 800-528-8000 and ask for a Special Student Application. And set yourself up for next year before you finish this
one. The American Express® Card. Don’t leave without it.
