6 The Davidsonian—January 23, 1981

Wildcats suffer conference defeat, fall from first

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Almost anyone could see it coming. Last Monday it took the basketball team an overtime period to nip a less-than-average Appalachian squad 73-70. Then, Saturday night, they squeaked by Furman, 73-72, on a Paladin mistake that cost the visitors an overtime period. Then, Monday night, it happened — Western Carolina avenged its earlier loss at Davidson by beating the Cats 82-78 at Cullowhee.

As the Charlotte Coliseum filled Saturday night, much of the talk concerned whether Eddie Biedenbach’s Cinderella team had it within them to break the jinx. Furman has seemingly forever dominated Davidson. The Paladins played well, but as is becoming more and more apparent, Southern Conference officials are in the midst of a continuing quest for the sports Golden Fleece Award.

Neither team was exactly begging for the win. As Davidson, the best foul shooters in the nation, went 9-16 from the line, it was a minor miracle that the Cats held a 35-32 halftime lead. No one had taken charge in the first half; even sharpshooter Todd Haynes was off. Richie DiBenedetto, who ended up with 20 points for the game, dominated the first 5 minutes of the second half as he scored eight points that included a jam. The Wildcats blew a pair of chances to break the game open with 15 minutes left. At about that time the officials took it upon themselves to blow a call, and then in an unheard-of maneuver, reversed it.

Jamie Hall with a steal and Cliff Tribus with a blocked shot each made key defensive plays, but the offense could not capitalize at the charity stripe from the floor. The Furman offense got a little stifled and was forced to call a time out with 4:36 left when they were down seven points. The Paladins came out of the huddle fouling. Luckily Haynes, John Gullickson, and John Carroll hit some key stretch free throws. Furman cut the gap to 3 at 73-70, and with thirty seconds left the Wildcats were content to stall. With five seconds showing on the clock, Paladin Randy Butler stole the ball and took a layup to cut the lead to one as time ran out. But hold it! Shouldn’t he have pulled up and tried a 3-pointer? Well, he made a mistake, and the team that wins usually makes the fewest mistakes.

That’s exactly what happened when Davidson traveled to Western Carolina. “They played error-free ball,” said Biedenbach of the Catamounts. After all, it isn’t too often that a team commits only seven turnovers, as the Catamounts did Monday night. Once again the officials, with the Golden Fleece in their eyes, muffed a lot of calls in what Biedenbach called “a poorly officiated game.” What many viewers considered an erroneous call occurred with about a minute and a half left. Davidson had just cut the lead back to two points, and Western Carolina was inbounding the ball. As the Catamount player ran up the baseline looking for an open teammate, he dribbled the ball. Something about the dribble looked very wrong to a lot of people, especially Biedenbach, who proceeded to play the game under protest. After all was said and done, the player didn’t break any rules, not that it would have made a difference if he had. At any rate, Davidson lost a game that Biedenbach said “we should have won. Western Carolina is an excellent team, but I think we're better.”

Last night, the team won a game against VMI. They couldn’t afford a letdown. Although VMI is not exactly talent-laden, they are a very patterned team that rarely takes a low percentage shot. Last year Davidson split with the Keydets — a one-point win at Lexington and a one-point loss here.

Ahead on the schedule is South Carolina this Saturday. Former Duke coach Bill Foster has piloted a Gamecock squad with four walk-ons to a recent upset win at Marquette. On the line is a little bit of pride for the Davidson team. While at Duke, Foster...

Wildcat wrestlers win on the road

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson wrestlers beat Furman 31-22 on the road last week and traveled to the tough Citadel Bulldog Tournament Saturday in Charleston. The victory over Furman brought the team’s dual season record to 2-1. Individually, Van Wagner (wrestling in the 150-pound weight class), Tim Brotherton (167 pounds), and Svend Pedersen (heavyweight) all pinned...Their Furman opponents, Junior Scott Smith (134 pounds) won by major decision, freshman John Breidenstine (158 pounds) won by decision, and Chris Tiernan (177 pounds) won by forfeit. Davidson lost in the 118, 126, 142, and 190 weight classes.

In the weekend tournament at Citadel, Davidson faced VMI, Duke, The Citadel, Georgia Tech, Pembroke State, Washington & Lee, and Catawba. Scott Smith continued his winning ways as he took third place in the tournament in the 134-pound class. Smith, 3-1 for the tournament, won his last three matches by decision, including the last against VMI’s Eherenberger, who had earlier pinned him for his only loss.

Freshman standout John Breidenstine took fourth place in the tournament in the 150-pound class with two wins and two losses, all by decision. Lance Stokes (142 pounds) and Eric Reintsema (167 pounds) each won one match during the tournament. Coach Bob Estock stated, “I am very pleased with our progress up to this point in the season. We’re a young team, but we’re really progressing very well.” Estock takes great pride in the individual determination of the wrestlers.

Injuries have slowed several wrestlers this week. Eric Hill (118 pounds) missed the Citadel Tournament with a knee injury. Van Wagner (142 pounds), whom Estock describes as an athlete “who could have a bright future in the Southern Conference as a wrestler,” missed the tournament because of an injured back. Wagner is currently 5-1 in the season.

The Wildcats faced Campbell, VMI, and The Citadel last night. Results were not available at press time. The next match is at the Washington & Lee Tournament on Saturday.

Davidson 79 VMI 63

Once kept his starters on the floor and applied a press to run up a 50-plus point margin of victory over a hapless Wildcat. Next on the Conference schedule, the team visits the Citadel. Although the Western Carolina loss dropped the Cats from first place in the Conference, the team is still in a good position. Individually, Haynes and DiBenedetto have excelled, each winning Southern Conference Player of the Week honors in the last two weeks. Biedenbach foresees the possibility of two teams with four losses apiece finishing in a tie for first. The biggest obstacle in Davidson’s path is statistical, in that only 20% of the Southern Conference’s wins have come on the road, and although so far Davidson has beaten that percentage with 33%, there are still a lot of roads to be traveled, and therefore a long way to the top.

Freshman John Gullickson drives on Furman Guard Mel Daniel. (Mike Kehs)

Frankhouser leads Lady Wildcats to victory over Belmont Abbey

By DEBBIE CARLTON
Staff Writer

The Women’s basketball team kept the momentum from good play against UNC-G to win their first game of the season last Wednesday, beating Belmont Abbey 69-60. Mike Frankhouser was the team’s high scorer with 26 points, followed by captain Kirby Owen with 22. The Lady Wildcats outshot and outrebounded their opponents despite 24 turnovers. The Belmont Abbey win was particularly impressive since the Belles had defeated the Cats by over 20 points earlier in the season.

The team played two other games this week but neither contained the good play of the Belmont Abbey game. Bennett College overwhelmed the Cats, 60-44. Turnovers were largely responsible for the 16-point deficit, with a total of 27 to Bennett’s 17. Bennett’s aggressive players intimidated the Lady Cats and capitalized on Davidson's mistakes. Frankhouser’s 20 points, coupled with Owen's 14, just couldn’t overcome a strong Bennett team. Even a 62% showing at the free-throw line could not bring the team a win.

The second loss was to a hustling Converse team who regained the lead in the last minutes to win, 56-51. Even though shooting percentages were low, the Cats stayed close and even overcame a 10-point disadvantage to be ahead by 3 during the second half. Several bad calls and careless mistakes tied up the game, with the South Carolina referees living up to their reputation for controversial calls, and eventually Converse was in the lead for good.

The women’s team has improved in a number of ways but still is unable to win most of the games. There must be improvement in turnovers and shooting percentages from the floor if the Cats are going to snap back for the second half of the season. Hard work and determination are on their side. The record is currently 1-8 but there are plenty of games left.