8—The Davidsonian—January 23, 1981

Orton’s What the Butler Saw brings comedy to studio workshop

By TIM BETUEN
Staff Writer

The playbill says Joe Orton’s What The Butler Saw is “A hilarious and outrageous farce for a mature and sophisticated audience.” The play deals with “a wild melee of disappearances, disguises, and discoveries” when a state inspector visits a mental hospital. Davidson’s Drama department is presenting What the Butler Saw this week.

“This play has a very complex plot,” Drama Professor Rupert Barber said. “There are all sorts of changes in costumes and identities. It is not a particularly racy play, but it is a sophisticated one in that it deals with issues from homosexuality to necrophilia.”

Barber chose this play because he believes it to be the best of Orton’s three plays (the other two are Entertaining Mr. Sloane and Loot). Orton was killed at the age of 36 by his lover. Had he lived and kept writing, Barber believes he might have been the modern Oscar Wilde because of his use of wit and verbal play.

“I wanted to do this play because it is a type of comedy not commonly done here, for the experience of it, and also to expose students and audiences to Orton,” Barber said.

The cast has had only a few problems with the play. The flu outbreak last week cut into rehearsal time, and “sometimes the lines have been difficult because the action is wild and constant,” Barber said. “Also the constant changing of costumes made it difficult to remember the right characters in rehearsal.”

The cast is comprised of four seniors—James Baskin, Peter Collins, Nelson Simon, and Julie Weber; and two freshmen—George Booth and Margaret Ervin.

“Those seniors are veterans on our stage,” Barber said, “George and Margaret are just marvelous.”

Ervin said she was “very surprised” to get the part of the secretary in the play. “The seniors did intimidate me at first, but not now. No one puts any pressure on me.” Ervin added that getting used to the undressing (cleverly called “costume changes”) has taken some work, especially since the effect is to be humorous and not merely bawdy.

“A lot of the humor of the play is in the word play, which is sometimes difficult,” Ervin said, “because it’s not just the words but the way you take the things that the characters say.”

Aside from working on timing and costume changes, Ervin said she has not had many problems with the play. “My part isn’t that hard, but the others are trying out things and getting comfortable with the flow of the play.”

The situation of the play is important, Ervin said. “All these characters are so wrapped up with themselves that they do not intend to make light of their situation. I laugh at these characters a lot. I have to stop doing that.”

Ervin said her character is a “naive girl, reared in a strict home.” She does not realize she is being seduced by the psychiatrist to whom she is applying for a secretarial job. He gets her out of her clothes, but then another psychiatrist shows up and thinks she is a patient. Then “everything starts to go crazy,” Ervin said.

“I have enjoyed working in this play because I think it is a good play,” Ervin said, “and because the cast is fun. We have a good time together.”

Baskin, who plays the psychiatrist, has just come from playing Mr. Gant in the Fall production of Look Homeward, Angel. “In this play the girls are a problem,” Baskin quipped. “I have enjoyed this play more than any of the others I’ve done.”“Others,” he said, “It’s amazingly funny! The play gets funnier every time we do it, at least to me it does.” Baskin quickly added that the play had not been easy. “All rehearsals are happy and frustrating to me. This show requires me to keep in character for an hour and a half, which is something I have never done before.” 

“I think a lot more students should try out. I tried out because I’m a drama junkie,” Baskin said. Tickets for "What the Butler Saw" are on sale at the Cunningham box office, $2.00 for adults and $1.50 for students. Performances are 7 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 22, and 7 and 9:30 p.m. Friday, Jan. 23. All shows will be in the workshop behind Hodson Hall.

### College bowlers prepare for tournament
By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

This team practices with trivia books, not a basketball. Team members don’t run laps, but they go through two to three hundred questions in a single two-hour practice session. Instead of training with weights, they read books, magazines, and newspapers. This is College Bowl, sometimes called the “varsity sport of the mind.”

College Bowl has been a winning sport at Davidson since the late 1960s. Davidson’s 1969 College Bowl A-Team won five games and $20,000 in scholarship funds on the popular “GE College Bowl” TV program, which ended in 1970. Davidson’s 1979 A-Team captured the National College Bowl Championship, winning $5000 in scholarships. On March 16, Davidson’s 1980 A-Team, ranked in the nation’s top 8 teams, will go to Charlotte to compete in the National College Bowl Championships.

According to Senior Tim Newcomb, A-team member for both 1979 and 1980, Davidson has a strong program. “I don’t know how we'll do in the nationals, but we’ll have a good time.” 

“College Bowl is a whole lot of fun, and a way to learn things you may never use again,” sophomore Brad Mullis, B-team captain, said. Newcomb said, “It gives me a chance to meet super people and to get to know them.... Fun: that’s the key word. If it weren’t fun, I wouldn’t do it.” When asked why he is willing to spend up to ten hours a week in practice, Newcomb said, “When we practice a lot, it’s because we enjoy it, not because we have to.”

Topics for questions can be anything, ranging from cooking to television to U.S. Presidents. Possible questions include “What are the main ingredients in Russian Dressing?”, “Who is the voice of Bugs Bunny?”, or “Which President’s middle name was Milhous?”

On Jan. 27 both the A-team and the B-team will compete in an exhibition tournament in Charlotte under the aegis of the Charlotte Area Educational Consortium. Both teams will then go to the UNC-Charlotte Invitationals, also an exhibition tournament, on Jan. 31. On Feb. 12, the A-team will travel to Johnson City, Tennessee to participate in the Region V Competition. On March 16th they will compete in the National College Bowl Championships to be held in Charlotte.

German Professor Hansford Epes coaches both the A-team and the B-team. Epes, Physics Professor Bob Manning, and English Professor Emeritus Charles Lloyd, the former coach, work closely together preparing the team for the national competition. A-team member Julie Gibert said Professor Epes is an exceptionally good coach who devotes a great deal of time to the teams. He goes on every trip with them. “He calms us when we get temperamental and upset before a match,” Gibert said. “Getting to call him ‘Hansford’ is one of the privileges of being on the team,” added Mullis.

Members of the A-Team are Newcomb, Gibert, Ed Trumbull, Bob Evans, and alternate Marvin Overby. B-team members are Mullis, Gordon Turnbull, John Eglin, and Richard Page.