| war strategy. So far he has ignored the "hopes and" demands "of African condemnation of Africa." hope in the outcome of negotiations. 

South African relations in terms of economic interests and cold calculations and therefore remain open. Reagan feels that in embracing much for Namibian independence that he has done his part for black Africa. Secretary of State Haig said on 14 November that "There is a basis for increasing optimism that Namibia will be independent in this coming year." If a settlement is forthcoming, the United States could either fall back on its sole African ally and further embrace the South African government, or it could proceed. The United States "will at best," according to John de St. Jorre, "have lost all basis for communication with the states of black Africa on the single crucial political issue for that continent; and at worst be identified with South Africa and its racial policies."

President Reagan’s South African policy seems to be at a standstill. The White House has pronounced very little new policy since last spring and has not commented on the Rockefeller Foundation’s proposals. The proposals include applying economic pressure on the United States corporations currently dealing with South Africa, full implementation of the United States sponsored arms embargo, and increased aid to black Africa. The Reagan administration must soon decide whether to continue to depend on the South African government for reform, or to take a more active role in bringing an end to apartheid.

"Africa will only be truly free when Namibia and South Africa also regain their freedom. If it were not for the intransigence of the South African government, Namibia would already be free. But Namibia shall be free, sooner rather than later. Similarly, apartheid must go. Human dignity must be restored to the oppressed majority in South Africa." 
- Kenyan President D. Arap Moi, July 1981

With the advent of the man from Hollywood to the Oval Office, Africa’s hopes and aspirations for a free Africa — an Africa freed of the yoke of colonial oppression, of the terrors of white domination, of unholy alliances — seem to be inexorably slipping away. Every black man, a human being as qualified as any other, was born in the light. The new South Africa policy of the Reagan administration is one radically different from that of the Carter regime, and one that has caused much concern to Africa. So much furor has the policy aroused that it has overshadowed events on the continent. 

Black Africans, Mahmoud Sayani among them, seem to cloud their thinking and reduce their concern for humanity. Africa cannot be used only as another move towards checkmate over the Soviets. The people — the human beings and the rights due to them — must be taken into account before making brash policies and rash moves. To be sure, South Africa is strategically important and alliance with it would boost the U.S. Cold War position in southern Africa, and of course, there is the supply of minerals — gold and diamonds — and economic links with South Africa.to consider. But are the people not more important? But then, Reagan does not seem to know what the situation in South Africa really is: he has been reported to say, “The problem in South Africa is not racial, but tribal.” Of course, he is grossly misinformed and sadly unaware of the atrocities carried out daily in South Africa. 

What is the position of the black African in South Africa? He is denied choice in political association, the right to vote, to choose by whom he shall be represented, the right to make the laws under which he and his countrymen live. He is constrained in his right to hold meetings and processions. He is subject to arbitrary arrest and detention. South African laws permit indefinite detention of a black African, during which time he can be interrogated indefinitely and may even disappear (i.e., Steve Biko). He is denied freedom of expression and information. He is denied freedom of movement—the black African needs permission and a passbook to move from one place to another within his own country. And finally, the African does not have access to the same courts as the white man. He is forced to live in areas designated for blacks, which constitute only thirteen percent of the total land area of South Africa.

The terms that the U.S. best understands: economic embargoes. The U.S. depends on Nigeria for 16% of its oil and has a $12 billion trade deficit with Nigeria. If Nigeria and several other African states simultaneously applied economic pressure, the U.S. would definitely suffer a setback. Then, of course, there is the danger that Reagan might lose the very military supremacy in the Indian Ocean that he is striving for. The recent agreement with Kenya and Somalia to construct U.S. military bases at Berbera (Somalian seaport) and use of services at Mombasa (Kenyan seaport) by U.S. forces could be lost if the U.S. does not compromise.

What else can happen? In South Africa itself, instead of a peaceful transition to majority rule, there will be increased military activity. Black Africa will respond with more violent means to regain what rightfully belongs to its peoples. As Oliver Tambo, president of the African National Congress of South Africa, said in an African Report interview, “The wrath of the people is growing... we have warned that the people’s patience is not endless.” Other African states will definitely assist, as seen by President Moi’s appeal to African states this summer.

Black Africans do not regard themselves as fancy pawns in Cold War chess. They have become players in their own right. They ask that neither their friendship nor their hostility be taken for granted (New York Times, 8/22/81). Africa must be free. Its people must be allowed to live like human beings. Apartheid—that shedder of blood, that divider of mankind into the oppressive divisions of black and white, that snatcher of the child from the weeping widow, that cause of endless rivers of tears, that cause of anguish and grief, that bringer of injury, torture, and death to the black man, that creation of the Devil himself—apartheid must go. Africa must be free.

Finally, a message from Oliver Tambo: “We would like to see the American people reject the positions taken by the Reagan administration of dragging the U.S. into an ill-conceived and disastrous alliance with the racist régime of Pretoria. This is a principle challenge that confronts all right-thinking Americans.”

Mahmoud Sayani is a sophomore majoring in Political Science from Nairobi, Kenya.