Campus Events

Thursday, April 9

The Back Page

8 pm New Reflections Dance Company, $1.00 900 Room

Friday, April 10

2-6 pm Robbin Thompson Band Concert Baseball Field with Projections. Fun in the sun—or in the gym if it rains.

5-6:30 Bar-B-Q dinner. Mealcard holders free, others should buy tickets at Union box office for $2.50. Baseball Field

9:30 Pervis Lee, guitarist. Free. 900 Room

Saturday, April 11

1 pm Fancy Footwork Obstacle Course. A fun run on a unique course—Failure as a jock is no obstacle! Front
of Chambers

2 pm Spoons: 25 cents! Then eat all you can from the great 75-foot banana split! Front of Chambers

2:30 Locomotion Vaudeville: a New England group performs acrobatics, mime, and comedy; free. Front of Chambers

9 pm - 1 am Semi-formal dance with the N.C. School of the Arts Jazz Band. Tickets are $2.50 at
the Union Box office, $3.50 at the door. Gallery

9:30 Pervis Lee, guitarist. Free. 900 Room

12:30 - 2:30 La Crepe, enjoy a relaxing crepe breakfast after the dance—dates aren’t a necessity for a good time
here! $4.00 per couple; $2.50 per person. ATO

1 am Join the Union in A French Evening on the Riviera with quiche, chocolate eclairs, fruit salad, cafe au
lait. Tickets are $2.00. 900 Room

Sunday, April 12

9 pm Informal Bridge Games. 900 Room

Monday, April 13

3 pm Dr. Joseph English, Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow: “Was the Poverty Program a Failure?” Morrison Room

9 pm Vesper Concert: David Lowry, professor of Music at Winthrop College, presents organ pieces by Bach, Barber, and Franck.
DCPC

Tuesday, April 14

6 pm Sign-up dinner with Dr. Joseph English. Conference

7:30 Dr. English discusses “What will Reagan’s Policy Mean for the Less-than-Affluent?” Morrison Room

Wednesday, April 15

10 am Coffee and Cokes. Gallery

10 am Easter Egg Hunt for Elementary School Children. Be a kid again—forget chem lab! Refreshments will be served on
the Union Patio. Front of Chambers

12:30 Open Luncheon: Dr. Joseph English: “Can You Make a Living in the Liberal Arts?” 900 Room

4:30 Dr. English: “The Kennedy Years” Union Patio

8 pm Fine Film: In the Heat of the Night. $1.50 or season pass. Love

Thursday, April 16

3 pm Dr. Joseph English: “Whatever Happened to the Peace Corps?” Morrison Room

9 pm Band Party. PAX

10 pm Disco. 900 Room

Friday, April 17

8 pm; 10:30 Pop Film: Foul Play. Love

9:30 Rich Kirby and Tom Bledsoe play bluegrass music; free. 900 Room

Saturday, April 18

9:30 Rich Kirby and Tom Bledsoe; free. 900 Room

Sunday, April 19

Wednesday, April 22

10 am Coffee and Cokes. Gallery

Be a lifesaver! Give to the ROTC Blood Drive and help reach the 300-pint target. Prizes go to the Eating
House or Freshman Hall with the highest percentage of participation and to the most generous department. Union

8 pm Fine Film: The Hustler. Love

8:15 Student Organ Recital: Neal Biggers. DCPC

Robbin Thompson to rock

“If there’s any justice in the world Robbin Thompson... should vault into the national spotlight,” said Dan Kening about the
Robbin Thompson Band upon the release of their popular Two B’s Please album last spring. Since then, the album has
sold over 90,000 copies and the band’s fame has spread across the nation.

After performing with Bruce Springsteen’s Steel Mill Band in the early 70’s, Robbin Thompson gained attention when he won two
awards at the American Spring Festival for his ballad “Boy From Boston.” The band formed in 1978. It includes Thompson;
Velpo Robertson, lead guitar; Eric Heiberg, keyboard; Michael Lanning, bass; and Bob (Rico the Fox) Antonelli. They have played warm-ups
for big-name bands such as Pat Benatar and Molly Hatchet.

Their popular hits include "Sweet Virginia Breeze,” “All Alone in the End Zone,” “Take me Away,” and “Bright Eyes.”

The band will be playing next to the baseball field on Friday from 2 to 6 pm. A Bar-B-Q dinner
will accompany them 5-6:30. The concert is free; dinner is free for mealcard holders and $2.50 in advance for all
others.

New Reflections Dance Co. in 900 Room

The New Reflections Dance Company of Charlotte will be performing in the 900 Room tonight at 8.

The Modern Dance program consists of 4 parts: “I am,” “Rhapsody,” “Escape,” and “Lord’s Prayer.” It includes music of Pink
Floyd. Admission is $1.00. There will be a coffee in the Morrison Room following the performance.

Speaker will address the presidency, the Peace Corps

Dr. Joseph T. English, director of the psychiatric department of New York’s St. Vincent’s Hospital, will speak next week at
Davidson as a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow.

Dr. English’s long list of accomplishments includes posts as director of the Health Services Administration, assistant director of the Office
for Economic Opportunity in the Executive Office of the President, and chief psychiatrist of the U.S. Peace Corps. He was
named “One of the Ten Outstanding Young Men in the Federal Services.”

As well as presenting five intriguing public lectures, Dr. English will also be in the Conversation Pit to discuss issues
informally with students. Check the calendar for further details.

Be sure to see Loco-Motion Saturday at 2:30 on the Chambers Lawn.

Loco-Motion Vaudeville, an exceptional theatrical production featuring circus artistry, acrobatics, and comedy, will delight Spring Frolics crowds on Chambers lawn
Saturday at 2:30.

Members of the versatile four-man team—Bounce, Flip, Cyrus, and Jan—will also juggle flaming torches, escape from a straight jacket, and
present a unicycle ballet.

Loco-Motion was featured in ABC’s Saturday Night Special from the Montreal Olympics. They have been instructors for Barnum and Bailey’s
Clown College and were invited to perform in Saudi Arabia as guests of ARAMCO Oil Co.

Don’t miss this chance to see a truly amazing group. Prior to the performance is the Fancy Footwork Race and
the consumption of the 75-foot banana split!

Edited by Ivy Goodman
