10—The Davidsonian—February 13, 1981

In veritate magna VIS

This week we've decided to drop the infamous coed issue as female protests have gone beyond all reason. One of
the first responses was a rather classy attempt to put the SAE’s on the run by ex-laxing them at lunch
before their Queens mixer. John Butler said the treatment cost him at least two notches on his bedpost. Protests continued
as three coeds went to the FBI, two to the Cornelius police department, and one to Grover Meetze. Meetze said,
“Put in a work order and we’ll take care of it in two weeks.”

Things really got bad when irate women pushed a defenseless Rich DiBenedetto out of a 900 Room window, costing the
Cats a sure road win at UT-Chattanooga. Bigoted coeds lynched football stud Kevin Hanna with a pink column. Lisa Olsen
was spotted leading a troop of Vinson House residents armed with submachine guns down the street to put Harding House
under siege. Fortunately, she was quickly informed that the culprits didn’t live there. She still shot out three windows. One
more realistic coed, while telling us that she was quite perturbed, admitted, “It really is all true.”

Even the professors got involved. The esteemed Dr. Arnie Palmer of the psychology department concluded after a lengthy study of
the Midwinters problem that many coeds suffered from a psychological malady he termed coedus interruptus. At any rate, we’re sorry
things got out of hand so we've sent Rusk three truckloads of cheesecake as a peace offering.

This week we are reinstating an old IMAC column tradition of presenting relevant lists of all those things which you
have always wanted to have listed. This idea was given to us by the slothful and indolent Charlie Slagle.

I. NCAA Ugly All-American teams
1. Kelly Tripucka (Notre Dame)
2. Dmitri Kluckowski (VMI)
3. Rich Dibenedetto (Supersonics)
4. Art Jones (N.C. State)
5. Chris Dodds (Clemson)
Coach: Dean Smith

II. Three Best Number of Fingers to Have
1. Five
2. Three
3. Seven

III. Five Worst Places to Eat at Davidson
1. Slater
2. Gus’s Gourmet
3. Cashion’s Gulf
4. SAE
5. 3rd Cannon

IV. Best Deans at Davidson
1. Price Zimmermann
2. Dean Jones
3. John Dean
4. Maureen Dean
5. Lapple’s Mom

V. Five Best Emetics at Davidson
1. Bear eating
2. Cora’s used mouthwash
3. Slater liver marinated in Barry Cheatham’s tennis shoes
4. Ed Farrell
5. Underside of plumber’s friend

VI. Five Most Obnoxious People at Davidson
1. Frank Clark
2. Jack Hall
3. Brown Dennis
4. BB&DB
5. George Murrell

VII. Ten Davidson Institutions That Should Be Abolished
1. Pep Band
2. Cheerleaders
3. Pink and green stuff
4. Classes
5. Bear
6. The Weight Room & George Murrell
7. Road basketball games
8. Panty Lines
9. SPE
10. Editors

In our usual devious manner, we intercepted this letter en route from Bill Bolding to Will Terry.

Dear Will,
I regret to inform you that the new dormitories being built behind SAE and Phi Delt will not be able
to house any Davidson coeds in the foreseeable future. Due to an oversight on my part, none of the doorways
were built more than five feet wide.
— Bill Bolding

Vox populi: In feminis magna vis

Do it with finesse

To The Brick Bros. and The Doughboys:
Awright fellas, I've finally figured out how you manage to manufacture such massive quantities of pointed social commentary. There must
be two sets of you. I mean, there is no way one set of you could turn out so much
printed material each week. Something clued me in to this, right? Yeah...you’re quick! I think what led me to this
brilliant deduction was a slight discrepancy in your writing styles. A quick literary analysis will prove my point. Say we
call the two groups Doughboys I and Doughboys II for facility of discussion. Say, for instance, that Doughboys I wrote
the January 29 column on self-selection and that Doughboys II authored the February 6 article on mid-winter’s and coeds. I
know this may seem far-fetched, but I’ll continue. Takeoffs on the clean-cut, all-Americanness of the KA’s are as old as
your column. Let’s look at the Doughboys I January 29 takeoff: “Golly gee whiz, KA’s, what a swell buncha fellas.
Milk is a natural but don’t tell the KA’s how you got it from the cow!” This writing style is
characterized by its quick wittiness and innovation in making an age-old joke. If Doughboys II treated the same subject matter,
the result would probably be something like: “KA’s are a sterile bunch of guys. Girls, don’t bare your breasts to
a KA, he won't know what to do.” This literary style is characterized by little save crudity and blatant lack
of...wit. An excellent example of Doughboys II’s writing style may be found in the February 6 column on mid-winters and
Davidson coeds. As a Davidson coed, I don’t resent being the butt of a joke. But, boys, the next time
you do a takeoff, treat it with the finesse of Doughboys I.

Follin Smith ’81

Editor’s note: Ms. Smith is essentially correct. Two pairs of writers do alternate writing this column—as the title “The Brick
Brothers and The Doughboys” implies. In fact, the Brick Brothers wrote the Jan. 29 article, and the Doughboys wrote the
Feb. 6 article.

Our Advice To the Editors:

We, the Davidson coeds, would like to reply to the article by the Brick Brothers and the Doughboys concerning Big
Weekends. As in athletics, IMAC, and admissions, we know we will be given an “equal” opportunity to voice our opinions.
We realize that it was an oversight on their part, but the advice given to Davidson coeds about Big Weekends
was insufficient. Our advice to the coeds is as follows:

If your date is an SAE, make sure you can sing along with the Tams. Also, wear sunglasses—they protect your
eyes from his clothing. If he is a DCFer, be ready to go to every non-alcoholic Union activity. (Remember: you
don’t have to drink to have a good time.) If he is a freshman, don’t worry, prepubescents pose no threats.
If you go with a Phi Delt, make sure you wear something that you don’t mind getting blood on. Don’t
go with a SPE...because...well because he’s a SPE. Go out with a KA; at least the Southern gents keep their
hands in their own pants. If you go with a FIJI, bring some money; he only brings enough to pay
for his own meal. If you go with a NERD, bring a pillow because the seats in Chambers are the
only things that get hard on Saturday nights. And if you find out that your date is a Brickbrother or
a Doughboy, don’t worry, maybe you can still get a date with a SPE.

For the guys who want their important dates to stay in Cannon, sorry, our beds are all taken up. And
if we knew where the good-looking, normal guys on campus were, we would apologize to him. We believe the number
of good-looking guys at Davidson roughly parallels the number of white maids on campus.

Brickhouse and Easy Ryders

P.S. Thanks for renting the vans last weekend.

like this: “The KA’s are really a Prep (Continued from page 8)

You treat me and my friends in such odd ways. Why just last week my Ex Boyfriend (I hope he’s
reading this) at Davidson invited me up to a surprise birthday party for me. Maybe he is just unpopular but
none of his other guests or friends arrived. We sat in his room and waited and waited. Our first visitor
finally arrived at about one a.m. He knocked on the door and said his name was “Gopher Itt”. But my
boyfriend must not have known him ‘cause he locked the door and shouted, “Get lost!” Gosh...Where I came from we
are much more hospitable to guests, even strangers. About an hour later he asked me if I would like to
go parallel parking. I just don’t know about his intelligence. He knew perfectly well that I don’t have a car,
and his car, why it never starts after midnight. He ought to get it fixed ‘cause I’m sick of being
stranded at Davidson. If I didn’t know better, I’d swear he was trying to take advantage of me, but I
do! So I'll continue to go out with the Slug as long as he stops treating me like mud.

MISTY BRAINS ’84.

And now it’s time to present this week’s BPOC award to the Davidson student who best exemplifies the campus-wide interest
in “preppy”. By a unanimous decision, this prestigious award will be presented to KA pledge Fernando Garcia immediately following “Graham
crackers and milk” at the eating house on February 13th. Fernando was selected by THE PREPS for his immaculate application
of the T.D.C. (Total Design Concept) clothing. Fernando’s “natural fiber” blazer is the ultimate in preppy crusade wear. His blazer
is highlighted by 18 solid brass buttons distinctively monogrammed with his initials. The slacks are J-Press and the shirt is
from the Confederate Designer Collection at Bank’s. All in all, this clean-cut, hard-charging, hell-of-a-preppy can be expected to be a
top campus fashion leader in the coming years. Congratulations, Fernando!

Well preps and prepettes, that about wraps it up. Remember girls, this Saturday is Valentine’s Day—a perfect opportunity to don
those reds, especially those cute white Skyr turtlenecks with the little hearts on them.

We’re History.

THE PREPS
