DAVIDSONIAN Friday 18th September 1981

Basketball team loses three in term paper sham
by Steve Soud '84

The troubled Davidson basketball office was still reeling from its coaching changeovers last spring. Matters worsened as three players dropped out over the summer. Junior reserve forward John Corso and junior power forward Rich DiBenedetto left because of personal reasons. Freshman guard John Gullickson, staunchly denying an earlier honor conviction by the Honor Council and fighting it in the Mecklenburg County District Court, admitted buying a term paper and turning it in as his own work. Corso and DiBenedetto were allegedly involved in the term paper scandal as well.

Gullickson, presently attending night classes at Queens, will return to Davidson in the spring. “I just followed the wrong people, which is easy for a freshman to do,” the Southern Conference All-Freshman selection said. “I really think Davidson has a lot to offer, so I’m going to return. I’m really anxious to play for Coach Hussey,” he added.

Gullickson was one of the prime reasons the upstart Wildcats finished last season in a three-way tie for first place in the Southern Conference. The hot-shooting Illinois freshman, who hit over ninety percent from the free throw line and led the nation in that category going into the last two weeks of the season, came just three shots short of the number needed to qualify him as the leading foul shooter in the NCAA. He brought his version of riverboat gambling to the basketball court as he cheated the break quite successfully, hitting key layups and clutch 18-foot jump shots. Although first-year Coach Bobby Hussey plans on running a different style offense, Gullickson’s accurate shot will be sorely missed.

The Davidsonian reached Corso, who is attending St. Johns University in New York. Corso, who had earlier denied any connection with the scandal, refused to discuss the matter, saying, “It’s history... That was a long time ago.” Corso’s chief role on the team was coming off the bench, primarily in ball control situations.

Davidson’s only nationally-ranked team
by Jim Northrup '82

Field hockey, or any reputable sport, can only be enjoyed by knowing something of how the game is played. The following is a spectator’s introduction to this game. Field hockey originated as a men’s sport and is still commonly played by men in parts of the United States and in a variety of other countries. The team is composed of eleven players, including the goalkeeper, and a game lasts for two 35-minute periods. The game is in many respects similar to soccer, especially in the stamina necessary to play a winning game. The traditional women’s uniform includes a skirt, but that by no means makes it less difficult for the women to keep up the grueling soccer-like pace. The 5.5-ounce ball is moved with a one-sided stick. The right-hand side of a hockey stick is rounded and cannot be used to hit the ball, so field hockey dribbling is nothing like the back-and-forth dribbling motion of ice hockey. It is pulled and hit along the player’s right-hand side, with the player bent slightly over it. In order to move to the right, the stick is rotated 180 degrees in the player’s hand. This is called reverse sticks. Anyone who has watched the game is aware that field hockey is a game of frequent violations. Formerly, a player could not raise the stick above her shoulders. This year, however, the AIAW has done away with that rule in order to reduce the number of violations and add to the flow of the game.the game, thus making it attractive to spectators. Another frequent violation is advancing: Advancing occurs when a player lets his or her body, especially the feet or shoulders, be directly in the path of an opponent with the ball. As in soccer, field hockey also has a rule that all shots initiated within the shooting circle must be counted as a goal. Playing defense in the backfield are the sweepers. Directly in front of these players are the halves, the links, and finally the forwards. Each team uses its own formation, depending on the strengths and weaknesses of the members.

If you would like to take it as a P.E. course in the spring, DiBenedetto will finish his schooling at the University of Wisconsin at Eau Claire. The Davidsonian was unable to reach DiBenedetto himself, and his parents claimed that he refused any comment. DiBenedetto, who would have been a senior this year, led the team in almost all offensive categories across the last two seasons. In 1979-80, he averaged 20 points per game, and his 63% shooting accuracy was ranked sixth in the nation. Many people considered last season an “off” year for the talented New Jersey native, but when he was on, he was unstoppable and dominated several games.

Although all three players fit into the Biedenbach basketball scheme well, there were questions as to where they would fit into Hussey’s transition game. DiBenedetto and Gullickson were notoriously average on defense, Gullickson primarily because he was busy cheating the break and DiBenedetto apparently because of conflicts with ex-Coach Eddie Biedenbach. Corso does not intend to play for St. John’s, but DiBenedetto is slated to play for Eau Claire.

Field hockey gears up for fall. Another frequent violation is sledging when a player...

SIDELINE — GOAL LINE 60 Yds. LINE CENTRE 100 Yds.

by Jim Northrup ‘82

Davidson’s field hockey team scrimmaged twice in Boone this past Sunday, playing the doubleheader. The women downed Wake Forest, a Division I team, 2-1. In the first of the two 20-minute halves, Wake Forest went up 1-0, then Sophomore Hall (a returning left wing with three goals last season) tied the game up. Davidson Freshman Lou Hamilton scored the winning goal.

“We played pretty well for the first time out,” said hockey coach Dee Mayes. “We played on astroturf. That makes for faster passes, but also makes the ball hard to control.”

Appalachian, a Division I team, defeated Davidson 3-1 in the second scrimmage of the day, with Sophomore Marvin Martin scoring Davidson’s only goal. “We’re disappointed to lose any game, but they are Division I, and they’ve been in school practicing for three weeks already,” Coach Mayes explained. “Division I teams offer their players full scholarships. Most Division II teams, though not Davidson, offer partial scholarships.”

Generally, Davidson’s defense looks solid, but the loss of forward Carol Heppner to a knee injury has forced Coach Mayes to move defensive players into offensive positions. These changes, combined with a young team, mean that Davidson will have to rely more on skill than experience.

Davidson will scrimmage at home on Saturday morning at 9:00 against archrival Pfeiffer. The regular season begins on Tuesday at High Point and will continue on Thursday afternoon at 4:00 when Davidson hosts UNC Greensboro.