February 6, 1981—The Davidsonian—5

Pornography versus literature, church versus state — What price libertine?

Rob Campany '81

Several months ago Sheriff Robert Clendenen of Washington County, Virginia—my home county—received an anonymous letter informing him that pornographic literature was being sold in some local bookstores. Investigation led to the indictment of three county businessmen for selling Hustler, Dude, and other such publications. The initial trial, which ended in a hung jury, illustrated the confusion generated by the Supreme Court’s use of “community standards” for deciding which kinds of material fall outside the scope of the First Amendment.

During the trial, the defense attorney went to the public library of the county, checked out Harold Robbins’ *The Lonely Lady* and Sidney Sheldon’s *Bloodline*, and introduced them into the trial as evidence to prove that Abingdon’s “community standards” encompass the kind of literature the three businessmen were selling. This move aroused the pastor of the local Emmanuel Baptist Church, the Reverend Tom Williams—a man with Moral Majority connections (Jerry Falwell’s Lynchburg is only a couple of hours up the interstate)—from his dogmatic slumber. He went to the public library and determined that there is “no way to guess, or even to estimate” the pornographic profusion prevalent there—which probably means he couldn’t be bothered to count. On November 10, Williams even demanded the names of people who had checked out some books objectionable to him.

Meanwhile, Williams’ associate Bobby Sproles, who happened to be Chairman of the County Board of Supervisors, threatened to cut off funds for the library if it did not remove the offending books, all of which, as librarian Kathy Russell pointed out, had been requested by several regular patrons of the library who, of course, also pay taxes. Williams and Sproles interpret Virginia’s popular support for Reagan as a mandate for censorship. Pornography, Sproles told the Washington County News, goes against “the morals of the majority of people in the county;” Reagan’s Virginia success, coupled with the popularity of Jerry Falwell’s Moral Majority, “is a firm indication of the way people think throughout the state,” he said. Williams threatened that “in spite of the libertines, the absolute will prevail.” The so-called libertines “must realize they can’t impede the change. All they can do is to be run over.”

Fortunately, however, the majority of Washington County citizens do not seem to favor such demagoguery. The local Kiwanis Club has published a stinging rebuke of Sproles and Williams and an endorsement of the library; fifteen other civic clubs and the local ministerial association have concurred. The vast majority of letters to the Washington County News and to other local newspapers have sharply criticized Sproles and Williams. Most promisingly, a League of County Voters has been formed to counter the politics of Sproles and Williams and to investigate charges of maladministration of county funds by the Board of Supervisors. This League may prove necessary to protect citizens’ liberty, since Williams has threatened to put up an “anti-pornographic” slate of candidates for county executive offices if the offending books are not out of the library by fall.

At any rate, this controversy, like so many similar cases frequently reported (cf. Anthony Abbott, “The Moral Majority Protests Brave New World—Iredell County Showdown,” The Davidsonian, 16 Jan. 1980), illustrates a few important moral and political problems. The principle implicitly recognized by both the Moral Majoritarians and the League of County Voters is that the function and nature of public goods like schools and libraries should be determined by a voting procedure which sums people's preferences and recommends a policy based on those preference sums. Ideally, this principle assumes that people’s preferences are purely “personal,” that is, that they reflect only people’s preferences for their own benefit and enjoyment. But people also notoriously have “external” preferences for the assignments of goods to other people. The problem for the principle at hand—preference utilitarianism—is to find a way to count personal but not external preferences. Washington County needs a way of electorally tallying only people's preferences for reading material for themselves and their children; what it has is an electoral system that allows people to express by their vote their preference for what other people read.

This problem is probably insoluble on a practical level. It raises the more fundamental question of why such goods as libraries and schools should be provided through compulsory taxation in the first place, instead of through private means or at least through tuition tax credits. As long as such institutions remain monistic and in the public domain, they will be subject to majority control; and majority control involves external preferences, people casting votes to determine what other people may read and learn. Surely this is an argument, though not necessarily a decisive one, for removing governmental control from these areas of our lives. Wherever we let democratic government in, we must also let in people like Reverend Williams and Bobby Sproles—people who are of the opinion that “in spite of the libertines, the absolute will prevail,” and who usually assume “the absolute” to be identical with their own (doubtless widely held) opinion.

Rob Campany is a senior philosophy major from U.S.

Fueling Latin American violence

Danny Armistead ‘82

Editor's Note: Danny Armistead wrote a column last week in which he argued that American foreign policy in Latin America runs opposite to American ideals. If my article last week was in any way indicative of the situation in Latin...America certainly represents what is now occurring in El Salvador. In 1930, a military coup set up a succession of military regimes that remained unbroken until October of 1979. This dictatorship first showed its fangs in 1932 when 30,000 demonstrators were massacred while protesting dismissal from work and expulsion from plantations (William Wipfler, “El Salvador: Reform as Cover for Repression” in Christianity and Crisis, May 12, 1980). Injustice continued under an institutionalized inequitable land tenure system upheld by law that allowed the upper two percent of the population to own 60 percent of the land and left 91 percent with 22 percent of the land. El Salvador is a country of five million people and is about the size of Massachusetts. This results in a condition of virtual serfdom for large numbers of landless peasants and for those whose tiny plots cannot support their families. Furthermore, the large landowners have consistently raised export crops on their land rather than those crops necessary for domestic consumption, creating a situation of endemic malnutrition affecting all of the nation’s poor.

What has been the United States’ response to such a deplorable situation? An analysis done by the Institute for Policy Studies showed that U.S. security assistance to El Salvador between 1950 and 1979 was $16.72 million in the form of military hardware, education, and training. Also, 1,971 Salvadoran officers were trained by the U.S. in riot control, military intelligence, and combat techniques. Throughout the 1970s, internal unrest escalated in farce elections and then in a military coup in October of 1979. The new leaders talked of reform and were quickly labeled as “moderates” by the U.S. press. In the same months, government troops killed seven workers and detained 90 in a strike. That same day, mass meetings in several rural towns were attacked, leaving 50 dead and 60 wounded. Thus, repression continued. What was the U.S. response? In November, $200,000 worth of anti-riot equipment was given to the Salvadoran government. This trend of military support in spite of repressive actions continues today. Does this situation sound familiar? It should because it is an old story which Latin American people are tired of living. Is it any wonder that they are revolting? Would they not take advantage of any source of arms to protect themselves and fight for a better chance in life? Neither side is holy, but how we justify supporting the repressive dictatorship in El Salvador and say that we are a non-aggressive, freedom-loving people is not evident to me. So where does this leave Latin Americans but in rural areas and in over-populated cities fighting for their lives against poverty and malnutrition? Meanwhile, U.S.-supported troops are busy killing angered peasants and a few communists under the pretense of stopping the Communist takeover of Latin America.

Dolly Armistead is a junior religion major in a pre-medicine program. Abingdon, Virginia.

---

JOIN THE ARMY
MEET INTERESTING PEOPLE...

---

Nuke debates on TV now in real life.
James Barrat ‘83

Last week I participated in a WSOC TV interview with Jess Riley, an anti-nuclear activist, and Doug Hord, a representative of Westinghouse Campus America. A roaming lobbyist for Westinghouse Corporation, Mr. Hord extolls the safety and efficiency of nuclear energy and attempts to quell the waves of opposition that periodically rise against it on the nation’s campuses. Primarily, Mr. Hord rationalized the establishment of nuclear plants from the perspective of political necessity. He believes it is imperative for the U.S. to develop alternative energy sources—principally nuclear fission—in order to avoid political blackmail from oil-exporting nations. But at what cost? Drawn back to the issue of safety, Mr. Hord and Mr. Riley debated the effects of radiation emitted at the Three Mile Island accident on unborn children and on livestock in the area. Mr. Hord admitted that research on the effects of radiation on genetic structures and subsequent generations of a population exposed to radioactivity is, he said, inconclusive. The only evidence gathered is from survivors of the atom-bombings in Japan.

The unanswered questions about the safety of nuclear energy plants should generate profound concern in Davidson and Mecklenburg County, as the McGuire plant now nears opening, just five miles from campus. But due to the efforts of the Carolina Environmental Study Group (CESG), the licensing hearings for the McGuire Plant have been reopened. At the hearing, scheduled for February 24, Duke Power Company has agreed to discuss the safety of the plant. Nuclear energy’s safety record is relatively clear compared to the damages wrought by reactors fueled with coal. The U.S. does suffer as a result of dependency on foreign nations for fuel, but the potential for a tragedy of epic proportions from using light water nuclear reactors—still a very young and unproven energy source—demands painstaking scrutiny of atomic power, both by the companies running them and the public. The hearings later this month offer a unique opportunity for us, the most closely affected, to participate in the examination of the McGuire plant and its practical safety. After an accident, it will be too late.

James Barrat is the Opinions Editor for The Davidsonian.