—__— eovscummmneniel

Griffith presents admissions study
Today Director of Admissions John Griffith will present a study to the Trustees concerning the College’s admissions policy. Griffith asked the Trustees last spring to have him conduct the study in order to determine if the current policies of the Admissions Department are appropriate for Davidson, and to decide if any changes in the admissions system might benefit the College.
The Trustees are expected to discuss the report and suggest changes Griffith might make before he finalizes the report. The report will probably be made public next week...

Homecoming nominees
Student organizations selected their Homecoming representatives last week, and students have voted to decide which representatives will be Homecoming Queen. The Queen will be announced and introduced along with her court during the halftime of tomorrow’s game.

The Representatives and their escorts are:
Emanon: Barbara Kelley, Tucker Burks
F&M: Lucy Philips, Rob Gillison
PAX: Sidney Foreman, Mike Healy
Fiji: Julie Vanderpool, Sam Fullerton
Phi Delt: Margaret Erwin, Bob Kear
Rusk: Knox Douglas, Nick Viest
KA: Sandy Fossett, Eric Crum
SAE: Anne Keith, Rick Gaines
PiKA: Rebecca Cross, Tom Clark
ATO: Pheobe Forio, Doug Vass
SPE: Penny Godshall, Ralph Taylor
3rd West Belk: Leesa McPhail, Nevins Todd
ETC: Shannon Hamilton, Mark Hammond
BSC: Kay Boyd, Brian Rowan

Term paper company changes policy
The Pacific Research Company of Seattle, which sells research papers, will begin releasing the names of students who bought papers from them. The company will also include more explicit warnings about penalties for fraudulent use of the papers, and will no longer offer “custom research.” See page 1 article for details.

Student returns stolen funds
The student who embezzled $2500 from a campus organization completed his settlement with the College this week. The College received a check for $350 on Wednesday. This amount added to the amount the student returned previously covers the total funds stolen. The student did not pay interest on the money.

Watson nominees named
The College notified this year’s Watson Fellowship nominees of their nominations on Wednesday. Seniors Bill Bargman, James Gelly, Alice Musick, and Betsy Thomas now move to the next level of competition for the awards.

Homecoming!
Homecoming Weekend is here again. Activities include Highland Games this afternoon on the Chambers Lawn, the Delbert McClinton concert at 8 p.m. in the gym, and John Stanfield at 10 p.m. and 11:30 p.m.

Davidson will confront Hampden-Sydney at 2 p.m. tomorrow. Night activities include the Homecoming dance with “Chaser” at the Commons at 9 p.m. and John Stanfield at 10 p.m. and 11:30 p.m. The Union will sponsor a breakfast at the Commons.

See the Campus Calendar for more details.

Construction behind Watts
So you’ve been wondering what’s going on behind Watts? Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze said the construction is a “continuation of the walk from the Commons.” Mr. Meetze said the brick circular bench under construction will “help direct the flow of traffic.” The purpose of the structure is to cover up the mechanical system that includes drains and vents. The area will also have some landscaping.

Mr. Meetze said that long-range plans include building similar areas behind each of the dorms.

Financial trouble across the continent
Last month Washington State Governor John Spellman unexpectedly ordered a ten percent budget cut for all state schools and agencies. The cut has forced the University of Washington to prohibit students from declaring or switching majors because the college will have to omit several majors from the curriculum.

Of the state schools involved, UWash is being affected the most. The college has returned all new applications, and they may have to drop around 3600 current students.

How much can the computer handle?
Two weeks ago, the Davidsonian reported that the new computer system can handle up to 32 terminals. That was right as far as it goes, but it was not the full story, according to Computer Services Director Robert DiSieno. He said right now each of the two computers can handle up to 32 “ports,” or direct connections to the computers. Terminals connect to the computer through a switchboard-like device called Gandalf, however, so that in practice each of the computers can now service up to 45 terminals at once.

John Siman: Editor
Tim Whalen, News Editor
Dave Banks, Executive Editor
Roy Fuller, Features Editor
Anne Goodwin, Features Editor
Newton Allen, Asst. Features Editor
James Barrat, Opinions Editor
Dan Turk, World View Editor
Lucy Everatt, Calendar Editor
James Moore, Production Manager
Lisa Buckley, Head Compositor
Kathy Gingrich, Compositor
John Lusk, Compositor
Bill Appleton, Art Editor
Paul Schulz, Staff Artist
Steve Soud, Sports Editor
Todd Swofford, Staff Artist

The Davidsonian is published Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone 704/892-2000, ext. 148 and 149. Offices located on the top floor of Grey Student Union. Subscriptions cost $10 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage no. USPS 149,300.