Editor

The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, NC 28036

DCF offensive

To the Editor:

Tomorrow the Davidson Christian Fellowship will sponsor a community service workday. According to the bulletin posted in my dorm, “Already
requests are pouring in from professors, senior citizens, and our neighbors across the tracks...” The use of this class slur
is at best unwise and by my standards un-Christian. Identifying groups of people as black and/or low income is no
way to make friends or customers. The very use of the phrase betrays a prideful elitist attitude towards others. Perhaps
the slur was unintentional, but I cannot help but believe that people who unconsciously make this distinction also unconsciously place
value on economic, racial, and ethnic distinctions. I am considering moving “across the tracks” myself. I may not live next
to brilliant professionals of the future, but I figure that whatever is lost in the way of intellectual stimulation will
be far outweighed by a much-needed, healthy dose of Christian Fellowship.

Tom Leonard ’84

K.A. thanks MD donors

To the editor:

The brothers of Kappa Alpha would like to thank the following businesses for their contributions which helped make the M.D.
disco a success:

The Meeting Place
King of Pizza
Peregrine House
Western Steer
The Flower Cart
The Work Bench
The Glass Emporium
Park’s Rexall Drugs
Knox Realty
Natural Resources
The Buttery and Beanery
Old Milwaukee Beer
Gus’s Gourmet Kitchen
Laura’s Rozelle
The Press Box
The Record Bar
Grapevine Records
The Clay Cat

Thanks to the generosity of these businesses and Davidson students, the disco raised over $800.00 for muscular dystrophy.

The Brothers of Kappa Alpha

Midnight Madness thanks

To the Students and Wildcat Fans:

I want to thank the students, faculty, and especially the Wildcat Cheerleaders for their fine efforts in promoting and supporting
“Midnight Madness.” The enthusiasm was great and this enthusiasm gives the basketball team and our program a big boost. Hopefully
with a joint effort on the campus, this team will represent you well. Again, from the team and our staff,
thanks for a great start.

Bobby Hussey,
Head Basketball Coach

Original sin

To the Editor:

My associate and I are mainly students of science, and have had very little exposure to religion. At a recent
DCF meeting, we heard a rather informative discourse on the Original Sin and its consequent fate for mankind. This spawned
a question, which we offer to your readers as not so much a challenge or dare as a genuine search
for an answer. As I have admitted, our theological horizons are dangerously close, so we have no idea of the
complexity (or simplicity) of the answer. The question, however, is this: What would today’s society be like (comparatively, of course)
if the Original Sin had not been committed? We place no question on the answer; any angle you choose to
develop is welcome. Again, we do not dare you, we merely request your knowledge.

James G. Moore ’84
James C. Carson ’84
Jayson P. Murdock IV ’84

Should you be treating your family a little better?

SUMPTUOUS GOURMET FOOD PLEASANTLY SERVED IN EASY SURROUNDINGS

SUNDAY LUNCH

Treating them to dinner out is always nice... but if it's usually “dinner in a paper bag” maybe you should
be treating them a little better. If dinner out is no longer a treat at your house... it's time for
a treat at our house. At The Place we've cooked up a whole new menu full of delicious dishes, and
at the same time we've returned to the old-fashioned prices that will make eating out a welcome change again. Your
family can enjoy everything from baked chicken to an all-American steak dinner... complete with a free salad bar and kid-sized
portions at prices that won't give you indigestion. So come on out and enjoy some of our famous country cooking.
It will be a real old-fashioned treat for the entire family.

THE MEETING PLACE RESTAURANT
Phone 660-0419
Mooresville, NC

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 16 October 1981
