Preppy Authoress Lisa Birnbach, Preppy Handbook editor, hits college lecture circuit

Lisa Birnbach, editor of The Official Preppy Handbook, happily takes credit for the preppy fad now enjoying its second year
of supremacy on campus. Since her witty guide to the mores of the rich and casual appeared in October 1980,
it has become not only a bestseller, but a force moving style-conscious students to buy Lacoste alligator shirts (preferably pink
this year), khaki pants, Sperry Top-Sider shoes, and anything from the “prep mecca” of the L.L. Bean catalogue.

Now a year old, the Handbook has sold a phenomenal 1,193,000 copies, is in its 22nd printing, and has spawned
Canadian and Japanese editions. More is coming. Workman Publishing, which produced the Handbook, is offering preppy desk diaries and the
like to help separate the “key” people from the nerds and wonks.

But, oddly enough, under the Fair Isle sweater, penny loafers, argyle knee socks, and camel corduroy blazer is a different
Lisa Birnbach: a very serious, 25-year-old liberal Jewish Democrat from New York who is mostly amused by the preppy phenomenon.

“People still ask me ‘Was it a joke? Was it supposed to be serious?’” Birnbach says. “I still can’t believe
that it’s that hard to figure out. There’s a difference between you preppies are ridiculous and us preppies are ridiculous.
That’s what we were trying to do.”

“I don’t like it when people want to restrict other people from something. I want everybody to be preppy.” So
despite all the frivolity she has helped promote, she is concerned about the student audiences she plays to almost constantly.

“When students want me to see how preppy they are, they show me their Reagan-Bush stickers. That doesn’t make me
happy at all. I’m political and I’ve always been political, but I recognize that they didn’t invite me to be
Lisa Birnbach. They invited me to talk about prep.” Some of the time her views leak out anyway. At Duke,
she couldn’t resist speaking out against the Nixon library proposed for the campus.

“Students aren’t political at all. I’m worried that they aren’t getting enough out of their education. When I’m up there
I’m not trying to say, ‘Let’s all throw up together.’ There is more to college than that. I hope that
most of them know that all of this is just in fun.”

Birnbach does realize that some do take it seriously, perhaps as a symbol of personal caution. “I wish something else
(other than prep) had become a symbol of playing it safe, but preppy isn’t incompatible with that mood.”

“If the only choices you have are to major in business or art history,” she explains, “one way to play
it safe is to dress preppy.” It has also become a badge of identity. “In the sixties, you knew that
anyone who had short hair was a fascist and voted for Nixon and anybody who had long hair was okay.
Now you can have long hair and be a fascist.” The alternative is to dress preppy.It is “instant respectability. I
mean, you’re always dressed for a job interview.” Birnbach is not without her own prep school credentials. Daughter of a
gem importer and a writer, Birnbach went to Manhattan’s Lennox School, Riverdale Country School, Barnard College, and Brown University, graduating
in 1978 with an English degree. It was at Brown when Birnbach and classmate Jonathan Roberts started keeping notebooks of
the foibles of their fellow students, usually those of the upper classes. “We even had a list of preppy diseases,”
she recalls. “There were a lot of things that didn’t make it into the book.” Sadly for pop culture historians,
the notebooks were lost, and Birnbach and company had to start from scratch when Roberts proposed to Workman Publishing to
“do a book on preppies.” The publishing house was initially uninterested, but in Spring 1980, when designer Ralph Lauren produced
a line of Preppy clothing, Workman changed its mind. Roberts convinced Birnbach to edit the book because Roberts, a Workman
staffer, was busy with other projects. They assembled it in five months. Birnbach “really thought the book would die a
few months after it came out,” when students waded into the school year. “College students don’t spend much time in
the bookstores after they buy their (text) books,” she reasons. Instead, the handbook took off, and Birnbach has been touring
colleges ever since. Her first tour took her to the West and South, including Hampden-Sydney College in Virginia, which she
dubs “the preppiest college in the country.” “Other than Gordon Liddy, I think I’m hitting the college lecture circuit the
hardest,” she laughs. On the circuit, she plays her high priestess of the prep role to the hilt, wearing Top
Drawer regalia and presiding over any kind of pro-preppy event the sponsors concoct. At the University of Southern California, she
judged a Who’s Most Preppy Contest. Some entrants brought golf carts and standing closets full of The Right Clothes. At
UCLA, the winner squeezed a sailboat indoors “along with his slaves.” “Terrific excess,” Birnbach marvels. “It was just great.” Generally,
she does a 90-minute stand-up comedy routine and then answers audience questions. Topics range from prep sex (“a contradiction in
terms”) to drinking. She encourages students to “wear beer.” “Beer is not only a beverage, but a fashion accessory,” she
advises. The ultimate in drinking acceptance is performing the “technicolor yawn” — throwing up in public. “I really love making
people laugh,” she says. “There really can’t be a sequel (to the book) as such,” she adds with a laugh.
“We say that nothing’s changed since 1635, so there isn’t anything different.” (The Boston Latin School, regarded as America’s original
preparatory school, was founded in 1635.) But things have changed for Birnbach. “The main difference is that I know that
publishers will now take more seriously other things I want to do.” From the College Press Service.
