April 24, 1981 — The Davidsonian — 11

(continued from page 1)

Banks said $3,000 is inadequate to meet the needs of the magazine and the campus as a whole. He had
planned to print four issues of Hobart Park next year. Now he will only be able to publish twice, as
Hobart Park has come out twice a year since its founding three years ago. Two issues are not enough, Banks
said, for the number of submissions Hobart Park receives. Their recent call for student work attracted "about 200" submissions, although
it came "on the heels of the Davidsonian literary supplement and the Vereen Bell award, so if anything, there should
have been a lull in submissions," Banks pointed out. He plans to publish 70 of the submissions in a 50-page
issue before the end of the school year. A 50-page Hobart Park costs $1,400.

Welty and Boardman asked the ATC for more money to meet the rising costs of publishing and photography. Welty said
she also planned to include more written copy in the yearbook than it has boasted in the past, but her
limited budget will force her to decrease the size of the yearbook by 20 pages. The cost of adding one
page to the yearbook is $54. Welty and Boardman are considering organizing fundraising projects to obtain extra funds, but said
they are afraid these would take up too much of the staff’s time. They hope that an improved yearbook next
year will encourage increased ATC support in the future.

ATC Chairman Bill Wilson said the activities fee, which is the source of ATC funds, has been $45 for several
years. He expects it will be increased soon. Wilson said any organization may request money from the ATC, but "we
have the responsibility of ensuring that the organizations spend money to benefit all students." Therefore, there is no definite place
for small organizations to go for funds. Small organizations are usually ineligible for ATC money because their scope is too
limited. Small organizations and individual student projects sometimes gain funding through the Union Projects Grant Board.

The ATC meets once each spring to review organizations' funding requests. After the ATC reviews requests, one individual from each
soliciting organization comes before the council to present his case. One ATC member studies each organization and makes a recommendation
to the rest of the Council. Then the ATC holds a private discussion to determine how much money the organization
will receive. The SGA requires each group funded by the ATC to submit a spending report once per term. The
SGA President appoints the ATC chairman. The chairman appoints four student members. The SGA has also appointed Union Director Shaw
Smith, Dean of Students Will Terry, and Business Manager Bob Currie to...

US 441 South
Sylva, NC
704/886-4329

Spring Get Away
A quiet, bale vacation in the Smokies with no interruptions except those you want! Spend an intimate time by the
fireside in your own cottage.
Mountain Brook Cottages
$30 for two people
$35 for four people

SPRING SPECIAL
BUY 3 TACOS, GET A SALAD FREE
OFFER GOOD THRU MAY 2 ONLY!
MUST HAVE COUPON TO RECEIVE FREE SALAD
ONE FREE SALAD WITH PURCHASE OF 3 TACOS
Highway 115, Cornelius
EXPIRES MAY 2, 1981
892-7415serve on the council every year. The student members this year were freshman Julie Cheek, junior Mott MacDonald, sophomore Danny
Waddill, and senior John Miller Mayfield.

—Religion— (continued from page 1)

Faculty Evaluation Procedures, the Administration considers applicants’ teaching ability, scholarship, and compatibility with the Davidson community in deciding whom to
offer a position. Zimmermann said that all three criteria are considered equally. “You can’t make everything stand or fall on
performance.” He added that the students had not gotten a comprehensive view of Malbon’s qualifications because they did not see
her dossier or sit in on the administrative interviews. The students felt that the administration did not get a full
view of Malbon either. “What makes me mad is that they didn’t even hear her lecture,” junior religion major Jayne
Ransom said. The religion department will now begin once more to review candidates’ dossiers, chairman Daniel Rhodes said.

—Dailey— (continued from page 1)

although he has received no firm offers. “I anticipate finding something by the fall,” he said. Ruth said the decision
not to rehire Dailey was “very difficult.” Dailey said Ruth wrote “a good letter” of recommendation for him. His departure
is “a dual career decision,” Dailey said, because his wife Susan is a sociology professor at Queens College. He said
they would like to find jobs within 25 miles of each other. “We both intend, if possible, to stay in
academics,” he added. Dailey said that nationwide there are more sociology applicants for fewer positions this year. Part of the
glut in the market is due to attempts by sociologists who formerly worked for the government to move into academia.
Also, many small private colleges are afraid of drops in enrollment and will not hire until Congress votes on Reagan’s
proposal to cut back on federal student loans, Dailey said.

Dailey feels there is a chance Grigsby may decline the College’s offer because she and her husband also face a
dual career decision. Grigsby’s husband is a Church of Christ minister who was turned down for the position of College
chaplain. Dailey thinks he is still looking for a church in the Charlotte area. Dailey said he did not know
what would happen if Grigsby changed her mind about the College’s offer. He has no reason to believe that the
College would rehire him, he added, except that “time is running out.”

Low Cost and Confidential Birth Control
Pregnancy Testing
Problem Pregnancy Counseling
Abortion Services

“People are often nervous when they come to Planned Parenthood. They shouldn’t be. We’re just regular people, and we try
to make everyone feel comfortable. We want you to come back and bring your friends.” Connie Brown, Receptionist

Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841 MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-5:00 P.M.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD

THE TONSURE

The Lake Norman professionals for every lifestyle!
Denise McGrad Barber stylist 892-1933
Gary W. Bailey Owner

SUDDENLY, THE STATUE LACKS BAT LIFE, AND WE...
