Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Terry, Student Solicitor, senior Chip Christian, said that he and fellow solicitor, senior Bill Purcell, had not influenced Dean Terry's
decision, but that he suspected Dean Terry imposed a light sanction because "Pat had been such a good influence on
all the football players," and "Pat was pretty instrumental in stopping hell-raising." When Dean Terry commented, "Pat Sheridan's case was
handled administratively and if he has chosen to comment publicly I will respond. The student solicitors had no procedural part
to play; they merely expressed a personal opinion. The sanction which I imposed I thought appropriate to the violation, a
period of constructive labor as restitution for destructive behavior. It was certainly easier than being kicked out of school."

Student Solicitor Bill Purcell said, "There are a lot of things I wish we could explain, but we can't."

In the 15 September "Outbasket," Dean Terry said, "Let me be quite clear about how I will deal with vandalism
in the future. Any student found guilty of maliciously damaging college property or doing so under the influence of alcohol
or another drug will be fined $50 plus damages the first time it occurs. If the damage is extensive and
expensive, he/she may be suspended from the college. He or she will certainly be suspended the second time."

Rudeness and impropriety — The Code of Responsibility prohibits both.

Dean of Students Will Terry wrote a letter to the Honor Council recommending a two-term suspension in a recent open
Code of Responsibility case involving public drunkenness and disorderly behavior. The accused had already pleaded guilty. This week, he said
of the incident: "It was certainly within my right. Whether it was wise or not, I don't know. In this
particular case, I just felt that this violation was so serious that it did not deserve just a slap on
the wrist."

Last spring, a letter to the editor of the Davidsonian on 8 May charged that Dean Terry had too much
influence on the Honor Council and questioned his handling of several past Honor Code and Code of Responsibility cases. Commenting
on the feelings expressed in the letter, and on the feeling expressed by Student Solicitor Chip Christian, among others, that
the honor system is mysterious, Dean Terry said, "I think perhaps if that is true, and I can understand why
that's true, I can think of two ways to handle the situation. The first would be to remove the Dean's
office from the system entirely. If the students want that, and the Trustees consent, it would be a great relief
to me."

Dean Terry noted that he has attended only three honor court hearings during his tenure as dean of students. Twice
he testified, and once he attended the hearing on the request of the parents of the accused student. He said,
"I am very careful, almost across the board, to..._avoid comment on their [the Honor Council’s] decisions.” Former Honor Council Chairman
Hope McArn ’81 and present Honor Council Secretary, junior True Davis, each said that they have never felt pressured by
Dean Terry concerning a case. They both added that, given Dean Terry’s experience with the honor system, his advice is
valuable.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
The Student Conduct Council
Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina

Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina 28036
704/892-2000, ext. 148

2 October 1981

To the members of the Student Conduct Council:

The past few terms have been bad ones for the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility. Not only has
there been an inordinate number of violations, but there has also been serious questioning of how fairly punishments have been
applied. We feel one way to begin solving these two problems is to open the record of Honor Council cases.
Of course, the names of accused students should be kept secret, but the number of cases heard each term, the
types and severity of the violations, the number of convictions, the harshness of the punishments, and the names of the
students and administrators who handled the cases ought to be made public on a regular basis.

We believe that making the community aware of how the honor system functions will lead to two improvements in the
way the system works. First, students will become less inclined to violate the Codes. Once they read that their peers
are tried and punished for violations, they will be more conscious that the same standards apply to them. The Honor
Code and Code of Responsibility will seem less like rarefied, idealistic principles and more like the serious regulations they are.
Second, the Dean of Students and Honor Council will be less likely to hand down punishments that are unfair or
inconsistent with other punishments. Once their decisions are open to public scrutiny, they will be forced to justify any decisions
that seem less than just.

Davidson’s tradition of honor is what makes it unique. We must actively work to keep the honor system strong and
valuable to the Davidson education.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
John Siman, editor

page 4/DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981

“People want each individual case to be dealt with individually and not according to precedent. In the past, if they
agree with it and if they don’t agree with it, then they want to pull precedent on you. Now, I
think precedent is a very important guideline. It is very agonizing for me to try to decide what is the
fair thing to do. The easiest road is just to establish certain things will happen in every case regardless of
what it happens to be.” He added, “I’m leaning towards doing that in the future.”
