Davidson Noise Ordinance

Senior Joe Ford will be the student representative to the Davidson Town Council subcommittee studying a possible noise ordinance.

Mayor Nancy MacCormac asked Dean of Students Will Terry to have a student appointed to the subcommittee. Dean Terry then
asked SGA President Chip Legerton to appoint a student. Chip said although the SGA didn’t solicit applications, “about ten people
expressed interest” in the position. Chip appointed Joe from this group.

Chip said the SGA chose Joe because they felt he could “diplomatically represent the students and the school.” They purposely
did not choose someone too close to the problem, such as a member of SPE or FIJI, the two off-campus
fraternities. The initiative for a noise ordinance began after an outdoor party at the SPE house on North Main Street.
“We don’t want to cause conflict with the town,” Chip said.

Dean Terry said an ad hoc committee of students will meet today to see if the College can find other
ways to help the situation. The committee will have no official status with the College or the town. The members
of the committee are SPE President Ralph Taylor, FIJI President Jim Troutman, Patterson Court Council President Joni Seehorn, Dean Terry,
and Joe Ford.

The other members of the town subcommittee are Mayor MacCormac, Davidson Town Police Chief Hebron Mills, Town Councilmen Russell Knox
and Rutledge Withers, North Main Street residents Margaret Potts and Mary Fetter Stough, and two College representatives, Dean Terry and
Joe.

Mayor MacCormac said the subcommittee will start meeting the second week in November.

Officials from the State Division of Environmental Management will be in Davidson to conduct a noise survey at that time.
This is necessary to set standards for the possible ordinance.

The state officials will also teach town officers how to operate equipment to measure noise levels. This equipment would be
used if an ordinance were enacted. This equipment costs $500 to $1500, Mayor MacCormac said.

At this point, the only work done toward enacting an ordinance is to form the subcommittee and arrange for the
noise survey. The town has also collected sample noise ordinances from other college towns such as Raleigh and Chapel Hill,
as well as other towns.

The subcommittee will study these sample ordinances and hear comments from residents and other interested people. Mayor MacCormac estimates the
subcommittee will “make a proposal within a couple of months perhaps.”

Mayor MacCormac stressed that all the meetings will be open to the public. Discussion is in “no way limited to
this group. . . . It is not intended to be a representative committee, but a group of folks to
study the issue.” If the subcommittee proposes an ordinance, the town will hold public hearings before the ordinance is enacted.

By Jeffrey Mann ’84.

Natural Foods • Cheeses • Wines • Imported Beers Coffees • Teas • Gourmet Kitchen Items

128 S. Main St • P.O. Box 607 • Davidson, NC 28036 • 704/892-7521

HALLOWEEN TREATS

awarded to students accepted into medical school as freshmen or at the time of application

Friday 30 October 1981
