Coach Hussey’s Vineyards. 
Page 15.

Artists’ Series

Night's Dream —
presents A Midsummer.
Page 11.

Volume LXXI, Number 9

The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College, Friday 4 December 1981

Student opinion

Analysis of Dr. Kazee’s class’s poll

“Would you like to see sororities instituted at Davidson? What influence did Davidson’s emphasis on athletics have on your decision to enroll here? Do you believe most people report suspected Honor Code violations?”

These were three of the questions posed to Davidson students by Dr. Thomas Kazee’s Public Opinion class this fall. The class focused on the technical skills involved in polling and presented a twenty-question survey to a representative segment of the student population in order to put the skills into experience.

Fifty-six percent of the men surveyed would like to see a sorority and fraternity bid system instituted at the college, while 62 percent of the women polled said they would not like such a system. This might suggest college women feel threatened by bid systems and that they are hesitant about the exclusiveness inherent in such systems.

Thirty-one percent of the women were undecided about questions concerning athletics. This could show that Davidson women are generally insufficiently aware of the College’s athletic program to answer questions concerning it confidently. Seventy percent of the students agreed that the Honor Code works well and needs no major revisions. However, 22 percent of the men and 33 percent of the women polled said that they were not confident that all honor violations are reported. Further, 35 percent felt the Honor Code is enforced inconsistently. A minority of students seems to think the system needs to be checked and scrutinized. It seems that many Davidson students both support and question the Honor System.

By Elizabeth Smiley ’84

Although Dean Terry expressed an interest in receiving the results, he has not yet seen them. The results of the survey will be available to all interested students, administration, staff, and faculty.

Dr. Kazee stressed that the survey was a class exercise in the mechanics of data collection, and that the class did not intend to make any social commentary. He said that any interpretation by the class would be inherently subjective.

[jump to page 3]