THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Dear Gentlemen of the Board of Trustees,

The 1980-81 school year has been an eventful one for the College. The dining Commons and the two new dorms neared completion. The $1 million Computer Center received the final go-ahead. The faculty roundly rejected the Educational Policy Committee’s comprehensive proposals for revamping the College curriculum, and later passed a proposal for a sex-blind, merit-based admissions policy. Black students discussed their views at an open forum for the first time and staged a widely-supported protest against the Kappa Alpha fraternity’s Old South weekend. Students discussed reverting to a fraternity bid system on Patterson Court. The Athletic Department went through three basketball coaches in three weeks. A series of illustrious speakers, philosophers, authors, and politicians came to the campus—many of them proving how very ordinary all men really are. A student got shot at Hattie’s Night, an annual beer party. And, in one farcical week in January, nearly half the campus succumbed to the flu.

The year has left a legacy of some new and many old issues to face. Some of the most important are:

Equality
Although there is little or no overt sexism or racism at Davidson, women and blacks remain second-class citizens. The 2:1 male/female admissions ratio discriminates against women, making their sex count in some cases more heavily in the final admissions decision than their ability as students or their value as human beings. Women athletes get no scholarships, a violation of Title IX. They receive only 9% of the athletic budget and unequal use of sports facilities. Yet they excel: this year Davidson had two state championship teams—both women’s teams. Besides one black professor and two black college employees above the janitorial level, Davidson's 45 black students have no black role models here. Despite a concerted effort by the Administration, the College has been unable to find more black professors and to attract larger numbers of black students. We hope you will seriously consider establishing a merit-based admissions process in consonance with Davidson's ethical ideals, that you will support the establishment of athletic scholarships and equal treatment for women athletes, and that you will pool knowledge and resources to recruit black faculty members and students, establishing a special scholarship fund for students if necessary.

Personnel Policy
Last year the visiting athletic evaluation committee noted the lack of “a clearly defined procedure for receiving feedback on the quality of job done” and “the ambiguity of the schedule for salary and contract negotiations.” This problem, apparently ubiquitous to educational institutions, extends throughout the College. Professors complain of receiving vague evaluations of their performance, or none at all. Temporary appointees are subjected to tremendous emotional stress by being kept dangling concerning their future. The College Constitution places the College under no obligation to notify appointees of their employment status by a specific date. We recommend that you review evaluation and renewal procedures to ensure that there is open and timely communication.

Always, the bottom line is money. Faculty salaries were raised 14% this year—but student fees rose 14% as well. Tuition cannot go up indefinitely. The College needs a new athletic complex, curricular changes, more faculty, more money for minor sports. But first, the College needs a Vice-President for Development. We recommend a unified effort by the entire Board to hire a V.P. for Development by the Fall. The 1987 Program has already suffered setbacks from inflation and changing leadership. The vacancy of the V.P. for Development position cripples the program even more. The endowment has done better these past 18 months than it did in the past. We recommend, however, that you set a specific policy to re-evaluate the investment firms’ performances every year or at least every two years.

Communication
Finally, there is the ever-present problem of communication between the various parts of an institution. You visit the campus a few times a year to review and set policy. In the meantime, there are too few channels for information between the Board and the rest of the College.

The Campus Forum

Apology To the Students and Faculty:
This letter is part of my effort to apologize to the Davidson community for my actions during Spring Awards Convocation. By drinking in a non-designated drinking area and taking a half-gallon of vodka from the alumni office, which has since been returned unopened, I violated the trust and the rules of Davidson College. For any defamation of the reputation and character of this school resulting from my actions, I am truly sorry. I addressed the faculty at their meeting on May 5 explaining my involvement, my punishment, and my regrets. Will Terry spent a great deal of time in reaching adecision on an appropriate penalty. To have come so close to not graduating with my classmates is a most frightening experience, believe me. Take a word of advice—follow the rules that you accepted when you matriculated to Davidson. These rules are reasonable and are meant to mold us into responsible adults. Don’t jeopardize your investment in yourself by indulging in irrational and irresponsible behavior. There are ways to have fun without endangering your opportunity and honor of attending Davidson.
Patrick A. Pope ’81

No justice
To the Editor:
As Davidson seniors, we respect and revere our honor system for what it proclaims to be and for what it could be. On retrospect, we do not find fault with the honor system itself, but with the manner in which it is enforced. Davidson prides itself on instilling a moral attitude in its students. Personal integrity, honesty, and fairness are expected and demanded of Davidson students by the faculty and community, and the students themselves. Yet something seems amiss when sanctions imposed for violations of the Honor Code or Code of Responsibility are not commensurate with the nature of the offense or when sanctions for similar violations are glaringly inconsistent. Where is the justice which Davidson professes to so highly esteem when student punishments are lessened by virtue of the fact that their parents contribute substantial sums of money to the college? Where is justice when athletes are granted lenient punishment in order to ensure a winning season? Where is justice when similar violations are not punished by similar sanctions? Does Davidson College really want to show its graduates that wrong is contingent upon the benefits the perpetrator has to offer the college or is relative to who witnesses the violation? Is wrong any more wrong if the Board of Visitors is present to see the offense? Is wrong any less wrong if Samuel Spencer or Will Terry are not present at the time of the violation? The answers to these questions should concern not only upperclassmen with remaining years at Davidson under this system, but also seniors like ourselves who would wish for future classes the same benefits in a Davidson education as we have experienced. In a recent trial before the Honor Council, Dean of Students Will Terry called into question the competency of the students to govern their own affairs and mete out impartial punishment to their peers. We would ask Dean Terry to what extent is student government really student government and to what extent is it an extension of the will of first floor Chambers? Clearer delineations should be made of the lines of authority involved in the prosecution of offenders. Further, we would call for a uniform codification of honor violations and commensurate punishments to ensure that the injustices dealt in the past are not tolerated again in the future. Inappropriate and inconsistent retribution for breaches of the Honor Code and the Code of Responsibility can only serve to diminish the respect that all Davidson students hold for their honor system. The system is this college’s biggest drawing card. Unquestionably, a Davidson education is inextricably bound up with the students’ faith in the moral tenets the Honor Code upholds—honor, truth, and justice. When the student body observes their elected representatives and the administration not subscribing to the same morality they profess to be defending in prosecuting violators of this system, it can lead to nothing less than the disintegration of the integrity of the college as a whole.
Allison Lewis ’81
Paige Hall ’81
Laura Babcock ’81
Cathy Andrews ’81
Philip Howerton ’81
Cary Vernon ’81
Robert Waller ’81
Jeff Dillard ’81
Danny Pellarine ’81
Frank Capella ’81
William P. Singer ’82
Kathy Bolyston ’81
David Turner ’81

Tunes, tunes
To the Editor:
What it is. I spent half this year writing a song for my independent study. Hope y’all will come hear it Sunday afternoon, 4 o'clock in the 900 Room. It’s gonna be real good. Pass it on. Another scoop for The Davidsonian, huh? Tunes! Tunes! Tunes! Wear something nice. Great.
David Banks ’82

More Campus Forum on page 8

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN, GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO, JAMES BARRAT, DAVID MCCURRY, editor
DANNY ARMISTEAD, DAVID MCCURRY, editor manager
JIM CROWE, WARREN LACKEY, SCOTT MYERS, BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, SCOTT LAURIE, assistants
ELIZABETH BRAZELL, WALT GILL, APPLETON, JIM RUMLEY, SALLY NEAL, MARK LD, production associates
DAVE BANKS, darkroom technicians