March 20, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

(Continued from page 1)

...that "right now the situation has problems." She feels that it hurts someone more to self-select into a fraternity without an oral encouragement and be ostracized than to seek a bid and be rejected. According to KA President Eric Crum, "because the present system can’t be policed and can’t be enforced, it’s inconsistent throughout the court."

Wade’s tentative proposal provides that:
a) Fraternities and other houses should be allowed to issue bids in late January with a few days for freshmen to respond.
b) An Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) officer should monitor the rush period with the authority to sanction violators.
c) Self-selection should be preserved for those houses not wishing to participate in a bid system, thus allowing houses to reach quotas.
d) The PCC should make sure the houses fully understand the financial responsibility involved in a full house.
e) The PCC should work toward incorporating the Sig Eps and the Fijis into the system.

Wade feels "the two-tier system would work 100 percent better than self-selection. It brings everything in the open more honestly." He added that the new system would cause less hurt and disappointment than self-selection because "the atmosphere that houses present to freshmen at first would be more friendly."

——Kresse interview———

(Continued from page 1)

...aspects of players’ games." He said, "We must roll up our sleeves. I'll work as hard as I can." Kresse’s immediate plans involve recruiting for next season’s team. He is not worried that Davidson’s strong academic program interferes with athletics or discourages prospects. He said he will emphasize Davidson’s tradition of turning out graduates successful in the business world.

This week Kresse is concentrating on meeting and getting to know the players. He does not anticipate any personal conflicts with the team. He said, "I demand discipline, but the pat-on-the-back will always be there in a very professional sense. I’m also not going to be a bull in a china closet. I’ve had very fine player-coach relationships in the past." Kresse said that Biedenbach has been quite gracious and has helped me with information about players and program and has also handed over much recruiting material.

Kresse began playing basketball at St. John’s College under the legendary Joe Lapchick, one of the original Celtics. Soon afterwards, he took a job coaching basketball and baseball at a high school in Queens, New York. In 1965, when he was 21, he returned to St. John’s as an assistant coach.

The current system assigns freshmen to eating houses by running their selections through a computer in random order. Freshmen may either name their first three choices or "shot-gun" a single house. Freshmen must fulfill certain interest requirements in order to self-select an eating house. Interest requirements include meeting at least one house officer, attending five social functions, and eating three meals at the house.

Court fraternities "orally encourage" those students they wish to have join. These encouragements replace the former written bid system. Stockton said prospective KA pledges are orally encouraged after the members decide which ones they want to join. They are brought together and asked to shot-gun for the house. "An oral encouragement is really a thinly disguised bid," he commented.

Phi Delt President Mike Iordanou said "the system is working fine for us... We haven’t had any trouble like the other houses." He said all those who desired to become Phi Delts received oral encouragement. However, because he feels problems might arise in the future, Iordanou "wouldn’t mind seeing" the former fraternity system reinstated. "I would vote against self-selection," he said.

Although the present system is "kind of an inconvenience," SAE President Burton Vance feels self-selection "works pretty well." He believes the system is good for Davidson because of the College’s size. Former SAE President Blaine Sanders feels the self-selection process "is super for the eating houses," but for the court in general, the term self-selection is a "misnomer," he said. Self-selection is "hypocritical if you think about it." Both Vance and Sanders support the two-tiered system. Sanders believes the proposed system would be the most forthright although there may be "logistical problems" involved.

On the other hand, self-selection "I see problems in the way the system is functioning now, but ideally I believe the system can work." Wilson thinks that the freshmen do not get down to the houses enough, and that oral discouragements, while theoretically illegal, do in fact occur. Wilson, former president of Emanon, believes the addition of interest require-ments has helped the self-selection process. As a result of these expectations, he said, "freshmen have become more aware of their responsibility of going down to the houses and meeting the members." He added, "The more we can encourage freshmen to visit above and beyond the interest expectations, the better the system will work."

Crum feels that the College should either enforce the self-selection system or adopt the two-tiered system. Stockton added, "I am sure if there was a student-wide referendum on whether or not to keep self-selection, all the fraternities would be in favor of a two-tiered system."

According to Dean Terry, "If there is a need to renovate, the way will not be referendum... We should investigate and study it and make recommendations if warranted." Sophomore PiKA Ken Krieg said, "What is needed at the moment is for the PCC to ask the Trustees to initiate a study of the efficacy of the present self-selection system."

German Professor Hansford Epes, who was active in reforming the social system at Davidson in the early '70s, said, "I really wonder if students who want to go to a two-tier system realize how great the danger is that there will be an upper and lower tier. Do we really need a potentially divisive class structure on a campus as small as this one?"

College President Samuel Spencer first outlined the present system in a September 1970 speech. In the speech he said, "A new system would put all students on an equal basis with regard to the cost of meals and social functions. It would foster closer contact between faculty and students on an informal level. It would eliminate rush week, one of the most disruptive and wasteful procedures of the college year."

The present social system was designed to alleviate fraternity problems of the late 1960s. Fraternities have existed at Davidson since 1858.

Wow! Don't you love The Dark by Scot Myers '84

Kresse returned, "GLAD I FOUND YOU, I'M FINE."

"GLAD I FOUND my BLASTER!" 

"PUT YOUR GUNS DOWN," CAUTIOUSLY, SIGNAL AND ARCHIE RELAXED.

"CAN YOU HELP US FIND OUR WAY OUT OF THESE CAVES?" ASKED SIGNAL.

A TOOTHLESS GRIN GREETED THE QUESTION. "AYE, ME FRIENDS, FOLLOW IF YE SEEK LANDS OF MAGIC."

BY DUSK THE TRIO STOOD ON THE PLANET'S SURFACE.

"YOU, SZEML. ANY IDEA WHICH WAY IS OUT?"

THROUGH THESE CAVERNS, SIGNAL AND ARCHIE RESUMED THEIR QUEST TO FIND BLACKRING'S MAGIC RUNESWORD AND FREE THEIR PEOPLE FROM THE EVIL WIZARD LOPAK. ARCHIE MONITORED PASSING TUNNELS FOR SIGNS OF LIFE. SUDDENLY, THE PASSAGE AHEAD GLOWED WITH AN EERIE LIGHT. THE GLOW FADED AS AN OLD MAN HOBBLED AROUND THE TURN.

"KEEP MOVING ONWARD AND FIND A ROUTE OUT," SIGNAL'S BILL APPLETON PANEL NO. 2 1981.

THE FEEBLE FIGURE CACKLED, "EH... POOR YENO WILL NOT HURT YE... HURRY NOW, IT WON'T BE LONG UNTIL THE BEASTS."

New computer (Continued from page 1)

Psychology Professor John Brockway, a member of the ad hoc committee on instructional use of the computer, said the new computer "will give Davidson students a competitive edge. It provides a different way to look at liberal arts education." The Prime 750 and 550 are "an economical choice—a wise use of funds." He expressed hope that with the new computer system, Davidson students will develop "computer literacy." Epes said students "should have some conception of how computers work and what they are—and are not—good for."

Student members of the committee Mark Phillips and Mark Thomas also approved of the purchase. The present computer is "pretty poor," Thomas said. "It's horrible," Phillips exclaimed. "It can't write a program more sophisticated than Math 23; it doesn't print fast enough; and the editor function is just the worst I've ever seen."

The Prime 750 features computer-assisted instruction function, in which the computer acts as an electronic tutor. This will be especially valuable in language drills, Desieno said. "The video screens on the terminals make the 750 useful for editing and revising," DeSieno pointed out. The computer's memory makes it possible to revise a paper without preparing several drafts. The 750 will also create graphics and support analysis of laboratory data and large data sets. 

The Prime system's "integrated data base" ensures the security of confidential data, DeSieno added. The new system is a sign of the times, according to DeSieno. "Colleges are prisoners of technology." 

In ten years the College will probably replace the Prime computers with even more advanced models, according to Epes.