Friday, 18 September 1981 by Steve Soud '84

When football Coach Ed Farrell and his assistants loaded the bus bound for Wofford, they packed on two surprises—a keg of TNT and a sophomore quarterback named Keith Martin. The results were surprising, and the surprise package led to the most exciting Davidson football in recent history, as the underdog Cats turned the tables on the Terriers in a 22-21 come-from-behind thriller.

“We went into the game planning to have a good time,” said Martin, in his first starting assignment at Davidson. The merriment was in evidence in the first half as the Wildcat offense moved the ball well, but fumbles, all of them luckily regained, stalled the party. Some overzealous offensive linemen also committed a few penalties, keeping the damper on. The defense was celebrating on its own, clamping down on the Wofford wishbone. The Terriers made practically no progress until in the second quarter they cashed in on three broken plays for big yardage. The Terriers were on the move, and soon thereafter they threw an endzone bash as they celebrated a 7-3 halftime lead.

The Davidson good time appeared to be breaking up in the second half as Wofford recovered a Wildcat fumble on the Davidson 14. The Terriers again capitalized and went ahead 14-3. The Wildcats, however, remained unshaken. “We knew all the time we could come back. We didn’t get nervous. That was the reason we did come back,” commented Martin. Apparently without anxiety, Martin kept the ball on a broken play and bolted 83 yards until he was finally brought down at the Wofford one-yard line. The offensive line wasn’t making progress against the Terrier goal line stand, so Farrell opted for a fake to fullback Ray Sinclair. Sinclair’s over-the-top drive fooled the defense, and Martin connected with Mickey Dillon in the end zone for the TD. Placekicker Wayne Paymer, who had already had one of his two field goal tries blocked, came on for the extra point but was wide of the mark. Paymer had spent most of the week sidelined with a muscle pull, and his timing was off.

Just when the DC road party was warming up again, 14-9, the Terriers ran the kickoff back to the Wildcat 35. To worsen matters, they scored on fourth down to go ahead 21-9. Farrell took one look at the scoreboard and decided that the good time needed livening up. He sent someone (we know not who) back to the bus for the keg of TNT, and Davidson had a blast thereafter. The offensive explosion started with about 10 minutes left in the game. The offense executed a clinic-like mix of pass and run, and sophomore Bob Miller charged across the final four yards of the drive to tighten things at 21-15. That was as tight as it got, though, as Wofford arose in full force to block the point-after attempt.

The Wildcats took over the ball with 3:03 on the clock, and unsuspecting Wofford was about to experience the second offensive explosion in the chain reaction started by Farrell’s TNT. A predominantly pass-oriented drive brought Martin and co. to the Wofford 15, and the party was jumping. Celebration appeared premature as the Cats couldn’t keep anything going. It was only the calm before the storm, however, as Martin pinpointed sophomore split end Jeff McSwain, who went out of bounds at the four. The call could have gone either way, and the officials, apparently caught up in the Davidson revelry, called it a completion. Whew! Hold your breath, folks, we got a wild one here! Nineteen seconds left. Wildcats on the Wofford 4. Davidson down by six. A touchdown ties, the PAT wins. As a coach, you’re looking to throw three or four pass plays. Remember, an incompletion stops the clock. Well, that “Out” play had the split end wide open every time on that last drive. Try it, but if it’s not open, don’t hesitate to throw the ball away. We can’t afford a sack or an interception! You run the play. Todd Hermety is open in the endzone. Martin sees him, hits him with the pass. Boom! Touchdown! Tie game, 21-21! People hear a lot about “experience” in sports, but at no time was it more evident than Saturday night. Paymer came on, having had two kicks...blocked and another just plain missed. That’s a lot to ask anyone to go through, and putting a game-winning situation on one’s feet can’t help matters. But put the magic word “senior” in front of his name, and the experience factor enters. Despite what had gone before, Paymer split the uprights. Davidson 22, Wofford 21. That’s when the real party began. Martin, of course, was hailed as a hero, but what of Brian Whitmire, who was the helmsman all last year? He was performing heroics of a different sort—unsung heroics. “Brian was tremendously involved in the game. He talked to Keith about things he saw from the sideline. He showed great enthusiasm for the defense,” praised Farrell. Whitmire’s cheering earned him the game ball.

by Steve Soud ‘84

What does a football coach say about a game in which he considers himself a two-touchdown favorite, yet loses by four? Wildcat Coach Ed Farrell says of his 32-7 shocker dealt by Newberry College, “We were very disappointed, very embarrassed, but not the least bit discouraged.” The disappointment came not from a porous defense, but from a usually potent Wildcat offense. Five Davidson turnovers led to three Newberry touchdowns. The first key turnover led to the first half’s only score. The Wildcats fumbled inside the 25-yard line, and the opportune Indian offense put the ball in the end zone. The Newberry kicker missed the point after, and the score stood 6-0 at the half.

The first half Davidson offense was not opportunistic at all in comparison. Although senior quarterback Brian Whitmire carried the team inside the 30-yard line four times in the first half, the offense conked out each time. Turnovers were again the problem. The game’s second touchdown was a virtual repeat of the first, Newberry scoring off a fumble. Indian Coach Reed Charpia elected to go for a two-point conversion, but that was missed as well.

The Davidson offense finally clicked into form early in the fourth quarter as the offense worked a 61-yard touchdown drive on the strength of senior fullback Ray Sinclair. Sinclair rushed for 40 yards in the series, including a four-yard TD sprint. Senior Wayne Paymer nailed the PAT, and the Wildcats stood well within reach of a win, 12-7.

Offensively, the Cats did not show much clout. Single-season rushing record-holder Sinclair ran for 74 yards on 24 carries. Whitmire and sophomore QB Keith Martin completed a dismal 11 of 32 passes to cover 113 yards. In retrospect, Farrell considered his choice of less contact in training the root of the problem. He credited “missed offensive line assignments” to the lack of training contact and a short thirteen-day workout schedule. Last season, key starters fullback Alvin Atkinson and split end Gifford Piercy were severely injured during preseason training, removing two key scoring threats from the offense.

According to Farrell, the team played a physical game, hitting hard and hustling. “We had no mental toughness, however,” he said, “Ninety percent of the time we missed assignments. They weren't beating our blockers, we were beating ourselves,” Farrell concluded.

The Newberry game was somewhat an indicator of the team’s strengths, however. The defensive secondary is experienced and has some depth. The big front five (averaging 246 lbs.) consists of mostly seasoned veterans of trench warfare. On the other hand, the offensive line is inexperienced but will grow more capable as the season wears on.

The key to the play is the split end pattern. The split end runs toward the cornerback, and as the defense drops back, he cuts toward the sideline and back to the line of scrimmage. The pass should be low and away, necessitating a diving catch to prevent an interception.

The “Out” Play
This is the pass play that scored the winning touchdown against Wofford. The ball is snapped, and the quarterback drops into the pocket, which includes the running backs pass blocking. The wingback runs a flag pattern, while the tight end blocks. If the linebackers delay their blitzes, the tight end goes out as the “hot receiver.”

The Meeting Place announces its reopening. Mooresville-on-Avon with new management. A new chef. And an old world atmosphere. Serving four days a week—Thursday through Saturday from 5:30 to 10:00 and Sunday from 11:30 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Luncheon special on Sunday—$6.95 the plate.