OAs 2—The Davidsonian—March 20, 1981

News at a Glance

Alcohol use on the intramural fields, baseball fields, and tennis courts is in violation of the Code of Responsibility according
to a statement issued by the Dean of Students office today. Students may drink only in the 900 Room, the
dorms, and Patterson Court. Also, cars and motorcycles are restricted to the roads and parking lots.

The College Bowl team left yesterday for the National College Bowl Championship at Marshall University in Huntington, West Virginia. They
hope to regain the first place crown, which the College’s team won two years ago. There will be twenty-four teams
competing. The team received a first-round bye and will play the winner of the Temple vs. Tulane match on Saturday.
The tournament will end on Monday. Team members include captain Tim Newcomb, Bob Evans, Julie Gibert, Ed Trumbull, and alternate
Marvin Overby.

Candidate sign-ups for SGA president and vice-president started last Tuesday. Sign-ups for these elections will end next Tuesday, and the
elections will be on Tuesday, March 31. Sign-ups for the offices of class senators, student solicitor, defense advisor, review board,
honor council, student conduct council, and the Council on Campus and Religious Life begin next Tuesday. Sign-ups for these offices
will close the following Tuesday, and the elections will be on Tuesday, April 6. Candidates are not permitted to campaign
until sign-ups for their offices close.

Davidson College is one of the top seven “men’s snob schools” in the country, according to The Lexington Leader. It
is, the Leader article said, one of the rare institutions still offering “an aristocratic education.” Harvard, Brown, Columbia, Rutgers, Washington
and Lee, and Claremont are the other six schools with the most “snob appeal.”

The ROTC department will sponsor a blood drive on April 22.

NEW LONGER HOURS:
Monday, 11 am to 2 pm
Tues-Thurs, 11 am to 8 pm
Fri-Sat, 11 am to 9 pm

Texas Style TACOS & BURGERS
Buy 1 Taco—Get 1 FREE!
Free Taco with purchase of another
Limit: six. OFFER GOOD THRU MARCH
Must have coupon to receive free taco
892-7415 Hwy. 115 Cornelius, across from the 7-11

NRC reopens licensing hearings
McGuire nuclear plant may be dangerous
By JIM POLLARD
Staff Correspondent

New doubts about the safety of the McGuire Nuclear Plant caused the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to reopen McGuire’s licensing
hearings on February 24.

Last summer, the anti-McGuire Carolina Environmental Study Group (CESG) brought new evidence concerning the Three Mile Island nuclear accident of
1979 before the NRC. The safety of McGuire’s one-inch-thick containment shell came into question because hydrogen gas formed in the
Three Mile Island accident exploded with a force of 28 pounds per square inch (psi). McGuire’s one-inch-thick steel shell is
designed to withstand a pressure of only 15 psi. CESG President Jesse Riley said in the February 22 Charlotte Observer,
“The potential physically exists for that containment to blow sky high.”

The federal licensing panel will not allow Riley to testify because they do not consider him to be an expert
on hydrogen explosion questions. Duke officials insist that the structure is actually able to withstand a force of 65 pounds
per square inch. Duke lawyers said that the installation of an ignitor system which would burn hydrogen as it formed
would prevent an explosive build-up of the gas. Dr. Marshall Berman of Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico questioned the
effectiveness of such ignitor systems, however. He said in the March 11 Observer, “Personally I feel there is a problem,
a danger, I can’t say a detonation will occur, I can’t say it won’t.” The NRC will present eight witnesses
who disagree with Berman’s testimony according to the March 11 article. Duke officials added that safety procedures make a hydrogen-related
accident impossible.Manager, Ken Canaday, said in the February 22 Observer, “We don’t believe there is any real possibility of hydrogen
being generated... We believe the licensing of operators will ensure that the reactor is always flooded with water.” In the
Three Mile Island accident, operator error allowed the water coolant to escape from the reactor, causing the reactor to overheat
and to evolve the explosive hydrogen. The CESG asked the licensing panel to subpoena professors from Davidson and UNCC in
order to delineate the risks of operator error. CESG lawyer Shelley Blum said that Davidson professors are reluctant to testify
because Davidson receives funds from the Duke Endowment, which is primarily supported by Duke Power Company. College Psychology Professors John
Kello, John Brockway, and Edward Palmer received subpoenas and testified on March 5. The hearings take place in the Charlotte
public library at 310 N. Tryon Street.

Three seniors receive graduate fellowships
By JEFF HOLLAND
Staff Writer

Seniors Rob Campany, Hugh Crenshaw, and David Rhodes have won prestigious graduate fellowships. Campany, a philosophy major from Abingdon, Virginia,
won a Luce Fellowship to fund a professional apprenticeship in Asia. Campany also received a Fulbright Fellowship, which he had
to decline. Crenshaw was one of 70 recipients of a Thomas J. Watson Scholarship, which he will use to pay
for research in the South Pacific. Crenshaw is a biology major from Durham, North Carolina. Rhodes, an economics major from
Decatur, Georgia, won a four-year Justin Potter Medical Scholarship to Vanderbilt Medical School.

Campany and 14 other recipients chosen by the Henry Luce Foundation will work for a year in the Far East
towards the goal of improving American understanding of Asia. This is the first year the Foundation invited Davidson to nominate
candidates for the fellowship. “The program sets you up with what you want to do,” Campany said. “If you’re interested
in law, they'll put you in a law office.” Campany will spend the year teaching philosophy in a university in
Taiwan or Hong Kong, preferably Taiwan. He is also interested in making contact with some of the Christian missions there.
“The program is more experiential than academic,” Campany said. “I’ll be placed in a university there because I’m interested in
college teaching and would like to be a college professor.”

Although he is not familiar with the language, Campany said he will be studying Chinese over the summer. Upon his
return, he plans to go either to divinity school or to graduate school in philosophy.

Crenshaw was one of four Davidson students chosen by the Davidson Selection Committee to submit proposals to the Watson Foundation.
The Watson Fellowship gives winners the opportunity to go anywhere in the world to study the subject of their choice.
Crenshaw will travel to the South Pacific and study coral reef ecology at Enewetak Atoll in the Marshall Islands, New
Guinea, and the Great Barrier Reef in Australia. He will work with researchers in the area and conduct individual research
to study zooplankton. “By concentrating on zooplankton, I hope to fan out from there and learn about coral reef systems,”
Crenshaw said.

Rhodes’ Potter Scholarship is worth $10,000 a year and is awarded annually to four students from the Southeast. The four
finalists were chosen from 12 semi-finalists who were flown to Nashville for interviews, tours, and other programs, Rhodes said. Rhodes
is not sure what he will be studying at Vanderbilt but said he is leaning towards emergency medicine.

A number of fellowships are available to seniors and interested persons should contact the Dean of Students’ office or Philosophy
Professor Lance Stell, chairman of the Davidson Graduate Fellowship Committee. Stell advises rising seniors to start developing proposals for these
programs “very soon.”

GIVE TO THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY. This space contributed as a public service.
