Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

New building schedule to open by April 1983

New Post Office planned:

According to the Post Office, the location will be changing. The Post Office will be relocated by April 1983.

Postmaster John Fisher said he expects the new Post Office to be built in the vacant lot behind the courthouse.
He explained that the current Post Office is inadequate for the growing town. All the boxes are rented, and more
room is needed for those people wanting to rent a box. The new Post Office will be twice the size
of the present one.

According to Business Manager Robert Currie, the College and the town decided two years ago that the Post Office should
be relocated. He said that the U.S. Postal Service leases the Post Office building from the College. The Postal Service
held a twenty-year lease that expired in 1980. Since that time, the College has given the Post Office a series
of three one-year leases. The current lease expires in Spring 1983, and Currie said the College has decided not to
renew it.

Moving the Post Office fits in well with the town’s downtown development program, according to Town Planning Commission Chairperson Rosemarie
Burts. Ms. Burts said the town prefers the “expanding of downtown behind the railroad tracks instead of up and down
Main Street.”

Currie said the College plans to move the student store into the present post office. He also said that relocating
the post office in the middle of downtown would lead to more interaction between the students of the College and
the merchants and townspeople of Davidson.

Ms. Burts agreed that the new post office would serve as an “anchor” for the future growth of Davidson’s downtown.

A new post office is scheduled to open in Davidson in the spring of 1983. The College will decide what
to do with the old post office building in the near future.

Photo by Neil Cooksey '83

Currie mentioned that perhaps the space the student store currently occupies in the Union could be used to expand WDAV.

By Deepak Sawhney '84.

Student Conduct Council
Council decides to release convictions, sanctions, and appeals each term

The Student Conduct Council (SCC), acting on a proposal from Davidsonian Editor John Siman, decided in a closed meeting on
16 November to regularly release more information about the final decisions of cases than the College has in the past.

The SCC decided to release information at the beginning of each term “as to the number of Honor Code or
Code of Responsibility cases that are heard by the Honor Council or by the Dean’s Office, the number of convictions,
types of sanctions for violations, and the number of appeals heard,” according to the minutes of the meeting.

Dean of Students Will Terry said that offenses would not be linked to sanctions in order to preserve the anonymity
of the students involved. Sanctions will be broken down into Honor Code and Code of Responsibility categories, however. Information on
last term’s cases should be available by next week, Dean Terry said. He said he could not provide the information
sooner because some cases were still pending.

John was not invited to the meeting. Dean Terry said that John was not invited because, “We felt we had
all we needed in his letter.”

In a 2 October open letter, John asked the SCC to release the new information for two reasons. The first
was to make the Honor System more visible. “Once [students] read that their peers are tried and punished for violations,
they will be more conscious that the same standards apply to them,” he wrote. The second was to make the
System more accountable to the College community. The letter said, “The Dean of Students and Honor Council will be less
likely to hand down punishments that are unfair or inconsistent with other punishments. Once their decisions are open to public
scrutiny, they will be forced to justify to the community any decisions that seem less than just.”

In several conversations, SCC members seemed to agree that the Honor System should be more visible. However, they either did
not agree that accountability is necessary for a just system, or thought it impossible to allow public scrutiny of the
Honor System while still protecting the anonymity of the students involved.

John said of the decision, “It bothers me that the SCC didn’t consider putting checks on the System. We can’t
take it on faith that the Honor System works well. You have to check up on things in order to
make sure that they do. I think Dean Terry can be capricious, and it’s possible that his personal feelings might
affect the outcome of many of the cases he handles. For reasons like this, I think there should be mechanisms
for checking up on how the System is handled.”

In other business, the SCC accepted a motion to make two changes in the Code of Disciplinary Procedure. The minutes
of the meeting said the first proposal is to “change the length of time for a person to appeal to
the Review Board or the President from ten to five days.” The second proposal said that “When a student is
suspended, he/she shall ordinarily leave the campus within 48 hours after the conclusion of his/her judicial process. A suspended student
shall not come on campus without the permission of the Dean of Students.”

Dean Terry said the SCC will reconsider these two proposals for final adoption at another meeting in a few weeks.

By Jeffrey Mann '83
