February 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

Russ Warren during his “Zeke” period. The artist is now working on a new autobiographical series. (College Communications)

Students on emergency call fix cut fingers and save lives
By JENNY O’BRIANT
Staff Writer

“I’m not playing doctor,” said Freshman Jeff Trawick, member of the Davidson College Emergency Medical Technicians Squad (EMTS). “I have
my own set of responsibilities which correspond to my abilities.”

EMTs provide a valuable service to the Davidson students and community. Although most campus medical emergencies are relatively minor, situations
do arise which the average student might not be able to handle. EMTs are available for just these situations.

Becoming an EMT is not easy. Davidson EMTs are qualified to administer basic first aid treatment, including Cardio-Pulmonary Resuscitation. They
may not, however, administer drugs or IVs. Only about half of the current staff is certified, the other is in
training.

Unfortunately, the EMT program is suffering from a lack of student awareness and, consequently, a lack of student participation. “The
program could be improved by active participation by many more students,” said Senior Don Matthews, EMT Squad Chief, “...and much
more dedication.” Junior Lisa Young, EMT, also said the program is especially lacking in “student involvement.” “There are a lot
of students who don’t know about the service,” Young said.

EMTs are available around the clock, seven days a week. The program, Matthews said, is sponsored by nurses at the
College Infirmary who relay calls to the EMTs via radio. The squad also “pays special attention to weekends” and sporting
events, according to Sophomore Walter Lee, EMT.

Student reaction to the EMT service has been mixed. Some feel the EMTs are very effective. Junior Sam Fullerton was
wrestling with a football player last year when he dislocated his knee. He called the EMTs, who immobilized his knee
and drove him to the infirmary. “It took them awhile to reach me, but not any longer than it would
have taken anyone else. They did a good job taking care of me.”

Others feel the program is too effective—bordering on overkill. Freshman Nelson Westerhout was playing frisbee in the gym when he
ran into a volleyball net pole. Westerhout, however, thought the EMTs might have been too attentive for such a minor
accident. “I think they kind of overdid it,” Westerhout said. “(My injury) wasn’t that serious. I didn’t need the ambulance
and everything. I would have lived if (the EMTs) hadn’t been there.”

Current finances for the EMT program have not been a problem, Matthews said. The SGA allotted the EMT program $500
this year. So far less than $100 has been spent. “The money situation isn’t that bad,” Matthews said. “We have
enough of what we need for the current staff. If we have more people, then we’ll need more equipment.”

Obviously, the program is not as effective as it could be. “We think the program will be improved when all
of us are certified,” Lee said. “Those that are not certified work with those who are.” “We fix cut fingers
and save lives,” one EMT said, “and ninety-nine percent of the time, you win. When you don’t, you realize, as
a physician once told me, that ‘We are just not supreme.’”

THE HAIR COTTAGE
Creative hair cutting for men and women
Owner/Stylist: Jane Schenk
Stylist: Linda Caldwell
1757 E. Rocky River Road
By appointment only
892-5107

Russ Warren has arrived ahead of time
Art to the Whitney via ambulance
By JOHN MILLER MAYFIELD
Staff Writer

For Art Professor Russ Warren, “How does an artist make it?” is a nearly impossible question to answer. But by
art standards, he is making it. Most artists under 40 are considered too young for their work to be seriously
evaluated. At 29, Warren’s work is on display at what is perhaps the most important show for a rising American
artist, the 1981 Biennial Exhibition at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City.

The Whitney ranks as the world’s most important American art museum and has, for this exhibition, selected only 60 artists.
Warren is no newcomer to success. He won the 1980 North Carolina Artist Annual Exhibition, at which the juror was
Richard Marshall, curator of the Whitney. It was an important coincidence. The people at the Whitney had been looking at
Warren's art since 1977. Marshall was impressed with his recent work. When the Whitney asked to see more, Warren knew
something was up. He tried to be realistic, he said, rationalizing that things had been going well, but not well
enough to be selected for the Whitney. Nevertheless, they soon requested that he participate in the prestigious annual exhibition; it
was, he admitted, distinctly a high point in his career.

Warren has painted seriously since his college days. He began at the University of St. Thomas in Houston, painting images,
funny figures that were the antithesis of the currently popular abstract style.After graduating from the University of New Mexico, he
decided to teach himself how to paint, not allowing his own youthful creativity to be overpowered by the popular styles
of graduate schools. Two years of unrestrained painting—financed by his daily ambulance driving—allowed the images to grow. They got better.
He completed graduate work at the University of Texas at San Antonio and came to Davidson in 1978. Here, he
devotes all his time to art, attempting to deal with the same artistic principles in the classroom as in the
studio. His efforts have paid off: last week he was in New York for the exhibition’s opening. The people at
the Whitney have recognized the stark, direct quality of his neo-primitive, figurative canvases. The two now at the Whitney, which
he considers his most important works to date, are part of his new autobiographical series. (His fans will be sorry
to hear that the artist has left behind the “Zeke” images depicting the life and death of the Warren family
dog.) In the autobiographical series, Warren strives for a technically precise style that evokes a personal statement mixed with mystery
and humor. He invites the viewer to ponder iconographic self-portraits, complete with primitive figures of the goateed professor which cast
mysterious shadows as they pose, dance, and ride horses before colorful backgrounds. As Warren spends the week in New York
for the exhibition’s opening, he must feel an intoxicating excitement over the notice his art has won. Before he left,
however, he said he was already looking forward to returning to normal and going to work again. Students traveling in
the New York area during Spring break are reminded that the Biennial Exhibition will be at the Whitney Museum Feb.
4—April 19. (Bill Giduz)

Bill Giduz can ‘joggle’ his cameras
By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Writer

Bill Giduz and Davidson get along well. Granted, many people are born with a natural disposition toward the College, but
Bill interacts in a unique way. While neither a professor nor a student, Bill Giduz manages to teach, serve the
college, and work with students. Bill graduated from Davidson in 1974. As a student, he was a founding member of
Emanon, that popular eating house whose name ensures anonymity when all else fails. “It was a long and tedious process,”
he recalls with satisfaction. Bill wanted to name the house with Chinese letters, but “that was canned because we couldn’t
get checks printed.”

Bill displayed his appreciation for the outlandish in his junior year when he studied and traveled in France. For most
students, one year would have been enough, but Bill returned to France after graduating and spent ten months “just traveling
and living.” His explanation is a simple acknowledgment of appetite: “I just couldn’t get enough.” But all good things must
come to an end—or at least lead to other good things—so Bill found his way back to American soil. Within
three days of arriving, he was at Columbia University, working toward a master’s degree in journalism. After graduating from Columbia
in 1976, he took a job in Southern Bell’s public relations offices in Atlanta. Bill and the job mixed like
fire and water. “I had to write a lot of lies,” he explained. When handling policy problems, he had to
write material which pleased the company’s many administrators, sacrificing his conscience and sense of originality.

In January 1980, Bill came to Davidson to work in the Communications Department, where he now produces school publications, including
the Update. He feels he is given freer rein in his work, compared to Southern Bell. “Davidson’s public relations are
not so tightly controlled.” Bill added, “I like doing things for Davidson; it’s a good job, doing hard work and
the things I enjoy. It’s a chance to do many things at once.”

Bill contributes his active talents to school life. Several years ago, his brother taught him to juggle, and he now
pursues the art with gusto. He holds regular juggling classes in the Union, which he advertises with the art that
has made him nationally conspicuous. He was pictured “joggling” (running and juggling) in the January 1981 Runner’s World. He is
also editor of the bimonthly newsletter published by the International Jugglers Association, which takes him to international conventions and ensures
that “my mailbox is never empty.” Bill is also Davidson’s chief photographer, and he finds photography another medium for working
with students. Besides regularly capturing student life on film, Bill directs the student photographers on the communications staff. He loves
photography because of “the finished picture... It feels good if it’s good technically and artistically.” Bill’s work is presently on
exhibit in the Union. In April, Bill plans to bring someone else to Davidson; he will marry a girl whom
he met in Atlanta. “The time is right and I’m ready,” he said. It would seem that this is not
the first time in his life he has made this statement.
