Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Since the annual was not published until 1885 and the catalog does not mention anything musical until the 1894 edition, fortunately, Miss Cornelia Shaw wrote for times just following the war when Davidson men and village women created a singing club, supplying music for chapel services and open-air entertainment in the “cupola” on nice evenings. The men of this group developed it into the Glee Club and were given a room in “old” Chambers (built 1857).

The post-war years also saw a rise in instrumental groups. Students played mandolins, violins, and flutes mainly. D. Lingle remembered a small orchestra of flutes and violins in the seventies which was “small, but of excellent quality.” He also told the story of a certain Davidson String Quartette which broke curfew in order to perform for some young ladies visiting in a private home in the village in 1887. Miss Shaw particularly liked the “Jug Band” of 1885. The band members assigned one of their fellows to blow a ‘bass’ jug to substitute for the string version.

The students’ musical talent and enthusiasm seem to have come to administrative attention in 1890 when they hired M. Poole, an aspiring minister, to organize and coach the Glee Club. He also taught voice lessons free of charge. The Glee Club performed jointly with the orchestra, and Quips and Cranks has photos of a mandolin and guitar club about the same time. So by the turn of the century, music was a major extracurricular activity.

After Poole left, the music groups continued as they always had under student leadership. Then D. Martin was appointed college president in 1912 and World War I began in 1914. At this time, there are two stories about the beginning of a college band. A 1934 Davidsonian retells J.C. Pfohl’s version. Apparently, the students were very effective even though different years brought fluctuations in talent and enthusiasm. By 1923, they had created a Glee Club Association of instrumentalists and vocalists which went on tours and performed at both religious and college ‘pep’ occasions. It is in this year that they acquired their coach and organizer, M. Carol Baker. She was also director at Queens College and came in once a week. Music thrived. Then Davidson began receiving 5% of the Duke Endowment in 1926, possibly prompting the administration to add a school luxury, the Fine Arts Department, and a full-time music director, M. Ernest Cullum.

Music saw many “firsts” under Cullum. The band received uniforms and the glee club went to state contests and performed on radio shows (WBT). After the New Chambers building was completed in 1930, he taught the first music courses, listed in the catalog under “Fine Arts.” He set up a music library in Shearer Hall which contained phonograph records and “recordings for the Duo-art reproducing piano.” Mu Beta Psi, the music honor fraternity, got its start around 1930. Then Pfohl came in 1933 and took over where Cullum stopped.

Undoubtedly, the enthusiasm of Pfohl was one of the biggest contributing factors to music at Davidson. He was only twenty when he came from Michigan. Just like Cullum, he got new uniforms for the band, took the group on tours, and set them up on radio shows with WBT, WSOC, and CBS. He also got the music “listeners” involved by setting up a Concert Series and a Davidson Fine Arts Festival. He created a very fine band which roused school spirit on the football field. It later branched off into ROTC, football, and other functions. Plans for an orchestra developed slowly, but by 1940 he had a little symphony orchestra in the college. Clearly, he made a good impression on the faculty. The year after he came, the catalog listed music appreciation courses. A Phi Mu Alpha Chapter began in 1940, and in 1941, the first Davidson student received a B.S. in Music.

However, 1941 was also the year the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. Quips and Cranks editions are very skinny and music activities were curbed until after 1945.

By 1946, music activities had scant numbers and enthusiasm. Earl Berg changed the Glee Club's name to Male Chorus and tours resumed. The Football Band under Pfohl grew to seventy-two members and also began touring again. One year, they went with the team as far as Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida.

In 1952, direction of the music department went to Donald Plott, who was the Male Chorus director then. John Satterfield took over the band. The department continued to grow and strengthen. By 1959, Davidson offered the first music scholarship. One year later, the Cunningham Fine Arts Center was completed. Since then there have been an increasing number of professors of music. With the advent of co-education, new groups such as the Madrigal Singers in 1975 and the Women’s Chorus of 1976 have expanded the music offerings.

In summary, what began as just a social and extracurricular activity has grown in status to that of an academic pursuit and an extracurricular outlet. Looking back, the most positive influences seem to be WWI, after which the government furnished band instruments; the Duke Endowment and subsequently M. Cullum; certainly J.C. Pfohl with all his energy; and the construction of the Cunningham Fine Arts Center, representing a more permanent commitment.

By Joan Redding ’82.