Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

6—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

Sports, IMAC

By George Murrell

Hi! My name is George Murrell, and I’m your new IMAC reporter. Having the weighty responsibility of reporting IMAC, I
thought that I should at least find out what this acronym actually stands for. I’m sure that many of you
don’t know either. Well, for the record, IMAC means Intramural Athletic Council. But it may surprise you to know that
no such council by this title currently exists at Davidson. Where then does the term come from? According to Intramural
Director Sterling Martin, the council was disbanded in the late '60s. Until then the council consisted of representatives from the
12 fraternity teams and a sole independent team. About 85 percent of the student body at this time were members
of fraternities. The one independent team consisted of people who either weren’t interested in a fraternity or—more likely—had been blackballed
from fraternity membership.

IMAC was taken with infinitely more seriousness under this system than it is today. A very precise point system was
used to determine a yearly champion, to whom a trophy was awarded. The championship was a highly contested honor which
the Phi Delts usually won. In fact, the Delts won the championship for 14 straight years until the now-defunct Kappa
Sigs won in 1966. The point system was so complex and the competition so heated that it took the arbitration
of a faculty parliamentarian to dethrone the Delts. The major downfall of the old system was that since winning was
the only concern, participation was low. Only the best athletes got to play for their teams. Students might have gone
through their first two or three years at Davidson without ever getting the opportunity to play. Martin and other members
of the administration saw a need for a change, so in the late '60s the present system was incorporated.

As for the future of IMAC at Davidson, there are several possibilities: a revised system of interfraternity competition that would
be integrated into the existing one, C league competition that would offer even greater participation, and a new intramural athletic
council which would relieve the heavy workload of running IMAC activities currently handled by one student representative.

By the way, my personal polling firm of Barron, Bayles, and Mack, P.A. renders the following Top Ten:
1. Cool Breeze
2. Fido
3. True Grits
4. We’re Pathetic
5. Phi Delt
6. Max Relax
7. Takes All Kinds
8. Turnovers the Culprit
9. Losses Outshine Stellar Play by Frankhouser
10. B. League Hackers of Coming East

Turnovers the culprit

Losses outshine stellar play by Frankhouser

By DEBBIE CARLTON
Staff Writer

Turnovers: a disease affecting the nerve center of the women’s basketball team. Side effects include a 1-11 record, suicides in
practice, and frustration. The total number of turnovers committed in the past three games, 83, shows the seriousness of the
team’s condition. Davidson committed 22 turnovers against Methodist in an 83-77 loss. Even the 27 points by Mike Frankhouser did
not provide a cure for bad passing and careless mistakes. The Cats led for most of the game but foul
trouble complicated the condition with Carol Heppner, Jeanne Womack, and Mike Frankhouser on the bench for the last four minutes
of play.

The game against St. Andrews was further proof of the severity of the affliction with 31 turnovers committed in a
65-59 loss. The depth of St. Andrews enabled them to keep a fresh team on the court by substituting five
players every few minutes. Frankhouser had 22 points followed by Jeanne.Womack with 14. Rebounding totals were low in both games.
The two-game road trip was important for group therapy. Most players try to keep high spirits and positive attitudes through
fun and games off the court. Freshmen ballplayers Debbie Hays, Nancy Bondurant, Harriet Holshuijsen, and Laura Hills sewed the team
together with an amusing prank between games. Barbara Hoopes says, “the weekend trip brought the team closer than ever.” The
superb defensive play against N.C.-Wesleyan was encouraging, even though the Bishops converted 30 Davidson turnovers into points with fast-break plays.
The Cats came within 3 points of tying the game in the second half, coming from a 9-point deficit at
the end of the first period. The chance was lost on a turnover. The Cats have not been aggressive under
the basket, especially on offensive rebounds. The solid Bishop players were not adverse to applying physical force to intimidate the
Cats. Mike Frankhouser drilled in 17 points followed by 11 by Kirby Owen.

Sports Scripts

Southern Conference Basketball Player of the Week honors went to Rich DiBenedetto last week. Richie, the Davidson junior forward, picked
up 34 points on 76 percent shooting from the field, and 27 rebounds in leading the ‘Cats to a pair
of league wins. In the 73-72 decision over Furman, DiBenedetto was 10-of-11 from the field and pulled in 15 rebounds.
The home court has been very favorable to Southern Conference basketball teams this year. The home team’s success rate, in
30 conference games, is 24 victories or 80 percent. At one point last week, the rate was 22-of-26 for an
incredible 84.6 percent. Nine of the home wins have been by margins of six points or less. The most formidable
opponent at home has been Bobby Cremins’ Appalachian teams, who in the last five and a half years have won
57 of 65 home games.

Spend the summer in New England

Camp Becket boys’ camp in the mountains of western Massachusetts has openings for college students, teachers, and coaches to serve
as cabin counselors and program specialists in its summer program. Activities include hiking, sailing, swimming, canoeing, athletics, crafts, and dramatics.
Also openings for nurses (RN). For application contact: Lloyd Griffith, State YMCA, 6 St. James Ave., Boston, MA 02116 (617)
426-8802. On-campus interviews in February.

Cats lost 65-60. The well-drilled Frankhouser says, “We're still very competitive and by no means have we given up.” Captain
Kirby Owen is confident that a cure will be found in the latter part of the season. Practices have been
tough for the Cats but, they say they have a positive outlook. The team must look with patience toward the
remaining eight games to improve their team play and season record. Sophomore Mitzi Short states, “A lot of teams are
going to be in trouble the next time around.”

LISTEN WHEN YOU CALL PLANNED PARENTHOOD

“Everyone's concerned about confidentiality when they get birth control. At Planned Parenthood, everything you say here stays here. If you
think you need protection, call me before.” Sandra Gaddy, Counselor. Information on birth control, V.D., prenatal care, and adoption at
no cost.

FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT CALL 377-0841 MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:00-6:00 P.M.

Planned Parenthood
951 S. Independence at McDowell
Charlotte, N.C. 28202

COME TO PLANNED PARENTHOOD BEFORE
