HTS RO HE ee EE

January 23, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

Experience helps students

By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Correspondent

Have you ever thought about canning fish in Alaska? Or drilling for oil in the Gulf of Mexico? Or building a church in Appalachia? Students have done all three with the help of the Office of Experiential Programs and Life-Work Planning.

Life after Davidson is a constant concern of students. Liberal arts colleges like Davidson tend to ignore the vocational aspects of our education. However, the Office of Experiential Programs exists to complement our formal education with placements, career planning, and experiential programs.

Director Ken Woods and assistant Suzie Sommers said they prefer to avoid the “meat-market” situation in which students are shuffled from one interviewer to another in an effort to “sell the product.” Admittedly, there is no glut of prospective employers on campus at any one time. Wood pointed out that many businesses overlook Davidson because students lack technical, accounting, and computer skills. The Office promotes instead a combination of self-knowledge and experience, hoping to get students acquainted with fields that interest them. According to Wood, “Contacts are the name of the game.”

The Office also offers traditional career awareness strategies. Career path seminars, which bring recent graduates back to talk about their jobs, and seminars in Charlotte with people in management positions are integrated with resume and job-hunt workshops, graduate school presentations, and interviews with business representatives.

These activities are successful for what they are designed to do, but Wood believes there is no easy answer to the question, “Where is my niche in the world?” Some students believe that “to be mature you have to know what you want to do.” To assist students with these questions, the Office designs Life-Work Planning Workshops. In these, students explore their skills and values through individual and group exercises. Freshmen and sophomores are especially urged to participate.

Ken Wood

But what about those fish we were going to can? For the student with a special career interest—most less exotic than canning fish—there are Experiential and Extern programs during the spring and summer break. Wood said the program is 90 percent effective in placing students in their desired situation.

By offering students the opportunity to explore their interests early, Wood hopes to equip them to pursue their own job, making senior placement “pretty much a hands-off affair.” Davidson has a problem, Wood noted, because its climate does not give sufficient priority to finding out about oneself. “Many students erroneously feel that a grade in a class is more important than their life,” he said.

The Office receives some criticism for being idealistic and not sufficiently involved with senior placement. Wood, however, said he wants to help students realize that they can be the principal force in placing themselves.

Dates for upcoming events at the Office are:
Deadline for spring break extern application: Friday, Jan. 23.
Job-hunt seminars: Wednesdays, Jan. 28 through Feb. 11.
Life-Work Planning Workshop: first five weeks of spring term. This one is geared to freshmen and sophomores.

Film Review
NICK GRAHAM

One of the greatest pleasures of your film critic's undergraduate days across the Atlantic—in a city served by commercial cinemas, an Arts house, and innumerable film societies—was the experience of spending whole weeks circulating among matinee and evening showings at theVarious cinemas, never seeing the same film twice. For those of you who were among the many foolish enough to miss *The Ruling Class* in Love on Tuesday, there is still time to gain your fix of cinematic excellence, as the following schedule devised for the next seven days shows. Those of you with cars, or friends aspiring to be chauffeurs, will find that the next week should be a rich time for the budding cinephile.

Tonight (Thursday) presents the rare chance of seeing Jean Cocteau’s early masterpiece *Orphée*. Shown in Perkins at 7:30 p.m., it’s free, and the first of a series of classics of the French cinema. Those of you with wheels have the difficult choice of going into Charlotte instead to see a double-bill of films by German director Werner Herzog at the Visulite. *Woyzeck* and *Aguirre, The Wrath of God* both star Klaus (Nosferatu) Kinski and are highly praised. The former is a screen adaptation of Büchner’s innovative 19th-century drama; *Aguirre* is an apocalyptic vision of a group of conquistadores penetrating to the heart of darkness in the New World.

On Friday, the Pop Films Committee, under the coruscating regis of celluloid mogul Tim Newcomb, presents a double-bill of comedy. *Start the Revolution Without Me* features Gene Wilder in the Reign of Terror, and *The Twelve Chairs* is a Mel Brooks funny centered around a jewel-chase. In Love at 8 and 10, respectively.

The weekend presents another chance to see Kubrick’s *2001: A Space Odyssey* at the Visulite. Too bad they were scooped by our very own Fine Films last term. It’s still worth it, of course, for a glimpse of Leonard (Reggie Perrin) Rossiter as the Russian scientist. On the 23rd and 24th (Friday and Saturday) at 7:00 and 9:45 p.m.

Over the next few days, the hard-working cinephile can take a rest, or alternatively take himself off to one of the commercial-circuit houses in Charlotte still showing *The Elephant Man*, an entrancing investigation into the dangers of voyeurism—and much else besides. John Hurt is magnificent as the degraded star of a Victorian freak-show. If anybody out there still hasn’t seen it, he should be consulting the cinema listings in local papers by now.

Pausing to refresh him (or her)self with a night or two hard at work in the library, the Davidson film-watcher is then recommended to reserve Wednesday evening for *Forbidden Planet*. The Fine Films Committee’s latest flirtation with science fiction, this all-too-rarely seen classic of the genre is showing in Love at 8:00 p.m. Have a good week.

---

**Mellow Mann plays Midwinters**

By NEIL SONDOV  
Staff Correspondent

Herbie Mann, renowned jazz flutist, will perform at the Midwinters concert on Friday, Jan. 30. Herbie Mann will be accompanied by his band The Flute and Percussion Theatre, made up of flute, bass, and a wide variety of percussion instruments.

Over the past twenty years, Mann has recorded fifty albums, ranging in style from Latin to Middle Eastern to Memphis funk. Mann even ventured into disco on the advice of his former sponsor, Atlantic Records. Last year Mann and Atlantic parted ways, and he and The Flute and Percussion Theatre have been on tour since. Mann’s recent concerts have won him praise. A New Orleans critic recently referred to one of Mann’s concerts as “a lesson in the essence of jazz improvisation.”

Union Concert Chairman Dana Bolton said, “We always try to get a mellow act for Midwinters and leave the harder stuff for the fall and spring. We're really happy to have gotten Herbie Mann.”

Tickets for the 8 p.m. performance go on sale Wednesday, Jan. 21. The price for students and faculty is $3.00 in advance and $5.00 on the day of the show. The cost for the general public is $6.00. Tickets may be picked up Monday through Friday at the Union Ticket Office from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.