January 30, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

N.C. to end ‘no deposit/no return’?

By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

This February, the North Carolina legislature will consider a bill proposing that all beverage containers sold in the state be returnable and carry a five-cent deposit. The bill would allow all types of beverage containers except those with detachable pull-tabs to be sold. The North Carolina Coalition for Beverage Deposits (CBD), a citizen group, is the major proponent of the bill. Beer brewers and distributors and soft drink companies are the bill’s major opponents.

According to the CBD, seven states—Connecticut, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Oregon, South Dakota, and Vermont—have beverage container laws. Rob Barnett, sales operations manager for Bealer Wholesale Inc., the local distributor of Anheuser-Busch beers, said that the North Carolina legislature has rejected a beverage container law four times before, in 1973, 1975, 1977, and 1979. Barnett also pointed out that all 50 states have considered beverage container laws, and that 43 states have rejected them.

The CBD claims that roadside litter in North Carolina will be significantly reduced if the bill is passed. A 1979 study showed that roadside litter in Michigan decreased by 40 percent the first year that state’s beverage container law was in effect. A summary of a study on the effects of the Vermont beverage container law reports “virtual elimination of roadside litter, with a 56.6 percent reduction in state effort for litter pick up.” Barnett’s figures showed that Oregon’s roadside litter decreased by only ten percent after that state adopted its beverage container law, and that most of the decrease was due to increased state clean-up operations. Barnett said that current recycling programs are very effective in reducing litter, and that they will become even more effective in the future. Reynolds Aluminum Company now recycles 67 percent of its aluminum cans nationwide. He said this is comparable to recycling rates in states that have beverage container laws.

According to Barnett, the U.S. Brewers Association’s “Keep America Beautiful” campaign is aimed at educating consumers about recycling and making recycling centers available. He further mentioned that target recycling centers are being set up by North Carolina brewers in Greensboro and in Guilford County.

The CBD’s “Deposit Legislation Fact Sheet” claims that “Enough energy to heat and cool 50,000 homes could be saved each year if North Carolina adopted deposit legislation.” The fact sheet supports this claim by saying, “Twenty aluminum cans can be recycled with the energy needed to make one from scratch.” Barnett disagreed that a beverage container law would save energy. He pointed out that it takes five times more water to wash and clean a used bottle than it does to wash a new, nonreturnable bottle. He said that the distribution system would use twice as much gasoline since delivery trucks would have to make a greater number of trips.

The CBD cites a 1975 study that showed that a beverage container law would result in a net increase of 600 jobs in North Carolina. Their more recent literature claims that North Carolina will gain 1050 jobs if the law is passed. Barnett conceded that jobs would be produced by a beverage container law. He speculated that his firm would need to double its present personnel, but he questioned the value of the jobs that would be created.

The CBD says, “Assuming that conversion costs are spread over four years, the average price per six-pack of beer or soft drink is expected to decline by about one-half cent.” According to the Vermont summary, the state’s law resulted in “substantial savings to consumers who purchase beverages in refillable containers which have been made available as a result of the deposit law. These savings may be conservatively estimated at $60 per year for the typical family using refillables.” Barnett’s figures showed that in Michigan the price of a six-pack of beer, adjusted for inflation and not including the deposit, rose 36 cents after the beverage container law was passed, and that the price of a six-pack of soft drinks rose 30 cents. He added that prices would likely rise in North Carolina if a beverage container law was passed because of the increased costs in the distribution system due to more employees and increased fuel consumption.

Barnett said the increased cost of beverages and the inconvenience of returning containers would likely cause many citizens of the 41 North Carolina counties bordering other states to cross the state border to buy beverages. Citizens in states with beverage container laws have done so, he said. Consequently, he believes North Carolina retailers and distributors would be hurt if the law passes, and the state would lose revenue from lost excise and sales taxes.

The CBD said, “Oregon’s beverage-related revenues did not decline and with proper planning neither will North Carolina’s.” The CBD adds that the new jobs created by the law will create new income and sales tax revenue for the state. The Vermont report summary says that after Vermont passed...its beverage container law, it experienced "sizeable increases in beverage sales, with positive impact on state revenue and the economy." The report added, "While the increase may not be directly attributable to the deposit law, the figures clearly show that the law has not had a negative effect."

Ruth Pittard of the Audio-Visual Office and the Y Environmental Block had a local campaign to raise support for the bill. They urge people to write to Governor Hunt, Lieutenant Governor Green, and the Mecklenburg County congressmen. The address is:

The Honorable State Legislative Building Raleigh, North Carolina 27611

Donations to the CBD may be mailed to:

Coalition for Beverage Deposits P.O. Box 1159 Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102

The Davidson Town Council has passed a resolution favoring the bill every time it has come up in the past, according to Pittard.

Watson candidates aspire to educational adventures around the globe

By PETE GULYN Staff Correspondent

What are you doing after graduation? If you had the chance to travel anywhere in the world and to do almost anything you wanted for one year, all expenses paid, would you go for it? That chance is the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship. Any senior who wants to spend his first year out of school abroad, studying and traveling independently, is eligible. The Watson Foundation seeks students with unusual potential, character, maturity, creativity, and a sense of leadership.

This year’s list of Davidson applicants has already been decided. Hugh Crenshaw, Martin McCoy, Christiane Moussalli, and Newman Yeilding will be notified of their status in April. Although the application deadline for next year’s fellowship is in October, it is not too early to think about applying now. This is because submitting a detailed, written proposal on a special academic interest is an essential prerequisite. This year’s applicants have offered several colorful proposals.

Hugh Crenshaw, for example, proposes to spend a year in the southwest Pacific studying coral reef ecology. He chose New Guinea, The Hawaiian Eniwetok Atoll, and the Great Barrier Reef off the Australian coast as representative of the three major types of reef formations, hoping to compare their concentrations of zooplankton.

Martin McCoy would like to survey the social and cultural factors of Japan’s economic miracle. Its transformation from a feudal kingdom in the 19th century to the third largest economic power in the world today amazes McCoy. As he sees it, the Japanese capacity for adapting to widely changing social conditions, their unique educational system, and their industrial labor policies relate to their public growth. Surveys, questionnaires, and interviews of school children, management, employees, and other segments of the population would be used to test varying hypotheses. McCoy wants to find the main ingredients for an Oriental society’s success. Since McCoy does not speak Japanese, he might enroll in a college or live with a Japanese family for the first few months. He has traveled widely on four continents, but never in the Orient. As an economics major planning to enter business school, he views human relations as the key to successful management. Although the Watson Foundation requires only a summary of his activities at the end of the year abroad, McCoy hopes to make a larger, more formal contribution to his field.

Christiane Moussalli proposes to study the Christian minority in Egypt, focusing, in her words, on the Christians’ "perception of their religious and national identity among the Moslem people." Her interest centers on Cairo and Alexandria. She would be aided by contacts she has at the American University in Cairo and with the Christian clergy there. Moussalli was born in Cairo of Christian parents who returned to the States after Egyptian industries were socialized in 1961. She has had a long-time interest in Egyptian internal affairs and keeps abreast of events through the Egyptian press. She noted a lack of written material on the thousand-year-old Christian population, due in part to conflicts between the Arabs and Jews. Although she is a history major, Moussalli plans a sociological approach to how a minority functions in Egypt. A central problem in the Islamic Code, which governs Egypt's majority, is that its commandments apply only to other Moslems. This leaves a moral void in Christian-Moslem relations. The recent world resurgence of Moslem identity adds to the dilemma, Moussalli said.

Newman Yeilding’s project involves examining the health care systems of four African nations. It would be conducted with the help of medical missionaries. Cultural considerations prompted Yeilding to choose Tanzania, Kenya, Zaire, and Nigeria because they embody widely diverging ideals. Different levels of socialization, industrialization, and urbanization influence the medical practices there. Newman plans to work in a mission after medical school. His proposal would prepare him for work in a mission after internship.

Last year Carol Robinson ‘80 won a Watson fellowship. Robinson is now in Munich studying neuropsychology. Dean of Students Will Terry, the College’s advisor for the Fellowship, urges interested juniors to apply for next year’s fellowships before the October deadline.