Open Office

College President Sam Spencer will have an open office each Thursday at 10:30 am. All students are welcome to come
to ask questions and to meet Dr. Spencer.

New Piano

The music department has a new Steinway Concert Grand Piano. The Class of 1981 and Mr. W. K. Forbes '28
contributed the piano in memory of Dr. Donald Plott.

Professor James Swisher gave a dedicatory recital on Friday, 11 September in Hodson Hall. The recital included a composition, “Touch
and Go: A Flourish for Piano,” written particularly for the recital by Music Professor Wilmer Welsh.

SGA Elections

Elections for SGA senators will be on Tuesday, September 9.

Freshmen will elect three class senators. Those running are: Craig Detweller, Carlton Clinkscales, Rod Hoeman, Kelly Sundberg, Alva Moore, and
Steve Byers. Also, Laura Taft, Warren Gould, Jeffrey McEwen, Tim McGaughery, and Steve MacMillan.

Those running for the two off-campus positions are Melissa McKeithen, Scott Eblen, and Deepak Sawhney.

Residents in Little dorm will elect either Steve Laurence or Shannon Anderson, and either Bryan Sloan, Joe Ford, Ken Howarth,
or George Ibrahim will represent Watts.

Carole Jolly, Kay Boyd, Anne Hurt, and Florence Hart are running for the Cannon position. Sentelle residents will elect either
Hunter Monroe, Tom Cartee, Todd Beck, Chuck Lifford, or Mark Oldenburg.

Connie Terry or Warner Hall will represent Duke dorm. Those running for Richardson Dorm senator are Kerry Howbrook, Meg Surrat,
Elizabeth White, and Suzy Hohman.

Irvin residents will elect either Hill Stockton, Anne Rollins, or Lanier Brown. Marshall Dent, Roy Fuller, J. C. Faulkner, Hall
Barnett, Burt Taylor, Paul Baynard, and Joe Calvin are running for the Knox position.

Belk freshmen will elect two senators. Those running are Charles Tiches, Jim Kemper, Scott Brady, Joe Langley, Jim Reaves, Todd
Sachtjer, and Will Whitaker. Upperclass Belk residents will elect either Lee McCormick, Boe Narer, Rob Spaugh, or Rob Singleton.

Students can vote from 9 am to 3 pm in Chambers or at the Post Office.

Davidson Gets New Computers

The staff of the computer center and the Prime Computer Corporation are installing two new computer systems. The systems will
provide new computing resources for students, faculty, and administrative staff.

The computer center will begin installation of the Prime 750 on September 21. The new computer center, located in the
old doctors’ offices on Railroad Street, and a terminal room in Chambers’ south basement will house the terminals and the
system. System Manager ribs eco bir’ will join in.

Opening Volleyball Class Cancelled

The Physical Education Department has cancelled the beginning volleyball course. It will offer an advanced volleyball course for experienced volleyball
players in its place.

According to Physical Education Secretary Laura Moore, the new advanced course will offer more practice time for the new women’s
and men’s volleyball clubs.

Pat Miller and Lou Ortmayer will be working with the class.

Garden Club Sale on Saturday

The Davidson Garden Club will sponsor a sale on Saturday, 26 September featuring plants, baked goods, hand crafts, and “attic
treasures.”

The club is celebrating its twenty-fifth anniversary and will give the twenty-fifth customer a free hanging fern.

The sale is from 9 am to 1 pm on the Village Green. The club will use the proceeds for
donations to various wildflower groups and for projects such as the beautification of the lawn at the fertilizer plant on
Main Street.

New Breakfast Hours

The Commons has changed its breakfast hours. Meal card holders will be able to get breakfast anytime between 7 am
and 10:30 am. Breakfast hours previously ended at 8:45 am.

Those students without meal cards wishing to purchase a continental breakfast may do so from 8:45 — 10:30 am. The
cost is $1.

The new hours will be in effect starting Monday and only apply on weekdays. The weekend schedule stays the same.

Accident on Concord Road

A pick-up swerving to avoid another car ran into a student’s parked car beside the Union on Wednesday. Another student’s
car was also damaged in the incident.

According to Davidson City Police Chief R.H. Mills, the right front wheel of the city-owned pick-up “grabbed” when driver Sam
Whitley tried to avoid hitting Davidson senior Newton Allen who was pulling out of a private drive.

Whitley hit John Lawrey’s 1977 Toyota causing it to hit a 1980 Audi owned by Sophomore Joe Calvin. No one
was injured in the incident, but Chief Mills estimated about $2300 in damages to the three vehicles.

Chief Mills filed no charges because there was “no obvious violation.”

New Name for Careers Office

The Office for Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning has changed its name to the Careers Office.

The Careers Office has also made necessary program modifications. The functions of the office are 1) to assist students with
Career Exploration, 2) to assist students with Experiential Learning, and 3) to assist students with Placement.

Interested students should contact Ken Wood in the Guidance Department located in the basement of the Union.

Tim Whalen News Editor

John Imen Editor, Frances Palmer Asst. News Editor

Cairns Executive Editor

Roy Fuller Features Editor

Anne Goodwin Features Editor

Newton Allen Asst. Features Editor

Earl Wooten Asst. Features Editor

Steve Soud Sports Editor

Danny Armistead World View Editor

James Barrat Opinions, Jeff Mann Managing Editor

James Moore Asst. Managing Editor

Laurie Soper Production Assistant

Lisa Buckley Head Compositor

Bill Appleton Art Editor

Jim Rumley Staff Artist

Paul Schulz Staff Artist

Todd Swofford Staff Artist

Lucy Everett Calendar Editor

David Graybeal Advertising Manager

Scot Myers Supervising Editor

Eric Long Photography Editor

Mark Sheffield Photo Production
