Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Guide to New Courses at Davidson

At long last, the College registrar has responded to Davidson students’ moans and groans concerning the periodic dilemma of finding room in three acceptable courses. Registrar and Computer Lord Richard Burts has recently announced the addition of 20 new courses to the curriculum for the 1981-82 school year. “The addition of these new courses, along with a new Davidson-Broughton student exchange program, should greatly increase the chances for a satisfying registration,” Burts said. A list of the new courses includes the following:

Art

Art 207 Introductory Survey
Easy multiple-choice survey questions concerning your basic attitudes towards art. For example, “Do you like to draw? Yes No(). Do you like the color ‘yellow’? Yes() No(). Do you like to eat charcoal? Yes() No().”

Art 403 Non-basic Studio
For the unique and restless artists who are weary of drawing in the drab confines of the basic studios.

Biology

Bio 24 Semi-edible wild things
Learning to eat at Slater; includes learning to identify the four basic food groups.

Bio 601 Genetics and Davidson campus dogs
Learning the inner works that allow Davidson canine chromosomes to produce dogs of unusual colors as well as dogs with words in their hair.

Economics

Eco 003 Getting a JOB with a Liberal Arts Education
This course does NOT exist.

English

Eng 10 Literature of the Stalls
A comprehensive study of all the poems, jokes, and contests written on the walls of Davidson bathrooms.

Eng 301 English Lit. to Milton
Read the private letters, notes, and messages sent to this great author.

Eng 302 English Lit. Milton to Chaucer
Milton’s replies to his long-dead writing comrade.

Eng 251 Tudor and Stuart England
A study of the popular England brothers and their rise to circus fame.

History

His 140 Basketball coaches from Driesell to Biedenbach
His 141 Basketball coaches from Biedenbach to Hussey

Mathematics

Arithmetic 021 Union Math
Learning a variation of the “new math” as practiced by persons working in the Union Snack Bar.

Physical Education

Ped 007 P.E. of the Laundry or Hammer swinging
Class meets daily at 10:00 am to smash buttons on all shirts in the laundry.

Ped 008 Wind walking or P.E. of the Laundry II
Learning how to successfully confront the Davidson version of the Ford wind tunnel, the front door of the laundry.

Physics

Phy 037 Basic Intensive Asteroids
Designed to teach students to earn their first extra-ship, this course introduces the basic rudiments of thrusting and correct use of hyperspace for safe re-entry. Practice in the Asteroids Lab (Belk Lobby) is an integral part of the course. Satisfies area requirement in science, and, when played in Spanish, German or French, satisfies language requirement for graduation.

Phy 039 Advanced Asteroids
Asteroids in Three Dimensions. Actual Helium-Neon Lasers from the Physics lab will be used, in conjunction with chunks of solid nuclear waste as asteroids. Not open to students planning to live beyond the exam. Pre-requisite: Philosophy 112, Physics 023 and permission of your mother.

Religion

Rel 141 Old Testament Buddies
A comprehensive look at such Old Testament pals as David and Jonathan, Adam and Eve, and so forth.

Rel 142 Old Testament Survey
Study the original petition used by Moses in trying to free his people from slavery. Analyze such questions as “Do you think the Pharaoh should let my people go? Yes() No(). Would it bother you to have a million frogs or locusts living in your house? Yes() No(). Do you like sores all over your body? Yes() No().”

Coach de Jour

Coach de Jour with all the trimmings.
You'll be the center of attention when you serve this delightful dish, perfect for those late basketball season dinner parties. Cook Jean Bingspam and assistant cook Tom Chair told us, “It’s just finger ’n toe lickin’ good. So good you'll want to make it again real soon.”

Ingredients:
One pot (with tight-fitting lid)
$392,056 (in large bills)
Three gallons brine
One basketball team
Sauerkraut (2-4 pounds)
One coach (preferably the basketball variety—but you can use whatever is in season)
One can corn
Seasonings to taste

Instructions:
Place $392,056 and brine in pot, heat until melted. Add the team and bring to loud boil, lifting lid at irregular intervals. When volume of boil becomes audible to administrators 50 feet away, add sauerkraut. Heat over a medium flame for 15 minutes. (At this stage the broth is ready to be sampled by members of the media)

Pluck a fresh, raw coach. Quickly pop coach in the pot and immediately add the corn. Keep the lid off, giving the corn and coach exposure to air. Watch coach very carefully, prodding with a fork if it rises above the surface. When coach begins to roll in an agitated manner, remove quickly and discard. Cover pot very tightly. Let stand 2 hours. Season to taste (molasses is particularly effective), and feed it first to next season's team. Make fresh every day; coach de jour does not keep well. Serves 1300.

Events

Day 7. God invents people, including women, folks, non-Westerners, and Blacks.
2000 B.C. First DCF reunion.
6000 B.C. Roy Bumgardner invents the wheel.
450 A.D. The medieval Moral Majority invents the Bible.
1060 A.D. William the Conqueror conquers Connecticut and establishes Williams College the following fall.
1789 French Revolution.
1837 Colonists from Williams College establish Davidson.
1882 William Randolph Hearst discovers yellow journalism in Panama.
1902 Roy Bumgardner, Jr. invents the hubcap.
1923 Hubert Girkschtaller invents the fig newton.
1969 Davidson admits the existence of Blacks.
1971 Davidson admits the existence of women.
1981 TCPZ discovers woman.
1984 Banned in Iredell County.
1987 This year does not happen.
2000 End of the world.

---