Guns or Butter? | Guns or butter; should we spend our money on our defense or should we invest in
our economy? This has been a persistent question throughout our history. With the advent of the Reagan Administration, it resurfaces
with new vehemence in light of his budget-cutting and tough-talk policies. Before we jump to supply answers to this question,
we must probe deeper. What will spending on military hardware do for our economy? When the new defense dollars start
chasing scarce resources needed in the private sector, what will be the consequences? When defense research gets better funding and
subsequently the best minds we can muster, what will happen to our technological superiority that gives us a competitive edge
in the world market?

Furthermore, we must examine the effectiveness of military power. Our difficulties in Vietnam, Angola, Iran, and the Soviet difficulties in
Egypt (from which they were expelled) and in Afghanistan (where they now fight a costly war with ill-equipped rebels) might
suggest that the effectiveness of military power has dwindled. First, we can no longer draw up foreign policy for areas
such as Asia and Latin America as easily as Europe once did in colonial times (The New Yorker, 27 April
1981, pp. 137-139). Now the less-developed nations and even small dissident political groups can draw international attention with new significance.
We now must take into account age-old religious differences before supplying arms to a nation in our bloc. In some
cases, we have found military persuasion of leaders ineffective due to their lack of control over their people, e.g., in
Iran.

Secondly, military technology has changed significantly. The cost of production and training in the use of new weapons systems grows
geometrically. The cost of attracting and training the volunteer army today costs many times what it did in 1945. Less
bang for the buck. No longer can a nation comfortably maintain a strong military and a strong economy at the
same time. Thus, we must decide whether to spend on guns or butter. The articles on this page should help
us see the complexity of the issue and hopefully give us insight into the consequences of our decision.

On the uncoupling of economic power and military power: The United States now lags behind almost every other industrial nation
in the percentage of its national product which is devoted to research and development for the civilian economy. A consequence
of this neglect is the competitive edge now enjoyed by West Germany, Japan, and other smaller nations that can produce
important classes of sophisticated goods for export more cheaply and more efficiently than the United States can. The uncoupling of
economic power and military power is a phenomenon of the past fifteen years. It used to be that the nations
that could afford the largest armies and navies — Britain under Queen Victoria, Germany under the Kaiser — were also
the most dynamic industrial countries; (Czarist Russia, with an enormous military machine and a relatively primitive industrial economy, was always
an anomaly.) In fact, a spectacular army and navy were intended to symbolize great power.LAGS BEHIND EVERY economic power. Only
the richest could afford them. But in our time, a nation with a modest military force, at least compared with
either superpower, and a nation with hardly any military force are ascendant economic powers. West Germany and Japan are creating
serious economic problems for the United States by virtue of their competition in the export war to which all the
industrial nations of the West are committed to invest heavily in their civilian production. The Soviet Union, like the United
States, maintains a significant military power, but at an increasing economic sacrifice. As Myron Rush, a professor of government at
Cornell, has noted, the heavy military expenditures are at the expense of future growth. Like the United States, the Soviet
Union has been shortchanging its civilian production machine. For the United States, the consequence has been a slow-growth economy. For
a smaller and weaker economy, the consequence is stagnation.

THE TRADITIONAL DEBATE OVER GUNS AND butter somehow misses the point. The wish to spend scarce resources on schools, health
care, the restoration of decayed cities, and clean air rather than on bombs and tanks is understandable — President Eisenhower
once said that to spend resources on guns and warships when people were going hungry was “theft” — but those
who advocate a shift of investment from military to spending for social services have been silenced by the notion that
protection from enslavement is the most important social service a government can provide. Yet excessive military spending has some of
the same consequences as military defeat; that is, it gives foreign governments more control over our economy.

The decision to invest a trillion and a half dollars in the military rather than in a crash energy-development program
to reduce America’s dependence on foreign oil is a prime example of the way the nation’s vulnerability is increased by
the act of piling up hardware. The hardware cannot produce energy; it consumes energy. Nor can it assure access to
energy; there is no military strategy that can effectively assure the flow of oil through a system vulnerable to sabotage.
Useless military forces preempt investment funds, public and private, that could be used on developing alternative national-security strategies appropriate to
the new century that we are soon to enter.

National security cannot be achieved by a nation unwilling to invest in its own future. By abandoning our schools, our
cities in the Northeast and the Middle West, our small farmers, even our police and firemen, by failing to find
an appropriate industrial base, and by refusing to deal adequately with overwhelming security threats — inflation and resource management —
we are cutting deeply into the sources of national strength. Increasingly, national power comes out of innovative minds rather than
out of the barrels of guns. The nation best able to confront the unprecedented problems of advanced industrial civilization, to
recognize the limits of national power in an interdependent world, and to create a legitimate social order within the confines
of a slow-growth economy is the one that is likely to emerge as No. 1.
