Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

New Faculty

The new faculty consists of (front) Tom Kazee, political science; Stephen Davis, math; (middle) Janet Grigsby, sociology and anthropology; John
Williamson, biology; Michael Howell, history; Vlad Morosan, music; John Engell, English; Jason Thompson, economics; Joe Beatty, philosophy; (back) Monique Guizard,
French; Kathleen Reichs, sociology and anthropology; Linda Frost, German; Christine Vance, French. Not pictured are David Rowe, psychology; Alvin Smith,
psychology (fall term only).

by Anne Goodwin '84

Widenhouse movers wrestled Richards and Bailey houses to opposite sides of Patterson Court at the end of July.

ETC and Fannie and Mable’s.

The new function of the houses is undecided. Dean of Students Will Terry said College President Samuel Spencer will consider
a number of proposals before making a final decision. Possibilities include using the buildings for the counseling center and the
Black Student Coalition, or as language houses. Dean Terry said there is “not enough student-generated interest” to form an eating
house, especially before seeing how the Commons affects existing houses.

Jean Widenhouse of Widenhouse Movers outlined the basic steps in moving the houses:

1) Locate and disconnect the electrical and water lines.
2) Remove the outer brickwork to the level of the chimneys.
3) Knock holes in the sides of the house where the steel beams will be inserted to support the house.
4) Build a steel framework underneath the house.
5) Jack up the house and place it on dollies.
6) Hook up a truck to the dollies.
7) Clear the way.
8) Determine what sort of ground is to be covered.

A particular problem was the tight quarters, Mr. Widenhouse said. At one point, the movers had to take out the
two main load-bearing beams and construct 26 supporting cribs. The movers had to uproot a few trees as well.

The cost to the College has not been settled, since the moving process will not be complete until the brickwork
is replaced.

Friday 18 September 198

---
