‘by Brian Butler ‘84 | E.H. Little’s life is reminiscent of the old Hollywood musical in which the country boy
goes to town and makes good, then sets up Mom and Dad for life. But this story is no fairytale;
it’s sculpted in flesh and blood and years of work. Nor is the story forgettable to us Davidson students who
cram for exams each term in E. H. Little Library — the man’s grandest memorial edifice. Would you like to
hear the old rags to riches story, once again? Well, it all started on a farm near Long Creek...

E.H. Little entered the world wearing nothing, as we all do, on a farm about 15 miles south of Davidson
when Charlotte’s population was only 7000. He was the fifth of twelve children, born to George Washington and Ella Howie
Little. He said that when he was sixteen, “Davidson’s the place where I rode a mule, taking my older brother
Charles to college. My mother wanted her oldest to be a minister and he made it.” (For years Rev. Charles
Little was pastor of Charlotte’s Sharon Presbyterian Church.)

E.H. Little never attended college himself, but left home soon after Charles did to work with J.S. Withers, a Charlotte
grocer and official cotton weigher for Mecklenburg County, earning room, board, and $10 per month. “When I came along, times
were hard, and I had neither the inclination nor the tools to go to college. At sixteen, I left that
mule and went to town.”

“I was determined to make good,” said E.H. Little of his early attitudes, “I always believed in work and that
you could do whatever you were determined to do. I liked to take on tough jobs.”

In 1902, Clarence “Booster” Kuester, head of the Chamber of Commerce, recommended him to the Colgate Company for a sales
position. E.H. Little began selling Octagon soap through the Carolinas from the back of a buggy. By 1906 his sales
record was so impressive that he was named district manager for Colgate in Memphis, Tennessee.

Soon after E.H. Little’s move to Memphis, the heavy orchestral swells enter our musical, as he began to court a
young aristocratic beauty named Suzanne, harking back to those cavaliers of Virginia. Soon the two were taking regular buggy rides
together and getting along famously. According to eyewitness accounts, young E.H. “cut a dashing figure” in those days and had
a “personality that instantly attracted people to him.”

One day in 1910, E.H. Little went to see a Dr. Mitchell about a gloomy cough he had developed. The
doctor told him the cough was the result of an advanced state of tuberculosis. He moved to a center in
Denver's dry climate, thinking he would return in a few months. There he learned that his stay would likely be
for years. E.H. Little’s spirits were crushed, as he told Miss Trezevant in his dreary letters. In one letter he
hinted that he might never return.

For three years E.H. and Suzanne Little lived in the houses of private families or in small apartments. Except for
mealtimes, they spent all their time out on screened-in sleeping porches both summer and winter.winter. “At lunch time we would
eat with the family again, and then go right back out to the porch,” he said. “It didn’t make any
difference what the weather might be. In the wintertime we dressed in fur-lined sleeping slippers, warm caps, and heavy wool
shirts. At night, we’d weigh ourselves down with blankets. Sometimes it got as cold as twenty-five degrees below zero, but
we became accustomed to it.” Twice Mr. Little developed pneumonia, and once appendicitis, but with Mrs. Little’s constant support, he
made it through. “She left me only twice for as long as a half an hour in the entire three
years. Once she went to visit a friend. The other time, she went to Boulder to take a crocheting lesson.”
Mr. Little credited his wife with his achievements. “I wish you would say that without her I wouldn’t have lived
and wouldn’t have achieved whatever success has come to me. She helped me. She was beautiful. She didn’t know anything
about business, but she believed in it and believed in me. She thought I could do anything.”

Finally, after nearly four years of illness, Mr. Little became well and vowed to live to be 100, because “it’s
a nice round figure.” In 1919 he joined the B.J. Johnson Soap Company, then marketing Palmolive soap. In two years
he brought the territory west of Denver to the highest per capita soap sales in the country. For this achievement,
he was named assistant sales manager and moved to New York. Mr. Little’s next big opportunity came in the late
1920s when he was asked to manage the company’s European operations from their beginnings. Mr. Little went to Europe on
European terms. He gave foreign executives top positions. Instead of continuing the widely accepted practice of translating American advertisements into
the native language, he had marketing tailored to local custom and idioms. By 1959, European operations accounted for over half
of Colgate-Palmolive’s total sales.

In 1938, when Colgate and Palmolive merged, Mr. Little was elected president and chief executive officer of the company. At
that time, worldwide sales were $100 million and the profits $782,000 per year. When Mr. Little retired in 1960, sales
had risen to $600 million and profits to $25 million, and his personal salary was among the highest in the
world. “My work seems more like a game to me than anything. I suppose that’s why there has been so
little wear and tear on me personally. I like selling and I like competition,” he said.

He gave Davidson over $2 million through the years. Countless millions went to other institutions as well, but he gave
more to Davidson than to any place else. Why? Dr. Chalmers Davidson remembers that Mr. Little always said, “Davidson is
my college.” Mr. Little explained, “They needed it. I had it, so I gave it to them. I’ve taken care
of my own pretty well. There’s no use hanging on to it.” When Mr. Little gave $600,000 to Queens College
to help solve dormitory security problems, the girls gave him a lock on a plaque with an inscription that read,
“From the 700 girls at Queens, whose doors are never locked to E.H. Little.” “It came too late in my
life,” he remarked.

So that’s the end of our tale.
