THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

College should announce whether or not Slater stays

“You are what you eat,” the posters say. In spite of the hyperbole, this statement does have a point: people
should care about their food. It is natural for students to be concerned about the College’s plans for food service
in the new Commons. Students and the administration share a common interest in this area and should not have to
feel like adversaries. But frustration can lead to hostility. When students do not know whether their suggestions will be taken
seriously, when they are told that, while ARA is the only company presenting a proposal to the College, ARA may
still not be the College food service next year, there arises a sense that the administration does not trust students
enough to inform them about its decisions.

Why the mystery? If the College does plan to consider food services other than ARA, the students can help evaluate
them. If the College has decided not to consider alternatives, students will work with Mr. Goodman, the new food service
director, to make improvements in ARA service. But they should know the reasons for such a decision. After all, it
is students’ well-being, not ARA’s, which is at stake.

The Agenda

College President Samuel Spencer has just returned from a month-long trip away from the College with a prestigious new title
and, we hope, a rejuvenated commitment to solving the College’s problems. Private colleges and universities nationwide are facing difficult times.
Yale has recently resorted to selling a coin from its collection in order to make ends meet. Academicians speak of
cutbacks and firings at institutions from Colorado Women’s College to Duke. Duke, in fact, made a decision in December which
exemplifies the process called “retrenchment,” by which administrators reevaluate the financial feasibility of university programs. The Duke Board of Trustees
voted to eliminate the nursing and education schools and served warning to other programs that they could soon be cut
as well.

Duke’s worries should be of special concern to Davidson, for the fates of two highly-regarded private North Carolina institutions are
likely to be similar. Duke officials pointed out that their investment income is decreasing while costs continue to rise. The
University’s endowment has barely doubled over the past decade. Davidson’s endowment has not increased significantly at all over the same
time period, and, in fact, decreased in constant dollar measurements. Duke officials worry that they will not be able to
pay professors enough to remain competitive with the high-paying, well-financed public universities. Without a top-notch faculty, they note, a private
institution cannot hope to draw students away from less expensive public institutions. Still, the average full professor at Duke makes
about $5000 more than his counterpart at Davidson. Statistical comparisons are debatable, but it is clear that Davidson is facing
serious challenges. If we are to remain a high-quality college—let alone improve—Dr. Spencer must provide strong leadership. The final years
of his presidency will be his most demanding. Among the key long-term problems he must grapple with are:

—Development. Davidson needs to make strides in fundraising. The endowment must be strengthened. Alumni giving, despite last year’s encouraging jump,
remains low. We eagerly await the appointment of a new Director of Development.

—Faculty Salaries. A private college cannot afford to pay as much as a public university, but how far can we
fall behind and still attract the best professors? Last year’s pay raise was the highest ever but Davidson salaries are
still not keeping up with inflation.

—The male/female ratio. As the applicant pool nationwide continues to shrink, how much longer can we maintain a two to
one ratio and still admit well-qualified freshmen? More importantly, how much longer can we—as a Christian college—continue a policy of
blatant sex discrimination? If we are indeed headed towards equal access admissions, we need some sort of timetable.

—Vision for the future. At Fall Convocation, Dr. Spencer spoke of changing Davidson to better prepare students for an interdependent
world. Specifically, he advocated expansion of foreign study programs, more innovative language instruction, and non-Western studies. And he pledged to
lower the student/faculty ratio to make these goals feasible. To what extent are we moving toward these goals? To what
extent is Dr. Spencer going to push us?

Duke Chancellor Kenneth Pye said, “Private universities like Duke are going to survive because they've got the toughness to make
the tough decisions.” We believe that tough, vigorous leadership from Dr. Spencer and the Davidson administration can ensure that Davidson
survives, too.

—Elizabeth Kiss
—John Siman

The Campus Forum

Fire alarms

To the Editors:

It has come to my attention through other students that the fire alarm equipment in the dormitories is being misused
and torn from the walls. I encourage students to have respect for their fellow students by not activating the alarms
without cause and by not pulling them down from the walls. I also urge respect for the maintenance crew that
works very hard to keep the system in repair. Instead of pulling down an alarm to deactivate it, the proper
course of action is to identify the person who pulled the alarm if one suspects a prank, then to move
out of the building. If a persistent alarm disturbs one’sStudying, he should remember that circumstances sometimes prevent the maintenance crew
from turning off the alarms immediately, that he can move elsewhere to study, and that it is surely worth having
the alarms in good working order in case of a real fire. I feel this is a serious matter, as
does the SGA. Evidently, so does the Federal government, because it is a felony to tamper with fire alarms. I
hope student support will help alleviate this problem, so that the scene at the MGM Grand will never be repeated
at Davidson.

Kevin Pressley ’81
SGA Security

Eating Houses

To the Editors:

Despite the attention given to the Commons, the future fate of Richard and Bailey houses has been overlooked. The large
majority of the students seems to be unaware that these houses will be added to Patterson Court only if an
organized interest comes from the student body. The capacity of the new Commons to serve the entire student body has
caused debate concerning the whole Patterson Court system. We see Patterson Court not only as a food service for upperclassmen
but also as a social service that provides a unique interaction among students. The formation of a new eating house
would strengthen the student’s chance to participate in a social atmosphere and activities outside of the college-organized social functions. It
would also add to the diversity within the court by allowing a large number of students currently outside the court
system (i.e., independents) to become active in it. Our interest in the future of these houses has led us to
investigate the details involved in the opening of a new eating house. But we need added student support to carry
out any plan of action! If you are interested, please come to a meeting on Monday, February 2 at 7
p.m. in the Morrison Room in which we will openly discuss the options that have been presented to us and
our own goals.

John McDowell '83
Jean Soracco '82
Ken Wood

To the Editors:

I appreciated Tom Pafford’s article about the Office for Experiential Programs in last week’s Davidsonian. Most of Tom’s points were
made accurately and succinctly, but I wish to make three comments for purposes of clarification.

1) Having completed nine years of full-time higher education and expecting to add more in the future, I want no
one to think that I view experiential learning as more apropos to living fully in our times than are academic
pursuits. I would like my student and professional friends to know that, in my opinion, learning—whether gained by means of
classroom education or out-of-the-classroom experience—is a singular activity most appropriately pursued as one intentionally seeks general competencies for living fully
and usefully.

2) Ideally, the liberal arts assist students in gaining general competencies for life and work as opposed to specific vocational
skills. One among many of these general life competencies is the ability to do the internal and external exploration necessary
to know who one is and how one might make meaningful and useful connections with work. (How could the lack
of such an ability possibly be construed as liberating?) Experiential learning is an important component of liberal learning, especially as
it focuses on the acquisition of general competencies such as the one mentioned above. As such, it is worthy of
being given as much priority by the learner as any other component. Those who give experiential learning the priority it
deserves will never find themselves in a position analogous to meat in a meat market.

3) The delicate question of where our hands are in respect to placement functions is perhaps best addressed by a
look at what they have been doing. Our hands, in large part, have been on the typewriter and on the
telephone as we have diligently sought to increase the quality, quantity, and success of recruiters who come to Davidson to
hire our graduating seniors. This we see as an important part of the work of this office—one significant way, among
many others, to gain fitting employment. Furthermore, placement functions are especially important for those who have chosen to give relatively
low priority to the acquisition of general life competencies through experiential learning. We have never thought of placement as being
a “hands-off” matter for anyone. We do hope, however, that students at every stage of their liberal education will take
full advantage of the many ways in which this college might assist them as they prepare for a full life
and an appropriate job or profession as well.

My thanks to the Davidsonian for the publicity on our office.

Ken Wood, Director
Office for Experiential Programs and Life/Work Planning

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors

JEFF MANN
News Editor

GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO
Sports Editors

DAVID MCCURRY
Manager

JAMES BARRAT, PETER HAIRSTON, JIM CROWE, WARREN LACKEY
Back Editors

JEAN SORACCO, SCOT MYERS
Managers

JACKSON, SCOTT, JEFF DEMPSEY, MARGARET ANNE GOODWIN, MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER,
CARTER VEST, TIM WHALEN, DAVID PRETTYMAN
Assistants

BERNADETTE WALTER, JIM RUMLEY
Production Associates

SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD
Darkroom Technicians

LISA BUCKLEY, BILL APPLETON, ED DAUGHERTY
