April 3, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

(Continued from page 1)
storage and shelf space. The pieces of furniture are held together with velcro. “It took three people pulling on a
piece before it’d give,” Bolding said. Because of the new furniture, students will not be allowed to build their own
lofts.

The dorms are designed to blend with the architectural style of other Davidson buildings. Lamps identical to those throughout the
campus will line the walkways.

Irwin Hall was named for Mrs. William Henry Belk of Charlotte. Knox was named for Peter Knox ’32 of Thomson,
Georgia.

Irwin Hall was named for Mrs. Belk because the Belk Foundation contributed $200,000 toward its cost. The Foundation is headed
by her son Irwin Belk, ’45, also of Charlotte. Belk Dorm was built as a memorial to her husband in
the 1950s.

Knox contributed bricks for both of the new dorms. He also contributed approximately $250,000.

Acting Vice President for Development Julius Melton expressed appreciation to donors who helped underwrite the cost of the dormitories. “If
they were financed as one would a commercial building, for instance an apartment house or hotel, we would have to
set our rents at a much, much higher figure than they will be next year,” he said.

(Continued from page 1)

“Permission is granted by seniority,” Bolding said. “Sophomores who want to live off campus should participate in the room lottery
and exchange their room later with someone who wants it.”

Bolding emphasized that Davidson is a ‘residential’ school. He estimates that 1100 of the College’s 1325 students will live on
campus next year.

“We are taking away some perimeter housing, but decreasing the density in the dorms,” Bolding said.

Thompson House, Park Place, the Depot Street apartments, and McConnell Apartment will house faculty members next year. They now house
a total of 33 students. The College may also stop leasing Vinson House, according to Business Manager Bob Currie. Eight
students now live in the house.

There will be more single rooms on campus, Bolding said. Thirteen women’s singles and 35 men’s singles will be available.
This year there are four women’s singles and 32 men’s singles.

Patterson Court eating houses will provide housing for about ten additional students, Bolding added.

Students who do not get rooms in the lottery are put on a waiting list. “Last year fifty-five students were
on the waiting list and we found some kind of roof for everybody,” Bolding said.

Although the College does not handle off-campus accommodations, other than perimeter houses, the housing office does compile a list of
professors and other local residents who rent to students. “We aren’t sure of the exact number for next year yet,”
Bolding said.

Students should apply for perimeter housing by 8:30 a.m., April 9.

(Continued from page 1)

“Conversant in a language, there are limits to what one can do without sending people to the country where the
language is spoken.”

“Perceiving inadequacies in the three-term system does not establish a prima facie case for a four-term requirement.”

“I don’t think the benefits would outweigh the disadvantages,” Epes added. “I wonder how many benefits would accrue when there
is significant resistance to all this.”

While there is no chance of reviving the fourth-term requirement and other proposals this year, a study of the college’s
language departments by outside examiners slated for next fall could act as a catalyst for change.

A group of examiners will spend several days on campus evaluating the French, German, and French departments. The study is
funded by a grant from the Mellon Foundation. The evaluators will suggest improvements in the language program.

Kemp said that while the study could have been conducted this spring, the administration decided to postpone it until the
fall, when a wider variety of language courses will be taught and more students enrolled.

One idea that enjoys widespread support among faculty members is the use of language houses to supplement classroom discussion.

“Language houses could go a long way toward strengthening our programs,” Kemp said.

“Pomona College in California, for example, has a dormitory devoted entirely to language students. There is a language lab within
the building and a number of foreign students there to help students immerse themselves in a language. It’s an exciting
idea.”

Singerman agreed. “Language houses are a very effective way of creating enthusiasm among students.”

Take a break!

Beach it at the King George Motel in Ocean Drive. Low Spring Break rates start at $14. 803/249-2721 for reservations.

In the dark

The pressure!
My God! I can’t take it!

Hang on, man!

No! I’m gonna die!

Scot Myers ’84
