After struggling last year, the Lady Cats are vastly improved. This year’s Wildcat team is looking optimistically towards their upcoming season. The 81-82 edition of the team is much improved over the 80-81 team. Not having to adjust to a new coach and a new system this year (Coach Mayes is back as head coach, with Coach Boyer as assistant), plus having a good number of returning, experienced players, has allowed the team to start out the season at a “higher level” of play than last year. With only a few new players on the roster (mainly Kirby Owens, a senior, and Harriet Hofshuijsen, an exchange student), the team has a solid nucleus of experienced players around which to build. These returning players, who according to Coach Mayes, “are already much improved since last season,” include Mitzi Short, Jeanne Womack, and Mike Frankhouser.

This year’s team will also have much more depth than last year’s. The addition of Anne Elliot, a wing, after Thanksgiving, will help with the outside shooting, as will newcomer Kathy Bray, also a guard. Another freshman who will really contribute a lot is Wally Howell. She will be a good complement to Mike on the inside and should alleviate some of the double teaming on Frankhouser.

Davidson’s field hockey team finished this year second in the region (AIAW Division II) by defeating High Point 2-1. The Cats were stopped in the finals by a 2-0 loss to Richmond in the regional tournament. High Point had already defeated Davidson twice during the season, and led 1-0 at the half in the semi-final regional game. Five minutes into the second half, the Wildcats launched an attack on the goal that resulted in a score by left wing Sarah Hart. With seven minutes left in the game, junior Amy Crittenberger gave Davidson its winning goal on a penalty stroke. “Both teams played well,” said Coach Mayes.

Having only lost a few players from last year’s team and looking to a good season, the strength of the team appears to lie on the inside, where that combination of Howell and Frankhouser already seems to be working out well. But Mayes is trying to develop some more outside shooters in order to loosen up opposing defenses and keep them from keying on the big players. Despite the presence of the big rebounders, it doesn’t look as if the team will be relying too heavily on the fast break due to a lack of exceptionally fast guards. Look more for a control type of game, with a lot of board pounding and second and third shots on offense.

What is really hurting the team right now is the loss of two players, Rebecca Bates, a freshman, and Carol Heppner, a returning junior, to knee injuries. Mayes explained, “These players would really help us a lot.” It isn’t known exactly when they will be back. Becca will hopefully be able to play again at the beginning of January, but Carol isn’t expected back until later in the season. The loss of Carol is a heavy blow.She is a returning starter, capable of helping greatly both the inside and outside games in addition to being a real team player. Despite these losses, Mayes and Boyer are both optimistic about the season. According to Mayes, "Overall we're a much better team compared to last year, but this year’s schedule is much more difficult than last year’s."

The reason for the tougher schedule this year is that most of the other Division III AIAW schools in the area left the league, so the Wildcats were forced to pick up games with other nearby schools, who play Division II. Meredith is currently the only other school in NC besides Davidson in AIAW Division I. The two teams will meet twice during the regular season and once in post-season play for the State Championship. On the whole, this year’s team is, as Mayes puts it, "much more optimistic and confident in their skills than last year’s; and even though there are no seniors on the team, there are still a number of exceptional leaders among the juniors."

The Wildcats' first home game will be tomorrow night at 7:00 pm against Catawba. This will be the only home game before Christmas break, so don’t miss your only chance in 1981 to come out and cheer the women’s team to victory.

By Kara Gilmore ’85

Davidson finished this season second in both the state and the region. "We got a lot of support this year from our fans," Mayes added. "It made a difference to the whole team, and we really appreciate it." The hockey team had seven new players (five freshmen) and no seniors playing this season. Most of the team will be returning next year. Look forward to an exceptional team.

By Jim Northrup '82 and Kara Gilmore '85

Although Ray’s honors are somewhat belated, the senior from Jacksonville, Florida, is the Davidsonian’s Athlete of the Week. Ray closed out his already stellar career as he rushed for 260 yards against highly-touted Catawba. The yardage gave Ray 1,001 yards on the season, giving him a career total of 3,085 yards, a plateau reached by no Wildcat before him. Ray will be awaiting the pro football draft with real hopes of being picked.