Reaganomics Nearly End Student Aid Program
by Mahmoud Sayani '84

The North Carolina College Foundation (NCCF) turned down nineteen of the 125 Davidson students who applied for GSL loans because
part of its federal support fell to the Reagan administration cutbacks. North Carolina students this year had rushed to get
their applications in before 1 October, in order to avoid giving proof of need. After 1 October, only needy students
were eligible for GSLs. This, among other factors, dried out NCCF’s GSL money in the first week of September.

The Executive Director of NCCF said the foundation has allocated all available funds for the year 1981-1982, having made 15,000
loans amounting to a total of $36 million. This is a five percent reduction from funds available last year. NCCF
referred an equal number of applications to Citibank in New York, which has agreed to act as a lender-of-last-resort and
grant as many student loans as possible. NCCF did not know, however, how many loans Citibank would be able to
pick up. Citibank officials were unavailable for comment on this situation.

In its memorandum to affected students, NCCF cited “the depressed condition of the national economy, particularly in the revenue bond
market” as the reason for its inability to obtain adequate funding. Assistant Director of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson said, “students
may have been inconvenienced in that they had to apply again [this time to Citibank], but this is no real
problem.” She expects that Citibank will come through with the money for Davidson students. Stevenson also believes that the problem
this year has been an 81 percent increase in loan applications.

New rules for GSLs that went into effect Thursday allow only for need-based loans and eliminate all grace periods. Interest
rates and minimum annual loan repayment amounts were also increased. Citibank is offering the loans on the same terms as
NCCF. There are no family income restrictions. Annual interest rates are nine percent, charged and payable six months after graduation.
Other special features of these loans include up to $2500 per annum for dependent undergraduates, and up to ten-year repayment
periods.

Students in other states are also affected by the federal cutbacks. The Cavalier Daily, a University of Virginia newspaper, quoted
Barry Dorsey of the Virginia Council on Higher Education as saying students would lose $10-15 million in 1982. The Chronicle
for Higher Education estimated the total national GSL funds at $16.4 billion, a figure that has caused much concern to
both the Reagan and Carter administrations. Reagan cutbacks have already affected the eighteen-month-old Education Department, and large cuts in GSL
funds will probably have adverse effects on private universities and colleges like Davidson.

SGA Forms Its Standing Committees
by Jeff Holland ‘84

The SGA has established its standing committees for the 1981-82 school year and has chosen chairmen for these committees. Membership
on these committees is open to any Davidson student. “Anyone is invited and encouraged to join any committee they are
interested in,” said SGA Vice-President Chip Hurley. This year’s committees include the following:

ADMISSIONS: The Admissions committee is involved in getting...Davidson students to write prospective students in or near their hometown, and in
organizing SGA weekend. The chairwoman is sophomore Ester Kim, -6102.

PHONATHON: There will be a repeat of last year’s highly successful alumni phonathon. This year it will be expanded to
include alumni from all graduating classes from 1906 on. Last year’s goal of $60,000 has been raised to $100,000, and
the phonathon is planned for 10 days during the first two weeks of winter term. If you are interested in
being a night chairman or on the calling staff, see senior Stuart Dorsett, -4063, or junior Ken Krieg, -6149.

TRUSTEE CONTACT: This is a relatively independent committee made up of students who write letters to the Trustees concerning campus
issues. The students express their own opinions and write one or two letters a term. Students also meet and talk
with the Trustees when they visit the campus. The chairman is Barry Mack, -6769.

FACULTY STUDENT RELATIONS: This is a new committee set up for the purpose of getting faculty and students better acquainted
on an informal basis. Chairman Scott Eblin hopes to extend the idea behind coffee and cokes and avoid the rushed
and superficial feeling there. The meetings will be bi-weekly and the first one will be at the Commons on Friday
at 4:30. Interested people should call Scott Eblin, -6754.

COMMONS: This committee serves as a liaison between the Freshmen Food Service Committee, which is composed of representatives from each
freshmen hall, and the SGA. The committee will also discuss issues such as the future of Patterson Court, catering, and
any other matters concerning the College Dining Service. Interested students should call Lentz Ivey, -6144.

CORPORATE RELATIONS: The Corporate Relations Committee seeks to improve contacts between executives of top firms and Davidson students and works
with Ken Wood in the Careers Office to establish the needs of students in the area of corporate relations. Interested
students should call senior Stuart Dorsett, -4063.

ATHLETICS: This is an advisory committee to the Athletic Department and helps facilitate contact between the students and the Athletic
Department. Interested students should call junior Grey Hampton, -6597, or senior Andy Brown, -6743.

SECURITY: The Security Committee’s top priority for this year will be to evaluate the parking situation and suggest changes in
the space allotments and regulations, said the chairman junior Tim Johnston. The Security Committee also serves as an advisory to
campus security at parties and other college events. Interested students should call Tim Johnston, -6395.

CAREER SYMPOSIUM: There are a number of symposia planned for this year including a large one in the spring and
several smaller ones throughout the year. Interested students should call George Thompson, -6199.

RIDES: The Rides Committee is responsible for driving students to and from the airport at breaks and at the end
of the year. In the past, the committee has utilized both college-owned and private vehicles and volunteer drivers. Interested students
should contact Tracy Thompson, -6137.

Now Open - Sadler Square - beside Gus’s — Coin-Op Laundry
Mon. - Sat. hours: 8:00 am to 10:00 pm. — Sun. 1 pm to 6 pm.

page 5 / DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 2 October 1981
