page 4 DAVIDSONIAN Friday 25 September 1981

The Honor System: How the campus sees it

by Anne Miano '85

“The only guide to a man is his conscience; the only shield to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his actions. It is very imprudent to walk through life without this shield, because we are so often mocked by the failure of our hopes and the upsetting of our calculations; but with this shield, however the fates may play, we march always in the ranks of honor.” 
— Sir Winston Churchill in the House of Commons, 1940

Any student who has had any contact with Davidson as far as to apply has heard about the Honor System, perhaps even writing a reaction essay on the pamphlet. Once a student arrives at Davidson to begin his freshman year, he becomes caught up in a whirlwind of activities known as “orientation.” However, all becomes calm as the freshmen file into Love Auditorium to hear the “Presentation on the Honor Code.” The hall counselors have taken roll, and no one has dared to be absent. It’s a sacred thing at Davidson, this Honor Code. People take special pains to make it perfectly clear that the Honor Code is serious business and no one is to ignore it. From the very first day until graduation, the Honor Code is a way of life for a Davidson student. Or is it? When the speeches end, when the pamphlets are thrown away, and the freshman year is over, does the Honor Code end up on the shelf, stuffed behind an old Humanities book? Many upperclassmen say “no.”

[All students quoted directly or indirectly in this article asked to remain unidentified.]

Although they say that they’ve written the “pledge” on their papers so many times that it has become a part of their names, a special “sense of pride” returns right around exam time when everyone takes his tests at different times, but no one discusses them. At other schools, students spend more time trying to think of ways to cheat instead of ways to study. So at the end of a semester, Davidson seems different from the rest; just because of an Honor Code.

Freshmen starting out at Davidson are bombarded by the Honor Code. They also feel scared, threatened, and intimidated. A slip of a footnote and one’s college career could be over. They think, “I could make a mistake without even knowing it because I’m not really sure what I’m dealing with.” The fear causes mistrust of the Honor Code itself. Many freshmen cannot find the line, and for them, the Honor Code is frightening. For many, it is better than they heard it would be. Over and over, freshmen say that the Honor Code was one reason that they chose Davidson, and they haven’t been disappointed yet. They like leaving books in the library and keeping their doors unlocked. They are confident that the system is working and feel a strong obligation to live by the rules. Students also know whatHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

... happens when someone violates,” “Honor Councils,” and a minimum of two semesters. They’ve heard all the rumors and the stories about other students who violated the Honor System,” said Patsy Marks ‘25. In separate cases, two Davidson students stole over $3,000 from a campus organization between February and May 1981.

Dealing with Honor violations is an important part of the Honor System. People sometimes wonder if the system is fair to those found guilty of offenses. Many students even feel that two semesters is “pretty strict because anybody can make a mistake.” However, most upperclassmen feel that people who come to Davidson have agreed not to make mistakes. “You’ve agreed to abide by the System even before you get here.” Most students don’t feel any resentment toward the System and trust that Honor violations are dealt with fairly and for the student’s benefit. “No one likes to kick someone out, but we all know the rules. The Davidson campus doesn’t suffer because it loses someone who broke them.”

Teachers are happy with the Honor System. They feel it really works, especially during tests. They like to be able to pass out a review and then leave the room if they need to. They have complete trust in honor-bound students.

There are people who do feel that although Davidson deals with the problem of violations, it often “forgets to look at the cause.” The “paper chase” is alive and well at Davidson, just as it is at other highly competitive institutions. The emphasis on grades and excellence is so strong that students often feel pressures that are difficult to deal with. Sometimes even a “good student” can find himself cutting corners off the Honor Code just to keep up with Davidson’s high academic expectations. That problem, unfortunately, is something that the System just doesn’t provide for.

Nevertheless, the Honor Code is something that the Davidson community is proud of. It’s a “practical affirmation of a value.” Dean Terry said, “It involves a lot of sacrifice, but in the end, it teaches the value of living honorably.” No matter what goes on in the world outside, Davidson will be different, and that makes the entire System worth it.

The settlement entails the student repaying the total amount stolen, plus paying for a portion of the costs of investigating his case. He has already repaid all but $300 of the stolen money and hopes to repay the rest shortly.

The checks were written between 18 March and 12 May 1981. In one instance, he wrote a check to a friend for $650. He also overpaid his salary as an officer of the victimized organization by over half and made frequent long-distance personal calls that he billed to the College. He has returned just under $850 — the full amount he owed — to the organization. His case was referred to Dean Terry, who suspended him for two terms. There was not an Honor Council trial. The student has not admitted his guilt explicitly but agreed to accept the punishment determined by the Dean. The student is eligible to return to Davidson for the spring term. They are not taking legal action against either student.