8—The Davidsonian—May 8, 1981

Nick’s Flicks

Fine Films ends its season next Tuesday with an excellent but sadly neglected British film from the 60’s. Joseph Losey’s
*The Servant*, besides featuring an early screenplay by Harold Pinter, stars Dirk Bogarde as a gentleman’s gentleman whose relationship with
his aristocratic employer very quickly subverts the accepted forms of the British class structure. Replete with social and political implications,
Pinter’s film documents the disintegration of feudal and aristocratic personality with a nonchalance which very easily becomes terrifying. The etiolated
nobleman is played by James Graham Fox (brother of Edward) who uses a wealth of upper-class mannerisms to convey his
increasingly fragile grasp on control of his life. That this is founded upon hypocrisy and exploitation is never in doubt,
but whatever pity may be felt for him by the end cannot be simply ascribed to his being a “weak
personality.” In fact, beneath Bogarde’s subversive urbanity lies a desire for exploitative dominance at least as vicious as that of
the aristocrat whom he seeks to replace. At this level, the psychological implications of the film tend to outweigh the
political, and it is certainly insufficient to regard it all as just another tract upon the evils of capitalism. The
sheer force of the personalities ultimately becomes more important, and when Bogarde is joined by Sarah Miles playing his nymphomaniac
and possibly incestuous sister, the whole film moves into another arena. The final degradation of the helpless nobleman is performed
with quite callous coolness in a series of frighteningly powerful scenes. This disintegration is made all the more disturbing when
it is remembered that several years later James Fox’s acting career was ended by a combination of mental illness and
alcohol abuse. This film should not be missed.

Schedule this week with the excellent *All That Jazz* in Love on Friday, which evidently needs little recommendation. Neither does
Saturday’s feature, *The Attack of the Killer Tomatoes*, said to be one of the worst films ever made. Love Auditorium
ought to be full to bursting at 11 pm.

Those of you favoring entertainment in Charlotte should try the Visulite, where Francois Truffaut’s latest, *The Last Metro*, is showing
until May 14th. And a rather baffling feature it is, too. Truffaut has already made one film (*La Nuit Americaine*,
1972), which celebrated the illusory powers of the cinema, and this film, which deals with the theatre, has been hailed
as doing for the Thespian medium what the former did for the celluloid. Arguably, this misses the point: in spite
of the largely irrelevant title, the film centers on a Parisian theatre during the Occupation. Gerard Depardieu (who seems to
have it in his contract that he appear in every major French film these days) stars as a leading actor
whose extra-theatrical activities include the Resistance, his specialty exploding record-players. Catherine Deneuve is the theater manageress, combining a life treading
the boards with the clandestine presence of her Jewish husband in the cellar below. Everybody in this situation has something
or someone to hide, and the only remotely straightforward character is the devious Daxiat, a viciously anti-semitic theatre critic dedicated
to rooting out Hebraic and effeminate influences from the Paris stage. In this situation, one would have expected some major
tension and personal conflict to emerge, but the whole action ambles along in a pleasant fashion where even Truffaut's famed
charming wit seems muted. At first viewing, at least, the film lacks the cohesion of *La Nuit Americaine*, where the
shared obsession with cinema gives some intensity to the characters. Here, none of the personalities seems to be able to
get worked up about anything in particular, even betrayal to the Nazis. The sole exception is the scene in which
Depardieu takes Daxiat to task for his unfavorable reviews, thus precipitating a crisis in the plot which is immediately dropped
by the director in favor of a final five minutes too bizarre for words. Whether in all this Truffaut intends
to make a point about the deception of the theater, the actors, their characters, indeed his own cinematic deceptions as
a film-director, is open to question. Perhaps, it all breaks down because of the different natures of the illusions practiced
upon their audiences by cinema and theater respectively. Either way, one is left with a vague feeling of unease at
the unsatisfactory way in which *The Last Metro* proceeds.

And that, I'm afraid, is the last installment of this column you will read in the Davidsonian. As the sun
sets sail from the harbor and the ship sinks slowly in the west, “Nick’s Flicks” is, mercifully, going to that
great Screening Room in the sky. Riding off into the sunset as the titles roll, what else can the apprentice
cinephile say? Here's looking at you, kids.

Similarly, Pop Films draw towards a conclusion with their King George Motel After school special Low graduation rates for Davidson
students North Myrtle Beach, SC Call: (803) 1249-2721

More Campus Forum

Old South

To the Editor:

What element makes Old South weekend different from other party weekends? It is a celebration of the Southern lifestyle in
the pre-Civil War period, highlighted by a costume ball where some participants wear Confederate uniforms. This celebration has been attacked
in a “Statement of Protest” written by the Black Student Coalition. The attack was founded on the idea that the
Old South was a “demoralized” and “insulting” society. The writers of this statement were incorrect and totally unfounded in these
accusations. It showed a great lack of insight on their part to unjustly attack an institution that they do not
understand. The Old South was a society that embodied the ideals of chivalry and honor. It was almost completely destroyed
because it stood up for what it believed was right. The only sin that can be held, universally, against the
Old South is a deadly sin: Pride. The Confederate uniform is a symbol of this pride. It stands as a
reminder that a people would risk their way of life for what they believe is right. The South in the
Civil War did not unitedly fight for slavery. They fought against the denial of their states’ rights. This group of
people fought for four long years against a force greatly superior to their own in both manpower and technological support.
They were starved, disease-ridden, and oppressed.fought on out of sheer force of will. They suffered the almost complete annihilation of
the male population, the destruction of any society left, and the humiliation and degradation that occurred at the hands of
immoral quasi-buffoons. The carpetbaggers got away with thievery, murder, and the like with the support or at least without the
intervention of the law and occupational forces. The celebration of Old South is a reminder of the glorious society this
country was able to produce. The Old South is, to some, and should be to all, a reference point: a
point to compare to valor, courage, patriotism, chivalry, fortitude, strength, luxury, ingenuity, and religious morality for all time. The Old
South displays all the things that we hold to be American in one cohesive unit.

Leif Johnston

Old South yea

To the Editor:

The issue of Old South is obviously a very emotional one. It is emotional for Blacks because it reminds us
of the oppression and heartlessness to which our people were subjected, and it is emotional for KA’s because it is
a fraternity tradition. Although on an emotional level I not only understand but also strongly feel the pain that could
come from an Old South celebration, when I consider the Black Student Coalition’s protest against Davidson KA’s and the issue,
I stand with the fraternity for several reasons.

First, the BSC members admit that KA members are not racist and that the celebration harbors no malicious intent. They
argue, however, that Old South is inherently “offensive to ALL Blacks.” It seems illogical to me to completely divorce the
intent of an action from the action itself.

Second, Davidson KA’s realize that Southern culture did include practices and warped values that were clearly wrong. We also believe,
however, that ideals like chivalry, courage, and respect for women are worth remembering and celebrating. As a Black, it is
all too evident to me that these ideals as they existed in the South were only applied to white society
by white society. What that says to me is that good ideals were misused. It does not in my mind
decrease the value of the ideals themselves. When Davidson KA’s celebrate Old South, we celebrate those ideals, not as they
were practiced then, but as we feel they should have been.

I had some of the same feelings about KA’s and Old South as those held by the BSC. Once I
got to know the guys at the house I realized, however, that to look at the fraternity without seeing the
individuals and their intentions was to share in the close-mindedness for which I had always criticized white racists. When I
received encouragement from KA last spring, I tried to look at it objectively. I thought about “Old South,” and I
realized that Davidson KA’s were indeed able to separate the good from the bad in that period in history. Last
weekend I celebrated Old South with a clear conscience.

I feel very strongly that the BSC protest was a positive one. It made us as a campus think about
an important issue—something which I’m afraid we rarely do. The KA’s became more sensitive to the feelings of campus Blacks.
I hope the members of the BSC will also become sensitive to the fraternity traditions. Granted, not all KA chapters
celebrate Old South with honorable intentions. Davidson KA’s, however, have made significant strides. Although I do not favor abandoning the
fraternity tradition, KA’s should continue to make every effort to be sensitive to the campus as a whole.

Last week I refused to comment on the protest before I saw Old South. I felt very much torn in
the middle. Now, there is no doubt in my mind that Old South at Davidson is a celebration not of
white supremacy, but of ideals which I hope we all value and attempt to practice. I expect communication between the
BSC and KA will continue in an atmosphere of open willingness to compromise and an effort to understand each other’s
actions and intentions. Old South is the type of thing that can easily be abused or misunderstood. I hope in
the future we can work together on becoming more sensitive to each other and to the campus as a whole.

Sherman Allen ’83
Member of KA and BSC

Old South nay

Dear KA members:

America should not have anything that may evoke racism. KA Old South may be a celebration which means a lot
to you, but since the Blacks see it as evoking feelings of anger and anguish, it’s better for KA to
quit. Instead of celebrating the traditional KA Old South, why don’t you guys change it in such a way that
it can promote understanding and foster the relationship between KA and BSC members?

Peace and Love,
Keng Soon Lim
Malaysian International Student

Lip service

To The Editor:

Last week Edith Parker wrote an excellent article discussing the problems faced by women athletes at Davidson College. Elizabeth Kiss
expressed the same concerns in her editorial “A Discriminating College.” Why then, with all the emphasis on equality, do we
need a microscope to find an article on women’s tennis? They have one of the best records of any sport
here.

If you will look on page 6 of last week’s issue you will find the title “Lady Cats Squeak By...”
We find this an inappropriate title for an article covering a team that won the NCAIAW State Tournament with 3
singles players and one doubles team finishing first in their flight. Not to forget that Emmy Knobloch captured the #1
state singles title for the third straight year. The layout and coverage in general leave a lot to be desired.
(This is not to fault writer Katie Dagenhart as much as it is a staff that permitted what we hope
was an oversight.) The lack of quotes, pictures, and in-depth coverage seems a gross contradiction in light of the overall
tone of last week’s issue. Is the process of reporting the end of the concern? The complaint may seem picky
to many and irrelevant to the staff, but the issue is much broader. We hope the community plans to give
more than simply lip service to the non-discriminatory ideals expressed.

Anne Hockett ‘83
Denise Ferguson ’83
