Assistant Director of Admissions Jimmy Williams brought A Better Chance, Inc. (ABC) with him when he came to Davidson this
year.

ABC is a non-profit organization that places talented minority students into top-notch prep schools. Mr. Williams serves as one of
ABC’s regional directors.

Because ABC sends out a list of graduating ABC students to interested colleges every year, Mr. Williams’s connection with the
organization might attract more minority students to Davidson.

Last year, 37 minority students applied to Davidson; 27 were accepted; and 17 enrolled. “We probably need to make Davidson
more visible to minorities,” Mr. Williams said.

ABC students are of such high caliber that they usually are accepted by well-established, prestigious schools. Because they have not
been made aware of Davidson, ABC students opt to go to Ivy League and other very well-known schools, Mr. Williams
said. Since ABC was organized in 1963, 80% of the 7000 students it has placed have graduated from prep school,
and 90% of the prep school graduates have gone on to college.

Davidson is Mr. Williams’s third assignment with ABC. He also worked for ABC in Eastern New England and New York
City. “These kids often come from an all-minority environment to a predominately white area,” Mr. Williams said. They need help
in adjusting to the new situation. Mr. Williams acts as “a father figure to most of these kids.” He visits
prep schools twice a year to talk to students and faculty about the students’ progress and problems.

Mr. Williams works with students from five prep schools. One hundred seventy-five secondary schools are members of ABC. Most of
these are in the Northeast, and the organization is expanding into California, Texas, and Minnesota.

If necessary, ABC provides some financial aid to needy students though it is not primarily a scholarship organization. Boarding school
students get up to $1500 per annum and day school students up to $750. In some areas, ABC runs Public
School Programs which sponsor a residence with “house parents and tutors” for some of the students, the brochure said.

Blacks make up the majority of the students ABC is interested in. Other minorities included are Hispanics, Asian-Americans, and Indians.
Some white students are also assisted; these form 6% of the total.

By Mahmoud Sayani '84.

---

SGA Phonathon

Goal set at $100,000 for December drive.

The SGA’s annual Phonathon starts the first week after Thanksgiving break. The co-chairmen, senior Stuart Dorsett and junior Ken Krieg,
have set this year’s goal at $100,000.

Last year the SGA raised $60,000 for the College’s Living Endowment.

An anonymous alumnus has offered a challenge grant, promising to match every dollar each alumni class contributes over its donations
from last year’s Phonathon. The alumnus said he would give up to $100,000.

This year the SGA has extended the Phonathon to last ten nights, with forty students making calls each night. Students
will solicit all alumni classes from 1924 to 1980. Ne Ultra Society members (alumni who donate annually) will be contacted
separately.

Stuart said the Phonathon should help the College raise alumni participation in the Living Endowment from 33 percent to its
goal of 40 percent. Pledges from the Phonathon will go towards the Living Endowment’s overall goal of one million dollars
in donations for 1981.

Stuart also said the Phonathon “lends credibility to the school’s fund-raising office and increases alumni involvement.”

A different pair of students representing some campus group will recruit each night’s callers. The night chairmen for the first
week of the Phonathon are Jonathan West and Chip Christian representing the Doughboys on Tuesday, 1 December. Stephanie Moffet and
Carol Jolly of Emanon will be in charge on Wednesday. Barry Mack and Bob Whalen of Sigma Phi Epsilon will
recruit for Thursday. J.C. Faulkner and Dan Newsome of SAE will be chairmen on Sunday, 6 December, and André Kinnebrew
and Mike Jordanou of the BSC and Phi Delta Theta will be in charge on Monday. Senior Rick Gaines will
coordinate the first week of the drive.

The second week's coordinator is senior Andy Brown. Freshmen Kelly Sundberg and John Laughlin will chair the Phonathon on Tuesday,
8 December. Stokes-Peeple and Hill Stockton of KA run the show on Wednesday. Fijis Jim Cheek and John Teague are
Thursday’s chairmen. Gray Hampton and Terry Wade of PiKA will be in charge on Sunday, 13 December, and Anne Hurt
and Shannon Walters of Rusk will chair the Phonathon on Monday.

Volunteers should contact their managers for more information.
