The Weekly Newspaper of Davidson College

Sida and you

Late Monday night a friend woke my roommate and me up to tell us that if he were drafted, he
wouldn’t serve. We didn’t know that he had been wrestling with the problem.

“If Reagan decides to pick a fight in Central America or the Middle East,” he told us, “I just won’t
go. I don’t think I could kill anyone, especially if I weren’t defending my country, but just fighting in some
petty Third World dictator’s skirmish.

“Maybe I could push buttons — shoot at tanks or other machines. But I wouldn’t be able to face another
person. One on one I’d lose every time.”

But, all in all, everything seemed completely hypothetical. A philosophy exercise was all it was — intriguing and intellectually important,
but nothing of practical concern.

The next morning we heard that President Sadat of Egypt had been assassinated. Sadat had led the most stable government
in the Middle East. He was relieved at having reached a decision after a great deal of agonizing, and he
was somewhat surprised at his choice. We asked him how his family would react.

“Oh, they would not want any part of me if I ducked out. But I’m prepared to make that sacrifice.”

After he left, we exchanged a few words before we fell back to sleep. We were now a little frightened
of having to confront the same choice ourselves.

We knew Egypt could not afford another war, so he bargained for peace. But given Sadat’s death, we imagined all
sorts of scenarios in which a troubled, leaderless Egypt provoked a war — a war for which we would be
drafted.

Now Egypt will, we agreed, probably remain stable, just as it did a decade ago when Sadat replaced Nasser. But
it is just as probable that many more heads of state will be assassinated. What frightened us was realizing how
quickly an international crisis might develop after the next assassination — how a hypothetical question might become a practical one
overnight.

— John Siman ’82

D.C. in the spring: two students discuss their internship in Washington

The Washington Center for Learning Alternatives is an academic institution in Washington, D.C. that provides internships for undergraduate and graduate
students. Last Spring we decided that we would like to spend a term in Washington to help us clarify our
majors and career goals, to get a different perspective on studies, and to be exposed to the city where major
U.S. political activity occurs. With the help of Ken Wood, director of the Careers Office, we were able to participate
in the yet unaffiliated program. WCLA provided us with an internship related to our interests, an apartment within the district,
and a seminar corresponding to our internship.

There were about 300 interns from colleges and universities around the U.S. living in the Woodner Apartments. Their jobs ranged
from setting up exhibits at the Smithsonian to active lobbying on Capitol Hill.

The WCLA program determines the type of internship by the student’s interests and keeps in touch with the student and
agency sponsor (boss) throughout the term to ensure that the situation is mutually beneficial. Mike worked for “Citizens for Educational
Freedom,” a lobbying group supporting tuition tax credits. Her job provided access to the most current information and events concerning
public and private education, a career interest for her, while gaining experience in the political activities that affect legislation. The
internship also gave her the opportunity to participate in meetings and seminars with speakers such as Dr. James Coleman, a
sociologist known for his statistical research on education.

Jeanne worked in the Treasury Department for the Office of State and Local Finance. The Director of the office, Robert
Aten, had been working on a report on the effect of severance taxes on the 1983 forecasted Revenue Sharing allocations.
Jeanne was placed in charge of a section of the report on the formation of severance taxes. The work involved
research and statistical analysis of energy production data. The report was completed the first week in May and was presented
to the Senate Intergovernmental Relations Subcommittee. As another aspect of her work, Jeanne had continual contact with Senators and Congressional
hearings.

The Washington experience as a whole involved much more than nine-hour workdays. There were infinite cultural, historical, and social opportunities
to explore. We had lunch with Betty Anderson, the undersecretary of the Treasury under the Carter Administration, at the exclusive
International Club. We attended the Georgia Chamber of Commerce annual banquet where all of the state and federal delegates from
Georgia met to discuss current legislation. And, there’s always the Smithsonian, symphonies on the front lawn of the Capitol, Georgetown...
WCLA is now an affiliated program at Davidson. We would highly recommend the internship as it was a meaningful and
eye-opening experience for us. We would be glad to talk to anyone interested.

Jeanne Womack is a junior economics major from Richmond, Virginia. Mike Frankhouser is a junior English major from Sylvania, Georgia.
Jeanne and Mike spent last spring term in Washington with the newly affiliated Washington Center for Learning Alternatives.

Juniors Jeanne Womack and Mike Frankhouser.
