‘Stacking’ the Deck

The way he plays his cards makes or breaks the season.

However,

It is widely said among sports writers that potential is the most overused word in their profession. This time, however, there’s no other way to say it — this year’s basketball team has awesome potential: Potential to be awesomely good, and potential to be awesomely bad...

First, we'll deal with the awesomely bad part, because that should only take a couple of paragraphs.

What most people notice about the program is that the three leading scorers of last year’s 13-14 Wildcats are gone: Todd Haynes (19.8 ppg) was lost to graduation. Rich DiBenedetto averaged 14 points per game last year, but as one of the top offensive players in the nation with an average of 20.0 ppg and a shooting percentage of 63%.

John Gullickson (11.6 ppg) was one of the nation’s leading free throw shooters as a freshman and was key to the team’s success.

Looking at those losses, people are saying there’s no way Davidson can win without its top three scorers. The point is well taken, but in losing its top three scorers, Davidson also faces new challenges.

With those three out of the way, Bobby Hussey is...

The jokers are wild

Coach Hussey isn’t sure of his starting five, and realistically anyone could be on the court for the opening tip-off, but here are our picks: John Carroll, Jamie Hall, Brian Re...

Coach Hussey has in mind for Davidson basketball a renaissance. It’s the caterpillar entering the cocoon and emerging as a butterfly.

Hussey began to put the shape in something of a cocoon last spring. He met with the team members individually and as a whole, trying to develop a better self-image and respect for teammates. The policy of building confidence in the program is soundly based in good psychology.

As the team began practicing for this season...

On one occasion, I was watching the team run through drills of the offense, and I was privileged to have Coach Hussey attempt to explain it to me. “Basketball is a simple game. You get the man open, you hit the open man, and he takes the shot. It’s really a simple game.” Look for that when you watch a Davidson game. Look for players popping open at the top of the key, or breaking towards the basket. They’re invariably taking shots and scoring...

I came into contact with another of Coach Hussey’s tenets: “The whole is the sum of its parts.” Other teams will have two great players, but we’ll have ten players who play better together,” Hussey promises. He desires a “singleness of purpose,” and he demands “a team effort, and 100% effort is all you can ask for. I want you to be able to say you did your best.” But he quickly adds, “You can do your best and still lose.”

Lest he stray too far, Coach Hussey returns to the singleness of purpose. “Systems and plays don’t mean anything without singleness of purpose. They [the team] have got to be willing to work hard and to believe in each other.”

For a variety of picks, screens, and the like, invariably someone winds up emerging from the traffic jam alone...

They’re dribbling at inopportune times. On defense, they’re not always talking or not sliding to help out. When he speaks of these things, he says that great teams...