April 3, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

Women's track

Hill wins 1500 and 3K runs; team loses to Lynchburg

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

The women’s track team bettered most of its times in individual and team events, but could not overcome a strong Lynchburg College team last weekend. Davidson lost to Lynchburg by a score of 90-35.

Sophomore Marian Hill continued to shine as she took first in the 1500 meter (5:16.31) and first in the 3000 meter run (11:05.8).

Merris Hollingsworth also placed in the 3000, taking second with a time of 11:56.97.

Coach Lisa Boyer said, “Our times this week were better than last and we all performed well, but Lynchburg just had a lot more depth.”

Freshman Leslie Bryan prepares for her throw.

Laura Hills was the only other Davidson competitor to take a first place. Hills took the long jump with a 451.6 cm jump, while Nancy Stoudt took second in the same event with a 422 cm leap.

Hills also placed second in the 400 meter run and the 200 meter run (28.6 seconds), while Stoudt threw the shot for a third place.

Beth Bryant placed in two events, second in the 100 meter hurdles and fourth in the discus.

This weekend the Lady Cats host the Davidson Relays. Fifteen women’s teams are expected to compete. Coach Boyer and team members are all confident that good competition will push them to better marks.

Tennis team beats Citadel, VMI, and Vermont; record jumps to 14-2

By SCOTT BEAVER
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s tennis team continues to compile an impressive record. They stand at 14-2 after their 6-3 loss to Ohio University this past week.

The team also picked up wins over The Citadel (7-2), VMI (8-1), and Vermont (9-0). Davidson is 2-0 in the Southern Conference.

According to Coach Jeff Frank, the biggest problem facing his squad is not another team nor their own performance. “The biggest problem,” Frank said, “is the fact that we’ve got three or four guys sick, with colds, the flu, and one guy has even got viral pneumonia... a lot of times, we don’t have the ability to put the strongest team we can out on the court.”

Frank names Nevins Todd, Mark Nottingham, Victor Taylor, and Nick Petrou, all of them in the Davidson top six, among the players affected.

Despite the handicap, Frank was pleased with his team’s performance in every match this week save one—the loss to Ohio University.

“We knew they were going to be tough, because we only beat them 5-4 last year,” Frank said. “We started out poorly. Only Jay (Gepfert) and Nevins (Todd) won their singles. We were down 4-2 after the singles matches. If we had won all the doubles, we could have won the match.”

Frank continued, “I think the loss, at the time it came, might have been good.” The loss prevented the team from “getting cocky” right before their two conference matches, VMI and The Citadel.

“The conference matches were played really well,” Frank said. Last year Davidson beat The Citadel 5-4, but the ’Cats raised the margin this year to 8-1.

The Wildcat’s season schedule gets tough this week as the team faces N.C. State, South Carolina, and Winthrop, among others. “South Carolina is ranked 11th in the nation this year and they are just unbelievable,” Frank commented. He said that substitutes will have to play well to make up for the missing players.

Catch the fastest action in town on film for The Davidsonian.

Interested in sports photography? Contact David McCurry, ext. 148.

Senior Barb Ashley passes the baton to freshman Laura Hills.

By KATIE DAGENHART
Staff Correspondent

The women’s tennis team met with nothing but success last week. The lady netters defeated Skidmore on Saturday 8-1, and Tuesday demolished Gardner-Webb 9-0. These victories improve the team record to 8-1.

Junior Emmy Knobloch continues to do an outstanding job, remaining undefeated in the first singles position. The number one doubles team, Knobloch and senior Hope McArn, is also undefeated.

Coach Pat Miller said that the team is “looking ahead to some tough matches next week.” Yesterday the ’Cats warmed up by scrimmaging Charlotte Latin School. Today, the girls took on Winthrop College at home at two pm.

The ’Cats go on the road this weekend, facing Atlantic Christian on Friday and East Carolina University on Saturday. The beginning of next week brings two tough conference matches at home—UNCC on Monday and Guilford on Tuesday. Both matches are at 2 pm.

Miller noted that Guilford is one of the top teams in the state. Last year, Davidson and Guilford tied for second place in the Division II state championship of the North Carolina Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Women (AIAW).

Pop Films presents
French Postcards

Friday, April 3 in Love Auditorium

8:00 and 10:30
Admission: $1.50 or season pass

American students go to Paris...

The less they study the more they learn.

Produced by Gloria Katz Written by Willard Huyck & Gloria Katz Directed by Willard Huyck

Paramount Pictures Corporation All Rights Reserved