Learn Wisdom by Canning Northern Fish
Eric Long ‘83

As the summer vacation rolls around, the search for jobs intensifies. With only four summers during one’s college years, one
should take full advantage of these relatively carefree times. Many job prospects such as restaurant work and summer camp counseling
are chosen year after year by those interested only in making a little money. Others like lab work and summer
internships are chosen by those anxious souls preparing for their careers. However, I propose a work experience that is more
valuable than these typical jobs and combines all the best opportunities a summer can offer: travel, rest, large paychecks, and
a different perspective. This alternative wonder-job is working in a fish cannery in Alaska, an adventure available to every motivated
Davidson student.

"Don't just muck around at home all summer, working at a pool, get out and see the country you live
in."

The summer breaks are the few times when a student has little responsibility and can freely roam around. Traveling to
Alaska enlightened me to the vast size and beauty of North America, which I had never fully appreciated before. To
get there, one can fly, drive, hitchhike, or take a cruiser. Believe me, getting to Alaska is an experience in
itself, so don’t let the distance discourage you.

Most students generally have to work the whole summer in order to make enough money for the next school year.
After a tough academic year, I, personally, need at least a month to do nothing but relax. Fish cannery work
in Alaska enabled me to fulfill this goal. I made about $400 a week doing menial jobs in the cannery.
I ended up working hard for six weeks and saved enough money to get through this year. The rest of
the summer, I traveled extensively in Alaska, camping out and reading novels.

The most valuable insight I gained, which most ordinary jobs failed to touch upon, was a wider perspective of other
Americans’ lives. Besides hiring college students, the fish cannery literally recruits the scum of the workforce. I was brought into
contact with people who have not been blessed with what most of us at Davidson take for granted. I met
several men in their forties, traveling the country in search of work, with no real life direction. My first response
was to laugh at their collective ineptitude, at the alcoholic Indian as his shaking hands spilled steaming coffee all over
himself. Gradually, though, I pitied him; and, in trying to understand these different lifestyles, came to reevaluate my own.

Obtaining a job in Alaska may seem discouraging, as many people are insecure about venturing out on their own with
no assurance of a job. Since the fishermen were on strike when I got to Alaska, I had nowhere to
work for almost the entire first month. Afraid I might fail in this singular summer challenge, but determined to find
work, I stayed up there. Finally, my determination paid off and I was hired. Soon I found I could be
totally independent in providing for myself on a day-to-day basis. This gave me confidence that I could make it on
my own when necessary, a confidence often lacking in those who have yet to similarly test their mettle.

I doubt, having written this, that Davidson will mass migrate to the fish canneries in Alaska. Of course, this kind
of experience doesn’t appeal to most people. However, if you are one of the more adventurous types and are dissatisfied
with the usual available jobs, I strongly urge you to go. If anyone would like more information on a sojourn
to Alaska, I’d be glad to fill you in.

Eric Long is a sophomore economics major from Great Falls, Virginia. He plans to be a roustabout at a Colorado
oil well this summer.

LOOK! EVIDENCE OF SOVIET INTERVENTION! TELL GENERAL HAIG!

Reagan’s Militaristic Escapade is no Help to Anyone
James Barrat ‘83

Past presidents of the United States have felt it perfunctory to flex their military muscle at least once during their
terms in office. Nixon had years of Vietnam, Ford had Mayaguez, and Carter managed to deliver his formal punch with
his desert debacle over our hostages in Iran. And now, debuting with a questionable variation on this tradition, President Reagan
has his turn. Clearly not one to pander with first establishing his credibility as an envoy of world peace, Reagan,
aided by the martialistic elan of Secretary of State Haig, has already committed the United States to no less than
a year’s military intervention in the political affairs of El Salvador. Not only do our military contributions to El Salvador
seem an over-reaction to a less than grave problem, but our assistance is viewed as over-bearing by much of the
population of El Salvador, even by El Salvador’s Presidente Duarte and members of his junta. On “Face the Nation” Sunday,
Secretary of State Haig...Admitted that it was not the U.S.’s primary intention to back up Duarte’s three-month-old junta against threatening
leftist revolutionaries, but to oppose “external,” namely Soviet, intervention and arms supply to the guerrillas. To this end, the U.S.
had supplemented $10 million of military aid to El Salvador with $25 million more and sent 45 military advisors to
see to the build-up of the army and navy. Although Haig spoke of “concrete evidence of Soviet arms in the
hands of the revolutionaries,” El Salvador’s military personnel feel that the extent of military aid proposed far outweighs the nature
of the problem. One such officer, quoted by Newsweek, commented that “...the proportions of help being offered by Washington seem
clearly out of scale...Does the navy really need four or five patrol boats to capture a couple of rifles a
day coming in on little fishing boats?” In effect, the United States will spend millions preventing a proportionally small amount
of arms from being smuggled into El Salvador from Cuba and Costa Rica—millions that even President Duarte has commented he
would rather see helping El Salvador’s failing economy and implementing his planned social reforms.

Reagan and Haig have moved rashly in a direction that has betrayed their intention to make a political example of
the small South American nation. Those most directly affected by the U.S.’s reinforcement of El Salvador’s military are her countrymen.
Caught between the President’s rightist military regime and the leftist “freedom fighters,” the people of El Salvador have long been
exposed to the “death squads” of renegade military sanctioned by Duarte’s right. Ten thousand people were killed in political struggles
last year alone. Most of them, according to the El Salvadorans, were victims of the overzealous, undisciplined rightist regime. It
is to the more respectable elements of this very regime that the Reagan Administration is sending money, advisors, and promises
of greater U.S. commitment in the event of increased violence.

On the other side of the struggle, according to former U.S. Ambassador to El Salvador Robert White, the leftist revolutionaries
are fighting in the interest of the people. White, who was ousted from the State Department with the arrival of
the new administration, holds that the “freedom fighters” are crusaders against the social injustice sanctioned by Duarte’s right, not pawns
in a larger Soviet plan. Outnumbered three to one, the leftist guerrillas, despite their Soviet rifles and grenades, have little
chance of succeeding in a military coup, especially now that President Duarte’s army is virtually sustained by Reagan’s generous defense
budget.

In the case of El Salvador, it seems Reagan and Haig have moved quickly and rashly in a direction that
has betrayed their intention to make a political example of the small South American nation. If the Reagan Administration means
to continue this kind of reactionary response to an overblown Soviet threat, imminent dangers arise. Already, by pouring defense dollars
and military advisors into El Salvador, Reagan has committed the United States to defending President Duarte’s junta with U.S. forces
if revolutionary offenses mount further to threaten the right. If direct intervention becomes “necessary,” and American public opinion fails to
support Reagan's promise, the President will be politically forced to withdraw U.S. aid from El Salvador. This will bring the
same kind of embarrassment and worldwide loss of credibility to the United States that we suffered from Vietnam.

With our $35 million plunge into El Salvador, the Reagan Administration has not only formally acknowledged our consent of a
very dubious military regime, but reinitiated an interventionist cycle that the people of the United States are unwilling to experience
again. In addition, such moves damage our relations with our NATO allies who, at the beginning of the President’s term,
implored Reagan and Haig to stop their name-calling of the Russians, lest they in the Soviet's front yard suffer the
repercussions. It remains to be seen if the Reagan Administration will act with more consideration of the gravity and worldwide
impact of the United States’ every military move. If their foot-stomping and money-pouring continue, however, Reagan and Haig may stir
up a few real Russians to replace those they’ve conjured up.

Opinions editor James Barrat is a philosophy major from Shepherdstown, West Virginia. The Davidsonian welcomes columns on any subject. We
reserve the right to edit for clarity, length, and accuracy. Call Opinions Editor James Barrat [892-6257] if interested.
