On the air

THE NEWEST MEMBER OF THE WDAV PERMANENT staff is Theresa Woody, the new Program Director. Theresa is a Charlotte native
and a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she majored in music. After graduation, she
taught piano at UNC.

Theresa’s previous radio experience comes from work as a permanent announcer at WDBS in Durham, a commercial classical and jazz
station. She also did some programming there.

Theresa said she first became interested in music while in Europe the summer before her senior year in high school.
She had been considering pre-med as her major in college, but she heard an organ concert at Notre Dame Cathedral
in Paris. She was surrounded and immersed by the huge sound, and she made a vow at that time to
become more serious about music.

Tom Kazee, a graduate of Wallace College and Ohio State University, has just come to Davidson from Tulane University, where
he has been teaching.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 30 October 1981

Theresa Woody joins WDAV staff

Since Theresa has begun work at WDAV, she has been pleased with the work and the adjustment to Davidson life.
While programming itself is “only five percent inspiration and 95 percent tedium,” she has particularly enjoyed working with people in
the arts and interviewing visiting artists. Theresa thinks this aspect of her work is the most exciting thing about her
job. On the negative side, however, she is “not looking forward to dealing with those [listeners] who prefer light, easy-listening
music,” as opposed to an intelligent mix of styles of serious music.

As for Davidson itself, Theresa said she likes “college towns and pretty campuses with big oak trees.” While she was
at first appalled that she couldn’t find Boston lettuce, she finally found some, so she thinks she will adjust well
to Davidson.

By Jonathon Glance ’83.

Tom Kazee has found the good environment for doing his research. He also felt that the community would be a
good place in which to raise his one-year-old son, Geoffry, and his three-year-old daughter, Nicole, of whom he says: “She
makes going home fun sometimes.”

D’ Kazee’s impressions of Davidson so far have been “very positive.” He has especially been impressed by the way people
in both the college and the community go out of their way to help newcomers.

D’ Kazee is currently teaching Political Parties and Interest Groups and Public Opinion and Ideology Formation. Next term he will
lead a seminar in American Politics and a course on Congress and the Presidency.

By Elizabeth Laughlin ’85.
