Mary Shaffer leads First Richardson in the tug-of-war during the freshman regatta.

DAVIDSONIAN
Friday, 18 September 1981

Harriers lose tight three-way race
by John Hoots ’82

The Davidson men’s cross country team narrowly lost a race to the wire Saturday against Western Carolina and the University of South Carolina at Spartanburg. The host Wildcats finished last in the three-way season opener, with the Western Carolina Catamounts winning laurels in the 40-42-43 race. Coach Sterling Martin had expected a close meet with Western but admitted he was “surprised” by the strength of the USCS squad.

Sophomore Frank “Fat Man” Ivey paced the Cats, finishing first for Davidson and fifth overall with a time of 34:28. Ivey’s mark was 22 seconds better than DC team captain Randy “Old Man” McManus, who placed right behind the Fat Man. McManus was the pre-race favorite, but he developed cramps and was forced off the pace. Jack Smith, Garry Sullivan, Jim Trotter, and John Rus rounded out the top Wildcat finishers.

Seniors McManus and Danny Armistead (who was recovering from Saturday’s MCATs) normally pace the Wildcat workouts and should be back in form for tomorrow’s away meet with Duke. The Blue Devil Harriers easily took the race a year ago. The Lady Cats return a nearly complete squad from last year for their opener in Durham. Led by sophomore Tamara Foreman, the women roughed up Duke last year but expect stiffer competition this season.

Soccer team off to a slow start
by Mark Elmore ‘82

At a glance, it appears as though the Davidson Soccer Team is in for a rough season. This is only Coach Slagle’s second year, the team’s defense lost four perennial starters, and last year’s recruiting failed to attract any world-famous talent. With these factors considered, how could this team win a tournament including Hampden-Sydney, Christopher Newport, and High Point on September 5 and 6?

For starters, the Cats are intelligent and can verbally coerce their opponents into lying down and letting them walk the ball into the net. Second, they all speak English and lack the communications problems that beset their big-budgeted opponents who purchase their soccer machines from caves in the Congo and sequestered villages in the Andes.

In the first game, it was Chucky Price that beat the soccer machines from Hampden-Sydney with two beautifully placed direct kicks—a game winner in the overtime that floated over the opponent's wall and into the net’s upper right corner. Following their 2-1 win over Hampden-Sydney Saturday, Davidson faced High Point in the finals Sunday. A bit sluggish from their previous match, the Cats’ defense allowed High Point the first goal. But with a fury similar to last year’s, Chris Roberts took the ball down the left wing and blew in a reamer to tie.

This game went into overtime, which added two ten-minute periods of play. After the extra minutes, the game was still tied. To decide the outcome, five players were chosen from each squad to shoot penalty kicks. With the kicks at Davidson 3, High Point 2, and one kicker left...On each team, Chuck Price blasted in the fourth to secure a Davidson victory. Tuesday, the Cats arrived in Raleigh victorious but apprehensive about their match with N.C. State, who has the money to find and buy expensive soccer machines. In fact, State is predicted to be in the top 10 teams in the country this season. Well, we got killed, but there were bright spots. Though the final score was 5-0, the Cats dominated play for 20 minutes in the second half and Slagle was able to do extensive experimenting and substituting.

Saturday’s game at Guilford proved disheartening for Davidson since they played poorly and lost 3-0. “It was just one of those days,” admitted Bill Wall. “We were beaten to the ball all over the field, it was terribly hot, and they played very dirty.”

Wednesday night at Appalachian State (the Southern Conference powerhouse) went much better. Although the Cats lost 2-0, everyone hustled and worked well together. In three years ASU has outscored the Cats about twenty to one, so a 2-0 loss is quite admirable. Chris Roberts believed the game to be the year’s best. “Davidson was attacking the entire game. Only two shots within ten yards made the difference. We dominated the game pace and forced them to respect us.” In the past, the Apps have controlled the game pace at will. This year their coach admitted that Davidson had forced them to play at Davidson’s pace, something that is not common on the astroturf in Boone or elsewhere. The team's play together impressed all the seniors and greatly pleased Slagle. With a completely new set of defenders and the offensive punch of Roberts and C.K. Nichols, the team works quite well. Several seniors even admitted that it is the best soccer team that Davidson has fielded. Well, I don’t believe it guys. You are going to have to show me.

A play that worked

This play was successful five out of six times against Newberry, for an average of fifteen yards per carry. It worked twice against Wofford as well for two key first downs.

1. The quarterback takes the snap and fakes a hand-off to the fullback.
2. Then hands off to the halfback.
3. The halfback runs right while the quarterback bootlegs left.
4. The halfback hands off to the wingback.
5. Who reverses direction to the left, following the lead block of the tight end.

Watch for this play in either direction in upcoming games.

The Chef’s Cap / La Toque BLANCHE
127 DEPOT STREET
P.O. BOX 601
DAVIDSON, NC 28036
(704) 892-2412

Now serving lunch 12—2 Monday through Thursday
—Soups 75¢ to $1.25
—Breads 25¢ to 75¢
—Desserts 75¢ to $1.50
Homemade
Different menu every day

No Investment!
Professional Sales Help Provided!
Incentive Programs!
Sell over 60 Brands!
BE YOUR OWN BOSS!
Call or Write
Serious Inquiries ONLY!
AUDIO OUTLET, INC.
Newark, NJ 07102