— Art Review January 23, 1981—The Davidsonian—11

‘Rooms’ is both comic, sublime

By JOHN MILLER MAYFIELD
Staff Correspondent

Filling a room with ‘‘Rooms” is the most ambitious and progressive exhibition in Chambers Gallery to date. Art Professor Herb Jackson, Gallery chairman, presented four Charlotte artists with the program of developing three-dimensional artworks based on their individual ideas of rooms. According to the Gallery’s posted introduction to the exhibition, ‘‘There were no guidelines imposed other than the dimensions of each space and a request that the projects not be dangerous to the gallery or the gallery’s visitors.’’

Upon entering the Gallery, one is immediately pulled toward Richard Stenhouse’s super-realistic bedroom. Every bit of the familiar collegiate clutter invites inquiry. It is as if we have been allowed to pry into every detail of someone’s very personal space. Stenhouse defines that space with the placement of a rumpled bed that looks like its occupant has just drowsily departed. Every surface is covered with the paraphernalia of daily life. Strewn across the room are yesterday’s underwear, half-read books, half-eaten boxes of crackers, a discomforting alarm clock, and thousands of pennies emptied daily from pockets. Some objects are especially humorous like the crazy Christmas card with a punk rock child on Santa’s lap, or the note bearing the aphorism, ‘‘a slip knot will do the job nicely.” Stenhouse’s room works quite well as humor, but a viewer may ask, ‘What makes this room, the replica of my dorm room, a piece of art?’’ It is true that every object exhibited is a real something, except perhaps the illusionistic window sill and frame. Stenhouse has played with, developed, and intellectualized over each object so that he has produced a highly individualized arrangement. The idea and the act of the creation make it artistically valuable.

Clara Couch’s room does not have to be defended in the same way as did Stenhouse’s for hers is an abstraction. The hanging narrow gauzy panels that softly flutter in the breeze (provided by a powerful heater) give the needed sense of enclosure. Bone-colored concave porcelain discs and cracked irregular containers float at various levels in space, lending a sense of a veiled mysterious atmosphere. Other, flatter discs, have a grainy sand-like interior texture that has been washed in light shades of oranges, greys, and blues upon which rest small animal bones, thin sticks, cracked skulls and shells, kidney-shaped rocks, and a dead mouse. At intermediate levels hang two empty concave discs glazed grey-black. Still lower are larger, more distorted circular containers made of the same bone-colored porcelain. The texture is the same as before but now the cracked forms reveal much more complicated contents. One has a tiny maze-like construction that echoes ancient cliff dwellings, the other has a chalice-like object accompanied by a three-dimensional black heart. A soft yellowish-golden light diffuses the floating discs, creating interesting shadows and also unifying the space. This most successful of the rooms whispers and waits for a listener.

Paul Harcharik’s room appears as a surrealistic dining room. Two rather simple and worn white chairs support a natural stretched canvas that symbolizes a dining table with a white cloth. The surrealism comes when one recognizes the absence of any table legs that should emerge from beneath the white horizontal surface. On that surface rest two candlesticks and a plate of fruit in a very formal arrangement. A raised white platform supports the displayed objects and is at the same time the most successful solution for the problem caused by the Gallery’s displeasing floor surface. The platform also creates a distance by not allowing the spectator to move within the room. The artist has not attempted to enclose the space in any manner which also negates the sense of a room. The result is merely a pure object, not really a room. The light and its corresponding shadows are most sophisticated and most interesting. Two rows of lights, at either end of the object, are projected through blue, orange, and pink filters that cast symmetrical colored shadows that radiate out from the objects such as the candlesticks. The light is a definite plus for this at-first-glance-interesting-but-not-lastingly-intriguing object.

The mirror-like but velvety smooth surfaces of Mary Mintich’s room are seductively interesting. The room’s major elements, the four human-height sheet metal constructions, are in actuality very sharp forms, but the matte surface of the highly polished metal, the distorted reflections, and the almost melting bends at the corners overpower the sharpness, leaving a feeling of softness. The light plays in the corners of the bent metal constructions, casting fuzzy shadows that hover and further the sense of softness. Five unexciting red enamel squares, with their dappled colors and circular shapes, float an inch or two above the cheap grey carpeting which unpleasantly distracts from the metal’s rich surface. At one end of the room is a tall reflective metal column around which two more red squares are placed, creating an interesting reflection. The height of the column and the corresponding four metal forms do not enclose the overall space that makes this monumental, unsophisticated room.

Bio Professor against microscope theft. David Grant checks cupboard door that was insufficient safeguard (John Ruppenthal)

Disappearing Microscopes (Continued from page 1)

The burglar took the microscopes and illuminators out of the building in a large cardboard box that disappeared at the same time. He is surprised that the thief did not take a fourth microscope instead of the illuminators, which are far less valuable. For this reason, Grant thinks the thief’s intention may not be to resell the equipment, but to stock alaboratory. "While no institution is going to attempt to equip its laboratories by 'direct acquisition,' misguided individuals might from time to time try to redistribute equipment from one institution to another," he said. Whoever took the biology equipment chose the perfect time, for the janitors and faculty were at lunch and only one class was being held in the building. The burglar either knew where to look or was lucky to find the second microscopes because they were in "closed cupboards in a laboratory that isn’t used that much," Grant said. As a result of the thefts, the departments may be forced to reduce the equipment and laboratory hours available to students. Due to an inadequate amount of secure storage space, entire rooms may be locked to safeguard equipment, Grant said. He emphasized, however, that it is "important for students to be able to work with the material... to study in the lab... We want to keep the facilities available." Grant suggested locking the side entrances and posting a work-study student in the lobby to check people entering and leaving the building as an alternative to closing labs. The White laser, about two inches square and eighteen inches long, is inoperable with a key that White still has. It has five times the power of the department’s two remaining lasers and was used in labs and for demonstrations of holograms.

(Continued from page 1) Sunday brunch would be available, Packer said. Packer thinks the Commons will improve the food service by providing a more relaxed atmosphere. Also, the large, comfortable facility will be suitable for special events. Tuesday the student food committee went on a tour of the Commons with Packer, Currie, and Slater Manager Barry Cheatham. They then toured ARA’s present facilities in Bailey and Richards Eating houses. Because of inadequate storage space, beer, milk, and other beverages must now be refrigerated in a truck parked outside. "Food to be stored must be loaded through the basement window and cooks have to work in an area half the size of kitchens in Patterson Court houses. I don’t see how you can work in conditions like these," a committee member remarked. Packer said he looks forward to the move into the Commons. "I think we will be able to do more for everybody in the community."

Class of ‘85 (Continued from page 1) women and 22 men this year. Freshmen women will continue to live in Richardson dorm, Terry said, but the basement will house only upperclassmen next year. Freshmen will live on the first three floors of Belk, with upperclassmen in the basement and on the fourth floor. Terry said he knew nothing of the possibility of a change in the male/female ratio. He emphasized, however, that the number of hall counselors is still tentative and more could be added if needed. "It is easier to select a small number of applicants and use the alternates than it is to select a large group and then tell someone that he or she can’t be a hall counselor," Terry said.

Curriculum Focus (Continued from page 1) the history of the Davidson curriculum," according to Religion Professor and former committee member Max Polley. For the first time no student was required to take any single course. Instead, a series of area requirements was instituted, a structure that remains essentially intact today. Davidson for the first time required all students to take a course in the fine arts, and the South Asian Studies program was inaugurated. The Blue Sky Curriculum also implemented a "three track" system aimed at allowing students more independence in planning their course work. Students could take regular courses, design independent projects, or enroll in the newly created Honors College, now the Center for Special Studies. Perhaps the most innovative change was the institution of reading lists in each of the four curricular areas. Students took a reduced course load during spring term so as to allow time to complete the readings. The Blue Sky curriculum required each student to pass four comprehensive exams based on the lists for the four areas. Difficulty in designing tests and a significant degree of student opposition, though, forced the faculty to repeal the reading list concept in 1970. "It was a fine educational ideal but there were just many problems with it," said Burts. There have been few attempts to revise the Blue Sky curriculum since 1970. A proposal to require one non-western course failed by a narrow majority to meet faculty approval two years ago. Former History Professor Brown Patterson commented at the time that he expected similar proposals to come before the faculty "in two or three years," a prediction that has been fulfilled in the proposals submitted by the EPC to the faculty this fall. Few professors have expressed strong dissatisfaction with the present curriculum. "The overall structure is about right," Polley said. "What the EPC proposals call for are improvements in the present structure." "While we need to maintain the basic flexibility we now have, we also need courses introducing students to the basic methodologies of the sciences, humanities, and social sciences." Polley added that "it’s difficult to teach an upper-level course when only part of the class has mastered the vocabulary and basic assumption of a discipline." Bliss noted that "the desire for electives must be balanced with the desire for community learning. There is a great deal to be said for a common body of knowledge shared by all students." "The pendulum is swinging back toward greater structure in education, and I think we are where that pendulum is swinging," Polley concluded.