March 20, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

The Moral Majority combines bad religion with bad politics

Nick Graham

To an Englishman about to travel to the New World for the first time, newspaper reports concerning the political mobilization and electoral muscle of American fundamentalist Christians seemed slightly bizarre, removed from the realities of Mrs. Thatcher's recession. However, now that the debate on the "Moral Majority" and the "New Right" has spilled over into these columns (note Tripp Robinson’s article "Moral Majority stands for Decency, Privacy," The Davidsonian, Feb. 13), it no longer seems impertinent for a guest in this country, himself a citizen of a state which boasts an established church, to offer some thoughts on the relationship between religious and political belief.

I should point out that as a liberal Anglican and an unconvinced social democrat, I am a member of a church which has a long history of political action—both of the left and the right—and a citizen of a country which has never made the slightest attempt to separate the concerns of church and government. It is with both political and religious concern that I view the growth and energetic posturings of Mr. Falwell’s "Majority."

Two points in Mr. Robinson's article especially beg exception. First, the claim, always suspect in polemical writing, that "the vast majority" of people share one’s views. In the Charlotte Observer of Feb. 9th, Lamarr Mooneyham, leader of the N.C. chapter of the Moral Majority, claimed a membership of 7,000 in the state and added that there were 35 similar organizations in the country—that is, not even one per state. At one time the term "pressure group" was considered more appropriate for such numbers; certainly the word "majority" is tantamount to misrepresentation by any normal arithmetic, however smoothly the syllables may trip off the tongue.

Secondly, regarding the Majority’s claim that they are a widely-based organization: their grassroots membership may well be so, but it is their leaders, free-church fundamentalist clergy, who seem to be best known to the public: in British newspapers, spokesman Rev. Dan Fore was reported as saying "Jews control New York...with their almost supernatural ability to make money." Politics, after all, is the art of the possible; religion that of the absolute. Perhaps they do not blur so closely after all.

Whether or not The First Amendment rules out religious bodies involving themselves in politics—in fact a cursory reading suggests that it does not, and besides the more liberal churches have been doing it for years with a free conscience—the unedifying spectacle of the less vertebrate elements of the liberal intelligentsia howling in protest at this practice is dubious to the point of hypocrisy. It also leaves unanswered the single most obnoxious facet of the "Christian Right's" political involvement: the invidious assumption that they have a divinely-apportioned monopoly upon religious rectitude and, ipso facto, political correctness.

Central to this equation is Mr. Falwell’s characterization of biblical exegesis as "an exact science." If we all agree that the Scripture is the uniquely inspired word of God—which of course it is—then, so the argument goes, we will all arrive at precisely the same answers as to the nature of God, Man’s fallen condition, and the priorities of personal morality. Quite apart from the fact any vestige of "freedom of choice"—touchstone of much of the "Christian Right’s" recent propaganda—goes smartly out of the window as soon as this theological totalitarianism is accepted, this raises the possibility of an unsavory equation between political opposition and religious faith: the history of the Christian Democratic Party's stranglehold upon Italian politics or the religious element in Anglo-Irish relations are a dire warning to anyone who views this possibility with glee.

Moreover, to seek justification for any narrow political platform in a book which has in the past been used to sanction the tyranny of monarchical theocracy, our own democratic pluralism, as well as the theology of liberation, is unwise in the extreme. Mr. Falwell may believe that the nuclear family, anti-abortion laws, censorship of educational materials, supply-side economics, and the proliferation of nuclear arms are all divinely ordained, but if he does, then 2,000 years of Western Christian history effectively give him the lie.

In fact, the historical and intellectual background to the "Majority" are of much more recent provenance, being associated with the development of...The Protestant work ethic and the concomitant rise of merchant capitalism. These intertwined phenomena exhibit a very neat ideological dovetailing of God’s rewards for virtuous toil and the exploitation of capitalist investment too lengthy to be entered into here. It may, however, provide a plausible explanation of one aspect of the Majority’s activities which had hitherto baffled me, and to which I shall return in a moment: their apparent acceptance of a healthy degree of materialism in a religion otherwise sternly eschatological and judgmental. Equally disturbing to me as a liberal Anglican is the Fundamentalist insistence upon a rigidly literalist interpretation of the Book, which not only goes against the mainstream of Western theological tradition but also reduces honest dissent—a position much-loved by the Founding Fathers—to the evil of damnable heresy. Moreover, Falwell’s purveying of an Old Testament legalistic and judgmental theology more concerned with imposing the burden of sin upon others than with relieving it, says little of the loving and liberational ministry of Jesus Christ, which I at least thought was the main concern of the Christian message. Still, let he who is without sin, etc., etc.

Further, a detailed look at some of the policies and beliefs which the “Christian Right” have espoused show little to recommend them to me as a Christian. The resurgence in feeling against the depredations of communism—or any ideology of the left—while evidently approving of American support of institutionalized tyranny in Latin America entirely and conveniently ignores the work of other Christians to relieve suffering and human bondage in the Third World. Another facet of this lamentable parochiality is their apparent equation of the Kingdom of God with the values of the American bourgeois lifestyle of which they are exponents. As a European who has witnessed the erosion of his native culture by the meretricious trivia of Americanization, I find this both condescendingly insulting and spiritually immature. Associated with this insistence upon these ideals is the distinct streak of materialism which I mentioned earlier. At its most respectable, it is characterized by the current Gadarene rush to embrace “supply-side” economics, i.e., precisely the policies which have ruined my own country in the last two years, and which have contributed to the loss of human dignity of several million British workers. At the other end of the scale, this materialism tends to amount to the vague hope that because my friends all drive Porsches, the Lord will therefore buy me a Mercedes-Benz.

On the subject of censorship of educational materials and syllabuses—the example of the fight to ban Brave New World in Iredell County this winter will suffice—it is reasonable to expect responsible adults to feel concern for the education which their children receive, yet the pedagogues of the Christian Right conveniently forget to represent the views of those who wish to have their children fully understand sexuality, the dangers of totalitarian conformity, and the benefits to be gained from non-sectarian liberal education which teaches minds that they should think, not what they should think.

Finally, among the back-slapping last November 4th (on television Falwell was talking in almost millennial terms, evidently forgetting the sage dictum of a British Prime Minister that a week was a long time in politics); it occurred to me that the Moral Majority—or political-religious zealots of any sort—should beware lest in so assiduously subscribing to a particular party line they make the error of effectively prostituting their religion to the demands of political belief. Politics, after all, is the art of the possible; religion that of the absolute. Perhaps they do not blur so closely after all.

Nick Graham is a graduate of Cambridge University in English Literature spending a year at Davidson. He is a member of the Anglican Church and voted for Labour in the last general election.