March 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—9

‘On the road again’: musicians play away their break

Mardi Gras, fried chicken: delight ensembles

This spring, five ensembles—the Wind Ensemble, the Jazz Ensemble, the Flute Choir, and the Horn Choir—mounted their most ambitious tour
in recent memory: six days, five cities, and two thousand miles through seven states. Mr. Donald Plott was responsible for
getting Davidson musical ensembles into the habit of touring. For many years, though, only the Male Chorus toured consistently.

Yearly instrumental ensemble touring during spring break had its modern-day renaissance in 1978 during Music Professor William Lawing’s first year
at Davidson. That year the wind and jazz ensembles traveled to Washington, D.C., and several locations in Virginia. Subsequent tours
were to Florida (1979) and Tennessee (1980). This is the story of this year’s tour for the ensembles’ 49 brave
souls and their slightly mad leader.

Saturday, February 28—Our bus was scheduled to roll at 10:30 am. We leave at 11:40, headed for Marietta, Georgia. The
main order of business is sleeping: everyone had practiced three hours or more the day before, and exams had taken
their toll. We arrive at Marietta’s First Presbyterian Church at 5:30 and are fed fried chicken, mashed potatoes, and other
goodies. The show that evening and the entire tour are dedicated to Mr. Plott. The stage is the size of
a postage stamp. One of the reasons for the tour is to recruit future freshmen, and that is a big
reason why the ensembles are in Marietta: the Atlanta area always sends many people to Davidson. Before and after the
show, Dr. Lawing talks to students and their parents about Davidson.

Sunday, March 1—We leave Marietta at 8:30 am, headed for Montgomery. We arrive at Huntingdon for our 5 pm show—prime
time on Sunday for—you guessed it—eating. About a dozen people are there for the show. Another purpose of the tour
is to entertain alumni, and that is the group’s mission Monday night in New Orleans. The Jazz Ensemble, Flute Choir,
and the Horn Choir are to perform at the Delmonico on St. Charles Street, site of a New Orleans-area alumni
gathering. Chalmers Davidson is there, dispensing his usual good humor.

Monday-Tuesday, March 2-3—We are out bright and early on Tuesday, Mardi Gras proper. We see the Zulu parade at the
Delmonico, and then most of us wander the five or so blocks down to the French Quarter. Most of us
go to Pat O’Brien’s on St. Peter Street.

(See page 10)

Southern hospitality and griefs greet Women’s Chorus

By SUSAN EGLIN
Staff Correspondent

After exams were over most Davidson students headed to the beaches of Florida, to the slopes of Colorado, or to
hearth and home in search of summer employment; however, the 22 members of the Davidson Women’s Chorus spent their break
on a whirlwind tour of the Southeast. Despite financial difficulties, the Music Department sent three of its musical groups on
Spring concert tours. While these trips may seem to be free vacations to New York City or New Orleans, they
actually serve the College by providing contact with distant alumni and by recruiting new students.

Saturday afternoon found us bound for Atlanta’s Central Presbyterian Church. We spent the long bus ride rehearsing for Sunday’s worship
service and getting lost in a maze of one-way streets in downtown Atlanta. One of our own members provided comic
relief in what had grown into a difficult situation (we had missed our scheduled arrival time by one hour) when
she took it upon herself to move a car which, with its keys in the ignition, was parked in the
way of our bus. Some minor mishaps arise without fail at every performance—the piano was out of tune, the mikes
didn’t work, a chorus member tripped during a performance. In the case of the Sunday morning worship service, we were
locked out of the enclosed choir loft after the service was underway. Maybe they were trying to tell us something?

A Sunday evening concert in Birmingham brought us to the Seventy-sixth Street Presbyterian Church. While the city was probably the
least glamorous place we visited, this church’s congregation was the most hospitable. Our hostfamilies were gracious even when it came
to delivering the chorus members to the church Monday morning at 6:15 for the marathon bus ride to Winter Garden,
Florida. Stopping at McDonald’s for lunch, we continued to play their Build a Big Mac Contest in hopes of winning
$100,000 to pay for next year’s tour. (See page 10)

Exams behind them, Male Chorus heads North with a song in their hearts
By GLENN KELLUM
Features Editor

A good many students were still in Chambers laboring over exams. Some students were preparing for another exam that afternoon.
The atmosphere was tense with study, and by and large the campus was quiet. Even amid this stillness, however, thirty
Davidson men were hurrying toward the Fine Arts building with a suitcase and hanging bag in hand. Some, like myself,
had just finished taking their last exam. Others had slept late that day—having finished their exams the previous day—but nevertheless
were still in a hurry. We had all gathered to embark on yet another Davidson College Male Chorus Spring Tour.

From the start, this year’s tour was to be different. Mr. Plott had resigned in early January, and for the
first time in his thirty years at Davidson, he would not be with the chorus on tour. Since the fall
of 1980, Mr. Plott had been battling with a brain tumor, which finally caused him to step down as music
director. Shortly before 1:00 p.m., Music Professor Wilmer Welsh gathered the chorus together and told us that Mr. Plott had
died. The chorus members and everyone else involved decided the tour should go on as scheduled. We knew Mr. Plott
would have wanted it that way. So we picked ourselves up and pushed on to the bus, feeling reasonably assured
that this was the right thing to do.

Since January, our director has been Dr. Mary Nell Saunders, who also assumed Mr. Plott’s positions as director of the
Charlotte Oratorio Singers and the choir at Trinity Presbyterian Church. Charlotte Symphony conductor Leo Driehuys said Saunders “has a lot
of energy and she’s very warm.” Although Saunders had never taken a tour with the Male Chorus, she had been
adequately forewarned about the usual bus antics and heaps of college humor which were in store.

Our first stop was Chatham, Virginia. We were to sing at Chatham Hall, a private girls’ high school. For a
community of girls with hardly any male visitors, our arrival was a great event. As one chorus member said of
his short walk around the campus, “I was suddenly interrupted by shouts from a second-story dorm room window. When I
turned to look, I took a double take, because what greeted my eyes were not two faces, but four cheeks.”
The concert that evening was a required function for the girls. Needless to say, the atmosphere in the campus chapel
was akin to a pep rally. Musically, the concert was not one of our best, but first night concerts are
always a bit shaky.

The next day we left for Washington, D.C. Our concert there was much better. One reason was the church wasn't
filled with 100 screaming male-starved girls. Another reason was that we were more relaxed and comfortable with the concert program,
which includes such composers as Buxtehude, Handel, Byrd, and Brahms.

After Washington, we left for a free day in New York. Some went to the Frick Museum. Others went to
the Empire State Building. Five or six chorus members went to Broadway shows. When we left the Big Apple, we
headed for Boston, which the natives call the “intellectual center of the U.S.” Although the concert went fairly well, the
audience was a typically stiff Boston crowd. You know the kind—no smiles, no applause, just blank faces.

From there we went to Princeton; then to Milford, Delaware; then to Norfolk, Virginia; and we ended the tour at
the Great Hall of the Wren Building in Williamsburg. On the ferry crossing the James River after leaving Williamsburg, the
chorus congregated at one end of the boat and sang the Alma Mater. Most of us didn’t think then why
we sang. But thinking back now, I can pretty well guess. We didn’t want to quit. We had to find
some way to sing again. We weren’t really performing for anyone but ourselves. We felt wonderful.

Concert Friday, 8:15 p.m., Hodson Hall.
