Lehigh’s pon-athho ars!

team gives Davidsonva Dickens of a time

It was the best of times, it was the worst of times

as Lehigh cased the Cats 68-0.

Although Ellen Field and many others are asking the question, “Why do we play Lehigh?,” there is perhaps a more
relevant question: “Why is Lehigh so good?” The obvious answer is, “Because they give scholarships.” Wrong. Lehigh does not give
scholarships in any sport. So why is Lehigh so good?

Coach Ed Farrell says tradition; however, tradition does not build a football program. The University also offers ten to twelve
senatorial scholarships a year to incoming freshmen, and these “very often go to athletes.”

Still, tradition and $20,000 in scholarships don’t create a team that can outscore Davidson (which offers $80,000 in Wildcat Club
grants) 155-42 across four Octobers. Aside from their beating Ivy League Penn 58-0 and perennial 1-AA powerhouse Delaware 48-21 at
Delaware, the only two losses have come at the hands of Division I Colgate (27-14) and New Hampshire (13-12), both
on the road. How do they do it?

Pennsylvania and New Jersey are excellent high school football areas. Those guys who can’t go to Pitt or Penn State
go to Lehigh. Need scholarships are better accepted up North as well. And Lehigh is three times the size of
Davidson and academically a notch lower.

All that was the problem Saturday. Davidson doesn’t have all that. It was something of the reverse of the Davidson-BU
game. “They jumped on us early, and we got confused.”

Lehigh ran the opening kickoff back for good field position, and it wasn’t too much later that wide receiver Dan
Ryon stood in the end zone with the ball. Worse yet, he reached the end zone with the ball twice
more before the first quarter was over.

Quite naturally, the Wildcat defense started questioning the game plan, and for good reason. It wasn’t working. It called for
lots of blitzing, leaving easy-to-beat one-on-one coverage in the secondary, and the Lehigh offense cranked it up. The defense stared
loosely covered. By halftime it was 49-0. Lehigh scored on every single possession.

Lehigh had no qualms about running up the score, either. They’re looking for a bid to the I-AA tournament, and
since they’ve lost twice, they’re headhunting. Up until the start of the first quarter, the Engineers scored on every possession.

But tomorrow, Furman comes to town, and it would be a far, far better thing for the football team to
do if they would forget Lehigh and concentrate on the Paladins. It has traditionally been a wide-open rivalry, with games
of 77-14 (Davidson, 1969), 35-34 (Davidson, 1973), and the NCAA record-breaking 63-55 (Furman, 1979). Last year, Furman won 21-7.

The Paladins, who are in the running for the Southern Conference crown, feature a balanced running attack with two tailbacks
named Stanford Jennings and Brothel (Broth-el) Cole. With names like that, you know they can run.

By Steve Soud '84

Hockey tops Wake; loses to High Point

Davidson's hockey team won one game and lost one game in the North Carolina AIAW meet last Thursday and Friday.
The Cats defeated Wake Forest 3-1, and fell to High Point, 1-3.

Though Davidson dominated for most of the game, Wake Forest led at the half with one goal. “We figured we
could beat Wake,” explained freshman Kara Gilmore, “so when we realized at half-time that we were behind, we really got
fired up.” Sophomore Courtney Hall scored two goals in the second half of the game, and Hamilton added another.

Davidson’s Amy Sweet scored in the first 20 minutes of the High Point game, but the Cats were caught off-balance
as High Point countered with a goal of their own just moments later. Eight minutes before the end of the
half, High Point scored again. “They really pressured our defense in the first half,” said coach Dee Mayes, “but we
were stronger in the second half. We took numerous shots on their goal.”

Despite an aggressive offense, however, Davidson failed to score in the second half. High Point scored once more, ten minutes
before the end of the game. Friday’s game ended 3-1, as did the Cats' last regular season game against High
Point. “The score doesn’t show how much closer a game this was,” said Mayes, “the team played super.”

In order to let the team rest up, Davidson declined to play in the Deep South Tournament last weekend. They
are going to Regionals, where their first game is against (once again) High Point. They play at 4 p.m. this
afternoon at Hollins College. They're tested; they’re playing well; and they have a good attitude or as Kara put it,
“As soon as we get past High Point, it’ll be smooth sailing for the rest of Regionals.”

By Jim Northrup '82
