THE DAVIDSONIAN

Athletics: Bad Atmosphere

The dismissal of basketball coach Eddie Biedenbach has led to a barrage of name-calling and ugly rumors. With Rupert Murdochian
zest, the press has scrutinized the College. They call Davidson a “graveyard for coaches,” and they describe the basketball program
as suffering from “an inner cancer.” Whether Biedenbach merited dismissal, we cannot judge. But his firing is just another of
a series of eyebrow-raising events in the athletic department's recent past. There have been a remarkable number of such events
in the past two years.

For example, in December 1979, the College dismissed soccer coach Karl Kremser. Kremser appealed his dismissal. His players divided, attacking
or defending him vehemently. Rumors flew. Finally, Kremser left. He was subsequently chosen Southern Conference Soccer Coach of the Year.

Last March, Athletic Director Thomas Cartmill abruptly resigned. He was given the Physical Education Director Sterling Martin’s job, while Martin
became director of the lake campus. Again, rumors flew.

There have also been instances of tension between intercollegiate coaches and athletes not involved in intercollegiate athletics. Last Spring several
assistant football coaches cursed and kicked the club soccer team off a practice field. This winter Athletics Director Gene Bingham
abruptly moved many of the weights to a room reserved for intercollegiate athletes. Meanwhile, people using the remaining weights are
often ordered out prior to the gym’s appointed closing time, and on one occasion they were chased out so that
the basketball team could have a place to mope.

We cite these examples not to exacerbate the problem, but to show its extent. Every department has its ups and
downs. But this is a consistent pattern of confusion and tension in the athletics department. Last year, when $85,000 was
cut out of the athletics budget, some members of the department complained of the psychological strain the money shortage would
cause. But the problem is not purely money. The $85,000 cut administrative costs, did not actually lower the total amount
spent on athletics.

Nor is the problem purely pressure to win. Eddie Biedenbach just led the basketball team to its best season in
years. It goes deeper, to the relationships and attitudes of the members of the department.

Last year, while conducting interviews in the athletics department, we were struck by the unusually high level of discontent among
coaches, administrators and even secretaries. Such discontent affects the way the department deals with students and staff.

It is time for the Administration to examine the operation of the athletics department more carefully. If the College is
to get its full potential out of its athletics staff and facilities, the atmosphere must be a happier and more
open one.

—Elizabeth Kiss

No Gratuitous Violence

Students here tend to regard themselves as a sort of moral elite. We are a “Christian community” abiding by the
precepts of the Honor Code. It is therefore a nasty surprise to find that Davidson students throw concrete slabs down
stairwells and hurl grates through windows. Yet these are just a few examples of vandalism Housing Director Bill Bolding cites
in his letter to freshman hall counselors. (see article page 2)

Vandalism is gratuitous violence. Even graffiti communicates something, but vandalism of the slab-throwing sort only says, “I destroy.”

If our daily stress is so great that we must release tension by wreaking havoc, then it is time to
reexamine our lifestyles. If destruction is our idea of fun on a tipsy Friday night, then it is time to
reexamine our values.

Obviously only a small percentage of the student body actually vandalizes property. But that minority could jeopardize some of the
most special characteristics of Davidson. Visit a large school, with its locked classroom buildings, curfews, and “keep off the grass”
signs, and Davidson's distinction becomes apparent. How long can this campus retain its relatively rule-free atmosphere if the incidence of
vandalism grows?

Hall counselors, Housing Directors, and campus policemen can threaten the vandal. But it will be hallmates and roommates who can
effectively prevent the damage.

—Elizabeth Kiss

WELL, SINCE DAD CUT BACK THE JUNGLE FOR ME IN THE GUARANTEED STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM, LOOKS LIKE IT'S BACK TO
THE CAMPUS FORUM

Bathrooms

To the Editor:

We believe Davidson College needs to upgrade the bathroom facilities in Cannon dorm. Two showers, three hooks,one shelf, and one
inaccessible outlet are insufficient for thirty people. We have spent too many mornings waiting in line for the showers only
to find the hot water gone. The inconvenience is only part of the problem. The facility must make a poor
impression on visiting students. Many of these prospectives assume they will spend three years in Cannon. The condition of the
dorms does influence their decision. Although the construction of the new dorms will improve Davidson’s housing situation, this partial solution
is not enough. The old dorms need attention.

Linda Nash ’83
Lisa Robinson ’83
Barbara Kelly ’82
Weezie Mann '81
Tracy Thompson ’83
Ellen Churchill ’83
Beth Herron ’83
Julie Cheney ’82
Sally Campbell ’82
Cathey Bost ’83
Karrie Buckner '83
Catherine McMillan '83

To the Editor:

It was interesting to read the comments on women in the ministry, part of a paper by Ms. Kathryn Murray.
Her research was well presented with only one error: my name was misspelled. Our family name has been both misspelled
and mispronounced since the family came to Mecklenburg County in the 1920s, so I am only surprised to find a
new variation in “Ohen” for ‘Otten’. This too ordinary error does give me the opportunity to offer some unsolicited information
about Calvary Presbyterian Church. We think of ourselves as an old church in Davidson, but realize we are often overlooked
by both town and gown. That comes from living in the usually gracious shadow of our larger and more obvious
sister church, DCPC. Calvary’s history begins in 1890 and is indebted to DC students from its earliest days. Students staffed
this church when it was a Mission Sunday School; students served as pastors when it was organized as Unity Church.
Today DC students are largely unaware that the church they helped develop still exists. Still, remembering that early helpful relationship,
Calvary's members and present pastor invite DC students to rediscover the little church at the end of South Street. We
once again desire to be in touch with the campus, perhaps to serve as a training ground for future church
leaders or as a church home during the college experience. Calvary is a small, intimate, friendly church. We see ourselves
as “the Presbyterian Alternative” in Davidson. If DC students have been looking for a church where they can be part
of the total life of a congregation, we believe Calvary Church may be the right place for them. Come, try
us on for size.

Harriet Otten, Pastor

Hell Week

To the Editor:

Boy, this week has sure been hell. The DulDelts wouldn’t let me off their roof. The Peons made me build
a mountain. The OK’s made me do laps at 2:45 a.m. The SAB’s road-tripped me to L.L. Bean. But when
the Funji tried to road-trip me, it left them in stitches.

— Unidentified pledge

ROTC Ice Cream

To the Editor:

I saw several smiling, tanned faces around campus this week; I'll assume that a majority of the students enjoyed their
spring break. One way to cool off after a hot day’s play in the sun is ice cream, so on
behalf of the R.O.T.C. department and the freshmen cadets, I want to cordially invite the entire freshman class down to
the R.O.T.C. department in Basement Belk and make their own sundae or banana split Monday evening, 16th of March from
1800 to 2000 hours (6-8 p.m. for civilians). We hope you will join us for dessert and take a look
at what we do. Most of us are harmless and the Cadre does not bite, so won't you freshmen come
down?

Brad Perkins '84

ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
DONALD CALDWELL, MARK BARRETT
News editor, Executive editor

GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO
JEFF MANN
Features editors, Managing editor

JAMES BARRAT, DAVID MCCURRY
Opinions editor, editor

DANNY PETER HAIRSTON
Cogito ergo sum editor, Business manager

Sports editor, Advertising manager

Back page editor, Circulation manager

BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, POWERS
KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST
Graphics assistants

LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE WALTER
Production associates

BILL APPLETON, ED DAUGHTERY, JIM RUMLEY
Staff artists

SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD
Darkroom technicians

DAVID BANKS

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic year (except holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College.
Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 (office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription rate:
$8 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson N.C.
