March 27, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

Liberation Theology makes religion meaningful for a troubled world

The recent American interest in the politics of Latin America points up more often than not the ignorance of Americans
concerning the political, social, and economic realities of our neighbors to the south. The temptation, from the U.S. point of
view, is to understand all political conflict within the context of the worldwide struggle of the forces of freedom and
democracy against authoritarian Communism. The occasional reports in the American press of the involvement of priests and nuns in various
Latin American liberation movements have in the past been dismissed as exceptional cases of Marxist-influenced agitation. Today, however, more and
more Americans are becoming aware of, and keenly interested in, the widespread movement in Latin American ecclesiastical circles generally referred
to as liberation theology.

Liberation theology is the most revolutionary articulation of the movement in Christian theological reflection in the last twenty years that
includes political theology and the theology of hope in Europe, and contextual theology, black theology, and feminist theology in this
country. This movement is basically a methodological one, involving a search for new ways to approach and interpret reality and
Christian faith—reality as experienced in the world and faith as discovered in Scripture and in church tradition. The goal of
this approach is the correlation of doctrines of the faith and acts of liberation in history, or Christian praxis.

The new approach was inaugurated in 1969 by Gustavo Gutierrez, who suggested a redefinition of the theological task as critical
reflection on praxis. Gutierrez and his colleagues have since attempted to construct an indigenous theology that is responsive and relevant
to the Latin American experience of economic dependence on the U.S. and the political and economic oppression that is its
result. This attempt has led to the establishment of three basic methodological principles:

1) Dialogue with the “non-human.” Unlike classical theology, which focuses on the non-believer, liberation theology is aimed at the disinherited,
the alienated, the oppressed for whom the Kingdom of God cannot mean a merely spiritual and other-worldly reality.

2) Ideological suspicion. In dialogue with alienated man, one discovers that traditional formulations of Christian theology are simply irrelevant for
the existential situation of the great mass of humanity. It becomes clear that the way the Christian message is interpreted
has a great deal to do with the interpreter’s full or empty stomach. With the principle of ideological suspicion, liberation
theology attempts to identify the particular bias of any given expression of theological truth.

3) A hermeneutic of liberation. An honest theological approach recognizes the impossibility of ideological neutrality. A theology of liberation begins,
then, with a commitment to the oppressed, appropriates the principle of ideological suspicion as it engages in a critical evaluation
of the dominant mode of thought, and finally applies this principle to the fountainhead of Christian faith, the biblical text.
This hermeneutic, or principle of interpretation, uncovers a new and vital message in Scripture: the message of the liberation of
the oppressed.

From this starting point, Latin American theologians have proceeded to redefine the classical themes of Christian theology. A cautious return
to the historical Jesus reveals an individual for whom the liberation of outcasts and the coming of the Kingdom of
God as a radical overturning of the status quo were central. The figure of Christ as the liberating Word of
God points to a God of liberation, active in history, and always concerned with the liberation of his people. The
importance of eschatology as the foundation or decisive, liberating acts in history leading to a meaningful conclusion. Traditional concepts of
grace and salvation are reworked so as to stress the historical, processive, and political nature of human liberation. In at
least one sense, then, this theology is very materialistic in that it is primarily concerned with historical, this-worldly transformation.

Liberation theology attempts to replace the classic formula of St. Anselm, “faith in search of understanding,” with a more complex
relation of faith, historical action (praxis), and understanding. For many Latin American Christians, the knowledge of faith is part and
parcel of historical praxis of liberation which, in a certain context, may mean revolutionary activity. This becomes increasingly evident when
one considers the number of Latin American clerics who have died in the last decade for the cause of the
building of a better, more just society.

What significance does this have for those of us who exist in an entirely different social and political context? If
we are open and willing to adopt a self-critical attitude, it may act as a catalyst in the re-examination of
our economic and political position over against the third world as a whole. Liberation theology presents us with challenges on
a number of different levels, not the least of which concerns the basically captive, bourgeois morality which has surfaced in
this country in the last few years. At least, one hopes, the confrontation may elicit constructive dialogue and a broadening
of the heretofore narrow American perspective.

Chris Elwood is a senior religion major from Clearwater, Florida.

Shades of Red: Communism and Socialism for Laymen

A Little History

Communism is a much older term than socialism. Originally it referred not to an entire social system, but rather to
the pooling of property, usually in consumer goods, by a group of people acting within a given social system. Not
until the dawn of the modern era, with the publication in 1516 of Sir Thomas More’s Utopia, was the idea
of communism as an entireSocial system introduced. The term socialism first appeared in Robert Owen's periodical Co-operative Magazine in 1827.
The word appeared in France soon after among the followers of St. Simon and Charles Fourier. Their ideas came to
be called "Utopian socialism," a term originated by Marx. The revolutionary side of the modern (post-1848) socialist movement developed slightly
earlier than the Utopian socialist movement and remained largely separate from it. The revolutionary groups retained the name communism to
designate their road to the new society. This revolutionary movement had its origin during the French Revolution and was initiated
by Francois Babeuf, and further developed by Sylvain Maréchal, Filippo Michelangelo Buonarroti, and Auguste Blanqui. Babeuf organized the "Conspiracy of
the Equals," a group composed largely of members of the nascent urban proletariat in Paris. Under Babeuf’s plan, "the People,"
or the proletariat, were to seize power, do away with class distinctions, and institute a commonwealth in which there would
be neither rich nor poor.

While these two largely separate movements for social change were developing, two Germans, Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx, were conceiving
of a wholly new system of thought that was to provide both the theory and practice for a much more
effective and successful movement than either that of the Utopian socialists or the French and German communists. When Marx and
Engels were commissioned by the "League of the Just," an organization of exiled German communists, to write a statement of
purpose, they chose the word "Communist" to designate their "Manifesto." Engels later explained that "we could not have called it
a Socialist Manifesto. In 1847 Socialism was a middle-class movement. Communism a working-class movement. Socialism was, on the continent, at
least, respectable. Communism was the very opposite."

By the 1860s, the only popular movement aimed at replacing capitalism was built on Marx’s ideas. When the political parties
were formed in Europe to put Marxism into practice, they took the name "Socialist" or "Social Democratic" Parties. The Marxian
socialist movement was divided from its inception on the matter of tactics. One faction emphasized political action. Another faction emphasized
economic action, primarily in the form of trade unionism. The first approach led to the organization of a labor or
proletarian political party that aimed at electing members of Parliament to pass laws to establish socialism. This approach tended to
emphasize piecemeal reforms, gradualism, and evolution rather than revolution. The second approach involved organizing the proletariat into trade unions to
pursue aims such as higher wages, shorter workdays, and better working conditions. But trade union activities also included education of
workers in the theory and practice of Marxism, so that the proletariat would be ideologically prepared when the time for
a socialist revolution arrived. The stress was on revolution rather than reform.

In the 1870s, the German Social Democratic Party was divided into factions on the basis of these two approaches. These
differences were resolved at a Congress of the Party at Gotha in 1875. A party program was written and adopted
by the Congress, known as the Gotha Program. Marx published his Critique of the Gotha Program soon after. In it,
he gave a brief account of some general characteristics of the social systems today called "socialism" and "communism." Socialism would
emerge from capitalism and retain some of capitalism’s defects and shortcomings. Its fundamental principle would be "from each according to
his ability, to each according to his work." After certain institutional and psychological developments, the society would move into communism,
with its new principle "from each according to his ability, to each according to his needs."

A Little Theory

Socialism and communism have many of the same general characteristics. Socialism implies three essential elements. First, there are no vested
interests in private property. That is to say, no one can use any legal title to land, machines, etc. for
his own benefit. Second, resources are allotted and economic goods produced through a democratically and collectively formulated national economic plan.
Third, the economic goods produced are distributed collectively rather than on an individual basis. The establishment of these elements is
what is meant by a "socialist revolution." The latter two elements resolve the two great contradictions that Marx discovered in
the operation of a capitalist economy, viz., the contradiction between the collective method of production and the individual method of
distribution of the product, and second, the contradiction between the detailed and extensive planning of the operations of a single
business firm and the anarchy that rules the economy as a whole. Abolishing private property removes the cause of "alienation,"
the latter a complex Marxian concept that accounts for the failure of humans to realize their deep and basic humaneness.
In addition, it prevents the exploitation of the working class by propertied capitalists, who pay a minimal wage to laborers
and appropriate the "surplus value" of the goods for themselves.

A communist society, which is to follow and replace the socialist one, contains three additional elements. First, it is egalitarian.
Communist egalitarianism means more than an equal share of economic goods; it also means a situation in which no one,
or any group, feels more important than anyone else or any other group. Second, communist society assumes that the primary
motive for engaging in economic production is ethical and moral rather than material. Third, it is a society of maximum
freedom, giving everyone the opportunity and ability to do what he or she wants to do. It must have been
the above characteristics of socialism and communism that led the late E.F. Schumacher (not a "socialist") to conclude that the
argument for these societies rested on moral and ethical principles, not economics.
