THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Positions for politicians

This year's SGA elections were both heartening and disheartening. It was heartening to see a full slate of candidates for nearly every office and a respectable number of traditionally uncontested positions. We hope finance, athletics, admissions, and counseling. Quantitatively, the elections left little to be desired. But qualitatively, something was missing: candidates who took a stand on issues. Many candidates did indeed cite issues, although few added new ones to the list. President Chip Legerton enumerated in his platform two weeks ago. But instead of making a judgment on issues such as self-selection or campus security, most candidates simply listed the issue and vowed vaguely to “represent student views.”

This demonstrates a most peculiar interpretation of representational government. Normally (or, perhaps, ideally), voters evaluate candidates’ views and then choose which one most nearly “represents” their own viewpoint. Here, instead, we have a group of candidates, each promising to represent student opinion, whatever it is. Which one do you choose? Perhaps the one who sounds most convincingly receptive—or perhaps the one with the most grammatically correct flier.

The mythical beast “student opinion” is an unreliable guide to legislative action. SGA Senators cannot expect this student body to exhibit firm opinions on College policy. Face it, this is not a politically active campus, although student support of the SGA has increased. Most students are, and are likely to remain, noncommittal. If the SGA only seeks to passively relay student views, it will come across sounding noncommittal. This is the pitfall of choosing to take on the “advocate” role. Senators should realize that they must be the most concerned and the best-informed—and the most willing to exercise their conscientious judgment. We hope the new Senators will not be afraid to be genuine advocates.

Policies for people

Imagine you are the caretaker of a garden. The owner comes to you and says, “I may hire a new gardener to replace you. Or, I may keep you on.” Anxiously, you wait to hear if you can stay in your hard-won position. But as the season wears on, the owner continues to mull over his decision.

Colleges across the country are acting the part of the owner toward young professors, and Davidson is no exception. Once again this year, two professors on short-term contracts are still waiting to hear if they will be rehired for the fall. These professors say their position is not unusual in today’s glutted academic market. In fact, they feel fortunate to have been here this long. But, while they accept the academic status quo with good grace, we should look critically at their predicament.

Davidson prides itself on being a concerned community which operates on uncommonly high ethical standards. Subjecting short-term professors to such uncertainty seems to belie those standards. There are many reasons for hiring a professor on a short-term, non-tenure track contract. Sometimes it is unavoidable, as when a senior faculty member goes on sabbatical or a professor resigns too late for the college to conduct a thorough search for a permanent replacement. Of course, short-term appointments are also cheap; desperate academicians will snatch at small bait when they need a job.

Obviously, the college cannot retain every professor it hires. Some will have to go. But, whether they go or stay, they should not be kept dangling till late spring. Such dangling lowers overall faculty morale. Students suffer, too: anxiety is not conducive to good teaching. We suggest the administration adopt a renewal policy sensitive to the needs of both the institution and the professor. Under the policy, the professors would be advised by a specified date of the probability of their renewal, and be given a definite answer by another specified date. The administration would promptly and thoroughly explain any extenuating circumstances to the professors. Maybe other schools do not do this; it does not mean we cannot. Davidson need not sacrifice ethics for excellence.

— Elizabeth Kiss

Somehow, I never expected competition for this job.

—The Campus Forum

Nuked van

To the Editor:

When considering colleges last year, Davidson seemed ideal because of two things: the people and the honor/responsibility codes. Recently, I have become disenchanted with both. On Saturday at about 2 a.m., someone threw a chair out of second east Belk into the parking lot near the laundry, smashing the windshield of my van. Needless to say, I was terribly upset (all expletives deleted). I’m not intent on pressing charges if the person/persons involved turn themselves in to me or to the authorities. I only want my windshield paid for by the responsible party, not by my insurance company. I cannot guarantee their fate if they are caught through some kind of investigation. I would also appreciate anyone with any information getting in touch with me either in person in Belk 060 or by phone at -6534. This is considered a serious breach of the Code of Responsibility.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

sibility and I hope any involved persons will remember their obligation to abide by it. Curtis Whitney Northrup ’84

Submit quick said, "What-ho! Could this signal the arrival of a class magazine suitable for my best works?" It could indeed. What we're offering is a showcase for the best literary, artistic, scientific, and sportive efforts Davidson students can muster. (Just be sure to enclose your name and return address.) So be original. Be creative. Be off-the-wall. Ask a professor for some ideas. Ask your roommate for a pen. Leave behind a legacy in print. Submit. Be published. But hurry. You only have till Monday, April 12.

The Hobart Park people
Box 3052, Davidson

Save the trees
To the Editor:

It seems to me that by now roommates should be able to cooperate with each other well enough to share a newspaper. Your policy of supplying each room with two Davidsonians wastes money, paper, and trees. If someone needs a private copy of the Davidsonian, he can pick one up from the one-and-a-half foot pile in the 'braire. I suggest that the money presently being spent on superfluous Davidsonians be put to better use.

Dan Turk, ’84

To the Editor:

Rick Johnston’s comments last week about campus fliers were well taken. But in suggesting that creativity is better put on bathroom walls than in a magazine, he gave us just too good an opportunity to pass up for plugging Hobart Park. Has Rick ever tried putting short stories on a stall wall? Or maybe a print of his best woodcut? Well, it’s just not that great a medium. And let’s talk circulation. Each dorm stall boasts a readership of up to forty or so, and the preferred rest areas (Chambers, the library, Hardee’s) with greater readership get cleaned regularly. Worse, there’s always the risk that there will be, pointing to your inspired musings, an arrow with the words "What idiot wrote this?" Très embarrassing.

We’re pretty much hoping that closet penmen like Rick have seen our big Hobart Park posters around campus and

Nick’s ticked
To the Editor:

While being one of the first to applaud the Davidsonian’s addressing itself to serious moral issues such as abortion, I was frankly appalled that both of the columns written on the subject last week were by men. While I have no wish to deprive myself of the pleasure of reading Rob Campany’s limpid philosophical prose, it is my own view that it’s an act of extreme arrogance for men to go shooting their mouths off about such when the voices of the people closely affected remain unheard. One is left to draw two conclusions from this: either no woman was asked to write on the subject, or Davidson women have no opinions in the matter whatsoever. In either case, this is a fairly depressing situation.

It seems to be symptomatic of a general lack of awareness of sexual issues on the part of Davidson students, an impression reinforced by two events of the past week: Beth Bryant and Holly Spannuth wrote in last week’s Campus Forum of the startling innovation of asking men out on dates; they sounded as if they had just invented the wheel. Good for them, because there seems to be ample evidence that some of the rest of the population is at a slightly more prehistoric level of development. Witness the inanely puerile "Virginity Poll" conducted outside the Post Office, which betrayed an attitude towards sexuality which I last encountered among nine-year-old schoolboys. One wonders what the reaction of those who dreamt up that poll would have been had a group of girls accosted them and asked them if they were gay or if they masturbated regularly.

On a related topic, I’m similarly surprised at the lack of useful sex-education material at Davidson. The nearest source of readily available advice and information is Planned Parenthood, and they are not currently extremely accessible. One suspects that this is a subject that the SGA or the CCRL or the Infirmary or someone could usefully tackle. Such action would be a sensible beginning on an important and unavoidable issue.

Nick Graham

TIM WH
editor
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO
editors
JAMES BARRAT
LISA BUCKLEY, JEFF DEMPSEY, JULIE G
ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN
Editors
MARGARET JACKSON, Production manager
features editor
FRANCES PALMER, Assistant news editor
MARY BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH FINDLAY, JAMES MOORE, POWERS, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST, BERNADETTE WALTER, Production associates
BILL APPLETON, JIM RUMLEY, Staff artists
SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians
DAVE BANKS, Nihil
MARK BARRETT editor
JEFF MANN Managing editor
DAVID MCCURRY editor
DAVID M io cal
WARREN LACKEY SCOT MYERS
ANNE GOODWIN Assistant
WOMBLE SCOTT assistants
ELIZABETH BRAZELL, DAVID PRETTYMAN, KAREN SANDLIN, manager