6—The Davidsonian—May 8, 1981

Inside IMAC

The softball tournament began this week and will continue into the early part of next week. As I was looking
over the pairings for the tournament, I couldn’t help but feel that the IMAC Czar had not handled the final
task of his reign properly. He put the five best teams in the top bracket. This would be understandable only
if the pairings were handled by draw selection, which they were not. The top teams should have been divided up
as evenly as possible, with the top two teams in separate semifinal brackets in order to allow them to meet
in the finals. Double elimination goes into effect for the final four teams.

I still feel confident that Bone will win the championship, especially after their victory over the Perpetual Perpetrators (10-7), which
moved them into the final four. According to Perpetual Perpetrator member Danny Klinar, the game could well have been the
final round of the tournament, which of course never would have happened if the pairings had been assigned fairly.

The results so far are:
- Eddie Searcher over Phi Delt (9-8)
- Bone over Perpetual Perpetrators (10-7)
- Master Batters over Pissin in the Wind (13-2)
- Old Men over Off Again (19-9)

So, the final four are Eddie Searcher, Bone, Master Batters, and the Old Men. Remember, the tournament is now in
double elimination. Good luck to all the teams. I still think Bone is going to win. If you want to
see some good softball, check the schedule in the gym for the times and field numbers.

Since this is the final issue of the Davidsonian, I will not be able to cover the rest of the
tournament. But remember, next fall comes...flickerball!

George Murrell

Davidson's 1980 women’s field hockey team surpassed all expectations by going to the Nationals. Here is how Davidson athletic teams
fared overall during the 1980-81 school year:

- Football 5-5
- Field hockey 16-7-1 NCAIAW Division II State champs
- Soccer 9-8
- Cross country 7-5
- Basketball 13-14
- Women’s basketball 3-18
- Swimming 11-2
- Wrestling 8-8
- Tennis 22-6
- Women’s tennis 18-2 NCAIAW Division II State champs

The women’s tennis team will compete in the Regional tournament this Friday and Saturday.

- Baseball 3-1
- Track 3-1
- Women’s track 0-3
- Golf 3-1
- Rifle 18-7

Lack of scholarships hurts sports

By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson minor sport coaches say their teams could compete against the scholarship-supported squads of other schools if they were given
more support in recruiting from the college administration.

Davidson awards scholarships for men’s basketball only, while offering substantial financial assistance to football players with established need. Athletic Director
Gene Bingham said, “The way inflation’s going, the policy in athletics across the nation is retrenchment. Lots of schools are
giving up many sports, both men’s and women’s. Everybody’s in trouble.”

Davidson minor sport coaches say they know that Davidson cannot afford big-money scholarships. However, most say that scholarships may not
be the miracle answer to Davidson’s present athletic questions. Hockey and women’s basketball coach Dee Dee Mayes said, “Our problem
in basketball is that schools in the conference we’ve played in the past don’t have the strict admissions policy we
do, so we're going to need some help there, or change our schedule.” Mayes proposed that the admissions office reserve
two spots for each minor sport every year for qualified athlete-students who might not gain admission on strict academic credentials
alone.

Mayes also said that recruiting budgets for minor sports are inadequate. “It really won’t do us all that much good
if they give us scholarships but not the money to go visit players and see them play.”

Pat Miller, who coaches both the swim team and women’s tennis team, also pointed to the recruiting budget as a
source of concern for coaches. Miller said that recruiting budgets for minor sports, which in 1980-81 stood at less than
$92 per sport, must also cover the cost of all phone calls, mailings, and paperwork done by the coaches in
matters of scheduling and conference relations.

Although the admissions office has been cooperative in the past, Miller added, “We do need definite slots in admissions for
athletes who can meet certain requirements for admissions.” She said a change in admissions policy would have two effects. “First,
at least then we would know that if we find the kids we need we could get them in, and
two, it would be good for the coaches as far as motivation goes.”

Golf Coach Thom Cartmill said that all other golf teams in the Southern Conference offer scholarships. Cartmill said, “We can
compete with these teams without [offering Davidson] scholarships, if we get...the rest of the tools.” He said that Davidson badly
needs a good practice facility near the campus. Presently, the team travels over 30 minutes to practices. Also, Cartmill said
that golf teams Davidson competes against are often allowed up to 30 days of missed class time. “We just can’t
do that at Davidson, so we’re at a disadvantage there, but that situation is not going to change.” Baseball Coach
Charlie Slagle said, “It is difficult to compete day in and day out with scholarship teams.” But he added, “I’m
not really expected to win all my games, competing at this level. The Athletic Department just tells you to do
the best you possibly can. The pressure to win really is put on me by me.”

Cat golfers end season with 3-1 dual meet record
By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson golfers finished a fine 3-1 dual meet record season with the 54-hole Southern Conference 1981 golf championships held April
27, 28, and 29. The tournament was conducted over the 6560-yard, par 70 South Course at the Raintree Country Club
in Matthews, North Carolina. Senior Brett Storm took low-medalist honors for the Wildcats with rounds of 79, 75, and 78,
for a 232 finish. Storm tied at number 20 on the list of individual leaders with Greg Campbell of the
Citadel. Eric Lawhorn of East Tennessee State, who shot a second-day round of 67, led all individuals with a 214
score. Davidson finished seventh of nine teams with a score of 1206, while East Tennessee State won the tournament with
an 1101 finish. East Tennessee’s team title was the Buccaneers’ third straight, matching the record held by Davidson (1966, 1967,
1968), George Washington, and Furman. Three Davidson players finished at 241—senior L.D. Simmons (79-75-87), senior Mark Shogry (83-78-80), and junior
Mott McDonald (84-77-80). Sophomore Tom Haller knocked out a 254, while senior Rick Jenkins followed with a 255. Freshman Dave
Lincoln, sophomore Bob Whalen, and senior Ed Imbrogno have played in the number seven, eight, and nine spots, respectively, for
Davidson this year. Davidson competed in four dual meets this season, emerging with a 3-1 record, and participated in the
Dunlop, Elon, Pembroke State, Virginia Tech, and Southern Conference tournaments. L.D. Simmons staged the highlight of the year when he
stroked past the 162-player field of the Elon Tournament to take the individual low-medalist honors in that event. Cartmill said
he was pleased with the team’s improvement this year.

Davidson lacrosse team ends season at 5-3
By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The Davidson Lacrosse Club finished its second straight winning season as Player-Coach senior Alex Evans guided the team to a
5-3 record. The season opened with a road game at Clemson, where the host Tigers came out on top, 9-6.
The team then dropped to 0-2 as Guilford’s varsity team demolished the visiting Wildcats 19-4. The season turned around when
the team played Furman, their first game before the home folks. The visitors battled back from an early deficit to
regulation in a 9-9 deadlock. Alex Evans was the man of the sudden death overtime, as he dodged four defenders
to score and give the Cats their first win, 10-9. The stickers easily handled Charlotte Lacrosse Club, paced by the
three-goal effort of senior Tom Baker. The team then stretched its win streak to three games as senior crease attackman
Andy Engh scored the deciding goal in the waning minutes of the 8-7 game. Next, the team traveled to “Hotlanta”
to meet the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech on the astroturf of Grant Field. Sharp Georgia Tech passing proved too
much for the Wildcats defense, unused to the “fast” astroturf, as Bobby Kurin scored eight of the Yellow Jackets’ sixteen
goals. The bees stung the Wildcats 16-5. A key turnabout came as the team won its first road game on
the bumpy field of Elon. The Wildcats raced to a 9-1 halftime lead, and finished off the Fighting Christians, 12-5.
The season finale against Emory and Henry proved to be Davidson lacrosse at its best. The Wildcats, looking for a
blowout, surged to a 4-1 lead, but slacked off with the lead in their hands. Emory and Henry rallied to
take a 5-4 lead. The ’Cats pulled things together, though, and finished the visitors off 12-10. Although the team is
graduating the entire starting attack, prospects for next year are good. Goalies Jay Norman and Tony Smith, a duo which
proved a formidable platoon this season, will be back to patrol the nets. The defense and midfield will also return
strong units. Next year’s player-coach, junior Bob Bowden, expects a good, hard-hitting team to play the fastest game on foot
for Davidson next year.
