8—The Davidsonian—May 1, 1981

Nick's Flicks

As their penultimate offering this year, Fine Films is showing something of a curiosity to Davidson film audiences. Andrzej Wajda is Poland's foremost film director, with a reputation stretching back before the days of Roman Polanski. His masterpiece—so I am told by assiduous Polskfilm-watchers—is a trilogy of features describing the misfortunes of Poland in World War II and the rise of the Soviet-engineered regime's precarious hold on power. "Kanal" (Love Auditorium, Wednesday at 8 pm), made in 1957, is a part of this trilogy which follows the lives of a group of patriots as they literally go underground to continue their fight against the occupying forces of Nazi Germany. Apparently a powerful tribute to the forces of national resistance, it should make doubly interesting viewing in light of the current unrest in Poland, merely the latest chapter in an almost unbroken series of occupations or impositions by foreign regimes. "Kanal" has more than novelty value, then: it seems to be a vivid documentation of the national spirit of a country once described as having no function other than "to be invaded by Germany while the other nations of Europe prepare for war."

On a related subject, those of you who pick this up before 7 pm on Thursday night might take yourselves off to Perkins where Humes is showing Peter Watkins’ film "The War Game." Made in the '60s, this British feature provides a frighteningly accurate portrait of the effects and aftermath of a nuclear strike. So accurate, in fact, that the BBC has consistently refused to show it on TV in Britain. One can only speculate as to precisely why, but it may have something to do with a recent government admission that in the event of a nuclear strike the major function of the home security forces would be to "control" (i.e., kill) the civilian survivors. There is probably a good case for films such as this being made compulsory.

College films for the rest of the week provide some mercifully lighter fare. Pop Films are particularly active, showing "The Return of the Pink Panther" in Love on Saturday night and "Manhattan" on Friday, same place, 8 and 10:30 pm. I can’t for the life of me get as enthusiastic about these features as the earlier work of their respective directors, but they will be deservedly well-patronized.

At the Visulite this weekend, Francois Truffaut’s latest, "The Last Metro," is being shown. Apparently doing for the theatre what his earlier "La Nuit Americaine" did for the cinema, this promises to be excellent, and I’ll be reporting upon it next week. Anybody looking for a night at the movies on Thursday could do a lot worse than to try the Visulite’s double bill of Nick Roeg features (another fine British director). One of Nick’s pet flicks is "Don’t Look Now," a superbly Gothic mystery set in Venice and starring Julie Christie and Donald Sutherland. It’s highly recommended, although those of you lucky enough to have seen the British edit of this film will be disappointed by the relatively sparse amount of Christie’s flesh on view in this one. Quite seriously, cisatlantic prudishness has made an inconsistent mockery of an excellent film. I wish that the same excuse could be made for "Bad Timing," Roeg’s latest feature. This story of an expatriate affair between Art Garfunkel and Theresa Russell is alternately vacuous and tacky, and is only redeemed by the strength of Denholm Elliot’s acting and Roeg’s razor-sharp editing. This should not put you off "Don’t Look Now," however.

Probably best of all the available cinema this week is Joseph Strick’s adaptation of "Ulysses," showing on Monday at a time and place apparently yet to be decided. Further information will probably be forthcoming from Gill Holland for whose class it is being shown. Those of you who consider a film adaptation of Joyce’s masterpiece a disastrous impossibility really should see this excellent version of the novel. Strick took the enormous risk of updating the action to contemporary Dublin, and, thanks largely to some excellent monochrome photography and a masterful performance by Milo O’Shea as Bloom, the whole thing works remarkably well. Obviously, it would be impossible to encompass the whole spread of such a novel in a two-hour film, but thanks to a rigorously sensitive adaptation, the sequences highlighted are wonderfully accurate, particularly the Circe episode which becomes the occasion for some wryly surrealistic humor which outdoes the best of Fellini. The whole effect is of a film almost better than one could have hoped for, given the nature of the original text, and it should be missed neither by cinephiles nor students of literature. Should you ever feel the action begin to drag, you can always amuse yourself by making up anagrams of “Ineluctable modality of the visible.” Good luck to you.

Students experience solar inertia

By ANNE GOODWIN
Asst. Features Editor

The sun beats down relentlessly. All around me I see bodies stretched out in the grass. Here and there one makes a feeble attempt at motion. An overwhelming odor rises to meet me. This dread scene is not from a Grade B war movie, but has become an ubiquitous part of our lives here at Davidson. The Cult of the Tan has invaded our idyllic campus. Every day one may see its followers lying out inFront of Richardson, Belk, and other open grassy spots on campus. The invasion began as early as December 7, when I saw a girl sunning herself in a bikini. Since then, the cult has steadily been gaining adherents. In light of this growth, the phenomenon merited examination. I sought out representatives of the cult to explain it to me. I found freshmen Lisa Klahn, Jenny O’Briant, and Scott Otto, and a senior who preferred to be known as Dan Tanner. All four mentioned the “look” of a tan as their reason for being a part of the cult. Otto added that sitting out in the sun “makes me feel healthy,” while Tanner sees a tan as “a necessary status symbol.” O’Briant said “laying out [sic] is a great aphrodisiac.”

Methods of tanning varied among the cult’s representatives. O’Briant said she always starts out with “a good burn.” She uses sunscreen only on her nose and favors Hawaiian Tropic tanning lotion. Klahn uses baby oil, while Tanner said, “Me, I go for au naturel. I don’t put anything on—suntan lotion, that is.” Time spent in the sun varied from two hours twice a week to three to four hours daily. The different tanners occupy themselves in various ways as they lie in the sun. O’Briant and Otto study, though Otto said math and intensive reading are not suitable. Tanner likes “to listen to Renaissance music while I tan.”

Following the rites of the tanning cult is no bed of roses, however. Klahn cited construction workers and friends who dump ice on her as occupational hazards, while Tanner mentioned the campus dogs. O’Briant and Otto both said they follow the inspirational lead of Zonker Harris of the Doonesbury comic strip. (Editor’s note: Zonker Harris recently won the Gerald Ford Pro-Am tanning contest and was featured in a Time article about the new hedonism in American colleges.) “Every serious tanner knows who Zonker Harris is,” O’Briant said, “I love Zonker; I follow him.” If you would like more information about this rapidly growing cult, contact one of its members. They are conspicuously available any sunny afternoon.

Bayh attacks New Right perspective

By TOM PAFFORD
Staff Writer

The recent prominence of the “New Right” in American politics formed the focus of former Indiana Senator Birch Bayh’s speech in Love Auditorium Monday night. The “New Right” exists on “perceived power,” Bayh said, and, while “perceived power can sometimes be as great as real power,” it will eventually collapse when its cover is blown.

Bayh is best known as the author of the Equal Rights Amendment and as a staunch supporter of liberal causes. Bayh began by saying he would treat three issues of particular relevance to his career as a liberal Democratic Senator: ERA, abortion, and the New Right. His speech concentrated mostly on the New Right. Bayh denied harboring personal grudges against the New Right, although he was defeated last November by Republican Don Quayle, who had the New Right’s support. He said that he did not feel the New Right was the source of his defeat.

Characterizing the New Right as a propaganda scam, Bayh contrasted it with the “refreshingly honest” Old Right, which drew from a wider base of the population in its call for injecting Christian morality into politics. Unlike the Old Right, the New Right is not a goulash of conservative groups, but a cabal of experienced fundraisers and ideologues, Bayh said. It is a more pragmatic organization which tends to oversimplify issues and flatly categorizes people as moral or immoral, patriotic or unpatriotic. It also gathers support by “increasing fears” of potential national threats through direct-mailing campaigns.

Bayh censured the Christian posturings of the conservative coalition, quoting a minister who had called the New Right “a philosophical movement to return a right-wing God to government.” Denouncing North Carolina Senator Jesse Helms’ recent attempt to draft a constitutional amendment prohibiting abortions, Bayh argued that the government has no right to intrude in the private decisions of citizens in areas like abortion. The real issue, he added, is whether the government should fund abortions.

A question was put to Bayh concerning the fairness of his denunciation of the New Right’s use of religious authority for political ends. During the 1960s, the questioners pointed out, Bayh was a strong supporter of Martin Luther King, Jesse Jackson, and others who were both ministers and civil rights leaders. In his answer, Bayh contrasted the wide popular base of the civil rights movement with the narrower base of the New Right. He explained that Martin Luther King and other activists sought inclusion in society for the dispossessed without denouncing those who refused to conform to their particular way of thought. The New Right attempts instead to decrease the size of what it considers to be a viable community, and hopes to enforce a narrow conformity, Bayh added.

Work with a great group this summer!
WDAV announcing staff openings
Broadcasting experience preferred but not required
To apply, contact John Clark 892-2000 ext. 131

Summer jobs
Local and overseas
Write for information to:
A.P. Company
1516 E. Tropicana E
Dept. 7a-110
Las Vegas, NV 89109
Include a self-addressed stamped envelope