Box 248
Davidson, NC 28036-0248

Evaluating Professors

To the Editor:

The Code of Faculty Evaluation Procedures, as drawn up by the Faculty Committee on Professional Affairs and the administration and
adopted by the faculty in 1979, calls for student participation in the evaluation procedures. The relevant paragraph is contained in
Section III, Paragraph 2, Students:

Students are in an especially favorable position to assess the instructor's enthusiasm for the subject, concern for them, and clarity
in presentation. They can testify to the instructor’s availability, fairness, and care in evaluating their work. The satisfaction of students
with the instruction they are receiving is an important ingredient in the morale of an institution. It is therefore appropriate
that their views be ascertained by means of interviews, letters, evaluation forms, or other methods.

In an effort to provide the most comprehensive information concerning teaching, the faculty and administration have jointly adopted the ICES
evaluation of teaching system. The data obtained from the evaluation of all members of the faculty each term by students
in all regularly scheduled classes provide a very important element in the total evaluation picture and furnish a background for
interviews, letters, and other comments. It is extremely important that students approach the task of filling out the evaluation forms
responsibly and conscientiously. They are being asked, in filling out the forms, to participate in an evaluation process concerning the
effectiveness of teaching.

Additional questions have been chosen by the instructor, or sometimes the department as a whole, in order to address specific
areas of concern. The professor will appoint a student to gather up the forms and deliver them directly to the
Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs. The instructor does not review the completed forms until they have been
tabulated—about three weeks after the conclusion of the term. The process is thus completely confidential.

For those instructors who feel that students should be on record for their responses in so important a matter, a
signature sheet is provided. In this case, the student response sheet is numbered, with each number corresponding to a blank
on a signature sheet. The signature sheet is returned directly to the Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
where it is kept on file. It is not seen by the instructor, and the anonymity of student responses is
preserved.

Hansford M. Epes
Chairman, Professional Affairs Committee

T.C. Price Zimmermann
Vice President for Academic Affairs

In response to “BSC on the wrong track”

To the Editor:

When I read the letter to the editor “BSC on the wrong track,” my first inclination was to totally ignore
it. After careful reflection, I decided that it needed a response. I am terribly disappointed with the incompetence and irresponsibility
of my fellow Davidsonians. When one writes an opinion, a protest, or anything for that matter, one should, first, have
the competence to convey a clear and understandable message. Some parts of the letter question the significance of the very
existence of the BSC, while the title and other parts suggest that its “motives” are questionable. What is the argument?
Secondly, one should have the courage to state adamantly his opinion. (Especially when sensitive accusations of discrimination and segregation are
involved.) When one protests against something, apologies do not constitute the majority of the protest. These half apologies scattered throughout
the letter suggest that the writers know nothing.about which they write, which leads me to these responses. The third and
most open statement can be summed up in their final statement on the matter: “We merely feel that if a
group chooses to distinguish itself, it should be on the basis of something better than that which he protests.” The
writers of “BSC on the Wrong Track” have taken an issue that has taken (and will take) years to resolve.
What issue is that? We are the Black Student Coalition. How have we, and how does one propose to resolve
blackness? If one chooses to believe that all people have somehow evolved to be colorless, he is terribly disillusioned. Why
would one want to believe this? When someone tells me “I see you as a person, I don’t see color,”
he has immediately insulted me, not to mention the fact that he is lying. He has taken away my color
and assumed that I don’t wish to acknowledge it. The failure of the writers of “BSC on the Wrong Track”
to present any other reasons for accusing the BSC of discrimination and segregation suggests that the only reason for their
accusations is our common acknowledgment of being black. That is ludicrous, absurd, and unjust. We are organized with a common
interest and a common cause. Obviously, the writers of the letter do not know and have never tried to inform
themselves of the BSC’s function on campus. They have just conveniently assumed that it is a form of segregation. Thus,
they have generalized the Davidson College Black Student Coalition, thereby committing one of the cruelest forms of discrimination: stereotyping. This
discrepancy could and should have been resolved simply by questioning the BSC leadership, the Davidson College administration, or any of
the BSC members. One should never assume anything blindly, for it is a gross embarrassment to the accuser and a
terrible injustice to the accused to publicly protest ignorantly.

Anne R. Elliott ’84, Vice President, Black Student Coalition

BSC reply

To the Editor:

In response to the “BSC on the Wrong Track?” by J.P. Murdock, J. Moore, and J.C. Carson IV in last
week’s paper, let me stress that in refutation, I do not apologize for stepping on anyone’s toes. What do you
mean when you state that the BSC self-segregates and “discriminates?” And especially, how can James Moore, a black student, even
think such a thing? No BSC member has ever said that our social functions were for blacks only, but I've
been here since September and have not seen either of the three gentlemen who wrote the letter in attendance. The
BSC does not close its doors to anyone, but neither do we intend to break down doors to get others
at our social events. And who gives anyone the right to say that being black is “inconsequential” to this campus?
For that matter, what gives consequence to any other campus social group? You and a lot of other people here
are hung up on assimilation; the BSC is not. Yes, we strive to be a part of the Davidson community,
but not at the expense of our own culture. Black culture is a vastly rich and beautiful one, and none
of us intend to deny it. Why has society always got to be a melting pot? Is it necessarily wrong
to desire one’s own identity? The BSC believes in co-existence in an air of equality, but we do not intend
to lose our identity in the process.

Janet Stovall
