Senior Dick Jones garners 15 of Davidson's 17 points

Appalachian State runners capture title at 22nd annual Davidson Relays

By CHRIS TIERNAN
Staff Writer

Last Saturday, Davidson hosted 24 men’s track teams in the 22nd annual Davidson Relays. Appalachian State won the meet with
126 and one-third points, followed by Virginia Tech with 98 and a half and Furman with 81. Davidson managed to
score 17 and a half points despite the high level of competition in this year’s meet. Senior captain Dick Jones
scored an overwhelming 15 of the team’s total points.

In a full day of competition, Jones entered six events. He tied for first place in the 400 meter intermediate
hurdles with Ken Springs of ASU. Both were hand-timed at 53.6 seconds. Jones’ time set a new Davidson Relay record,
breaking the record he set last year. Jones also placed third in the 100 meter high hurdles. Other Davidson points
came from freshman Clark Carter, who placed fifth in the pole vault with a jump of 13 feet. The jump
was a personal best for Carter, who has improved his record by 12 inches since the beginning of the season.

The Davidson relay teams did not fare as well as they had hoped. In the distance medley relay, Dave Stosur
continued to run despite being cut off by another runner and stumbling onto the asphalt track during the first curve
of the race. Despite Stosur’s attempt after his spill, the lost time hampered the team's overall performance in that event.

Davidson’s newly acquired Acutrac timing device malfunctioned during one of the heats of the 400 meter intermediate hurdles, and all
times for that event had to be timed by hand. Had the Acutrac been working, a clear winner may have
been determined. Physical Education Director Sterling Martin, who organized the relays, was pleased with the purchase of the Acutrac, which
Davidson had previously rented for the Relays and other events at a cost of up to $600. The new equipment
will enable Davidson to time races more accurately in large meets such as the Davidson Relays and the Southern Conference
meet. Davidson is now one of three colleges in North Carolina with an Acutrac and will be able to partially
subsidize its cost by renting it to other schools.

The team faces the Citadel in Charleston this Saturday but is also starting to work toward the Southern Conference meet.
The top three finishers in each event are named to the All-Southern Conference team and Davidson has a handful of
hopefuls. Some of the top running prospects are Dick Jones in the hurdles, John Davis in the steeplechase and 5000
meter, Bart Landess in the 500 meter, and Randy McManus in the 1500 meter. In the field events, top prospects
include Dave Nichols in the hammer, Stan Klingar and Paul Mainella in the javelin, and Clark Carter in the pole
vault. Two weeks of hard work lie between now and the Southern Conference meet, which will be held at Davidson
on April 24 and 25.

Cats drop doubleheader to East Tennessee State

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

The baseball team had an uphill climb this week. The series of games started with a pushover against Methodist and
culminated in a drubbing delivered by N.C. State. Last Thursday, the Cats blew a weak Methodist team off the field,
in a game that set them up with Pfeiffer. Although Pfeiffer had played a strong 8 innings and led 7-5
going into the ninth, the visitors’ pitching gave out, enabling Davidson to score three runs in the bottom of the
ninth to win, 8-7. Saturday, the hill became steeper as the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga came to town for
a doubleheader. The Wildcats heldTheir own in both games, but the effort wasn’t enough as the Moccasins swept the doubleheader,
6-2 and 5-3. As if those losses weren’t enough, the team received a visit from 17th ranked East Tennessee Monday.
As the first game waned into the bottom of the ninth, the Cats put men on second and third with
one out. The Bucs cut the rally short, though, as they retired the next two batters. In the second game,
Davidson led 5-4 going into the seventh, but a controversial call let the Bucs take the lead, and they coasted
on to win, 8-4. Matters got progressively worse when ACC leaders N.C. State visited. The Wolfpack showed every bit of
its power as it clobbered the Cats 16-5. A few players performed well across the week, but Coach Slagle was
not happy with the 2-5 performance. “It was a disappointment to me that we got ahead in a couple of
games and couldn’t hold the lead,” Slagle said. He did, however, note that John Haskell hit two home runs over
the weekend and Allen Griffin pulled his batting average into the high .300’s. The schedule isn’t easing up on Davidson,
either, as perennial Southern Conference power the Citadel arrives Saturday for a doubleheader. John Haskell kicks up a cloud of
dust as he slides home.

By KATIE DAGENHART
Staff Writer

Four victories last week sent the women’s tennis team record to an amazing 12-1. The lady netters smashed Winthrop 9-0
on Thursday and Atlantic Christian College 8-1 on Friday. Saturday the team had a tough match against East Carolina University,
but the ’Cats came out on top with a score of 6-3. Davidson’s number one doubles team, junior Emmy Knoblach
and senior Hope McArn, suffered its first loss of the season at the hands of UNC-Charlotte on Monday. However, the
team as a whole defeated UNCC 7-2. Knoblach remains undefeated in the number one singles position. The third doubles team,
junior Adelaide Wilcox and Smith, filled in as the second doubles team in the matches against ACC and ECU, and
are still undefeated. Looking ahead, Coach Pat Miller said, “We still have the hardest teams to look at, but they
should prepare us for the state tournament.” This week the schedule is especially rough. Tuesday the ’Cats faced Guilford away,
and today they met Presbyterian College at home at 2 p.m. Next week the lady netters have away matches against
Pfeiffer College on Monday and Appalachian State on Tuesday. The Division II State Championship of the North Carolina Association of
Intercollegiate Athletics for Women is scheduled for April 23.

US 441 South
Sylva, NC
704/586-4329

Spring Get Away - A quiet vacation in the Smokies with no interruptions except those you want! Spend an intimate
time by the fireside in your own cottage.

Mountain Brook Cottages

The Lake Norman professionals for every lifestyle!

Denise McGrad
Gary W. Bailey
Barber stylist
892-1933
Owner

If for some reason you missed taking Army ROTC in your first two years of college, you can still take
it in your last two. But only if you apply while you’re still a sophomore. In order to make up
for the years you missed, you’ll have to attend a special camp in the summer before your junior year. You'll
earn up to a total of $2,900 in the Two-Year Program. You'll get some good management experience. And you'll get
a commission as an Army officer along with a college degree.

Army ROTC
Belk dorm, Davidson College

Please send me more information about the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.

Ms. Mr.
Address
City
State
Zip
College Attending
Graduation Date

The Army ROTC Two-Year Program
