The Devoidsonian—3

[continued from page 1]

He described Stealth as an ‘emanation process’ which would ‘spread in concentric circles’ from his office to all administrative ranks.

‘I’ve been secretly employing some Stealth principles in my own work for several years now,’ Spencer said, ‘and this year we applied it to the offices of Chaplain and of Vice-President for Development.’

Just who does the Stealth plan protect the College from?

“THEM...” Spencer whispered in his dimly lit office, where he had summoned this Devoidsonian reporter.

“You know... the lawyers, the students, the press, the faculty, the Republicans, the Moral Majority, they’re out to get us.”

Reaction to Spencer’s plan was enthusiastic.

“It’s awesome!” said Dean of Students Will Terry, who was wearing his Stealth hairdo for the occasion. “I mean, look what it’s done for God in 2,000 years!” Terry said he had endorsed Spencer’s Stealth plan for the chaplainship as soon as he was sure it was not an Honor Code violation. “I guess you can’t plagiarize God,” he noted.

Athletic Director Gene Bingham, who was busily collecting money in Florida for the new Stealth Athletic Complex when Spencer’s announcement came out, said in a phone interview, “Lordy Jemima, it’s a super-dooper plan. There are lots of corporations down here with Stealth policies. Land developers and such. It warms the cockles of my heart to see my old alma mater take up some sound, proven corporate policies.”

Bingham said he had found Stealth tactics useful during his year here, especially in times of hirings and firings and stuff.

Vice President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann was surprised at Spencer’s plan. “I knew nothing about it,” he commented, “and was just planning to announce next week a new Educational Policy Committee proposal to institute a sweeping curricular reform which would leave the present curriculum’s spirit, structure, and requirements intact.

[continued on page 3]

A sign of changing sex roles at Davidson? Ann Keith helps a baseball player put on his lipstick.

Stealth

[continued from page 3]

reform which would leave the present curriculum’s spirit, structure, and requirements intact.

[continued on page 3]

Where they were and what they were

Richard Cole - Lead Singer for Sex Pistols
James Swisher - Cole’s Lyricist
David Waddill - Teething
Chief Jackie “Deputy Dawg” Hughes - Beating up hippies in Chicago
Peter Venturelli - Beat up in Chicago
Gene Bingham - Gladiator
Ed Farrell - Undertaker
John Griffith - Leading an encounter group commune in Ohio
“Red” Ernie Patterson - Still hiding from McCarthy
R. Bruce Jackson - Male model for Gentleman's Quarterly
Locke White - Failed Bob Manning
Bob Manning - Failed L. White’s astronomy class
Lois Kemp - Bullfighter
Max Polley - Lumberjack
Robert Myers - Entered an altered state
Ralph Gable - Invented ice cream while conducting acid-base reaction experiment in Chem. 21.
Glen Lindsay - Bookkeeper for Richard Nixon’s campaign
Tom Bessellieu - Roadie for the Sex Pistols
Earl MacCormac - Experiencing “I-Thou” with an Apple computer
Eddie Biedenbach - Shot by his own troops in Vietnam

Stealth

[continued from page 3]

Spencer was pleased with Zimmermann’s proposal. “It fits in nicely with the Stealth philosophy.” Asked why he did not inform Zimmermann of his plan sooner, Spencer replied, “I always like to surprise people; it relieves the monotonous humdrum of academic life. Besides, it’s fun to watch.”

[continued on page 6]

In next week's issue...

New from D.C. Press:

Avoided for over Six years!!!
Hinted at for months!!!
Forgotten in days!!!

Blind

By Bob Maypoll

The story of one man who was nauseated by injustice!

“Marvelous! Marvelous! Marvelous!” — Bob Maypoll
“Fiscally impractical!” — Jeannie Cornmeal
“Morally repugnant!” — Rob Campany
“Maypoll’s a jerk. The girls will take over.” — Dr. Corrinne Neldaughter
“But what will it do to Sparta?!” — Gene Bingspam
“We have no opinion. Besides, it’s dinner time!” — 21 faculty members
“I like it... I really do!” — Frank Santore
“Blind Admissions? Haven’t read it.” — Sam

Should be in stock by 1990!! Only $33.33