THE DAVIDSONIAN
In Veritate Magna Vis
Volume LXX, Number 13
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28036
January 23, 1981

ARA to propose food service changes
By JOHN RICHARDS
Staff Correspondent

ARA Slater will submit proposals to the College on February 3 concerning their food service in the new Commons. ARA Regional Manager John Packer will present plans for an improved Slater food service along with projected student dining costs for the coming year. The College has apparently decided that ARA will continue to manage Davidson's food service.

Class of ‘85 smaller than ‘84
By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

Next year’s freshman class will probably be smaller than this year’s, according to Associate Admissions Director Gardner Roller. Roller said the Admissions Office is planning to reduce the class size to 350. This is 30 students less than are in this year’s class. The reduction is necessary, Roller said, because Davidson’s attrition rate was lower this year. Admitting the same number of freshmen would make the demand for classes and for dormitory space next year too high.

The male/female ratio set by the Board of Trustees is still two to one, Roller said. However, Admissions will not make a final decision on applicants until after the Trustees meet in February. The Trustees review admissions data annually, Roller explained, and since the number of women applicants has risen, may reconsider the present ratio.

The expected decrease in freshman class size has led to a cut in the number of hall counselors, Dean of Students Will Terry said. Next year there will be 8 female and 20 male counselors, compared to 10 (Continued on page 11)

The proposals will offer the College a choice between two dining plans, according to Packer. The first is the plan currently in use. The second is the “unlimited” plan, which provides entrees on an “all you can eat” policy. A final decision about the food service will be made during the Trustees’ ratification of the 1981-82 budget during their March meeting, according to Business Manager Bob Currie.

The College recently invited a special consultant from Duke University to review the present food service and to make recommendations for the operation of the Commons. Possible options included a College-run food service. Currie refused to make details of this report available, however. “We don’t think they’re quite ready to print just yet,” Currie said.

ARA’s proposal calls for two service lines, one for hot food and the other for sandwiches, according to Packer. (Continued on page 11)

Interior work has begun on the Commons. (David McCurry)

Laser, microscopes stolen from Dana laboratory

This solar greenhouse will soon provide heat for the depot.

FOCUS
By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor

“Flexibility was the byword for curricular change in the 1960’s. Today, the word is structure.” Economics Professor Charles Ratliff sums up here the trend reflected in the Educational Policy Committee (EPC) proposals for curriculum change. This trend indicates a growing feeling in American colleges and universities that students should possess, at least to some degree, a common educational background. Nationally, this represents a major shift away from previous concern for student freedom in curricular matters.

The trend has been less pronounced at Davidson, however. “Davidson never went as far as many other liberal arts schools in the 1960's in eliminating requirements,” said Registrar Richard Burts. “We permitted flexibility while instituting area requirements to insure a sense of direction.”

“It’s interesting to see schools like Duke and Harvard instituting curriculums now that are not too different from what we’ve had for twelve years.” There have been no major changes in the present “Blue Sky”Curriculum since it was implemented in the fall of 1968. Prior to 1968, the Davidson curriculum consisted of a large number of mandatory courses, with few electives. All freshmen were required to take prescribed courses in Bible, English, mathematics, history, and a foreign language. “In those days the registrar could almost hand out freshmen schedules with no consultation with the student,” Burts said. “All we needed to know was what language he wanted to take.” The curriculum also required that all Davidson men take two years of ROTC. ROTC only became optional during the junior year.

By SALLY CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

Three dissecting microscopes, three illuminators, and a laser disappeared from Dana Science Building during the first two weeks of January, according to Physics Department Chairman Locke White. Campus Security notified area police departments as soon as the thefts were discovered, according to Security Chief Jackie Hughes. The Police Information Network has descriptions of the equipment that will help officers in searching for it, he said.

On Friday, Jan. 2, White set up a laser demonstration in the large lecture room on the first floor of Dana. Monday morning the laser was gone, although four projectors in the room were undisturbed. On Wednesday, Jan. 14, Biology Professor David Grant set up a microscope and illuminator (a special light for use with microscopes) in a laboratory on the third floor. He left the building at 10:30 a.m. and returned at 1:30 p.m. and found the equipment missing. Thinking someone had borrowed it, Grant went into another laboratory and discovered the theft of two more microscopes and illuminators.

The laser has a list price of over $450, and the microscopes and illuminators list at about $2500 altogether. White said he will wait to see if anyone returns the laser before purchasing a new one. Replacement of the biology equipment depends on College insurance, Grant said.

(David McCurry)

College curriculum may be reversing a twenty-year trend. Significant changes in the student applicant pool during the 1960s, though, made curricular change increasingly necessary. “While Davidson has always attracted top drawer students, it also accepted, before the mid-1950s, a sizable number of students who were less gifted and less prepared,” Burts said. “Davidson began receiving applications from a far greater number of better-prepared, often more gifted students in the early fifties. For the first time, we began enrolling students who had studied calculus in high school, for example. It was quite a change.”

“Perhaps this was a result of a more serious attitude toward education nationally, but the result was that we could be more selective.” It soon became clear, though, that the rigid curricular requirements of the time impeded the educational process as much if not more than they assisted it.

(Continued on page 11)

“I think we saw around the late 1950s and early ‘60s that our students were more prepared than the curriculum that received them,” Burts said. A college self-study conducted in 1965 finally produced the spark for major curricular revision. “A visiting Dartmouth professor who was asked to comment on the report noted that while Davidson’s curriculum was sound, there wasn’t any ‘blue sky’ in it,” English Professor Frank Bliss said. “We realized that we needed more vision.”

At the urging of the Dean of the Faculty Frontis Johnson, the Faculty formed what became known as the “Blue Sky Committee” to investigate major changes in both instructional methods and course offerings. The committee included two students, a rarity at the time. The institution of the Blue Sky Curriculum in 1968 was “the greatest change.

(Continued on page 11)