What’s in his hand?

Bobby Hussey has 15 players, and 15 wild cards.

He’s the 1981-82 Deion College basketball team. Let’s take a look at the roll and meet some to cheat. Which
one of you is Wilson? Oh, there are two of you. Ogi needs to score. You, Kay. Picky-picky. Carroll, prepare
to make a peewee word. Get it? Let me see all the players left. These are the ones who emerged.
They pass his cards well and keep a:

4 RR
es E
* a) +99
b tens a
z

For example, which should become more the rule than the exception because he’s playing with more confidence. Coach Hussey describes
him as “heady” and “a hard worker.”

Hold it, I thought that guy said you’re Gary McDonald?

Something of a holocaust in the basketball scene in which two coaches and three players have got something. Confidence.

Tom Franz
As a freshman last year, Tom had one major question on his mind: “What's my role on the team?” Now
he knows, and he’s been a “pleasant surprise” to Coach Hussey. Tom will play on the wing. He’s playing like
the Tom Franz of his high school stats (21 ppg). He’s got a lot more confidence, is scoring more, and
showed flashes of brilliance.

Jamie Hall
When it comes to basketball, Jamie Hall is fired up. One particular noun used often in reference to him is
“potential.” Well, Jamie’s got no potential. He’s there. “Jamie worked hard during the summer. He worked out with weights and
he’s been running,” Coach Hussey said. In fact, when it comes to running, Jamie had never before run three miles
without stopping. In preseason training, he ran as many as six. “Mentally, he’s ahead. But he needs to be a
35-minute man,” continued Coach Hussey.

Brian Rowan
Brian falls under the “pleasant surprise” category. He’ll play hard and should play a key role on the team this
season. He was red-shirted last year, so he’ll be a senior with a year of eligibility. “Brian plays hard. He
wants to play. He’s a complete, versatile, and intelligent player,” said Coach Hussey. Brian could be as unpleasant a surprise
for opponents as he was a pleasant surprise for Coach Hussey.

Cliff Wilson
Coach Hussey describes Cliff as “the most improved player on the team.” Cliff is taking it to the hoop more.
For us to be good, Cliff is going to have to be a complete player. “This year Cliff is going
to have to flex his muscles and be more of an inside player, and he’s having a little trouble coping
with the new position. His outside shot is just as accurate as ever, so he’ll manage to score points,” said
Coach Hussey.

Kenny Wilson
Kenny, a sophomore, may have the best raw talent of the returnees, and last year he was unable to show
it because of his unsure status on the team. However, “He’s playing with a lot of confidence. He gives a
real boost,” commented Coach Hussey.

Rich Wilson
Coach Hussey calls junior Rich Wilson “overlooked.” “He is versatile and can do a lot of things. He’s ambidextrous and
can play a big guard or on the wing. He works well on the break, which was when he was
at his best last year, so he should be much improved this year,” said Coach Hussey.
