March 13, 1981—The Davidsonian—3

The ‘Silver Fox’ served Davidson with love for 29 years

By RICK JENKINS
Special to The Davidsonian

Donald Plott, twenty-nine year head of the music department, died February 26 in Charlotte Memorial Hospital after a long illness. He was 58.

Known especially for his achievements with the Male Chorus, Plott led an active College and community life since joining the faculty in 1951. A year later, he was appointed director of the music department and since 1960 he directed the nationally known Oratorio Singers of Charlotte. In 1976, he was named to the specially endowed Dana Professorship at Davidson.

Plott resigned his College post in January for health reasons, a month after resigning his post with the Charlotte Oratorio. At a recent January concert, the Oratorio Singers named him conductor emeritus.

From 1952 until his death, Plott also served as director of music at Steele Creek Presbyterian Church, south of Charlotte.

Choral music was indeed Donald Plott’s metier. For twenty-nine years, he led the Male Chorus at Davidson and on their annual spring tours.

“He had a great love for that organization and the people in it, and we had a great love for him, too, not just as a musician but as a friend,” Male Chorus President Glenn Kellum said.

Religion professor Alexander McKelway, one of Plott’s closest friends, said that “one of his great contributions was the enhancement of the College’s reputation as a performer.” Plott also headed the Chamber Choir, a recently formed group consisting of men and women.

A reunion last Spring of Male Chorus alumni attests to the great devotion and friendship Plott inspired in his students. Over sixty former singers returned, not just to assemble in a reunion concert but to see their old friend Donald Plott. Most recognized Plott as a friend before a professor. His choral students returned quite often to visit him. “Male Chorus alumni form one of the strongest alumni groups due to him,” McKelway said.

An unrelenting optimism, a sense of good humor, an adroitness with people all characterized Donald Plott. Chorus members back in the mid-fifties were inevitably planting Plott’s Volkswagen, the first Beetle bought in Charlotte, on someone’s lawn in town. “I’m a great fan of college humor,” he once said. Miriam Booth, fourteen-year member of the Oratorio Singers, said, “I feel that the essence of the man is his gentleness, warmth, diplomacy, and his great wit. He’s a very calm, serene man—I’ve never seen him angry.”

“Sometimes he was bothered that he couldn’t express anger,” McKelway said.

Two years ago, while on tour with the Male Chorus in Texas, Plott started displaying signs of the brain tumor which eventually took his life. Doctors at Charlotte Memorial Hospital removed a malignant tumor from his left temple, and after a series of cobalt treatments, a brain scan several months later indicated no trace of cancer. But it reappeared, and this time was inoperable.

Plott in many ways led a hard life. Shortly after graduating from the University of Michigan’s School of Music, he was stricken with polio and paralyzed from the waist down. He was forced to give up his first job, a teaching post at an Owosso, Michigan school. The paralyzation disappeared, however, and he spent a year in convalescence in his wife’s hometown in South Carolina, digging ditches to improve his strength. Immediately following his recovery, he joined the faculty at Davidson.

In 1973, tragedy struck again when his wife, Mary Riley Whitaker, died after a six-year battle with breast cancer.

Donald Plott represented the height of his profession, someone who had a tremendous effect on those who were fortunate enough to come into contact with him. For thirty years he made many Davidson students’ experience here significantly more enjoyable and productive.

Donald Plott is survived by two sons, Tom and Bryce, both of Davidson; a daughter Martha, of Knoxville, Tenn.; his mother, Mary, also of Davidson; and a brother, Dr. Carol Plott.

Donald R. Plott 1923—1981

‘Oh Thou who hast revealed Thyself in the music of the spheres and come among us with the singing of angels, we thank Thee that Don's vocation was music, and the voice his instrument.

We are grateful for the contribution of his life and art to generations of Davidson students, to the choir and congregation of the Steele Creek Church, and to all his singers and audiences in Charlotte and beyond.

We thank thee that by his hands, face, and whole being he enabled great composers to sing their songs, and that out of the special genius and harmony of his own life he blended the discordant notes of our existence into an ensemble of grace and beauty.’