Davidson, NC 28036-0248
Box 248

Thanks for buying

To the Editor:

For all you very special people who received red carnations last weekend: Please be sure and thank graciously the friends that sent you your carnations. Their generosity sent $89.00 to Muscular Dystrophy. Thanks to all.

Questions from alumna

To the Editor:

Greetings from CA! I graduated last year and am getting a master’s degree in women’s studies from San José State University. I’ve been meaning to write this letter for some time, so I will sit down and write it before I go for that bowl of Raisin Bran.

I often think about my experience at Davidson and especially how it relates to my present course of study. I realize now how most of us spend four years of our lives at Davidson and never open our mouths wide enough to ask any questions that could be considered controversial. One of my favorite bumper stickers out here reads: Question Authority. I challenge all of you (students, faculty, and staff) to: QUESTION AUTHORITY, ESPECIALLY IF IT’S PATRIARCHAL.

The following are questions that I challenge you to ask:
Why aren’t there more women on the Board of Trustees?
Why are there only two (my latest count) women in high administrative offices?
Why are students scared of being labeled feminists?
Why does the history department continue to use a textbook which doesn’t even mention the names of Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton?
Why has there never been a woman president of the SGA?
Why is the leadership of DCF predominantly male?
Why aren’t there more women pre-meds?
Do students know what the Human Life Amendment is?
Is the Dean of Students’ office and the President’s office truly committed to equality of the sexes and how do they demonstrate that belief?
What are the special needs of minority women on campus?
Are the college’s secretaries getting paid what they’re worth (known as comparable worth)?
Do students take advantage of the Women’s Center and feel comfortable there?
Why aren’t more women encouraged to apply for graduate fellowships?
Why do some women Phi Beta Kappas end up being administrative assistants?
As women, why do you contribute to the Southern belle stereotype by being passive and sweet?
Should I even bring up women's athletics?
Especially for the men: Why do you feel unreasonable pressure to have a successful career?
Why is the leadership and membership of the Y Student Service Corps predominantly female?
Why do you dominate class discussions and frequently interrupt women?
Why are you afraid of forming close relationships with women, of being vulnerable, of crying?
Why do you use humor (something I often encountered) when confronted with the serious issues of feminism?
As women and men at Davidson, how are you oppressed and how do you oppress others?

If you’re ever near the “feminist capital of the world” (so-called because of the high number of women in high offices including the presidency of San José State and the mayor’s office) please look me up.

Now for that Raisin Bran.

Karen Hester '81

Corporate Relations Committee

To the Editor:

After reading your editorial of last week (“The Great Job Hunt”), I initially resolved to ignore the uninformed attack upon the Corporate Relations Committee, feeling that Davidson students would recognize it for what it was: shoddy journalism. Upon further reflection, I determined that the members of my committee deserved a defense. Had you looked into the matter in any depth, you wouldHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I have found that there exists a consensus from all sides — my committee, the Trustees, and the administration — that not only is Ken Wood’s work in Life-Work Planning and Experiential Programming valuable, but that Mr. Wood is probably the most capable man in North Carolina in that field. The senate had merely expressed concern that a strong job placement program was needed in addition to a career development program. Once again, I believe all sides reached a consensus that additional personnel was needed in the Careers Office, not to replace Mr. Wood, but to complement him. It should be noted that this proposal was welcomed by Mr. Wood. To suggest that such concern is opposed to “the very principle of liberal education” is, of course, absurd.

Stuart B. Dorsett ’82
Chairman, SGA Corporate Relations Comm.

To the Editor:

In spite of our territorial isolation, we at the Bohemian Love Pad remain concerned about events on campus. One such event is the regrettable conflict over the celebration of Old South Day by the KA’s. The most unfortunate aspect of the conflict was that the widespread protest against that celebration arose after the KA members were financially committed to the event. Thus, many members that were sympathetic with the protestors were also indignant and frustrated by the late date at which the protest began. They were trapped by the financial commitment on one side and questions of morality on the other — not an appealing place to be. We realize that there is a great deal of pain wrapped up in this issue and would like to ignore its existence. However, we feel more pain will be felt if we wait, once again, until commitments are made. Therefore, we hope the KA leadership and the Black Student Coalition leadership, as well as the rest of the student body, will take a few moments to reflect on the past conflict and decide what course of action will be proper this year.

John M. Hartman, Jr. ’82
Jeff Hamilton ’82

BSC on the wrong track?

To the Editor:

Allow us to begin by pointing out that we do not wish to offend anyone, and offer sincere apologies to those whose toes we may tread upon. We are merely presenting an opinion, one that is subject to be changed as well as criticized. We write on the subject of the Black Student Coalition. My colleagues and I feel that the motive behind the organization is questionable in merit. We look upon it as a form of segregation and (lacking a better term) discrimination. We are quick to accede, of course, that the BSC is basically the same as any other political or religious group. After all, the basis of group psychology is a shared similarity. We feel, however, that a group should not exploit a similarity that is (we think) inconsequential to the campus as a whole. We are aware, of course, that birds of a feather flock together and (we beg your agreement) there is undeniable wisdom in sex-segregated dorms. We merely feel that if a group chooses to distinguish itself, it should be on the basis of something other than an issue that has taken (and will take) years to resolve.

We do not mean to say that the BSC does not contribute to the college (indeed we can think of no one who does not contribute something). We applaud your activities. Perhaps our conception of the BSC is wrong. In such a case we again apologize. We would enjoy (for once) being wrong.

Jayson P. Mock ’84
James C. Carson IV ’84