Football loses to Bucknell - Coach Farrell contemplates third loss
by Steve Soud ‘84

Across the centuries, many of mankind’s greatest minds have pondered the nature of the “soul.” Plato, Shakespeare, Milton, and Calvin all did their fair share of soul-searching. Add to that list the 1981 Davidson College football team.

“We’ve been doing a lot of soul-searching lately,” said Coach Ed Farrell. That’s no small wonder in light of a 23-3 Wildcat loss at Bucknell Saturday which dropped their record to 1-3. Farrell’s soul-searching has led him to two basic conclusions about the problems, and they stem from what have to be considered the most important phases of the game — offense and defense. On offense, the problem has been inconsistency, whereas the defense has an adjustment problem. The defense has been absolutely devastating against what would be considered opponents’ offensive strengths, but has been slow adjusting to tactical shifts away from these fortes.

Both problems were in evidence Saturday. Bucknell took the wind in the first quarter, but the defense had a field day, as they shut down completely the Bison offense. No first downs, no anything. So Davidson kept good field position, and when the second quarter came around and the wind was at the Cats’ back, the offense rolled. Just about the entire second quarter was played on the Bucknell side of the fifty-yard line, and eventually Davidson worked its way to first and goal at the Bucknell 9. The first play was a fullback trap (see diagram) to Ray Sinclair, which went for three yards. The second down play called for a play-action pass (fake to running back, then pass), and that was where the offensive inconsistency began. Quarterback Keith Martin chose to keep the ball and run, but he was nailed and suffered a shoulder strain. No practice for Keith for a week.

As Farrell looked at the bench, he again had a problem. Although Brian Whitmire had played exceptionally well at practice in the week following the Lafayette game, he had come down with a bad case of strep throat, lost eighteen pounds. All that without practicing. Frosh QB Jeff Haney was by no means ready to run the offense, so it was Whitmire, weakened, or no quarterback at all. It was third and goal from the five, and Whitmire came in to execute beautifully on a pass play. The other end of the deal didn’t work out so well, though, as the receiver dropped the ball in the end zone. Gary Sims came in and kicked the 22-yd. field goal.

Problems on offense

That series, however, illustrated beautifully what has plagued the Wildcats all year — inconsistency on offense. It can’t be narrowed down to any one group because they’ve all done it. Overthrown passes, dropped passes, missed blocking assignments, foul-ups in the backfield, the list goes on. After all, it is almost without exception a young offense, but something’s going wrong and Farrell is quick to admit, “We’re still floundering on execution.” The offense still couldn’t get things going properly as it missed several first downs around midfield. Opportunity knocked but had the door slammed in its face. All this time the defense was putting on a stellar performance. With 2:4 minutes left on the first...‘Half clock, Bucknell had been denied a first down, and when it finally came, the Bison fans cheered in mock applause. But here the defensive problem cropped up. Bucknell shifted offenses and on a series of screen passes and the like, they moved to the seconds that set the stage for a field goal into a strong wind by a freshman placekicker. The teams went into the locker room tied at three apiece, and although Davidson had dominated the game, momentum had turned to the hosts.

That's pretty much where momentum stayed. The new varsity team has yet to win a game, but they are excited about just playing. DAVIDSONIAN Fidel GOMinbaiegY: four quarters tomorrow, a win might come. Midnight madness by Hussey and his team on Thursday, 15 October, with a Midnight celebration to create enthusiasm, looking for a oneness of the whole camp.

Bucknell turned one of its early possessions into a touchdown. With second and long and William Bynum, blitzing, literally breathing down his shoulder pads, the Bison quarterback threw a Hail Mary pass to his halfback, who beat the Wildcat secondary on a 70-yard TD sprint. Somehow that score took the wind out of Davidson’s sails, and Bucknell engineered a sustained drive for a second TD on their next possession. That 60-yard drive put the score at 17-3. Bucknell’s last six points came on two field goals which included a 52-yarder that left everyone wondering if this kid was pro material. Final score: Bucknell 23, Davidson 3.

Versus Boston tomorrow

Play by the Wildcats wasn’t as gloomy as it might seem. Everyone played aggressively, and the team hasn’t lost morale. But before they’ll see the winner’s circle again, the wrinkles will have to be ironed out. “I really believe that we have the ability to work these problems out and to play to our potential,” says Farrell, but Wildcat fans are hoping to see all this done by tomorrow when the Cats host Boston University. BU took it to Davidson 35-14 last year at Boston in the first-ever meeting of these two teams. The Terriers boast a big offensive front and a great tailback running out of the T formation. If the offense is concerned, it’s doubtful, but Whitmire should be covered.

The NCAA has declared 15 October 1981 as THE day. That’s right, hoops will return to college basketball courts all over the country. They'll kick off the season at midnight. The festivities will start around 11:30 on 14 October with an inter-fraternity dunk contest (or some sort of contest) on an 8-foot goal. The DC Cheerleaders are co-sponsoring the event with the new j-ball staff, and someone may sponsor a keg for the group which shows the most enthusiasm. At 12:01 the 1981-82 Wildcat basketballers will take the court in the first clash of the season, an intra-squad game. “We’re doing it mainly because we want to create enthusiasm,” said Coach Hussey. “We want to get rid of the divisions among students and athletes, to create a mutual respect. The basic idea is that the team is representative of what Davidson stands for. What do they stand for? A breath of fresh air in Davidson athletics.”