Fire Safety College Seeks to Improve System by Pete Gulyn ‘84

The college is working to improve fire safety in campus buildings. Almost one year ago, Physical Plant Director Grover Meetze contracted Mr. Tommy Honeycutt, a veteran fireman of the Charlotte Fire Department who lives in Davidson, to conduct quarterly fire inspections of college buildings and to suggest improvements. The college is in the process of updating equipment and ridding the campus of the fire hazards Mr. Honeycutt has discovered.

Mr. Honeycutt claimed that although the college has been slow to take action on some problems, it is now correcting many of them. He said the college began making the corrections when he started sending summaries of his findings along with his reports to Mr. Meetze. For example, the Carolina Inn finally received two weeks ago the fire extinguishers it had requested years ago. The computer center and Chambers were also without extinguishers until two weeks ago. This year, the college has appropriated money to raise the water pressure in the campus fire hydrants. It must still find a contractor to do the job.

Problems with Fire Extinguishers

According to Security Chief Hughes, the college’s public safety director, the college has enclosed most of the fire extinguishers on campus in glass encasements to keep students from prankishly discharging the extinguishers. Students discharged over 100 extinguishers last year, leaving parts of buildings without protection. It cost the college approximately ten dollars apiece to refill them. Housing Director Bill Bolding reports to Chief Hughes on the status of fire safety equipment in the dormitories every month. So far this year, there has been no problem with the extinguishers protected in glass encasements, although one of the glass boxes was accidentally broken.

The most trouble for the college comes from student misuse of fire extinguishers and alarms, according to Maintenance Engineer Phillip Cashion, and the college has taken steps to remedy the problem. So many extinguishers were set off in Chambers that it became imperative that they be enclosed. Chief Hughes said that the Computer Room will also get special halogen fire extinguishers, superior to the conventional type because it leaves no residue to damage the computer.

Chief Hughes says that Davidson College has bought a total of seventy-five new fire extinguishers. Thirteen of these will be in the Commons, four in each new dorm, eleven in Chambers, and at least three dry-powder extinguishers will replace the water extinguishers in Richardson dorm. The recommended number of fire extinguishers is one for every seventy-five feet per floor. Every floor of every building will have at least one fire extinguisher, while Chambers and the Library will be equipped with at least two for each floor. The basement of every Patterson Court eating house will have a fire extinguisher.

Smoke detectors now adorn the ceiling of the top floor of every dormitory. Mr. Cashion plans to have heat detectors installed in each building by the end of the school year. He says that Mr. Bolding has just recently taught...the resi- * photo by Elizabeth Elkin ’85 dent advisors how to disarm the fire bells in case of false alarms. M’ Cashion is satisfied with the highly sophisticated alarms in the new dorms, called the Simplex alarm system, although there have been some problems with the complex equipment. He says that last week resident advisor John Odell called him at home around 9:30 AM to tell him that the “trouble bell” (which indicates a problem in the system) was ringing in Knox Dorm. The alarm in Knox has been out of operation since then. Cashion noted that the Simplex is the newest alarm on the market, and “like any very new equipment, it still has some bugs that have to be worked out.” The manufacturer sent a repairman to work on the alarm last week. The Simplex is covered by a warranty. Cashion said it will be repaired soon, but does not know how soon.

To remedy the hazard of only one exit in the center section of Duke Dormitory, the college made a door giving access to a side wing of the building on the second floor, and another door is planned for the third floor.

Remaining Hazards
Other hazards remain. M’ Honeycutt sees the warehouse and the cabinet shop as the worst fire hazard on campus, but sees no immediate remedy for their danger. Large red coded signs will be displayed to warn firemen of the twenty gallons of gasoline stored near the cabinet shop and the chlorine stored at the gym. Chief Hughes says that a persistent problem which could be solved is students cluttering the hallways with bicycles and other large items and using the boiler rooms of Patterson Court houses for storage. Although he conducts fire inspections for the Charlotte Fire Department, M’ Honeycutt said that he is “... not a fire inspector, as such.” He was hired by the College to make periodic inspections, and has only an advisory role. His inspections last about seven days. In his inspection, M’ Honeycutt examines each building on campus with a checklist written by Chief Hughes. The fire extinguishers as well as the fire alarms must be functional and easily accessible, storage areas neat and orderly, smoke detectors operational, stairwells and hallways clear of obstructions, stairwell doors closed, wiring and circuit breakers safe, and flammable liquids safely in storage. Fire exit signs should be legible and lighted.

The College is insured by the Insurance Company of North America, whose engineers examine Davidson’s buildings periodically, according to Business Manager Bob Currie. The insurance policy is renewed every three years. M’ Honeycutt said that the inspector for an insurance company would pay very close attention to the electrical wiring of a building to judge its fire risk. Wiring on elevators and air conditioners are especially important.

Serving Davidson students for over 30 years. Box 728 Davidson, NC 28036. DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981