Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

All Week: The Mint Museum, 3500 Shamrock Dr., Museum of History presents “Mountain Dew: Part II,” a show and sale of select North Carolina art. Gallery closed Monday.

All Week: 10:00 am - 6:00 pm

Pitt Chambers Gallery Exhibition. Works by three photographers: Robert Doisneau (France), Alken MacWeeny (Ireland), and Manuel Bravo (Mexico) explore the human condition and spirit from differing perspectives. Admission free.

December 4-6: Rowe Theater UNCC. For information: call 597-2478.

“Wind in the Willows”.

7:00 pm: Catawba College Crystal Lounge, College Community Centre. The Catawba College Choir presents its “Annual Christmas Madrigal Dinner”; Elizabethan Era music, tumblers, jesters, costumes. Reservations required.

All Day: Rifle range, Belk Dorm basement. Western Carolina Rifle Conference Tournament. Admission free.

7:00 pm: Johnston Gym. Women’s Basketball: Davidson vs. Catawba. Admission free.

8:00 and 10:00 pm: Love Auditorium. Pop Film: “Billy Jack,” an old favorite with the Bruce Lee set, juvenile but entertaining.

8:15 pm: Spirit Square. “New Swingle Singers” — everything from jazz, to French madrigals, to the Beatles. Student rates.

9:30 and 11:00 pm: 900 Room. Mike Cross. Singing country rock and pop, this talented singer/songwriter fiddles and plays a mean 12-string guitar. He’s really good and has a wide appeal. Tickets $3 per show.

See Mike Cross in the 900 Room.

8:00 pm: WDAV. Boston Pops: Director Erich Kunzel and the Boston Pops welcome violinist Amnon Levy who will perform the violin concerto No. 3 by Saint-Saëns. The concert begins with the Pops opener arranged by Hayman. Other works on the program are Bizet’s Prelude from Carmen; Dance of the Hours by Ponchielli; Tchaikovsky's Capriccio Italien, Op. 45; Selections from The Sound of Music; Pops Hoedown, another arrangement by Hayman; and Twelfth Street Rag by Bowman-Hayman.

8:00 pm: WDAV. Boston Pops: Director Erich Kunzel and the Boston Pops welcome violinist Amnon Levy who will perform the violin concerto No. 3 by Saint-Saëns. The concert begins with the Pops opener arranged by Hayman. Other works on the program are Bizet’s Prelude from Carmen; Dance of the Hours by Ponchielli; Tchaikovsky's Capriccio Italien, Op. 45; Selections from The Sound of Music; Pops Hoedown, another arrangement by Hayman; and Twelfth Street Rag by Bowman-Hayman.

8:15 pm: Hodson Hall. Marian Hahn on piano. Selections include Schubert's “Sonata in A Major Opus 120”, Beethoven’s “Fifteen Variations and Fugue Opus 35 Eroica”, Liszt's “Les jeux d’eaux à La Villa d’Este”, Ravel’s “Jeux d’eau” and Chopin’s “Sonata in B Minor Opus 58”.

9:00 pm: 900 Room. “Monday Night Football.” ID required.

10:00 pm: Flipsides WDAV.

12:30 pm: 900 Room. Oxfam Lunch: One dollar donation for World Hunger. Please come! Sponsored by the Student Service Corp.

6:00 pm: WDAV. Beethoven: Trio in B-flat Major, Op. 11.

---