THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Consider new dining service for new Commons

Starting from scratch—it’s a good idea for recipes and budgets. But it’s a dramatic and traumatic step to take with
a well-established institution. The new Commons presents the College with the opportunity to start from scratch in that most venerable
of institutions, the freshman food service. Next year, the food service will be housed in a different building with completely
new facilities. Why not make the service new, too?

Instead, the College is apparently going to let ARA Slater move straight into the Commons. ARA will propose changes, not
the College. The only proposal now in view is the introduction of “all you can eat” entrees. We are, then,
simply going to get more of what we have now. But why assume that ARA service is the best alternative
available? Slater is still more expensive than the Patterson Court eating houses, and its food certainly is not better.

The College did ask a consultant from Duke University to make recommendations about alternative food services, but his report is
“not available.” We can only conclude that it will not be used. Most importantly, the College must recognize that it
is students who eat at ARA Slater. Slater is, along with the hall counselor system, the universally shared Davidson experience.
Moreover, it is an institution students are eminently qualified to judge, since most go on to eating houses and thus
have a basis for comparison.

What do students want in their food service? The student food committee and the SGA could work with the College
and ARA to determine student needs and then develop ways to meet them. That big new building gives us a
great excuse to be imaginative. Let’s not waste it.

— Elizabeth Kiss

Starting from scratch

Revised EPC proposals are not worth the trouble

On Tuesday afternoon the faculty met in a special session to discuss the Educational Policy Committee’s (EPC’s) revised proposals for
curricular reform. The EPC proposals were also the topic of discussion in last week’s regularly scheduled faculty meeting and will
be again at a second special session, which will likely be held next week. It’s too bad the faculty is
maintaining a harried schedule not to reshape the curriculum, but merely to tinker with it.

Since the EPC proposals do not fundamentally differ from the present curriculum, the faculty and the EPC might do well
to pause and consider the purpose of curricular reform. Academic Vice President and EPC Chairman Price Zimmermann points out that
a college’s curriculum ought to be revised every decade, if for no other reason than to maintain a fresh perspective
on the college’s academic goals. If the faculty believes reform is needed, curricular review can be the first step in
instituting it. Such was the case in the mid-1960s when the Self-Study Report eventually produced the curriculum that we basically
follow today. If, on the other hand, the faculty is content with the status quo, curricular review can indicate the
adequacy of the present curriculum.

The faculty’s overwhelming opposition to the far-reaching proposals that the EPC proposed last fall may be evidence of such contentment
with the present curriculum. Thus, the crucial question is whether or not there should be fundamental reform of it at
all. Lengthy discussion of the present watered-down EPC proposals is no way to answer this question. Fine-tuning the curriculum has
its place, but we are now concerned with the broader issue. It’s time for a plebiscite.

The EPC’s utter failure to gather faculty support for its original proposals indicates that it is out of touch with
faculty sentiment. Hence the faculty’s desire for curricular reform can be assessed by direct means only by the faculty themselves.
The faculty ought to table the EPC proposals, ascertaining their desire for fundamental reform if indeed any exists. This is
the process that Zimmermann so cogently advocates: review for the sake of review, not change for the sake of change.
To continue discussion of the current EPC proposals is to dress the windows of an unbuilt house.

— John Siman

The Campus Forum

Draft

To the Editors:

This letter is to correct several misconceptions about The Davidson Registration and Draft Information Service. First, the information contained in
the 12/19 Campus Forum letter from DRDIS was accurate, though an unfortunate editing job made the letter rather confusing. The
letter was supposed to be a reprint of the short hand-out which was distributed to freshman males, though the editing
ruined its continuity as well as omitting an entire section. The current proposals cited come from the Selective Service’s report
to President Carter. Secondly, the five names listed at the end of the letter are not the full membership of
the group. DRDIS is a coalition of peoplefrom a broad spectrum of political views with a common concern that young
men have as much information at their disposal as possible when they make what could be one of the most
important decisions of their lives. DRDIS does not as a group counsel people to refuse to register, nor for that
matter, does it counsel them to register. DRDIS tries instead to provide information and guidance to those who are trying
to make their own decisions. Another misconception, which was unfortunately reported in last week’s Davidsonian, is that DRDIS uniformly counsels
those who choose to register not to include their Social Security number, which they are not legally required to do.
This is incorrect. Certainly, common sense would tell you that if anyone is already planning to attempt to avoid the
Draft by going underground, they would be foolish to include their SS number. Those who have no such intentions would
not be encouraged to do so. A prime concern of DRDIS is the status of Conscientious Objectors under the new
Draft. Time allowed for filing claims will likely be very short, and the restrictions much more severe. Those who are
considering this possibility should begin now to prepare. Anyone interested should contact a member of DRDIS or one of the
national CO groups immediately. I have two final points. One, I resent the imputation of motives such as selfishness to
DRDIS by some who have little knowledge of the group. Many members are women, and therefore unlikely to be drafted.
Personally, I am not eligible for military service because of an eye condition. Certainly, none of us claims to be
a saint, but neither are we indolent bums who are merely looking to avoid our obligations. In fact, I consider
helping young men who need and desire guidance to be my moral obligation. I intend to discharge this obligation to
the best of my admittedly weak ability. Two, I am sorry if the presentation of factual material on this issue
tends to sicken some people. My only comment is that they must have a very weak stomach.

J. Erik Christensen '82

J-Ball

To the Editors:

How about them sheep, huh?

Nick Graham, ATO Imac rep.

Tips

To the Editors:

This letter is written in the hopes that you will print it in the college paper, which will in turn
perhaps solve a problem that my sister and her co-workers share. I must remain nameless, along with the parties concerned,
in order to protect their jobs (and me from the wrath of my sister should she ever find out I
wrote this). My sister is a waitress at a local eating establishment where the students at Davidson College eat very
often. The students come in groups of two to fifty students at a time. This is great for business; however,
the waitresses do have a legitimate complaint. Of all the students they wait on, approximately 25% leave a tip. It
is very frustrating for any waitress to wait on twenty people and receive nothing from it. The students are beginning
to get a bad name at this particular place of business. None of the waitresses want to wait on them
anymore. I can assure you they give excellent service, but it is becoming increasingly difficult after each weekend when the
students pour into this establishment by the groves, run the girls to death, are sometimes loud and obnoxious, and leave
their waitresses, who are working for their tips, nothing! So to the Students of Davidson College: The 25% or so
of you who do tip are really very generous and these waitresses certainly appreciate your gratuities. As for the other
75%, please... have a heart; tip your waitress if she’s given you good service. They’ll give you even better service
and my sister will come home happy, instead of disappointed in a hard night’s work.

Brother of a waitress

DONALD CALDWELL News
GLENN KELLUM, JOHN KROTCHKO Features editors
JAMES BARRAT Opinions editor
JIM CROWE Sports
JEAN SORACCO Back page editor
MARGARET JACKSON, Production
SCOTT POWERS, Graphics assistants
JEFF DEMPSEY, ELIZABETH KISS, JOHN SIMAN Editors
MARY WOMBLE BARRINGER, FRED BROADWELL, BETH FINDLAY, KAREN SANDLIN, LAURIE SOPER, CARTER VEST, TIM WHALEN, DAVID PRETTYMAN, BERNADETTE WALTER, Production
associates
JIM RUMLEY, Staff artists
SALLY NEAL, MARK SHEFFIELD, Darkroom technicians
JEFF MANN Managing editor
DAVID MCCURRY Photography editor
PETER HAIRSTON Business manager
WARREN LACKEY Manager
SCOT MYERS Circulation manager
ANNE GOODWIN Asst. features editor
JAMES MOORE, LISA BUCKLEY, BILL APPLETON, ED DAUGHERTY

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic year (except over holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson
College. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 149 (office) and ext. 148 (print shop). Subscription
rate: $8 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, NC.
