Professors’ books look at issues past and present Palmer examines TV generation... By JAMES FUNSTEN Staff Writer

“I’m koo-koo for Cocoa Puffs! I’m koo-koo for Cocoa Puffs!” Most of us will remember this anthem blaring time and again between The Jetsons and Scooby-Doo as we sat entranced on those magical Saturday mornings. At the time, few of us realized television’s tremendous effect on our psychological development; we hadn’t the hindsight of twenty years. Psychology Professor Edward Palmer has, for the better part of twenty years, been interested in television’s effects on children, and he has recently edited a book on the matter entitled "Children and the Faces of Television," published by Academic Press.

“Studies in the field were fragmented, and I wanted to pull them all together,” Palmer explained. He realized that a great deal of study had been completed in three areas of television’s influence on children—violence, selling, and teaching. Each area had become a major issue, and each had an extensive history. Palmer compiled years of studies by several individuals into a work which now brings “synthesis and focus” to the complex field. Some of the conclusions the book draws are startling.

Palmer notes that because television is a powerful teaching tool, its violence often teaches children aggression as a way of life. Certainly, violence makes a vivid impression on young minds, regardless of whether the bad guys get caught by the equally violent good guys in the end. In the near future, violence levels on television are not likely to drop: an extensive survey recently concluded that television violence levels have not dropped since 1969. The government is reluctant to take a firm stand on television violence, fearing violation of the First Amendment. Yet we reap what we sow; the violent lifestyle children learn to emulate certainly does not deter new and startling crime waves which splash across front pages and invade quiet campuses. Violence sells, and that is very important to television networks. "Children and the Faces of Television" reveals subtle ways television treats violence to make it most appealing to the bulk of American viewers. For example, most aggressors are white, middle class, and male. Their victims are usually members of ethnic groups, women, the poor, or the elderly. The majority of the viewing audience is not threatened, and the children are given thousands of violent role models.

Television can sell violence, but it also sells products, and the children’s market is lucrative. Unfortunately, many products sold on television to children are less than wholesome, and some are harmful. Many people are concerned with unhealthy food products such as some cereals on the market which are 50% sugar. “It is ironic,” Palmer commented, “that while we adults place a great emphasis on health with our jogging and other athletic pursuits, the child is being inculturated into an unhealthy syndrome.” The methods used to sell are often just as damaging. Some advertisements call attention away from the product to a toy prize inside. And because children rarely understand that they are being sold to, they are bombarded with advertisements. Until recently, one hour of children’s programming had 18 minutes of advertising, although laws have now limited it to 9½ minutes. Advertising is also a source of child-parent conflict, simply because the parents do the buying. We can all remember whining for half an hour trying to get our parents to buy “Marvel the Mustang” because he’s “almost for real.” Some genuine resentment probably followed. Palmer points out that advertising can be used constructively; it is an effective teaching tool. The greatest example of its constructive use is Sesame Street.This program has adapted the idea of cartoon characters, such as “Big Bird,” and uses them to sell ideas instead of products to children. Like advertisements, the program has a fast pace to keep the child’s attention, and it uses cartoon segments. Sesame Street is distinguished from other children’s educational programs in that it studies the “market” beforehand just as advertisers do. Many educational programs haven’t the money to conduct such studies. One of the strongest conclusions of Children and the Faces of Television is that television is a highly effective teaching tool. There are certainly problems involved in changing some undesirable things children learn from television. The book does deal with the realities of change, such as decision-making, influence, and the problem of funding. But ultimately, it asks one important question: Will we, the public, decide to use this powerful medium for the degeneration or the amelioration of our children, and hence our society?

Shi recalls struggles of a public life
By JOHN KROTCHKO
Features Editor

History Professor David Shi describes the “literary intellectual” as a writer actively involved in the larger political/social issues of his day. His recently published book Matthew Josephson: Bourgeois Bohemian (Yale University Press) explores the life of one of modern America’s most prominent literary intellectuals in terms of the struggles which shaped both his public and private life. Shi sees Josephson’s life (1899-1978) as “a lens” through which “to focus on the broader developments and trends in the cultural and literary history of his period.”

The book traces Josephson’s development from an “art-for-art’s sake aesthete” to the literary intellectual. Josephson joined the apolitical “lost generation” of American expatriates in Europe in the twenties, dabbling in Dada, imagism, free verse, and other new forms of literary experimentation. In 1927, after his return to the United States, he was commissioned to write a biography of Emile Zola, whose successful literary attacks on French anti-semitism inspired Josephson to reconsider his career as a writer in terms of his “social obligation” as a citizen. With other American writers, he took a more vocal position in American affairs, editing the leftist magazine The New Republic and writing popular and influential political novels.

Josephson never gave up his purely literary aspirations, and his unresolved struggle between these and his sense of social responsibility dominated the rest of his life. “The tensions are what gave his life its dynamic,” Shi said.

Shi’s research led him to Josephson’s private papers, which the family allowed him to use. They “opened up for me a whole new person,” Shi said. The journals revealed another major role struggle in Josephson’s life which none of the other sources even hinted at. “Throughout his career,” Shi writes, “his creative and acquisitive instincts were at war; the struggle between living a life of art and earning a living... constituted one of the major hidden tensions of his life.” Josephson had to reconcile the necessity of his family, his middle-class income, and his job on Wall Street with his bohemian yearnings, Marxist sympathies, and apartment in Greenwich Village. That these paradoxes caused “self-doubts” and “anxieties,” Shi said, was not apparent from his public image or the impressions other writers had of him.

Shi has woven this personal element into the fabric of his book to produce a more comprehensive, penetrating “intellectual biography.” He writes: In probing the inconsistencies and paradoxes, false starts, and second guesses that were a vital part of Josephson’s life, I have relied extensively on his correspondence and his private journals.... These sources and emphases best reveal Josephson as he was: a man for whom the tense relationship between politics and literature, journalism and art, bohemian and bourgeois, provided the mainspring of his life and career.

Reply immediately to:
Cedar Mountain, NC 28718

Exciting summer jobs for college students or faculty as counselor/instructors in tennis, water ski, scuba, riflery, backpack, crafts, etc. Includes good salary, food, lodging, and a fun rewarding experience.
The Summit Camps
or call Ben M. Cart, Director
704/896-2508
kayak, canoe, Box 100