iLog in!

We’ve got a new computer system; here’s how to use it

by John Lusk ‘83

The Davidsonian sent its resident computer freak over to the computer center to find out some stuff for all the
non-computer freaks at this college: How do you use this new computer we just got?

Logging on

Well, go find a terminal. Right now, the only places you can find one are the old doctor’s offices, behind
the post office; and the old computer room in basement Chambers. Sit down and turn on the terminal. There’s a
little switch either under the front right corner, or way back in the back. If there’s a little blue box
called “Gandalf” beside the terminal, turn it on, too. Wait for things to warm up.

Now press the key labelled “New Line” after the terminal beeps at you. If you see an asterisk, type “20”
and hit “New Line.” This will not show up on the screen, but don’t worry, it’s there. The computer will
write “SERVICE 20,” and after a moment, “START.” Press “New Line” again. Now type “LOGIN”, followed by your UFD, and
your password, if you have one. Your UFD is your very own special thingamajig which you can ask for at
the computer center. It stands for User File Directory. If you make up a password, you must enclose the whole
thing (UFD and password) in single quotes.

You are now logged into the system. Pat yourself on the back. Now what? You have two basic options. You
can use the EDITOR to write stuff like a term paper or a letter, or you can write a program.
We hope there will soon be a printer in the old computer room that will have some very nice print,
so it won’t look like it came off a computer. There are already eight terminals there, four more than the
old computer had.

Programming in the new system

But suppose you want to write a program. Once you’re in PRIMOS (the screen says, “OK,” “ER!”), type “BASICV”, and
hit “New Line.” Now you can write a BASIC program, just like old times. But once you tire of Beginner’s
All-purpose Symbolic Instruction Code (BASIC), there are more sophisticated options, like FORTRAN, PL/I, COBOL, SPSS, and PASCAL.

To write a PASCAL program, for example, get into the EDITOR. Type in your program and save it. Get back
to PRIMOS. (To get back to PRIMOS from anywhere, type “QUIT” and press “New Line”.) Compile the program by typing
“PASCAL”, followed by your program's name (the name you saved it under), and “-L” (New Line). This transforms your program
from the English of PASCAL, which you can understand and the computer can’t, to the Greek of binary numbers, which
the computer can understand and you can’t. It also provides a listing so you can go back to see your
errors.

But let's assume it compiled without errors (Ha!). Now you must prepare your program to run. Type “SEG”, (New Line)
to call up the segment loader. Type “LOAD”, followed by your program’s name immediately preceded by a “ ”-(New Line).
Type “LO” and the name of the file which contains your compiled program. This loads your program into the runfile
named “PROGRAM”. Type “LI PASLIB,” (New Line) and “LI”, (New Line). This loads the various library modules your program calls
for. The terminal should say, “LOAD COMPLETE”. Now type “EX” (New Line). The computer will save your runfile and then
execute your program.

Editing

A word about the EDITOR: It has two modes, INPUT and EDIT. EDIT is not the EDITOR, it’s just a
part of the EDITOR. To get into the EDITOR, you must first be in PRIMOS. Type “ED” (New Line), and
you are in the EDITOR. When you’re in INPUT, everything you type goes in as data. If you type “ED”
in INPUT, that goes in as data. To get to EDIT, press “New Line” twice. When you're in EDIT, everything
you type is interpreted as a command. For example, if you type “DEAR MOM” in the EDIT mode, the screen
will print, “?” because “DEAR MOM” is not a valid EDITOR command. If you type “ED” in the EDIT mode,
the screen will print, “?” because “ED” is not a valid EDITOR command. (It is a PRIMOS command.) To get
to INPUT, press “New Line” twice.

Obtaining output

Now, if you want a hard copy of your program or EDITOR output, here’s what you do. In PRIMOS, type
“COMO”, followed by the filename under which you want your output to appear. Then run your program. When it ends,
type “COMO -END”. Then type “SPOOL”, followed by the COMO filename, and the name of the printer at which you
want your output to appear. Voila!

To wind up: these are the doors you have available to choose from in the new computer system. The keys
to those doors lie in the manuals strewn around the terminals. Go rummage around in them — you might have
some fun.

The new computer system tells you what you need to know in minutes, as opposed to days. People can talk
directly to the computer now, too. If something goes wrong, you have only yourself (or the computer) to blame.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 23 October 1981

graphic by Scot Myers
