10—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

In veritate magna vis

Destructo 69

By THE BRICK BROTHERS and THE DOUGHBOYS

Bear. Now that’s out of the way. We’re not doing IMAC anymore, so the big question is what is the next most important thing we could think of to write about? Well, how about them hostages or Reagan or the Super Bowl or Vinson House? No. Let’s write about self-selection.

First, when is self-selection? Well, we don’t exactly know when, but then again, nobody else does either and furthermore, they won’t know for a while and when they do, it’ll be later than it would be for it to have mattered anyway.

Self-selection. Think about it—why would you select yourself in the first place? Most people would rather have someone else. After all, you can always have yourself. Maybe it should be self-conscription. On second thought, let’s have Philosophy Department Chairman Rob Campany and his understudies get together and really confuse things in an enlightened fashion.

Enough of this school. Let’s move on and take a sentimental journey around Patterson Court and help those freshmen make a decision that will determine Percy Badham’s future happiness:

PKA—Does PIKA still mean foosball? Only in America could this group of overweight, unshaven, non-athletic, overly academic, and Wildcat-basketball-crazed young men come together and form a “fraternity.” Founded by Horatio Alger in 1893, this Cinderella story of a fraternity has reached its midnight. Don’t forget your slippers. Also, this house had the discretion to elect a hall counselor as its Rush Chairman, a move heartily endorsed by national PIKA advisor Bert Lance. In conclusion, Mark Carpenter (lonely weekends) may be Patterson Court’s answer to Herschel Walker, but he simply can’t do it all. Our recommendation: don’t join; you can throw a football.

PHI DELT—Join if you dare. This bunch hates all fraternities at Davidson, including their own. The big question here is finances; Graham crackers get old after a while. They’ve tried everything to raise money—from recycling broken dorm windows to selling “used” lamp posts. These gentlemen, led by a strong defensive line, dominate Will Terry’s Top Ten. The social program has run the gamut from air guitar parties to air Roman orgies to air meals. As a silver-haired sage of the gridiron once proclaimed, “This fraternity is not a game. It’s a war.” Our recommendation: evade the draft.

SAE—Rich yet obnoxious. These guys have imported more than Pier Seven: a high tariff could cast them into financial insolvency. The SAEs have an excellent collection of “trains,” particularly the Meredith models. This is a house of paradoxes—most money, worst furniture; most volume, worst music; Pat Sheridan, John Thompson. What’s really needed here is a button remover. These guys wish they had Mark Carpenter, but they really couldn’t use him unless they were in Rock Hill. The best thing about this house is that one fourth of them graduate.Every year, more than that, one half of them graduate every two years. If you haven’t heard of Stuart Y. Bondurant and Jack Sullivan by now, you better ask somebody.

Our location, Houston, is the nation’s fastest-growing business center. Our recommendation: take your duck shoes elsewhere.

KA—Golly gee. What a swell bunch of fellas. This is the best place in the world to not do what you thought you might enjoy doing. Girls once adored the Southern Gentleman, but feminine discontent has transformed this house into a part of the Dominican order. Milk is natural, but don’t tell any of the fellas how you get it out of a cow. Trivia question—What do KA’s do when they “circle up” (without dates, of course)? If Robert E. Lee had only known who idolized him, he would have burned Atlanta. These doggone hard-chargin’ sons of biscuiteaters are the toughest bunch this side of Reagan’s son. But still, they’re really neat and have one of the keenest flickerball teams on campus. Our recommendation: join, everybody else does.

RUSK—Frustration in the shape of a spud. Who eats more than Renee? Social projects include a medieval mixer with Belmont Abbey. Bring your own Xerox machine. Hi Carie. One of the most feminine things about Rusk is that it serves food “geared to women,” which almost, but not quite, compensates for them having the women’s field hockey team. Check your chromosomes. The house is well-governed—meetings tend to resemble a Saturday in San Salvador. If you cry, I won’t. You know, if Rusk were a sorority, they’d be just like they are now. Our recommendation: don’t sit next to Renee unless you want to lose a limb.

EVERYBODY ELSE ON THE COURT—If you don’t fit in with any of the above pathologies, try joining one of these places. They are most appropriate for people who ate in their rooms as freshmen. Each is distinctive in its own way, but there’s not much to say about them as a group, so we won’t. Our recommendation: don’t sit by Renee, emulate Mark Carpenter, don’t play foosball, don’t shag, don’t cross a field unless you want your chromosomes checked, and don’t shotgun. The barrel is pointed at you. Can’t wait for the Commons.

We apologize to Tim Bethea, whose article “What the Butler Saw brings Comedy to Studio Workshop” was attributed to Tim Betuen in last week’s paper.