Western creditors forced Polish price increases — ‘Solidarity’ is the outcome

Question: ‘What is proletarian internationalism?” Answer: “That’s when there is no meat in Moscow—and strikes break out in Poland.” But
proletarian internationalism can also loom ominously when Poland’s “fraternal” Soviet neighbor has assembled 26 divisions on the border. In the
much-publicized and often confusing situation today in Poland, however, the subject of meat shortages connotes two aspects of the Polish
crisis which underlie the more well-known accounts of Solidarity strikes, government upheavals, and patriotic fervor.

A rumor circulating in Poland alleges that some railroad workers in Lublin initiated the earliest strikes of the summer of
1980 when they happened upon some damaged gallon cans of paint in boxcars headed for the Soviet Union and found
them to contain not paint but canned ham. Meat shortages have long been a problem in Poland, but in 1980
the situation became critical when the regime simultaneously raised meat prices with announcements of further rationing. When Poles could find
meat at all, it usually meant a two-to four-hour wait in lines of disgruntled shoppers.

The railway workers’ response was symbolic of the Poles’ increasing reluctance to continue to live “on two levels,” a time-honored
pattern typical of Eastern Europe. As a Western scholar who recently visited Poland notes, “There is the official level, the
‘party line,’ the level which has government sanction and approval; and then there is the private level, a kind of
semi-underground wherein the ‘truths’ of the official level are derided with thinly-veiled, often bitter cynicism.” Nobel laureate poet Czeslaw Milosz
has compared this phenomenon to the Islamic concept “Ketman,” after the belief that deception of one’s adversaries about what one
truly believes is essential to survive. Poles have long practiced the deceit of public espousal of the virtues of communist
principles and socialist planning, coupled with privately undisguised criticism, bitterness, and, of course, biting satire.

Louis Ortmayer, Political Science

The grade school class responded eagerly to the query about what had happened to the school cat. The teacher picked
out one young girl: “Our cat had kittens and they're all good communists.” The teacher was pleased. The following week,
the little girl raised her hand again. “Our kittens are no longer communists.” “Why?” asked the puzzled teacher. “Because they've
opened their eyes.”

The onrush of events this past year may be viewed as a floodtide of the disaffection and pent-up frustration of
the daily realities of life (the private level) spilling over the barriers of party and government, but also as the
expression of the inner Polish desire no longer to play the dupe in charade socialism. Polish workers and their organizers
have challenged the “official” explanation and governmental posturing. Thus, the strikes have emerged not merely as the realization of workers’
power, and as a forceful bargaining tool in dealing with the dual-reality lifestyle of Eastern Europe on three fronts. Economically,
the Poles have raised the banner of true Marxist principles—the right to strike, the right to freely elected trade unions,
and an end to press censorship—directly alongside the caricatured Marxism promoted by the Polish communist party and its Soviet mentors.
They have consequently struck at the all too apparent shortcomings of Soviet-style planning and decided instead to pursue their own
course, seemingly regardless of the costs. This is the political front. And thirdly, the Poles are trying to revive earlier
efforts to give a “human face” to socialist economics and politics, to eliminate the debilitating dissemblance of life on two
levels.

The repercussions of meat shortages as a catalyst for the spontaneous strikes sweeping Poland have also focused attention on that
country’s massive indebtedness to the West. The current $21 billion debt may double in the next five years and the
circumstances threaten not only the authority of the ruling communist party but also the stability of Western financial institutions and
the future of East-West relations. Poland turned to Western credit markets in the early 1970s for loans to finance consumer
sector investment and purchases of Western technology and grains in an effort to energize a lackluster economy with massive outside
injections of resources. Warsaw seized on the foreign expedient as a substitute for economic and political reform. The Polish debt
syndrome arose when huge debt repayments became due at precisely the time when an already faltering economy stagnated (-2% loss
in GNP in 1979) because of the lack of necessary internal reforms. Compounding the problem were successive poor harvests, and
Poland desperately turned westward for additional hard currency quick fixes. By this time, Western credit institutions were increasingly entrapped in
their own policy. Financiers recognized that the time had long since passed to cut their losses and they made efforts
to continue lending in order to protect those loans already on the books. An old industry adage underscores this paradox:
“Make a small loan and you create a debtor; make a large loan and you have created a partner.” The
banks have become unwilling to force the choice of repayment or default on a massive debtor like Poland even though
it may have tremendous difficulty even financing that debt.

But when the Western bankers gathered with Polish officials last spring, they demanded a quid pro quo for “rolling over”
Polish deficits. They determined that more hard currencies would become available for repayment if the Polish regime tightened up its
economy. Specifically, the bankers zeroed in on the issue of the Polish food subsidy system, whereby the prices of basic
foodstuffs like meat and bread had been kept artificially low since 1970 at an annual cost to the government of
some $6 billion. A short time later, price increases were announced.by Warsaw and the rest is history.” Since the onset
of the crisis, Western banks predictably have intervened on behalf of their debtor/partner; three special loans arranged by syndicates headed
by Bank of America and West Germany’s Dresdner Bank have barely kept the economy afloat. Strikes have cost the Polish
economy $1.5 billion in production and probably that much more in unrealized trade. Therefore, despite the creditors’ intentions and directives,
or perhaps because of them, Poland today is deeper than ever in debt and less capable of repayment than before.
Consumer sector austerity has been reversed and the strategy of squeezing the workers in order to pay back the West
is no longer a politically feasible option. The specter of Polish default is sufficient to bring a series of additional
Western loans and roll-overs, for the impact of such a development could be catastrophic for the Western financial system. It
could set off a chain reaction of defaults by heavily indebted Third World states which are in worse shape than
Poland. Finally, eventual Soviet intervention in Poland, should it coincide with a period of intense hostility in U.S.-Soviet relations, might
make default more than an abstract and unlikely future. The question of meat prices in Poland has international implications of
which we in the West should be more aware. Question: “How many Poles does it take to pay off a
debt...?” (Copyright, The Chicago Tribune, used by permission)

Peasant’s Perspective

Pedro ekes out a meager living on a piece of land high in the mountains. He leaves every morning to
carve out a crop of potatoes from the unforgiving land. When he stops to rest a minute he looks out
over the fertile lands below him which belong to el Senor Patron, and shakes his head. Senor Patron cultivates parts
of his land to subsidize his export-import business. Usually, though, his business does well and the land lies idle. Pedro
hears now and then about the affairs of the national government. He knows that el Senor Patron is respected because
last year the government helped him regain land he had lost to squatters. This puzzled Pedro since el Senor Patron
doesn’t use the land anyway, but he didn’t interfere.

Pedro remembers all too well the last time the peasants tried to deal with the government. It all started when
the landowner in the next valley expanded his farm to include the land of several peasant families. The government backed
the landowner as usual. Tempers were aroused and many peasants decided to take the land back. They were tired of
moving higher up the mountains in search of land. They found it easy to get other peasants involved and called
a general strike. Several city people joined in shouting ideology. For the peasants all that mattered was getting their land
but they welcomed any help. Pedro vaguely remembers the city people’s knack for organization. They were able to arm and
teach the peasants how to work effectively against the government. Pedro also remembers the brutal warfare that ensued. Well-equipped government
troops moved from town to town killing anyone suspected of rebellion.

Pedro never quite understood the situation. He was familiar with the country called USA because his village had received aid
from them in a time of famine. He had been told that this nation favored freedom, democracy, and capitalism. Pedro
had not understood what this meant so one of the foreigners explained that they thought each man should be able
to speak as he wished, go where he wished, vote for a ruler, and even work at a job of
his choice. These were hard ideas for Pedro since he knew none of them. Pedro had liked this country—after all,
they fed his family during the famine and they wanted men to be free—which sounded good. What puzzled Pedro most
about this USA was what he learned after the terrible war. He found that the national army had been trained
and armed by the USA. How could this country that supposedly supported freedom, democracy, and capitalism also support a repressive
government that shot peasants for speaking out at the loss of land, that ruled without asking, and cared nothing about
peasants and their jobs? Pedro grew to hate this people that gave food to keep people alive and arms to
make them suffer quietly. He dared not speak out in favor of the squatters though. The memories of the war
still lingered like the stench around the corpses.

Pedro figured he would just continue plowing his piece of unfertile ground. He was safe—nobody could use his land. But,
when Pedro looked at his four boys and two girls, he thanked God for blessing him with helping hands. He
also wished more and more that he could give them fertile lands from which they could prosper. Alas, he could
not; they would work his land and the land higher up. The eldest already talked of trying to squat on
some of the unused valley land. Pedro warned him of the deadly efficient guns that protected that land, but his
son still wanted to try. The present misery and the illusion of owning the rich lands drew him and others
to throw themselves into the effort of acquiring the land and into the path of USA rifles.

Danny Armistead is a junior religion major living in Johnson City, Tennessee. He came to Davidson, however, from Ecuador, where
his parents are Presbyterian missionaries. He has a strong interest in the effects of American foreign policy on Latin American
countries and wrote this article from a peasant’s perspective. “This is not a common approach,” he said, “but it is
one with which I am most acquainted and, I believe, representative of the situation in many Latin American countries.”
