-THE DAVIDSONIAN
Magna Vis Veritatis
Volume LXX, Number 12
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. 28306, January 16, 1980

No classes for two days due to epidemic - over 500 ill

By RICK JENKINS
Staff Writer

A major flu epidemic that affected over 600 Davidson students this week caused the longest suspension of classes in at least twenty years. The College’s executive committee met Monday morning and decided to cancel classes for the first two days of the week. Vice-President for Academic Affairs Price Zimmermann explained that the hiatus would allow students to concentrate on a quick recovery rather than on their studies for a few days.

College Physician Ron Hunt said the virus resembles the Bangkok type-A influenza that is sweeping the Carolinas. Throat cultures have been sent to Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte to help determine its exact strain, he said. The symptoms, according to Hunt, include high fever in the 102-104 degree range, muscle aches, chills, sore throat, and a host of minor ailments. The severest symptoms generally last 2-3 days, and about a week is required for the patient to fully regain his strength. Hunt pointed out that one can build an immunity to the virus.

The first case Hunt observed at Davidson was about a week before most students returned from Christmas break. “Then the very first Monday back it began to hit,” he added. The College infirmary accommodated a steady stream of patients beginning last Thursday and not easing until after the weekend, according to Infirmary Supervisor Dorothy Sherrill. Hunt said the virus probably reached its peak over the weekend, “with a minimum of 400 affected, and probably over 500.” All of the infirmary’s 23 beds were filled during the time. “Things are calm now,” Sherrill said, and added that only five patients are currently in the infirmary. Sherrill thanked infirmary-bound students for their cooperation and agreeable nature. “It could have been a lot worse,” she said.

Most of the cases were reported by student volunteers who were organized by the Dean of Students’ office to distribute juice, soup, and aspirin to flu victims confined to their dorm rooms. Hunt predicted that some cases will continue to arise for the next few weeks, but in rapidly decreasing numbers, “since most people know what is going around and are beginning to take care of themselves.”

Dean of Students Will Terry remembered only two occasions in recent history when classes were cancelled: a half-day suspension when President John F. Kennedy was buried, and a one-day moratorium protesting the Vietnam War. Terry said that Saturday, February 7 has been designated as an available make-up day for classes.

Alumni come through

By TIM WHALEN
Staff Writer

The Living Endowment campaign raised over $500,000 last year, exceeding its goal by over 14 percent, according to the director of the Living Endowment, Lee Willingham. He added that exact figures will be available next week. Last year’s goal was $438,000—$70,000 dollars more than was raised in 1979. In exceeding the...

Donald Plott

By DONALD CALDWELL
News Editor

Professor Donald Plott left his post as Chairman of the Music Department on January 5 for health reasons. Plott, 58, has taught at Davidson since 1951 and has chaired the department since its creation over twenty years ago. In a memorandum to the faculty Wednesday, the administration announced that Music Professor Wilmer Welsh would become the department’s new...

Doctors discovered a tumor in Plott’s brain in November. He is presently undergoing chemotherapy in Charlotte. Plott said that the therapy was taking up an increased amount of his time, and said he wanted to spend more time with his family. “Though I'd like to continue, my stamina has been weakened these past few weeks. I think my decision is in the best interests of the College.” Plott resigned as conductor of the Charlotte Oratorio Singers last December after 20 years...At the podium, though he remains choral director of the Steele Creek Presbyterian Church in southern Mecklenburg County. He has held the latter position for 27 years. Plott also asked to be relieved of his responsibilities as director of both the Male Chorus and Chamber Choir. The department has chosen Mary Nell Saunders of Charlotte to conduct the groups until the end of the academic year. Saunders, who is also the new director of the Charlotte Orator, will also accompany the Male Chorus on its annual tour this spring. The department will begin a search in the near future for someone to direct the College groups permanently. Henny Driehuys of Charlotte will be teaching voice for the remainder of the year in Plott’s place, but the department hopes to find someone permanent by next fall. This person would also direct the Male Chorus and Chamber Choir. Welsh praised Plott for his work over the past three decades. “He’s taken what was once a small program and built it into something truly remarkable,” Welsh said.

Requirements kept to a ‘minimum,’ Zimmermann says
By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

The faculty's reception of the Educational Policy Committee's revised core curriculum proposals was inconclusive. But EPC members are still modestly confident about their proposal’s chances of approval. EPC Chairman and Academic Vice President Price Zimmermann said he felt the “basic elements” of the proposals would eventually be passed. “We've tried to keep requirements to a minimum,” Zimmermann said, explaining the EPC’s modifications of its earlier proposals. Elimination of single course requirements in economics and philosophy, he explained, were in keeping with the present Blue Sky curriculum’s philosophy of flexibility. “The revised proposals would allow scheduling decisions to depend on the “advising system” and the “good sense of students,” Zimmermann added. A fourth-term language competency, rather than a requirement, would make the language curriculum more flexible, according to Zimmermann. Intensification of lower-level courses would make it possible for some students to achieve a fourth-term level competency in three terms, he said. Special drills and programs would ideally be available to help such students. French Department Chairman Hallam Walker, also an EPC member, said the French department plans to intensify its lower-level course based on a method developed at Dartmouth. Walker said students would be exempted from the fourth term if they could demonstrate proficiency on the fourth-term level in literature or culture. Student EPC member Elizabeth Medlin, who opposed the fourth-term foreign language requirement in the original proposal, said she was pleased with the new flexibility.

Faculty defers vote on EPC revisions
By EDITH PARKER
Staff Writer

The Educational Policy Committee’s revised version of its proposals for a new core curriculum prompted lengthy discussion but no vote at Tuesday’s faculty meeting. The EPC had decided to modify its original proposals on the basis of the reaction they received from faculty and students when they were released last October. Major modifications included elimination of the requirements that each student take an economics and a philosophy course and a course dealing primarily with the Christian faith. The proposed fourth-term foreign language requirement was changed to a competency. Students could either take a fourth-term course at Davidson or receive credit for intensive courses, participation in summer institutes, or foreign study. The committee also changed the proposed mathematics requirement from a competency to a regular area requirement. Students could still satisfy this requirement by showing proficiency on a placement test.