8—The Davidsonian—January 30, 1981

Features

Film Review
Nick Graham

In the absence of any Pop Film activity this weekend—a combination of Urban Cowboy dances and Herbie Mann’s jazz is
thought to have taken the shine off Mr. Newcomb’s regis—I had been looking forward to reviewing the forthcoming Fine Film
next week only to be told that it's been squeezed out of a heavy college schedule for next week. However,
the connoisseur of fine films and scintillating cinema need not despair, for a relatively lean week does have at least
one consolation. This is the showing of Honeysuckle Rose tonight (Thursday) at 8 p.m. in Love, the first event in
the Midwinters celebration. A recent Hollywood production (1980), it stars Dyan Cannon and Willie Nelson in an exploration of country
music and life on the road. Willie plays a country singer—who may or may not be Willie Nelson thinly disguised—unable
to decide whether he’s married to his wife (Ms. Cannon) or his music (the charms of which are considerably enhanced
by an attractive duet partner). A familiar, hackneyed plot, you may think? To a certain extent, yes, but such things
seem to be of the essence of every country song I’ve ever heard, and the film commendably eschews the excesses
of mawkish sentimentality one tends to associate with the musical genre. Dyan Cannon, clad in spray-on jeans and an insufficient
blouse, smolders to considerable effect throughout, and Willie Nelson extends the range of his acting far beyond what was promised
by his brief appearance in Electric Horseman. The major problem of the film, however, is that as an investigation of
the marital problems which purport to be its subject matter, Honeysuckle Rose simply lacks any sort of penetration. Viewed as
a documentation and celebration of the great American myths of life on the road and the enriching powers of music
in human experience, it is undoubtedly more successful, leaving one feeling vaguely uplifted by it all and somehow better disposed
to one’s fellow men. As such, it is probably the perfect antidote to Midwinters.

The one note of concern this week embraces the apparent relegation of both Fine and Pop Films to final place
in the order of Davidson’s cultural priorities. My main grouse here is with the cancellation of the Fine Film. Pop
Films regularly draw a rather larger audience and hence arguably suffer less by a disruption of their schedule. Still, it
would be nice to have an alternative for non-jazz cinephiles on Friday night simply because the more chances people have
of seeing quality films at Davidson, the better. The cancellation of An American in Paris is an altogether greater disappointment.
Next week’s schedule at the Union and around College is a heavy one, and it is a shame that room
could not be found for an excellent film. Fine Films seem to have a precarious, irregular audience at times, and
cancellations of its schedule simply mean that fewer people come to regard a quality film on Wednesday night as a
regular event of their week. This is not to suggest that people should be encouraged to watch films simply because
of the utter paucity of other entertainment, but it would be a good idea if some of the people could
see all of the films some of the time. Perhaps an alternative showing should have been sought out with greater
assiduity. Certainly, the film’s loss is a sad blow to Davidson cinema-goers.

Plus: This week’s Cinematic Quiz. What exactly is a coruscating regis? The lucky winner may win a night out at
the cinema of their choice with The Davidsonian’s film critic.

The Kays present a country alternative. Line filled with sex; 75th, with old people

By EAN SORACCO
Back Page Editor

What do five people standing in line and a seventy-fifth high school reunion have to do with each other? They
are the basic plots of Line and 75th, the Theatre Workshop plays being presented this Thursday and Friday. Both are
the work of Israel Horovitz, a contemporary American playwright. Directed by Senior Sheri Gravett, Line involves five characters who manipulate
and trick each other out of first position in line. “It is a very brutal play filled with sex and
violence but also very funny, although it takes a serious turn towards the end,” Gravett said. Gravett has found the
play a challenge to direct since there is no set except a white tape line. “The cast is experienced,” Gravett
said, “and I haven't restricted their addition of stage movements that each felt was necessary to his character.” The cast
of Line includes Esther Bruce, Dave Dusseault, Charlie Lovett, Lindsay Robertson, and David Webb. Seventy-fifth is directed by Senior Ed
Gaynor. The story takes place at a seventy-fifth high school class reunion in which theOnly two surviving class members do
not remember each other. The comedy is built upon their acquaintance and “The jokes are not what one expects from
two 93-year-olds,” Gaynor said. “The play is a low-key comedy that has been fun to direct and should be fun
for the audience.” “Most difficult,” Gaynor continued, “has been getting the two cast members to develop a relationship like that
of the characters.” They are freshman Pat Donley and senior Laurie Campbell. “The two plays have been put together to
show the different aspects of Horovitz and the development of his style,” Gaynor said. Line was first produced in 1971.
75th is the second in the series “The Quannapowitt Quartet,” which is from a larger work, The Wakefield Cycle. Performances
are at 7 p.m. Thursday and 4 p.m. Friday in the workshop in Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Laurie Campbell and
Pat Donley try to become friends in 75th. He did it for love and money (David McCurry).

Trivia turns scholarly in Nelson’s Almanac
By JAMES FUNSTEN
Staff Writer

You can cram an extra person into a Volkswagen, or wait another hour on top of a flagpole in order
to make it into the Guinness Book of World Records, but you must be American and literary to be recorded
in English Professor Randy Nelson’s new Almanac of American Literature. Nelson has collected years of trivia and anecdotes and compiled
it all into one large volume to be released as a Book-of-the-Month Club selection this spring.

“It all started in grad school,” Nelson said. While there, he began collecting statistics and bizarre tales from his studies
and discussions with other students. “The book is full of those things that an English teacher always wants to tell
his students but has no time to,” Nelson said. He began organizing his data five years ago. Nelson insists the
book is not a scholarly work, though it does represent a great deal of research.

The book is divided into sections which examine American literature from a variety of angles. For example, one chapter entitled
“Banned in Boston, and Elsewhere” inspects censorship through the ages. In this section, one finds that the Bible was almost
banned in 1833 because of its profanity, and that Catcher in the Rye by J.D. Salinger is the censor’s favorite
book. Salinger’s book has been banned somewhere every year since it was first published in 1955.

Another chapter entitled “Collector’s Items” lists rare publications. Some works have particular anecdotes attached. One bizarre tale revolves around Paradise
Crater by Philip Wylie, published in 1945. In this book, World War II is still being fought in 1965, and
there is specific mention of a uranium-enriched A-bomb. Because no one was supposed to know such devices existed in 1945,
Wylie was arrested by the FBI and his work withheld from publication until after Hiroshima was bombed.

Perhaps one of the oddest sections of the Almanac deals with Pulitzer Prize losers. This section may raise serious questions
about contemporary literary values. Take a look at the losers of 1929: Faulkner’s Sartoris and The Sound and the Fury,
Wolfe’s Look Homeward, Angel, and Hemingway’s A Farewell to Arms were all denied the prize. The winner was Laughing Boy,
by an author who remains obscure.

Still other chapters deal with hoaxes, forgeries and thefts, best sellers, and real people who have been represented in American
fiction. Some chapters are pure statistics, such as who wrote the most and earned the least. Nelson insists that every
fact or story in his almanac can be found in the Davidson College library with the help of the interlibrary
loan system. The only problem he had in putting his book together was time, and he is quick to note
that any student in his freshman composition class could have put the book together, “given a bit of originality.”

Nelson was aided by his “pack-rat mentality” and by his extensive knowledge of American authors. He has read at least
three biographies on every major author, and at least one on every minor author. “I did it for love and
money,” Nelson said as he sat back in his chair. Apparently, the “hothouse atmosphere” of the university presses has driven
Nelson to a bona fide publishing company, and the move has been worth it. The Book-of-the-Month Club has selected the
book, published by William Kaufmann, Inc., for its own ranks.

ATO presents Midwinters
Waffle house with fruit, ice cream, and more!
Live entertainment
Saturday night, January 31
1-3 AM
Tickets on sale at P.O. 10-11 AM
or see our signs around campus for dorm representatives
$2.50/person or $4.00/couple
