January 30, 1981—The Davidsonian—7

Gamecocks topple Wildcats as Zam Fredrick pours in career high 41 points

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

Chalk up one, a 101-88 win, for South Carolina Coach Bill Foster. Not that he got the better of the Wildcat basketball team, but that Zam Fredrick got the better of the Davidson basketballers. Chalk one up for Davidson because they regained first place in the Southern Conference (7-2) as Furman nipped UT-C 96-90 in overtime. But chalk one up against Davidson because Zam Fredrick wasn’t wearing red and black last Saturday night.

That story started a few years ago when Dave Pritchett was still basketball coach here. He had just signed Chris Dodds, and from there went to South Carolina, where he privately signed Fredrick to a school letter of intent. Fredrick’s College Boards were by no means good enough, though, and he wasn't accepted, so he wound up at State U.

Meanwhile, in the continuing story of Superzam, the 1980-81 season put him on a team that started 3 freshmen “run-ons” (Foster doesn’t like calling them walk-ons) in what was a rebuilding year if there ever was one. So Fredrick took charge and decided it was time for some offensive output. Since then Fredrick has wreaked havoc, scoring over 27.3 ppg. When it came time to play Davidson, Zam once again took charge, as he pumped in 41 points going 14 of 22 (63.6%) from the field and 13 of 15 (86.7%) from the line for his best point production of the season.

While Zam was doing all he could to help the Gamecocks, the Wildcats didn’t do much to help themselves, with ten turnovers in the first seven minutes. Carolina meanwhile had gone up 14-6, and the game was theirs as far as they were concerned. Apparently, the wide-open pace of the game was not styled for Davidson, but Wildcat Coach Eddie Biedenbach didn’t think so before the game. “We felt we could run with them, but in retrospect we let Zam Fredrick have the ball too many times. Our defense emphasized stopping him, but the tempo was too fast to stop him.”

On the other side of the coin, the Gamecock defense put emphasis on shutting down scoring machines Todd Haynes and Rich DiBenedetto. They had just as much luck. Although Haynes was only 3 for 5 from the field in the first half, he rode rampant in the second half, going 8 for 9 and missing only one of five free throw attempts to finish with 26 points. That was good news for Davidson fans - Todd Haynes’ shot was back on target. To the senior star, who had been entangled in a scoring drought, having his shot back “felt good.” On the other side of the basket, Richie D. continued his super streak with 29 points, the best single-game output of a player this season. Over the last four games, DiBenedetto has put on a scoring clinic, averaging 12 rebounds, and 21.3 ppg, and shooting .667 from the floor and .808 from the line.

Although the transition game allowed for wide-open scoring from both teams, it also hurt Davidson in the rebounding department. Although Center Jamie Hall had another superlative performance down low by clearing the boards for a total of 13 caroms, the overall pace of the game found Davidson out-rebounded for the first time in seven games, 40-28. “Because of the fast pace, we didn’t go to the boards as well,” Biedenbach explained. “We can make our shots, but we didn’t get good movement on offense and they out-hustled us to the boards,” he continued. Biedenbach also pointed out that with 12 more rebounds and seven fewer turnovers, South Carolina had possession of the ball 19 more times than the Wildcats.

After a tough game last night in the Citadel’s McAlister Field House, the team has a week off. On February 4th, they get a chance to avenge their early season road loss to East Tennessee State, but Biedenbach has a few things for the team to work on. “Defensively, we need to pick up both team and individual defense. We’ve been slipping since the start of the season.” Defense will have to be especially stiff against East Tennessee, a team which, according to Biedenbach, “has the best athletes in our conference. They can beat anybody when they’re going right.” The Wildcats got into a track meet at East Tennessee, but things should be different at Johnston Gym for the Buccaneers, who haven’t been able to stick to game plans. After that key game, the ‘Cats spend 3 straight games on the road, including one at runner-up UT-C and another at defending champ Furman, so there’ll be slim pickin’s. With some luck and sharp shooting, the ‘Cats will retain their hold on first place in the Southern Conference.

Soccer team places three on all-conference squad

By STEVE SOUD
Staff Writer

After the soccer team finished a 9-8 season, its best record in recent memory, many Davidson fans hoped to see a few of the young team’s players’ faces on the All-Southern Conference roster. When the voting came in, three Wildcat kickers had posted good enough seasons to place themselves on the All-Conference squad. Freshman wing Chris Roberts had a torrid start (8 goals in 3 games) to boost hopes that he will prove to be one of the biggest scoring punches in Wildcat soccer history. Robertswas almost an unknown when he arrived, but he set the scoring pace early in the season and later overcame a mid-season drought to finish very well. He placed on the All-Conference second team. The defense of the Davidson team placed two other team members on the All-Conference team. Danny Robinson, junior fullback, led the defense and for the second straight year placed on the All-Conference second team. Robinson played consistent defense all year, and with another expected banner season for him in 1981, he will prove one of the best players Davidson has graduated. Goalie Mike Iordanou finished on the Honorable Mention All-Conference team. Iordanou, too, had a torrid start as he tallied several shutouts early on and came on strong after a mid-season slump. Iordanou placed behind two senior goaltenders, so he’ll be looking for first-team honors next year. With these three key returnees and some highly-touted recruits, Coach Charlie Slagle is looking forward to what could become Davidson’s best soccer season ever in 1981.

These moments of silence brought to you by WDSR, 580 AM, and the flu. But we're back and better than ever! R.I.P.

February conference meets in Charlotte
By JIM CROWE
Sports Editor

Davidson swimmers are for real this year and are proving their determination in competition. The Wildcats maintained their undefeated status as they stroked past Appalachian (67-46) and VMI (65-48) in simultaneous dual meets last weekend. The two conference victories bring the team’s overall record to 6-0. Team spirit is riding high and a relaxed but confident attitude pervades team workouts. Coach Pat Miller commented, “I wouldn’t say that we swam exceptionally good times last weekend, but we won when we had to. Now we’re working hard to get ready for our home meets.”

Junior Mike Schremmer, junior Cygig Finger, sophomore John Edwards, and freshman Bill Crone continued to excel in their respective events. Each is undefeated in individual competition this year. Schremmer won the 200-yard freestyle (1:47.69) and the 500-yard free (5:05.36) in both the Appalachian and the VMI meet. Finger beat all opponents in the 200-yard individual medley (2:07.51) and the 200-yard fly (2:06.34). Edwards was victorious in the 200 backstroke (2:10.92) and Crone won in the 1000 free (10:48.73). The squad did not win either the medley or freestyle relay events in either meet, though the freestyle relay team of Finger, Crone, Schremmer, and Warren Beck swam the meet’s best time (3:24.17) in an exhibition run.

Sophomore Frank Bright took firsts in both one-meter and three-meter diving against Appalachian with point scores of 205.3 and 214.30. VMI’s Roltsch took firsts in both diving events in that dual meet, with Bright placing second. Rick Williams won the 200 breaststroke against Appalachian (2:24.84) and Warren Beck took first in the 100 freestyle in the VMI meet.

Wildcat swimmers will take a break from competition this week. The next events will be home meets in Charlotte on February 6 and 7 against William & Mary, Furman, and Washington & Lee. Coach Miller said that there will be opportunities for students to get involved in the meets as timers and other workers. Information is available through the swimming office.

Grapplers place fourth at W & L tourney
By PAUL GRIFFITH
Staff Correspondent

The Davidson wrestling team, led by Dave Nichols, Scott Smith, and John Breidenstine, finished a strong fourth in the Washington & Lee Tournament held at Washington & Lee last Saturday. Coach Bob Estock said he was very pleased with many of the individual wrestlers, most notably Dave Nichols. Nichols, a senior, pinned his opponents from Washington & Lee and Hampden-Sydney to capture first place in the 190-pound weight class. He accomplished these two wins in a combined time of less than four minutes. Estock commented that Nichols’ performance was a “great surprise” and that he believes that Dave has made a great breakthrough in his wrestling. Last year, Nichols, who is also a team co-captain, suffered through a dismal 0-16 season.

Junior standout Scott Smith, wrestling at 134 pounds, won a decision and a pin before losing a decision to Banitto of Pfeiffer in the championship round. Smith has been consistently strong throughout the season. His record is currently 9-4. Another consistent performer, freshman John Breidenstine, racked up two pins before losing a major decision to Catawba’s Jay Greer. This performance earned him a second-place finish. Estock describes Breidenstine as “a real fighter who works hard all eight minutes.” The freshman’s record stands at 8-6-1 so far.

Other wrestlers who placed were Mills Antley (118 pounds) who finished third with one win and one loss, and Todd Kimsey (126 pounds) who finished fourth with 2 wins and 2 losses. Bob Kear finished the tournament with a 1-2 record but did not place. Davidson finished 10 points out of first place behind Catawba, Elon, and Pfeiffer. Coach Estock believes that the Wildcat wrestlers have improved steadily throughout the season. He emphasized that the team is young and that the experience gained so far is beginning to work for them. He commented, “We are working hard all eight minutes now, but we still have to stay off our backs.”

Last night Davidson faced Pfeiffer in Johnston Gym. Results were not available by press time. Saturday the team travels to Hampden-Sydney for a quad match against Lynchburg College, Colgate, and Hampden-Sydney.