THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

PCC has a Mouthful

Tonight, Patterson Court leaders will meet informally with Dean of Students Will Terry to discuss a number of issues affecting the court. The principle of feast-or-famine often applies to the agendas of organizations, and the court’s agenda is no exception. A number of issues, all with potentially large long-term effects on Davidson’s social life, face the court. The Patterson Court Council (PCC) has an opportunity this spring to become one of the most influential organizations on campus. Some of the major issues are:

SECURITY: How will Patterson Court as a whole react to the shooting incident at Hattie’s Night? Should court parties be closed to outsiders? Should there be more detailed arrangements with campus security officers to keep an eye on parties, or to be prepared to respond immediately in the case of an emergency? Violence, unlike lightning, can strike twice in the same place.

COMMONS: Instead of viewing the new Dining Commons as a threat to the eating house system, the court should see its potential as a resource. A college-run food service should be more receptive to the court’s needs than ARA Slater is. There could be a food staple buying co-op throughout the court supervised by the new food service director. This would entail substantial savings, always a welcome break for the eating houses, several of which have experienced or are experiencing financial difficulties. Certainly, the Commons will mean some competition for the court—but this can serve to increase the quality of both Commons and court.

RICHARDS AND BAILEY: Can Patterson Court afford to have another eating house? The formation of a new eating house in Richards or Bailey, coupled with the opening of the Commons, may jeopardize the financial stability of the rest of the court.

SELF-SELECTION: Potentially the most important issue is dissatisfaction with the self-selection system. The court will hear later this spring PiKA President Terry Wade’s proposal to change to a two-tier system of fraternity bids and computerized self-selection. In evaluating the proposal, the court must decide whether the new system would alleviate or heighten social pressures for freshmen.

In 1970 College President Samuel Spencer singlehandedly reorganized Patterson Court. Now the court, if it acts decisively, can shape its own future. We hope the PCC rises to the challenge.

Guns Kill People

Davidson’s indifference to current events fell away briefly on Monday afternoon as the news came out that President Ronald Reagan had been shot. The assassination attempt has a peculiar relevance to us. Only a few weeks ago, a Davidson student was also shot. For both Ronald Reagan and Joe Leman, the assailant was a stranger with trivial or deranged motives. And for both, the weapon was a handgun.

According to Time’s recent report on violent crime, an American is murdered every 24 minutes. One-half of those murders result from a handgun. A handgun is sold in this country every 13 seconds, so that if the guns were equally distributed one quarter of the population would own one. Clearly, the proliferation of handguns is directly linked to homicide rates. But the frequently proposed solution—gun control, in any one of its several forms—is problematic. In fact, the country’s most famous recent handgun victim, Ronald Reagan, had the backing of the 1.8 million member National Rifle Association (NRA) during his campaign. NRA columnist E.B. Mann wrote in last month’s Field and Stream, “We now have a pro-gun administration under a pro-gun President.”

The President will undoubtedly stick to his pro-gun stance despite his own brush with the handgun’s vicious side. His view, and that of most pro-gun sympathizers, is that Americans have a constitutional right, under the second amendment, to own firearms, and that they increasingly need the guns for self-defense. What this view ignores is that guns are fast and easy, ideal for use in a flash of momentary rage. Handguns are responsible for over one-half of the murders resulting from arguments between spouses or friends. Without a gun, Robbie Shackleford would have been merely a fist-swinging drunk; with it, he was a potential killer.

Gun control is no miracle cure. Even if handguns were entirely banned, it would be many years before there was a substantial drop in the number of guns in circulation. But Britain, which has a tough handgun law, has only 1.3 murders per 100,000 people annually, while we have 9.7. We cannot be indifferent to the violent potential of handguns. The problem is more than close to home.

—Elizabeth Kiss

SGA elections really take the fun out of everything

The Campus Forum

Fear of Fliers

To the Editor:

I would like to talk about a growing problem at Davidson—that of junk fliers and pamphlets which are slid under the doors of our dormitory rooms. This problem is similar to the mail headache that we all experience. (Does anyone fill out those Jim Martin questionnaires?) Students are well aware of events without fliers. There is The Davidsonian, the bulletin, and message boards in Chambers, in the Union, and outside the post office to publicize events. Davidson’sBest method of communication is the rumor, which can travel up to the speed of sound. Fliers are also putting the last sacred, unabashed place to exhibit our creativity—the stalls of the bathrooms. I must say that I prefer reading an original dirty joke to the minutes of the last SGA meeting. There are currently advertisements from Hobart Park posted around the toilets which say, “There’s a better place for your creativity than these walls.” I strongly disagree. If the pages of Hobart Park were pasted to the bathroom walls, many more people would read them.

The proliferation of junk fliers distributed in the dormitories is a serious problem which must be curtailed immediately. I offer these solutions:
1. Advise all students to stick a towel under their door.
2. Initiate a list of students who no longer wish to receive junk fliers, and require distributors not to give fliers to these students.
3. Encourage all students to move off campus.
4. Require those who distribute fliers to dispose of them.
5. Appoint a student to be the daily “town crier,” who would read aloud the news of the day in Belk quad.
6. Sell the copy machine.

I hope that the new SGA president can put an end to this problem. Based on my observation of the campaign of the two candidates, I have my doubts.

Rick Johnston '81

Lib is Fun

To the Editor:

This letter is addressed to all Davidson Co-eds in response to Mike Mason’s article on stereotypes last week. In that article, he mentioned that instead of complaining about not having a date, a girl should go ahead and ask the guy. Well, we weren’t pining for dates, but we did think it unfair that guys could go on double dates with a friend of theirs, and girls really didn’t have much chance to have fun with a friend of their choosing on a date. So... you guessed it—we asked guys on a date. Well, we had a blast! Both guys said they really enjoyed it—we had never been thanked so much for anything in our lives.

Now, we have to admit—we had never asked guys out before, and we wondered what their reaction would be. But we ran a private poll first, and almost every guy we talked to said that they wished girls would do the asking a lot more often—they’ve got to work their nerve up, too, you know. And don’t be scared off if a guy says no when you ask him—he’s probably got a reason and would be more than happy to do it another time. Our dates were eager to go—it’s very rare around Davidson for a guy to get asked out, and we feel sorry for them constantly having to be the aggressor. My date informed me beforehand that he was going to let me make all the first moves. I’ve got to confess—we couldn’t quite handle that. But we did have a good time, and we plan to do it again sometime.

However, we also feel that Mike’s article left something out. When you go on a date, don’t feel you have to go hog-wild with the entertaining. Everyone (well, almost everyone) gets short on funds. A movie at Chambers can be loads of fun. Peregrine House isn’t half-bad. Remember, it’s not what you do, it’s how you do it. If you go into a date with every intention of enjoying yourself, you almost certainly will. The guy will, too.

Beth Bryant ’84
Holly Spannuth '84

Dirty Dogs

To the Editor:

This letter is in response to the behavior exhibited by SAE members and pledges on March 29. I am by no means trying to criticize fraternities for having activities as part of the pledges’ initiation. I am, however, concerned with their total lack of respect for the campus, non-members, and dead animals.

After a very useless and unimaginative exertion of energy in the form of playing in the mud, the members and pledges roamed the campus. This naturally resulted in mud deposits all over the dorms. I don’t think it would have been too hard to clean up at the house to avoid subjecting the rest of the campus to this mess. But this was not all. Spectators of the SAE games were “volunteered” to participate. I believe it was at the least presumptuous to think that everyone enjoys playing in the mud. In fact, I know that several people were quite upset at having to join in with the SAEs.

Aside from their lack of respect, they also demonstrated how revolting they can be. While playing in the mud, they threw dead animals, including a dog, around. How can playing with dead animals truly add to the pleasure or the significance of the activity? I suggest that SAE members and pledges make amends. I cannot believe they want a reputation as creatures with no consciences. The fraternity was a respected one—but isn’t now.

Disgruntled and Muddy