THE DAVIDSONIAN
Founded 1914

Hattie’s Night: Keep it Irreverent but Safe

It is over. Joe Leman is recuperating in the hospital, F&M has been cleaned up, the police have written their reports, and Robbie Shackleford is far away from us once more, facing a frightening and uncertain future. The question now is, what do we do?

A student got shot on campus last week. We can regard the whole incident as a freak occurrence, something to be handled as quietly as possible, as the Administration has tried so hard to do, issuing no statements, calling no mass meetings. Or we can panic at this intrusion of the “outside world,” and seek to insulate ourselves from it. Neither response is a healthy one.

First, while the Hattie’s Night shooting certainly does not signal a rash of gunfights, we must recognize that Mecklenburg County and the town of Davidson are growing and growth entails an increased crime rate. Other colleges deal with assaults, robberies, and rapes on a daily basis. Hopefully, we will never get to that. But already this year there have been robberies in Chambers and Belk as well as a higher rate of vandalism. Davidson’s idyllic isolation is not inviolable.

But also, that isolation may not be a completely unmixed blessing. Davidson is often characterized as an ivory tower and a snob school. When we see in Robbie Shackleford the “Outside World—Wicked and to be Avoided” we are practicing self-imposed parochialism. Before we pat ourselves on the back for being a moral elite, let us examine how we treat townies in the snack bar and the Buttery and Beanery, how we reconcile our $7000-a-year education with the drafty shacks resting on cement blocks just across the tracks. There is a dangerous complacency in the “let’s avoid the big bad world as long as possible” mentality. We cannot, and should not, avoid the world. But we must deal with it intelligently.

It is time to assess the institution of Hattie’s Night to determine what risks it entails and whether it is worth those risks. Hattie’s Night is a slam-bang, blow-off-some-steam affair, a wild landmark in the relatively sedate Davidson party scene. It can be fun. But hundreds of people packed into one eating house is not fun. It is dangerous. Crowding excites tension. By amplifying noise and making conversation impossible, it makes getting drunk the only thing to do. Most students admit they find Hattie’s Night too loud and stifling. The party’s setting has become dangerous; it is time to change it.

Nor is the party fun for the non-drinker. Why not offer alternatives to beer? Non-alcoholic beverages and snacks would give the party greater variety. With such a large crowd, there should be more careful arrangements with campus security and town police so that an officer with clear jurisdiction is near enough to respond quickly in an emergency. And there should be a group of students in charge, present at all times and not drinking. We were extraordinarily lucky that several emergency medical technicians were on the spot and alert when Joe was shot.

Everyone has heard someone say, “It’s going to take a death to make them put up a traffic light at the intersection.” We were fortunate that our early warning was not fatal. At an institution with so many reverent traditions, it’s refreshing to have a tradition as irreverent as Hattie’s Night. So let’s not scrap it. But let’s not avoid last week’s lesson, either. We hope F&M and the other Patterson Court houses will decide on changes in their party formats to ensure that tragedy does not recur.

—Elizabeth Kiss

LET’S PUT LOCKS ON THE BASKETBALL OFFICES. NOW YOU WANT ME TO CHANGE 'EM IN BELK DORM! Y’ALL DIDN’T FIRE THE FRESHMEN, DID YA?

The Campus Forum

Hattie’s Night Fan Mail

To the Editor:

Unfortunately, as we all know, the annual Hattie’s Night celebration ended in a tragic incident this year. We sincerely regret that this happened. We would like to thank everyone for their...Cooperation in clearing the area, so that the situation could be handled efficiently by emergency personnel. We hope to be part of a community decision to take whatever steps are necessary to tighten security at campus events to avoid incidents like this in the future. Thank you again for your cooperation.

To the Editor:

On behalf of the tennis team, I would like to express my appreciation for the tremendous support from Davidson students, faculty, and friends during last week’s tennis matches. Our current 6-0 record can be attributed not only to the fine play of the team, but also to the overwhelming response we have received from the Davidson community. We have 27 scheduled matches at Davidson, so the home crowd will play a larger role than ever before. So far, the number of people coming out for the matches is more than I have ever seen in my years at Davidson. I just hope that our team can live up to the support we are receiving.

The Officers of Fannie & Mabel’s
Joni Seehorn '82
Lisa Buckley ’82
Scott Haight ‘83
Rick Johnston ‘81
Melissa McKeithen '83
Pam Rew ‘83
Dave Riopel ’82

To the Editor:

We are all concerned over the incident at Fannie and Mable’s fated “Hattie’s Night”—concerned not only that such a thing has happened, but also that it could re-occur. We must not, however, allow ourselves to assume that the shooting occurred as a consequence of “the bash,” although inebriation clearly played a role. Some students feel that “Hattie’s Night” and similar festivities should be abolished as a result of Mr. Shackleford’s irrational act. I personally express parallel opinions, but I do realize that Shackleford and his associates are “townies,” who can easily be excluded from future campus activities. Restricting campus activities to campus residents is, I think, a much better approach than eliminating said activities.

James Moore '84

To the Editor:

I am simply outraged. Not only that, I am disowned. Last week, as I was reading the Davidsonian, my horrified glance fell on the headline “Student comprehensive fee to go up $7075 next year.” This is precisely a 114% increase from this year’s fee. I mean, this is worse than Maggie Thatcher. It’s even worse than the Politburo’s sausage price hike in Poland. This is communist. My horror increased when my parents called up four days later. They, too, had read the story. “Kid,” my Father said, “we saw the tuition hike, and your Ma and I decided that you’re just not worth the investment. We'd rather buy an Audi.” So I’m packing my bags and heading for computer school. Please protest this outrage in my stead.

Broke Bloke

The Davidsonian welcomes letters. All letters must be signed. We will withhold names on request. Please bring letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the College Union or send them to our mailing address.

The Davidsonian is published weekly during the academic year (except holidays and examination periods) by the students of Davidson College. Mailing address: Box 218, Davidson, N.C. 28036. Phone: (704) 892-2000, ext. 148 (office) and ext. 149 (print shop). Subscription rate: $8 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Second class postage paid at Davidson, N.C.

Editors:
Donald Caldwell
Glenn Kellum
John Krotchko
James Barrat
Danny Armistead
Jim Crowe
Ivy Goodman

Production Manager:
Elizabeth Kiss

Assistant Editors:
John Siman
Tim Whalen
Frances Palmer

Graphics Assistants:
Womble Barringer
Fred Broadwell
May Moone
Scott Powers
Karen Sandlin
Laurie Soper
Carter Vest

Production Associates:
Lisa Buckley
Jeff Dempsey
David Prettyman
Bernadette Walter

Staff Artists:
Bill Appleton
Ed Daugherty
Jim Rumley

Darkroom Technicians:
Sally Neal
Mark Sheffield

Photographers:
David Banks
Mark Barrett
Jeff Mann
David McCurry

Advertising Manager:
Warren Lackey

Circulation Manager:
Scott Myers

Assistant Editor:
Anne Goodwin

Assistant Editors:
Beth Findlay
James Moore