IMAC with Doughboys and the Slimshafts

with a few Christmas gifts of our own. The following is exactly what we here at SS. & DB think
various members of the Davidson Community deserve:

Sue Hilton will receive Clark Carter for Christmas, thus establishing herself as one half of the most intense phi gor
on campus. She also receives an autographed copy of Matthew Josephson's "Bourgeois Bohemian," plus the Jack Lalane Guide to a
Slimmer and More Youthful Figure.

J.C. Faulkner and Rob Moore — This group of little big men will receive a copy of Cliff Tribus’ new
pamphlet “How to Read Six Feet Painlessly” and on impending success will be awarded a four-year scholarship to Davidson’s summer
basketball camp.

Marc Webster, Nick Viest, Ed Goode, & Hill Stockton — This motley crew deserves special saliva-retarding clothing to protect themselves
when conversing with Stokes.

Yancey Carter — Yancey will receive authentic whiskers for Christmas and every Christmas to follow.

Ed Farrell, with the departure of Ray, is now full of the place. Gano canoe, it would be appropriate to
come forth.

Sinclair deserves a new “trump card” to initiate on fourth and long.

Fourth Watts — This hall deserves an extra fire hydrant in order to combat the “elements” of this year’s tremendous
fire hazard.

Buck Bradberry — Buck receives a compass, map, flashlight, and about three weeks in which to find his way to
Chambers.

To All Members of the Davidson Community — Four pages in the Davidsonian editorial section to express exactly how little
they care about the Phi Society.

Philip Gordon — the first annual Mahatma Gandhi Scholarship for the student who best represents the passive, nonviolent nature of
Gandhi. He will team this winter with John McColl and Ellis Tinskey in Davidson’s drive to recapture the James D.
McCallister award for sportsmanship in the Southern Conference.

Paul “Geech” Baynard and Bill Satterwhite — Both of these geriatric cases deserve special government exemptions to allow them to
collect Social Security at Davidson, take part in a one-week body-building course led by Schwarzenegger look-alike, Gordon Turnbull.

Kathy Kooken, Jane Alexanian, Ann Rollins, and Nancy Cloyed — All four of these Davidson coeds receive Mattel’s New Home
Version of the SAE House so as not to miss a thing over Christmas break. The game comes complete with
an SAE social calendar through 1985.

Stuart Edmunds will receive a one-year supply of dentures and a padded cell.

Ed White receives full control of the Good Humor Franchise and will receive full control unless held in bondage by
wife Barb.

Steve Shelby hopes to receive this holiday season some tolerance for any or all non-KA human beings.

Terry “Grunt” Greiner, C.K. Nichols, and Chuck Price will be blessed with multiple pairs of black leather pants, leather jackets,
and leather jock straps plus an all-expense-paid trip to London, England where they will choose to join either the punks
or the rockers.

Ellen Rowe is asking for the same thing this year as in the years before, and with any luck, she
will receive either a pair of six-inch orthopedic clogs or a multipurpose stretching rack.

Bill Bolding, facing the demands of an overbearing student body, is asking for either a new lottery system for this
spring or a new face and identity.

Eric Sanner will receive an eight-week uninterrupted speech course at the Zimmerman School of Speech. Text will include a study
by Rives Balcom on “How Not To Speak In Public.”

The SPEs will receive one pledge.

John Norwood will receive a meaningful relationship after many years of futile search through the state of Florida and the
dorm of Richardson.

The Davidson Wildcats will receive a small meaningless prayer along with a copy of the December 2, 1968 Sports Illustrated.

Grover Meetze will be awarded a federal grant for the landscaping and development of a cross-country brick bike path on
the sole condition that Grover supply all building materials.

Bobby Hussey will receive a selection of Boone’s Farm Bordeaux to be sampled by himself and the team prior to
each game.

Next week: Doughboys return with a report on the Wildcat basketball team’s “uncontested” position in the conference with statistical analysis
under the supervision of D' Kazee. The results of the public opinion poll will be suspended until after the Davidson
vs. North Mecklenburg County game. D' Kazee and staff are optimistic.

DAVIDSONIAN / Friday 11 December 1981
